US	52877960	R2Q24XHQ3CGJ98	006000438X	759689844	The Death of Vishnu: A Novel	Books	4	8	9	N	N	Mythology  and human nature	\\"The Death of Vishnu\\" is the first of what the author plans to be a trilogy, an eulogy to the Hindu's trinity (Trimurti): Vishnu (guardian of the universe), Brahma (the creator), and Shiva (the destroyer).  This novel is immersed in India's colors, smells, tastes, and above all Hindu mythology.  The setting is a degraded three-floor apartment building in Bombay.  On the first floor we have two families, the Asranis and the Pathaks whose respective females are constantly in attrition over petty issues; on the second floor we have the Muslim Jalal family, a submissive religous wife and a husband struggling to reach spiritual enlightment, and on the third level we have the lonely Mr. Vinod Taneja, a widower whose piety will allow him to transcend reality.  Linking these characters is the dying figure of Vishnu, stretched on the landing, sometimes brought alive by past memories and sometimes represented as a living manifestation (avatar) of the god Vishnu.  He represents the divine and human nature put together.  As an extra flavor, the impact of India's film industry is present in all characters, as if the atuhor is wishing to remind the reader that fantasy, imagination, wishful thinking, all act as a sedative in coping with life's harsh reality.<BR>The parable is clear, the different apartment floors trace the path of a human soul in its struggle to reach a higher stage through several reincarnations, starting with the selfish material oriented mind, moving into a phase of intellectual dilemmas where science and faith are in opposition, to a final stage of transcendence.<BR>\\"The Death of Vishnu\\" is a rich kaleidoscope of India's extravagant mythology, of the complexity of human nature, of a cultural world most often unknown by westerners.	2003-02-27
US	52877960	R1JK5XY7IPEYLQ	0374503486	432602964	Memoirs of Hadrian	Books	5	97	105	N	N	Work of profound scholarship	Seldom do we find a historical novel written with both so much scholarship and passion.  Marguerite Yourcenar not only incarnates the soul and spirit of Emperor Hadrian but of his time as well (second century A.D.).  Narrated in the first person, it is the written meditations of a sick man who holds audience with his memories.  Suffering from gout, knowing that his remaining days are few, Hadrian leaves a testimony of his life, his accomplishments, his philosophical outlook on life, and some pieces of good advise for his successor Marcus Aurelius.  Hadrian was an architect of peace as well as buildings, he felt responsible for sustaining and increasing the beauty of his world, and his duties forced him \\"to serve as the incarnation of Providence,\\" to the point that he felt he was indeed divine.  A lover of the arts, of Greek culture, of the occult, he was above all a pragmatic man whose motto was \\"Strength, Justice and the Muses.\\"  For him life was \\"like a horse to whose motions one yields, but only after having trained the animal to the utmost.\\"  His positive attitude in every life experience allows him to look back as a man fully satisfied... except in matters of love!  His passion and tragic death of young Antinous reminds him that \\"love's play is the only one which threatens to unsettle the soul.\\"<br />It is history and story written with superb craftsmanship, the end result of painful and laborious 15 years of work and research.  It is a psychlogically penetrating portrait of an outstanding figure in history; a man who was able to capture the spirit of his time, which in turn has been recaptured by the genious of Marguerite Yourcenar.	2003-02-15
US	52877960	R3Q4Y5N2J022WX	1573228281	454004836	A Gesture Life: A Novel	Books	5	14	14	N	N	The price of conformity	\\"A Gesture Life\\" is a novel that reads more like a memoir, a sad, melancholic first person narrative by the main characer (Dr. Hata).  In a superb elegant style, beautifully written, constrained and at the same time powerfully moving, the author deals with the problem of being an outsider and of conformity in exchange for respectfulness.  Dr. Hata is an uneasy psyche, a restrained individual who behind a faade of a well-established and respected person hides a complex and dramatic life struggle.  Since his childhood he has felt as an outsider, first as a native Korean who is adopted by a Japanese couple, and then as an immigrant in the U.S.A.  With psychological wounds he feels unable to express or integrate the emotion of love into his life, using the shield of politness, of integrity, living his life as a sequence of appropriate \\"gestures.\\"  By acting as such, he describes his life as \\"something exemplary to the sensation of near perfect lightness of being in a place and not being there... the trouble of finding a remedy but not quite a cure... such is the cast of my belonging, molding to whatever is at hand.\\"<BR>The novel has a double time frame setting, one based on past memories of Hatas experience as a paramedic in the Japanese army, and the second focused on the present.  Hatas relationship with the opposite sex has failed (with the comfort women \\"K,\\" with Mary Burns, and with his own daughter) and when he reviews the outcome he finds guilt and regret, whole-heartedly admitting \\"there are those who would gladly give up all they have gained in the world to have relented just once when it mattered.\\"<BR>How much can an individual sacrifice his own-self, how high a price must he pay in order to adapt to his surroundings and conform to what is expected from him?  How much does evasion of reality affect a relationship?  Because of Hata's attitude he has remained detached, never within the full embrace of life, and having to face painful consequences.<BR>This novel is a wonderful psychological drama, artistically performed, poignant, shocking at times, but above all a moving tale of a human condition.	2003-01-31
US	52877960	R2IBX2LFG44FNR	0743225082	250905833	Man and Boy: A Novel	Books	3	4	4	N	N	Family values	A man has everything in life he might wish for:  an excellent job, a beautiful wife, and a nice boy.  So it seems, until an act of infidelity brings his world into crumbles.  Unemployed, left alone with his four-year boy, this man has to face a new reality and new responsibilities.  Greatly a reflection of his life experience, Tony Parsons deals with a a very simple issue many contemporary couples have to face.  Many people take for granted what love and parenthood is all about, the joys are evident and easily savored, but most often the inherent hardships and sacrificies are ignored.  When confronted with the real facts, the main character (Harry Silver) has to reshape not only his daily routine but his family values and life perspectives as well.  This confrontation will eventually strenghten his self-respect, character, and family relationships.  An easy narrative, with sentimental touches, and a fine reading to relax.	2003-01-28
US	52877960	R2QV13VZ3L1WOL	0375703861	363806782	White Teeth: A Novel	Books	3	3	3	N	N	A promising writer	\\"White Teeth\\" is an outstanding performance for someone who started on this book at the age of 21, on her last year at college. More than a million copies sold is a proof of its success. Her style is exuberant, witty, with clever and satirical overtones. Although Zadie Smith affirms that a book is a \\"suitable place for ethical enquiry,\\" and she certainly touches on a number of issues (technology, science, religion), she never really takes a firm stand or attempts to elaborate on any of them in a profound way so that it would stand out as the cornerstone of her novel. What does the teeth metaphor really stands for? Her characters are funny, entirely familiar, and sometimes overfetched. They are not heroes, but rather comic stereotyped players in a multicultural environment. The main players are individuals in desperate search of cultural identity, of roots, of auto-affirmation. In the process they are driven to radical outlooks, whether in religion, militarism, science, or social activism.<BR>The structure of the novel as a whole lacks a pivotal string to hold all the pieces together, and the ending is poorly crafted. There is no doubt Zadie Smith is a gifted writer, whose talent nevertheless requires further polishing and maturity. It is a set of teeth, albeit beautiful, in need of braces!	2003-01-24
US	52877960	R3IYK28NGF7S34	0385477058	790441627	Hyperspace: A Scientific Odyssey Through Parallel Universes, Time Warps, and the 10th Dimension	Books	5	15	17	N	N	In search of the Holy Grail	This is certainly a most interesting presentation of the hyperspace theory (also known as the theory of everything)not only in view of its cosmological implications but also because of the new horizons it opens for mankind.  Basically, the theory  states that several dimensions exist beyond the commonly accepted four of space and time.  In fact, it predicts the precise number of dimensions as being ten (the usual 3 for space, one of time, and six more spatial dimensions).  Theoretically, it unites all known physical phenomena (electromagnetic, strong and weak nuclear force, and gravitational force) in a simple framework, simplifies the laws of nature, and may provide a means to tunnel through space and time.<BR>Michio Kaku rightly says that \\"we are like carps swimming contentedly in the pond, confident that our universe consists of only those things we can see or touch, of the familiar and the visible, refusing to admit that parallel universes or dimensions can exist next to ours, just beyond our grasp.\\"  We are limited by a three-dimensional brain, and the inability to \\"see\\" the fourth dimension is like that of a blind man attempting to conceive the concept of color.  Mathematically we can probe into N dimensions, and although the bending of our universe is an \\"unseen\\" dimension it has been experimentally measured.<BR>The further on we move the more theoretical physics resembles a science fiction tale:  wormholes, parallel universe, time travel... Another problem is how are we going to scientifically test those hypothesis: the higher dimensions are too small to be experimentally seen and we need new-sophisticated technologies to test them.  If the theory is proved correct, then when will we be able to harness the power of the hyperspace theory?  We are reminded of what physicist V. Weisskopf once said:  \\"It's like the peasant who asks the engineer how the steam engine works.  The engineer explains exactly where the steam goes and how it moves through the engine andso on.  And then the peasant says:  \\"Yes, I understand all that, but where is the horse?\\"<BR>The author has an almost mythical interpretation of hyperspace theory, addressing the issue as a theory of Creation, whereby only at the instant of the Big Bang do we see the full power of the theory coming into play; our cosmos was a perfect ten-dimensional universe but it eventually \\"cracked\\" in two, creating a four and a six-dimensional universe.  Then he hums an apocalyptic tune:  the uranium barrier, ecological collapse, new ice age, astronomical close encounters, nemesis extinction factor, death of the sun and death of the galaxy.  But there is salvation!  \\"Man is doomed... but there is one possible escape.  If all of space-time is collapsing into a fiery cataclysm, then the only way to escape the Big Crunch is to leave space and time -- escape via hyperspace!<BR>For those well versed in physics and mathematics, this book might be viewed as another good \\"pop\\" science.  But why should priests chant incantations in Latin, that hardly anyone understands, and physicists chant equations that even fewer understand?  Michio Kaku does an excellent job in bringing theoretical physics closer to the layman, his analysis is clear and comprehensive, and he makes use of excellent analogies.	2003-01-16
US	52877960	R2QM4OF62KGF42	0375701710	672142264	The New Life	Books	4	21	24	N	N	In search of a new identity	When a country confronts radical changes, its cultural manifestations will equally reflect the confusion brought about by these same changes.  \\"The New Life\\" responds to the dramatic turn around in Turkey's history, its breaking away from traditional culture and codes and the introduction of Western values.<BR>In a narrative which equally breaks away from conventional mode (more to the likes of Borges's labyrinth), in an ultra post-modernistic style, where characters disappear and reappeared with changed identities, in a dreamlike surrealistic setting, where plot is irrelevant, Ohram Pamuk evokes the contemporary dilemma of Turkey and its national identity.<BR>The characters Nahit/Osman/Mehmet/Dr. Fine/Rifki all personify the contradictory facets of nowadays Turkey.  Whether they represent fundamentalism, militarism, or westernization, Pamuk satirizes all.  Osman finds himself at this cultural crossroad and guided by a book and love, embarks himself in a \\"Kafkian\\" journey to find the real meaning of life and what its future might hold in surprise.  He painfully realizes that his world is contingent upon misinterpreted signals and indiscriminate habits while real life is located somewhere in another dimension.  Is he in fact seeking Turkey's future?  He desperately wants to be at the threshold of life and when he is able to reach this stage of transiton he discovers he is both in peace and waging a war, restless and somnolent, in eternity and also in time, sleepwalking and awake.<BR>\\"I hear the call of silence, the like of which I had never before experienced.  Ah, to be neither here nor there! To become someone else and roam the peaceful garden that exists between the two worlds!\\"  It all boils down to an allegorical interpretation of Turkey's present.  How will Turkey's \\"New Life\\" be like?  \\"What I am searching for among shards of glass, drops of blood, and the dead is the threshold of another kind of life.\\"<BR>Pamuk sees present Turkish culture manifesting a vengeful rage against foreign cultures that annihilates the past (fundamentalism), its allegoraical battle against printed matter, against the book of \\"The New Life.\\"  He uses beautifully creative, imaginary concepts such as the clock in which instead of the usual cuckoo bird, two other figures have been employed, a tiny imam who appears on the lower balcony at the proper time for prayer to announce three times that \\"God is Great!\\" and a minute toy gentleman wearing a tie but no mustache who showed up in the upper balcony on the hour, asserting that \\"Happiness is being a Turk, a Turk, a Turk.\\"  It is Westernization-versus-Islamization!  Although it is sad to realize \\"we will never be ourselves again, mature assessment may save us from disaster.  Civilizations come and civilizations go.  Not only do we refuse to drink wine, we will not succumb to drinking Coca-Cola.\\"  Turkey was in a state of bliss, of innocence, of true happiness, but with the \\"Great Conspiracy\\" it has lost its sense of time, life and collective memory.<BR>They journey taken by Osman and Jana (through the roads of Turkey, in search of happiness, love, and new life), parallels Turkey's search for a new identity.  Turkey needs to listen to his own voice, to \\"the whispers in the depths of the night,\\" and eventually it will acquire a voice of its own, it will find its \\"New Life.\\"  Nothing remains the same forever, and although Osmar today is a foolish here trying to discover the meaning of life in a land suffering from anmesia, there is hope... \\"someday, someday perhaps a thousand years from now, we will avenge ourselves, we wil bring an end to this conspiracy by taking them (the West) out of our soup, our chewing gum, our souls.\\"<BR>When it was first published in 1994, \\"The New Life\\" made a big success in Turkey, it sold 200,000 copies, a record in Turkish publishing.  Because of its metaphysical structure it is not an easy reading, it demands full alertness and the ability to penetrate in a realm of dreams, senseless time, and allegorical abundance.  Knowing Turkey and its history makes the journey easier, and it is definitely a must for those willing to understand present Turkey.  Beyond doubt, another great achievement for Ohram Pamuk.	2003-01-13
US	52877960	R3E1AL630UFQYW	0385499094	875297371	Akhenaten: Dweller in Truth A Novel	Books	3	17	22	N	N	Akhenaten merits more than this...	This book belongs to the first stage of Naguib Mahfuz literary production, a series of 40 novels dedicated to the history of Pharaohnic Egypt.  Later on, he was deflected into a new type of novel, one that addressed social/political issues, the raw reality of his native country, and it is within this phase that we have him at his best (\\"Cairo Trilogy\\", \\"Children of the Alley\\", \\"Miramar\\", amongst others).  Readers who are familiar with Mahfuz's outstanding novels might be disappointed with this one.<BR>Akhenaten (formerly Amenhotep IV) was one of the most enigmatic pharaohs, one over which there is much historical, archeological, and mystical debate.  Details about his life were purposely erased from Egyptian history as he was usually referred to as \\"heretic\\" or \\"rebel.\\"  Little can be said and affirm about him, and a good deal of supposition is what accounts for his life, deeds, and character.  Was he in fact a victim of Marfan's Syndrome, which accounted for his peculiar physique?  Was he a product of miscegenation and therefore had Negroid features? Was \\"Tut\\" his brother, son, or son-in-law?  Over some aspects, historians seem to have reached an agreement:  he was a visionary who implemented a monotheistic religion, had a new city built as the main center of his empire (Amarna), changed the traditional structure of the Egyptian society, and reversed Egyptian's foreign policy.  In this revolutionary undertaking his main victim was the priesthood upon which power and tradition was based.  The result was a general disruption of traditional patterns of religion, resistance from those representing the previous status quo, and the inevitable failure and death of the new system (including the Pharaoh himself).<BR>The main character in the book, young Meriamum sets to understand the truth about Akhenaten by means of several interviews with a number of the Pharaoh's contemporaries (friends, his wife Nefertiti, the high priest, soldiers, etc).  He is a passive listener, makes no attempt to ellaborate on the information given, and what is being told turns out to be extremely contradictory and quite repetitive.<BR>By dealing with a historical character over which there is little factual evidence, Naguib Mahfouz could indulge in the realm of fiction, but by doing so he is further undermining whatever truth might be said about Akhenaten.  There is no reference to the social/political/religious reality of Ancient Egypt.  As a work of fiction it needs more structure, as a historical fiction it swims in shallow waters.<BR>Leaving the fictional element aside, a much broader, academic and meaningful account of Akhenaten and his time is to be found in \\"Akhenaten: King of Egypt\\" by Cyril Aldred.	2003-01-09
US	52877960	R1GMCBUQV3RFMM	0671732463	763906632	Journey to Ixtlan: The Lessons of Don Juan	Books	3	6	17	N	N	Shamanism	\\"Journey to Ixtlan\\" is a long and unbalanced (sometimes repetitive) dialogue between Don Juan, the sorcerer, and his apprentice.  Unbalanced to the extent that the apprentice is humble, naive, easily taken by Don Juan's views, unable to effectively counter-argue the teachings of the sorcerer.  The reader is taken into a long and fantastic journey through the desert, where he is slowly introduced into the teachings of Don Juan.  For him, the world of everyday life is not real as we believe it to be.  Reality if merely one of various descriptions, therefore we have to learn how to \\"see\\" as opposed to merely \\"looking,\\" and \\"stopping the world\\" is the first step to \\"seeing.\\"  Once the apprenticeship is finished we have learned a new description of the world and are able to elicit a new perception, one has gained \\"membership.\\"  We must break the dogmatic certainty, which we all share, that the validity of our perceptions is not to be questioned.  In the long process we must learn to erase personal history, remodel most of our behavior, self-importance must be dropped, we must take full responsibility for our actions, and accept death as the only wise adviser.  You become a hunter once you learn to separate the images and see two of everything, you become accessible to power and learn how to tackle your dreams.  You become a man of knowledge because you have unravelled the secrets of personal power. A man is only the sum of his personal power, and that sum determines how he lives and how he dies.<BR>Carlos Castaneda, an active member of the New Age Movement, had millions of followers around the world.  His writings are supposedly based on personal experience, on his studies on the effects of certain medicinal plants and the teachings of a shaman who used hallucinogens to initiate his students into an occult world.  His personal life has remained a mystery, as much as his cult, and his literary success is not actually based on quality but rather on being appealing to humanthrist for myth, magic, self-improvement, and the imaginary.	2003-01-07
US	52877960	R26XAT8CJP8XBJ	0385503954	977000479	Atonement: A Novel	Books	4	5	5	N	N	When fantasy stains reality...	Like a medieval triptych McEwan portrays a three-phased story, each one independent in its own and at the same time interlinked by the initial drama and the consequences thereafter.  On the first setting the year is 1935, an upper-middle-class family, with descriptive scenery and well elaborated characters.  The full responsibility for a misconstrued judgment by Briony (the young teenager) will bring dreadful effects on the lives of her sister (Ceci) and her loved one (Robbie).  The second panel describes with acute sensitivity and sometimes morbid overtones the retreat to Dunkirk, a crude historical reality over which the author did a considerable research.  On the last phase the setting is London during the war, concentrating on the efforts by the medical staff and assistants to cope with the wounded.  As an aftermath, the author brings the main character all the way to 1999, in a grand and clever finale.<BR>&quot;Atonement&quot; compounds fiction with historical facts, at the same time addressing the intricacies between the creator and his creation.  The writer by means of her imagination and fantasy is to be held fully responsible; she is playing the role of God and as such there is no atonement for whatever misconceptions she has made.  Briony is victim of her imagination as much as &quot;Don Quijote&quot; is overtaken by illusions, and although both are moved by a sense of justice, the later is an idealist while Briony has simply indulged in literary models.  Contrary to the Marabar Cave incident in &quot;Passage to India&quot; (Morgan Forster), there is no retraction and the accused is condemned.  An interesting issue to be raised is to what extent Robbie's proletarian status weights in the final verdict? And whilst Briony has to deal with her guilt throughout her lifetime, is the real perpetrator conscious free?<BR>&quot;Atonement&quot; has the merit of having a refined narrative, a vivid and well-documented historical setting, a subtle touch of drama, altogether contributing to an enjoyable reading.	2003-01-07
US	52877960	R16NKQ1ZX0KKIU	0810111616	311291983	Kaddish for a Child Not Born	Books	5	20	20	N	N	Kaddish for humankind	A poignant, dramatic stream of self-counsciousness narrative of a middle age man, who in view of his Spartan upbringing and experience as a concentration camp survivor refuses to beget a child in a world where atrocities such as Auschwitz can take place.  Although claimed by the author not to be autobiographical, there are instances where it becomes impossible to draw the line between fiction and reality.  His Kaddish (Jewish prayer for the dead)is being said not only in the name of his unborn child but also as a prayer for all of those who were not able to survive.<BR>The nameless character feels disconnected to reality, life, and everyone, his obsessive writing is his only tool to deal with his bitterness, and in a compulsive burst of introspection he develops a monologue rich in philosophical and political connotations.  Auschwitz for him is not a problem between the Jews and the Germans, but a catastrophe in European history, the ultimate truth in human degradation.  In the true spirit of Kaddish, he accepts his fate and divine will as as man who cannnot decide against his destiny.<br />    The Rebbe would say:  \\"God creates things he does not desire,<BR>                           things about which we scream, some-<BR>                           times in horror, sometimes in         <BR>                           indignant outrage, Why did you do <BR>                           this? How could you? and all we<BR>                           receive is a silent tear from heaven,<BR>                           yet even the things He does not desire<BR>                           they do have a purpose.\\"<br />The narrator struggles to accept the consequences of his Jewish identity, as an individual being punished for a crime he did not commit.  He is conscious of the prejudice that existed, exists, and will forever exist against the Jews, and the fear of genocide is ever present.  Life is an illusion in which we are not able to become conscious of our own consciousness,probably because our individual consciousness belongs to a whole (maybe God).<BR>Because the narrator is victim of a disease called Auschwitz (for which there is no cure), he is not able to cut himself from the past; consequently, he feels he is unable to be happy or make anyone happy, his marriage ends in failure, and he is destined to dig his grave with a pen.  His creative power feeds itself through solitude, suffering and pain.  The result is a slim book with an enormous intensity of despair, and a syntax that represents a reading challenge.  By all means... a work of art!	2002-12-10
US	52877960	R8M0W5MYIJGP3	0062502182	472619578	The Alchemist: A Fable About Following Your Dream	Books	3	24	30	N	N	The illusion of dream fulfillment	Paulo Coelho has become one of the most popular writers worldwide.   He has written 9 novels and &quot;The Alquemist&quot; is his second title.  Written in a spur of inspiration which lasted two weeks, this novel alone has sold over 46,000,000 copies an has been translated into 55 languages.  Because of its optimistic message, its simplicity of meaning and language it is easily read, quite popular amongst youngsters, all together accounting for its status as a bestseller.<BR>It is a fable in which a young boy by the name of Santiago is called to go in search of his &quot;Personal Myth.&quot;  It is a journey of exploration, of self-discovery, narrated in a language of symbolism, dreams, and mysticism.  The message Paulo Coelho wishes to share with his readers is that everyone should be able to interpret the events encountered throughout our existence and be able to follow them in search of the ultimate fulfillment and meaning in life.  We should not be afraid to follow our destiny, our dreams, everything is possible as long as we really want it to happen, and what is to be avoided is to sacrifice fulfillment to conformity.  The treasure is not what is to be found at the end of the journey, but the journey itself and the wisdom acquired in the process.<br />   &quot;Tell your heart that the fear of suffering is worse<BR>   than the suffering itself,&quot; the alchemist replies.<BR>   &quot;And that no heart has ever suffered when it goes<BR>   in search of its dreams, because every second of the<BR>   search is a second´s encounter with God and with<BR>   eternity.&quot;<br />Paulo Coelho himself is a non-conformit, a writer who himself went on a long search for his personal fulfillment.  His success relies much in telling people what they want to hear (an illusive reality), using a language that does not speak to the brain but rather to the heart.  His writings follow similar lines as other writers such as Livingston, Carlos Castaneda, Ben Okri, John Redfield, Deepak Choppra, Rodney Ballenden, Merrick Rosenberg, all of them in search of a way of life which will enrich the meaning of existence and bring a message of hope.	2002-11-28
US	52877960	R19Y392Y85FDPG	0415278465	530187133	The Poverty of Historicism (Routledge Classics) (Volume 88)	Books	5	44	49	N	N	The fallacy of Utopian Engineering	Sir Popper is considered one of the most important thinkers in the area of philosophy of science.  \\"The Poverty of Historicism\\" despite its complexity, carries a fundamental simple message:  prediction over the course of history (its social and economic implications) is nothing more than a fantasy, an illusion.  And this assertion is based on the principle that the events/persons responsible for changes are themselves affected by these same changes.  It is Heisenberg's principle of uncertainty applied to social sciences!<BR>Historicism is the theory that history develops itself according to pre-determined, inexorable laws with a fixed objective or end.  Fascism and communism were laid upon these presuppositions, and the course fo history has proven the fallacy (therefore poverty) of such assumptions.  The attempt to have a holistic approach by eliminating individual differences through \\"brain washing\\" is incompatible with critical thought, and although it will bring about a concentration of power it will also cause an erosion of knowledge.  The Poverty of Historicism becomes a poverty of imagination, of the ability of critical judgement and analysis.  Historicism, according to Karl Popper preposterously assumes the postion of having discovered the problem of \\"change,\\" but revolutions are not unique to our modern era and the metaphysical speculation of what constitutes \\"change\\" has been addressed since the time of Heraclitus.<BR>The goal of applying scientific methods with the same accuracy and predictability as those in theoretical physics is bound to end in failure when it concerns the course of history.  The influence of the prediction upon the predicted events is here being termed as the \\"Oedipus effect.\\"  Physics can arrive at universally valid uniformities, whereas sociology must be contented with the intuitive understanding of unique events, and of the role they play in particular situations, occuring within particular struggles of interests, tendencies and destinies.  If sociological laws determine the degree of anything, they will do so only in very vague terms, and will permit, at the best, a very rough scaling.<BR>Karl Popper who was a fierce advocate of democrary and social critiscim, dedicated this book to all of those who have been victims to the fascist and communist belief in the inexorable laws of historical destiny.	2002-10-18
US	52877960	RWLYLVGKCHUHK	158234101X	796684414	Into the Arms of Strangers: Stories of the Kindertransport	Books	4	21	21	N	N	When you save one life you have saved humanity	In the mist of today's worldwide events, where prejudice and hate runs free, it is encouraging to the human spirit to read the story of the kindertransport.  \\"Into the Arms of Strangers\\" is a first person narration of some of the children (now elderly adults) who were saved from the hands of Nazism and given an opportunity to start a new life.  This was all possible thanks to a noble attitude from the British government who was aware(as well as many other nations) of the final destination of the Jewish population.  From this act of mercy, 10,000 children (most of them from Austria, Czechoslovakia, and Germany) were transported from their native countries just before the outbreak of World War II (1938) into England where they were temporarily adopted, until circunstances would allow them to reunite with their families.  Despite the suffering these children went through, the unfair treatment some of them received, the psychological trauma, they are all thankful for the opportunity of being alive.  Most of them were able to restructure their lives, set roots and build a family.  Today they are witnesses to a dreadful chapter in human history and are here to give their testimony. Great merit goes to all of those who were involved in this humanitarian effort (Otto Hirsch, Norbert Wollheim, amongst others).<BR>Sad though it may be to read the account of each of these survivors, even sadder it is to realize that many, many more children could have been saved where it not for the selfish attitude taken by many nations.  For those who have had an opportunity to visit the Holocaust Museum in Jerusalem, it is a consolation to know that the children saved by the kindertransport are not listed among the other 1,000,000 children who did not have the same opportunity.  And history keeps reapeating itself... not much thinking is nedded to realize that at the present moment there are people in several parts of the world who would have their lives saved if the \\"kinderstransport spirit\\" were to prevail.<BR>There is a film in DVD/Video version of \\"Into the Arms of Strangers,\\" which won the Academy Award for Best Documentary Feature.  It is highly recommended, the book and the film complement and enrich each other.	2002-10-14
US	52877960	R2Y79MVL2F0AK9	0140021086	867016160	Girl with Green Eyes	Books	4	7	8	N	N	Easy reading and nice prose	\\"Girl with green eyes\\" is actually based on a previous edition by the title of \\"The Lonely Girl\\" which in turn makes part of the \\"The Country Girls Trilogy.\\"  It is a semi-biographical account, a personal reaction to the author's early life experience in an environment (Ireland - early sixties) marked by bigotry, prudishness, poverty, and emigration.  Because of O'Brien's use of a sensuous prose and graphic sexual content her books were banned in Ireland.  Her work however, obtained success in other parts of the world.  O'Brien has written plays, children's books, essays, screenplays, and non-fiction about Ireland.<BR>The main characters, Kate and Baba, have had a strict Roman Catholic upbringng, in a family farm in Dublin; both are insecure, and when their lives face an upturn they are not able to overcome their social constrains, they become victims of their upbringing.   They are destined to fail in their marriages and have a disillusioned adulthood.<BR>O'Brien's writings express concern with the status of women in society, their disappointments in sexual love, and their inability to reach happiness and fulfillment given the social constraints which bind them.  Her male characters tend to be violent, treacherous, or weak, while the heroines experience solitude and frustation.	2002-10-11
US	52877960	R1WWH7WUCLY570	0671797182	366654665	The Mind of God: The Scientific Basis for a Rational World	Books	5	21	22	N	N	Metaphysical journey	This book addresses fundamental metaphysical and epistemological issues, in a clear, rational, and profund way, using a language accessible to any reader who has basic knowledge of the main streams of present theoretical physics.  Paul Davies has the merit of being a great and at the same time humble scientist, one who is able to lower himself from the high pedestal and make his thoughts available to the general public.  Paul Davies is a scientist who does not subscribe to convential religion and for this reason some readers might interpret his ideas as a denial of &quot;God.&quot;  In fact, in his quest for an ultimate understanding of the laws of nature, he is actually affirming the existence of something &quot;beyond,&quot; whilst admitting our inherited limitations and the possibility that there may be some things with explanations that we could never grasp, and maybe others with no explanation at all.  Some routes to knowledge might bypass or transcend human reason (be it mystical, revelation, or supernatural).<BR>He carries the reader throughtout this journey for ultimate truths, starting with the Greek philosophers, all the way to the main streams of theoretical physics, probing theories of origin and destiny, space and time, creation by design or chance, nature of life and consciousness, the universe as a gigantic computer, mathematical &quot;truths,&quot; quantum physics and so forth.  The beauty of Paul Davies is that he is able to present all this rich and complex matter with an open mind, exposing not only his personal opinion but also the pros and cons as manifested by a wide range of intellectual gifted minds.  He does take a firm stand with respect to a &quot;superunifed&quot; theory, arguing against it on the basis that such model relies on mathematical assumptions which do not correspond to our universe and though the theorems of mathematics may be deduced from within the system of axioms, the axioms themselves cannot.<BR>Beside being a scientist, Paul Davies is above all a man who feels bewildered, seduced, and enchanted by nature's simplicty within its overall complexity, by this universe which is not seen as the plaything of a capricious deity, but as a coherent, rational, elegant, and harmonious expression of a deep and purposeful meaning (we are truly meant to be here). It is a positive stand, with an open mind, where there is no room for dogmas!	2002-10-10
US	52877960	R35TWIBP1XAGWE	0345383184	226644971	Music and the Mind	Books	4	63	65	N	N	The Muse of Music	The author is an acclaimed psychiatrist whose personal life was very sad and lonely; he attributed his passion for music as the element which preserved his sanity and emotional equilibrium.  Out of the many books he wrote, this was his favorite.  He attempts to discover what it is about music that so profoundly affects us, and why it is such an important part of our culture.  In doing so, he quotes a vast array of opinions; actually he draws more from what other peole have had to say about music than his own personal opinion.<BR>Storr sees music as subjective, emotional need for communication with other human beings; it structures time and brings order out of chaos, and it has a positive effect upon patients with neurological diseases.  Physiologically, the emotional response is centered in the right hemisphere whilst the ability to appreciate structure and make critical judgments is located on the left side of the brain. He is of the opinion that music originates from the human brain rather than from the natural world and its universality depends on the urge to impose order upon our experience.  He criticizes the dispute between formalists and expressionists since for him it is obvious that appreciation of both form and emotional significance enter into the experience of every listener and cannot be separated.  Contrary to Freud's opinion, Storr holds that music is not an escape from reality but a means to structure our auditory perceptions and can also serve as a precursor to creative discovery.<BR>The last few chapters are dedicated to a philosophical analysis of the views held mainly by Schopenhauer, Jung, Nietszche with respect to music.  Storr does not fully accept Schopenhauer's &quot;unus mundus&quot; or Jung's &quot;pleroma,&quot; and is more inclined to accept Nietszche's concepts:  music reconciles an individual to life and enhances it, it is physically and emotionally based, and it links the two principles of Apollo and Dionysus.<BR>Storr gives a historical, psychological, philosophical, and above all a passionate account of importance of music in the life of an individual.  Quoting his own words, music is &quot;something for the sake of which it is worthwhile to live on earth... it is an irreplaceable, transcendental blessing.&quot;	2002-10-07
US	52877960	RQILN2J8JHPDP	0753808641	920930658	Astonishing the Gods	Books	4	14	17	N	N	The invisible reality	\\"Astonishing the Gods\\" is a spiritual/philosophical journey, one whose goal is to reach \\"Perfection,\\" a road long pursued by countless humans.  Seen from the Christian point of view it is the journey back to the state of grace, for Buddhism it is the state of ultimate meditation, for the apocryphal it is the soul striving back to its origins, for Plato it is reaching the Forms and Ideas, and for the scientist the discovery of the Theory of Everything.  In one way or another, Ben Okri touches (purposely or not) on these different roads to reach the \\"unreachable star,\\" leaving the reader free to judge and give his own interpretation.<BR>Ben Okri makes uses of mythological themes such as the unicorn, religious allegories to the original sin and Christ, a beautiful paralllel between the \\"archangel of invisibility\\" (a \\"she\\" figure) and Sophie, the god of Wisdom.  \\"Astonishing the Gods\\" is a tapestry of profound thoughts, touching on issues of depth with respect to love, death, reality, and the ultimate purpose of life.  It carries a message of hope, a belief in our innate ability and power to free ourselves from a world of illusions and reach the reality beyond, a state in which goodness and love will be the driving force.  Needless to say, this journey is not easy, straightforward, and smooth.  Ben Okri does hit some bumps along the way, his reasoning not totally free of paradoxes... inevitably so, it happens to anyone who attempts to journey into a reality in which time and space ceases to exist, and at the same time is chained to temporal perception.	2002-10-04
US	52877960	RO2K0TXZU6ZUS	0140444203	568905062	The Jewish War: Revised Edition (Penguin Classics)	Books	4	8	9	N	N	Historical eyewitness	This is a classical historical eyewitness account of the Jewish revolt 66-70 CE against Roman rule.  It covers the following events:  the outbreak of the war, campaign in Galilee, the isolation of Jerusalem, the fall of the city in the hands of Titus, destruction of the temple, the triumphal return of the conquerors to Rome, and the Massada episode.  The first version was written in Aramaic but latter translated to an impeccable Greek, the narration covering many details concerning Roman war tactics (Flavius Josephus was himself a general, first for the Jewish rebels and later an advisor to Titus).  It fails to our present concept of how history should be written in the sense that Flavius Josephus puts in too much of his personal life, with considerable self-adulation.<br />There are controversies as to how reliable is Flavius Josephus account (destruction of the Temple, for example), to what extent facts where distorted in order to set Flavius favorably in the eyes of his fellow Jews and in the eyes of his Roman benefactors. Whatever the criticisms to his personal life or the fallacies in his historical account, the fact remains that his writing is a rich source of information of a war brought about by the religious tension between the Jewish populace who had become impoverished through high taxation and the Roman government.  Much ironical it may sound, but Jospehus with his shrewdness and a strike of luck was destined to remain alive so that we may enjoy and gain knowledge of a specific time in history.	2002-10-01
US	52877960	R11RPOWJNI63BB	0743224574	87039745	A Beautiful Mind: The Life of Mathematical Genius and Nobel Laureate John Nash	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Great mind... bad boy!	Much has been said about this book and movie, pros and cons whichever way you may look at it.  Much can be gained and enjoyed from these two different outlooks into the life of a man who not only was a mathematical genius but also a man with a controversial personality.  John Nash embodies those rare cases in which an individual is endowed with a mind that surpasses the normal and also does not fit into what we term as &quot;socially acceptable behavior.&quot;  He was able to develop one of the most complex mathematical theories (Game Theory), and in his personal life he was sadistic, arrogant, and selfish.  His friends and colleagues felt divided between admiration for Nash's intellectual feats and his awkward behavior.<BR>Nasar's approach in writing this biography is strictly professional and academic.  She has done a vast research into the personal life of Nash, his time, the academic environment, the effect schizophrenia had on Nash, and the intricacies of Noble Prize winning.  She does get carried away in detailed explanations of the academic milieu, of the competitive environment and life circunstances of several mathematicians who directly or indirectly had contact with John Nash.  She does browse over some advanced mathematical concepts but the reader should not expect in this biography a theoretical analysis of Game Theory (there are several technical books on the market solely dedicatd to this theory and its effects on social and biological sciences).<BR>As to how Nasar addresses Nash's schizophrenia, she successfully recounts the trials Nash had to face, the methods then used to deal with a serious mental illness that affects more than two million Americans and 1 in 100 people across the world.  Although this is a biography and not a treatise on schizophrenia, the author could have further expanded on this topic since it is the core of Nash's problems, of his personality traits, of professional career, and his inspiring remission.  To what extent were hishigh intellectual capabilities responsible for his rebouncing into reality, for his abilities to overcome his delusions?<BR>Despite the flaws that might have been previously mentioned, the story of Nash is by itself interesting and fascinating.  Whoever saw the movie should read the book as well.  You will have some surprises, because movies and books are different means of communication, the emotions they convey can be radically different.	2002-09-16
US	52877960	RLGDF3IO4UFSH	0140283595	659653769	The Notebooks of Don Rigoberto	Books	3	3	6	N	N	Erotic dreams	This is a sequel to \\"In Praise of the Stepmother,\\" of the love triangle between Don Rigoberto, Lucretia, and Alfonso (Fonchito), returning to the theme of love attraction between a boy and an older female relative.  It must be said that this theme has an autobiographical connotation, since Mario Vargas Llosa fell in love and married his much older aunt.<BR>Don Rigoberto belongs to the bourgeois society, a successful businessman who at night pursues his hedonistic, eccenric passions.  Separated from his second wife Lucretia, he indulges in  fantasies to make up for his longing.  Lucretia the devoted wife, whose passions and fantasies rivals those of her husband, has been accused of seducing his angelic and at the same time \\"luciferian\\" son Fonchito, a precocious little boy who shows an obsessive interest in Egon Schiele's paintings.<BR>After reading some of Don Rigoerto letters, it becomes obvious to the reader that he is not recounting real experiences but using fantasy to fulfill his loneliness.  His narration sometimes becomes tedious and repetitive; fortunately, his fantasy is sometimes broken by some discourses in which he attacks modern society from a variety of angles:  patriotism, philosophy, militant feminists, sport enthusiasts, history, etc.  Meanwhile, Fonchito applies his knowledge of life and work of painter Egon Schiele to seduce his stepmother's imagination whilst the reader is left to decide whether this young boy is a truly innocent and naive, or a pathological character.  The extensive analysis of Schiele's work , details of famaous paintings, and other bits of general culture will add some interest to the narrative, and will compensate for Fonchito's irritating call \\"stepmam, stepmam...\\"<BR>If it was Mario Vargas Llosa intention to transplant the aesthetic beauty of a classical work of art into literary fiction, the end result falls short of its objective.  A work of art will leave the viewer with an open door to fulfill his imagination, whilst\\"The Notebooks of Don Rigoberto\\" is utterly saturated with less than artistic fantasy.	2002-09-15
US	52877960	RFRX14HMP7A1M	0452276063	962040808	The Dancing Universe: From Creation Myths to the Big Bang	Books	4	18	19	N	N	Religion and science tracking the same objectives	Starting with ancient myths, going across the history of philosophical/physical science to our present day, Marcelo Gleiser demonstrates how there is a common language and purpose uniting human thought.  There is no sense in maintaining a bi-polarity, a separation between spiritual and scientific inquiries.  The quest for the Absolute Reality transcends the distinction between religion and science and each one serves as inspiration for the other.  This becomes evident in the arena of the origins of the universe where there is a link between ancient myths and modern cosmology.  Mysticism has been a source of inspiration for many scientists and the concept of a &quot;cold, materialist&quot; scientist is totally out of context.<BR>Marcelo Gleiser dedicates an extensive chapter on the Greeks, continues his journey into neo-Platonism during the Middle Ages, Copernican revolution, Galileo, Newton, all the way to present optics, thermodynamics, relativity and quantum mechanics.  The closer he moves into contemporary science the more technical his language becomes, but overall it is quite an accessible reading which does not require substantial background in major scientific developments.<BR>For the author the beauty of science is that it brings us closer to nature; it would be a benefit to each and everyone if science were to be taught with a less emphasis on its cold, rational, &quot;operative&quot; objective.  Gleiser also explains how we are slaves to our rational mechanisms (language fails to fully explain the quantum phenomena), how our finite brain attempts to reach the infinite and trascend our bipolar reality.<BR>Marcelo Gleiser draws a parallel between myths of creation and cosmological models for the origins of the universe, classifying them into temporal myths with the corresponding theories of the Big-bang or Lemaitre primordial atom, and &quot;atemporal&quot; myths and the corresponding models proposed by Bondi, Gold and Hoyle, or the &quot;Phoenix Universe.&quot;  He makes use of an informal narrative, with an outspoken enthusiasm, removing the aura circumscribing physics and physicits.  In the process he sacrifices technicality for the benefit of a wider scope of readers.	2002-09-14
US	52877960	R8XCOT5LI0PJV	0140281630	489174445	Heart of Darkness (Penguin Great Books of the 20th Century)	Books	5	12	13	N	N	Inherited evil	Joseph Conrad was a naturalized Britist novelist of Polish descent. He took command of a steamship in Belgian Congo in 1890 and his experiences provided the backbone for \\"Heart of Darkness,\\" resulting in an autobiographical component to the novel. The story is being told of Marlow who travels up the River Congo into the heart of the African Continent, at the height of European colonialism. Throughtout the perilous journey Marlow suffers a profound transformation on his outlook into human nature, plunging him into darkness. Being brought up as a middle-class European he holds pre-conceived views of the African continent and its inhabitants, describing the natives with condescension and contempt. Despite his prejudices he is not able to remain indifferent to the cruelty and horrors of colonization, the hypocrisy, the erosion of moral values, the brutality imposed by a \\"technically\\" advanced nation over a primitive one.<BR>Marlow becomes obsessed by his goal to meet Kurtz, a mystical character who has become famous for his sucess in extracting an enormous amount of ivory, and who by the use of sheer brutality has gained respect and is revered as a god amongst the natives. Deep inside Marlow holds the hope that Kurtz will be able to give him a logical, morally accepted justification for the horrors he has seen. When the meeting does take place, Marlow finds Kurtz has become a savage himself, has lost ties to any respectable western moral standard, has plunged himself into insanity and \\"horor, horror!\\"<BR>The prose is powerful, elaborate, exuberant and realistic, immersing the reader into a tropical atmosphere, with humidity, dampness, fog, heat, mystery and bewilderment. There is a ample use of symbolism conveying abstract and philosophical concepts. \\"Heart of Darkness\\" represents a bleak outlook of reality, much as most of Joseph Conrad's novels; at its most abstract level it represents the inability of human beings to understand the world beyond the self, of how civilization masks the inherited evil in human kind, of alienation and confusion. From a pragmatic point of view it fails to the extent that Marlow's position is ambiguous, he is eyewitness to horror but remains passive, unwilling to change the course of events, a fatalistic stand.<BR>Undoubtedly, \\"Apocalypse Now\\" drew plot elements from \\"Heart of Darkeness,\\" and so did Alvaro Mutis in his novel \\"La Nieve del Almirante.\\" Good suggestions to complement the scope of \\"Heart of Darkeness\\" are \\"King's Leopold Ghost\\" by Adam Hochschild, and \\"The Poisonwood Bible,\\" by Barbara Kingsolver.	2002-09-12
US	52877960	R3ED2ZJ8KKPMZU	0192823817	462636450	His Last Bow: Some Reminiscences of Sherlock Holmes (The World's Classics)	Books	3	3	4	N	N	Master of deduction and analysis	This is a collection of eight short stories, first published in October 1917, narrating some of the adventures of detective Sherlock Holmes, the last one entitled \\"His Last Bow.\\"  Sherlock Holmes is amongst the most famous characters ever created in literature, his popularity overshadowing his creator, Sir Arthur Conan Doyle, to the point that some people are under the impression that Sherlock Holmes in fact existed.  The inspiration came from Dr. Joseph Bell, a friend and tutor to Conan Doyle and who shared many personality features with the famous detective.<BR>The author had Sherlock Holmes killed but public demand was so high for further adventures that we find him back in action.  Determined to have a permanent retirement, Sherlock Holmes moves into a small farm and dedicates himself to other matters, refusing to offer his intellectual ability to the government.  With World War I approaching he backs up on this determination and his return into action is narrated in \\"His Last Bow.\\"  The cases range from theft, burglary, kidnapping, to murder, and in all of the them Sherlock Holmes is a master in the science of deduction and analysis.<BR>By those considered expert \\"Sherlockians,\\" this is not Holmes at his best and certainly not as good as his masterpiece \\"The Hound of the Baskervilles.\\"	2002-09-11
US	52877960	R1GVB7K6ZR8JG6	0140447806	61570983	The Consolation of Philosophy (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	11	13	N	N	Is life a "Wheel of Fortunes?"	Suffering imprisonment, fear, torture, and anger for feeling unjustly punished, Boethius seeks intellectual consolation.  The result is a work of profound depth, which became the most popular secular reading during the Middle Ages with long lasting effects.  It is truly rational in its approach, following the classical Neo-Platonic style, and although it does not rely on any Christian doctrine the inner core of Boethius's argument requires faith.  The dialogue between the two characters (the author and Philosophy) follows a classical model, alternating with monologues and poems (Menippean satire).<br />Boethius questions the existence of evil, of impunity, and suffering of the innocent (a reminder of Job).  Assisted and guided by a woamn who personifies Philosophy, Boethius discourse and rational dialogue will reach the conclusion that there is no merit in worldly riches and fame, the highest good governs the universe, and wisdom is eternal.  Suffering serves a purpose when it draws the individual back on the true path.  Worldly existence has two realities:  human and divine (Providence).  But if there is Providence, if God has already drawn the path for every individual's life, where does free will stand?  For Boethius God knows the future, but humans have the desire for good implanted in their nature and it is upon everyone's will not to be lead astray through spiritual ailment.  Freedom exists to the extent you are able to recognize God's fate!  Happiness and the seed of truth lies within, good fortune deceives, bad fortune enlightens!  The \\"Wheel of Fortunes\\" cannot take away from you that which you possess within yourself.<br />Boethius philosophical reasoning might not be entirely satisfactory, or somehow passive, and that being the case Boethius reminds us (by means of Philosophy) that \\"it is not allowed to man to comprehend in thought all the ways of the divine work.\\"  Something else besides reason is required... and that could be faith!<br />In real life, Boethius was executed by order of Theoderic the Ostrogoth, an authoritarian monarch.  \\"The Consolation of Philosophy\\" might have brought the author the strength, peace, happiness and the \\"consolation\\" he so much needed in his life's trial... but in the end the \\"Wheel of Fortunes\\" took its turn.thius was executed by order of Theoderic the Ostrogoth, an authoritarian monarch.  \\"The Consolation of Philosophy\\" might have brought the author the strength, peace, happiness and the \\"consolation\\" he so much needed in his life's trial... but in the end the \\"Wheel of Fortunes\\" took its turn.	2002-09-10
US	52877960	R25QAG8MF55U05	0679601279	835464954	The Character of Physical Law (Modern Library)	Books	4	26	28	N	N	The beauty of physical laws	One the greatest theoretical physicists and popular lecturer, Feynman expresses his view on the puzzles, controversies, and problems at the core of physical theory.  He uses as an example the law of gravitation to show that despite the simplicity of physical laws, they are not exact, there is always a mystery, always a place where there is further work to be done, so &quot;scientists must stick their heads out.&quot;  And what is most remarkable is not what scientists have been able to discover, but what nature has taught us.  Feynman stresses the importance of mathematics as the key to any system of scientific laws (mathematics is more than just a language, it is language plus logic).  This is a series of lecturers to be read preferably by those individuals who have a solid background in physics, otherwise you may find your neurons will not know in which direction they should fire!  As Paul Davis rightly says: &quot;theoretical physics is one the hardest of human endeavors, combining as it does subtle and abstract concepts that normally defy visualizations with a technical complexity that is impossible to master in its entirety.&quot;  Feynman did have the genius to deal with it!	2002-09-08
US	52877960	R28795SY5BKGF9	0941419444	409824159	The Late Mattia Pascal (Eridanos Library)	Books	5	11	12	N	N	The brain is the piano and the player the soul	Italian author, winner of the Novel Prize in 1934, Luigi Pirandello is better known for his plays, forerunners of the theatre of the absurd.  In this novel, the main character Mattia Pascal faces an economic downfall and a marriage without love.  He decides to escape from this situation and in a stroke of luck wins a fortune in Monte Carlo.  He takes a new identity, gains total freedom, shams death but the ghosts of his past existence, and the discovery of true love will spoil his new life.<BR>The plot is neatly constructed and the dialogues between Mattia Pascal and some of the characters are enlightening, expressing Pirandello's philosophical outlook on life as well as reflecting biographical elements.   The author is concerned with the ambiguity of truth and reality, the problem of identity and illusion.  For him self-identity only exists in relation to others, as much as man is a social creature, unfortunately bound to social conventions.  Man creates his own reality and lives in a world of illusions, always bound one way or the other to the past.  The resulting paradox is that illusion may often become more real than reality!<BR>Mattia Pascal is unable to cope with his total freedom which strucks him as being shapeless and aimless.  Only the love he feels for Adriana will help him brake away from his suffocating mask.  Upon returning to his former town he finds his wife has remarried and he is destined to become the shadow of a dead man.<BR>Pirandello held a pessimistic outlook on life, believeing that his time was one of distress and darkeness (early 20th century), democracy was nothing more than tyranny disguised as freedom, and philosophical speculations nothing more than a product of our imagination.<BR>\\"When death comes perpetual night will great us after the misty daylight of our illusion, or rather, we will be left to the mercy of Being, which will only have shattered the vain forms of our reasoning.\\"	2002-09-07
US	52877960	RV9IIJ516ULEV	0553272543	649450438	Ballad Of The Sad Cafe	Books	4	13	15	N	N	Ill-fated love	Carson Mccullers was a writer who had a confused, dramatic personal life, from a psychological as well as physical perspective.  The feelings of alienation and suffering were prevalent in her life and had a direct influence on her writing.  &quot;The Ballad of the Sad Caf&quot; is a direct reflection of her personal suffering.<BR>The story could be categorized as simple and to a certain extent grotesque, centred around three main characters:  Amelia Evans, her cousing Lymon, and ill-natured Marvin Macy, all of them eccentric individuals.  The setting is a small town alienated in time and space.  McCullers writings should be interpreted in an allegorical way.  In this particular story she deals with her pessimistic outlook on the nature of love, which according to her is bound to bring tragedy (as much as her own love life was involved in failure).  <BR>The story abounds on symbolisms and metaphors.  Many of her stories are set in the American South and she addresses, in a beautiful allegorical way, the reality of racial bias (in the case of &quot;The Ballad of the Sad Caf&quot; she uses the song of the chain-gang men).<BR>Despite this expressionistic stage, the reader cannot help feeling empathy for the characters and their drama, which is exactly what McCulleres is willing to achieve through her writings.  Highly criticized as well as praised by her contemporaries, McCullers has been somehow forgotten.  Many certainly have watched the film &quot;The Heart is a lonely Hunter&quot; but few remember her as the creator of such a beautiful and touching story.	2002-09-06
US	52877960	R13ZRH6ZU48S1X	0060900075	554528426	The Doors of Perception and Heaven and Hell	Books	5	53	59	N	N	Mind-at-Large	\\"The Doors of Perception\\" is probably the most popular non-fiction work on the subject of psychedelic experiences; it is based on first account records of the author's decision to experiment the consequences of intake of small amounts of mescalin, in an attempt to reach enlightenment and escape world's boredom.  Being who he was, the result is a very interesting narrative in which the author expands on his not only scientific but also philosophical, religious, and artistic ideas.<BR>The philosopher C.D.Broad suggested that our brains are genetically programmed to screen perceptions, selecting only those that are necessary for survival.  By doing so, humans close the doors to what Huxley calls \\"Mind-at-Large,\\" thereby loosing access to the world of unconsciousness and wonder.  Only through the use of chemical substances can a human being free himself from his inherited limitations, experience the realms of supernaturally brilliant visionary experiences, and obtain total freedom from the ego.  In this new stage of consciousness, spatial and time relationships cease to exist, whilst intensity, profundity of significance are augmented.  Our everyday reliance on language petrifies perception because \\"however expressive, symbols can never be the things they stand for.\\"  There is a need for a less exclusively verbal system of education and \\"an occasional trip through some chemical Door in the Wall!\\"<BR>Huxley's work is highly controversial and paradoxical.  How are we to develop a science of perception if our language is not equipped to express that same perception?  How are we to explain the differences in reaction to mescalin intake, ranging from peaceful and mystical to schizophrenic behavior?  How are we to define individuals \\"with open minds and sound lives\\" who would be normally allowed to use chemical substances (drugs) with no risk involved?  Let the reader keep in mind that this book was published back in 1954 and nowadays science is till dealing with these issues.<BR>In order to give an anwer as to why individuals react differently to drug intake, Huxley worte \\"Heaven and Hell.\\"  According to him, for some \\"the ego doesn't melt like an iceberg in tropical waters, but expands to the point of suffocation;\\"  only those who are free from negative emotions (fear, hatred, anger) have the door opened to visionary experience.<BR>Aldous Huxley raises a number of interesting issues, not be taken as \\"chicken-soup for drugs,\\" but rather as intellectual exercise for further thought and consideration as to what we most commonly refer to as \\"reality.\\"  His opinions and explanations may sometimes be considered \\"naive\\" and not fully elaborated, but merit goes to his audacity in exploring an area which to this day remains open to further understanding.	2002-09-05
US	52877960	R3017TKDNSJU8Y	8420631760	324199441	La nieve del almirante (Alianza tres) (Spanish Edition)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Maqroll's sad reality	Throughout the history of literature writers have been able to create some inmmortal, universal characters.  Alvaro Mutis' creation by the name of \\"Maqroll\\" is certainly one of them.  There is something of \\"Don Quijote\\" in him, an ability to transcend daily futility of life into something that touches the depths of human nature.<br />This book is one amongst several written by Alvaro Mutis, in which he gently narrates the adventures of \\"Maqroll,\\" his search for the meaning of life and the unavoidable reality that lies at the horizon: death.  Life poses the necessity of risk in order to give meaning to existence, of staying outside conventionalism.  Alvaro Mutis and \\"Maqroll\\" coexist, and just like \\"Don Quijote,\\" \\"Maqroll\\" knows that Mutis writes about him.  \\"Maqroll\\" knows it is impossible to reach order out of chaos so life for him is a continuous errand in search of his true self, not because he feels a messianic call but for his intimate conviction that he belongs nowhere.  \\"Maqroll\\" is a hero in a world in which there is no point of reference, where space and time have lost their meaning.<br />The poetry and prose of Alvaro Mutis have a touch of surrealism, a need to journey through the labyrinths of time (just like J.L.Borges).  A fantastic writer, with a unique sensitivity, and an illusory, gentle way of touching the core of our thoughts.  The nomination of Alvaro Mutis as winner of \\"Premio Cervantes - 2002\\" rightly represents the recognintion of this great Colombian writer.	2002-09-04
US	52877960	R1WFJ2W7PK8AFY	0374154767	278415393	The Feast of the Goat	Books	4	4	5	N	N	The horror of a dictatorship	Mario Vargas Llosa has always shown a great energy in his approach of themes and subjects, with a literary production full of life and strength.  \\"The Feast of the Goat\\" is no exception to the rule.  The author has passionately researched the history of Dominican Republic dictator Rafael Trujillo and added all the fictional spices and poison to a smooth and at the same time strong narrative.  This is a work of fiction where history holds the main plot and it is pointless to draw a line between the real facts and the embroidery added by Vargas Llosa.<br />The story recounts the last few days of a regime that lasted over 30 years, under the leadership of a man who knew no boundaries to power and no moral standards.  Using a tri-dimensional approach, the story is retold from three perspectives: through the eyes of a woman (Urania) who has been assaulted in her femininity, through the eyes of the rebels who seek revenge, and through the eyes of the self-proclaimed \\"God on earth,\\" the dictator.  The plots intermingle, Urania's story is the weakest, the \\"Chivo\\" is murdered, and the aftermath of the rebels, the country and President Belanguer overtakes the last few chapters. There is no element of surprise in the outcome, it is all foretold and obvious.<br />Mario Vargas Llosa addresses the social, historical, economical issues which constitute the backstage of Trujillo's dictatorship, but as well as his characters he is equally embellished by the power of the dictator and fails to understand why even those individuals with a broad education feel under the spell of Trujillo.  Consequently, the book leaves a gap in terms of the psychological roots of the nature that leads to a dictator, understandably so since Vargas role is to relate facts dressed up in fiction, leaving the \\"why's\\" to historians.  The use of compound names to which a nickname is added makes it rather difficult for the reader to identify who is being addressed.<br />\\"The Feast of the Goat\\" is a strong book,a \\"macho\\" book, and a sad and horrendous revelation of the consequences of extreme ideologies, of power in its utmost negative side.  Cases like the dictator Trujillo have abounded throughout history, his name can be easily substituted by many former and present dictators.  With his usual audacity and literary virtues, Vargas Llosa has retold the past and addressed an issue that should concern all of us in the present.	2002-09-03
US	52877960	RN4KOQDRAUR7S	014006530X	37926790	God's Grace	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Human nature on trial	Calvin Cohn, a Jewish paleontologist, son of a rabbi, is the only human survivor of a thermonuclear disaster.  He has to content himself with the company of a few chimps and baboons.  God is responsible for this second flood and He blames humans for destroying nature; Cohn has survived due to an error and he is let to live and make the best he can.  In this scenario of desolation, Cohn becomes a god-like creature, he believes he can recreate the world, impose a new social order based on high moral and spiritual values, hard working, order, aiming to turn his fellow chimps into a better lot than humans.  Amongst the chimps there is \\"Buz\\", a Christian who has been taught how to speak, sweet \\"Mary Madelyn\\" the only reproductive female of the group, \\"Esau\\" the nonconformist, a mysterious albino ape, and the cast-out gorilla \\"George\\" who is enchanted by the cantor's singing... <br />This a novel heavy in meanings, in the use of parables, fables and allegories.  Following Malamud's pessimistic outlook on human nature, Cohn is just one more of his characters standing in a long line of losers, an individual who fears his fate and becomes the object of ridicule and pity.  In his disguised reincarnation of Adam, Moses, and finally Christ, Cohn symbolizes the necessity of gaining moral wisdom through suffering.  In a metaphorical language and fantastic-like \\"Chagall\\" prose, Malamud creates a thought-disturbing novel, an account of human nature fragile standing, and a celebration to its strenghts as well as a lament to its weaknesses.	2002-04-08
US	52877960	R3H2IIUOFNU48Y	0743225325	715979019	Good Harbor: A Novel	Books	3	4	5	N	N	Harboring emotions	Katleen is 59 years old, happily married, with two grown up boys, when suddenly her life is shaken by a diagnosis of breast cancer.  Joyce is 42, a freelance writer, married, facing the hardship of dealing with a typical adolescent daughter, when she feels the need to change her life.  They meet at a synagogue get-together, and a friendsip strikes between both.  They go out for long walks at the beach, their dialoque touching on the dilemmas of the present and eventually revealing ghosts of the past.<br />Daimant's core theme in her new novel \\"Good Harbor\\" is friendship, more specifically friendship between women.  She does tackle on a number of other issues such as marriage, infidelity, guilt, and community life.  The two main characters remain rather shallow, never fully elaborated, as much as their daily life seems to mellow. There is a lack of dynamics, of energy, of strength, as if neither one truly commits herself to life.  They are indeed pitiful women, physically surrounded but lonely in their inner-self, struggling with feelings they find hard to share.  To what extent this is a reflection of our present society?<br />The narrative is subtle, very poetic when it comes to describing the beautiful setting, but rather laconic when it gets to dialogues.  There is an ever-present feeling of somberness, a tragic sense of how repression of emotions affects the life of individuals.  Diamant has failed to the expectations from readers who are familiarized with her previous novel \\"The Red Tent,\\" and to a certain extent understandably so.  A writer has many facets, and in \\"Good Harbor\\" Diamant strikes a chord she finds difficult to deal with and share.	2002-04-01
US	52877960	RCE2ZJUUIGULG	057500407X	551870059	Don Camillo Meets Hell's Angels	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Satire at its best	Guareschi was an Italian journalist, novelist, better known for his stories of Father Camillo and his relationship with the communist major Peppone.  Both characters carry ideological disputes in a satiric and humoristic fashion.  Through their discourse, Guareschi gave expression to his political ideas, especially with respect to communism.  \\"Don Camillo Meets Hell's Angels\\" is just one among a series of short novels (\\"The Little World of Don Camillo\\", \\"Don Camillo and his Flock\\", \\"Don Camillo and the Prodigal Son\\", \\"Don Camillo and the Devil\\", \\"Don Camillo's Dilemma\\", \\"Don Camillo takes the Devil by the Tail\\", \\"Comrade Don Camiilo\\", \\"Don Camillo meets the Flower Children\\") which made him one of the most popular writers in Italy.<br />The setting is a small village by the river Po, where both characters will confront each other with opposing views in social, religious, and political issues.  Guareschi's solution is one of compromise and mutual acceptance.  The whole series of Don Camillo novels reminds us of \\"Monsenhor Quixote\\" of Graham Greene.  Delightful and relaxing little book, the entire series should be re-edited.	2002-03-19
US	52877960	RU9MJ7GUVU3GW	0783886462	153296191	The Reader (Thorndike Press Large Print Paperback Series)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Understanding or Condemnation	One of the merits of good writing is to be thought provoking.  This is the case with this clean, simply-prose novel that touches on a very sensitive topic, one of moral and ethical content.  Following the steps of Primo Levi, the author deals with the issue of collective guilt from the point of view of the perpetrator, the German nation and the horrors of WWII.  How is one generation to deal with the atrocities of the previous generation?<br />Michael Berg, a young adolescent has his first romantic affair with Hanna Schmitz, a mysterious woman several years older.  Seven years later Michael will reencounter Hanna in a court room where she is been accused of war crimes.  Faced with the most unexpected, Michael has to cope not only with his disappointment but also with the dilemma of understanding or condemnation:  if he is to understand Hanna's past he has to pardon the perpetrators and condemnation is out of the question.  Hanna herself inflicts self-punishment by refusing evidence that would substantially reduce her sentence.<br />This ia a novel of psychological complexity and a parallel to human guilt and atonement.  Needless to say, the German example can be easily extended to similar events in history, to cite the ex-Yugoslavia war trials presently taking place in The Hague.  Bernhard Schlink brilliantly transports the reader into the core of a contemporary issue over which much has been said but little has been written about.  Congratulations!	2002-03-18
US	52877960	R1V8EJMV2VSLSE	0783886462	153296191	The Reader (Thorndike Press Large Print Paperback Series)	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Understanding or Condemnation	One of the merits of good writing is to be thought provoking.  This is the case with this clean, simply-prose novel that touches on a very sensitive topic, one of moral and ethical content.  Following the steps of Primo Levi, the author deals with the issue of collective guilt from the point of view of the perpetrator, the German nation and the horrors of WWII.  How is one generation to deal with the atrocities of the previous generation?<br />Michael Berg, a young adolescent has his first romantic affair with Hanna Schmitz, a mysterious woman several years older.  Seven years later Michael will reencounter Hanna in a court room where she is been accused of war crimes.  Faced with the most unexpected, Michael has to cope not only with his disappointment but also with the dilemma of understanding or condemnation:  if he is to understand Hanna's past he has to pardon the perpetrators and condemnation is out of the question.  Hanna herself inflicts self-punishment by refusing evidence that would substantially reduce her sentence.<br />This ia a novel of psychological complexity and a parallel to human guilt and atonement.  Needless to say, the German example can be easily extended to similar events in history, to cite the ex-Yugoslavia war trials presently taking place in The Hague.  Bernhard Schlink brilliantly transports the reader into the core of a contemporary issue over which much has been said but little has been written about.  Congratulations!	2002-03-18
US	52877960	R3UIDHHNLUCHUP	0156006464	750278	First You Build a Cloud: And Other Reflections on Physics as a Way of Life	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Philosophy of Science	K.C. Cole in her profession as a journalist has set herself to write science for the general public.  With an animated and direct prose, use of analogies, and extensively quoting from a wide array of distinguished scientists, Cole brings physics into everyday life.  This a book that my seem superficial to the eyes of readers who are seeking in-depth scientific data, formulas and theories, and they might be right in thinking so.  For Cole the idea that science is inseparable from philosophy is a theme that pervades her book.  Her purpose therefore, is to share and explain the most basic concepts of modern physics with those who are still having trouble in grasping the concepts of gravity, elementary particles, matter, space, time, quantum mechanics, and bring forth how present day physics stands with respect to elementary philosophical issues.<br />Consequently, we are faced with the fact that relativity and quantum theory have completely changed the way we think about everything from time and space to energy and matter.  Very little in science is actually wrong and nothing in science is ever completely right.  Scientific truths are better regarded as relationships holding in some limited domain.  Things must be learned only to be unlearned again, or more likely, to be corrected.  The philosophical perspective shows that there are many windows to reality and human science no longer experiences the world through our rather &quot;narrow&quot; senses.  Present day physics forces us (whether we like it or not) to accept complementarity:  because one view is right, the opposite view isn't necessarily wrong!  The very reality of the order in random events has totally altered the meaning of our notion of causes.  We are left with the further and perhaps more fundamental paradox that chance follows laws!<br />When science looks into the future the vision is of how much needs to be further learned and explored in an open realm where dogmas have no place.  This is what makes this unpretentious science book worth reading.	2002-03-01
US	52877960	R2ZST0J8C13JBC	0375406956	127846038	My Name Is Red	Books	5	105	108	N	N	"To God belongs the East and West"	Seldom do we find in literature a work with so many well-elaborated facets.  This is the case with \\"My Name is Red,\\" a novel which not only has a murder plot and a love story, but is also richly adorned with history, art, politics, while addressing deep philosophical/religious issues.<br />The novel has an architectural strucure made up of 59 chapters, each one representng the perspective of every character involved in the plot, besides inanimate objects (a corpse, a coin, the color red, death), figurative characters such as a dog, a horse, and Satan.  The result is a cubistic outlook in which each piece has its own autonomy and at the same time remains dependent upon each other.  Although \\"Black\\" is the main figure, none of the characters is fully developed; they serve as means to painstakingly and repeatedly address the central issues of the novel:  the political allegories and the philosophy of art.<br />The plot evolves around the story of an art book requested by the Sultan (back in the 16th century) in order to glorify the life and deeds of the monarch.  The miniaturists (Butterfly, Stork, Elegant, and Olive) commissioned to perform the paintings have to struggle between adherence to conservative techniques of a two-dimensional painting versus the introduction of the new western approach to art, using perspective (three-dimensional) and portraiture.  This clash eventually brings a disruption of the old stability and results in the murder of two miniaturists.<br />The author is a progressive Muslim intellect who opposes the conflict between East and West (East and West being relative terms and as the Koran rightly states \\"To God belongs the East and West), and holds to the principle that \\"all good art comes from mixing things from different roots and cultures.\\"  Two cultures should not generate conflict but rather an amalgamation in which the values of each one are preserved and respected.<br />\\"My Name is Red\\" is an outstanding novel, exquisitely crafted, withintense monologues and dense passages, demanding close attention and persistency from the reader.  A most gratifying experience which undoubtedly places Ohran Pamuk as one of the most gifted contemporary writers.	2002-02-24
US	52877960	R35PKEG72BK45M	0946626758	376456098	The Golem	Books	4	39	40	N	N	A journey into the unconsciouss	The legend of the \\"Golem\\" had its origin in Jewish folklore and mysticism, and its reading ranges from a methaphysical interpretation to a child's tale.  From the first perspective the Golem is seen as a mystical attempt to experience \\"imitato dei,\\" God's power of creation and the transcendental nature of the ritual; on a more legendary perspective the Golem is seen as a man-like creature who was created by rabbi Loew from Prague, to protect the ghetto community from persecution and injustice.  In Meyrink's novel, the Golem is used as a symbolic device, in an exploration of the problem of identity.<br />Considered a masterpiece of fantasy and expressionism, Meyrink's \\"The Golem\\" is an oneiric novel with a strong religious gothic tone, a mirror of Meyrink's intellectual pursuit and involvement in occultist movements.  The main character and narrator, Athanasius Pernath drifts in a state of hypnagogia, his memory blocked from the past, desperately in search of his own identity -- \\"Who am I?\\"  In his quest, the Golem will take Athanasius into an inner journey, in a shift from consciousness to unconsciousness.  Meyrink also introduces the mystic and cabbalist concept of the \\"secret of intercalation\\" (Ibbur), a combination of God's determinative and guiding hand and of man's freedom of choice and responsibility.<br />It is a novel with a phantasmagorial plot and visionary settings, where characters are drifted by a reality outside their understanding.  Some readers might find the journey altogether weird, abstract and surrealist.  However, the magic of Meyrink resides exactly in an artistic vision which embodies infinite interpretations.  His own words best illustrates his own perspective of life:  \\"when men arise from their beds, they think they have shaken off sleep and they know not that they have fallen victim to their senses and are in the grip of a much deeper sleep than the one they have just left.\\"	2002-02-07
US	52877960	R1K7XL04JERGSF	0684853043	954190155	The River Midnight	Books	4	13	13	N	N	The lyrical shtetl	I.B.Singer, Peretz, S.Aleichem, D.Bergelson, Mendele all have portrayed shtetl life, with a tragic, comical, historical, or religious perspective.  L.Nattel in her debut as a novel writer has given us her lyrical, colorful interpretation of the shtetl life in a fictional village of Blaszka (Russian occupied Poland), at the end of the 19th century.  At the core of the story there are four characters (the \\"vilda Hayas,\\" or \\"wild creatures), all of them female.  The strong, independent Misha, a midwife who challenges traditions but remains much respected and loved by the community; Hanna-Leah the childless butcher's wife; Faygela the dreamer who wishes to become a poet and becomes the mother of many, and Ziza-Sara who emigrates to New York and has an early death.  Around this core there is a myriad of remarkable characters:  Emma and her revolutionary ideas, the rabbi and his fear of fire, Hayim the water carrier, besides the ever-present angels and demons of Jewish folklore.<br />Nattel has divided her novel by a \\"mekhitzah\\" (the walll that divides the men's section from the women's section in a traditional synagogue) and contrary to tradition women's perspective has precedence over the counterpart genre (excuse me, the \\"mama\\" comes first and then the \\"papa\\").  The final and third section is dedicated to Misha, the strongest character, the keeper of secrets who has become pregnant but who will not reveal who the father is.  This structure is responsible for the novel's much criticized flaw:  overlapping and repetition.<br />The author integrates her vast knowledge of folklore, traditions, magic, and with an enjoyable sense of humor brings back a community life which is now part of history.  Great historical events are not emphasized, there is no drama, it is a reading to be placidly enjoyed, the concern is with daily life, erotism and passions, friendships, understanding and misunderstandings amongst the characters, with some hints of magic realism which somehow seemsout of place.	2002-01-22
US	52877960	RAN2A7L4HUOAI	0375407375	175582861	Half a Life	Books	3	4	4	N	N	Half-a-Book?	V.S. Naipaul's &quot;Half-a-Life&quot; is far from being an enjoyable book to read in terms of its content.  Through its main character (Willie), the author has portrayed an individual who is not able to set roots anywhere, be it in his native land (India), in his pursuit of a literary career in London, or in his realization as a married man in Mozambique.  The caste system which he so strongly despises follows him everywhere he goes, no matter how much he attempts to rewrite his life.  Since he can never come to terms with his own self, his identity, and acceptance of what life has given him, he becomes a marginal man and fails to take any responsibility on his life.  He is a half-bred individual, who marries a half-bred, and who leads a half-life!<br />The theme is a pessimistic approach to reality, a direct reflection of the author's belief that human beings fail to live life to its full potential.  The issue the reader might pose is: what is a &quot;full-life!&quot;  Since the author fails to address this matter, the novel has an open end.  In one of his several interviews, the author was asked what he would like readers to see in &quot;Half-a-Life,&quot; to which he answered:  &quot;It's me!&quot;  Would it be fair then to say that this book reflects Naipaul's darker side?  Are critics right when stating that it is not Naipaul at its best?<br />Merit goes to a clear, crystal, and concise style, with a perfect use of the language.  Blending autobiography, fiction, and nonfiction, with a cosmopolitan outlook, Naipaul carries the reader into the world of different cultures, and more specifically into the flaws contained by each one of them:  prejudice, the stains left by colonialism, the rigid social and religious structures, emigration, alienation, and the spell of the past.  It would be fair to say that whoever wants to get a better taste of Naipaul's work should start with &quot;A House for Mr. Biswas,&quot; or &quot;A bend in the River,&quot; or &quot;The enigma of Arrival.&quot;  The experience will be more gratifying!	2002-01-18
US	52877960	R1NWWLJAUX86I4	0929497716	554193399	Walpurgisnacht (STUDIES IN AUSTRIAN LITERATURE, CULTURE, AND THOUGHT TRANSLATION SERIES)	Books	4	21	21	N	N	A soul in despair...	Walpurgisnacht might probably be considered Meyrink's most pessimistic, apocalyptic vision of the inevitable destruction of the world, of the weaknesses and foolishness of humankind.<br />The word &quot;Walpurgisnacht&quot; has its folklore roots in the concept that the night of April 30th is an evil night, one when old values are destroyed and replaced by new ones.  But, in the mind of Meyrink no new values will bring salvation to the world.  The novel was published in 1917, and the setting is the city of Prague during WWI.  The main characters are Zrcadlo (the mirror) the solitary man who forces people to look into their own souls, and Dr. Thaddaeus the only survivor of a spiritual alchemy, the only character capable of facing his sould and taking a new direction in his life.<br />In his contempt for established religion, Meyrink brings forth the concept of Aweysha.  Anyone who is not able to hear his own soul becomes an &quot;aweysha,&quot; a living body whose soul has moved into another living being, a dead mirror where strange demons come and go, a wandering corpse.  Defying the concept of &quot;free will,&quot; Meyrink holds that anything a person does against his will comes from &quot;aweysha.&quot;<br />Myerink was influenced by Jewish mysticism and found in the experience of the &quot;innermost I&quot; the salvation of the soul:  &quot;the innermost I is the source of joy, and who does not worhsip it is a servant of hell.&quot;  Unfortunately, his mystical experience integrates the good and the evil alike, downgrading the soul to low moral standards.<br />This novel is a reflection of personal despair, a desperate search for a transcendent reality that will surpass mysticism into the esoteric.	2002-01-02
US	52877960	R2NGQODZ51Y7MW	8420613096	610377494	El Aleph / The Aleph (Spanish Edition)	Books	4	42	48	N	N	Intellectual ecstasy	&quot;The Aleph&quot; is the title given to a collection of short stories written by J.L.Borges, one of the most prominent Latin American writers who, contrary to his contemporaries, was mainly concerned with the eternal questions of existence, leaving political and social issues aside.  An elusive personality, a solitary intellect, Borges addressed the selective ones and not the masses.  With a succinct, sometimes laconic style, in an ironic and nihilist attitude, he deals with philosophical questions, history, time, personal identity, human ethics, and the mystical experience of the Oneness.  Most known for his poetry, Borges also wrote essays and short stories.  His short stories can be viewed as essays, or essays which have turned into fiction.<br />Borges had a metaphysical perspective of reality and his fictional universe is immersed in esoteric concepts and theological speculations on Gnoticism and Cabala.  (The Aleph -- first letter of the Hebrew alphabet -- is considered by the Cabalists as the mystical letter through which it is possible to see the whole universe)  Borges incorporates this concept in his obsession to find the ultimate elixir of life.  For him life's purpose has no meaning, what is important is the ethical and intellectual instinct; reality is seen as ideas which only persist while they are perceived, time has no beginning and is not infinite.  In this unconceivable world, the self must be extinguished in order to achieve revelation.<br />To understand Borges requires rereading and interpretation, it requires an internalization of his philosophical perspectives which paradoxically means the impossibility of understanding.  Borges draws literature into the world of quantum reality!	2001-12-31
US	52877960	R3KMY494I8TOIE	0936609230	271883294	Tales from the Mountain	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Universal regionalism	Miguel Torga is the pseudonym of Adolfo Correia da Rocha, a Portuguese writer born in Trás-os-Montes, a remote, desolate, poor region of the country, a place from which many natives were to emigrate in search of a better future.  Miguel Torga became known first through the transcendent beauty of his poems, but his literary work also includes diaries and short stories.  The last is the case of &quot;Tales from the Mountain,&quot; a collection of short stories focused on the way of life and the people of his native land.  Miguel Torga remained throughout his life sentimentally rooted to this region, he created a myth of Trás-os-Montes, a lost paradise of his early childhood, a place he was forced to leave but whose prints remained forever embedded in his mind.<br />These short stories have a &quot;universal regionalism&quot; which becomes more poignant if the reader has been to &quot;Trás-os-Montes.&quot;  Narration is in the third person, and in a tragic tone the author laments for the life of those who have been left alone to face their relentless destiny.	2001-12-21
US	52877960	R283CFRC8BW3GO	0374525285	828207438	Hunger: A Novel	Books	5	16	19	N	N	Truth is selfless subjectivity	Published in 1890, &quot;Hunger&quot; represents a breakthrough from traditional romantic European writing.  Influenced by Dostoievsky and Nietszche, and anticipating Kafka, Joyce, and Camus, Hamsun creates a novel with intense personal (partially autobiographical) narration (using first and third person), developing on the theme of alienation and artistic obsession.  It represents Hamsun'a masterpiece in his first literary production stage, in which social/political issues are of no concern, only the individual and his stream of consciousness.<br />It is a plot less novel, the setting is Christiana (now Oslo), and the main character is a starving, homeless young journalist, with a mercurial personality.  His reactions have no middle term, he moves from extreme joy to acute depression, from arrogance to humility, on the verge of irrationality.  It clearly reflects the author's early poverty, his pathological passion with aesthetical beauty, and an enormous driving force to perfect his concept that &quot;language must resound with all the harmonies of music.&quot;  &quot;Hunger&quot; anticipates Freud and Jung in their understanding of human nature, and creates a new literally hero, the alienated mind.<br />Of Norwegian nationality, Knut Hamsun won de the Nobel Price for Literature in 1920.  In real life he was ostracized by his countrymen and the literary community as a result of his radical individualism, and political/social views.  Yes, Hamsun was a convicted Nazi, friend of Hitler and Goebbels, an advocate of the &quot;pure&quot; race (Jews should be expelled from Europe, Blacks should be returned to Africa), and he applauded German invasion of Norway.  Neddless to say, when WWII was over, he dearly paid the price:  imprisonment, confiscation, and poverty.  When he died at the age of 92 (1952) he showed no remorse and helf firmly to his beliefs.<br />The question arises:  to what extent can we separate art from the artist, creation from the creator?  Maybe another Nobel Laureate, Isaac Bashevis Singer, himself a Jew, can answer this question for us when he states:  &quot;the whole modern school of fiction in the twentieth century stems from Hamsun.&quot;	2001-12-20
US	52877960	R1N88E4FV45CTZ	0948238038	604508446	And the Ass Saw the Angel	Books	3	6	7	N	N	Squeeze this novel and blood will come out!	This is the first and only novel written by Nick Cave, one of the world's most acknowledged songwriters, best known as a rock artist in the groups \\"The Birthday Party\\" and \\"The Bad Seeds.\\"  Having said so, readers who are acquainted with his lyrics will be in a better position to appreciate his writing.  The author literally locked himself up in a room for three years to write this novel, by some considered a \\"masterpiece.\\"<br />The setting is a fictional Southern town with a population marked by religious fanaticism, ruled by the \\"Ukelites\\" (based on a real life sect called the Morisites).  The main protagonist is a young fellow by the name of Euchrid Escrow, mute, physically handicapped, and subject to epileptic fits.  He lives in a world of evil, ignorance, where he takes the role of an outcast.  In order to survive he camouflages his feelings, and from a passive role he eventually becomes an avenger with fantasies of grandeur and of God's emissary to this world.  His complete alienation will result in inevitable madness.<br />This is an extremely disturbing, macabre tale, marked by brutality.  Not even its \\"poetic\\" prose verging on the baroque will bring relief to the reader.  Nick Cave certainly knows his Bible, and the title of this novel is to be found in Numbers 22, 23-31 where the story is been told of how Balaam failed to see the angel of the Lord.  There is extensive use of parables and metaphors, although the author himself claims that this novel should not be seen as a parable.<br />The style is unique, far from academic, where slang, abusive language, biblical quotations, masterful wording, and an alien language are all tools used by Nick to create an atmosphere in which, as quoted by the author \\"it is very exciting sort of thing to write about things that are not morally correct.\\"  Be it correct or not, the fact remains that his obsession with the grotesque makes this novel not an easy \\"pill to swallow!\\"  Certainly not for the faint of heart!	2001-12-13
US	52877960	R35U2AJF2HSSXR	067976397X	659658614	Corelli's Mandolin: A Novel	Books	3	7	12	N	N	Enjoyable..... but far from a classic!	The setting is the Ionic island of Cephallonia, right at the outset of the Second World War.  The characters are diversified as human nature:  beautiful and romantic Pelagia, wise and honorable Dr. Iannis, charming musically talented Captain Corelli, brave disguised homosexual Carlo Guercio, ignorant and naive Mandras, amongst many others.  On the background the novel recounts the Italian occupation of the island, the German invasion, the brutal civil war, and the final change of this placid, loving island into a busy centre of tourism.<br />In the world of books, most often popularity and literary excellency do not run side-by-side.  This is certainly the case with &quot;Captain Corelli's Mandolin.&quot;  Although enjoyable to read, with a wide spectrum of emotions ranging from love at its most sublime and romantic manifestation, to cruelty and barbarity brought about by war, this book has noticeable flaws in its structure and content.  As usually happens with fiction novels set against a political and historical background, the interpretation of the latter is subject to criticisms, the author in this case being accused of showing a one-sided version.  This seems to be particularly true with respect to the way the author has pictured the partisans/communists indifference and refusal to fight against the occupying forces, be they Italian or German.  This issue has brought such indignation amongst survivals of the events and some Greek authorities to the point that Bernieres was compelled to write a new chapter (four years after the first edition) which has been added to the Greek edition (published on the Sunday Times -- 24 May 1998 -- and also available on internet).<br />The author narrates the events at a first-gear speed for the first 300 pages and then abruptly for the last 80 pages he moves to fifth-gear speed, covering two generations in the flip of a page.  Such inconsistency not only breaks the rhythm but raises questions as to exactly at what point the novel should have reached its end.  Overall, the characters are well portrayed, they tend to neatly represent basic human qualities and frailties.  If at any point their behavior seems to be incongruent with their personality, it is the typical case where the author (unfortunately) has &quot;molded&quot; the characters to fit the plot (Captain Corelli's reluctance to approach Pelagia upon his return to Cephallonia).<br />From a positive perspective, the narration remains vivid, lively, and genuinely humorous.  It adds to one more novel where romance is victim of the horrors of war and its consequential breakdown of values.  If the reader is not to take the historical side or the structural flaws too personally and keep in mind he is in the realm of fiction, then it will be worth reading.	2001-10-21
US	52877960	R1ZN4Z1QKX821U	0874411033	805349087	As a Driven Leaf	Books	4	17	17	N	N	&quot;Wilt Thou harass a driven leaf?&quot; -- Job 13:25	Set at the time shortly after the destruction of the second temple, this novel is based on a traditional tale from the Talmud. The tale describes how four sages journeyed into the realm of metaphysics and as a result one died, one became insane, one became an heretic, and only one (Akiba) was able to come through the experience. The main character, Elisha ben Abuyah, is in fact a historical figure, and has come down through history as an heretic rabbi, an apostate, a dualist who betrayed the Jews to the Romans after the rebellion in 132-135 C.E. (the &quot;Aher&quot; -- the one who took another point of view).<br />Elisha's faith, already shaken by the influence of Greek and Roman culture, looses his faith in God after witnessing the accidental death of a child. Like Job, Elisha challenges God -- &quot;Wilt Thou harass a driven leaf?&quot; The dictum of the sages &quot;it is not in our power to explain either the happiness of the wicked nor the sufferings of the righteous,&quot; was not an adequate answer to calm his distress. In his attempt to find axioms and a succession of propositions on which the doctrines of the Tradition might rest, Elisha opens a Pandora box in his mind.<br />Although Elisha's despair is honest, his persistent reverence and reliance on intellect turns his life into tragedy. He becomes aware that neither reality outside man, or feeling within him, is altogether logical, there is always a residue of the irrational never to be resolved into lucidity. Man's mind is an inadequate isntrument to achieve certainty. For all truths rests ultimately on some act of faith, geometry on axioms, and sciences on the assumptions of the objective existence and ordeliness of the world nature.<br />Published for the first time in 1939, this novel remains forever important in its dealing of a fundamental philosophical issue: the limitations of reason and the power of faith in the search of Truth.	2001-06-27
US	52877960	R2LE9CQS1VIXTH	187398264X	154835267	The Tragedy of the Street of Flowers (Dedalus European Classics)	Books	3	10	12	N	N	A Portuguese Greek Tragedy	The writer Eça de Queiroz (1846-1900) introduced naturalism and realism in Portuguese literature and is considered the Portuguese &quot;Zola.&quot;  His novels (the most important ones are &quot;The Crime of Father Amaro,&quot; and &quot;The Maias&quot;) are characterized for their ironic tone, descriptive style, and criticisms of the social, political, and religious institutions of his time, most precisely in his native country, Portugal.  In his novels there are no heroes and the author remains emotionally detached from his characters.<br />&quot;The Tragedy of the Streets of Flowers,&quot; was published posthumously, in 1980.  Its theme is centered on the love story between young Vítor and the prostitute Genoveva, a most ardent passion destined for a tragic outcome.  Eça is well known for his perfectionism, and through long, detailed descriptions, we are given an elaborated picture of Portuguese society at the end of the 19th century, with its false morals, lack of national identity, sluggish social and political institutions, and overall decay.<br />This edition is to be praised for the inclusion of a short biography of Eça.  Neddless to say, the atuhor was a victim of false morality, hypocrisy, and prejudice, all of which reflected in his critical approach to his native country and its society.	2001-06-17
US	52877960	R2PWEDR8B911DJ	0395574234	826587377	Manhattan Transfer	Books	3	14	16	N	N	Non-traditional style	John dos Passos stands amongst the &quot;American modernists,&quot; a member of the lost generation, whose most outstanding feature in his literary production is a non-traditional writing style, an outspoken revolt against the molds of classic fiction.  He invented the grammar of communication of the late twentieth century, and is considered by some critics as the American Joyce.<br />In &quot;Manhattan Transfer&quot; the author depicts New York City in the 20's, reflecting social concerns and the two-fold morality of the American Dream.  In his narrative he weaves several scenes and a horde of unrelated characters, with flashes and cut-backs, better described as a movie-technique.  With the use of stream of consciousness, the author relies on the the reader to make his own conclusion.  In view of these innovative techniques, &quot;Manhattan Transfer&quot; does not fit in the traditional scheme of composition and requires some adjustment from the reader.<br />A knowledge of the author's biography (see &quot;Dos Passos,&quot; by Virginia Spencer) is a necessary tool in understanding John dos Passos.  His family history (he was an illegitimate child) is characterized by deceits and desertions, by a fundamental sense of not belonging in the scheme of society.  It is clear that his characters carry autobiographical references.	2001-06-15
US	52877960	R2O2DG28ZDX8KO	0060642327	467052217	Stalking Elijah: Adventures with Today's Jewish Mystical Masters	Books	3	3	6	N	N	Personal spiritual quest	This book comes as a natural sequel to its predecessor &quot;The Jew in the Lotus.&quot;  The later describes the author's encounter with Buddhist mysticism and how this event eventually led to rediscovering of his Jewish roots.  &quot;Stalking Elijah&quot; describes his encounters and dialogues with mystical teachers inspired on Kabbalah, representatives of the Jewish Renewal Movement in America (Rabbi Zalmon Schachter-Shalomi, Rabbi Jonathan Omer-man, Rabbi Lynn Gottlieb).<br />It is a very personal view, self-centered, a mystical journey that leaves many open questions and speculates on several issues.  Although Kamenetz writings may act as a source of inspiration for Jews (and why not for other denominations as well), his exhausting elaboration on certain issues might be viewed as tedious by some readers.  His striving quest for religious identification and willingness to share his adventure with his readers underlies a sad paradox:  the mystical journey, as much as the experience of God, is such a personal, instrospective, and subjective experience that it becomes impossible to share it with other people by means of all known conventional methods of communication.  <br />Probably the most important conclusion he reaches is that when a Jew is faced with the dilemma between mystical experience and practical religious life, complex procedures are not required.  A single blessing from the heart may very well do the trick!	2001-06-11
US	52877960	R155ANAWLSDO3E	0060963107	192455654	Taking the Quantum Leap: The New Physics for Nonscientists	Books	4	15	19	N	N	Qwiffs, flows, and pops!	Reading this book is in fact the equivalent of taking a quantum leap, an explosive jump with uncertain destiny, off into an unchartered territory with little or no guidance.  Fred Alan Wolf carries us through a scientific journey of how the phenomenon of motion has been viewed, from Zeno to the most recent scientific discoveries.  It is a journey of risks and paradoxes.  The apex in this adventure is the Principle of Indeterminism or Uncertainty, a law that has given a new meaning to world order and has disrupted the foundations of mechanical motion, determinism, continuity, and objectivity.  What is matter?  Particles or waves?  It depends on what one chooses to observe!  There is no reality until that reality is perceived.  But quantum mechanics affirms there is an order in the universe, and it may be the order of our minds.<br />If duality was a term used by theologians and philosophers, quantum mechanics brought about the concept of duality in nature.  Our actions in the world are always a compromise between two such opposites, the more we determine one side of reality, the less the other side is shown to us.  When it comes to the so-long discussed theme of free will versus determinism, the philosophy of quantum mechanics affirms both views are wrong and right at the same time.<br />Moving away from traditional physics, dissatisfied with mechanical notions of the universe, the author passionately moves into the world of deep philosophical questions, a world which arises from the limitations of quantum theory.  Albeit using a logical reasoning, he speculates on some of his concepts, his wild imagination carries him into a world in which God is placed in the center of the universe, &quot;preparing quantum feasts of knowledge, all kinds of magical and tasteful future goodies in the form of magnificent qwiffs!&quot;  Fred A. Wolf dares to exceed the speed of light!	2001-06-07
US	52877960	REMD5JU3GF0WA	0060969598	910808942	The BOOK OF JOB	Books	4	20	24	N	N	Why?	Job has a sudden change of fortune, he losses his health, wealth, family, and status.  He addresses the question &quot;Why?&quot;  Four human counselors --Eliphaz, Bildad, Zophar-- (Elihu is not present in this translation) are unable to provide the insight Job desperately needs.  It remains to Jehovah to address Job and let him know that he must trust in the goodness and power of God in adversity by enlarging his concept of God.  Job is perhaps the earliest book of the Bible, author unknown.  Set in the period of the patriarchs, the main character is a Gentile.  Oddly enough, he has been personified as the virtue of patience, contrary to the Biblical Job who is angry to the point of blasphemy, and rightly demands justice.<br />This beautiful translation into English, directly from Hebrew, is to be praised for its sound, strong, energetic poetry and more so for its scholarly introduction.  Mitchell's interpretation of the book of Job is not one of spiritual acquiescence, of capitulation to an unjust, superior force, but of a great poem of moral outrage, a Nietzchean protest.  In it, Job embodies Everyman and grieves for all human misery, and acquiescence at the end of the poem is a result of spiritual transformation, a surrender into the light, the acceptance of a reality that transcends human understanding.	2001-06-06
US	52877960	R6NS83G2Y654G	0374464898	960555705	Stories for Children	Books	5	24	25	N	N	Share this world with a child	Although this set of 36 stories is recommended for reading level 4 to 8 years old, Singer would rightly say that story tellers &quot;write not only for children but also for their parents, they too are serious children.&quot;  Singer considers children as the best readers of genuine literature, by nature inclined to mysticism, and with their own particular logic and clarity they rely on nothing but their own taste.  With an array of supernaturral characters (devils, gnomes, hobgoblings, prophets, imps, saints, and demons) Singer fulfils a mosaic of fantastic imagination, colored by a rich folklore, addressing moral issues that concern the child and the adult as well.  Stories such as &quot;Zlateh the Goat,&quot; &quot;Popiel and Tekla,&quot; &quot;The Power of Light,&quot; amongst others, have a universal appeal because they address eternal questions.  For Singer, now matter how young a child might be, he is a philosopher and seeker of God.  An adult will surely enjoy these tales, and if he can share them with a child then his pleasure will be doubled!	2001-05-30
US	52877960	R2N0NEUNFV6L49	0156012944	270892195	The Invisible Voice: Meditations on Jewish Themes	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Spiritual-intellectual freedom	George Konrad is a Jewish Hungarian essayist and novelist.  Once imprisoned for his political writings, he participated in the Hungarian uprising and has played an ctive role in the birth of democratic principles in Eastern Europe.  &quot;The Invisible Voice&quot; is a collection of essays (20 altogether) encompassing a variety of issues, with the usual strong moral basis of a great thinker.  Advocating a spiritual-intellectual resistance and plurality of human reality, Konrad tackles the issue of the importance of free will both at the level of the individual, and collective society.<br />He discourses on issues such as nationalism and the imperative of human being not to submit his freedom of conscience to any human institution, be it state or church.  As a Diaspora Jew, Konrad firmly holds to the principle that it is impossible to have total jewish assimilation -- &quot;Jews cannot free themselves from the gift, or burden, of having born Jews&quot; -- Jewishness meaning the imperative of personal freedom of thought.<br />On the issue of the conflict between Israel and Palestine, Konrad stands for a peace that is not limited to a &quot;cease-fire,&quot; but rather on mutual acceptance, respect, a peace to be made by the whole of society.<br />Konrad is a humanistic Jew, seeking for a validity more universal than the national; always conscious of the fact that man's fate designated him for choice, to decide what is good and what is bad, every day of his life.  Great reading, and it is unfortunate that his two best-known novels - &quot;The Case Worker&quot; and &quot;The City Builder&quot; - are presently out-of-print.	2001-05-20
US	52877960	R1R4YRQJA6NEUH	0810115379	308898992	The King David Report (European Classics)	Books	5	19	19	N	N	Truth will prevail	This is another masterpiece from Stefan Heym, the pseudonym for Helmut Flieg.  The author is an East German/American Jewish writer, known for his controversial political standing, and as an advocate of &quot;real socialism&quot; he has been a victim of totalitarism and western democracy alike.  In &quot;The King David Report,&quot; Hyem has retold the old biblical/legendary/historical story of King David.  The main character, who personifies the author, is Ethan of Ezra, a wise, truthful man who has been entrusted by King Solomon to write the official version of King David's life and deeds.  Ethan is the intellectual who must face the conflicts of time and who is tormented by the limitations which are set to his writing the truth, who soon realizes that learned men are an annoyance to the people and a bother to the servants of the King.  To what extent should he expose the truth of King David's life, who setting aside his political glory can also be accused of being a murderer, adulterer, and a machiavellic leader? How does history deal with a King whose only purpose was power, who only loved himself, whose God was made exclusive to himself and justified his crimes in the name of the Holy One?  Ethan soon realizes that the outlaw will cover his tracks rather than leave behind accounts of his exploits, and a high price is to be paid by those who are willing to bring forth the truth.<br />How are we to deal with historical undesirable matter?  Tell it all, tell it with discretion, or don't tell it.  Heym's intention is to extrapolate the story of King David to events taken place in our recent history, something that comes out quite easily for the reader.  But despite oppression, torture, false witnesses, perversion of the facts, plariarism, and the death of the innocent, the author is a positive, optimistic thinker. He believes that it is impossible to entirely divorce history from truth and expect it to remain credible.  &quot;As the sun breaks through the clouds, truth will break through words...&quot;<br />&quot;The King David Report&quot; has a complex structure, a well-documented background, and a clear ironic transparency.  It is a well-elaborated piece of literature, which must be seen as a historical novel, a biblical account, and a political satire.	2001-05-12
US	52877960	R3LPREUKJTVF0Y	0375706410	663303744	Waiting: A Novel	Books	5	47	50	N	N	Richness in simplicity	The author, Ha Jin (Xuefei Jin) left China in 1985.  Illiterate until his mid-teens, he presently teachs English at Emory University and has published two books of poetry, two collections of short stories, and two novels.<br />&quot;Waiting&quot; is a simple fairy tale, a story in which much is being said underneath its surface.  Based on an old ancient Chinese folktale (or a true story as defined by the author in an interview), Ha Jin recreates and sets the plot in a moder post-revolutionary China.  There is a two-fold approach:  the universal, in which Ha Jin deals with human nature, its virtues and frailties, the issues of loyalty, duty, friendship, betrayal, and love; and the strictly Chinese, the social/political system.  Although the characters are not politically oriented and the plot evolves indifferent to the chaotic world outside the insular setting, there is a clear political allegory and ideological irony (the book has been banned in China).  All the characters are directly or indirectly victims of a social/political system, of a collective society where the individual can never exist or act &quot;per se.&quot;<br />The plot is a love triangle:  Lin Kong, a Chinese physician, loyal officer of the Revolutionary Army, entangled in a loveless pre-arranged marriage, for 18 years desperately seeking a divorce; his wife, Shuyu, an illeterate village girl, bound feet, subservient, and with a moral superiority which the author does not explore; Manna Wu, a modern woman, hospital nurse, in love with Lin Kong.  Lin Kong personifies the sleepwalker, a man who is pushed and pulled by others' opinions, by external pressures, and by internalized official rules.  A fourth character (Gen Yang), although secondary, is the anti-thesis of Lin, being opportunistic and ruthless he holds to the belief that &quot;character is fate,&quot; he defies and uses the system in his favor, and gets away with what he wishes.<br />The prose is concise, clear, with beautiful lyrical passages and imagery.  It portrays a life perspective different from Western society, a reality much un-known outside China and sometimes difficult for the outsider to understand.  It will much depend on the reader's sensitivity and cultural openness to get the most out of this novel.	2001-05-02
US	52877960	R1IHPKL5C7VH2B	8480122390	233143585	Cuaderno del Duero (Los libros de la candamia) (Spanish Edition)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	First rate tourism	Julio LLamazares is a contemporary Spanish writer whose work includes poetry, press articles, narrative fiction, and travel memoirs.  &quot;Cuaderno del Duero&quot; belongs to the latter category.  In a simple, beautiful prose, Llamazares describes his 5-day trip to &quot;Trás-os-Montes&quot; (behind the mountains), Portugal's northeastern region.  This is a underdeveloped, forgotten land, characterized by extreme weather conditions both in winter and summer.  Natives emigratred by the thousands, in search of better living conditions, and each summer they return to savor their roots and old-time memories.<br />The narrative is carried in the third person (the traveler).  Starting at the city of Bragança, he descends the hillsides of the Douro valley, and then up again to the starting point, through a different route.  He visits not only the main cities (Chaves, Vila Real, Mirandela) but also a number of small towns and all-to-forgotten villages, always on the outlook of what makes this region so unique in itself.  The most outstanding feature of this traveler is his ability to carry a dialogue with the local people (despite his lack of knowledge of the Portuguese language), always sensitive to their nature and needs.  It shows how the author is not only interested in the histocial sites but mainly on the social aspects of region and its people.  This makes &quot;Cuaderno del Duero&quot; much more interesting and comprehensive than any other published &quot;tourist guide&quot; of &quot;Trás-os-Montes.&quot;	2001-04-27
US	52877960	R2X9PYVVPO9AKH	0609800558	722648744	Minyan: Ten Principles for Living a Life of Integrity	Books	4	24	25	N	N	&quot;Yesh&quot; and &quot;Ayin&quot;  --  Being and Emptiness	Shapiro is a Jewish liberal Rabbi and an award winning poet/essayist...Shapiro holds to the belief that anyone can become spiritually enlightened and in order to assist an individual to reach this goal he has developed a ten-fold method called Minyan.  But his is not the traditonal Minyan from Rabbinic law, a quorum of ten Jews, the minimum necessary for the performance of any religious service.  His Minyan refers to the practice of meditation, repetition, inspirational reading, attention, generosity, kindness, dream interpretation, ethical consumption, self-perfection, and Sabbath.  The maim of Minyuan is to attain d'vekut, oneness with God, seeing both Being and Emptiness as expressions of God, of becomming conscious of both the relative and the absolute.  The key to spiritual awakening is &quot;Chabad,&quot; the temporary annihilation of your sense of separateness.<br />Although Shapiro's method hinges on the esoteric and breaks away from conventional Jewish thought, the underlying value of his message is one of universal application, with no embedded dogmatism, a source of inspiration for people of all faiths.	2001-04-26
US	52877960	R1SH0DIZRUT7EX	044991240X	698494230	The Gates of November	Books	3	16	18	N	N	&quot;A tedious season they await, who hear November at the gate&quot;	Chaim Potok, well known for his novels (&quot;The Chosen,&quot; &quot;My Name is Asher Lev,&quot; amongst others), has frequently dealt with the theme of father/son conflict, of generation and cultural gaps.  In &quot;The Gates of November,&quot; he uses the same theme, but Potok now turns to a non-fiction account, an epic work with two cores:  20th century history of the Soviet Union and a personal drama.  It is a family tale in which Potok (himself active in the movement for Soviet Jewry) documents the plight of the Jews in the Soviet Union.<br />The book is divided in two sections.  The first one describes the life of Solomon Slepak, a Jewish renegade who emigrates to the U.S.A., discovers Marxism, returns to the Soviet Union, becomes an ardent, ruthless Bolshevik and rises to prominence within the Communist Party.  The second part narrates the life of Volodya (Solomon's son).  As a product of a different historical context and perspective, Volodya rejects socialism, revives his Jewish identity (mainly as a result of the prevailing anti-Semitism), attempts to emigrate to Israel and becomes an international famous &quot;refusenik&quot; (Jewish activist who was denied exit visa from the Soviet Union to Israel).<br />The author developes the family account based on taped interviews with Volodya, his wife, two sons, and other family members and friends.  Because of lack of first hand accounts from Solomon, the narrative for the first part of the book lacks interest and factual proves.  For example, it is beyond understanding how Solomom Slepak was able to survive through the purges against the Jews, especially considering that he ran high in the communist organization.<br />In this amalgamation of a non-fiction narrative and a family drama, the literary strenght of &quot;The Gates of November&quot; was negatively affected.  Had the author used a first person narrative, in a traditional historical novel, the book would certainly have a deeper emotional impact.  None of this, however, obliterates its historical value.	2001-04-20
US	52877960	R2UI3OODAAIDG2	9978410732	249338114	Trude Sojka (English and Spanish Edition)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Homage to an artistic phoenix	Life offered me a chance to live in beautiful Ecuador for some years and to have the opportunity of sharing some memorable moments with the artist Trude Sojka and her family.  Therefore, I take the liberty of writing a personal and emotional review.<br />Trude Sojka is the personification of a phoenix, the bird of rebirth.  As a survivor of the Holocust she is a testimony of human resilience and willfulness to recreate a shattered life.<br />Applying different media (cement, ceramics, glass, porcelain, acrylics) Sojka explores several techniques, literally isolated from the artistic world and glamour outside her own self.  Her work is best classified as sculpture-painting, with a characteristic thick texture, playing both with the figurative and the abstract.  Her fascination for pre-Colombian art is reflected in the incorporation of native themes, motifs, and specially the use of brightful colors.  The end result is an artistic work unique in itself, for its originality, beauty, and emotional power.<br />Trude Sojka deserves to be recognized not only for her contribution to Ecuadorian art, and for that matter to worldwide art, but also as an outstanding woman.  To be able to appreciate this editon of her art work is a source of pleasure, satisfacion and honor.	2001-04-16
US	52877960	R2BX17J0L6ICY9	0805211101	175687912	Terra Infirma: A Memoir of My Mother's Life in Mine	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Child of Silence	After the end of WWII, the term &quot;children of silence&quot; has been used to refer to children brought up by parents who had traumatic experiences and decided to remain silent with respect to the past.  Children brought up in this silence invariably have problems in facing reality; silence creates a void in their lives they desperately seek to understand (refer to &quot;Apples from the Desert,&quot; by Savyon Liebrecht).  Rober Kamenetz, (poet, author of &quot;The Jew in the Lotus) is also a victim of silence, and as a poet his book &quot;Terra Infirma&quot; represents his cathartic, emotional battle to untangle this issue.  In a style that is both lyrical and poetic, Kamenetz writes a sad, tragic story, filled with anger, regret, and love.<br />His mother, Miriam Kamenetz, refuses to speak of her past until the last stages of her illness.  Granddaughter of Jewish immigrants, her mother died in a mental institution, her father abandoned her in the hands of relatives, and eventually she was sent to a foster home.  Upon a successful marriage, she is determined to erase her past, to place mind over matter.  She becomes a fierce, willful mother, with a passionate love, channeling all her aspirations through her children.  This love suffocates the author in a metaphorical umbilical cord that is only cut with her death.  Poetry becomes the refuge in this shaky (terra infirma) relationship between mother and child.  The tension reaches its climax when the author confronts his mother through dreams, submerging him in a Freudian dream analysis.  Kamenetz's purpose in his book is to write about death of a loved one without being sentimental, as a healing and spiritual process.  If Kamenetz saw his mother's sadness as &quot;a song without lyrics,&quot; he has certainly given lyrics to her song, showing that his mother's all-embracing love bears a reciprocal love from her son.	2001-04-14
US	52877960	R3APBW6778KM2X	0374199892	452670847	Music & Silence	Books	2	7	12	N	N	Shoddy novel!	In this novel Rose Tremain describes how King Christian, of Denmark, was obsessed with perfectionism, nothing he would hate more than a &quot;shoddy&quot; piece of work!  Unfortunately, this is most probably how he would classify this novel.  The front cover states &quot;The best thing from Denmark since Hamlet!&quot;  A Danish or Shakespeare might obviously be offended with this statement.<br />The setting is Denmark, late 17th century, under the ruling of King Christian.  The King has failed to his own expectations of reaching perfection, has brought the country to financial disaster after the defeat on religious wars and overspending on megalomaniac buildings.  At a personal level he has been betrayed by his much loved Queen, has lost power over the nobility, is sick and getting old.  For Christian, music is the only artistic manifestation that will touch upon his emotions and help him reach a psychological balance and peace of mind.<br />&quot;Music and Silence&quot; is just another novel of love, romance, lust, betrayals, intrigues, there is a bit of everything and not much of anything.  The author attempts to give it a philosophical tone when touching the matter of the gap between reality and imagination (the dialogues between the King and the lutanist are the few interesting ones), but it turns out to be a superficial scratch that gets lost in a vicious plot and overcrowded stage.  The occasional reviews written on this book fail to agree as to who is the main character, quite understandably considering the broad display of characters, none of them strong enough to claim &quot;I am the main character!&quot;  Some of the interlocking narratives fail to work out well, and the final unlacing is quite naive.  Considering how little the author has elaborated on the historical background of this novel, &quot;Music and Silence&quot; is not a well-structured historical novel but just a novel with some historical touches to it.	2001-04-10
US	52877960	RKK2WLO2VRKRV	076790303X	102149219	The Science of God: The Convergence of Scientific and Biblical Wisdom	Books	5	46	54	N	N	I was, I am, I will be	Here we have one more crusader, a distinguished physicist and Biblical scholar, trying to bridge the gap between religion and science, showing that what might appear as diametrically opposed descriptions of the creation of the universe, of the start of life on Earth, and our human origins, are in fact identical realities viewed from different perspectives.  His theological sources are the hewbrew Bible, the Talmud, and the 13th century kabalist Nahmanides.<br />Schroeder tackles the issue of Darwin's theory of evolution and its flaws (&quot;nature does not make jumps&quot; versus &quot;natures only makes jumps&quot;), quantum uncertainty, relativity, cosmic background radiation, convergent evolution, anthropic argument, and other recent scientific innovations.  All of these issues are placed side by side with Biblical and kabalist commentaries.<br />The result is an amazing tapestry where the six days of creation match scientific description (time dilation), the Biblical &quot;bere'shith&quot; is the beginning of time, matter, and space, quantum mechanics is the graveyard of determinism and confirmation of free will, and the scientific &quot;insufficient caused event&quot; is the age-old Biblical definition of a miracle.  There is room for concepts such as:  God was to chose Abraham only long after Abraham had chosen God, scientific confirmation that less-than-human creatures with human-like bodies and brains existed before Adam, and pre-programmed DNA.<br />It is in fact an &quot;Amazing Technicolor Raincoat,&quot; weaved by a brilliant mind.  Schroeder may be accused for &quot;seeing reality as he assumes it to be,&quot; and for far-fetching his Biblical interpretations.  It is clear, however, that his honest intentions are not to bring disruptions but rather contribute to the convergence of science and theology.  Needless to say, strict believers on each side of the fence will have to open their minds.	2001-04-05
US	52877960	R1VZQWF6NW7MWB	1580230601	96262143	The Way of Flame: A Guide to the Forgotten Mystical Tradition of Jewish Meditation	Books	2	10	17	N	N	Preposterous title	With an authoritative intention of being &quot;A Guide to the Forgotten Mystical Tradition of Jewish Meditation,&quot; and a price tag way above its content, this book falls short of its objective.  The cultivation of &quot;kavannah,&quot; &quot;ratzon,&quot; &quot;m'sirah,&quot; and &quot;devekut&quot; is not as simple a task as has been set by the author.  Meditation, be it Jewish or of any other denomination, requires more than just a few guidelines to avoid falling into the klippah of pride, distraction, guilt, and doubt.  To place Avram Davis at the same level of Kierkergaard, Schopenhauer, or Spinoza is truly out of reality in terms of understanding the profound philosophy upon which Jewish Mysticism is grounded.  This book is less than a &quot;Chicken Soup of Jewish Mysticism!&quot;  If the purpose is to get a basic, good understanding of what Jewish Mysticism is all about, try Gershom Scholem, and from there move to others.  It seems Avram Davis has not been able to avoid falling into the klippah of pride!	2001-03-25
US	52877960	RB9G6B52G6MS0	1559390638	138882638	Choosing Reality	Books	5	20	24	N	N	Reality is merely an illusion, albeit a very persistent one	Although science has provided us with a wealth of knowledge about the physical world, it has reduced life to an epiphenomenal by-product of complex configurations of chemicals, therefore formulating a new article of faith:  all of reality boils down to matter and energy, subject to the mindless, immutable laws of nature.  However, Wallace advocates that a science that fails to investigate the subjective mental events is unnatural, therefore may be misleading.  His proposed instrument to overcome this barrier and enrich science is the use of refined introspection, let the mind probe the mind, cultivate states of awareness that themselves transcend language, concepts, and sensory experience.<br />The first half of the book concentrates on the latest development of physics and the diversity of opinions concerning the nature of physical reality.  Wallace debates on &quot;scientific realism&quot; versus &quot;instrumentalis&quot; and the flaws of each one (the former is unfounded and the latter is impotent).  With a clear narrative (and sometimes repetitive) the author discusses concepts such as transcendent realism, retroduction, reification, principle of unknowability, anthropics, among others.  The second half is dedicated to the explanation of the &quot;centrist view,&quot; a concept developed by Wallace and based on Buddhism.  The centrist view might be called conceptual reality and it fundamentally challenges the realist ontological assumptions underlying virtually all of Western science.<br />The is great, great reading!  Thought provoking to say the least! The concept that nothing can be found that exists in its own nature independent of our conceptual designation, is in itself a challenge.  You may not agree, you may be skeptical, you might have questions and doubts, but one thing is for certain:  you neurons will be put to work!	2001-03-23
US	52877960	R2MKGXQZ0TPG0Z	0618001905	966326914	King Leopold's Ghost: A Story of Greed, Terror, and Heroism in Colonial Africa	Books	5	8	9	N	N	&quot;The past is not dead.  It's not even past.&quot;  (W.Faulkner)	As an historian and advocate of international human rights, Hochschild has written a work of history that reads like a novel and expands the memory of human race.  His association of Conrad's &quot;Heart of Darkness&quot; with the reality in Congo opens a new perspective for a classic that so far has been read as an allegorical of Freudian parable.  With occasional lapses of narrative and more than a few suppositions, this book has been criticized by the scholarly oriented as being &quot;popular history&quot; with novelistic touches.  The reader might in fact feel there is a void in terms of data and the information might be sketchy, but he will not be able to avoid been shocked by the content of this book.<br />King Leopold II was an intelligent man, deceitful, hypocritical, and deprived of morality.  With political dexterity he carved for himself a &quot;slice&quot; of the the African continent, created his Congo Free State and run it as a private corporation from which he enriched himself for 23 years.  Profits derived from the exploitation of ivory and rubber.  As a product of his time, Leopold played the same game as other European nations, when the prevailing racism and imperialism gave way to mass murder, slavery and genocide.  His colonialism might be considered the cruelest of them all (what scale is used to measure cruelty is an open question), with an estimated 10 million natives been killed, a &quot;cut and run&quot; method.  Using the media, he manipulated his way, convincing the world his actions were fundamentally humanitarian (put an end to the Arab slave market).<br />The story is told through several biographical sketches of the principal heroes (E.D. Morel, George Washington Williams, William H. Sheppard, Sir Roger Casement, and Hezekiah Shanu) and the villains (Leopold himself, his accomplices, and the unconscious perpetrators of all the hypocrisies).  The heroes fought to expose Leopold's crime and eventually forced him to recounce his rule overCongo.  His &quot;politics of forgetting&quot; (burning all his Congo State archives) was not enought to erase history.  A far-reaching consequence was the creation of the Congo Reform movement, a foreruner of Amnesty International.<br />The book exposes ample moral dimension:  how greedy men can ravage other people for their own well being, it counter argues any rationalization of slave trade be it by Europeans or Americans, and it focuses on heroism and depravity of human existence.  It is a tale as important in its own time as it is today because the sources of evil described by Hoshschild are still among us.  As stated by W. Faulkner, &quot;The past is not dead.  It is not even past.&quot;  And to quote Hochschild himself: &quot;For some 80 years -- first under Leopold, and then.. under the Belgian colonial adminstration -- the Congo had the experience of being plundered, for the profit of those overseas.  No one should be surprised that this was followed by more decades of plunder, at the hands of Mobutu and the multinational corporations he was in league with.  And let's not forget... slavery -- both indigenous and transatlantic!  Democracy is a prety fragile plant... and none of Congo's heritage has been fertile soil for it to grown in.&quot;	2001-03-08
US	52877960	R1E1TGHNJQJLWY	0140283625	122319491	Once upon the River Love	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Mastery of prose	Makine is a Russian-born author, who sought asylum in France at the age of 30.  He is the first novelist to have received France's prestigious Prix Medices and Prix Goncouert for the same book.  His perfect mastery of the French language is rooted on lessons received from his grandmother, and when presenting his writngs to the editors in France he had to pretend they were translations from Russian.<br />The coming of age for three boys in a remote village in Siberia is the main event around which this novel is structured.  The trio, handsome Alyosha (the narrator), lamed Utkin, and strong minded Samurai, are all products of a secluded, narrow minded environment, where the only future perspectives are to work in the logging industry, the gold mines, or as a guard at a nearby gulag.  In this world of no changes, in a land where romantic love had no place, of long winters, of boredom and lack of passions, the coming of a series of Belmondo movies will fuel their imagination and search for the unknown.  The boys become seduced, fascinated by everything these films represent, the Western world and culture, freedom, love for the sake of love, and the beautiful sexy women.  The effect is so strong that each one of the boys will eventually live out their own Belmondian fantasy.  Uktkin as a writer, Samurai as a guerilla fighter, and the writer in the film industry.<br />Skilfully constructed and elegantly written, flamboyant style, sophisticated prose, sometimes overly elaborated.  The reader will sometimes feel intoxicated with the language; Makine's descriptions of Siberian winters are at the same time exceedingly touching and repetitive.  With a sexual overture, Andrei Makine carries his novel with a passionate prose, dreamy eroticism and powerful images.<br />This novel carries a universal theme in a provincial setting.  In its deep psychological context, there is also the sociological aspect.  The fascination &quot;development&quot; will play over &quot;backwards&quot;societies, the migration from the later to the first, and the emotional consequences upon those who dare face the change.	2001-02-27
US	52877960	R3NAMVJGR0O1FG	0140283625	122319491	Once upon the River Love	Books	4	3	5	N	N	Mastery of prose	Makine is a Russian-born author, who sought asylum in France at the age of 30.  He is the first novelist to have received France's prestigious Prix Medices and Prix Goncouert for the same book.  His perfect mastery of the French language is rooted on lessons received from his grandmother, and when presenting his writngs to the editors in France he had to pretend they were translations from Russian.<br />The coming of age for three boys in a remote village in Siberia is the main event around which this novel is structured.  The trio, handsome Alyosha (the narrator), lamed Utkin, and strong minded Samurai, are all products of a secluded, narrow minded environment, where the only future perspectives are to work in the logging industry, the gold mines, or as a guard at a nearby gulag.  In this world of no changes, in a land where romantic love had no place, of long winters, of boredom and lack of passions, the coming of a series of Belmondo movies will fuel their imagination and search for the unknown.  The boys become seduced, fascinated by everything these films represent, the Western world and culture, freedom, love for the sake of love, and the beautiful sexy women.  The effect is so strong that each one of the boys will eventually live out their own Belmondian fantasy.  Uktkin as a writer, Samurai as a guerilla fighter, and the writer in the film industry.<br />Skilfully constructed and elegantly written, flamboyant style, sophisticated prose, sometimes overly elaborated.  The reader will sometimes feel intoxicated with the language; Makine's descriptions of Siberian winters are at the same time exceedingly touching and repetitive.  With a sexual overture, Andrei Makine carries his novel with a passionate prose, dreamy eroticism and powerful images.<br />This novel carries a universal theme in a provincial setting.  In its deep psychological context, there is also the sociological aspect.  The fascination &quot;development&quot; will play over &quot;backwards&quot;societies, the migration from the later to the first, and the emotional consequences upon those who dare face the change.	2001-02-27
US	52877960	R152P64MUCM6JE	1559390816	529139539	Two Views of Mind: Abhidharma and Brain Science	Books	3	16	16	N	N	Eyeing the eye!	A comparison of Tibetan Buddhism and Western Neuroscience is no easy task.  DeCharms analyses matters such as perception, cognition, awareness, and thought from two different perspectives, a comparison set not with the purpose of outlying similarities and differences but rather to establish what can be learn from each other.  The aim is not to provide decisive and definitive answers but rather to open new ways of thinking about the mind.  Considering the differences in methodology, concepts, assumptions, and purpose, besides the embedded flaws and limitations of both Buddhism and Neuroscience (a philosophical and scientific approach), the vastness and extent of this matter is quite complex.  DeCharms states that Abhidharma is metaphysical, science is mechanistic, which means that even if the laws within the two systems are similar, they operate over very different domains of experience and should not be taken to be describing the same aspects of reality. This book covers an area of perennial debate and uncertainties, based on the inevitable realization that the only tool available to analyse the cognitive process is the cognitive process itself!  Quite challenging reading and certainly will leave the reader with a lot more questions than answers.	2001-02-13
US	52877960	R3BIHY0YXJKGLD	1883642817	602252071	The Watch: A Novel	Books	3	11	15	N	N	Political documentary novel	Carlo Levi (1902-1975) became a distinguished Italian journalist, writer, painter, and doctor, who is best known for his novel &quot;Christ stopped at Eboli,&quot; unquestionably his masterpiece.  Active in politics  as a devoted socialist and antifascist he founded the resistance movement &quot;Giustizia e Liberta.&quot;  &quot;The Watch&quot; (L'orologio) is best classified as a political documentary novel, pertaining to the Neorealism of postwar Italian literature.  Set in the desillusioned period after the war, it portrays a gallery of individuals (family, friends, partisans, and the commom people) all trying to cope and adjust to a new reality and the postwar Cabinet crisis in Rome.  Levi foresaw a perpetuation under new slogans and new flags of the worst features of the tendency towards fascism, a culture of the &quot;nostalgia.&quot;  The heroism and sacrifice of partisan war faces a conservative reaction.  Socialism has been a deception of history, the old structure is revived afer the war:  the parasites (Luigini) feeding upon their hosts (Contadine), and the overall purpose is to restore the authority of the state.  The partisans are blamed for pretending to reform a structure by preserving and restoring the very same structure they initially attempted to reform.  The &quot;watch&quot; merely plays the role of a symbol, an attempt to fix an old time mechanism, which eventually is substituted by a similar one.<br />Besides its political tone, &quot;The Watch&quot; is characterized by an elegant prose and clearly denounces Carlo Levi as a painter, with characters and setting descriptions viewed from the perspective of an artist who is stroking his brush on a canvas.	2001-02-04
US	52877960	R22RTNLQB6JFXF	060980393X	96020610	The Path of Blessing: Experiencing the Energy and Abundance of the Divine	Books	5	13	13	N	N	A Blessing in itself!	Rabbi Marcia Prager is an active Reconstructionist and Jewish Renewal Teacher, a storyteller in the tradition of great Hassidc Rebbes.  Listening to the voice of the Shekhinah, applying the teachings of Baal Shem Tov -- &quot;Enter into every letter with all your strength, God dwells in every letter and as you enter it, you become one with God&quot; -- Rabbi Marcia Prager explores the opening words of a Jewish blessing -- Barukh Ata Adonay Eloheynu Melech Ha'olam (Blessed art Thou, Lord our God, King of the Universe) -- and takes us into another dimension, one of mystical and spiritual fulfillment.  This is real &quot;kavvanah!&quot;  A wonderful guide for the enrichment of our daily life, not through the obsessed materialism of our era, but through the use of spiritual practice of blessing.  It is so simple and at the same time so deep and profound.	2001-01-17
US	52877960	R2K7Z6NW3DX99U	0385475721	850910906	The Blind Assassin	Books	4	6	8	N	N	In another dimension of space...	&quot;The Blind Assassin&quot; is unique in its structure, a novel within a novel, within a novel, within a novel..., the equivalent of a drawing by Escher, or a Russian doll.  At the epicenter lies the memories of an octagenarian, Iris Griffen, a woman haunted by her past, by regret and a sense of guilt, determined to leave a written testimony to her granddaughter Sabrina.  Iris is the product of an insulated and odd childhood, victim of the circunstances but often to be blame for her complacency.  The second story is a posthumously novel &quot;The Blind Assassin,&quot; an account of a love affair between a rich upper class woman and a socialist agitator who is running from authorities.  On a third level, within &quot;The Blind Assassin,&quot; there is a pulp science ficton novel.  Sounds strange and complex, but it is up to the reader to face this puzzle.  The writer will provide clues, but this foreknowledge enlightens and at the same time distorts.  With no logical time sequence and taking loops back and forth, the reader has to do some thinking to find the answers.  The outcome might come as a surprise, as a dissapointment, or a downright confirmation of what was already expected.<br />In this tapestry of memories there are several characters:  a caring mother who dies when Iris is 9 years old, a baffling and melancholic sister, a distant and authoritarian father, an ambitious and unscrupulous husband, and a spiteful sister-in-law.  The setting is Southern Ontario, in a world of &quot;fake morals&quot; and rigid class structures.  The time spans from 1920 to 1950, with major events taking place, WWI, Depression, Civil War in Spain, and the McCarthy era of communist hunting.<br />Margaret Atwood is a prolific writer, and &quot;The Blind Assassin&quot; as well as her previous work has a feministic overtone.  With her typical dark humor and irony Atwood writes a novel of human frailties, family secrets, sibbling rivalry, wealth and power, political and gender conflicts.  The moral might well be to what extent, despite prevailing circunstances, are we to be held responsible for our actions.	2001-01-16
US	52877960	R1YL2RDFHQ2K3E	1559704020	801366594	Collected Short Stories	Books	4	3	7	N	N	The other facet of Brecht	The author is best known for his theatrical work and poems, while his narrative prose has been underestimated.  This collection of 37 short stories (reprinted for Brecht's centenary) shows another facet of Brecht's literatry gift.  This is writing with an unpretentious tone and reporting style.  The composition of the stories falls into three distinct periods.  The Bavarian stories written between 1920 and 1924 treat mainly autobiographical problems of a young man in his early twenties.  The Berlin stories written between 1924 and 1933 marks his most intense period in this genre.  These stories have a sober and realistic style, thematically dominated by topical issues of the 1920's, aiming to reveal the social behavior of individuals.  The third group refers to stories written during Brecht's exile (1937-1940), the first pieces serve as ammunition in the struggle against fascism, and the later ones have a strong socially critical orientation.  The reader familiarized with the work of Brecht (poems and plays) will certainly recognize the author's style stamped in these short stories, his determination to represent reality accurately, lack of affectation, anecdotal but with a sense of dread.  Quite a treat for a lover of short stories!	2001-01-08
US	52877960	R3KHX8FWQV7835	0060930535	951868170	The Poisonwood Bible (Oprah's Book Club)	Books	4	25	30	N	N	&quot;Tata Jesus is bangala!&quot;	This is certainly the most powerful book written by Barbara Kingsolver.  It is an epic novel, a tale of sin and redemption, set against a dramatic political turnover.  The backstage is Congo's fight for independence from Belgium, the murder of Patrice Lumumba, the CIA coup to install his replacement, and the world economic game that plunges this African country into chaos.<br />On the front stage we have a typical 19th century novel, with a familiar plot (see &quot;The Mosquito Coast,&quot; &quot;A Play in the Fields of the Lord,&quot; or &quot;Kalimantaan&quot;): the theme of white men trying to force his alien culture and religion on native societies, and the disintegration of previous values held by the intruders.  The player in this act is a Baptist family, headed by Nathan Price an arrogant, eccentric, religious zealot, obsessed by faith and guilt, who is destined to risk his own life and the lives of those closest to him in pursuit of &quot;saving souls.&quot;  He represents the patronizing attitude of white colonialists and their devastating legacy.  His wife Orleanna is a symbol of passivity, totally dedicated to the care and survival of her kin.  The Price family is complemented by four daughters:  the oldest, selfish pragmatist 15-years old Rachel, the shrewd twins Leah and Adah, and the youngest, 5-years old, innocent Ruth May.<br />The story begins with the arrival of the Price family in a small village called Kilanga, in 1959.  The four girls narrate the story in turn, at the precipice of events, while the mother narrates in retrospect.  The narrative turns on different axes, shaped by the 5 feminine characters, the way they contemplate themselves and one another, the surrounding events and their individual adaptation.<br />Congo permeates &quot;The Poisonwood Bible,&quot; with descriptive, colorful, imaginative writing the author transports the reader into a world of tropical beauty, of heat and humidity, of abundance and drought.  The author herself lived two years in Congo when she was a young girl and her childhood experiences had a lasting effect on her imagination.  Although the author places her emphasis on people and not on politics, this a political angry novel, a critical view of imperialistic arrogance, exploitation, and prejudice.  Kingsolver, a radicalist by nature, writes with strong idealistic messages, she deliberately hooks people into a good story and then gives a political lesson.<br />Why the title &quot;The Poisonwood Bible?&quot;  Nathan Price, the obsessed missionary shouts &quot;Tata Jesus is bangala!&quot; but it never occurs to him that in Kigongo (the language spoken in Kilanga) meaning depends on intonation, and while &quot;bangala&quot; may mean &quot;precious and dear,&quot; it can also mean poisonwood tree, a virulent local plant!.	2001-01-05
US	52877960	R2PWFSSK18PZEO	1559704020	791132004	Collected Short Stories	Books	4	4	7	N	N	Another facet of Bertolt Brecht	The author is best known for his theatrical work and poems, while his narrative prose has been underestimated.  This collection of 37 short stories (reprinted for Brecht's centenary) shows another facet of Brecht's literary gift.  This is writing with an unpretentious tone and reporting style.  The composition of the stories falls into three distinct periods.  The Bavarian stories written between 1920 and 1024 treat mainly autobiographical problems of a young man in his early twenties.  The Berlin stories written between 1924 and 1933 marks his most intense period in this genre.  These stories have a sober and realistic style, thematically dominated by topical issues of the 1920's, aiming to reveal the social behavior of individuals.  The third group refers to stories written during Brecht's exile (1937-1940), the first pieces serve as ammunition in the struggle against fascism, and the later ones have a strong socially critical orientation.  The reader familiarized with the work of Brecht (poems and plays) will certainly recognize the author's style in these short stories, his determination to represent reality accurately, lack of affectation, anecdotal but with a sense of dread.  Quite a treat for a lover of short stories!	2001-01-01
US	52877960	RDAWHC4S7SFAQ	0140296476	263289727	Zero: The Biography of a Dangerous Idea	Books	4	13	23	N	N	&quot;for dust you are to dust you shall return...&quot;	The author, Charles Zeife, is a science journalist.  With great enthusiasm and energy he writes about the history of one of the greatest paradoxes of human thought: Zero.  The first half of the book accounts the origin of number Zero, from its inception in Babylon (500 BC) when it was used as a &quot;placeholder,&quot; a symbol to represent blank space on the abacus.  In India Zero gained importance in the development of alebra, as well as its place in Hindu's religious concept of void.  Zero as a &quot;patent&quot; number came into Western Civilization through Islam and mysticism (kabalists), breaking a long time barrier brought about by Aristotelian cosmology and the Church.<br />The second half becomes more complex as Zero becoms the epicenter in the all-embracing theory of everything.  The amount of topics covered is vast, just to mention a few:  introduction of Zero into geometry with the coordinate system, origin of calculus, controversies between Newton and Leibniz, L'Hospital and Bernoulli, Berkely, introduction of limits, historical question of what constitutes light, formulation of quantum mechanics, uncertainty principle, general relativity, black holes, wormholes, string theory, big-bang cosmology, the question of how the universe will end, the everlastin duality Zero verus infinity...<br />There is merit to Charles Zeife for his clarity and economy in popularizing mathematical concepts, for condensing all this informatiion in a 215-page book.  Depending on the reader's level of knowledge in this subject, or his honest intention to understand what is been said, he might sometimes feel a bit confused because the author &quot;turns corners faster than you can catch.&quot;  If you are determined to go deep, the experience is great, you will literally feel you approach a black hole and your mind bends!<br />On a philosophical level it is gratifying to become aware that mathematics does not run independent of religious beliefs of a culture, and how the concept of nothingness/infinity has revolutionized western thought.  Scientits claim that Zero is the &quot;the most civilized of cardinals,&quot; because it is only needed for &quot;cultivated modes of thought.&quot;  If the reader wishes to further cultivate this concept there is another book on this same topic:  &quot;Robert Kaplan's &quot;The Nothing that Is.!&quot;<br />The paradox is as follows:  &quot;all that scientists know is that cosmos was spawned from nothing and will retun to the nothing from whence it came!&quot;  Sounds nihilistic, but it also reminds us of something we have all heard before:  &quot;for dust you are and to dust you shall return...&quot;	2000-12-16
US	52877960	R332UPR27OCPY1	0827604114	365993274	Doña Gracia of the House of Nasi	Books	4	58	60	N	N	Hageriva (great, brave, and mighty woman)	This is the biography of Dona Gracia, a Jewish woman who lived in the 15th century and whose personality is characterized by intelligence, shrewdness, generosity, and religious devotion.  Born in Spain, she went to Portugal in 1492, following the expulsion of the Jews.  In Portugal she was forcibly converted to Christianity and became one amongst many &quot;New Christians,&quot; &quot;Marranos,&quot; or &quot;Conversos.&quot;  At the age of 18 she married Francisco Mendes, the richest merchant in Lisbon at that time.  Seven years later she became a widow and successfully took over her husband's business.  Determined to reach Turkey where under the protection of the Ottoman Empire she would be able to profess her faith freely, she embarked on a long journey, which took 17 years.  This journey took her to London, Antwerp, Lyon, Venice, Ferrara, Ancona, Ragusa, Salonika and finally Constantinople.  Throughout her perils she proved to be highly courageous and an excellent businesswoman.  She used her wealth and contacts to help Jews escape the Inquisiton, became the self-appointed protector of the conversos, built houses of prayer and teaching, devoted herself to good works, and was know as &quot;the heart of her people.&quot;<br />There are two importnat factors in the history of Dona Gracia:  first, she represents one of the rare examples of fight against repression to the Jews by the use of commercial tactics (the Ancona Boycott), and the first to establish a Jewish colony in Paletine (Tiberias), a self-sustaining settlement for Jews and conversos from an hostile Europe.<br />The author Cecil Roth is a well-known historian.  He clearly demonstrates his admiration for Dona Gracia, his praises are many, and openly admits to the fact that he has not been able to find any historical proof to the contrary.  Despite this embellishment, Dona Gracia remains a distant character, she carries an aura of mystery which contributes to her &quot;divinity.&quot;  Had the Jewish faith room for &quot;canonization&quot; Dona Gracia would certainly be a downright candidate.  Her name stands amongst famous Jewish women, and as her contemporary the author Samuel Usque says, &quot;she is much a heroine as Miriam, Deborah, and Judith.&quot;	2000-12-10
US	52877960	R3NSPVNDBTYTQM	0805205721	173956603	The Memoirs of Gluckel of Hameln	Books	4	22	22	N	N	Historical document	Very few works were written by women during the first five thousand years of Jewish history, even fewer have survived.  &quot;The Memoirs of Gluckel of Hameln&quot; (1646 - 1724) is the only surviving written memoir by a Jewish woman before the nineteen century.  Born in Germany, Gluckel was a dynamic, clever woman.  Belonging to the rich stratus of Jewish Askenazi society, she married a merchant and had 14 children.  Besides being responsible for the upbringing of her children, she was a partner to her husband's business dealings.  After his death she carried on with the business and refused a number of marriage proposals, determined to first marry-off all her children before settling herself into old-age retirement.<br />The memoirs constitute a rich source of information on Jewish society in 17th/18th century Germany.  Glucker's memoirs were not intended for publication, nor was she interested in writing a book of morals.  She does however, include all sorts of ethical messages and religious stories with the purpose of reinforcing her Jewish faith and influencing the conduct of her progeny.  She touches in a variety of subjects providing an overall social, economic, political, and cultural view of her time.  She refers to business dealings, wars, traveling conditions, bankruptcies, marriage proposals and feasts, the plague, and the hysteria brought about by the false messiah Zabbatai Tzvi.<br />More than pleasure reading, this is a historical document, a passing of cultural heritage from one generation to the next.	2000-12-08
US	52877960	R19RWY586HYOHB	0941524876	402086887	The Complete Reiki Handbook: Basic Introduction and Methods of Natural Application: A Complete Guide for Reiki Practice (Shangri-La)	Books	3	13	16	N	N	Another manual...	A consice and clear guideline on Reiki and its applications. There are at this moment over 50 books on the market on this subject.  Walter Lubeck is just one amongst many Reiki practitioners, therefore it is not surprising to find different opinions as to the best method/technique.  With such diversity of opinions, it follows that there is no &quot;complete&quot; handbook.  The author has skipped over historial background, the use of symbolism, and has diverted into divination with the use of the pendulum.  The best way to go is to follow the advice of your Master or anyone who is well into this subject, before picking your choice.	2000-12-05
US	52877960	R5TKF3KMAV5FZ	0195136292	399535438	The Sacred Depths of Nature	Books	5	38	42	N	N	Religious Naturalism	Famous astrophysicist Fred Hoyle once said:  &quot;I have always thought it curious that, while most scientists claim to eschew religion, it actually dominates their thoughts more than it does the clergy.&quot;  Ursula Goodenought is certainly amongst them!  She is an international recognized cell biologist.  Her book &quot;The Sacred Depths of Nature,&quot; is a positive constructive contribution to the dialogue between science and religion, a bridge that brings reason and faith together.  Using a simple (crash course in life sciences), direct style, and beautiful metaphors she explains the origins of live, evolution, sex, sexuality, cosmos, consciousness and death.  Each chapter is divided into two sections:  first, she stretches scientific explanations as far as she can possible go, and then she goes into a metaphysical meditation, into the Mystery of existence.  Mystery is the realm beyond science, the home of emotions, wonder, gratitude, joy and awe, elicited by the beauty of nature, by Mozart's music, by hymns, prayers, and liturgy.  The beauty of Goodenough is that she rejects nihilism, her scientifc mind answers &quot;What,&quot; without bothering to answer &quot;Why!&quot;  She emancipates herself by means of a &quot;covenant with Mystery,&quot; whereby scientific knowledge brings hope and solace.<br />This is indeed a most beautiful approach to both science and metaphysics, an attempt to work in unison in the quest to understand the Mystery.  The mathematical quest to understand infinity parallels mystical attempts to understand God.  There is no claim to supplant existent traditions but a plight for coexistence between science and religion.  Many universities and theological institutions now offer courses interfacing science and religion.  As Stephen Jay (President of AAAS - American Association for the Advancement of Science) said:  &quot;Science and religion should be equal, mutually respecting partners, each the master of its own domain and each domainvital to human life in a different way.&quot;<br />Goodenough touches on the concept of planetary ethic rooted in a universal religion based on scientific knowledge.  It is a utopian concept in a world characterized by significant social and economical differences and where only a tiny minority has access to advanced levels of education.  But merit goes to her, for having brought some light at the end of the tunnel!	2000-12-04
US	52877960	R21D07Q8654JCB	0385720114	977875409	The Map of Love: A Novel	Books	4	34	36	N	N	&quot;Salamu Aleikum&quot; - Peace be upon you	Listed among the entries for the Booker Prize, Soueif's novel &quot;The Map of Love&quot; is a narrative of relationship between Britain and Egypt in the last century and a story of cross-cultural love.  With innovative techniques, the author draws a parallel between the Egypt of early 1900 and the end of the century, carving the present out of the past.  The past is represented by the story of an English woman (Anna Winterbourne) who identifies herself with Egyptian struggle against English occupation and married an Egyptian nationalist (Sharif al-Baroudi).  The present is represented by Isabel (Anna's great granddaughter) who is determined to find the roots of her Egyptian ancestry.<br />Drawing upon different time lines, with interrelationships, and the use of different narrators, Soueif's novel requires an active and attentive reader.  At times excessively romantic and with sugary characters, the author compensates with strong, critical, and biased (understandbly so) politics.  There are no kind words for Zionism, imperialism, colonialism, and fundamentalism.  In her quest to understand Egypt as a nation the author leaves the reader with the underlying notion that things have not changed much during the country's past century.  Despite all the &quot;isms&quot; to be blamed for the country's present state of affairs, internal struggle for power is the epicenter.<br />A passionate, culturally enlightening story, with a beautiful symbolic artifice: the legend of Osiris, Isis, and Horus.<br />&quot;Salamy Aleikum!&quot;  (Peache be upon you)	2000-11-25
US	52877960	R2RB0ZRSHUZ3CQ	0679764062	942529180	The Sleepwalkers	Books	5	114	118	N	N	The Absolute Novel?	Born in Vienna in 1886, Broch is considered one of the great names of 20th Century German literature.  Critics will place him in a pantheon that includes Joyce, Musil, Kafka, Mann, and Proust.  Son of a well-off Jewish textile manufacturer (at an early age he converted to Catholicism), Broch had thirst for high intellect.  Eventually he gave up his academic plans, his future as an industrialist, in pursuit of literature, through which he would deal with ethical questions and realms of experience rejected by the Vienna Circle of logical positivists.  Likewise he devoted his life to the study of mass psychology and politics.<br />&quot;The Sleepwalkers&quot; (published when the author was 40) is a trilogy, a three-dimensional work with one underlying philosophical unit.  The first book, &quot;The Romantic&quot; portrays 19th century realism with von Pasenow as main character, a Prussian aristocrat clinging to ethical values considered outdated.  The second book, &quot;The Anarchist,&quot; portrays the accountant Esch who is in search of a &quot;balance&quot; of values in unstable pre-war Germany.  Both characters will meet in the third book &quot;The Realist,&quot; and will find hope in a fanatical religious sect, which foresees the coming of a Redeemer (fascism, Hitler).  They will be defeated by Huguenau, an army deserter and opportunist, representing the new ethical standards of a society free of values or to put it correctly &quot;with no values.&quot;  There are several parallel plots, a number of alienated characters, and cumbrous symbolism.  To make things a bit more complex and elaborate, there are 16 chapters of poetry, and 10 chapters (Desintegration of Values) of sound and intensive philosophy.<br />According to Broch, &quot;sleepwalkers&quot; refer to a gap between the death of an ethical system and the birth of another, as much as a somnambulist finds himself in a state between sleep and awake.  The novel reflects the disintegration of values in Germany between 1880 and 1920, the psychological distress and disorientation of interwar Germany in which Nazism set its foot.  Broch views the Renaissance as the starting point of disintegration of a unified Christian world into a multifaceted society with no ethical roots.<br />This is a massive piece of literature, one that wil be viewed as lenghthy and boring if the reader is not willing to go beyond the &quot;first layer of the onion peel;&quot;  it requires patience and perseverance.  For any reader who wishes to crack down on Broch's literary work, &quot;Hermann Broch&quot; by Ernestine Schlant is a good suggestion.etween 1880 and 1920, the psychological distress and disorientation of interwar Germany in which Nazism set its foot.  Broch views the Renaissance as the starting point of disintegration of a unified Christian world into a multifaceted society with no ethical roots.<br />This is a massive piece of literature, one that wil be viewed as lenghthy and boring if the reader is not willing to go beyond the &quot;first layer of the onion peel;&quot;  it requires patience and perseverance.  For any reader who wishes to crack down on Broch's literary work, &quot;Hermann Broch&quot; by Ernestine Schlant is a good suggestion.	2000-11-14
US	52877960	R2LE0A8P34VR2H	0684826356	877988641	The Reawakening	Books	4	38	39	N	N	Troubles overcome are good to tell	Published in 1963, &quot;The Reawakening&quot; is a narrative of Primo Levi's tortuous journey back to Turin after liberation from Auschwitz.  In fact, it is a follow-up of &quot;Survival in Auschwitz.&quot;  As stated by Primo Levi, &quot;after Auschwitz, I had an absolute need to write, not only as a moral duty, but as psychological need, to free myself from anguish.&quot;  Out of 650 Italian Jews who journeyed to Auschwitz, with Primo Levi, only 20 left the camp alive.  <br />Levi assumes the calm, sober language of the witness, with no manifested hate and purpose of revenge, devoid of bitterness.  His prose is precise, clear, with no embellishment, lively transmitting his bewilderment of the simple fact that he had survived.<br />The reader cannot help be amazed by the details recorded in Levi's memory, places, names, characters, personalities, it is as though he wrote everything in locus.  His memory was a blessing... but might have also been his tormenter... After a long period of depression, Levi died after falling from a stairwell in his Turin home.  The question will always remain whether it was or not suicide.  Levi, through his writings, symbolizes the triumph of reasoning and humanity over madness and cruelty.	2000-11-14
US	52877960	R1YC6GTD1LMXIN	0060645741	413291647	The Jew in the Lotus: A Poet's Re-Discovery of Jewish Identity in Buddhist India	Books	5	20	21	N	N	Buddhism and Judaism make history!	In 1990 Kamenetz, Marc Lieberman (a Jewish Buddhist - JUBU) and a group of distinguished personalities from the spectrum of Jewish religion (Reconstructionist and Orthodox rabbis, rabbis active in Jewish renewal, and professors of religious studies) went to Dharamsala for a four day meeting with the Dalai Lama.  The latter had made the invitation in order to better understand the Jewish faith and learn the techniques of survival in Diaspora.<br />This book must be viewed from three different perspectives.  First there is the dialogue among the Jews, which clearly points out the discrepancies between the different denominations.  Second, the dialogue between the Jews and Tibetan Lamas and monk with the objective in mind of exchanging information, getting to know each other, pinpointing differences and similarities.  And last, but not least, the interaction between the author and the two sets of dialogues, which will open a new perspective in his life:  rediscovering his Jewishness through mysticism.<br />The participants were able to find areas of common interest such as practice of meditation, visualization, the intensive use of debate and study of ancient texts, the Kabalah as a parallel of Buddhist mysticism, the mandala and the sephirot.  There are also significant differences:  Buddhism does not accept the concept of a Creator, and God is viewed as Trugh, Reality or Emptiness; for Buddhism there is reincarnation, in Judaism it is a one-life-time-experience; Judaism is family-oriented, Buddhism is monastic.<br />The author comes to the realization that modern Judaism has been drained of its ancient spirituality by means of increasing secularism.  Like in any major religion the tension between the &quot;exoteric&quot; (accessible to every practitioner) and the esoteric (restricted to a few members) is taking its toll by depleting the mystical elements embedded in spiritual traditions.  Because of this vacuum present in Judaism a signifant number of Jews have gonein search of further &quot;fulfillment,&quot; finding in Buddhism the roots of Jewish mysticism.<br />The Dalai Lama offers his piece of advice:  &quot;Open the doors and open them wide!&quot;  There is the need to reinforce the importance of revival of Kabalistic mystical teachings and practice of meditation.  The lesson of survival in exile applies both to the troubled individual and the troubled nation.<br />This book is fantastic reading; it makes you wish you had been present at this historical, enlightening meeting.	2000-10-30
US	52877960	R255Z21GBET532	0802134556	976356144	Tzili: The Story of a Life	Books	5	24	24	N	N	Touching fable of survival	&quot;Tzili&quot; is the third novel of Appelfeld.  Born in Rumania, with 8 years of age he escaped the Nazi work camp and managed to survive on his own in the primitive wilds of Ukraine.  At the age of 14 he reached Tel Aviv where he presently resides.  His work echoes Kafka to the extent that it uses the language of the absurd.  He considers himself a dislocated, deported, dispossessed, and uprooted writer.<br />&quot;Tzili&quot; is a powerful narrative of an experience which is too deep to be expressed, where characters are forced to participate in a historical event they are not able to understand.  The war is the background of the story, but it remains an abstract for Tzili and the reader, history becomes a fairy tale.  The author assumes that the reader knows the historical facts, and his purpose is to understand the victim.<br />Tzili is the name of the simplest child of a poor Jewish family, devoid of charm; she is an academic failure and a disgrace for the family.  She remains passive, mute, despite constant punishment and ridicule, absorbing what little she is able to in her religious education.  Abandoned when war breaks out, she has the wisdom to endure a world of cruelty and physical suffering.  Having to face the horror she turns empty and emotionless.  Tzilil finds a lover and father of her child in a refugee by the name of Mark, who is mentally disturbed, an eccentric character among many others.<br />But &quot;Tzili&quot; is not an autobriography, as Appelfeld himself said:  &quot;the reality of the Holocaust surpassed my imagination, if I remained true to the facts, no one would believe me!&quot;  He reinterprets his childhood memories and turns them into a fablelike, dreamlike, nightmarish narrative.  It is certainly a tale that leaves its footprint on the mind of the reader.	2000-10-26
US	52877960	R1QDFQ0U53JVX0	0465069908	288556280	River Out of Eden: A Darwinian View of Life (Science Masters Series)	Books	5	5	20	N	N	Blind religion... crippled science!	Richard Dawkins besides being a fervent preacher of Darwinism is also a militant atheist.  Using Biblical imagery to develop his evolutionary concepts, he promotes Darwinism to inspirational levels substituting traditional creation myths.  For Dawkins there is no room in life for mysticism, theology, philosophy, or metaphysics.  Life is the result of a chemical incident, and it all boils down to DNA.  Living organisms are gene carriers whose purpose in life is to propagate his/her DNA.  We all have fewer ancestors, are much closer cousins, evolution is gradual and not a creative process.  Chemistry is the new &quot;God,&quot; and Darwinism the new creation myth.<br />Whether the reader agrees or not with the above, this book is excellent reading, especially for the laymen.  Debate on the theory of evolution has been going on for quite some time and out of this dilemma some constructive ideas have come out.  Extremists like Dawkins however, will become losers in the long run.  It becomes pointless to carry such a heated debate between &quot;believers,&quot; and &quot;non-believers.&quot;  Why stand for the incompatibility of science and religion?  No matter how much evolutionary theory is stressed, there will always be a &quot;beginning&quot; (Bere'shith), and if this &quot;beginning&quot; is taken from the perspective of &quot;Time,&quot; then the question will always remain of &quot;what,how, and why... before Time!&quot;  It would be wiser to join forces!  Quoting the words of Einstein:  &quot;Science without religion is crippled, religion without science is blind!&quot;	2000-10-26
US	52877960	RTLEIEXMK5F2Y	0380732661	885145717	The Ritual Bath (Decker/Lazarus Novels)	Books	4	9	10	N	N	Good thriller	Faye Kellerman is well known for her thrillers, and &quot;The Ritual Bath&quot; is the first of the Peter Decker/Nina Lazarus series.  This book is both attractive for readers who appreciate the &quot;thriller&quot; as well as for those who are not familiarized with this type of gene.  F.Kellerman elaborates on two parallel plots, the first one being the crime itself (a woman is raped close to the mikvah) and the love relationship between two individuals of different religious background (Rina Lazarus the orthodox Jew and Peter Decker the strong-minded police detective).  The latter plot is more artistically developed and takes precedence over the first one.  The setting is a small Jewish orthodox community on the outskirts of Los Angeles and the meaningful descriptions of orthodox rites are embodied with great moral content.  Well elaborated, main characters with strong structured identities, a most enjoyable reading.	2000-10-19
US	52877960	RE3747KTU7K9P	0060932759	694565872	Daughter of Fortune	Books	2	3	7	N	N	Soap Opera	With this book Isabel Allende has attempted a leap from magical realism (&quot;The House of the Spirits,&quot; &quot;Eva Luna,&quot; &quot;Of Love and Shadows&quot;) into conventional historical drama, unfortunately with a most unsuccessful result.  It does not measure to her previous writings!  Using a wide canvas and multi-ethnic characters, the author goes into the realm of absurdity, of unrealistic twists of plots, boring and inconsistent characters.  Dealing with the old and never-ending &quot;love theme&quot; can only be stretched up to a certain point, otherwise the result becomes a soap opera.  And as much as soap operas are popular, so does this book became popular.  The result is clear: reviews have been extremits, it's either &quot;love it&quot; or &quot;hate it!&quot;  The main character's (Eliza) last words are:  &quot;I am free!&quot;  For some readers it was a relief, but others wanted more... Disappointment for readers of Isabel Allende, disappointment for the choice made by Oprah.	2000-10-19
US	52877960	R1V0MFX8A1AHBS	1558612351	455663709	Apples from the Desert: Selected Stories (The Helen Rose Scheuer Jewish Women's Series)	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Lovely set of short stories	This is a collection of 12 lovely short stories published in Israel between 1986 and 1992.  Savyon Liebrecht is a child of survivors from the Holocaust and like many other children from parents who underwent the same experience, she had to deal with the trauma of the past which most often meant trying to understand and live with the &quot;silence&quot; from her forbears.  Not only is this fact reflected in her stories, but she also addresses the problems in the interaction between Israelis and Arabs, as well as between Israelis themselves.  Her stories reflect the influence of political and social conflicts in daily life and family structure.  The author has a very honest approach to those conflicts, with a direct and simple style, most outstanding for its feministic and humane touch.	2000-10-13
US	52877960	R18EZ87D22T6IM	0141180293	488756102	The Long Voyage (Penguin Twentieth-Century Classics)	Books	5	22	22	N	N	Journey to the unknown	Jorge Semprun was born in Spain but has lived most of his life in France.  At a young age he joined the communist party and while active at the French resistance was captured by the Nazis.  &quot;The Long Voyage&quot; is an autobiographical narrative, concentrating on the author's experience while being transported in a train to Buchenwald.  Contrary to most Holocaust literature, this book is not a compilation of horrors and atrocities, but a stream-of consciousness description of a journey to the unknown, when time has ceased to exist, when &quot;past,&quot; &quot;present,&quot; and &quot;future&quot; all have lost meaning.  This is what makes Semprun's narrative so interesting.  It is not the logical sequence of events that dictates the narrative, but the mind's attempt to understand and, at the same time, escape reality.	2000-10-01
US	52877960	R3UY7SQIJAIFLT	1573220256	842182403	Ethics for the New Millennium	Books	4	9	11	N	N	A Message of Hope	Tenzin Gyatso, the 14th Dalai Lama, is certainly not a literary artist, but he is a brilliant struggler for Peace.  &quot;Ethics for the New Millennium&quot; is one of his many &quot;outcries&quot; for an ethical system which demands a re-evaluation of our society, a setting of new higher goals in which interdependency of everyone's action will lead to a better world.  The task ahead requires discipline, development of spiritual values (love, compassion, generosity, tolerance), and a firm belief in the natural-born goodness of human beings.  It is a message not only to be read but upon which action is demanded, a message much needed in our society and not to be considered utopian.  May the reader enjoy it and share with the writer his hopes for an ethical improvement worldwide.	2000-10-01
US	52877960	R1YLKDXXF15RZU	0156011166	109580155	A Journey to the End of the Millennium - A Novel of the Middle Ages	Books	3	9	13	N	N	Eternal Dualism	Yehoshua is considered by literary critics as the Israeli Faulkner.  His last book is the story of a North African Jewish merchant, Ben attar, who  sets himself on a long journey not only in search of new markets for his  precious African goods but mainly to attempt a return of his nephew,  Abulafia, into the partnerhsip.  The schism took place when Esther-Minna,  wife to Abulafia, becomes aware of the fact that Ben Attar is bigamous.   Historically set in the year 999, the plot represents the cultural clash  between North African Jews (Sephardic) and European Jews (Ashkenazi),  between secular and orthodox.  As a secular Israeli novelist, the author  does not spare his harsh judgement of what he regards as ultra-orthodox  Judaism's idolatry of the law, at the same time projecting the  preocuppations of his own era.  Although the prose is rich, the narrative  is tedious to the extent that the author might attempt to adjust the reader  to a different pace in life, the one prevalent in 999 AC.  Yehoshua is an  innovator in terms of syntax, shows a subtle stain of humor, and  extensively uses hidden metaphors.  He explores human psyche to its depth,  clearly showing that grief and passions cannot be disguised.	2000-08-28
US	52877960	R1547J256OK3G9	0911226184	726694644	Frogs into Princes: Neuro Linguistic Programming	Books	4	12	13	N	N	A Revolution in Cognition?	Published 20 years ago, founder of NLP, this book was edited entirely from  audiotapes of introductory NLP workshops.  Amazing and interesting view on  cognitive behavior and communication.  It is a dramatic new approach to  traditional psychological therapy, a turn around to say the least.  The  imperative is that each individual has the potential for change and that  each and every single piece of behavior has a positive function in some  context.  People process language at the unconscious level, and typically  the counscious mind is the one that knows the least about what's going on  in their behavior.  The mechanics seems rather complex for the reader who  has his first approach to NLP but ther is an abundance of other books  written on this subject which will broaden your possibilities of applying  this technique on a professional or personal level.	2000-08-23
US	52877960	R195G9L8ZEKXB2	0810117061	317144794	The Wandering Jew (European Classics)	Books	5	19	20	N	N	A Fable of moral issues	&quot;The Wandering Jew&quot; is based on an old legend which narrates the tragic life of Ahasverus, condemned to an ever-lasting life of misery,  until the second coming of Christ, for having refused his master Reb Joshua  (Jesus) a resting place when on his way to the Golgotha. It is a  personification of exile and Christian condemnation of the Jewish people.   Stefan Heym has elaborated on this legend giving it a broad philosophical  dimension, with deep moral passion.  Ahasverus is a moral character,  standing between evil and good, with a revolutionary mind and wishing to  understand and improve human condition.  Thre are three parallel, interlock  plots, the main one taking place in Luther's Germany where the Minister  Paul von Eitzen strives holiness through his ministry (disguising his  ambition, greed, and sexual impulses), and at the same time fascinated by  the power of evil.  Although the moral issues brought up are not a novelty,  S. Hyem shows courage and passion in his convictions and invites the reader  to thoughtfully participate in a dramatic show of human nature.  A most  wonderful book!	2000-08-22
US	52877960	R1MXTZXX79N5KA	0374524807	903393873	Shosha: A Novel	Books	4	11	12	N	N	Sex. Torah, and Revolution	&quot;Shosha&quot; is the story of a young writer's (Aaron Greidinger) committed love for a girl by the name of Shosha, from whom he falls in love  at the age of seven.  Althoug Shosha is a backward girl, intellectually  below the level of the writer, he is unable to disregard her and although  pursued by a number of other women, Greindinger returns to Shosha.  It  parallels his struggle to uproot himself from a society that is disrupted  and doomed to die.  To a great extent it is autobiographical, reflecting  the conflict between communist political ideas and the laws of the Torah,  Poland's ghetto life in the 30's, and the author's early struggle as a  writer.  Despite its simplicity in narration, the story is powerful, with a  number of strong characters, with reversal of plots, reminding the fact  that the story was developed to be published as journalist serial.  As  characteristic in all of Singer's writing deep philosophical questions are  brought up, adding spice to a turbulent plot by itself reflecting an era of  dramatic changes.	2000-08-21
US	52877960	R3416RULFMF2FQ	0140188932	574986806	If Not Now, When? (Penguin Twentieth-Century Classics)	Books	5	21	22	N	N	If am not for myself, who will be for me?	&quot;If am not for myself, who will be for me? If am for myself alone, what am I?  If not now, when.&quot;  This is a famous passage of Rabbi Hillel, and they are the appropriate words to use as title for this book.   It is a fictional narrative of a group of Jewish partisans, following their  track from Russia to Italy, along 1943/45.  Without sensationalism,  avoiding detailed descriptions of horror, and using a touch of humor, Primo  Levi describes the hardships of partisans who rebelled against injustice  armed themselves and carried their own personal war against the enemy,  united by a commmon goal to reach Palestine.  Interesting characters are  developed, and a narrative always with tension and emotion.  A Tale of  heroism based on documented records of WWII.  Primo Levi is not evasive  when it comes to his honest thoughts about the enemies (whether Germans,  Russians, or Polish) but his message is one of universal human solidarity.   Beautifully written, with a fantastic human touch.	2000-06-18
US	52877960	R2P2D04TVQYEPU	0140187855	573937082	The Certificate (Penguin Twentieth Century Classics)	Books	4	9	9	N	N	Passionate and sad account	David Bendiger is a penniless young man, willing to make a name for himself as a writer in Warsaw.  But 1922 is a time of turmoil, war, anti-Semitism, the rise of communism, all of which deeply affecting a young  generation that cannot find its place in society.  More so for the Jewish  community, torn itself between tradition and the new rationalism.  David is  a puppet in a  world of chaos, who gets himself carried and involved in the  lives of three women, each one of them with their own dilemma in life.   Like in all his other works, I.B.Singer masters his depiction of human  despair, love, greatness, and despicable existence.	2000-06-13
US	52877960	RVLCWRUIRPOMB	0805211039	38072789	The Monk and the Philosopher: A Father and Son Discuss the Meaning of Life	Books	5	8	9	N	N	East and West get together	This is a dialogue between father and son, father a prominent journalist and philosopher and son a scientist, who renounced his promising career and became a Buddhist monk,it is East and West getting together.  They are two  brilliant minds discussing a wide range of topics with an honest and  unbiased approach, in a very accessible and elucidating style.  Since the  book has been written from a Western perspective and maily for Western  readers, Buddhism is highly questioned and as a result the reader is  presented with an excellent introduction to Buddhism as a religion and  philosophy as well.  The main point here is not a confrontation between  East and West, between Reason and Faith; it is an excellent exchange of  ideas with the purpose of finding what is best from both approaches and  what would best serve future generations.  Excellent, fascinating,  enlightening, highly recommended!	2000-06-10
US	52877960	RIQPXGBL1SNHS	0805211039	38072789	The Monk and the Philosopher: A Father and Son Discuss the Meaning of Life	Books	5	0	1	N	N	East and West get together	This is a dialogue between father and son, father a prominent journalist and philosopher and son a scientist, who renounced his promising career and became a Buddhist monk,it is East and West getting together.  They are two  brilliant minds discussing a wide range of topics with an honest and  unbiased approach, in a very accessible and elucidating style.  Since the  book has been written from a Western perspective and maily for Western  readers, Buddhism is highly questioned and as a result the reader is  presented with an excellent introduction to Buddhism as a religion and  philosophy as well.  The main point here is not a confrontation between  East and West, between Reason and Faith; it is an excellent exchange of  ideas with the purpose of finding what is best from both approaches and  what would best serve future generations.  Excellent, fascinating,  enlightening, highly recommended!	2000-06-10
US	52877960	R3O5DQFWAEQMSO	0140266240	586014954	Literature or Life	Books	4	9	10	N	N	Intellectual catharsis	Jorge Semprun was born in Spain and while studying philosophy in Paris, he was arrested.  Accused of being member of the resistance, he was sent to Buchenwald where he spent 18 months before the camp was liberated.   &quot;Literature or Life&quot; is his account of what it meant to survive  Buchenwald, from the perspective of a highly intellectual mind.  It  represents a desperate search for understandiing the horrors of Evil, using  philosophy and literature as reasoning tools, as well as psychological  justification for survival.  It is literature of the &quot;living  dead!&quot;	2000-05-28
US	52877960	R3CKVWCU9MVED3	0253213517	148581376	Hebrews of the Portuguese Nation: Conversos and Community in Early Modern Amsterdam (The Modern Jewish Experience)	Books	5	5	9	N	N	Adaptation and revival	This is a highly academic work of Miriam Bodian, Associate Professor of History and Jewish Studies at Pennsylvania State University.  With in-depth research, the author analyses a unique chapter in the history of Judaism:  the return of Iberian &quot;conversos&quot; to rabbinical religion and the  establishment of the Jewish community in Amsterdam.  A remarkable account  of the strength and perseverance of a &quot;nation&quot; which clings to  its roots despite all adversities.  This is cultural  &quot;Darwinism...&quot;	2000-05-28
US	52877960	R3F3HKNZP44UPQ	0374416966	670226145	A Day of Pleasure: Stories of a Boy Growing Up in Warsaw	Books	5	24	25	N	N	Grandfather telling stories...	To enjoy listening to stories told by grandfather, you don't necessarily have to be a child!  As a matter of fact, it is a life virtue to enjoy these stories told by Isaac Bashevis Singer, regardless of age.  They are set in the now vanished Hassidic community of pre-II World War, but their  moral content transcends time and space, and although they are soaked in  Jewishness they equally appeal to the open-minded reader.  Beware that out  of the seventeen tales in this editon, 14 are included in &quot;My Father's  Court,&quot; by the same author.	2000-05-09
US	52877960	R2PXPOB2JTNPGX	0963156705	765319782	Reiki: The Healing Touch- First and Second Degree Manual, Revised and Expanded Edition	Books	3	27	31	N	N	Guidelines for a beginner	From the perspective of someone who knew absolutely nothing about &quot;Reiki,&quot; this book adequately serves as a means to get acquainted with the main particularities of this technique.  As the author makes it  clear, the correct and adequate application of the Reiki techniques should  be done under the orientation of a Master, therefore implying that the  reader should not rely exclusively on what is explained in the book  (besides the fact that the necessary symbols have not been given).  The  structure of the book however, serves well as a teaching manual for those  who are already familiar with Reiki and its applications.	2000-05-09
US	52877960	R25J2JFAPP3285	1573226971	110480444	The Far Euphrates	Books	3	1	2	N	N	Brilliant beginning and promising future...	There is something unusual in this book in terms of plot and the idiosyncrasies of the characters involved.  The main character, Aryeh Alexander, is a small boy, intellectually gifted, who is surrounded by  eccentric individuals: a neurotic mother, a loving father obsessed by  Ancient Mesopotamia, a cantor and his sister both victims of the holocaust,  and an ill-fated girl destined to die at an early age.  Aryeh is involved  in the misfortunes of all characters as an outsider, an a spectator.  When  reaching his coming of age, he secluded himself from the rest of the world  in order to settle the confusion in his mind, life, and world.  The author  is master of a clear, beautiful, and poetic prose.  The reader is left with  the impression that this novel might represent the beginning of a future  literary production with an overall more embracng depth and weight.	2000-05-06
US	52877960	R1I5EHI5N3LZP0	0452273846	959432709	Meshugah	Books	4	7	8	N	N	Crazy, crazy...	This is the story of a group of pre-war Yiddish intellectuals transplanted from Warsaw to New York.  The main character, Aaron Greidinger, is a short story and novelist writer as much as I.B.Singer was in real life.  His  friend Max, long thought dead, reappears and introduces his mistress  Miriam.  A love triangle forms, upon which other triangles will be formed  with the introduction of several other characters.  Aaron is attracted to  Miriam and sees her as a symbolism of renewal in life and faith, but as he  discovers the horrible truths behind her faade, he is led to believe the  world will never heal; although he respects God he is unable to love a God  who has shown no mercy upon his creation.  The novel has a philosophical  despairing tone, an overall feeling that indeed the world has gone  &quot;meshugah,&quot; (crazy, crazy)!  This a posthumously novel published  in 1994 and certainly not the best form Isaac Bashevis Singer.	2000-05-06
US	52877960	R2FZUA95C9YM97	0679731210	156485389	The Leopard	Books	5	9	10	N	N	&quot;Things must change if they are to remain the same&quot;	Set at the time of the Risorgimento, this novel depicts the decay of an aristocracy challenged by democracy, liberalism, and the unification of Italy.  The main character, Prince Don Fabrizio, is a stout Sicilian noble, head of a deep-rooted aristocratic family, who foresees the inevitable  changes with skepticism and sees himself as the last representative of an  era condemned to oblivion.  Tancredi, his much-loved nephew, personifies  the new era, and although vested in revolutionary red, openly claims the  great paradox: &quot;things must change if they are to remain the  same!&quot;  This novel is Lampedusas single literary output that was  written when the author was 60 years old.  It is a work of art that nears  perfection, with subtlety of emotions, with so much literary finesse, a  delicacy to be savored.	2000-04-30
US	52877960	RDFS21N4ZDPTK	1886155003	447111074	The Magic Mirror of M. C. Escher (Taschen Series)	Books	4	23	26	N	N	Magic beyond understanding	The work of Escher has captured the imagination of many people and in this book Bruno Ernst (a personal friend of Escher) expands our understanding of the artist.  After a brief but concise biography, the author throughly analyses the most important facets of Escher's artistic output: the  illusion in drawing, the use of perspective, the creation of impossible  realities, simultaneous and contrasting realities, crystals, and the  infinite.  Escher was an artist who was unique in in his work, he stands by  himself, and this book is a helping tool in understanding and appreciating  the unparalleled magic of his work.	2000-04-24
US	52877960	R2WHG5GPOIN0UB	0679768173	597628155	The Kidnapping of Edgardo Mortara	Books	5	17	19	N	N	Forces of intellectual liberalism versus medieval power	This is non-fiction at its best!  David Kertzer deserves our applause for such professional and academic research.  Using his background in anthropology and history, the author revives the all-forgotten story of the abduction by Catholic Church authorities of a 6 years old Jewish boy, in  1858, under the pretense that the child had been secretly baptized.  Church  authorities acted with utter contempt for Edgardo's parents, trusted on the  belief that the boy would receive eternal damnation where he to remain a  Jew.  He was adopted by then Pope PiousIX who nurtured for the boy the  affection of a father.  This rather insignificant event (not unusual at  that time in the Papal States) is given a pivoted historial role in the  soon to come unification of the Italian states, flaming the forces behind  the Risorgimento.  The fact received great publicity at the time mainly due  to the influence of the Rothschilds and Mr. Moses Montefiore.  It's one  more tale of prejudice, of abuse of power, reaching the unconceivable.	2000-04-24
US	52877960	R3P0EJ2XI9160V	0520213300	531208367	The Song of Songs: A New Translation	Books	4	19	19	N	N	Remarkable translation of &quot;The Song of Songs&quot;	Reading &quot;The Song of Songs&quot; directly out of the Bible and reading the work of Ariel and Chana Block is a complete different experience.  The later enriches the first!  An academic approach providing  a first rate translation of &quot;The Song of Songs,&quot; an in depth  study and analysis of the poem itself, will broaden your understanding and  enjoyment of this forever lasting and debated love poem.  Its love  transcending sexual imaginary!	2000-04-17
US	52877960	RQEFWO39CADA2	0140187774	109323311	The Brothers Ashkenazi (Twentieth-Century Classics)	Books	3	23	31	N	N	A break from traditional Yiddish literature	I.J. Singer's work is a large-scale novel, with a multitude of characters and plots, the first attempt of a Yiddish writer to break away from the traditional short fiction depicting life in the shtelt.  It is the result  of exposure to European literature late in the 19th century, and reflects  the dilemma of Jewish milieu torn apart from its traditional roots and  having to face the rise of capitalism and communism.  The main character,  Max Ashkenazi is despicable by all means, obsessed by money and power, with  a Machiavellian mind, and despite all his success has a sad end in life.   Considering the conflicting time in which the novel takes place (first four  decades of the 20th century), the main plot reflects the author's  pessimistic and skeptic view of the place the Jew might have in modern  society:  be it amongst the capitalists or the communists, the Jew will  always be misplaced and will never loose his stigma as scapegoat in times  of trouble.  The reader familiar with wthe work of Joshua's younger brother  (Isaac Bashevis Singer) will certainly realize that the brothers share  little in terms of literary production, each one with his own merits,  albeit I.B. Singer surpasses in magnitude and depth.	2000-04-17
US	52877960	R30F9COBXBHK24	067972575X	27237939	The Tin Drum	Books	4	8	12	N	N	Surrealism in prose	Long, massive, exhaustive narrative of the life of Oscar Matzerath, an eccentric boy who at the age of 3 decides he will no longer grow and &quot;drums&quot; his feelings and passions by means of a drum.  He is not a normal character, but rather a means through which G.Grass, using  extensive obscure symbolism, repulsive fantasies, surrealism and metaphors,  expresses the horrors of German/Polish society during the reign of nazism.   O.Matzerath in fact is bizare, absurd, grotesque, and disturbing.  G.Grass  is a master of skilful prose revealing the poet writer as well, in a  baroque/rococo style which intoxicates the reader.  The book is not  pleasant reading, with schoking passages.  Deceptive in terms of  expectations for a Nobel Prize winner.  If you are willing to endure the  challenge of reading &quot;The Tin Drum,&quot; take your chance!	2000-04-06
US	52877960	R2NEYP5IR2TZ3D	0029115744	149565146	The Jews of Spain: A History of the Sephardic Experience	Books	4	31	36	N	N	Scholarly overview of the history of the Sephardic Jews	With an outstanding narrative, Gerber has been able to compress the history of the Sephardic Jews from the early establishment in the Iberian Peninsula (around 200 BCE) to present date.  This represents a wealth of  information the author had to deal with, understanbly forced to narrow down  on several topics.  The reader will in fact have an amazing overview of the  history of the Sephardic Jews in a single volume.  Highly recommended to  anyone interestd in the history of a people endowed with faith, courage,  and determination to face adversities.	2000-04-04
US	52877960	R23Q5KN29YBKIZ	067972575X	562648892	The Tin Drum	Books	3	4	8	N	N	Surrealism in prose	Long, massive, exhaustive narrative of the life of Oscar Matzerath, an eccentric boy who at the age of 3 decides he will no longer grow and &quot;drums&quot; his feelings and passions by means of a drum.  He is not  a normal character, but rather a means through with G.Grass, using  extensive obscure symbolism, repulsive fantasies, surrealism and metaphors,  expresses the horrors of German/Polish society during the reign of nasism.  O.Matzerath in fact is bizare, absurd, grotesque, and disturbing.  G.Grass  is a master of skilful prose revealing the poet writer as well, in a  baroque/rococo style which intoxicates the reader.  The book is not  pleasant reading, with schoking passages.  Deceptive in terms of  expectations for a Nobel Prize winner.  If you are willing to endure the  challenge of reading  &quot;The Tin Drum,&quot; take your chance!	2000-03-29
US	52877960	R2YY6VXZBQF3KL	0060603402	340694259	The Mezuzah in the Madonna's Foot: Marranos and Other Secret Jews--A Woman Discovers Her Spiritual Heritage	Books	4	7	9	N	N	Mezuzah and Madonna embrace	Strange title, but it makes sense once you read the book.  The author describes her personal journey in search of her Jewish roots, cut off when she left Prague.  As a refugee she remained in Barcelona for two years.   Survivors of nazi persecution who were saved by the lenient attitude of  Spanish authorities at the time of Franco's dictatorship give their  testimony.  Evidence from Jewish international organizations is also given.   The author then narrates the plight for survival of the  &quot;marranos&quot; after the expulsion edict.  Interesting reading, the  author aims at exalting the attitude of Spain and its people.  Further  study and investigation is required, you might ask whether there are no  survivors to narrate the other side of the story.	2000-03-21
US	52877960	R3ICIF1WFGQC8R	0385483457	894410541	Genesis	Books	4	6	7	N	N	Talking about Genesis	A group of contemporary intellectuals, under the leadership of Bill Moyers, gathers to exchange views concerning main issues from the stories of Genesis.  Matters such as creation, Gods relationship to man and  vice-versa, evil, family relations, faith, temptation, murder, and moral  values are discussed among the participants.  It represents a friendly and  inspirational exchange of ideas, with mutual respect for each others  religious background, be it Jewish, Christian, or Muslim.  The book is  based on the televised PBS series which unfortunately I did not have the  opportunity to watch and which certainly must have been quite interesting.   The input given by each participant proves once more that no matter how  much has been written and said about the stories in Genesis, there is  always further room for interpretation and spiritual nourishment.	2000-03-13
US	52877960	R3FDP65379G7G4	1885983158	227428824	Committed to Memory: 100 Best Poems to Memorize	Books	2	19	33	N	N	Training your memory	If the readers intention is to play a game of memory then this selection of poems can play the trick.  But if your expectation is to have a first-rate selection of poems, then this book will run short of your  objective.	2000-02-25
US	52877960	R26WVQ5GP1XOKO	0374424292	947166044	The Fools of Chelm and Their History	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Fools are we all!	It is always a pleasure to read something by I.B.Singer.  Although this short tale is recommended for ages 9-12, it is certainly also addressed to any age beyond.  The tale is a delightful satire of societys political and  ideological systems, in may aspects a short version of George Orwells  &quot;Animal Farm.&quot;	2000-02-24
US	52877960	R1UYKH8Q9BFGD1	0805209956	912102561	Tales of the Hasidim (The Early Masters / The Later Masters)	Books	3	26	31	N	N	A demanding work	This edition of &quot;Tales of the Hasidim&quot; comprises two volumes of Martin Buber's original work; the first one dedicated to the early masters and the second one to the later masters.  It is incredible extensive and exhaustive (there are over 600 tales).  No wonder it took the author 40  years to gather all the tales!  Buber states on the introduction to this  work that the tales included only represents one-tenth of the material in  existence!  This collection of tales is certainly an interesting source of  inspiration for the readers who are embedded in Hassidism or might be a  valuable source of information for those who wish to do research on this  area; otherwise, the reader will most probably not be able to cope with the  magnitude of this worl.  Give some thought to it before making a decision.	2000-02-24
US	52877960	R3CNWCR3M962OD	0684811758	131041255	Because God Loves Stories: An Anthology of Jewish Storytelling	Books	5	12	14	N	N	Because we love stories...	What a joy to read this anthology!  In a world where the media is constantly on our nerves with the ever-going show of human misery, to read this set of stories is a therapy.  It makes you laugh, it makes you wonder,  it brings you closer to God and His creation, it revives a deep-rooted  &quot;jewishness&quot; that we seldom are aware off or have simple  forgotten.  It makes you feel like a child savoring his favorite ice cream:  when it is finished, he cries out for more!	2000-02-15
US	52877960	R1DM8486Q3EMFC	0815604025	393185879	Stories of David Bergelson: Yiddish Short Fiction from Russia (Judaic Traditions in Literature, Music, and Art)	Books	4	8	11	N	N	A different view of the shtetl	This edition of &quot;The Stories of David Bergelson&quot; includes 2 short stories and a novella.  Bergelson is a rather unknown Russian Yiddish writer who was killed at the age of 38 victim of Stalins mass executions.   He is considered sucessor to Yiddish writers such as Peretz, Mendele, and  Sholem Aleichem.  He differentiates from them in many aspects:  he depicted  life at the shtetl when the community was declining, when its member were  loosing their religious ties and had to adapt to a new way of life.   Bergelson writes for an educated audience and not for the poor masses.  In  terms of style his use of words is precise, to the point.  His many  characters have a complex psychological structure, they represent people  who feel lonely, alienated,  confussed, and with a loss of values.	2000-02-09
US	52877960	R2QMB0FG7KYXYY	8420511099	15277869	Tales of the Alhambra (English and Spanish Edition)	Books	3	4	4	N	N	Romanticized version of Alhambra´s history	Whoever has had a chance to visit the Alhambra and its surroundings, may complement the experience by reading this narrative of W.Irving.  The style is elegant and romantic.  Irving is not a historian; he touches on the  history of Alhambra as an impressionist painter, historical research and  realism are not his concern.  There is a series of legends of Moorish lore,  which are quite appealing to the young reader.	2000-02-05
US	52877960	R1XASQN6G36SOS	0374524793	853465556	Satan in Goray: A Novel	Books	5	23	24	N	N	Collective Hysteria	&quot;Satan in Goray&quot; is the first novel written by I.B.Singer and is characterized by its deep emotional and psychological content.  Written at a time of troubles for the Jewish community in Eastern Europe, more specifically in Poland, it draws a parallel between the messianic disaster  of Sabbatai Zevi and revolutionary ecstasies.  In 1666, 18 years after the  infamous Chmelniski massacres, a messianic movement developed in Eastern  Europe, under the leadership of Sabbatai Zevi who proclaimed himself to be  the long-awaited Messiah.  The uncertainties and despair felt by the Jewish  community, a deep-rooted belief in national redemption, and lack of strong  traditional rabbinical leadership, all contributed to the initial success  of messianism.  The story takes place in a remote town by the name of  Goray, and main character, a feeble-minded young woman by the name of  Rechelle, personifies the forces of evil (messianism) taking root amongst  the population and leading to the downfall of its members, bringing total  chaos.  I.B.Singer's story is an epic description of the struggle between  the forces of evil and good, of reason and emotion, of traditional  conservative Judaism and messianism.  The narrative is strong, realistic,  impulsive, almost suffocating; it truly depicts the spirit of collective  hysteria.	2000-01-28
US	52877960	R1X3ZT4JQ8051B	0688163513	527608715	Jewish Humor: What the Best Jewish Jokes Say About the Jews	Books	4	10	10	N	N	Understanding Jewish collective unconscious	More than just a collection of Jewish jokes, this book successfully attempts to dig into the way Jewish humor reflects the idiosyncrasies of the Jewishs mind.  Behind each joke the author searches its roots, the  social and historical context.  Enjoyable, well presented.  It helps if the  reader has a Jewish background, but it is quite accessible to the  open-minded &quot;goyim.&quot;  Have fun!	2000-01-16
US	52877960	R1O6VLPLPDO3XQ	1879045427	611411475	The Earth Is the Lord's: The Inner World of the Jew in Eastern Europe (A Jewish Lights Classic Reprint)	Books	5	12	13	N	N	A Philosophical lesson on Judaism	A short book in size but a great book in content.  It is a description of the spirit of the Jews of Eastern Europe, an exaltation of their culture, their way of life, and above all of the high spiritual development of this  ethnic group.  The author manifests a certain melancholy for days gone by,  for a way of life which he believes no longer exists.  Lets leave to the  present day Hassids to confirm or deny this statement.  Beautiful prose, a  must for anyone interested in learning about the essence of Eastern Europe  Judaism.	2000-01-03
US	52877960	R29R3XEV9H4BMJ	0195035003	406783469	Dry Tears: The Story of a Lost Childhood	Books	4	19	20	N	N	A Lesson on Survival	&quot;Dry Tears&quot; is a memoir of the author during the years she and her family struggled for survival in occupied Poland.  After many attempts to escape Nazi officials, they find shelter in a small town under the  protection of a peasant Polish family, in exchange for financial benefits.   The story is a lesson on faith, of compliance to ever adjusting  circumstances in an environment filled with prejudice and ignorance.  Well  written, with no high literary aspirations, but with a high moral content.   This is a must for adolescents and pre-adolescents, and for anyone who is  not aware of what it really means to face adverse circumstances in life.	2000-01-03
US	52877960	R2I4WS4TQ283UQ	0374503168	930627667	Christ Stopped at Eboli: The Story of a Year	Books	5	60	66	N	N	Southern Italy:  A country within a country	This a memoir of Carlo Levi`s experience as a political exile during the fascist regime, at the outset of the Abyssinian war.  The setting is a remote village in Lucania, southern Italy, a region characterized by poverty, malaria, completely forgotten and neglected by the State.  Levis  artistic sensitivity describes the people, the landscape, with an acute  human feeling.  This is the other side of Italy, the reverse of the rich,  famous, well-developed North.  After reading this book, it is easy to  understand why so many Italians were tempted to emigrate to the American  continent.  Levis ability to socialize and understand the peasant  mentality is outstanding; its a merit to  his personality.  The fact that  he did not isolate himself from the people around the village, regardless  of social and cultural level, enable him, after his realease, to write this  book with a deep understanding of the social, political, religious,  economical, and cultural problems of Southern Italy.  The style is simple,  direct, and elegant.  Why Christ, why Eboli? the author only wants to say  that the &quot;civilized world&quot; of Christianity has not reached this  region of Italy, be it in Eboli or any other village of the South.  An  interesting book, written by someone whose main occupation in life was not  be a writer.  Levi was trained as a doctor, and as a &quot;social  doctor&quot; he brush-stroked his thoughts into this memoir.	1999-12-25
US	52877960	R17A9E53N9WFNF	0451525000	499001932	Bread and Wine (Signet Classics)	Books	5	35	39	N	N	Bread for your body, wine for your soul...	Set in Italy, at the outbreak of the invasion of Africa, at the height of fascism, Silones main character, the communist leader Pietro Spina, disguised as a priest, is confronted with a sad reality:  the large  distance that separates ideological communism and the daily reality of the  &quot;cafoni,&quot; the Italian peasants who have to face the cruel  struggle for survival, their indifference to political rhetoric, their  acceptance of a future with no perspectives, and their reliance on blind  faith.  Spina is the intellectual mind who painfully learns that ideologies  by themselves are not enough, the element of &quot;faith&quot; has to be  present in life.  The narrative has superb discourses, simple in its  language, but with an incredible depth of meaning, there are plenty of  allegories for the attentive reader, the story is a pleasure and a delight,  as much as some good bread and wine!	1999-12-14
US	52877960	R2TMRIZSP3H1PI	068484267X	698161422	Angela's Ashes: A Memoir	Books	3	6	12	N	N	Not a masterpiece, but certainly appealing	So much has been said and written about &quot;Angelas Ashes,&quot; and much more is to come after the movie is released.  Easy and smooth reading, no intellectual effort is required, although some readers are annoyed by  the excess emphasis on poverty (rats, lice, diseases, hunger, dirt, etc.)   The story reflects the cruel reality of poverty, be it in Ireland or in any  other part of the world.  It is all viewed from the perspective of a small  child and his struggle for survival, his awareness of the distortions  between a fanatic Christian environment in which the teachings of love,  sharing, respect, are far from his daily reality.  The story appeals to our  feelings of sorrow for the existence of so much misery in this world, which  explains why the book has been so successful.  A more demanding and  critical reader might find the book lacking in terms of structure, style,  and historical depth; all of these compensated by abundant human feeling.	1999-11-30
US	52877960	R6PSK2QMKB0QO	0140184627	297943237	Babel: Collected Stories (Penguin Classics)	Books	3	11	16	N	N	Tales of a crude reality	Babel's tales are a mirror of his own personal life dilemma staged in a period of Russian history when horror and uncertainty prevailed.  He takes an uncompromising political attitude, sympathizing with and at the same  time describing the horrors of Bolshevism.  This same &quot;duality&quot;  is reflected in his love and admiration for his Jewish upbringing and at  the same time shows a critical approach to a retrograde, out-of-date Jewish  society.  It would not be far from the truth to say that Babels creative  power emanates from this same ambivalence.  To read this collection of his  short stories is certainly not a very pleasant experience (especially the  &quot;Red Cavalry&quot;); there is enough pessimism, horror, and a constant  manifestation of human natures negative side.  It is worth questioning:   is there another side to Babels personality and literary production?  Not  much is known about the author, and when he was arrested some of his  writings were confiscated and to this date never made public.  On this  missing link might rest a better understanding of his work and personality.	1999-11-23
US	52877960	R2C4A23ABT70GD	067144171X	304582332	Souls on Fire: Portraits and Legends of Hasidic Masters	Books	5	31	36	N	N	A journey through Hassidism	Hassidism, its tales, legends, and masters, has always been a source of mystery and confusion.  &quot;Souls on Fire&quot; is a journey through Hassidism.  Traveling from the source and further development of this  unique Jewish religious manifestation is a joy when led by the mind and  sould of Elie Wiesel.  His personal and emotional input, the tales and  legends included throughout the book, and his non-academic but rather  humane approach (a typical Hassid) is the most sincere attempt in trying to  understand and &quot;speak of the unspeakable,&quot; sparkling light into a  religious fervor born out of anguish and despair.  The purpose is not to  agree or understand, but rather to believe.	1999-11-03
US	52877960	R3022CGGCY8BVH	080521013X	237045242	Tales of Mendele the Book Peddler: "Fishke the Lame" and "Benjamin the Third" (Yiddish Classics Series)	Books	4	7	8	N	N	Medieval Jewish life in fiction	This work is certainly a &quot;must&quot; for anyone interested in Jewish fiction.  &quot;Tales of Mendele, the Book Peddler&quot; is a rich source of information about a Jewish life all too often forgotten and neglected,  life amongst the Jewish vagabonds, rascals, the poorest of the poor.  Even  within the scoundrel of society you may find the deepest human feelings and  faith in the values rooted in Jewish tradionts, here represented by the  character Fishke the Lame.  What a lovely character!  The message is clear:   because the Jewish community isolated itself from the rest of the world, a  stigma was created which contributed to a growing prejudice against that  same community. &quot;The Brief Travels of Benjamin the Third&quot; is  indeed brief!  Althogh some critics rightly draw a parallel with  &quot;Quijote and Sancho Panza,&quot; no doubts this novel falls short of  Cervantes classic.  The initial impetus of the work promises a great  journey, but soon it dwindles and the reader is left with the impression  the writer gave up and went about into other matters.  An &quot;unfinished  symphony...&quot;	1999-10-22
US	52877960	R3KUJY6CSJ2PSH	0879516054	348120392	Roots Schmoots: Journeys Among Jews	Books	1	3	14	N	N	Identity crisis	Mr. Jacobson suffers from a deep-rooted identity crisis and his book could be of some use for anyone who is interested in this sort of behavior pattern.  In terms of literary value &quot;Roots Schoots&quot; lacks  intellectual depth.  Mr. Jacobson is full of hate, prejudice, and uses  irony, skepticism, and in many instances disrespect for the values imbedded  in Jewish culture.  He needs to solve his own dilemma first, free himself  from whatever traumas he might have and then repeat his journey with a more  open mind.  Only then will he be able to judge &quot;jewishness!&quot;	1999-10-05
US	52877960	R1MHU6KZOQIXT3	0140177159	747024327	Benevolence and Betrayal: Five Italian Jewish Families Under Fascism	Books	5	15	18	N	N	fascinating and well documented	One of the best books in its category of historicaldocumentation.  The author has deeply research the topic, has beenfaithfull to historical facts with an unbiased approach.	1999-09-25
