US	52872836	R2H16DK4VBSYOX	0393307050	680723399	Master and Commander	Books	5	4	4	N	N	A Reading Adventure	This is the first of the series of books about the adventures of Captain Jack Aubrey of His Majesty's Royal Navy, and his friend Stephen Maturin, a Natural Philosopher (biologist) and ship's surgeon. The story opens in Port Mahon, a British possession in the Mediterranean Sea, at the dawn of the 19th century, when England stands virtually alone in the war against the forces of Napoleon. As the series begins, Lieutenant Jack Aubrey is given his promotion to Master & Commander, and placed in command of a sloop called the Sophie. In his festive mood and urge to celebrate, he encounters in the town a man with whom he had an unpleasant encounter the previous evening, a transient and apparently destitute physician named Stephen Maturin. He invites the near-stranger to celebrate with him. Thus is born an unlikely friendship of two widely disparate individuals that will last their whole lives.    Throughout the story, we learn quite a bit about the characters of Jack and Stephen. Jack is depicted as something of a buffoon on land, but a natural warrior at sea; an amalgamation of the greatest British naval heroes of the time. At times, there almost seem to be two Jack Aubreys: Jack on land, and Jack at sea. On land, Jack is somewhat blustery and full of his own station in life, someone who considers himself far more of an intellectual than he truly is. At sea, he is perfectly in his element, a brilliant tactician and gifted commander. Stephen embodies the spirit of scientific advancement of the time period. Half Irish, half Catalonian, an expatriate of both nations, one isn't sure if he's running from some darker past as he agrees to join Jack in sailing around the Mediterranean to places unknown. His reasons for being in Mahon are somewhat vague, but he claims to have nothing holding him to the area, and so agrees to join Jack in his new command.    But the truly brilliant work here is how O'Brian makes these characters come richly alive on the page. Apart from Jack and Stephen, a host of other characters are introduced to the reader, and we become immersed in the life of the Sophie at sea, learning most of the sailors by name. The characterization of each is unique, and several of them return over the course of the series. In this first volume, Jack forges bonds and finds himself in conflict with various members of those under his command and above him. Most notably he finds himself clashing with James Dillon, his firey Irish first lieutenant who has, unbeknownst to Jack, a history of subversive conflict against England itself.    The vocabulary in the book can be a bit difficult to follow if one is not familiar with Age of Sail terminology. I knew next to nothing about it; couldn't tell you the difference between a lateen and a halyard when I picked up the book, let alone the perils of a leeward shore. But some of these terms and concepts are introduced to the reader through Maturin, who is also totally ignorant of naval matters. As characters on the ship explain various aspects of naval life, the reader becomes familiar with it as well, and it becomes easier to follow as the book goes on. Much of the vocabulary can be figured out from context, or failing that, with the help of a good dictionary. We learn that the rank of Master & Commander is not a true captain, but called captain only by custom and courtesy. Jack's true ambition is to be promoted to Post Captain, the next rank up from where he is, and from there he has only to live long enough and he will become an admiral as those above him die off.    Jack and Stephen share the spotlight as the hero of the story, each for different reasons. Both are drawn in colorful detail, though much of Stephen remains a mystery still by the end of this book. Both are more fully fleshed out in the rest of the series, and become two of the most memorable and detailed characters in modern fiction.    O'Brian's fiction fits seamlessly into the real history of the time, with a few admitted changes made in the chronology of events, as well as the actual ships present in any particular engagement. A small 14-gun sloop-of-war, the fictional Sophie under Captain Aubrey becomes the terror of the Mediterranean, and garners her captain the nickname of \\"Lucky Jack Aubrey.\\" The prose is totally immersive, bringing the reader into the age through language taken directly from the Regency period. The action is brilliantly detailed, making one feel as if they are standing on the deck of the ship in the heat of battle, seeing everything that goes on in a ship-to-ship engagement.    The action is plentiful in this volume of the series, and at times it may seem too episodic. Some of the fights in the book aren't truly instrumental to the story, but there are relatively few of them described in that level of detail. O'Brian got most of his material directly from the records of the official naval archives, and created characters, events, and personal observations from letters and journals surviving from the times. A great deal of research went into these stories, and O'Brian brings them to life for the reader in vivid detail as if giving us a time machine to take us back in person.    A truly enjoyable book in its own right, Master & Commander begins a series that transports the reader back in time, to an age of \\"wooden ships and iron men.\\" Once begun, the series is hard to put down, but at 20 books (plus the unfinished 21st), it represents quite a commitment in one's reading schedule. But with the skill with which O'Brian creates his characters and stories, the books pass all too quickly, always leaving us hungry for more.	2005-10-10
US	52872836	R23BV8MGTFMTVR	1565041992	387599171	The Day I Swapped My Dad for Two Goldfish	Books	4	4	5	N	N	The Day I Read A Whole Children's Book Aloud in the Store...	This book is a whimsical tale about a boy who sets covetous eyes on his friend's goldfish, and after rummaging through all his belongings, finally hits upon the idea of swapping his dad for the goldfish. Though the friend initally doesn't think it's a fair swap (\\"I've got two goldfish, you've only got one dad\\"), he eventually agrees. But when Mom gets home, the boy has to go return the goldfish and get his dad back. Returning the goldfish, he finds his dad has been swapped for something else, and so the boy has to go through the town returning item after item until he eventually gets his dad back. <br /> <br />Though it's dressed up and marketed as a children's book, it's a little long to hold the interest of anyone under 7 or 8, and a little too simple for those over that age, but who aren't old enough to really see the humor in it. But as an adult, I enjoyed the book quite a bit. The illustrations by Dave McKean are delightfully creepy, and the story is just silly enough to remind me how I thought about the barter system when I was a kid. The story is funny, and the ending even funnier. My wife and daughter enjoyed hearing me read the whole thing aloud in the store, and by this merit I was allowed to buy it. The edition that I got has a CD insert with a recording of Mr Gaiman himself reading the story. Though my performance was masterful in the extreme, I have to concede that Neil reads it better than I do, and I've listened to the disc several times since I got it. <br /> <br />If you're reading it aloud to kids, make sure you've got a patient audience first, since it takes a while to get through. But if they'll sit for it, they'll probably enjoy it. I personally loved the illustrations, done in a mixture of media, collages of photograph and hand-drawn images, a staple of McKean's artistic style. Not the typical happy-cartoony children's book drawings. <br /> <br />Though I've gotten mixed responses from the groups of children I've read this to, I enjoy the booka lot, and think that you will, too.	2005-09-30
US	52872836	R1KQSOMM30WX8A	0061020710	181852028	The Color of Magic	Books	3	20	21	N	N	Don't Judge the Series By Its Beginning	The Color of Magic is the first in the extremely long and growing Discworld series. In the first novel, the central character is Rincewind, a failed wizard with a craven nature. Rincewind meets up with the Discworld's first tourist, an insurance salesman named Twoflower from a far-off continent. They pair up because Rincewind seems to be the only person in the city who can speak a common language with Twoflower. Together, they maneuver themselves through various situations, manipulated by the gods who sit above and move them like game pieces in some contest only they understand. And Twoflower's luggage, made of sapient pearwood, loyally follows along with them wherever they go. <br /> <br />Through this premise, they encounter a series of adventures that parody the fantasy genre. They run afoul of a dragonrider enclave, a reference to Anne McCaffrey's Pern series, and a fairly amusing one. There were a few other obvious tributes for veterans of the genre. Bravd and the Weasel were clear references to Fritz Leiber's Fafhrd and the Grey Mouser. Hrun the Barbarian is a standard Conan type. We are introduced to various aspects of the Discworld itself. The physics of the seasons of a flat world with an orbiting sun, and the terminology resulting from its nature, detailed in an early footnote, were interesting. <br /> <br />The problem with the story is that it's just a little ... dull. I did like the book, but not as much as the other Discworld books I've read. I'd read this one years ago, and the disappointment I'd felt in it after hearing so much about Discworld put me off reading any other Discworld books for a long time. But constant raving by the loyal fan base caused me to abandon my misgivings and read more of the seires. And I'm glad I did. But even after rereading the first one with a little more of the series under my belt, I decided it wasn't just a first impression. This is just not as good as some others in the series. The series can't be judged by its beginning. <br /> <br />This story was a little too much of a revolving door of other stories and characters. I'm not that fond of Rincewind, the main character in this one. He's not very interesting, and after a while I found him a little annoying. The tourist character, Twoflower, wasn't really consistent. Throughout most of the book, he's a sort of blissfully ignorant, cheery rube, blundering on protected from harm by his own inability to understand the danger he's in. But at a couple points in the book he becomes uncharacteristically angry or wise. Also the first time he's described, the writer says he has four eyes, but it's not really clear that this is because the person viewing him has never seen eyeglasses before. And also somehow Twoflower at some point becomes able to converse with people besides Rincewind without having a common language. <br /> <br />There are a few good funny lines in the book, but not enough to really say the book was funny cover to cover. There were a couple parts where I did really laugh out loud, but not enough to call this pure comedy. Pratchett is often called the \\"Douglas Adams of Fantasy,\\" but I feel the comparison to Douglas Adams isn't really accurate. The sense of humor is vaguely similar, but The Hitchhiker series had something funny on almost every page, sometimes at the expense of the storytelling, which suffered a little bit with the side-conversations that went nowhere just for the sake of a laugh. For the most part, The Color of Magic was pure parody of the fantasy genre, and the humor is more subtle. Expecting a quotable \\"joke\\" as often as in the Hitchhiker series is bound to lead to a disappointment. <br /> <br />The other Discworld books I've read are better than this. Fortunately, one doesn't need to read all the books sequentially to get the most enjoyment out of the series. Although there are over 30 books already, there are several smaller subseries focusing on various characters. I'll probably skip all the ones thatfocus on Rincewind, but I plan to read several more in the series. If this is the first Discworld book you read, you may also be put off the series, but I assure you, it gets better.	2005-09-27
US	52872836	R3VTO6OBEWS4A6	1929474393	785285564	Way of the Witch	Books	2	3	5	N	N	Poor editing ruins the content	Way of the Witch is a d20 fantasy supplement from the now apparently defunct Citizen Games intended for use with the Dungeons and Dragons 3rd Edition rules. It contains rules for playing a new core class called the Witch, which can be added to any campaign. Unfortunately, most of these rules are hard to implement, because the content is bogged down by poor editing, conflicting rules, a muddled magic system, and somewhat overpowered abilities. Which is a shame, because there are some interesting ideas in here. The book had promise, and with a little rewriting, this could be an excellent supplement.    There is a fair amount of fiction to go along with the game rules, demonstrating the behavior and outlook of witches. The witch class is loosely based on a high-powered romanticized version of the modern Wiccan. Witches derive their power from their deity, whether it be the goddess and god, or the dark goddess Ca'di-us. The Witch is a divine spellcasting class similar to the cleric, although the way the Witch casts spells is more like a sorcerer, with a limited number of known spells, any of which can be called upon a certian number of times per day. In this regard, it is similar to the Favored Soul from other books. There are also 5 prestige classes, a number of skills and feats, and quite a few new rules. The book ends with some good adventure ideas and sample characters to help make it easier to add the content to your campaign.    The abilities of witches resemble some usually associated with the arcane spellcaster classes. For example, witches may acquire familiars. But witch familiars are different from sorcerer/wizard familiars in many ways. And witches may take feats to allow them to have multiple familiars, and the familiars acquire feats themselves in the course of the witch's progression. As a result, a witch's familiar is versatile and customizeable.    The prestige classes are all more narrowly defined witch classes. These include the evil black witch, thedruid-like brown witch, the healing white witches, and the gray witches who preside in judgement over the others, as well as the vitke, guardians of the coven. Most of the levels of each prestige classes grant the character a special ability tailored to the theme of that witch's purpose. Each of these prestige classes requires spellcasting ability as a witch, and each one also grants additional spellcasting levels in the same. Although the Vitke allows the witch taking the class to choose between advancing in spellcasting as a witch or as a psion, an interesting option, although one that doesn't seem to make a lot of sense. It's almost as if the Vitke were two prestige classes, because the player has to choose which spell path to progress in, and once chosen, the path cannot be altered. The Vitke is also perhaps the most overpowered class I've ever seen in a supplement, gaining attack bonus as a fighter and +1 spellcasting level per vitke level, as well as two good saves and a special ability at each level but two. The other prestige classes are powerful, but the witch spell list doesn't have a lot of damaging spells, so they're not likely to dominate combat. In fact, most of the witch classes' special abilities and spells are geared to noncombat situations.    The new feats and spells are interesting, though in some cases perhaps a bit too powerful. Most of them assume the character has witch levels, and are written accordingly, although the prerequisites may or may not include witch levels. This is where the writers' lack of understanding of the d20 system really starts to show. The way these feats are written, anyone can take them, but the effect of the feats are specifically oriented to the witch classes, such as the Multiple Familiars feat, or the Familiar Fortitude feat, which starts, \\"unlike a wizard or sorcerer,\\" yet has no prerequisite that would prevent a wizard or sorcerer from taking it. Still, with a little home-editing, these feats can be salvaged.Where the book really falls apart is the confusing and multifaceted magic system for witches. The rules in this text describe four entirely separate systems of magic that witches employ. In addition to their normal spell progression as spellcasters, the witch also acquires a separate spell list that they can cast starting at fifth level, called \\"Circle Magic.\\" This grants them a spell list separate from their regular spell progression. And there is also yet another system of magic called \\"Candle Magic\\" which is a little hard to understand. The candle spells appear on the regular spell list, but there is a feat that allows the creation of the magical candles that power the Candle Magic, so it's not really clear if any witch can take those spells, or if one must possess the feat to use them. If the former, why take the feat, and if the latter, why do the spells appear on the list? And as if those systems weren't enough, the book adds Rituals, a form of casting using a skill-check.    This sort of carelessness tarnishes the finished product nearly to uselessness. It introduces a skill called Knowledge (witchcraft), but then makes reference several times to abilities being used with a Knowledge (witchlore) check. The book also introduces a skill called \\"Conceal\\" which it doesn't use as a class skill for any classes. The Black Witch level chart and the accompanying text conflict in the names of the abilities and when they are gained... errors like this abound.    It's a shame Citizen Games no longer seems to be around, because with a properly thought out errata document, or an update to the D&D 3.5 rule system, the material here could be a nice addition to any campaign. I can't recommend it without the caveat that it would require a bit of adaptation.	2005-06-11
US	52872836	R3O531D08LNPWK	0743412346	209608496	Sir Apropos of Nothing	Books	3	4	4	N	N	A Tragicomic Antihero	I'd give this book three and a half stars if I could, but I can't quite justify a fourth star. It was very good in parts, and the idea of making a hero of the wry comic relief stock character was a good concept. But the book suffers from a bit of a cumbersome back story and a tendency to overstate the obvious. I did like the book, but I wouldn't follow this character's adventures through more than a couple books. If this is an open-ended series, I wouldn't pick up the next book. As of this review, there are three books in the series. If it's going to stop at 3, I might finish them. Time will tell.<br />It starts out with a genuinely funny situation in which Apropos is holding the sword that is protruding from the chest of a knight. Unfortunately, once out of that situation, the author launches into the origin story of how Apropos arrived in that situation - which lasts over 200 dull and somewhat depressing pages. If you can persevere past page 300, you might find the story entertaining after all. If the story were about 250 pages shorter, it would be a lot better, and a lot of that extra bulk could be taken out of this origin story.<br />The story is told from the perspective of Apropos, who is the product of the gang-rape of a tavern wench by a group of visiting knights. After the rape, she feels she has nothing left to lose and so continues to support herself by becoming a prostitute at that tavern. After Apropos is forced to leave home (is it a spoiler to tell something that has happened before page 1, but isn't told until page 200?) he goes to the court of King Runcible of Isteria to right some wrongs that were done to him, and instead becomes a squire to the doddering old Sir Umbrage. After he is sent on a mission to retrieve the Princess, who has spent the last several years being schooled in a far-off convent, his adventure truly begins. In his origin and early adventures, Apropos is a thoroughly contemptible character, very self-centered and cowardly. However many of the things he does out of greed or cowardice end up working out better than the heroic options might have. Later on in the story, he grows a little bit, which in a way spoils his appeal. His unheroic methods defined the character, and to see the resolution of the book hinge on his learned selflessness is a bit of a disappointment.<br />The main problem with this book is the same as with most of the fantasy I've seen labeled as comical satire or humor. With very few exceptions, the genre fails on the same point - it just isn't that funny all the way through. And given the comical nature of the title, along with the description on the back of the book, a lot of the book is far too serious. There are long stretches where it reads just like any other adventure novel. There are numerous puns populating the world of Apropos. Some of the puns are passable, but some are heavily strained, like the 3-page back-story to arrive at the pun-based name of the group of male harpies - the Harpers Bizarre. There are a number of very funny parts of this book, but they're rather scattered.<br />The writing itself is not as good as it could be. While parts of the dialogue are brilliant, there is a tendency to overstate a point in narration, needlessly complicating the prose. Almost every page for the first 400, I found a paragraph that, were I Peter David's editor, would have picked apart as shamelessly overwritten. David also has a tendency to overuse certain words. I counted about a dozen too many uses of the word &quot;formidable&quot; in various contexts in the first chapter alone. Almost as many &quot;endeavor&quot; abuses in later chapters.<br />So, other than the fact that it's too long, this is not a bad book. Not a must-read by any means, but not without its merits. It sets up the history and adventures of Sir Apropos of Nothing, with just enough comedy to keep it from turning into a serious attempt at heroic fantasy. The next books probably wouldn't be encumbered bythe need to take 12 chapters out of the narration to set up the characters. Most of where it falls down is in the writing, with the writer taking three sentences to say what the reader already knows from one. It could have gone through a couple more re-writes before seeing print.	2004-05-08
US	52872836	R138GD9X1YATAE	0061092177	497629870	Small Gods	Books	5	11	12	N	N	And You Thought Religious Fundamentalism Wasn't Funny	I would say that this book makes a satirical strike against Organized Religion as an institution, but it pretty much goes after the disorganized ones as well, and takes a potshot or two at atheism and general philosophy along the way. The book is set in Pratchett's Discworld series, but you don't really need any background in Discworld other than to know the concept. There is no continuity to worry about and recognizing the cameos by recurring characters (Dibbler as Dblah, for example, or the orangutan librarian) is not necessary to enjoying the book. I'd only read a couple other Discworld books, and I got along fine. This is a different set of characters, a different part of the world, and a different kind of story from the typical Discworld fare.<br />The mechanics of divinity presented here are not new. The story relies on the idea that a god's power derives from strength of belief - the more believers, the more powerful the god. Every so often, a god returns to the Discworld to appoint a new prophet and renew his faith among the masses, maybe make a few updates to his holy writings. Om is a god with millions of worshippers, so when he comes to the Discworld to choose a prophet, he is surprised to find himself incarnated into the form of a small one-eyed tortoise. That's because while he has millions of people dedicated to the worship of Om, he only has one true believer. That believer, a young man named Brutha, is a simple novice with a unique talent - perfect memory - so that while he can't read or write, he has all the books of the church of Om committed to memory.<br />The division is drawn between the belief in a god and the following of a religion. While Om once had millions of believers, which made him strong among gods, and his people conquered nations in his name, they have since forgotten what their belief was for and instead came to believe in the symbols of the church, and the mundane trappings and figures of authority have supplanted the connection to the divine. This is the world that Brutha exists in. An oppressive theocracy dedicated to the worship of Om dominates the hearts and minds of the people. The ruthless Quisition exists to enforce the proper methods of worship, and to ferret out and remove any traces of heresy from the populace. The dreaded Deacon Vorbis leads the Quisition, and intends to set himself up as the next prophet of Om. Although Vorbis doesn't actually hear the voice of his god, he finds that declaring himself the prophet will make such a step irrelevant. And nobody but Brutha knows that the god Om has returned, albeit as a small reptile, and that Brutha hears his voice. And Brutha thinks the turtle might be lying.<br />The story is told in a witty, ironic, wry narrative style that never fails to elicit a smile or a chuckle from the reader. There may be occasional laugh-out-loud funny moments, their presence and frequency depending on your own inclination to laugh out loud. But there are also a great many moments of deeper examination, where the author examines the nature of belief, worship, and truth itself. This is the boldest move for Pratchett in this book. Pratchett examines several aspects of religion, and it's clear that when he's talking about human nature and religion in his fantasy world, he's really talking about our world. And he doesn't shy away from holding unpleasant aspects of these topics under scrutiny. He manages to be critical without being judgmental, and such a critical eye might make some readers uncomfortable, but I can see just as well how  it could help others reaffirm their own faith in what they believe.<br />The parts of the book that focus on the minor characters of Simony and Urn are a little dull, and probably unnecessary. Pratchett almost gets sidetracked with this subplot consisting mostly of commentary on war and the arms race. Since this plot seems to spring out of nowhere fairly late in the story, it serves to distract from the characters that the reader has become attached to. I recommend the reader skim lightly over these parts and return to the main story as soon as possible. If Pratchett felt like making another commentary about war in addition to the one about religion, he probably ought to have made it in a separate book, rather than bundle it into this one.<br />Fortunately, the book's flaws are relatively minor, and easily overlooked. I wouldn't hesitate to recommend this to anyone who enjoys a little wit and humor, and can see the funny side of religious fundamentalism.	2004-04-24
US	52872836	R2U1AL81EZGSBG	0765342987	615549012	Kushiel's Dart	Books	5	635	654	N	N	An Unexpected Pleasure	I have to say I had really low expectations going into this book. I bought it to read to my wife, who has a vision disability, but loves the fantasy genre, and there is very little serious romantic fantasy out there, even less available on audiotape. I reluctantly chose this one, figuring I'd suffer through it for her entertainment. From the premise of the book, described on the back cover, I expected it to be a practically endless sequence of raunchy sadomasochistic sexual encounters weakly tied together by a paper-thin plot. Can you blame me? Here's what it says of the main character: \\"chosen [by some divine power] to forever experience pleasure and pain as one.... trained equally in the courtly arts and the talents of the bed-chamber...\\" How could that possibly have prepared me for the depth and skill of storytelling I was in for by reading this book?<BR><BR>We hear the story as told by Phdre, who bears the mark of \\"Kushiel's Dart,\\" as the scarlet mote in her eye is referred to. This first volume in the trilogy starts with her humble beginnings as the \\"unwanted get\\" of a woman of little social consequence, her indenture into the Court of Night-Blooming Flowers, and her rise into the highest social circles of the city. That's merely the first act. The trilogy is set in an alternate history of Europe, where the principal difference seems to be that in this novel, the French may actually be justified in their claim to divinity. The story's main location is geographically analogous to our world's France, but in Phdre's world, it is called Terre D'Ange (Land of Angels), because the inhabitants (D'Angelines) are descended from divine beings who left the holy land over a thousand years previously. The religion is explained early on in the story, and is close to, but not quite, real-world Christianity. The story takes place some time in the late middle ages or the early Renaissance. Carey uses real-world societies from various time periods to model her world upon. Thenames of the nations are changed to older, variations on, or more obscure references to those regions they describe. Spain is Aragonia, for example, England is Alba, and so on. <BR><BR>The stage thus set, Carey proceeds to weave an intricate story of politics, love, betrayal, and adventure. One of the strongest points to recommend this story is the cast of characters. The many political figures who take a role in the story are all well-developed characters, each illustrated in great detail in the story, each with their own multifaceted personalities, desires, merits, flaws, and distinctive habits. There are erotic episodes, as the summary implies, but they are woven into the story so seamlessly, and in fact essential to the plot, so that to dismiss this book as merely common erotica is selling it far too short. To begin with the concept of a main character whose uniqueness is based in the erotic, and to build such a full and complicated story, Carey shows a skill with the written word rarely seen in fantasy today, and in fact in most genres of literature. <BR><BR>No work of fiction is perfect. This book was not without its flaws or idiosyncrasies. Many of the reviews here complain about the overly flowery speech, indicating that the telling detracts from the tale. It depends a bit on personal taste, but I didn't think that the narration style was too far over the top, and it was entirely consistent. What did become tiresome in this first volume is that the \\"voice\\" of the narration is as if these events happened long ago in Phdre's life, and she is telling this as if looking back through the years. The consequence of this motif is that the first 400 pages are rife with this one clich that began to get frustratingly repetitive. She is constantly saying something to the effect of, \\"...if only I had known then what I know now...\\" It did lend a foreshadowing of tragedy to the telling, but was used much too often. Fortunately she lays off that clich about halfway through the book, and while it does rear its head occasionally after that, it is nowhere near as pervasive. <BR><BR>So much happens in this one book that it would use more words than I'm allotted to describe all the various plots, subplots, and cliffhangers and give my opinion of each. We are treated to vibrant descriptions of many of the locales of Phdre's world, traveling through D'Angeline cities, barbarian villages, rough wilderness, high seas, and palace halls. Phdre finds and loses friends along the way and each one she comes to know, we know through her. Her enemies, as well, we come to know, and find that they are not the typical cardboard cutout villains that one typically finds in tales of love and magic. These villains have motivations that one could even sympathize with under the right conditions, and this use of moral shades of gray heightens the complexity of the work as a whole. The 900 pages pass in the blink of an eye, and I couldn't tell you the number of times I finished reading a chapter aloud, and my wife and I looked at each other and could say nothing more than \\"Wow.\\" <BR><BR>One of the writer blurbs on one volume of this series says that the trilogy has \\"something for everyone,\\" and I think that's the best description I've heard yet. Complicated political plots within plots, a multilayered back story that could support a novel or two of its own, fantastic swordfights, massive army battles, erotic sex scenes, fascinating personal relationships... I could go on. I consider this book one of the nicest surprises I've had in a while, in that it was a totally unexpected enjoyment. After reading the entire trilogy aloud to my wife, we look forward to anything else Jacqueline Carey publishes in the future.	2004-02-28
US	52872836	R3MU60ENWTUKKV	0316666343	784206304	The Lovely Bones	Books	2	153	181	N	N	This is a best-seller?	I've heard this book mentioned a lot in press and conversation and everything I'd heard about it was good. The concept of a murdered girl watching her family on earth deal with her death intrigued me. When I finally got to reading it, it was an incredible disappointment. The writer handles death by skipping lightly from subject to subject, going off on tangents in the form of flashbacks as events in the grieving family's life reminds the dead narration character of something from her childhood.<BR><BR>Susie Salmon, the narrator, is murdered by a neighborhood serial killer, and that's where her story begins. The book starts off well enough, with realistic reactions of friends and family. The characters are depicted in varying degrees of detail. Those characters outside the immediate family are largely variations on stock characters, such as the grizzled veteran cop, the playgirl grandma, even the reclusive serial killer. In life, misfit Ruth barely knew the girl, but becomes Susie's best friend after death, which I found a bit odd. The fact that Susie's mother is developed as a character only by minor hints and glances is probably the most artful thing the writer attempted to do in this short novel, and a good effort, but in the end, we still don't know her as well as we ought to. Susie's father is the most graphic representation of grief as he holds on to Susie's memory long after everyone else has moved on. The characters in what Susie calls \\"my Heaven\\" are barely described at all. But details that seem meaningful are handed out, such as Holly, her roommate, taking her name from \\"Breakfast at Tiffany's\\" - we're never told why or what her real name was.<BR><BR>The flow of time is difficult to follow in this novel, because while Susie is observing life on earth after her death, she frequently gets sidetracked in flashbacks of her early childhood. While this could be a constructive method of telling her life story in a series of flashbacks, they are instead deliveredin no particular order and with no unifying theme. The only thing they all have in common is the saccharine-sweet heart-yank that comes from a kid story. Perhaps this is how the author wished to show sentimentality, but all it left me with was a brief description of a family photo album. These scenes went by too fast and randomly for the reader to get attached to any of them. In non-flashback flow, the author lingers too long in the immediate aftermath of Susie's murder. It seems we're shown every day until a certain point, and then we're rushed about 10 years down the road.<BR><BR>The Deus Ex Machina ending for the killer was a bit of a laugh. The plotline was given all along of the tightrope he walked between discovery and concealment. After all the near misses and the evidence being grabbed by Lindsey, all of it came to nothing as the other characters kept just missing him, and none of it was ever resolved. I realize that a major theme of the book was that evil isn't always punished, but in such a case, why let the reader know who did it? Why construe events so that everyone but the cops know who did it? The recurrence of the killer as a character allowed some building of suspense, but with no payoff, the suspense is wasted.<BR><BR>Oh, and the bit about the elbow. Her chopped her up and put her in a bag. But a neighborhood dog found Susie's elbow. I'm wondering how he chopped her so that there was an ELBOW just ready to drop off the bag. Was it a flap of skin from her elbow? The lower part of the humerus with the upper parts of the ulna and radius attached? Why would he make that a separate part? And say it out loud. Elbow. There's something intrinsically silly about it. How are we supposed to feel any of the gravity of the situation when the dog finds an ELBOW? Another thing that rang false was that after so many times Susie tried to contact the world of the living, she is through some unexplained means able to take over the body of her friend-after-death Ruth.And rather than call the police, and tell them where her body is, tell them the story of the murder, she just uses this opportunity to have sex, and nothing more.<BR><BR>Though this isn't truly awful, I can't understand what makes it a bestseller. The writing is mediocre, the story is sappy and too sugar-sweet to be belived at times. In the end, I felt that the book could have been good, and parts of it were fairly decent. But what could have been an interesting study in grief and resolution ended up being a cursory flight down memory lane.	2003-08-04
US	52872836	RD5OHJ1BQMAG5	1891153560	186436552	Liber Beastarius (Eden Odyssey D20)	Books	5	13	13	N	N	What Monster Books Should Be	This hardcover book is a collection of monsters for the D&D 3rd Edition game. Done under the d20 Open Gaming License, this is a small company product presenting the gamer with a small assortment of creatures to use in the game. Though it has a few minor flaws of it own, it excells as a supplement to a D&D game, and in many respects excedes the quality of the monster supplements released by the larger companies.<BR><BR>This book introduces 61 new monsters, drawing on all types and sizes. They range in Challenge Rating (CR) from 1/4 to 18, with a fair distribution up to CR 13, and one or two of each CR up to 18, and the largest number of creatures falling into CR 3. The introduction to the book claims that the CRs are probably lower than other game supplement producers might rate them, but I've found that Challenge Ratings are largely arbitrary among the other supplements anyway. This product seems to have given a bit more thought into the ratings than Wizards might.<BR><BR>The descriptions of the monsters include more depth than any other product I've seen. In addition to the brief descriptions and standard combat abilities, each monster page includes a section on PC Suitability, ranging from \\"High. This is a PC race\\" to \\"Zero. GMs who allow [this monster as a PC] are insane.\\" If a race has any PC suitability at all, they are given a level equivalent in the stats block. <BR><BR>Another new section in this book is the \\"Usage\\" section, which presents a few ideas, or \\"hooks,\\" on how to introduce this creature to your campaign. Every single monster is presented on two more more pages, with a fair number taking up 3 or 4 pages of good solid game and campaign information. Though the illustrations are all black and white, they are all very high quality artwork.<BR><BR>An additional feature of this book is the \\"Bada--\\" sections in the description of a few of the PC races. This section gives a named individual of the race described, given levels in PC classes, generally brought up to a CR of 11-13, compelte with an illustration of the character. The stats of such creatures are fairly high, unlike some of the high-level monsters and creatures included in more popular products, which in my campaign approaches the stat level of the PCs. Finally, a game company that knows that the players are not average characters! I like this book.<BR><BR>Those flaws I mentioned are ever so minor. For one thing, the book is too small. The 61 new monsters here left me hungry for more. I want to see more stuff from these guys. Also, some of the monster abilities don't strictly conform to the d20 formulaic approach to special abilities, which means little, since all the other independent d20 products I've seen have similar quirks. Another minor problem I had was that I couldn't reconcile the CR given for some of the \\"bada--\\" character examples with the level equivalent given for the race. Minor editing flaw or printer's typo, or just a different method of calculation. Whichever, it barely detracts from the quality of the product.<BR><BR>After the monster descriptions is an appendix section which, in addition to listing monsters by type, size, and CR, also gives a brief overview of a possible campaign setting. In this section is a short description of several areas of a campaign world which DMs might take inspiration from to set their game in. This section is unfortunately, but necessarily, brief. Though this campaign information is included, the makers of this book assert that these monsters can be fit into nearly any existing campaign as they are. Also in the appendix are two new feats and a listing of the Monster Summoning level of the outsiders included in the book (\\"You must be this tall to summon this monster\\"). Useful information that could easily be fit into most any campaign.<BR><BR>In the deluge of d20 products available under the Open Gaming License, it's hard to tell which products are good, and which are a waste of money. If you're looking for awell-presented high-quality collection of challenging and original monsters, Liber Bestarius does not disappoint.	2003-06-16
US	52872836	R3H27SLQP7M3DT	0812545206	737885864	Between the Rivers	Books	3	5	6	N	N	Slow Going	Between the Rivers is the story of Sharur, son of a master trader from a city called Gibil, in a semi-fantastical Mesopotamia at the dawn of civilization. The premise of the book is that each city-state has its own patron god, who interacts directly with the people of the city. The god controls and affects the daily life of every individual person in his city and the outlying area, and as a result, the people of each city-state are dull-witted and dependent, relying on their god to make decisions for them. In recent generations, Engibil, the god of the city of Gibil, has grown lazy, and has allowed his people to think for themselves. The result has been a slow increase in technological advancement. The people of Gibil have discovered how to make bronze, and how to keep records that live longer than a man's memory - the secret of writing.<BR><br />As the novel begins, Sharur is beginning to lead a trade expedition outside the land between the rivers. He meets with unexpected resistance, and his caravan fails to make a profit. The reason for this initally seems to be that the gods of other lands have decided that the people of Gibil carry dangerous ideas and thoughts, which might cause the foreign gods' own people to leave them behind. However, as we find out later, and which comes off as a hastily rewritten premise by the author, the real reason is that a divine artifact has been unwittingly taken from these foreign gods into Gibil.<BR><br />At the time of this story, writing had been invented only a couple generations ago. I recall reading in my history textbooks that most of the cuneiform writing that has been discovered has been trading invoices and inventories, and that's exactly how Turtledove has his characters using it. As a son of a master trader, Shurur keeps track of customers' debts and counts trade inventory. Other aspects of early Bronze-age life is depicted in the story. Turtledove writes about marriage customs, slave-keeping practices, and day-to-day activities of the inhabitants of this ancient city. I enjoyed the descriptions of life in the city, as well as the battle between the two nations as the gods came out to fight alongside their people.<BR><br />The novel was interesting as a scenario of the dawn of civilization. However, the story moved along very slowly. The failed trade expedition took up about a quarter of the book, and was heavily redundant in places. Also if this is supposed to be Mesopotamia, a map of the cities under the names Turtledove gives would have been nice. If it's a non-earth fantasy-world, it would have been nice to have that confirmed with a map. None of the city names bear a resemblance to any places I'd known, so it didn't really matter if the story was set in Mesopotamia, or ancient Indiana. Another thing that took away from the story was that much of the plot hinges on Sharur's ability to trick the gods, and this seems to me to be a little too easy for him.<BR><br />Though there is much about the premise to recommend the novel, it was a bit too slow for me. It's not that there's no action, because there is. It just seems like a formality to the story. Turtledove had a good concept for the setting, but could have developed a better story to set in it.	2003-05-12
US	52872836	R11PC2XCR06QLM	1588468089	323677167	Champions of the Scarred Lands	Books	3	4	4	N	N	A Mixed Bag with Limited Appeal	This collection of short stories serves as a decent introduction to the Scarred Lands setting. The Scarred Lands, more properly called Scarn, is the Sword and Sorcery company's Dungeons and Dragons campaign world. For those wishing to run or participate in a D&D game set in the Scarred Lands, this is a decent introduction to the world. Other gamers curious about Scarn may find it useful as well. Unfortunately, I can't really imagine it having strong appeal to anyone outside that rather limited group. The stories themselves are a mixed bag, in terms of subject matter and quality.<BR><br />The stories, in order, are:<BR><BR>IN SUNLIGHT AND SHADOW - The story of a Paladin of the city of Mithril. Though hampered by mediocre writing, it portrays well enough the role of the clergy in that city.<BR><BR>JOURNEY TO THE PAST - This one is just godawful. Skip it. Horrible writing, no sense of a real story... the characters travel, then they fight. Then they travel some more, then they fight. It wasn't really a story so much as a description of a D&D session. Some things happened and then they stopped.<BR><BR>FEAST OR FAMINE AT BUROK TORN - This was the first one I really liked, though given the previous two, that wasn't saying a lot. Still, it's a pretty good story about the Dwarves in the city named in the title, and the desperate straits their society is in. Good story pacing and sympathetic characters.<BR><BR>THREE DREAMS OF BELSAMETH - The writing in this one is much better than many of the others, and the story is a good one. I believe this story is setting up the first trilogy of novels set in the Scarred Lands. It's not too hard to overlook the fact that the elves in this story have heat vision (Elves in 3rd Edition D&D have \\"low light\\" vision, even in the Scarred Lands). The priest is an interesting character with a major ethical dilemma. I'd be interested to see if this carries through in the trilogy.<BR><BR>MERRIN'S TALE - Although the writing is good in this one, the story is a little simple. It's a simple encounter where one character has to face a monster and live to tell the tale. Though it's not bad itself, it doesn't really tell us anything about the Scarred Lands, and could as well have been set in Greyhawk for all it matters.<BR><BR>A GAME OF SILK AND MIRRORS - This is an intriguing story. The concept of the mirrors and the secret meetings made me curious as to just why this kind of magic existed. Who were these people? Who was the good guy here? This one could have been longer to explain these things. The punchline is amusing. Don't skip ahead.<BR><BR>LOVE INCARNATE - Not bad, but not great. If the author is the same Stewart Wieck who was one of the key developers of the Mage game, then this is the first of the authors I'd heard of. The story left me wondering too much at the end. In that way, it was a little flawed, but to name the flaws would be to give away the story, so I won't. One thing that the author forgot is that Druids don't leave a trail in wilderness.<BR><BR>TIE YOUR OWN ROPE - A rescue story with a twist, involving the ratmen Slitheren (no relation to the homophonic house in the Harry Potter books). A little on the dull side, but amusing.<BR><BR>THE RIVER'S FLOW - This story is about an old, powerful Druid who has soured on humanity, detesting the way it forces its way against nature. A decent character exploration.<BR><BR>THIEF'S MARK - A story of a brusque and devil-may-care rogue who secretly has a heart of gold. Stretches the limits of suspension of disbelief, but it's a fun story anyway.<BR><BR>Like all collections by various beginning authors, you've got to expect some hit-and-miss stories in here. But if all you're after is a narrative introduction to the campaign world, without the game rules, then this is what you need. Don't expect too much and you may be pleasantly surprised. If you're not a gamer, this might not be a good choice.	2003-04-28
US	52872836	R2EV2JGWJUGGP9	0671721860	387107544	Three Hearts and Three Lions	Books	4	9	10	N	N	An Almost Archaeological Appreciation	Like many others, I found out about this book long after being introduced to fantasy role-playing games, specifically Dungeons and Dragons. It is mentioned in the FAQ on a D&D newsgroup as a source for some of the ideas in the game. To be specific, this is where the regenerating trolls come from. There are a few more ideas in here that I recall from my early days of Basic D&D. The early D&D alignment system seems to draw from this book as well (Law vs Chaos with a sizeable Neutral populace), and possibly others. Other D&D concepts are mentioned as well, but those were the most noticeable. In that context, the book is fascinating, and a must-read for any gamer.<BR><br />The story itself is a twist on the \\"Connecticut Yankee in King Arthur's Court\\" idea. Though in this story, the modern man is taken into a fantastical world where magic works and the forces of Chaos are rallying to strike against the world of Law (humans). The modern man is Holger Carlsen, a Danish engineer who goes home to join the resistance in World War II. During a crucial fight against Nazis he loses consciousness and wakes up in a world where he is a great knight fighting on the side of Law (which equates to good in this book). Opposing him is an assortment of magical foes, and at his side is Hugi, the hill dwarf, and Alianora, the swan-may. <BR><br />Carlsen, or Sir Holger as he is called in this fantasy world, approaches the magic around him with an engineer's eye. He reasons out the mechanics and laws governing certain aspects of the magical world, and identifies a couple of scientific reasons for the superstitions prevalent there. Though he wavers sometimes in the purity of his thoughts, he is the archetypical paladin, a good guy through and through. Soon after arriving in this fantasy world, he figures out what he must do and pursues that quest with unwavering sureness. The supporting characters are fairly well drawn out for such a short novel. It's a little hard to follow Hugi's brogue in the beginning, but you get used to it, so it doesn't really detract from the story. <BR><br />Holger draws parallels between the magical world, with Law at war against Chaos, and our own, in his time at war against the Nazis. The causes for war are simplified in the fantasy world to the fact that Chaos more or less equates to evil, and Law is nearly synonymous with good. But Holger's quest remains the same: to defeat evil. A simplistic motivation, but it makes for a highly enjoyable story. In the tradition of Arthurian legend, Holger's quest takes him across the countryside, from adventure to adventure, meeting friends and enemies on the way. Because of its common themes, it can be enjoyed by readers of all ages.<BR><br />If you give this book to any fantasy reader, it's sure to become one of their favorites.	2003-03-25
US	52872836	R38VMJNE3JKRN1	0553211587	992467602	Pudd'nhead Wilson (Bantam Classics)	Books	5	2	4	N	N	First Impressions That Last	Pudd'nhead Wilson is the story of a town in which people aren't always what they seem, and life doesn't always go the way it should. The novel is short, but packs a lot of thought into such a small space. Mark Twain deals with complex topics such as race and freedom with humor and ironic wit.<BR><BR>The story is set in a time period marked by severe racial inequality. One of the dominating topics throughout the book is the difference between the rights and privileges of white citizens, and the lack of rights of black slaves. It is set before the US Civil War, so in many states, such as Missouri where the story takes place, slavery is legal and practiced. Blacks, even free blacks, have no real options in life other than to live in poverty and servitude. This disparity of lifestyle prompts a slave named Roxy to perpetrate a hoax, which places her own child, who to all intents and purposes looks white, in the place of the young son of the master of the house, and vice versa. She can't see how her own natural son's life could get any worse than what he'd been dealt by fate and law, and so felt she had nothing to lose. <BR><BR>Twain uses irony to illustrate that the differences between whites and blacks is superficial. He cynically explains that even though Roxy is 15/16ths white, and her son 31/32nds white, the one fraction that was black \\"outvoted\\" the rest of them, and so they were considered \\"by a fiction of law and custom,\\" Negroes, and therefore not entitled to the rights and freedoms of whites. A few pages earlier he used the same ironic style to describe the more upstanding citizens of the town, one of which was described as being a gentleman of such good bearing, he'd be ready to duel you to the death over some perceived insult to his honor. Another character is described as a man \\"of formidable caliber,\\" yet it turns out that this is the man who fathered a bastard child on a slave woman, and someone else's slave at that. This piece of information makes the factthat the son, Chambers, is considered a Negro and a slave all the more ironic, because if one determines one's worth in society by one's lineage, the Negro slave Chambers actually has a more prestigious lineage than all but a couple of the white people of Dawson's Landing. The use of irony to juxtapose the status of the individuals with the qualities that define them accentuates how meaningless such distinctions are.<BR><BR>Twain explores the age-old argument of \\"Nature versus Nurture\\" - that is whether a person's ancestry and social class determine his character, or if character is determined by the influences in one's upbringing. Tom and Chambers are placed into roles they were not born to, and no one notices the difference. Roxy makes the switch to correct the fact that her son was a slave as an accident of birth. The examination of these issues leads into the irony of Tom's life and how his story is resolved.<BR><BR>The strange joke made by the title character Wilson, and the conversation among the townsfolk, which earns him the name of Pudd'nhead, plays off of the difference between educated wit and country wisdom. The people of Dawson's Landing cannot make sense of the metaphorical wit of the educated Easterner, which earns him the nickname he bears for most of the next three decades. The irony is that although the people of Dawson's Landing consider Wilson an idiot, he clearly has more education and more cerebral pursuits than any of those townspeople. Twain examines the question of what defines a person. Twain investigates whether a man's identity is determined by how people see him, or if he can have definition other than what is observed.<BR><BR>Twain balances all these tensions to explore complex themes and meanings, examining the value or futility of judging a person based on his outward appearance or first impressions.	2002-12-16
US	52872836	R1Z07OBBS2DIW9	0312850093	456114433	The Eye of the World (The Wheel of Time, Book 1)	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Ambitious	This novel, the first in the Wheel of Time series, begins an ambitious undertaking in the epic fantasy genre. We are introduced to the heroes, a collection of backwater friends barely old enough to be called adults, and the two strangers who come into their village and change everything they know about their world and themselves. <BR><BR>The story begins with Rand al'Thor, a shepherd and farmer, who feels himself being watched on the road into town. This ill omen is echoed with his two friends, Mat Cauthon and Perrin Aybara. This visitation is the precursor to an attack on the village by creatures long thought to be a legend. The two strangers, the mysterious woman Moiraine (whom we learn is an Aes Sedai, a woman able to tap into a supernatural \\"One Power\\" to weave magical effects) and her guardian (called a Warder), Lan, tell them that there is something special about the three young men, and urge them to leave the village with them. Egwene al'Vere, a young woman of their village, joins them as they begin their quest, and they are joined later on by Nynaeve al'Meara, the village \\"Wisdom\\" or healing woman. On their way to their destination, they are forced to grow up fast if they hope to survive. They are confronted with adversaries of many forms, human and monster, and learn that the Dark One, an evil power confined millennia ago in a mystic prison, is rising in power and threatens the world once more. And in their travels, they also meet a few people who will become friends, and who make recurring appearances throughout the series. <BR><BR>As quest fantasy goes, it's pretty good. The idea of twelve or more books in the series makes it sound like the pacing would drag, but this is quite vigorous in its pacing. All the groundwork for the rest of the series is being laid down here, in describing the cultures and cosmology of the Wheel of Time universe, but never at the expense of the story. Many have called it a Tolkien rip-off, and in some ways, that's so, but thenTolkien wasn't writing in a vacuum, either. I don't really see how that's necessarily a bad thing. If I like Lord of the Rings, so it stands to reason I would like something similar to it. The well-known fantasy archetypes are used well in the story, and are supported by a defined magic system and world history. Of course you'll find a few fantasy clichs in here, too. They're hard to avoid when writing in this motif. Though it falls into the category of epic quest fantasy, Jordan departs from the Tolkien model far enough that this is as original a series as can be expected in the genre. <BR><BR>Jordan also uses the concept of the Wheel of Time itself to insinuate that our own world is yet another turning of the Wheel. As the book says, \\"Ages come and pass... Legend fades to myth, and even myth is long forgotten when the Age that gave it birth comes again.\\" To this end, he alludes to characters and legends analogous to those that you and I in the real world already know of. The names of the Forsaken (an elite group of servants to the Dark One) are taken from various myths and religions. Certain legendary figures in the world history have names strangely similar to those in the real world, such as Artur Pendraeg and Birgitte. <BR><BR>There were a couple of problems I had with the book, that after the six books I've read still are not satisfactorily explained. The setting of the story is a massive continent that seems to be about the size of Europe, or perhaps a mirror image of China. In this entire continent, there are only two languages, and one of them is dead. The \\"Old Tongue\\" which has no name other than that, does not seem to be related at all to the modern language, yet at some point in the past, people simply stopped speaking the Old Tongue, and started speaking the new one, seemingly overnight.<BR><BR>Another problem I had was with the personalities of some characters. Most of the women are weakly defined, primarily differentiated only by the degree of theirtemper, and they all have a temper, and they live and breathe scathing generalizations about men. The character of Mat is also hard to sympathize with, as he spends the beginning of the book being a bratty little kid, and most of the rest of the book being surly and aggressive, as his mind is slowly dominated by an evil relic. <BR><BR>A minor nit to pick is the phrase the Aes Sedai keep kicking around. \\"The Wheel weaves as the Wheel wills.\\" It's a cute little phrase but it sounds like a mixed metaphor to me. Wheels don't weave. Wheels spin or wheels turn. Looms weave. A minor annoyance at best, but it did stick out in my mind as unnecessary repetition.<BR><BR>Getting past all that, I did enjoy the book, and have enjoyed most of the books that have come after it in the series. Rand and Perrin are interesting characters, and the narration from their points of view are enjoyable. Perrin is my favorite character in the series so far, but for the first couple books, Rand is likeable as well. The story moves along, as a lot of the book involves the characters being chased by one set of bad guys or another. This serves to drive the story with a sense of urgency, and the end of the book leaves you with a healthy wonder of what will happen next. I found it enjoyable, and as of book 6, it strikes me as one of the better fantasy series I've read.	2002-12-02
US	52872836	R2U4CTE60LNGSA	0060245867	185081805	If You Give a Mouse a Cookie (If You Give...)	Books	5	5	17	N	N	Brilliant Marxist Allegory	On the surface this book appears to be a cute tale of cause and effect that results from giving a mouse a cookie. Although this appeals to children, it is merely a metaphor for the real point of the book. Though the boy gives and gives of himself, the mouse is never satisfied, and continues to demand more and more of the boy. Clearly this illustrates the writer's view of the inherent problems in a capitalist economy.<BR><BR>Through this allegory, the book tells of the plight of the common man. Here we see the working class (as represented by the boy) stooping and fetching for the much smaller privileged upper class (the mouse). Though the mouse appears to be helpful by cleaning the whole house, this simply illustrates the charade of the class system. The tools the rich use to clean are provided by the exploitation of the poor workers. The upper class demands that the workers attend their needs for little or no pay while the rich \\"clean up.\\" Throughout it all, the working class maintains its servile attitude, hoping to reap some reward for its efforts, but the end of the book demonstrates that this is an illusion; the cycle inevitably repeats itself.<BR><BR>Children enjoy this book because the cause and effect relationship of the events is easily memorized and predictable. Just like the never-ending class struggle, as the author astutely points out.	2002-10-30
US	52872836	R1YB076H7R8FC	1588810127	581918103	The Cleanup	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Power Corrupts	This was a pretty fun horror-fantasy-thriller novel. A talented but unsuccessful musician, Billy, makes a deal with an angel and gains the power to do anything he can imagine. So he becomes a super-hero, minus the flashy costume and catchy name.<BR><BR>The story takes a turn when the lines begin to blur between justice and brutality. The tension in the story builds as Billy's power gains power over him, and he starts to become a monster ruled by whim and cruelty.<BR><BR>The story is quite captivating, and the writing very skillful. I had no idea this was their first novel, as I saw in another review. It was definitely hard to put down. A good short read, which you should pick up if you can find it.	2002-10-22
US	52872836	ROBUYH6MZ8R3K	0886777178	870845551	Crown of Shadows (The Coldfire Trilogy, Book 3)	Books	4	4	6	N	N	Unrelenting	This final volume of the Coldfire Trilogy closes the series with a bang. The pace never lets up as the priest Damien Vryce and the darkly mysterious Gerald Tarrant race against time and the nearly-all-powerful Iezu Calesta to save the planet Erna from demonic domination.<BR><BR> At times in the previous two books, the drawn-out traveling sections made me pause to wonder if it was worth it. After finishing this one, I felt that it definitely had been.  Not only does the tension in this book build upon the plotlines from the last books, but it introduces several new story arcs that pack this book with drama. The Patriarch from book one is back. In the first book, the true depth and complexity of his character was only hinted at. In this volume, he becomes much more of a main character, and he becomes a man with the heavy burden of being given the opportunity to save his own world, and must struggle with the sacrifices that duty entails. The character of Andrys is initially despicable, but his growth and change in the story guide the reader through the journey of a man finding his own redemption.<BR><BR> Once again, our heroes Vryce and Tarrant are forced to travel cross-country in a dark adventure to reach their goal of stopping Calesta. However, there's so much more going on in this book that the travel sections are trimmed down to an acceptable minimum. The interaction between the two, and the ordeals each endures for the other, lends a bittersweet edge to the resolution of the crisis, which I must say was a really great way to end the series. Much more of the nature and origin of the Fae is revealed in this book, and the truth may surprise you. <BR><BR> In short, it's worth slogging through the first two books to get to this one.	2001-07-02
US	52872836	R12DCYDVZTDH0E	0316290238	741461517	The Collector (Back Bay Books)	Books	4	45	49	N	N	He Said, She Said	The Collector was John Fowles's first published novel. It is the tale of a misunderstood nerd named Fred Clegg, a clerk and butterfly collector who wins a substantial sum of money, and Miranda, the beautiful young art student he becomes obsessed with. The first section of the book is written from Fred's point of view, and you get a good view inside the mind of the insane as he makes it seem reasonable, almost inevitable, when he kidnaps her and keeps her prisoner in his hidden basement. Even though it is obvious that he is mad, the reader can't help but feel some sympathy for him, even as he deteriorates into his criminal acts.<br /><br /> The suspense of the novel is very well done, and from the beginning, it's hard to put the book down. Fred tells Miranda his name is Ferdinand, because he thinks the name sounds more sophisticated and exotic. So we have Ferdinand and Miranda. Get it? We got it. Evidently, so did Miranda, because in the second section of the novel we get her point of view, and she refers to him as Caliban in the journal she keeps during her captivity.<br /><br /> Much is made of the class difference between the two in their own point of view narratives. Fred kidnaps Miranda because he doesn't have a chance with girls of her type, and in her captivity, she comes to know him, and they have a strange relationship of jailer and prisoner, tormentor and victim. As she comes to know him, she finds herself almost seeking his company as the only human being she has seen since he took her. But she is still held prisoner, as much a part of his collection as the butterflies pinned to his display trays.<br /><br /> The pacing of the book is so quick, it was over before I knew it. The writing is intense, and the point of view of the captive and captor are both explored in a startlingly realistic, in-depth character study, examining human emotion, connections, religion, art, and the driving need for freedom. The ending is foreshadowed from the beginning, so although it's not really a surprise, the suspense of following the events from both perspectives keeps the reader riveted.really a surprise, the suspense of following the events from both perspectives keeps the reader riveted.	2001-06-19
US	52872836	R1FXUIJKRHOC1L	0316290270	459040846	Mantissa (Back Bay Books)	Books	4	16	17	N	N	Amusing, So To Speak	Mantissa is a short, light romp through the writer's mind. There's no heavy subtext to mull over. There's no ponderous character development to follow.  There's just Miles Green in his hospital room, which becomes other things, and Erato, the woman who is his muse. A few other characters lurk in orbit around the room, but the whole story takes place literally in the brain of Miles. <BR><BR> Most of the book is dialogue between Miles and Erato as he alternately romances and berates his muse, the essence of his creativity, and is repaid in kind. It's an animated metaphor for the process of writing, and many times the characters seem to know they are merely characters in a book. It begins in a hospital where Miles has just recovered, having lost his memory through some accident, but that scenario quickly ends as Erato takes on numerous personalities and attitudes in her interaction with Miles. <BR><BR> This is probably best for those familiar with John Fowles's other works. Mantissa is clever, it's funny, it's self-aware, and it's not going to shake the literary world. It's just a quick afternoon read that gives you a peek into the mind of a writer.	2001-06-08
US	52872836	R2I45J1V64A0ZF	0886776155	723082796	When True Night Falls (Coldfire Trilogy, Book 2)	Books	4	10	10	N	N	Superior to the First	Almost everyone I spoke to who had read this series said that the second book was not as good as the first. Possibly as a result of this, my expectations were not as high, but I have to disagree. Though in structure, it's similar, and you could even argue that this volume is a rehash of the first book, I felt that this book was done better than the first one.<BR><BR> In the beginning of this novel, the characters from the first book are arriving at their destination: the lost civilization, the eastern continent, settled by a group of religious pilgrims centuries before. The priest Damien Vryce finds a culture and nation that realizes his dearest dreams of a civilization ruled by his religion, where the faith in his God holds dominance in the hearts and minds of its people. But it is soon revealed that all is not as it seems in this new land, and the companions find themselves on a trek to the south to discover the source of the evil that has insinuated itself into the civilization.<BR><BR> In that regard, it is a rehash. Much of the book is spent traveling again, and this is the part I found a bit tedious. This book could have been about 100 pages shorter if the unnecessary overland journey section were shortened. But I felt that the reasons behind the actions certain characters take were a bit more well established than in the first volume of the trilogy. The characters also change and grow along the way, and the characterization is better in this volume than the previous. In the course of this novel, we learn who the true enemy is, and this sets up the plot of the third novel.<BR><BR> One of the problems I had with this book was the title. The author took pains to define what True Night meant in the first book, and it doesn't really come into play for this one. The plot or resolution doesn't hinge on the fall of Erna's True Night, nor does anything happen on such an event. You could take the figurative stance that True Night in this case doesn't mean a literal True Night, but a state of hopelessness or deception. But it would be a weak stance. Also the coldfire doesn't really enter into it much, either. but they're catchy phrases, so they make decent titles.<BR><BR> Despite the lengthy travel spanning the middle section of the novel, it moves along at a pretty good pace. The tension builds up well, and there are some gripping moments near the end where you really can't put the book down. So don't be put off by people saying this is a boring middle-novel where nothing really happens. This is where the real foundation of the climax to the trilogy is being set down.	2001-05-23
US	52872836	R2AH11Q9U4M6OL	0316291161	474944569	The French Lieutenant's Woman	Books	5	6	6	N	N	The Victorian Era In Retrospect	Though the story in this novel takes place in the Victorian era of England in 1869, it was written a century later, allowing the author and the reader to view the entire time period in retrospect, and make several observations on the age as it pertains to the story he tells. That story involves a young gentleman, Charles, engaged to a suitable young lady, Ernestina, the daughter of a successful tradesman. Charles becomes intrigued by the local outcast Sarah, also known (most euphemistically) as &quot;The French Lieutenant's Woman,&quot; and they share an attraction that defies his social station and, as a societal outcast, her lack of one.<BR><BR> Throughout the novel, Fowles inserts information about the era, and highlights in particular the hypocrisy of sexual attitudes and roles. Charles and Sarah find themselves victims of these restrictions, and as such their romance is doomed from the start. Charles convinces himself that he has a truly selfless motive in attempting to help Sarah, whom he sees as a victim, and ends up weaving a web of deceit to himself and others as he fails to see himself falling in love with her. As the novel progresses, one can read in the comments about Victorian standards, commentary about our own modern age. By holding this bygone age up to our own, Fowles shows us how far we've come, and how little we've left behind.<BR><BR> To enhance the immersive storytelling, the prose is written in a style reminiscent of the Victorian authors themselves. In fact, in one section where Fowles points out such contradictions as the fact that in this age when lust was a forbidden topic, one in every sixty houses in London was a brothel, the paragraph might easily be read as &quot;It was the best of times, it was the worst of times...&quot; But even in this emulation, he uses more modern literary methods, such as giving a false ending more than a hundred pages before the real end, and inserting himself as a character in the story. These feats are done with expertise and flair, and though they are jarring at first, it quickly becomes apparent that even the tricks are part of the story.<BR><BR> Held up against the story of the upper-class Charles is the subplot of Sam, his manservant. Sam also has his own romance with Mary, a maid in Ernestina's aunt's household. The societal standards for Charles and for Sam are compared and contrasted throughout the book, creating an intriguing duality of storytelling, which leaves the upper-class Victorians looking somewhat the worse for comparison.<BR><BR> If you don't mind a novel that's hard to put down, and very tempting to re-read as soon as you've finished, I strongly recommend The French Lieutenant's Woman.	2001-04-30
US	52872836	R2RSRKJI55I90B	1565048474	986488754	The Road To Hell  (The Horizon War , Vol 1)	Books	3	1	3	N	N	Good story, but the writing could be better	I like the Mage game system, and it's always interesting to read stories using that style of magick. This story is a good adventure and it moves along well. But the writing style was amateurish, and even a little painful at times. It seemed that every time a new character was seen, he or she would be described like a list of features, starting with hair and build, finishing with clothes (descending from head to toe). This was slightly annoying, as it meant that every single time a new character came into the scene, all action stopped so the author could read off this checklist. There were other problems with the writing, too. I lost track of the times Seventeen (the main character, an amnesiac escaped technocracy test subject) &quot;had no idea&quot; about something or found himself using skills &quot;he hadn't known he'd possessed.&quot;  <BR><BR> But apart from that, the story was pretty good. I don't like a  single thing about the character of Sam Haine, not even his name. But the Technocracy villains were very interesting characters, and their creations equally so. The author juggles quite a number of plotlines throughout this novel, which presumably will intertwine more fully in the next couple novels in the trilogy. As a result, there are a great many characters and factions to learn about. Most of them have well-defined and believable goals and personalities. A few of them are a little sketchy for now. <BR><BR> After reading this book, I look forward to finishing the trilogy.	2001-03-15
US	52872836	R2JNU29KHUXNAF	0786913924	930837895	Reverse Dungeon (Advanced Dungeons & Dragons/AD&D)	Books	4	13	14	N	N	A Nice Diversion	This book allows the players to make up monster PCs to defend their homes from invading adventurers. The first part of the module casts the players as goblins, defending their warrens on the top level of a dungeon. If they are successful in repelling the dreaded do-gooders, they trade up their goblins for more powerful bad guys to fight more powerful adventurers on deeper levels of the dungeon. If your players are willing to step out of their usual characters, this adventure could be a lot of fun.<BR><BR> There's no real possibility of carrying on a long campaign with this book, though. The players can expect a high mortality rate with their goblins, and shouldn't get too attached to them anyway, since they drop them later for the bigger monsters. I think the ideal use for this adventure would be to serve as a diversion from an ongoing campaign, or as a break between adventures.<BR><BR> The invading adventurer NPCs are fairly weak at the beginning of the adventure. I would recommend beefing them up a bit, or making up completely new characters to pit against your monster PCs. The adventurers that come along later are more on par with normal PC adventurers, and can hold their own reasonably well.<BR><BR> If your campaign needs a break, or even if you're just in the mood to try something different, I recommend this module.	2001-02-16
US	52872836	R29RSFWO7MZ0G4	0380804557	26552478	Stardust	Books	4	11	12	N	N	Enjoyable in either edition...	With or without the beautiful illustrations by Charles Vess, this is an enjoyable tale. Though it reads like a fairy tale, this book should appeal to more mature readers. Gaiman doesn't shy away from the darker or more risque topics if they are necessary to the story, and at the same time, doesn't overuse these topics gratuitously.<br /><br /> Stardust tells the story of Tristran Thorn, beginning with his father's early adulthood in Wall, the town that lies next to the wall that separates the realm of Faerie from the world of humans. When Tristran becomes a young man, he promises the most beautiful girl in Wall that he will go and fetch the star they just saw fall, if she will give him anything he desires, namely her hand in marriage, when he returns. She takes him up on the promise and so he goes into the land of Faerie to get it. Unbeknownst to Tristran, there are other people seeking the star, all for their own separate reasons. And none of them have really considered how the star feels about all this. On his quest, Tristran learns compassion and courage, and grows up a little somewhere along the way.<br /><br /> Stardust is a very light read. The writing style is very comfortable and natural, and this book makes a great selection to read aloud with a loved one. The motivations of all the characters are well-reasoned, and at the end, the reader feels compassion even for the most wicked of Tristran's competitors. Each of the characters seeking the star has a well-developed history and personality, all with a minimum of prose. Gaiman blends humor, romance, suspense, and action into a thoroughly enjoyable story that lets you immerse yourself in its fantasy world, if only for a little while.	2001-01-25
US	52872836	R3L7HQZ60Q6XVY	0786915528	342936691	Monster Manual: Core Rulebook III (Dungeons & Dragons)	Books	4	8	10	N	N	Indispensable... but incomplete	This book is necessary for anyone wanting to run the D&amp;D 3rd Edition game. It is helpful for anyone wanting to play the game, so that they can familiarize themselves with the kinds of creatures they can expect to encounter in the course of the game.  In that regard, it fulfils its function well. If you're starting to play 3rd edition D&amp;D and are wondering whether to get this book, my answer is that I highly recommend it. <BR><BR> But it's too short. Not only in quantity of monsters, but also in the description of those monsters themselves. Given the quality of the previous edition, it was a bit of a disappointment. The creature descriptions lack the brief ecology and background information, so that the descriptions consist of a collection of creature special abilities, and little else. Adaptability aside, that information from the 2nd edition manual was helpful from time to time in understanding the nature of the creatures, to allow the DM to run them better. This brevity of creature description means that creatures are not allotted a page each, which give the manual a somewhat crammed appearance. Many of the subtypes are omitted for no clear reason. Only two types of Genie are presented, the djinn and the efreet - the marid and the dao, most notably, are absent.<BR><BR> Another possible flaw I see in it is that the new XP system is far too generous with the weak monsters. It may well have been the intent of the system designers, but in this edition, 1st-3rd level characters now get 75 XP from killing a goblin (CR 1/4). That might be a bit too much for some DMs' taste.<BR><BR> But there is also much that is good about this volume. I really like the idea of template creatures. The concept is that certain creatures are individuals who were formerly or simultaneously other things. For example, each vampire, lich, or lycanthrope was some sort of character type first. By taking the character and applying the template, these old cutout monsters all become unique.<BR><BR> I also like the artwork in this book. The monsters no longer look like 2-dimesional comic-book line drawings. I don't agree with all the artists' concepts of the creatures (the minotaur is too hairy, for example), but I do think the quality of the work is improved over previous editions.<BR><BR> I also like that each creature is given a full set of ability stats. Creatures' hit points are affected by high or low Constitution scores. Creatures' attack and damage rolls are affected by high or low Strength. The drawback to this is that some creatures are listed as doing damage that will never actually do any damage. The Skeleton (tiny) does 1-2(-2) points of damage. According to these numbers, it has a 50% chance of actually healing a point. Of course it doesn't work that way, but they should have included measures to make sure that the damage never ended up negative.<BR><BR> Definitely worth getting, but far from perfect. I hope that future monster supplements will return to the more readable one-monster-per-page format. But this one is still pretty good, even with that flaw.	2001-01-05
US	52872836	RS065F6X2OWQ0	0345379330	441859006	Mostly Harmless (Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy)	Books	4	6	8	N	N	It's the end... but the moment has been prepared for	This book is unquestionably the definitive END of the Hitchhikers series. And because the end is so sudden, it's bound to upset many long-time Hitchhiker fans. The best part about this book is that even though it has such a down ending, it doesn't lack the humor or sardonic tone of the previous books. In fact, if anything else, it increases the sense of irony of its predescessors by driving home the underlying message of the previous books with its finality. If anything, it's too short, and the plot threads that were introduced could have been better developed, but given the ending, it's not surprising that they're not.<br /><br /> In many ways, Adams's writing skills have matured over the past 4 volumes of the series. In this book, we see very little of the minor flaws of the early installments, such as pointless dialogue and digressions. His characterization is better here, and the plot elements are interwoven more intricately. Throughout the book, several seemingly unrelated storylines wind along to converge at the end where Adams can put a big CLOSED stamp on the whole story. I thought there were quite a number of laugh-out-loud funny parts to it.<br /><br /> One of the best parts of this story is the sudden and pointless ending. Throughout the whole series, there has been the quest to discover the meaning of a meaningless universe. Each time the characters find a lead to the meaning of Life, the Universe, and Everything, it turns out to be a disappointment. So what better ending for a series about the fruitless search for meaning than the one Adams gave to this book?<br /><br /> If no one else did, at least Ford Prefect saw the humor of it.	2000-12-23
US	52872836	R53BDO6QY8SB5	0441006256	804031392	Freedom's Challenge (Freedom Series: Book 3)	Books	3	12	13	N	N	A Series of Successes	In this third volume of the Freedom trilogy, Anne McCaffrey closes all the loose ends she'd left open in the previous two volumes, effectively ending the series. As a whole, the series was interesting, and throughout the three books, I felt for the characters, and wanted to know what they'd do next. It was a step-by-step detailed description of how a small group of exiles built a home on a planet that was initially hostile to them. In the context of being a series ending, the book is satisfying. The colonists finally realize success after so long and hard an endeavor. But when viewed by itself, this book contained only the successes, and none of the real hardships.<BR><BR> The entire book passes by with very little challenge to the colonists of Botany. It was an interesting logistical inventory for setting up a successful colony, but there's no real conflict. Just about everything they attempt works out, often better than they'd expected. About halfway through the book, I was sure something would finally go wrong, but it never did. Some of the successes were ridiculously easy. Some were at the very least, improbable. The humans on Botany were able to disguise themselves as Catteni with a little makeup and prosthetic cheekbones. This disguise was somehow able to fool real Catteni even after prolonged interaction. I found this a little bit unlikely.<BR><BR> As an ending to the series, it was adequate. But to make it a good installment in a trilogy, the author really should have included more conflict and story. The last book could have ended &quot;And they lived happily ever after&quot; and no real plot points would have been lost. Still, the writing style is enjoyable, and I already liked the characters enough to see what happened next. The same favorites are back in this book, and the story such as it is moves along with good pacing. On that merit alone, the book earns three stars.	2000-12-23
US	52872836	R2NHAVRDUIV20Q	0886775272	892244184	Black Sun Rising (The Coldfire Trilogy, Book 1)	Books	3	47	64	N	N	Good Fantasy World	I had a hard time starting this book. The opening scene, the most intense in the whole novel, depicts a man sacrificing his wife and children. The first time I picked up the novel, that part kind of put me off the whole thing. That the writing had that much of an impact on me speaks well of the writing abilities of the author.<BR><BR> I liked the idea of a world where an ever-present background force turns our subconscious thoughts into reality. The world of Erna is a fantasy setting wrapped in a science-fiction premise. The humans on Erna are the descendants of earth-born colonists who learned early on that technology doesn't often work right because of the Fey, the force that turns human fears into reality. Murphy's Law to the Nth power. But the story is unquestionably fantasy. Humans &quot;work&quot; the fey as either Adepts or Sorcerers, and the society seems to mimic medieval earth.<BR><BR> Some of the character development is very detailed. The character of the Patriarch is at once a threatening force and a sympathetic character. I have not read the rest of the trilogy yet, but hope that the character is used more in the next two books. Damien gives us the majority of the point-of-view narration, and his character has a sense of depth that makes the reader want to learn more about him. Tarrant seems to be Friedman's favorite, as he is portrayed as dark and mysterious, an unapologetic evil that we can understand and even hope to see more of. Other characters are not as well fleshed out, but serve their purposes adequately.<BR><BR> So why only three stars?<BR><BR> The book is lacking in several areas, which disappointed me after such a promising beginning. The physical descriptions are few and far between. When Tarrant appears at an inn in the book, we are given a very vague description of him, nothing to compare him to the other appearance of the character. There's also a race called the Rakh, which evolved from the indiginous feline predator on Erna, but little description is given to describe them when they appear until near the end of the book, and several characters seem unable to recognize them as non-human, despite the fur and tail.<BR><BR> Also, the characters seem to have knowledge beyond what they could possibly know. Early in the novel, Ciani (the adept woman) is attacked by creatures that no one has ever seen in the human-occupied lands before. I'm not sure how the characters know that killing the creatures will restore her mind (at least in part), how they know that the creatures are from the North, and how they know the creatures are returning north. And somehow they manage to follow in the exact same path across miles and days of travel, even after they've left the path and have no means of tracking them. There were a couple other incidents later in the book that fall into the same category, but to mention them here would be to give too much away.<BR><BR> That said, I did enjoy reading this book. Despite its flaws, it was interesting enough to keep me reading, and good enough to get me to want to read the next two books.	2000-12-21
US	52872836	ROCALMT87DLRY	0880381736	486220975	Dragons of Autumn Twilight (DragonLance Chronicles, Vol. 1)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Does Life Imitate Art, Or....?	OK, so it's not high art, but it is a pretty good fantasy series. It is unusual in that it is the first fantasy series I know of that was directly based on the Dungeons &amp; Dragons role-playing game. If you think about it, it implies that fantasy has come full circle. Fantasy gaming was in large part originally based on Lord of the Rings and similar, later fantasy books. Some fantasy series before this one seemed to be based on D&amp;D, but at least pretended to be original works. The Shannara books spring to mind in this regard. But Dragonlance Chronicles was unapologetically based on D&amp;D (actually Advanced Dungeons &amp; Dragons, or AD&amp;D, but it's basically the same), and published by TSR, the company that produced D&amp;D. It chronicles the adventures of a party of characters in a home-made D&amp;D world setting called Krynn. As such, I thought it was well-done and very interesting. I may have been partial to it because I've been a long-time D&amp;D player, but I find it no worse than most other fantasy series out there, and better than many I've read before and since.<BR><BR> Each character shares a bit of the spotlight in the story, and characterization is detailed and consistent. The characters themselves are interesting, from the bouncy and amusing kender thief Tasslehoff to the dark and brooding mage Raistlin. There's something for everyone, really.<BR><BR> The writing itself is not great, but not bad for a first novel. There are a couple parts where it seems a bit clunky, but nothing that interferes with the overall storytelling. The story itself was interesting enough to keep me reading. Like most other fantasy stories, what's at stake is the future of the world. But this saga is well executed with enough focus on the characters and their quest to make it an original story.<BR><BR> I didn't really care for the gully dwarves or the tinker gnomes in the world of Krynn. But they will probably appeal to some readers more than they did to me. Apart from that, the rest of the world of Krynn is enough of a departure from ordinary D&amp;D that gamer/readers won't get hung up on the game stats of the characters or monsters. <BR><BR> In short, the series should be pretty enjoyable for gamers, and I suspect non-gamers might find it a good story and a good introduction to the fantasy concepts of D&amp;D.	2000-12-19
US	52872836	R120ARYBL93DID	0345330676	529663645	The Misplaced Legion	Books	4	18	18	N	N	Good story, but take notes	This is kind of a strange series, but a pretty good one. It places a pre-empire Roman legion into a fantasy world, in an empire called Videssos. Videssos is made to be exactly like the Byzantine Empire of earth, with the exception that magic is a real force in Videssos's world. There is much opportunity for irony, as the main Roman character reflects on how his Rome would never do certain things like Videssos, while the reader knows that Videssos is exactly what Rome becomes.<BR><BR> All of the other countries and peoples in the series are analogous to real-world cultures contemporary to the Byzantine Empire. And there are a lot of them. That's why I say take notes. There are so many characters in this that it's easy to get confused. But most of the characters are fairly well developed, and come off as unique individuals. Turtledove uses some stereotypes to give distinction and identity to the cultures in the series, but for the most part, it accomplishes that goal without becoming overbearing.<BR><BR> However, as the series is after all a fantasy, Turtledove makes one culture a race of devil-worshiping barbarians. As all the fantasy-world cultures are analogous to real-world cultures, this means that he's implying that the Yezda's real-world counterpart are uniformly evil. I don't think this was his goal. I think he just wanted to propose the idea of what if the enemies of the empire really were as the empire saw them. With that in mind, I think the series will be more enjoyable for those sensitive to such matters.<BR><BR> The focus of the series is on personal interactions and intercultural politics. The fantastical aspects are fairly low-key. The magic that brought the legion to Videssos is never really explored, and never explained at all. There are no elves, no dragons, and no maiden-kidnapping monsters in the world Videssos occupies. All of Videssos's monsters are human. In this regard, the series is very enjoyable. Turtledove creates realistic characters withrealistic motivations and means, and the reader can understand and sympathize with most of them throughout this book and the series.<BR><BR> The Misplaced Legion, and its three successive novels in the Videssos Cycle are worth reading. It should appeal to fantasy readers and history buffs alike.	2000-12-15
US	52872836	R1YFN3GB4J87UI	1565044894	290603782	Mage: Sorcerers Crusade (Mage the Sorcerers Crusade)	Books	4	11	12	N	N	What if magic worked the way it was supposed to?	The Sorcerers' Crusade is a good setting for Mage. A lot of the modern game focuses on how magic doesn't really work the way it's supposed to because people's belief in science is too firmly entrenched in the world's paradigm. In the SC setting, science is a bit less accepted, and magic works a little better. Paradox, which in the modern game is always bad, is called Scourge in this setting, and can occasionally help a Mage. The Technocracy is on more equal footing with the Tradition mages here, as both are struggling to put their paradigm forward as dominant.<BR><BR> There's quite a bit of history and world setting information in this book. Possibly too much, depending on your needs. Relatively little of the book is taken up with game system mechanics. What system rules there are cannot be found all in one place. The organization of the rules is somewhat loose. Like the modern game, the magic system is open-ended, with ability defined in areas of control rather than specific spells. But like most other Mage books, spells (rotes) can be found if one looks hard enough.<BR><BR> If you've played Mage: The Ascension, it will be easier to understand this book. If not, some of the game rules might be confusing. If you like the Mage magic system, but don't care for the dark-goth game world White Wolf sets the games in, this is probably the game for you.	2000-12-15
US	52872836	REEAMY3C2TDD1	1556342845	829691224	GURPS Mage The Ascension *OP (GURPS: Generic Universal Role Playing System)	Books	4	14	15	N	N	Powerful Stuff!	This GURPS supplement is derived from White Wolf's Mage game, from when that game was in its first edition. It adapts White Wolf's much more free-form magic system into GURPS mechanics. It's not really compatible with the (then) pre-existing magic system for GURPS, as this version is far more powerful, and if your GURPS game mixes genres, old-style wizards and magic-user types are liable to feel ripped off, as they will have paid more character points for less power.<br /><br /> I feel that this adaptation captures much of the feel of the original White Wolf game, while adding the ubiquitous game-mechanics of GURPS in an appropriate manner. Much of what makes the White Wolf version hard to play is the absence of hard-and-fast system rules. The GURPS version attempts makes up for that without eliminating the open-ended feel of the original magic. In the end, a compromise is reached. This version strikes a balance between total game mechanics-oriented and free-form story-oriented magic.	2000-12-14
US	52872836	R36ZI4R0BX6VZJ	0440351626	838354674	The Magus	Books	5	191	203	N	N	Great literature	So infrequently does a work of fiction actually change the reader. This book gets under your conscious mind and toys with your perceptions, and in the end, ensures that you no longer take anything quite for granted anymore. The entire book is a wild ride of changing realities, where nothing is certain but constant change. It's a shame they give so much away in the synopsis on the back of the book, because it ruins a crucial plot point in the novel - one that would have been better had I not been expecting it.<BR><BR> The novel begins with young Nicholas Urfe as he tries to find a living he can at least take some interest in. He meets a young woman that nearly penetrates his outer shell of dispassionate world-weariness. As a gesture of independence, he lets her get away and he takes a job on an Greek island. There, he gets involved with a strange old man and his associates, and finds himself the victim of manipulative games and masquerades. He resolves to penetrate each and every deceit, and is led on a strange journey beyond his wildest imaginings.<BR><BR> After reading this book, I immediately wanted to share it with everyone I knew. It got me thinking about how much of my life I take for granted, how little of my own motivations I truly understand myself. Having read this book, I feel richer for the experience. I hope it can do for others what it's done for me.	2000-11-19
US	52872836	R3DBVKYY9TPG9T	0812571355	157033428	Helm	Books	4	23	26	N	N	Good Writing, Bad Editing	This novel, while a good story in and of itself, makes your realize the importance of a good editor, or at the least, a good proofreader. Much of it was very good, but its goodness was marred by the countless errors present in the text.<BR><BR> The story itself is an excellent tale of a feudal-style colony of humans descended from those colonists who were sent to this planet after a global catastrophe made earth uninhabitable. Much of the story centers on the politics, interactions and betrayals amongst the nobles, as alliances are formed and broken in the quest to control more of the scant livable land on the planet. The sendentary peoples of the continent prepare for war against the nomadic tribes of Nullarbor, and dark plans are made against friendly nations while their armies are away.<BR><BR> The hero of the story, Leland du Laal, the youngest son of the local ruling noble, has for whatever reason climbed the Needle, a forbidding rock spire, and donned the Helm, which is supposed to be charging in the sun in preparation for Leland's oldest brother to put on. The Helm infuses the wearer with the total of all human knowledge, and was created to help the colonists set up a good colony. After months of punishment, Leland is sent away to study Aikido, and comes back to lead an army against the nomads.<BR><BR> The characters in the story are well drawn out, if not totally believable. The bad guys seem a little too needlessly cruel, in my opinion. Granted, it makes it easier to hate them and root for the good guys, but some of the things they do go beyond simple conquest of a neighboring province. Leland himself is very likeable as a character, as is his second in command, Gahnfeld. The interaction between the two is enjoyable, and most of the sections about Leland's army make the book worth reading.<BR><BR> My main problem with the book came from all the sloppy phrasings and editing errors that were spread throughout the whole book. Twice, two supporting characters change names, as do a couple place names. Typographical errors litter the prose. Several clumsy phrasings jar the otherwise expert writing style, which could have been cleared up with a slight rephrasing. Things like, &quot;He stood up next to the table and put his hands down on the table.&quot; Clumsy phrasings that a simple pronoun would fix. Pedantic types might not be able to get past that.<BR><BR> This book might take a little more suspension of disbelief than either of Gould's previous two novels. I'm not quite sure why so many people in the colony world study Aikido, but overlooking that, it's a well-created fictional future Gould has formed for his story. The book is fast-paced, and very hard to put down. I'd say it's worth plodding through the errors. The ending was kind of a disappointment, but ignore the epilogue and it's much better.	2000-09-24
US	52872836	R20KBVY27SQ400	0451451155	446908784	TIGANA	Books	4	12	14	N	N	Such a refreshing change	Tigana is a rarity in modern fantasy, not only for the fact that it is an entire story contained in one volume. There are several other fantasy molds it dares to break, and as a result, it provides a refreshing change of pace  from the standard quest fantasy that pervades the science-fiction/fantasy  shelves in the bookstores today. But with these innovations, one has to  accept a few failings of the story as well.<BR><BR> One of the best things  about the book is that finally, at long last, we are given a villain that  is not a cardboard cutout evil sorcerer. In fact, we are presented with two  villains of the piece, and each is unique in his vileness. On the one side,  the sorcerer Alberico is a sick, twisted individual whose evil rests on the  motivation of his ambition to the throne of his native land. Alberico is  contemptible, but at the same time pitiable in the way circumstances seem  so far beyond his control and his ambition. Brandin, the sorcerer from the  other kingdom, and Alberico's rival, is a sympathetic villain, powerful and  controlling, yet not wholly evil. We see a great deal of his human side and  in the end, respect him even as we hope for his downfall. This dual  opposition keeps the reader rapt in the story, devouring the book to see  just where it goes.<BR><BR> And if the villains are complex, the heroes are  doubly so. Each character finds his or her own story arc, and the right and  wrong of their goals are constantly questioned. That good and evil are not  so clear cut is unusual for a fantasy novel, and Mr. Kay earns my respect  for the boldness that it takes to write such a story. The main characters  even question their own motivations for pursuing their goal, something we  usually take for granted in such a tale.<BR><BR> Though this was a unique  fantasy experience, I did find some drawbacks that detracted somewhat from  the pleasure I derived. These points are relatively minor, and I can't even  describe them fully without giving away too much of the book. But one thing  that I did find somewhat irritating was that the Heir of the lost province  seemed too much of a superhero. He had too many exceptional abilities. In  any other fantasy novel this probably wouldn't seem exceptional, but the  rest of Tigana gave me such high hopes that the &quot;do-anything&quot;  characteristics of the heir made it difficult for me to accept. Other  character problems were the inclusion of seemingly major characters that  eventually came to so little that you have to wonder why Kay made them seem  so important. There was also the inclusion of relatively major supporting  characters that weren't even introduced until fairly late in the book.  <BR><BR> Also, there were too many shifts in the point-of-view. This is a  flaw in the writing style, not the story, and many people wouldn't really  care, but I found it hard to follow when I didn't know whose eyes I was  seeing events through. Kay mostly managed to keep the shifts limited to  separate sections, but in one place, he starts a section in one character's  point of view, then two paragraphs later makes an awkward shift to  another.<BR><BR> All in all, the relatively minor flaws are worth working  through in order to enjoy a book like Tigana. If I could give it four and a  half stars, I would. It was the best fantasy novel I'd read in ages, and  has me eager to read more from the author, and more fantasy in general.	2000-07-04
US	52872836	R2GN34EXN6NSAM	0345337662	494921316	Interview with the Vampire	Books	5	3	6	N	N	Best of the Series	This was the first vampire book I'd ever heard of where the vampire was the one telling the story. That was interesting enough to get me to read it. But that's not what I loved about the book. The entire story was filled  with rich and vivid description, incorporating every sense, immersing the  reader in the life, or unlife, of the vampire Louis.<BR><BR> The story  starts out in New Orleans slightly before Louis is made into a vampire by  the complex and fiendish vampire Lestat. Louis then recounts his time in  New Orleans as a vampire, and his travels after leaving Lestat. Throughout  all, we begin to understand what drives a vampire to stay alive, what needs  he seeks to fill in his eternity of undeath.<BR><BR> The story of Louis is  steeped in a romanticization of New Orleans and Paris, told in a prose that  allows the reader to experience it as if firsthand. The description is so  rich one can almost taste the hot humid air of pre-industrial New Orleans,  see and smell the decay of the overcrowded Paris and its  underworld.<BR><BR> It is a vibrant tale of longing and a quest for meaning  in a seemingly empty existence. It is also a very rewarding reading  experience.	2000-06-07
US	52872836	R82O5CQPKS91T	0380758016	397225295	Master of Earth and Water	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Novelization of a Legend	The strangest thing about this fantasy trilogy is that it is not a new story. It is both a retelling of an Irish folk legend and a modern fantasy trilogy, and it succeeds admirably as both. This series will appeal to  Celtophiles and fantasy buffs everywhere, as well as those who simply enjoy  a good story whatever the genre. The Gaelic names and place spellings lend  it a taste of authenticity that may be deceptive, but enhance the cultural  feel of the story.<BR><BR> This first book covers the childhood and coming  of age of Fionn Mac Cumhal (Demne Mael as he is called in his childhood),  the Irish hero and sage of legend. Fans of Ender's Game or other Orson  Scott Card books will likely enjoy the saga of this boy, destined for  greatness, finding his identity and coming into the legacy left by his  parents. Card seems to excel in this sort of story, and this pair of  authors do it quite well in this book.<BR><BR> The authors bravely struggle  to fit into the story all the events that are attributed to Fionn in his  lifetime, which sometimes happens at the cost of the fluidity of the story.  This is rare, though, and for the most part, the story flows smoothly and  interestingly. Where most folklore is told in a dry academic style, this  telling is more immersed in the style of modern fiction, which is a very  refreshing change. There should be more of its kind in the world.<BR><BR>  Instead of a new story, the authors tell a good story and at the same time  educate the reader in Irish folklore. A good series, and a fantastic legend  retold in fascinating style. A good book if you can find it.	2000-05-26
US	52872836	R2AEZMBZBF6LAT	0812523989	961760718	Wildside	Books	5	33	36	N	N	Take a Walk on the...	This was another great book from an author with a rapidly expanding fan base. The story was excellent, the characters were well developed, and the main character, Charlie, was just as much a unique indivudual as Gould's  hero from Jumper, without being a carbon copy of the character. The story  itself is fast-moving and it's hard to put the book down once you've  begun.<BR><BR> As the synopsis says, the hero, Charlie, discovers a portal  in an old barn that leads into an alternate earth; an earth where humans  never existed. Actually, it's not proven that there are no humans anywhere  -- it doesn't matter to the story and the main character doesn't explore  the entire world -- but it appears there aren't.<BR><BR> Charlie hatches a  scheme to use this portal for fun and profit, but to do so he needs to  enlist the help of some friends. So the group establishes a base on the far  side of the portal - the wild side - and gets to work. Though it seems as  if the story of setting up a base in a humanless environment would be dull,  Gould is able to tell even this with a writing style that compells the  reader to continue. The logistical element is used in large part for  character development, as we see the dynamic of the group of friends and  watch them progress in their lives even as the story progresses. <BR><BR>  In his realistic if somewhat cynical fashion, the writer does not allow  Charlie's actions to go unnoticed by the government, and they decide to get  involved, which creates a building conflict between the heroes and the  government which infuses the story with a sense of urgency and  suspense.<BR><BR> In his previous book, Jumper, Gould used teleportation as  a device to further the plot, never fully explaining the reasons behind it.  It seems throughout most of Wildside that he is going to do the same thing  with the portal. However, at the end of the book, the portal itself is  explained, and the explanation is... unexpected.<BR><BR> I found the book  tobe enjoyable and fast-paced without being a vapid adventure tale. There  is plenty to think about in the story, and it leaves you with the  satisfying feeling you can only get from a good story told well.	2000-05-24
US	52872836	R2J3755JCTVVG6	0345335465	496469815	Dragonflight (Dragonriders of Pern - Volume 1)	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Classic Science Fantasy	Although cloaked in the guise of science fiction, this series is more closely aligned with the tenets of fantasy than sci-fi. Though the humans on Pern are descended from interplanetary colonists, the setting is an  agrarian feudal-like society populated with telepathic dragons. It was one  of the best selling modern series to blur the lines between sci-fi and  fantasy, and as such deserves some recognition for doing it well.<BR><BR>  This book is the start of one of the best series in either genre. Though  Pern is fleshed out in subsequent novels, it begins here. As such, there  are some continuity errors that arise later because of otherwise  inconsequential comments in this book, such as the gender of Green Dragons.  But the groundwork is laid for the intricate relationships between dragon  and rider, and riders and holders (the non-weyrfolk of Pern). The prestige  that goes with being a dragonrider has lasted centuries beyond their  usefulness, and Pern is facing a time when those in the lower classes are  beginning to believe that there will not be a need for dragons or riders in  the future. One rider who believes the old legends of Threadfall, and  believes that it will come again to threaten Pern, holds his people  together in the face of adversity with the help of Lessa, the new  Weyrwoman.<BR><BR> The society that McCaffrey creates in the story is  interesting and the characters are well-developed and three-dimensional.  The story itself takes a little bit of time to get going, but once it does,  it carries through the entire original trilogy.<BR><BR> The Pern series is  undoubtedly McCaffrey's best literary effort, and this is the book that  begins it. As an introduction to Pern and its inhabitants, it is  indispensible. As a novel, it is one of the best in its genre. I highly  recommend it to anyone interested in good Sci-Fi/Fantasy literature.	2000-05-24
US	52872836	RG5H060ULA011	0812522370	230034308	Jumper: A Novel	Books	5	67	78	N	N	Good to see it back in print	It's good to see this book back in print after being unavailable for a long time. Perhaps it is a sign that Steven Gould is finally getting the recognition he deserves as a writer. Jumper was a great book, and Gould's  next few books were not marketed as widely as a writer of his calibre  should be. Despite looking for something new from him every month or so at  the local Borders book store, I never even knew about his third and fourth  books until his fifth came out recently. <BR><BR> Jumper was his first, and  it was given to me by a friend who knew I was hard to please in my reading  preferences. I have to say that this was one of the most enjoyable books  I've ever read. As you can read in the synopsis, the main character, Davey,  gains the ability to teleport. But unlike many writers who would focus the  story on how and why he developed this ability, Gould instead writes about  how an intelligent but not-quite-mature teenager might react to having this  new ability. The actual science of it is never explained, but that doesn't  detract from the story. The story is not about the ability. It's about the  young man who has the  ability. <BR><BR> Davey's reactions to suddenly  finding himself with this ability are far more human than the urge to find  out why. Unable to figure out why, he instead focuses on what to do with  it. The early part is filled with self-serving trips to acquire stuff, and  through the course of the story, Davey realizes that even these seemingly  harmless actions have consequences. Some of the complications that arise  later in the story are a direct result of his early endeavors with  teleportation. <BR><BR> But Gould does not center the entire story on  Davey's power. Life goes on, and the world around Davey proceeds apace even  as he experiments. But when something happens to his mother, Davey uses his  teleportation abilities to get to the bottom of it, and ends up in a  complex scenario that Gould resolve sensibly and surprisingly.<BR><BR> To  say any more would give away too much of the story. But this was a great  book, I recommend it, and now that it's available again, I'm going to buy  another copy (I gave mine away to another friend with discriminating  reading tastes).	2000-05-04
US	52872836	R2QLET0MFK4873	0886774144	912507140	The Oathbound (Vows and Honor, Book 1)	Books	3	20	33	N	N	Some of it was very good	Don't get me wrong. I liked some of this book. But there were parts that just ruined it for me, and these are some of the failings that I find in a lot of fantasy novels.<BR><BR> For one thing, it was too episodic. I don't  know if the chapters in this were originally separate short stories, but it  certainly seems that way. Most of what happens in the early chapters has  little or no bearing on what happens in later chapters. It's just further,  separate adventures of the two main characters. So as a novel, I found that  it lacked a unifying theme. There was no direction for the characters, they  just wandered from adventure to adventure.<BR><BR> At one point in the  book, the two central characters are in a tavern, and describe in detail  the events of some adventures two to four chapters ago. In essence, it was  like reading a summary of the last several chapters. The author could have  just said, &quot;They told him about fighting the demon, and about their  revenge on the bandit.&quot; But she didn't. Instead, she retold it in  excruciating detail, all in character dialogue. You have to wonder why she  didn't just omit those other chapters and leave the tavern conversation in.  She would have saved on paper costs.<BR><BR> Another thing that ruined it  for me, and this is something I see in a lot of fantasy literature, is the  use of fantasy units of measurement. Specifically, telling passage of time  in a unit she dubs a &quot;candlemark.&quot; This is never defined. At one  point in the book, early on, the main character is waiting for her friend  to come back, and it says, &quot;It seemed she was barely gone a  candlemark...&quot; and I thought, &quot;OK, so a candlemark is short, like  a minute or two.&quot; Later, in a tavern (I can't remember if it's in the  same place as the conversation I mention above), one of the characters is  talking about something she likes and says, &quot;Oh, I could go on for a  candlemark if you don't stop me.&quot; So suddenlyit's a long time? What's  a candlemark? I remember the same problem in Anne McCaffery's Pern books,  when she said (repeatedly) that the time a dragon spends  &quot;between&quot; is &quot;the length of time it takes a man to cough  three times.&quot; I don't know why she couldn't just say &quot;three to  five seconds&quot; if that's what she meant. Likewise, I don't know why  Lackey couldn't have just said &quot;half an hour&quot; if that's what a  candlemark is supposed to be.<BR><BR> Despite these failings, it was a  decent story. I didn't read the sequel, because I'd had enough of  flashbacks and candlemarks, but there were some pretty good ideas in the  book. I liked Kethry's sword, and the culture of Tarma's people seemed  interesting. Their adventures are pretty standard fantasy fare, but they're  better than a lot of what's out there, and they can easily be used by  fantasy gamers as inspiration for games.	2000-03-15
US	52872836	R31Y065QFUGT13	056355570X	216132053	Revolution Man (Doctor Who Series)	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Somewhat distasteful ending	I liked this book most of the way through it. I enjoyed the setting of the turbulent 60s. I enjoyed the character development throughout the book. Fitz seemed to gain a lot more of a personality in this book, but he still  seems as if he doesn't fit in, somehow. He seems to disbelieve in the  Doctor one moment, and then try to totally emulate him in the next.<BR><BR>  The Doctor and Sam, and to some degree Fitz, spent so much time searching  for someone when it was fairly obvious who their real target was. Even when  it seemed he couldn't be a suspect anymore. I felt the author had tried to  introduce a mystery, but didn't give us enough suspects that there was any  work in figuring it out. This made the Doctor seem unusually dense when he  didn't figure it out. This in itself did not slow the story down. <BR><BR>  But what really left a bad taste in my mouth was the ending. Without  spoiling it, I should say that it just seemed so totally uncharacteristic  of either the Doctor or Fitz. A disappointing end to an otherwise decent  novel.	2000-02-01
US	52872836	R3BHQRYK4ULQ9Q	0345335511	535136249	Pawn of Prophecy (Belgariad)	Books	2	19	40	N	N	You know that scene in Wayne's World...	...The one where Wayne, having just learned a bit of Cantonese, has a very lengthy and diverse conversation in that language with Cassandra? It was funny in the movie because it was so ridiculous that someone &quot;just  learning&quot; could have such an extensive vocabulary.<BR><BR> Well,  that's what Eddings does here, only he tries to pass it off as something  within the realm of possibility. As a famous comedian says, I don't mean to  go off on a rant here, but the main character, Garion, is learning the  secret hand gesture language of spies from the thief they travel with. Only  after a couple days of learning, they have a lengthy conversation at a  dinner table, using words no secret sign language should have, such as  names. And the whole time, we the readers are expected to believe this  conversation is so subtle that most people wouldn't notice it. I was  picturing the two conversants standing on the chairs, wiggling their noses  at each other, belching, pulling hair... it would be the only way they  could get the kind of variation needed for the vocabulary this secret  language possesses.<BR><BR> Anyway. The series was cute, but not great. I  had a number of complaints throughout, such as the predictability of the  plot, the cookie-cutter characters... I did read the whole Belgariad,  because it was light enough and fast-paced enough that I could knock out a  book every other day or so. But it just seemed too much like everyone had  the same personality and sense of humor, and it was always the same joke  being made on Garion.<BR><BR> Teens should like it. If you haven't read  that much fantasy already, by all means, this is decent enough to get your  feet wet in the genre. If you prefer something with a little more substance  and creativity, then avoid this one.	2000-01-25
US	52872836	R2N8FY7DYKE7UJ	1572700637	365726027	Great Expectations (Cover to Cover Classics)	Books	5	17	18	N	N	A great book, wonderfully read	I got the &quot;cover-to-cover&quot; book on tape for a long road trip, never having heard the story before. I loved every minute of it. The things that Dickens does with the English language is endlessly entertaining, the  story he tells fascinating and fast-paced. The highly talented Martin  Jarvis reads wonderfully, giving great characterization to the many people  appearing in the story, allowing me to see them all as completely  distinct.<BR><BR> It's a shame that people feel such resentment when forced  to read something. Most of the bad reviews this book gets are from young  people who were forced to read it for a class. When taken at one's own  leisure, and in one's own time, it is quite entertaining. I'm not sure that  the teachers who assign the book are pointing out all the things that make  the book great, such as Dickens's flair with the language, the point he's  making about a society that places birth above worth, and his ability to  make abstract arguments that enhance the story. I'd be interested in  hearing from literature teachers to find out how they use the book in their  classes.<BR><BR> One of the best books ever written, this reading is one of  the best investments of my time I've ever made.	2000-01-24
US	52872836	R2CXZ8P4FKT4OY	1560761555	411082127	Vampire of the Mists (Ravenloft, Book 1)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Good introduction to the flavor of Ravenloft	I don't usually like fiction based on role-playing games, but I decided to give this one a try. I must say that I was very happy with the decision. It filled me in on the history of Ravenloft itself, and Strahd in particular,  in an interesting story that illustrated the world in a way that endless  game books could not. The reader gets a feel for the monsters as well as  the humans in the realm. Characterization of Strahd is excellent, allowing  the reader to understand the making of a monster and his differences and  similarities to Dracula, upon whom he is based. Most importantly, the  reader is spared the game mechanics of the world, which is a failing in  many other RPG novels.	2000-01-17
US	52872836	R2SWETZSJKL9N9	1560768282	588405607	The Complete Sha'ir's Handbook, 2nd Edition (Advanced Dungeons and Dragons / Al-Quadim Campaign Reference)	Books	4	9	9	N	N	Good for players, better for DMs	This book should more appropriately be called &quot;The Complete Al Qadim Wizards Handbook,&quot; because a large portion of the book is devoted to new kits for wizard characters. These kits work best as NPCs, because most  of them don't use normal spellcasting rules, but new variations which take  days, months, or even years of setup. Examples include the Mechanician, who  places his spells inside clockwork automatons, or the Spellweaver, who  weaves them into tapestries. They are interesting ideas, and DMs will  probably want to use them in their game as soon as they can write them up.  But it's hard to imagine a player getting excited about them.<BR><BR>  Sha'irs are not forgotten, though. There's a large section of the book  about details of the sha'ir's gen, and a list of rituals the Sha'ir can  undergo to make his gen more powerful. This list is not all-inclusive-- it  encourages the player and DM to make up their own ritual if they wish to  improve the Gen in a way not listed in the book.<BR><BR> At the end of the  book is a list of new spells for Al Qadim mages. There's more here than is  contained in the usual AD&amp;D supplement- quite a few spells for every  level. New spells are usually interesting, this being no exception.  <BR><BR> All in all, a good book.	2000-01-17
US	52872836	R2OVH78I4ZI3R1	0786912081	517035987	A Darkness Gathering (AD&D Fantasy Roleplaying, Monstrous Arcana)	Books	3	4	5	N	N	Old-style AD&amp;D module, slightly more depth	I confess. I have not played this module. But the adventure does read like an old-style AD&amp;D adventure, and even goes as far as to refer to itself as a &quot;module,&quot; a term that I understood was on the outs, being as  it didn't sound very adventurous.<BR><BR> Unlike most of the old modules,  however, the middle chapters of this adventure can be played in any order.  This gives the players a little flexibility as to how they complete the  adventure, and at the DM's option, they need not find ALL the clues before  the evil mastermind reveals himself (I'm not quite sure why the party would  want to bust up the city guard anyway).<BR><BR> There's a great deal of  license a DM can take with this adventure, fitting it into his game world  as needed. The NPCs are also easily changed to suit the DM's game. The  strange thing I noticed was that ALL the NPCs were human. I guess the city  of Stormport [or your preferred city] is not as cosmopolitan as some other  places in AD&amp;D.<BR><BR> I don't have as much time to design my AD&amp;D  games as I used to, so the resurgence of premade adventures is a boon to  me. I've always found the Mind Flayers interesting, but was never able to  use them successfully in a game. This and its companion guide, The  Illithiad, are a great help in this matter.	2000-01-14
US	52872836	RI983SVBUUMM5	0786911506	836448566	Advanced Dungeons & Dragons Rulebook: Book of Artifacts	Books	4	12	12	N	N	One artifact per campaign, please	I liked this book. You can use one artifact and structure a whole campaign around finding and/or destroying the thing. The rest of the book you can use as generic Bard's tales, provided your party's not so jaded that they  interrupt your story to say, &quot;Oh, he's talking about the Eye of Vecna  (or is it Venca?)! Let's go find it.&quot;<br /><br /> I'm not quite sure why  they kept the random powers for most of these artifacts. Is there some rule  that says that if you're not rolling dice, you're not playing D&amp;D? Most  of these artifacts are centuries old. I would think that they would have  powers that were more constant, not different every time someone new found  them.<br /><br /> Fun book. Good items. Lots of room for abuse, but I don't  feel the need to proselytize game balance right now. That could be because  I'm being slowly dominated by the Dice of Mort the Mad PowerGamer.	2000-01-14
US	52872836	R1GW00CKUT1AVR	0880387793	588575398	The Complete Fighter's Handbook	Books	4	14	17	N	N	Nice book	This book provides lots of new rules and variations on the Fighter class. Unfortunately, there is a lot of potential for abuse. A first level fighter can now take Ambidexterity as a proficiency, specialize in longsword, specialize in two-weapon fighting style, and with a strength of 18 they can  do 24/32 (M/L)(average 17/21) points of damage in one round, and 36/48 (avg  25.5/31.5) the next. They can take, at most, 14. So it makes it hard as a  DM to give the fighter a foe that is a challenge without killing the  fighter instantly.<BR><BR> The kits are interesting, although the  beast-rider presents a challenge to game balance as well. The fighter's  mount would be a powerful ally at low levels, but a liability once the  fighter passes level 5 or so.<BR><BR> The weapon group proficiency rules  are indispensible. It makes a lot more sense than saying that a fighter can  use a long sword but not a short sword (&quot;Hit him with the pointy end,  Phil!&quot;).<BR><BR> This is probably the most useful of the various  Complete Handbooks. I highly recommend it.	2000-01-11
US	52872836	R1SK0CP2Y9C4E0	0786900962	543161881	Player's Option: Combat & Tactics (Advanced Dungeons & Dragons, Rulebook/2149)	Books	2	19	24	N	N	Almost, but not quite entirely useless	I've had this book since the week it came out and I've never used anything from it. I offered my players a chance to vote on using the critical hit system in here, and they were overwhelmingly against it. Their main  complaint was that if they were using it against monsters, then monsters  would be using it against them, and it was too easy to die on dumb luck.  <BR><BR> Perhaps it does make combat more realistic, but when a single  swing of a sword involves 6 dice rolls and takes about 10 minutes to  consult all the right tables and figure out all the modifiers and effects,  I think you're doing something wrong. But, hey, maybe some people like  that.<BR><BR> The monster tactics section is more useful, and if a DM uses  it properly, he allows his monsters to become more than a ball of hit  points that the characters have to reduce.	2000-01-11
US	52872836	R7P9XPJGZDOPV	0786901497	713185173	Player's Option: Skills & Powers (Advanced Dungeons & Dragons Rulebook)	Books	2	13	15	N	N	What a funny little book	This book gives some interesting rules variations, but not all of them make sense. There are point-based character creation rules, which allow characters to pick and choose the abilities for their race and class. It  also presents the newer edition of the Psionicist class also published in  the Dark Sun game. But there are a number of flaws with the new  systems.<BR><BR> For example, you can shift the focus of your attributes.  Using the rules in this book, you can create a fighter who can comfortably  (without encumbrance penalties) carry something several times heavier than  he could ever lift.<BR><BR> For another thing, the Psionicist presented in  the end of the book is totally incompatible with the point-based creation  system in the beginning. I feel that if TSR were giving us a new way to  play the game, they should have made all the new material fit  together.<BR><BR> The book also presents a new way to learn and improve  non-weapon proficiencies. But this new system makes starting characters  almost totally helpless. Starting proficiency rolls are now more likely to  be 8 or 9 for a character's best abilities. &quot;Character Points&quot;  are awarded over the course of the campaign, but a player must devote them  almost entirely to proficiencies if he wants to become as competent as  characters were under the old system.<BR><BR> It was fun to make up  characters in this new system, but playing those characters is another  matter. Like most AD&amp;D supplements, I'm sure future books will ignore  these rules completely. So, unless you or your DM feel like doing a lot of  adapting of future supplements, this book won't be very useful.	2000-01-11
US	52872836	RIJZKQBVM8FO2	0563405783	965284931	Kursaal (Dr. Who Series)	Books	3	0	1	N	N	No surprises, but one cool thing gets three stars	I didn't really like this story that much. I thought it was terribly predictible and even the action scenes were slow-moving. But the Doctor and his companion did something that I've never seen in any Doctor Who show or book. They left the planet without resolving the problem. Now THAT was different. Of course, as there is a lot of the book left when they leave, you know they're not finished. But still, it was original. <BR><BR>  Unfortunately, I kind of got the impression while I was reading this that Anghelides was saying, &quot;If Orman/Blum can do Vampires in Doctor Who, by golly, I can do Werewolves.&quot; In other words, perhaps it premature to have an old horror movie monster as the villain so soon after the vampire story.<BR><BR>	2000-01-10
US	52872836	R10XC73F0TCB83	0786903295	675710726	Player's Handbook Advanced Dungeons & Dragons (2nd Ed Fantasy Roleplaying)	Books	3	24	31	N	N	Content A+, Presentation D-	Since Amazon.com has lumped all the reviews from the Players Handbook and DM's Guide together, I shall consider them a singular work for the purposes of this review.<BR><BR> These books are necessary to begin playing  AD&amp;D, 2nd Edition. As such, they are excellent rulebooks which tell you  how to handle most situations (it's hard for a game designer to think of  rules for all the clever or stupid stuff your players are going to try) in  the game. <BR><BR> However, as a longtime player, I really wish I'd gotten  an extra copy of the old 2nd Edition books when they were still available,  rather than these new versions. Sure the rules are the same, but the format  is just terrible. The artwork has definitely taken a sharp downward turn.  And the spell list in the PH is no longer as easily scanned for quick  reference as the old edition was. Where the old edition listed spell level  at the top of the page, the reader now has to either know the spells or  find the next level headline to know what level he's looking at. The cover  art for both books is nice, but... where are the dragons?<BR><BR> Still,  it's a great game. Not without its flaws, but no game system is perfect,  regardless of what AD&amp;D's detractors would have you believe. The  various supplements and &quot;Complete X Handbook&quot; books give lots of  variations on the core ideas presented in these two books, so that two  mages might be completely different not only in spells and alignment, but  in the way they memorize spells. <BR><BR> Although this is not the best  publication of the game, these two books are necessary to play and worth  the read to play the game, if you don't mind lackluster artwork.	2000-01-10
US	52872836	R3G6LXXFT9M9D7	0880388188	704175684	The Complete Priest's Handbook, Second Edition (Advanced Dungeons & Dragons: Player's Handbook Rules Supplement #2113	Books	2	17	21	N	N	Whoever wrote this hated priests	Where 2nd Edition AD&amp;D endows fighters with the ability to (at first level) swing a longsword in each hand, potentially doing 28 points of damagae in a single round without counting Strength bonuses, the 2nd  Edition Priests handbook cuts a Priest's power in half. I didn't find a  single Priesthood that allowed it's followers to cast spells from all  spheres, and many were reduced in combat ability. The special abilities  added often come at the cost of the Priest's ability to Turn Undead  creatures.<BR><BR> In short, ignore the sample priesthoods, or at least  give them more spheres and/or abilities, if you want your players to still  be your friends.<BR><BR> The rest of the book is good. It provides mythos  creation guidelines, so if you don't wish to play in Forgotten Realms or  Greyhawk, you can create your own pantheon and mythology using the  guidelines in this book.<BR><BR> The kits are not all that great, one of  them even relying on the heavily flawed Martial Arts system from the  Player's Handbook. But with a little tinkering, you can use them. Just  about everything in here needs a little work, but it's not  unusable.<BR><BR> It's a good reference for DMs who are creating their game  world. For players, they will probably get little use out of it.	2000-01-10
US	52872836	RM0TOJ8ZADCQS	0345348680	75353792	The Wounded Land (The Second Chronicles of Thomas Covenant, Book 1)	Books	4	11	13	N	N	Good start to a darker fantasy series	Donaldson starts out his new series by allowing hints of the Land to leak out into the real world. Then he transports Covenant and Linden Avery to the Land. Only this time, the Land is sick. I won't say how or why, but the result is a very good, mildly depressing dark fantasy. Covenant is more  accepting of the existence of the Land in this book, but Linden is thrown  into confusion by it.<BR><BR>This series is more her story than Covenant's.  As Covenant was ill physically when he first entered the Land, Linden's  wounds are on the inside, and she struggles with them throughout the  trilogy. There's a lot of symbolism and allegory one can read into these  books. Or one can just enjoy them as a story of a small group of people  trying to restore a Land that once held joy, but is now the kind of place  where a man would have to sacrifice his own family to feed a village. Good  fantasy in a well-developed world.	2000-01-09
US	52872836	R350P754IVQFCV	0345316509	380323119	Job: A Comedy of Justice	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Insightful Fun From Cover To Cover	I had a great time reading this book. I originally read it in high school, and liked it, but didn't really get all the things it was saying. I recently re-read it and enjoyed everything I'd missed the first time.  Heinlein toys with the ideas of religion, life, death, love, human  suffering, and alternate realities in an entertainingly blasphemous,  fast-paced story. I highly recommend it to anyone who's ever questioned  what they've been told.	2000-01-07
US	52872836	R1OJAZ8O8FUOTR	034530988X	997219030	Friday	Books	2	31	46	N	N	Heinlein takes you for a very long ride	I can't say I really hated this novel. It just didn't really seem to be going anywhere. The main character didn't really have a clearly defined objective, and the book just sort of meanders episodically, rotating  supporting characters in and out throughout the novel like a revolving  door. He does keep the action moving, though. The free-love world Heinlein  seems to idealize is a given in his later novels, and so I wasn't as  shocked by it as some of those who reviewed this book before me. There are  a couple preconceptions one must be prepared for in the Heinlein universe:  sex is fun and everybody likes to do it as much as they can; and nobody  ever gets jealous or hurt by their lovers having sex with other  people.<BR><BR> Even expecting that in a Heinlein novel, it was still a bit  of a shock when the main character, the narrator, gets gang-raped within  the first few chapters, but doesn't really seem to mind. Although the book  isn't erotic in the least, Heinlein's casual acceptance that everybody is  sleeping together can be unsettling to an unprepared reader.<BR><BR> Friday  is a genetically engineered human (not a cyborg, as one of the above  reviews states), although for some reason the society she exists in does  not recognize genetically engineered humans as real people. To me, it was  hard to swallow the idea that people would hold this prejudice, because  there wasn't anything that was specificlly non-human about her. Since much  of the things that happen to her depend on accepting this premise, the book  was a little less enjoyable for this reason.<BR><BR> If you're looking for  a book which doesn't offer any real deep thoughts, but just takes the  reader on a winding path of near-constant action, then Friday fits that  bill nicely. There is not much more to recommend it, though.	2000-01-07
US	52872836	R3RCQS22LPVJVN	0345348699	157482235	The One Tree (The Second Chronicles of Thomas Covenant, Book 2)	Books	3	6	11	N	N	Never trust a man who uses &quot;uxorious&quot; in casual conversation	The first time I read this book, it was a trial to get through. Of course, I was 16 at the time. I recently re-read it and enjoyed it a lot more the second time around. The main problem I would cite is that it seems too  episodic, as if the many things that happen to the giantship are unrelated  and just serve to fill the book up as much as possible. Linden is the focus  of this story, as she is most of the second Trilogy, so don't wait for  Covenant to get into the action. He spends a good portion of the book out  of it.	2000-01-07
US	52872836	R3UZF1WWCNZT42	0563405775	73444925	Doctor Who: Alien Bodies	Books	2	2	6	N	N	Did I miss something?	This was the first of the BBC novels since &quot;The Eight Doctors&quot; which I didn't enjoy. Sam and the Doctor don't really seem to work well together in this story. And three quarters of the way through the book, it  occurred to me that nothing had actually HAPPENED yet, and probably  wouldn't before the end. There's a gratuitous chase, and lots of  flashbacks. There's a new alien race which has potential, but it's a little  confusing just what they can do or have done. The Shift is interesting. And  in the end, it turned out that my prediction was correct and nothing  actually did happen in the novel. There are a few Twin Peaks references  (the soldier character keeps saying that things &quot;aren't what they  seem&quot;) if you're into that. This book is not a must-have for the  casual Who reader (if there is such a thing).	2000-01-07
US	52872836	RT7656PYAQQO2	0345348656	150650131	Lord Foul's Bane (The Chronicles of Thomas Covenant the Unbeliever, Book 1)	Books	4	98	116	N	N	Best modern fantasy I've found	&quot;Lord Foul's Bane&quot; has many strengths to recommend it. It also has a number of shortcomings I would be remiss in not mentioning. I personally loved the series, moreso the second time around.<BR><BR>  Donaldson's hero, Thomas Covenant, is a leper and an outcast in his own  world. He has resigned himself to his life of disease (there was no cure  for leprosy when this was written) and solitiude, and desires nothing more  than to be left alone to live out his sentence. After an accident in town,  he finds himself transported to a fantastical place known only as the Land  where his disease is cured, and the most evil being in the Land challenges  Covenant to stop him from destroying the world. Much of this first book in  the series is spent on making Covenant as contemptible as possible, making  him cowardly, a rapist, selfish, and inconsiderate, but most of all  disbelieving in the world he has found himself in. Although Covenant just  wants the nightmare to be over, he finds that people see him as a  reincarnation of a long-dead hero, and put their faith in him. But in his  contemptiblity, Covenant is pitiable. It's hard not to feel bad for him at  times when people blame him for things that aren't his fault, or refuse to  understand his remorse at things that are. <BR><BR> The weaknesses of the  story lie in Donaldson's reliance on his Thesaurus and the fact that a  contemptible character scares a lot of readers off. As to the language, he  does at times go into a pointless string of synonyms, using words that no  normal person uses in conversation. I think of this as a weakness in the  novel, but not one that affects my overall view of it. More of a quirk of  the author.<BR><BR> I've thought about the question of whether or not  Covenant was actually taken to a fantasy Land or just imagined it in his  diseased brain. Most readers I've spoken with believe that we, the readers,  are to accept that the Land exists independently of Covenant and that he is  simply taken there because he is their legendary hero. I feel, however,  that there is no evidence to back this up, and there is a great deal of  evidence to support the idea that the Land is all in his head, and all the  people and parts of it are metaphorical representations of aspects of  Covenant's mind. <BR><BR> Either way, the story is a great epic fantasy  series, and I encourage people to put personal judgement of the character  aside (he's SUPPOSED to be despicible!) and enjoy the series for its own  merit.	2000-01-07
US	52872836	RFK810A5R9QN9	0590353403	667539744	Harry Potter And The Sorcerer's Stone	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Magically delicious	As a first book in a series, almost the first half of the book is devoted to setting up the story that has to happen later. Still, the plotlines of this second story are laid out early on, so the book does not seem to break from the origin-of-Harry-Potter to the story of the Sorcerer's Stone. That  alone is worth a couple stars.<br /><br /> I found the storytelling style  similar to that of Roald Dahl, who wrote Matilda, Charlie and the Chocolate  Factory, and many other children's stories. I think this is what has many  of the protesters upset. There are some things that happen in the book that  Americans have been conditioned to believe, over the last thirty years or  so, that we have to hide from children. Scary monsters, people getting  hurt, and generally nasty villains, for example. We seem to have sanitized  these things from our literature in favor of more  &quot;child-friendly&quot; story endings where nobody really gets hurt and  everything turns out OK, monsters aren't really evil but only  misunderstood, people we thought were dead come back, and the happy home is  preserved. Well, not in this book. Harry's Parents die early on in the  novel (we learn about this from other characters; we don't read it  happening) and they don't come back.<br /><br /> The story itself is great,  full of new ideas and new angles on old ideas. It inspires imagination in  the children and adults who read it. I can't understand why anyone would be  stupid enough to want to ban it in our schools. I thought the goal of a  school was to encourage children to think. I believe this book does that  successfully, as I watched my daughter try to puzzle out the mystery, and  even enjoying having been wrong about some her guesses when she finished  the book. It's a treat for children and adults!	2000-01-07
US	52872836	R213RUAKWPZMQG	0563405635	488874189	The Eight Doctors (Dr. Who Series)	Books	1	4	6	N	N	Skip this one	This should more properly be called &quot;Eight Doctors, One at a Time&quot; because unlike the televised episodes with the titles &quot;The N Doctors,&quot; the Eighth Doctor spends the book visiting one incarnation  at a time in order. I advise anyone trying to start the BBC line of Who  books to begin with &quot;Vampire Science.&quot; &quot;The Eight  Doctors&quot; is supposed to introduce the companion Sam, but she doesn't  do anything related to the story until the very end where she jumps into  the TARDIS (of which her casual acceptance is a bit strange to say the  least). You get a much better picture of Sam's character in &quot;Vampire  Science.&quot;	2000-01-07
US	52872836	R38ISIULWJV4HR	0812548051	361278280	Wizard's First Rule (Sword of Truth, Book 1)	Books	1	26	36	N	N	Good fantasy is so hard to find	Goodkind takes every fantasy cliche ever used, reduces the intelligence level, mixes in a generous amount of tedium, some graphic torture scenes, and the end result is a book that can be best used to hold open a door or  burn for a good three or four minutes. This book was so bad, I laughed  aloud at how stupid some parts were; the terminology of  &quot;additive&quot; (good) and &quot;subtractive&quot; (evil) magic; the  fact that the evil wizard is named &quot;Darken&quot;; the idea of someone  trying to outlaw fire AND SUCCEEDING; the evil guy making all red fruit  poison &quot;because children love red fruit.&quot; I can't believe I hung  in as long as I did, but I didn't finish. I also found that some of the  rules Goodkind establishes early on he breaks later, such as the nasty  predator animals (whose names I've forgotten) always being surrounded by  flies (the flies disappear later without explanation).<BR><BR> It seems you  don't need to tell a good story to be considered a good writer anymore; you  just have to write a long story. If you judge by quantity, this must be a  great series, because as far as I know, there are five 800-page books in  the series. If you prefer a little more originality than 'Star Wars meets  Wheel of Time,' perhaps you should look elsewhere.	2000-01-06
US	52872836	R3T8W8N5IU8BEJ	0553348981	919939441	Jitterbug Perfume	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Beets and 23s abound	This is the novel I usually use to introduce friends to Tom Robbins. It exemplifies his storytelling abilities and entertains from cover to cover. Several stories interweave throughout the novel, coming together at the end  for a fantastic finish. Robbins is the master of metaphor, and I enjoy  reading and re-reading all of his books. The only thing I don't like about  Tom Robbins is that he only puts out a book every five years or so.	2000-01-06
US	52872836	R1XQRGYGG6IP28	0426204875	9661808	Speed of Flight (Doctor Who)	Books	2	1	1	N	N	Subtle but in the end entertaining	Definitely not the best Doctor Who Missing Adventure, but it's got its good points. The story moves slowly, and there's not much action. The resolution of the chief bad guy's fate is a little bit of a  letdown.<BR><BR> If you're a fast reader who doesn't mind a more  slow-moving story, go ahead. If not, don't be afraid to skip this one.	2000-01-06
US	52872836	R1NNQ3KDZYO6O6	0563405813	161950225	Longest Day (Dr. Who Series)	Books	4	3	5	N	N	I've got metal legs!	This was one of the most enjoyable of the BBC Doctor Who books. At times it is somewhat dark and grim, and it's probably not the classic television-style Who (people seem to get hurt quite graphically). It's far  more serious in tone than most of the previous BBC books. This book  introduces a new species and begins a continuing plotline in the BBC range  (continued in Dreamstone Moon, then Seeing I). An interesting problem, and  a fascinating story. It starts out a little slow, but picks up fairly early  on. The title of this review is taken from the dialogue of a character in  the story, whom I found terribly amusing. I highly recommend this book, and  encourage readers to undertake the three-part saga it begins.	2000-01-06
US	52872836	R123G1EYWDBTQG	0812502124	752150633	Prentice Alvin (Tales of Alvin Maker, Book 3)	Books	1	12	21	N	N	The Maker series drops the ball	This is where the series gets bad. The first half of the book is going along fine, but I cringed every time the plow was mentioned. This was the same feeling I got with the Xenocide ending. The characters come up with  something that they can conceive of in their minds, and so the laws of  phyisics bend to their conception. So it is with Alvin, who theorizes a  ridiculous way to become a real Maker. And because he can conceive of it in  his poorly educated mind, this somehow makes it possible. I really enjoyed  the first two books in the series, but this one just left a bad aftertaste.	2000-01-05
US	52872836	RZS2FQPS6HTJB	0812533313	787762089	The Worthing Saga	Books	4	61	66	N	N	Good reading material for deep thought	The synopsis described above isn't really all that accurate.<BR><BR> This first half to 2/3 of this book is a single story composed of about a dozen vignettes, united under the premise of a boy being given these scenes as  dreams by two strange space travellers. The common theme of this story is  that suffering exists because it enables us to grow. The characters in the  vignettes suffer, and the dreaming boy suffers with them in his dreams,  which causes problems in his waking life.<BR><BR> The last third of the  book is a series of (9?) short stories set in the same universe. Some  stories are new, some elaborating on stories told briefly or mentioned in  the first part. The short stories don't concentrate on suffering so much as  escaping reality, and how that lessens us as human beings. Most of them  have down endings, but are no less thought-provoking than the main  tale.<BR><BR> I didn't agree with Card's premise, that God allows suffering  because it makes us stronger. But I found the religious ideas presented in  a comfortably secular way, such that I didn't feel he was pushing religion  on the reader, but instead encouraging the reader to think about it, and  consider his premise. Card's writing style is always easy to get into, and  I tore through the first hundred pages before I realised that I'd been  sucked in.<BR><BR> Hearing that Card is a devout Mormon might scare away  some potential readers with strong religious views of their own, but I feel  that his style transcends divisions such as this. Card is an expert  storyteller, and is worth reading regardless of one's own theology.	2000-01-05
US	52872836	RGN4QCVNK6VX8	0563555688	10325610	Doctor Who and the Taint (Doctor Who Series)	Books	2	0	1	N	N	This could have been a whole lot better	After reading Collier's &quot;Longest Day&quot; I really expected a better story from him. His previous novel is very well written and enjoyable. This one, however, is just dull. The bad guys seem to be without a real motive,  as if they're being evil just because they like evil, and the leader talks  like a cheesy Bond villain. He also gets his Crowley lore all wrong, as if  Collier just heard a few quotes from the man (perhaps in USENet posters'  sig files?) and decided to use them as bad-guy dialogue without actually  finding the quotes in their original context. Fitz is an interesting  character, but only seems to irritate the Doctor and Sam, and has no  credible reason to tag along with them at the end (that's not really a  spoiler, since the book is billed as the introduction of Fitz, the new  companion). In all, if it weren't for the introduction of Fitz, I'd  recommend skipping this one in the series. But if you need to see each  companon in their first appearance, go ahead and get it. It's not nearly as  bad as &quot;The Eight Doctors.&quot;	2000-01-04
US	52872836	R2Y9RVBYITXO9M	0563405864	482641523	Seeing I (Doctor Who Series)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Sounds familiar, but still a good read	Let's see, the Doctor's companion has to deal with living in one place and time, years pass, the Doctor is imprisoned, and alien insectoids are involved somehow. Now which novel am I talkng about?<BR> A. Set Piece<BR>  B. Seeing I<BR> C. All of the above<BR> The answer is C, of course.<br />That  said, I really enjoyed both novels. There was more focus on the Doctor  trying to escape this prison, and although it happens several times, it's  new and interesting each time. The changes that Sam goes through while  trying to carve out a life for herself on an alien world are reminiscient  of our own experiences in finding our way as new adults in our own world.  This book went really quickly for me, and I was done before I knew it, and  wanted more. The Orman/Blum gestalt always produces thoughtful,  entertaining, and interesting stories, and this is no exception. Buy it  now!	2000-01-04
