US	52872993	RB355TK023SYX	1894965108	29318946	The Lost Thing	Books	5	39	40	N	N	Simply wonderful	It is difficult to classify this superb book.  It is classified as a children's book, but it will have appeal to all ages.  To a certain extent it reminds me of the great works of art by Graeme Base and John Sceszka and Lane Smith, but again it is different.  The imagies are almost surreal - certainly reminiscent of Dali on an odd day.<br /><br />A simple tale, without a moral?  Perhaps so, perhaps not - I like to think it is a comment on all we have lost, and found, and let go again.<br /><br />The illustrations are magnificent, quirky and engaging, and you notice different things with each reading (or viewing?).  Our hero is a simple soul, the lost thing also simple and yet remarkably complex.  My favourite part is where our hero gives it something to eat once he has discovered what it likes, and the food he is offering it is christmas decorations!<br /><br />It is an absolutely delightful book.  Share it with your children, or your partner, or your best friend.  Or keep it for yourself.  It isn't a book that is easy to classify, but it is definitely a keeper.<br /><br />I recommend it highly.	2005-08-06
US	52872993	R3789GXX4JVZKW	1413747167	80629383	King without an Empire	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Space travel as a private passion!	This is a rich and detailed science fiction novel - quite a feat of the imagination! <br />Our hero, Michael Bassett, decides to use his phenomenal wealth to embark upon some space exploration. Unfortunately, I don't feel that we ever really get to know Michael - it is difficult to get a feel for what motivates him, and what he thinks. I am nosy, and really like to know the characters in the books I read inside out! Interestingly, we are, from time to time, given little insights into other characters with very minor roles in the tale, which adds richness to the dialogue, but only serves to remind us of how little we know about Michael Bassett.<br />Paul Collins has offered a wealth of information in some areas, such as the development of space science from the times of Nazi Germany, and clearly has researched the topic in depth. But as the novel progressed, I found that the scenarios had become more and more complex, and as such I began to find the story rather hard going. I appreciate that good science fiction is incredibly detailed and complex - perhaps my taste is simply not suited to this genre!<br />So all in all it is a good novel, not really appealing to my rather specific tastes, but well structured and written. For people who like their science fiction futuristic and space bound!	2005-08-04
US	52872993	R1KXHCIXMIFAHD	1413747167	80629383	King without an Empire	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Complex and imaginative	This is a rich and detailed science fiction novel - quite a feat of the imagination!<br /><br />Our hero, Michael Bassett, decides to use his phenomenal wealth to embark upon some space exploration.  Unfortunately, I don't feel that we ever really get to know Michael - it is difficult to get a feel for what motivates him, and what he thinks.  I am nosy, and really like to know the characters in the books I read inside out!  Interestingly, we are, from time to time, given little insights into other characters with very minor roles in the tale, which adds richness to the dialogue, but only serves to remind us of how little we know about Michael Bassett.<br /><br />Paul Collins has offered a wealth of information in some areas, such as the development of space science from the times of Nazi Germany, and clearly has researched the topic in depth.  But as the novel progressed, I found that the scenarios had become more and more complex, and as such I began to find the story rather hard going.  I appreciate that good science fiction is incredibly detailed and complex - perhaps my taste is simply not suited to this genre!<br /><br />So all in all it is a good novel, not really appealing to my rather specific tastes, but well structured and written.  For people who like their science fiction futuristic and space bound!	2005-08-04
US	52872993	R3TAJFADVNJSKZ	0099379406	952200286	Family Feeling	Books	2	2	2	N	N	Predictible and an interesting printing error....	This is a fairly standard romance set in the \\"romantic\\" coal fields of Northern Wales.  The 3 main characters are linked either by blood  common passion, and this should make for a more interesting story, but alas, it is entirely predictible.<br /><br />What is of interest is that in my copy, Dot's father has a mistress called Edie, and thus she is called for at least two thirds of the book, when she is suddenly referred to as Blanche.  I had to re-read a few pages to ensure that she was indeed one and the same character.  Poor editing perhaps?  Either way, it doesn't make the book any more interesting.<br /><br />It is certainly an entertaining enough read for lovers of the genre, but if you're looking for a far more spectacular book on the life and times of the hardy and brave men who worked the mines, and the women who loved them, try \\"How Green Was My Valley\\" by Richard Llewellyn.	2005-04-18
US	52872993	RE7P2DBAE8APJ	1565540328	23397065	His Father's House	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Has promise, but doesn't quite make it	This is an interesting novel which starts out with the dicovery of a fragile hand written letter and a picture of a German woman and her two children from the WW1 era.  From here there is a journey of emotions - first to return the photograph to its original owner, and secondly for the primary character to unravel some of the mystery of his father's past.<br /><br />A very interesting start to a novel, but somehow in attempting to make comment on a divided Germany and how people lived in the East and West, it misses a beat.  There are no strong observations one way or another, and even the family mystery is easily guessed.<br /><br />Overall I found this novel quite disappointing.  It could have been quite something, dealing as it does with a period of history that is barely touched by western novels, but it falls short.  It is neither a great mystery or a great historical novel, but it could have been both.	2005-04-03
US	52872993	RGIQ5UBSY395V	0671731424	481568206	The Wolf's Hour	Books	3	3	6	N	N	Enjoyable, but disappointing as well	I have loved all of Robert McCammon's books that I have read.  \\"Swan Song\\" and \\"Boy's Life\\" are true masterpieces, of any genre.  And so I started this book with a great deal of anticipation.<br /><br />I was disappointed.  Sure it is an enjoyable read, in a rip-roaring \\"boy's own adventure\\" mould.  The character is well drawn, and I thought the flash backs where we learn of how he becomes a werewolf were very well done - in fact the story would have been much stronger had it delved more into the lives of his pack, because these characters are by far the most interesting.<br /><br />What I ultimately found disappointing was the engagement with the Nazis.  I found the bad guys somewhat trite (when I feel they always should be THE most interesting characters in a novel), and some of the action scenes so unexciting that I found myself skimming through the pages - never a good thing for an action novel.<br /><br />So, yes it was entertaining, and yes I enjoyed it, but...... Mr McCammon can do MUCH better, and has on nearly every other occasion.	2005-03-22
US	52872993	R30HPVQTXX9DJF	0755304047	621000408	Passion	Books	3	23	25	N	N	Interesting and sometimes compelling	This is a very good novel about the great poets of the Regency years - Byron, Shelley and Keats, and told from a very different perspective - that of the women from different walks of life and social standings, and who loved them.  Some are quite famous in their own right (we have \\"Frankenstein\\" thanks to Mary Shelley), some, like Lady Caroline Lamb were considered quite scandalous, others lived far less prominent lives.<br /><br />However, it is not a novel without flaws.  There is quite a bit of focus on Fanny Brawne, who loved Keats, and yet that great poet doesn't enter the picture till quite late in the novel, and only briefly.  Sometimes the novel can be seen as a little disjointed - some chapters chop and change between the characters and you have read some way before you realise who we are reading about.<br /><br />And yet there are times when it is a beautiful book, and you feel quite drawn into the loves and lives of these beautiful and ultimately doomed people.<br /><br />This is not a romantic novel by any stretch of the imagination, and indeed it seems there was very little romance in the loves of these great poets.  But they certainly had strong women, and it is these women, and how they coped with the places in history, that makes it a good read.<br /><br />As a spin off, it would be good to have a volume of poetry handy - I found that I wanted to look at Byron's \\"Childe Harold\\" on more than one occasion!	2005-01-25
US	52872993	R1VE16B2JPP5CY	0061008737	244235272	The House Next Door	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Eerie and lingers with you	This is certainly not your average haunted house book.  There are no nasty shock tactics, no gruesome depictions of gore, and no hideous monsters waiting in dark corners.  There is just a magnificent modern and newly built house, which in its own quiet way wreaks havoc on the lives of its unfortunate 3 successive owners, and in turn, the peaceful and prosperous neighbourhood in which it is built.<br /><br />What is clever in this novel is the introduction of things that are happening in our society, including some quite horrific things, which are frequently and quietly ignored if not accepted.  This forms an eerie basis for the things that are to come.  The unnatural closeness of a father and his daughter; the spectre of the loss of a child and the resultant mental illness; the suggestion of domestic violence.  The author weaves these themes cleverly into the occupants of the house next door, and you just know that some further bad things are going to happen.<br /><br />At its best level this book is a psychological chiller.  The families involved clearly have issues and unfortunate lives - are the things that happen to them simply further misfortunes?  Are the caring neighbours who begin to recognise the growing menace that the house next door represents themselves slipping into paranoia and their own mental illness?  It is a very clever book - very clever indeed.<br /><br />This is a book that will stay with you for a long time.  I find myself considering its themes of quiet madness in leafy suburbia, intertwined with the great gothic themes of a haunted house, and I think that it is one of the best books I have read in ages, and one that I recommend highly.	2005-01-17
US	52872993	RR58FWWHAP7E	0316855499	737138773	Last of the Dandies: The Fashionable Life of Count D'Orsay	Books	4	4	6	N	N	Entertaining view of stardom in interesting times	THis is a rather unusual book.  It looks at a time in history where there was still enormous class distinction, and among the \\"upper class\\" there was scandal galore.  And among the best of them was the Comte D'Orsay, handsome and witty Frenchman, who scandalised society with his wit, bisexuality and flagrant affiars with Lady Blessington, one of the beauties of her age.<br /><br />But this is not just a flippant story of a great scandal.  Amongst D'Orsay's comtemporaries were Byron, Beau Brummel, the Bourbon Kings of Europe, and the descendents of Napoleon.  These were interestng times, when Europe as a whole was deciding her fate.  There are enough interesting snippets of greater history to make this book worth reading.  But it is the letters and journals that make this book come alive.<br /><br />This is a time in history that I was not particularly familiar with, and to view it through the eyes of these flamboyant and wealthy characters, give it an interest and piquancy that nothing else could.	2004-12-29
US	52872993	R2F8JOUMJPIH7X	0671024728	979997746	The Second Angel	Books	2	1	2	N	N	Detailed future world, but.....	The future world depicted in \\"The Second Angel\\" is one of the most finely detailed visions of what is to come that I have encountered in a novel of this type for some time.  The attention to detail is wonderful, and the explanation of climate change, the nature of the virus that has most of the world ostracised from the privaleged healthy people and the world they occupy, is very fine.  However, it is the story that is set in this detailed world that is sorely lacking.<br /><br />Our hero is driven by revenge against the company that has killed his wife and child, after he is percieved as a risk to the company's greater good.  This is always an excellent premise for a thriller such as this, but the characterisations are so poor, that we are barely aware that he has a family, and it requires a great stretch of faith to believe that he has such passions as to be aroused by this dreadful act.  Like so many novels with poor characterisations, it is the bad guy, the psychopathic head of security who is by far the most interesting character, and even then we get only a glimpse of what makes him tick.<br /><br />Finally the story itself gets very bogged down by the convoluted turns the story takes when he is breaking into the blood bank on the moon, and whereas this should have been exciting, it was most unsatisfactory, even tedious, and the ending itself was abrupt, almost as if the author had no idea how to end it.<br /><br />I have given this 2 stars as it is a novel that could have been truly great; however it seems that the author could not adequately populate the stunning world he had created.	2004-12-06
US	52872993	R1GOM4M57EYHQ3	0374214891	352501681	Mr Golightly's Holiday: A Novel	Books	3	12	12	N	N	Clever and thought provoking, but.....	Salley Vickers' story of Mr Golightly's holiday is a gentle and clever book which allows us all to consider the nature of faith and how God may view the complicated every day lives that we all lead.  The characters are interesting (if a little pallid) in their routine kinds of lives; the village is believable, and if you don't know the key to the story you can have a bit of fun trying to work out who Mr Golightly is, what is his business, and why has he lost his only son (not really too difficult to work out).<br /><br />However, it is that very gentle cleverness that means that this book is somewhat slow at times, and in places I felt this rather hard going.  I also felt the ending somewhat contrived, almost as if Ms Vickers wasn't sure how to finish the book.<br /><br />It is certainly an entertaining read, and a good story, but I feel that it fell somewhat short of its potential.  I feel that Ms Vickers' undoubted writing talents are better portrayed in \\"Miss Garnet's Angel\\", which is a far superior book.	2004-10-14
US	52872993	R2DAGLWGALJEZ	0743257731	437916513	1215: The Year of Magna Carta	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Excellent overview of a fascinating time	What is really great about this book is not that it gives you an insight into the Magna Carta, one of the most famous documents of all time, but that it looks at the time in which it was written.  And this is rich fodder for some really great story telling.  Of course the Magna Carta is discussed in context, and written in its entirety at the back of the book (the first time I have read it), but it is the story of how it came to be that is the real meat in this fabulous book.<br /><br />First we have the Plantagenets, and what a fascinating family they were.  John was on the throne in 1215, but his mother, father, and assorted siblings were among the most interesting people English history have to offer.  The entire family provided the greatest soap opera scripts ever written!<br /><br />Then we have the local aristocracy.  Driven by John's fickle nature (and who could blame him with such a family!) they were faithful, faithess, loyal and treacherous all, some all at once.<br /><br />And then we have the local times themselves.  There are chapters on the church, justice and how the everyday people lived their lives.  The aristocracy lived exceptionally well of course, perhaps better than we in the 21st century realise.<br /><br />All in all this is an absolutely fascinating snapshot of an interesting year in a turbulent time.  And it is even more interesting to speculate how events so long ago impact on the way we live our lives today.  This is a great book - entertaining, thoughtful and fascinating.  What more could you ask?	2004-10-06
US	52872993	RK9I6TYG8FIV8	0553801309	768428518	A Place of Hiding	Books	3	4	5	N	N	My first Elizabeth George and there are loose ends.......	I was given this book by a friend who could not believe that a book obsessive like me had read nothing by Elizabeth George.  I'm glad she did - I found it entertaining, and I have to confess that I didn't truly figure out who was the murderer until Ms George was ready to let me know.  I had my suspicions of course, but they were vague, and there were all those great red herrings thrown in for good measure.<br /><br />What I found most unsatisfying was that there were a number of behaviours of the murdered man that led to suspects aplenty, but in the end there was no explanation at all for some of his more bizarre behaviours.  There is a moment when his sister realises, but alas it is not shared with the reader.  This could have been a truly fantastic novel if all of these loose ends were resolved to everyone's satisfaction and understanding.<br /><br />Similarly the enticing subject of the German occupation and what it did to decent men and women is touched upon, but never really delved into. This could have given the novel a depth that it truly needed.<br /><br />Having said that, it kept me engrossed enough to finish, and I will certainly be trying others of this genre by Ms George.	2004-09-26
US	52872993	R43W55FQHLLKF	0843948507	749306061	The Traveling Vampire Show	Books	3	1	2	N	N	Doesn't live up to its promise	I really like Richard Laymon -I think he's really talented, and he sure knows how to write a scary novel.  And this is surely scary enough, but it somehow misses out on the great promise that it isthe relationship between the young main characters.<br /><br />The story is intelligent enough, and in fact the entire concept of the scary show, in the field of horrors, in a quiet town is the stuff of truly great horror.  But this is more than that - it is a novel of friendship and the things that we can get ourselves into when we're not quite children, and not yet adults.<br /><br />Alas this really falls short.  If you want to read a novel which develops these friendships in a far superior manner, you cannot go by Stephen King's \\"It\\".  However, if you want a quick read, and a quick scare, then come visit the Travelling Vampire Show some time soon.	2004-08-19
US	52872993	RVVOQR8DIGUS6	0670033332	293714732	Olivia Joules and the Overactive Imagination	Books	3	28	28	N	N	Fast paced but misses something	I adored the Bridget Jones diaries, which I think are among the cleverest of the genre, so it was with great anticipation that I picked up Helen Fielding's latest effort.  I was disappointed.<br />Sure the book delivers all that it promises - fast paced action in the beautiful parts of the world, potentially evil terrorists (or playboys?), big terrorist attacks, sub plots and red herrings.  But somewhere along the way, I really began to find the book was quite hard going.  I think I just stopped being interested in, or caring about our hero Olivia.<br />It is certainly mildly entertaining, and as a smallish book it is a quick read, great for lying on a beach somewhere.  But I think it is also a great opportunity missed.  Perhaps it will translate better into a movie - this is a screenplay waiting in the wings.	2004-06-03
US	52872993	RRQSHS8955Z8K	155652532X	829916644	Katherine (Rediscovered Classics)	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Absolutely magnificent	&quot;Katherine&quot; is Anya Seton's finest book, which is high praise considering her talent. She is a very fine writer with excellent attention to detail and historical accuracy, as well the ability to make the characters come vividly alive.<br />This is of course a very fine and entertaining story. There is our heroine Katherine, with all of her trials and tribulations, and who finds herself unexpectedly thrust into a turbulent life with a turbulent royal family! It is interesting to note that through the children she had with John of Gaunt, she is a direct ancestress of all of ruling Kings and Queens of England from that time on (and a great many members of European royal families as well)! Katherine made her mark on history in many, many ways.<br />This is an utterly charming and beautiful book. I was about 12 when I first picked it up and was immediately enchanted by the writing, the adventure and the history, and return to it time and time again. The book is peppered with other interesting historical characters - for example Geoffrey Chaucer was married to Katherine's sister, and appears from time to time full of wit and stories.<br />So read it for yourself, and introduce it to a young lady in your life. You could not bestow a finer gift.	2004-05-22
US	52872993	RDTOFFB9F02CH	0767915747	122269824	Holy Cow: An Indian Adventure	Books	5	7	10	N	N	Tongue in cheek look at a very alien world	Sarah MacDonald is an Australian journalist who finds herself living in India after following her true love (another journalist).  She has had only one earlier visit there, and is not sure that she is terribly keen on the whole idea.<br />The entire book could be called &quot;The Trials and Tribulations of Sarah in a Foreign Land&quot; because this is essentially what it is.  Bored with her life and the absence of her man, who is frequently away covering assignments, Sarah investigates and embraces all sorts of different elements of Indian life and culture, sometimes seriously, and sometimes quite flippantly, but always with respect.<br />The outcome of this is usually very funny, and sometimes quite unbelievable.  I was given this book as a friend who knew of my desire to visit India (I have yet to do so) and at the beginning I was not sure I would ever go, by the middle I was quite entranced, and by the end I still would love to visit.<br />Sure this isn't a politically correct observation of another culture and the millions of people who live their lives in a country so completely different to our sanitised Western World, but it is entertaining, and it is certainly an eye-opener.	2004-05-10
US	52872993	R348FLY4SS8WPJ	0141390662	413671260	Consuming Passions: A History of English Food and Appetite (Classic History)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Delicious!!!	For anyone interested in history - either of Europe on a grand scale or domestic life on a small scale, this is the book for you.  Philippa Pullar does a fantastic job explaining what was eaten, how it was cooked, who ate what and when, and even better - at the back there are the genuine recipes!<br />It is a really lovely book - not just for historians, buit also for us who eagerly devour historical novels, and wonder what on earth it is that they are eating in those meticulously described banquet scenes.  Now we can know, and if we are really so inclined, go and whip it up in our kitchens.<br />Add it to your library!	2004-05-10
US	52872993	R1MSHFCWZ1ZLAY	0312977026	551641485	K-Pax	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Just delightful	This is a wonderful little book - it is relatively short, insightful, witty, and best of all gives us a unique insight to the fascinating subjects of mental health and interstellar travel.  The story is simple enough - the main character prot (no capitalisations except for other planets!) claims to be from the planet K-Pax, but is he simply a mentally traumatised man called Robert?  This is a very clever book which has you thinking yes and no to both of these questions as you read along.<br />Another very clever plot devise is that the author writes in the first person, and refers to himself as the psychiatrist who is treating prot/Robert.  This is done with such skill and candour that you can almost get drawn into thinking that this is a true case study of a doctor who is relating the story of his most fascinating subject.  It is very, very clever.<br />Finally, it is also very uplifting.  Some of prot's observations and advice to his fellow psychiatric inmates changes their lives almost exclusively for the better - somewhat simplisticly sure, but hey, this is a novel for entertainment, and here it hits the mark very well.<br />I recommend it highly.	2004-03-14
US	52872993	R2AMHGE6TG74PS	1931561648	798265328	The Time Traveler's Wife	Books	3	9	11	N	N	Interesting but misses something	I bought this book on the basis of the high reviews, and I found it entertaining enough, but in the end I must say that I feel that the story lacked something critical. And that critical gap is the entire story in itself.<br />This may seem a strange thing to say, as it is quite a hefty tome, but essentially very little happens in this book.  It is a love story indeed, but I feel that the elements of the main characters' love for each other are not well developed, and as other critics have observed seem to focus on their sex life.  I feel that given Henry's pre-disposition to disappear to other times, some of his adventures could have been a little more deeply explored, as could have Clare's interaction with friends and family as she waits for her unpredictable lover.  Particularly odd is how the very concepts of time travel are skimmed over - sometimes Henry meets his older/younger self; sometimes he remembers things/sometimes not, and there is never any real explanation for his sometimes bizarre and violent behaviour in some of his travels.<br />Perhaps the author wished to show the impact of this time travel on people struggling to maintain normal lives - alas this doesn't make for particularly thrilling reading.<br />Lastly, this is a really innovative book, and a brave attempt to cross the boundaries of romance and science fiction.  It is worth reading for these reasons, but I was disappointed.	2004-01-19
US	52872993	R34VSZW9MIUGXA	0440225108	7077895	The Plague Tales	Books	3	2	3	N	N	Had promise but misses something	This novel certainly has an interesting premise, comparing and linking the horrors of the medieval Black Death with the equally horrific prospect of the plague in the not too distant future.  But somehow I found that there was insiffient detail in each of the stories to really hold my attention.<br />The medieval story is by far the better tale, even though there are some small historical inaccuracies (for example, Alejandro our hero treats a patient early in the book with eucalyptus, which would be hard as this Australian plant didn't arrive in Europe until it was retrieved by explorers in the 1700s).  Alejandro is a character that we can identify with, a Spanish Jew who is fighting for his life and thirsting for knowledge.  But even so I felt that the characters who surrounded him were simply not well enough explored to allow us to really identify with the impact of the plague.  Geraldine Brooks manages this exceptionally well in her superb &quot;Year of Wonders&quot;.<br />As for the futuristic phase of the book, this is also interesting, but again there is insufficient character development to allow us to really sympathise with our far more modern hero Janie.  And there is really no real discussion of how a modern plague would impact on a society which is obsessed with keeping disease at bay.  In addition, the future is 2005, perhaps too soon for me to identify with this alternative future.  For the epitome of storytelling about the horrors of plague amongst modern times, you can't go past Stephen King's &quot;The Stand&quot;.<br />All in all its an entertaining read, and certainly Ms Benson is a talented writer, but I still feel something is missing.  Perhaps it was a little too ambitious.	2004-01-13
US	52872993	R16Y9XQBJ8ZKH3	0871139006	748412016	The Mammoth Cheese: A Novel	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Interesting tale of small town life in &quot;different&quot; times	There have been several reviews which deal very well with the plot, so I will not replicate it here, except to say that the two major events, the arrival of the 11 live born multiple-birth babies and the manufacture of the title's mammoth cheese are the central events of this well crafted novel.  But the real richness of the book is in the fabulous characters that Sheri Holman gives us to sympathise with, get annoyed with, and ultimately feel some satisfaction with.<br />And they are great characters too.  There is poor Manda who finds herself in IVF hell.  There is Margaret, the somewhat eccentric cheese maker who clings to the old life and her somewhat prickly teenaged daughter Polly.  There is August the Jefferson devotee and his father the Pastor who somehow seems to be in the middle of all that drives the town and the people who live in it.  By the end of the book you feel as if you know these people quite well, and I find that it is this talent that makes me really enjoy a novel.<br />There have been some criticism of elements of this book, and it certainly isn't perfect, but it is a really lovely story, well written, and I am happy to recommend it.	2004-01-06
US	52872993	R24VICNW6ORIXG	0060925493	836757152	Feather Crowns	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Somewhat disappointing	This is an interesting story of the early notoriety and heartbreak that surrounded the family of North America's first live birth quins, and an equally interesting study of how everyday people can be drawn into the excitement and tragedy of such an event.  Descriptions of the times and early media interest are well done, but as the book progresses and the family sinks into tragedy, I feel the story loses some of its impact, and I struggled to finish the story.<br />This is not to say that the characters are unsympathetic, or that the reader cannot identify with their plight, but more that as they struggle to deal with their lives, interest in their lives begins to wane.<br />Sheri Holman's &quot;The Mammoth Cheese&quot; deals with a similar topic in modern times, but is by far the better book in my opinion.	2004-01-06
US	52872993	R289F7H9O9DNW5	0752219383	225518198	Danger Uxb	Books	3	5	5	N	N	Pragmatic view of exceptional heroism	It is difficult to think of life where bombs raining from the sky were an everyday event, but this was London in World War II.  As well as the horror of the explosions, there were the bombs that did not detonate, and the brave men who literally risked their lives to defuse them.  This is their story.<br />It is a well written book, but has something of the British understatement in it - where the sheer horror of the deaths of these men is underplayed, and, in my opinion the celebration of their heroism is not made enough of.  There is one story of a man who waded through toxic mud seven times to defuse a bomb in a factory because dangerous gasses meant that he couldn't do it in one take.  He was awarded a medal for this, as were so many of his compatriates in similar circumstances, but somehow I felt that there was more to his story than what is listed here.  There are so many stories like this one - absolutely horrifying, really amazing brave stories, and whereas this is a touching and apt tribute, I think their tales need a book that shouts their stories from the roof tops.	2003-11-24
US	52872993	R25EF9MPJ3HKG4	1568523971	832975269	Flight of the Romanovs	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Fascinating story of the "other" Romanovs	As a history fan I am of course familiar with the tragic tale of the fall of the Romanovs and the killings of Nicholas and Alexandra and their children.  And of course I was aware that the Romanovs were quite a sprawling family, with lots of Grand Dukes and Duchesses, but I did not know a great deal about these individuals, who are all equally fascinating in their own right - and often even more so, as Nicholas and Alexandra enjoyed a quiet life.<br />The book commences with the assasination of Alexander II and the ascent to the throne of his son Alexander III.  From here we get to know of the young Nicki (later to be Tsar) and his other siblings, including Olga, who had a life of some hardship but did not complain until she died in her 80s.  The book covers the revoltion of course, but for those readers wanting to know more about that and the impact on the immediate royal family, I recommend Robert Massie's excellent \\"Nicholas and Alexandra\\".  What I found of more interest was how the extended royal family fared, some being executed the Bolsheviks, some enduring amazing hardship and escapes, and others being saved by sheer luck.<br />The final part of the book deals with the remaining Romanovs in exile, and examines the interaction with the competing family groups and individuals who laid claim to the now empty throne.  These characters include Kyrill, who is the ancestor of George, the current claimant, and Dimitri, the ultimate playboy who had an affair with Coco Chanel and married an American heiress.<br />This book is a reminder of how revoltion and war can change the worlds of so many people, and how that change had spread and impacted through a Europe which was also in the throes of dramatic change.  We must remember that the Romanovs were descended from or connected by marriage to most of the other royal houses in Europe, and there were many political and dynastic implications of the fall of the Romanovs.    This is a fasinating story about fascinating people in a time when the world was turned upside down.	2003-10-23
US	52872993	R28E0568QGKXAZ	1568523971	832975269	Flight of the Romanovs	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Fascinating story of the "other" Romanovs	As a history fan I am of course familiar with the tragic tale of the fall of the Romanovs and the killings of Nicholas and Alexandra and their children.  And of course I was aware that the Romanovs were quite a sprawling family, with lots of Grand Dukes and Duchesses, but I did not know a great deal about these individuals, who are all equally fascinating in their own right - and often even more so, as Nicholas and Alexandra enjoyed a quiet life.<br />The book commences with the assasination of Alexander II and the ascent to the throne of his son Alexander III.  From here we get to know of the young Nicki (later to be Tsar) and his other siblings, including Olga, who had a life of some hardship but did not complain until she died in her 80s.  The book covers the revoltion of course, but for those readers wanting to know more about that and the impact on the immediate royal family, I recommend Robert Massie's excellent \\"Nicholas and Alexandra\\".  What I found of more interest was how the extended royal family fared, some being executed the Bolsheviks, some enduring amazing hardship and escapes, and others being saved by sheer luck.<br />The final part of the book deals with the remaining Romanovs in exile, and examines the interaction with the competing family groups and individuals who laid claim to the now empty throne.  These characters include Kyrill, who is the ancestor of George, the current claimant, and Dimitri, the ultimate playboy who had an affair with Coco Chanel and married an American heiress.<br />This book is a reminder of how revoltion and war can change the worlds of so many people, and how that change had spread and impacted through a Europe which was also in the throes of dramatic change.  We must remember that the Romanovs were descended from or connected by marriage to most of the other royal houses in Europe, and there were many political and dynastic implications of the fall of the Romanovs.  This is a fascinating story about fascinating people in a time when the world was turned upside down.le in a time when the world was turned upside down.	2003-10-23
US	52872993	RF6WTZ4BB959M	0345467493	257610007	Death in Holy Orders (Adam Dalgliesh Mystery Series #11)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Keeps you guessing!!	This is the first P.D. James book that I have read and clearly I have been depriving myself of some very thrilling and cleverly constructed murder mysteries, which do more than keep the reader turning the pages.  This is a well constructed murder/mystery, with not just one death, but 4!  The book opens with the death of a young man training to be a priest in an isolated seminary on the rugged English coast.  Is it suicide?  Murder?<br />Despite a coroner's inquest, the super competent Inspector Dalgleish comes to investigate further, at the request of the man's father.  While there he beomes emborioled in the other deaths, only one of which is obviously murder, committed while he is staying at the seminary.  Are all of these deaths connected, and why would anyone want all of these people dead?<br />This is a really complex story, with nearly all of the characters having some reason to either hate the murdered man, or reason to implicate someone else.  I didn't guess who the murderer was until the author wanted me to, and I think that this is fantastic in really good murder mysteries (I hate working out who did it in too short a period of time).<br />The reason I have given this fine book 4 stars (well, really 4.5) is that I wasn't really convinced with the motive for the murder when it was finally solved.  I guess it was plausible, but nowhere as strong as I had expected.  As for the other deaths, well you'll have to read the book to work it out!  It is well worth reading, and I shall find more of Ms Jame's books to devour!	2003-10-20
US	52872993	R2VHC73SYUKILE	0553560220	588228942	Illusion	Books	5	17	18	N	N	A very clever and entertaining read	The adventures of the Exalted Eliste are very entertaining indeed.  Our heroine is appropriately fesity, the settings well drawn, and the other characters who populate her world are interesting and believable.  But what makes this story so different, and really quite entertaining, is that it is really a tale of suffering and redemption following the French Revolution, but in a different world and time.  Following this, everything that Eliste knows and holds to be true is swept away in fear and violence, and her struggle to survive in this changing world is the centrepiece of the book.<br />Eliste's world is not France of course, and the King and Queen are not Louis and Marie Antoinette, but they may as well be (though they have no children).  The strict formalities that surrounded the French Court are faithfully related here, and you come to believe in this society where the Exalted lived just as the aristocracy did in France.  Anyone who is familiar with the French Revolution will find this very clever - the reader can indulge in a game of &quot;find the characters&quot; - Marat for instance, who spent most of his time in a bath due to an unpleasant skin condition, is transformed into the beggar leader Fungus (who as the name suggests has an equally unpleasant skin condition).  Even the guillotine is transformed into something far more nasty - a machine called Kokette with enormous spikes and needs of its own!<br />Interspersed with all this is some magic, some terrible hardship (the author does not shirk from some rather graphic descriptions of hardship and deprivation), and of course love.  Eliste travels a rocky road from a spoilt young lady to a woman with rather formiddable skills and fortitude.<br />This is a different, clever and entertaining book.  It is quite long, but thankfully keeps your attention for the whole time.  I recommend it highly for people who enjoy a great story, fabulous writing and a complex plot.	2003-10-16
US	52872993	R2PC2XTS138RUX	0399150773	349789238	Dragon's Lair (Penman, Sharon Kay)	Books	5	29	30	N	N	Excellent medieval mystery	I am a huge fan of Sharon Penman and she has once again given us a finely crafted story of life in the time of Eleanor and Aquitaine, Richard the Lion Heart, and of course, our ficticious hero Justin de Quincy.  This story revolves around a true incident - Eleanor's frantic quest to raise an enormous ranson to secure the freedom of her favoured son Richard, but of course there are the little side stories that allow for the most fun, and this is where Justin comes in.  He is asked to travel to the border of Wales, and so solve the whereabouts of a portion of the ranson payment.  Along the way he encounters many characters who aren't what they seem, for good or bad, and of course solves the mystery.  Don't be fooled - this is an elegant and complex mystery, and one not easily figured out.<br />Along the way we encounter other characters that Penman fans will be familiar with from her other fantastic Welsh tales, butof course in a different time, and somewhat different place, and this makes the story all the more detailed.<br />If I have one very small criticism, it is that the book assumes that you have been with Justin since he first appeared in the equally fine \\"The Queen's Man\\", and that you are familiar with his life and loves, paternity and other lifetime issues.  I am, as would all devoted Sharon Penman fans, but for others who are new to her work through this book, it may be a little distracting.  Similarly however, as a fan I would probably find all the re-intoductions somewhat tedious, so I appreciate that this is a fine line when writing a story in a series.  But it is a very small criticism, and in no way detracts from the mastery of her writing, her meticulous attention to historical research and retelling, and the ability to spin a mighty good mystery.	2003-10-10
US	52872993	RFFVEVKZTG9X	1401300227	475518677	Jamie's Kitchen	Books	5	41	45	N	N	Entertaining and simply fabulous food	Jamie Oliver is quite rightly famous for liking his food unpretentious, fresh and delicious.  he is quite quirky and funny as well, and this good humour shines through his recipes.<br />There are all sorts of delicious things in here, including a fabulous basic bread recipe that can be manipulated into all sorts of good things, but the beauty of the recipes are that they can all be whipped up in fairly short periods of time if friends and family drop in.  There are the usual quick and easies, as well as a number of far more spectacular dishes.<br />If you have a reasonaly well stocked pantry and this cook book, who knows what miracles can happen in the kitchen.  This is not just a book for people who love cooking, it is also for people who like the eating as well!	2003-10-02
US	52872993	R1MZFVEI1CUIDO	1556524978	140198186	How to Rule the World: A Handbook for the Aspiring Dictator	Books	5	29	29	N	N	Lets get ready to rule!!!	Samuel Johnson said &quot;There are few minds to which tyranny is not delightful&quot;, and when it comes to this amusing little book, how right he was.  Serious students of world domination may start with Machievelli's &quot;The Prince&quot;, the rest of us can have a laugh over this.<br />The chapters are an interesting tempters - they include &quot;Have You Got What it Takes?&quot;, which details the ideal personality of a leader; &quot;Career Paths to the Top&quot; which lists 10 jobs likely to lead to world domination (one is a parking inspector); &quot;Advanced World Rule&quot; which discusses among other things founding a faith and &quot;Posterity - Leaving Your Mark&quot; - the joy of large monuments and best selling memoirs.  There are enough real life tales here, told very tongue in cheek to make this quite an informative little book, but really it is just a very funny dig at the dictators and autocrats of the world.  An agonisingly serious topic no doubt, but very funny here!  Enjoy!	2003-09-19
US	52872993	R2OP0NE6KTDPG2	0465054684	967940175	For God, Country, and Coca-Cola	Books	5	5	8	N	N	Entertaining history of our times through a Coke bottle!	I have always had a great fascination for the things that seem to define our lives in the Western world - those great style and cultural icons of our times.  And nothing seems to typify this, in a truly frivolous sense of course, more than Coca Cola.<br />This is detailed, meticulously researched and absolutely FASCINATING study of the history of Coke - not just who first made it and how it was first presented to a thirsty public (and no, it doesn't give you the formula), but how it has grown to become something that looms large in everyone's life, even if you're not a fan. More people drink Coca Cola in the world than coffee, but at this point I must confess that I don't drink Coke myself.<br />There are entertaining stories of how the product evolved from a syrup served at every soda bar (ever wondered about that cocaine rumour - its in the book!); how every soldier in WW2 had a coke at the front, even if they didn't have bullets and medical supplies; and how jealously Coke guard their market share and branding.  There are some really funny anecdotes from the Coke/Pepsi wars, especially when the formula was tinkered with to gain competitive advantage, and my favourite is the lady who berates a poor man stocking shelves with the &quot;new&quot; Coke, and when the man stacking Pepsi laughs, she berates him for his product as well.  This is an amusing study of our society and how this innocent fizzy brown drink has become one of the most universally recognised products of our times.<br />I remember I was reading this one night and my husband declared that he thought the whole book was nothing but an advertisement for Coca Cola.  I laughed, told him it was a very entertaining study of a product that is now literally everywhere in the world.  I then asked him to get me a Coke.	2003-09-18
US	52872993	R3GY7QXDRNI61K	1567920748	22384383	A Corner in the Marais: Memoir of a Paris Neighborhood	Books	4	9	10	N	N	Charming snapshot of Paris throughout history	This is a relatively small and delightful book that offers a snapshot of life in Paris throughout history.  The author purchased a small appartment in an old and relatively untouched partof Paris, and decided to research the history surroounding it.  Thus he embarks on a bit of an adventure to find out about the previous owners and the building's usage, and in doing so gives the reader a (relatively brief) overview of the area.<br />It really is a charming view of Paris and the joys of living in a city that has seen so much history, from the earliest times when the area was outside the old walled city, up to the revolution, the Nazi occupation and the terrorism that blights the world today.  The story is told in a charming and light hearted manner, and will appeal to those with a real interest in old Paris and all of its pleasures.<br />A small criticism - it could have been a bigger and more detailed book.  Obviously a city such as Paris has a fabulous and fascinating history that the house observed in its quiet way from its unobtrusive corner.  Perhaps there were no historical documents that tie it to these great events, but it was there nonetheless, and I feel that the book lacks a litle for these omissions.<br />Having said that, it is a charming book, and one which is well worth your time.	2003-09-16
US	52872993	R35KMYK0P0T27G	0440237688	55490378	The Giver (Giver Quartet)	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Powerful but be prepared for the ending	I was unprepared for the depth of emotion that this lovely little book showed me.  This book is not as famous in Australia and I bought it on the strength of the reviews here on Amazon, but I must say that whereas the reviews do it justice in terms of how strong it is and well written it is, I was not prepared for the tears I cried at the end, and how much the story has effected me.  I find myself thinking of the central characters days after I have finished reading it.<br />I need not relate the plot, that has been done very well here, but it is all too easy to think of the things that we so willingly give up for an easy life.  Is this a prophetic book?  This is certainly an interesting point of discussion. My copy has a commentary by Ms Lowry at the back, and I noted with interest (through my tears) that the book is well read in Germany, where students read it in conjunction with stories of their own modern history, and I thought that this was a really telling observation.<br />I bought this book for my 12 year old daughter, but as she was half way through Harry Potter's fifth adventure, I thought I would read it first, and I'm pleased I did, as \\"The Giver\\" is a book that needs to be discussed and the reader almost de-briefed - it is such a powerful book.  So a message to all you parents out there - if your children have read or are going to read this book, you need to read it too, and give them the opportunity to discuss the themes and issues raised within.  This is not to suggest in any way that the book should be withheld from young readers - just that there will be value in your family to be able to discuss the characters and the future world in which they live.<br />It is a wonderful book - witty at times, and as I said, I cried at the end.  It is a truly powerful book that can make you laugh or cry, and this does both.  But anyone who dismisses this as a simple \\"young adult\\" novel is sadly mistaken.	2003-09-09
US	52872993	R2QZMWNZYBSUO2	1582343497	288461545	Schott's Original Miscellany	Books	5	11	13	N	N	Wierd and wonderful!!!!!	This is the sort of book that you should leave lying on your coffee table, or anywhere that you may leave guests for a moment while you make them coffee. It is full of all of those odd things that you wanted to know about - measurements, historical facts, odd names, pronounciations, time lines, famous horses and their riders, planets, signals - all things wierd and wonderful.<br />It is just enchanting, and because the information is limited to a page or two (at the most) - usually half a page or a few lines, it is one of those treasures that you can dip in and out of and never tire of.  Every time you pick it up you will learn something new.  And it is a valuable resource book too!<br />Every home should have one!  And if you have that difficult someone to buy a gift for, this would be ideal.  Everyone would find something interesting or amusing in it.  The ultimate gift!	2003-09-02
US	52872993	R2A6PYH1NS06CV	0786708239	155843737	Miss Garnet's Angel: A Novel	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Just delightful	Miss Garnet has a dry and emotionless life.  She vaguely realises this, but is never moved to do anything about it until her friend of many years dies, and she decides to spend time overseas.  Her destination of choice is Venice, and there the beauty and history of the place, and the different people she meets, touch her soul and makes her think and re-evaluate everything she has done with her life.  Cleverly interwoven with this is the story of Tobias, who is accompanied by an angel as he too ventures on a journey that will also change his life.<br />This all sounds very deep and meaningful, but it is a lovely, lyrical book, where the central character is charming in her self analysis, regrets and realisations of things lost, and we appreciate the small pleasures that she derives from a beautiful painting, a new lilac dress, and the discovery of new truths from her own research into the story of Tobias and the angel which has so fascinated her.  The other characters who populate her journey are equally enchanting, all of whom are not really who they appear to be, but all who help Miss Garnet appreciate what she has in life, as to a degree she does them as well.<br />If there is one small drawback with the book, it is that it immediately imbues the reader with a great desire to visit Venice, and to gaze upon paintings of angels.  But I'm sure I will get over this.  I will however, continue to remember this enchanting story, and I recommend it highly.  This is a first novel, and I trust that it is the beginning of a great career for a talented and insightful writer.	2003-09-02
US	52872993	R1M89CDIVH62I5	0520219384	629007473	The Lives of the Kings and Queens of England, Revised and Updated	Books	5	20	22	N	N	Excellent resource	Antonia Fraser does a great job here, outlining the lives and adventures of the Kings and Queens of England, from the time of the Norman conquest.  And of course its not just a history of England that we are reading here, from time to time it was also a history of the known world - there were times when if England didn't own another country, they were coveting it, or were in some conflict with it.  And what fascinating people these royal people were.  They were of their times, they were shaped by the times, they were defeated by their times, and in being so helped shape the world that we see today.  They were competent, insane, brilliant, loyal, lecherous and obsessive.  This is a history of mankind - only far more visible!<br />Antonia Fraser is one of the finest historical writers today.  In this book she does not have the space or time to delve into the nitty gritty of the reigns of each monarch, but she does give a fascinating and insightful snap shot of their times.  This is a valuable reference book for any half serious library, as it deals not only with the people, but the times tthat they lived in.	2003-09-02
US	52872993	R383A62IW5SVM8	0802136834	405327590	The Six Wives of Henry VIII	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Magnificent history - reads like a great novel	Alsion Weir is a very talented writer, who certainly knows her stuff when it comes to Tudor history.  When we read this book, we come to understand the forces of the dynasty that created the man who would become the great Henry the Eighth, and the needs of his kingdom that drove his obsession to sire a son.<br />History has tended to relegate Henry's wives into some simplistic catergories - Catherine of Aragon as the dowdy hard done by cast-off; infamous Anne Boleyn as a woman who played for high stakes and lost; and sweet Jane Seymour, who gave Henry his son but sadly died.  Then there were the other three wives who somehow never seemed so fascinating, and as such have had much less of the limelight.  But never were there six more different women, and each has made their impact on history in a number of different ways.<br />Alsion Weir has written this book with such richness and attention to detail, that at times you forget that you are reading non-fiction and get swept away in the fervour that can come with a great novel.  But never has the imagination given an author such rich fodder as Henry and his love life, and his increasing desperation to sire more children as he got older.  The six women that graced his life so so long or for such a short period of time are well defined, and we come to care for all of them as the book progresses.  We come to understand their wishes and desires, and we feel sorrow for them as we see that frequently they were only pawns in the great dynastic chess game of the time.  And of course we catch a glimpse of the other Tudors - the deeply religious Mary, who was forever scarred by her mother's treatment; Edward who was manipulated by his mother's family, and finally Elizabeth, who grew up branded a bastard and for many years feared the retribution that may have followed her mother's fall from favour.<br />Not only is this a really great read, it is also a meticulously researched and presented reference book, one which will be treasured for many years to come.ured for many years to come.	2003-09-02
US	52872993	R62T7P6ML38JQ	0394432622	928897898	Kristin Lavransdatter: The Bridal Wreath; The Mistress of Husaby; The Cross	Books	5	53	61	N	N	Complex, wide ranging and worth perservering with	I picked this trilogy up because (a) I had never heard of it and (b) I was astonished to note that it had been awarded the Nobel Prize for Literature.  It had to be worth a try.  And what a gem it is - a detailed and historically accurate picture of life in 14th Century Norway, complete with a fesity herione, hulking men and the entire range of human emotions in all their glory.<br />The novel begins with our hero Kristin bathing in the love of her parents in living in the comfort of a wealthy home.  As she grows, she finds herself completely in love, and against the wishes of her parents and her betrothed (another far more suitable man) pursues and secures the man of her dreams.  But of course we must be careful what we wish for, and the novels take us through the trials and tribulations of life with someone you love, but are not necessarily suited to.<br />This is a rich and detailed novel, that is not always to read, but at time it was so powerful that it reduced me to tears.  You become completely involved in the character's lives, and in the end this gives you a real sense of satisfaction in your reading.<br />It certtainly is a different book, and one which is well worth your time.	2003-03-05
US	52872993	R2QDKB93VJVD9P	0743444159	22534204	Salamander	Books	3	4	9	N	N	Beautifully written, but fails to maintain interest	This is certainly a beautifully written book, but the premise that it is about the pleasure of books and why we read them is somewhat misleading.  It is really a story of people, and their incredibly complex lives, and in that it loses its way a little.  The characters are only hinted at, whereas I like to know more about them, and their adventures drift into the fantastic, whilst attempting to stay grounded in the real world.<br />Somehow it doesn't get there.  Sure it is lovely to read, with beautiful prose, but it was a struggle to finish.  I like books that grab my attention, and hold it to the end.	2003-01-19
US	52872993	R392LXVWQD247L	0743412710	287545070	Address Unknown	Books	4	23	24	N	N	An interesting little gem	I read this book (novella really - almost a short story) in one sitting, and found it to be both profoundly disturbing and very clever.  There is a marvellous twist in the tale which I have to confess that I didn't see coming, and despite the real horrors of the story, left me satisfied and smiling at the end.<br />But this is not a perfect book - some of the other reviewers have mentioned the inaccuracies of the time and the geography, and how parts of some of the characters' adventures and activities are a little too pat.  All of this is true.  But we forgive all of that as we read the letters which demonstrate so well the dissolving of a lifetime's ties of friendship, and the infinitely clever revenge that is eventually had.<br />So, not a perfect book, but a very, very good one (4 and a half stars really), and one that I would recommend to anyone who is interested in history, clever writing, and who loves a story with a twist in the tale!	2002-11-27
US	52872993	R22FN5DBAAQ4YE	0670805939	120870556	Railway Station Man	Books	3	7	9	N	N	Unusual novel of fleeting happiness	&quot;The Railway Station Man&quot; is an unusual novel.  It is not terribly long, and we are offered only a very brief snapshot into the lives of the characters around which the story evolves.  The main character is a widow who seeks a new life in a small coastal village in Ireland after her husband is tragically killed and finds a sort of guilty hard won happiness with her painting and her cat.  Her loneliness is broken occasionally by the visits of her distant son, and eventually she finds a different sort of happiness with the eccentric war hero who has bought the local abandoned railway station with a view to restoring it.<br />If this is a novel of anything however, it is how fleeting any happiness can be.  In the background of this seemingly innocent tale is the great Irish &quot;troubles&quot; - hints of the IRA and matters far from innocent.  It has all the ingredients for a rich and fascinating tale.<br />However, all of these ingredients do not really make for the wonderful tale that it could be - it falls a little far from the mark.  We do not get to know these pivotal characters very well - things are hinted at in their past but never elaborated on. There is some issue brewing in the background, and somehow this is only hinted at until the shocking conclusion - shocking in both what happens and how abruptly it finishes the book.  It is certainly well written, and has the promise of a far greater novel, but that is all it is - the promise of a great novel, and one that falls way short.	2002-10-01
US	52872993	R3ORE5KA1E4MVQ	0743211375	124087136	From a Buick 8	Books	4	2	3	N	N	An entertaining ride	Once again Mr King has managed to chill us all with this easy paced novel of a rather suspicious car which arrives quite unceremoniously and &quot;lives&quot; out its &quot;life&quot; in a shed at the back of a local police authority.  There is weaves its spell over the police officers who work there, and this tale is told to the teenage son of one of these officers, now deceased.<br />This is a chilling book rather than terrifying.  Mr King takes great care to show how the car has woven its spell, but that the people involved still manage to have what passed for normal every day lives.  The wonderful part of this book is in the detail - you can really see the car which is not quite right, and you can imagine the world that it opens a door to.  The visitors that come from that world occasionally keep up the interest and the &quot;horror&quot; aspect.<br />But ultimately it is a tale of how we are all drawn to things that we know in our rational selves that we should leave well enough alone, and it is done very, very well.	2002-09-29
US	52872993	R3RZAEMO8SPL4Z	0743227441	512398584	The Other Boleyn Girl	Books	3	10	11	N	N	Entertaining, but skips some facts	This is certainly an entertaining novel, and it will keep you turning the pages. But Ms Gregory has a few of the facts a little muddled, and as history is always stranger than fiction, I do have to wonder why she chose to change anything about this fantastic story. For example, Ann was Mary's younger sister, not elder, and this may have put quite a different spin on their relationship. Mary's son Henry was her first born child, not second. And finally, there was absolutely no evidence that Ann ever committed incest with her brother George, and the book hints very heavily that this was indeed what happened.<br />I guess we can just pass this off as historical fiction, and Ms Gregory certainly does do this well, painting a vivid image of Ann as a young woman who gambled all and lost, and endangered her family in the process. But this was a well documented time in history, and whereas I am willing to give historical authors a lot of leeway with characterisation, I do like my facts to be right.<br />It is a ripping tale all right, and it is well written, but I still found myself disappointed with the liberties taken with the facts.	2002-09-09
US	52872993	R3HR7X3I21Y1XV	0142001430	43461769	Year of Wonders: A Novel of the Plague	Books	5	6	8	N	N	Best book I've read in ages!!	\\"Book of Wonders\\" is everything a historical novel should be.  It is based upon the true events of a small village which isolated itself with the outbreak of plague; it has finely drawn and believable characters; and the writing is of a style that you could almost imagine it was really written at the time (please don't let this latter point put you off - the writing is not in any way archaic, as is often the trend these days).<br />It is also however, profoundly sad, and I found myself weeping with the characters at their loss in an early part of the novel.  I always think that is is a powerful book that can make you laugh or cry.<br />The story of the people of this small village and their trials and tribulations in this terrible time is absolutely mesmerising.  We watch them cling to their faith in God, and then turn to earlier more earthy superstitions to help them deal with the wave of death that has struck so many of them down.  We also watch the development of the narrator from a simple village girl who thirsts for knowledge into the strong character she is by the end of the novel.<br />Some of the earlier reviewers have commented that the end seems a little pat, almost as if the author wanted to finish the book and be done with it.  I must admit that it doesn't finish the way I would have liked it to, but having said that, I truly do not believe that it in any way takes away from the mastery of the book.<br />It is a fascinating, well written and well researched book.  I cannot recommend it highly enough.	2002-08-29
US	52872993	R2Y3OUEWM37WOU	006018633X	213875438	Nashborough: A Novel	Books	2	3	3	N	N	Disappointing	I love family sagas, and for the most part for me the longer the book the better.  I love the way that the characters develop and interact with each other, and in a truly well written family saga there is the added attraction of major world historical events to put their lives into perspective.  Alas, this book has very little of this.<br />The interesting characters are there, sure enough, but we learn almost nothing of them.  They have joys and terrible tragedies, and these are all glossed over as we march through the years.  There is no true development of the lives of the families - they are all entirely superficial.  Even when one of the main characters goes to war and becomes famous for his heroics, this is dealt with in one or two paragraphs.<br />The author certainly has talent, and I'm sure it will develop, but this is a very disappointing effort, and I struggled to finish it.  Even then I got the impression that she was in a hurry to finish the book.  There are far superior family sagas on the market.	2002-08-21
US	52872993	R7AHVO8EKZ3WE	0399147853	952360082	Time and Chance	Books	3	2	3	N	N	Not her best, but reasonably entertaining	I guess this book may be many things to many people.  As an ardent fan of Ms Penman, I found myself disappointed with the characters in a time in history when the real players were as fascinating as any who have ever walked the earth.  Eleanor is my favourite historical character, and Henry and Thomas Becket were among the most powerful personalities of their times.  Alas, I feel that this book does not do them justice.  Henry is portrayed well enough, as the fesity and stubborn king, but Eleanor is relegated to child-producing wife, and almost nothing is mentioned of Becket, save to imply that he was perhaps losing his mind.<br />What is worse, is that by far the most interesting character in the book is fictional - Henry's uncle Ranulf.  Fair enough, you might say, this is a novel.  But I don't understand why Ms Penman places so much emphasis on a fictional character, when the real ones give her such rich material.<br />However, when all is said and done, this is a novel, and a well written one at that.  Therefore it was able to keep me engrossed enough to finish it in my usual rapid time.  But beware that this is a book which is clearly intended to have a sequel - we have yet to see any of the fireworks between Henry and Eleanor that marked the latter years of their marriage, and I hope that Ms Penman will let us see these characters in all their glory in the next book.<br />If you are not someone with a great interest and knowledge of the period, you will enjoy this as it is a ripping story full of interesting people.  If not, you may find that the book leaves the most fascinating people in history a little wanting, and in turn leaves you wanting a little more.	2002-08-05
US	52872993	R2Z6BHEVQ3LTVF	068484477X	709347155	Stones from the River	Books	5	204	213	N	N	A magnificent must read	A friend insisted I buy this book, telling me what a masterpiece it was.  I was at first sceptical, and I must confess it did not grab me within the first few chapters as I had hoped that it would.  The main character is a dwarf, the child of a mentally ill mother and a father disabled in World War 1, and whereas her life looked as if it would be interesting, if filled with angst, I was confident that this itself would not hold my attention for the whole of the book.<br />How wrong I was, becuase it is not Trudi's life that grabs you, it is the world she is living in - the horror of Germany between the wars.  It is difficult to find words to describe how that world changes, with the rise of Adolf Hitler, and the slow and deliberate persecution of the Jews, and the terror of ordinary citizens who barely dared to question what was hapening to their lives.  The story becomes shocking, unimaginable and utterly compelling.  I also think that it is something that everyone should read, and I like my friend, will recommend it to everyone.<br />It is not an easy story to read, and Trudi, the main character is spiky and independent - not always easy to identify with.  But is an important book because it also chronicles the life of everyday Germans who were caught up in unspeakable times, and it is with these characters that our sympathies lie.<br />I am pleased that I took my friend's recommendation.  Again, not an easy read, but a picture of history that cannot be ignored.  It is a truly compelling and magnificent novel.	2002-07-01
US	52872993	R37HT6BO8KYP2L	0765302853	397616672	Once	Books	3	13	18	N	N	Polished, erotic and strangely disappointing	I am a big fan of james Herbert and snapped this book up fairly quickly.  It starts with a great deal of promise - a wounded hero, an old house on a big wooded property, and something quite mysterious in his past.  Even the promise of fairies and all things good and bad seemed enticing.<br />And so it is - to an extent.  The story starts out promisingly enough, but I feel that what could have been an immensely powerful story loses its way with both the horror (which is the standard yucky stuff) and the unexpectedly explicit nature of the erotica.  If you are not aware of this be warned - it is quite graphic, including references to masturbation and lesbianism, and may not appeal to everyone. I also feel that Mr Herbert missed the opportunity to include more of the fairy folk in his woods - to explore their relationship with the land and their supernaural interaction with the characters and the setting.<br />Overall it is an interesting read, well written of course, and the story trips along at a fair pace.  I felt that the ending was somewhat hurried, as is often the case with novels such as this, almost as if the author was caught out and felt that he or she couldn't quite find a satisfactory ending.  It was an enjoyable read, certainly not James Herbert's best, but it is different enough to be interesting.	2002-04-04
US	52872993	RF8OOURV7PFYM	0805063021	310161743	Canone Inverso: A Novel	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Fascinating story with a twisted ending!	This is a very different and engrossing book.  It has all the ingredients of a life and friendships gone badly wrong, but it has many other interesting features that make it very worthy of the reader's attention.<br />The story begins in the first person, being told by the purchaser of a rare violin at auction.  He pays considerable money for it, but is thrilled to have it.  He in turn is visited by someone who was also interested in purchasing the violin, but missed the auction. This man relates to the buyer a story of a fascinating man that he had met - the owner of the violin, and how he was unsure at the end of their meeting that he had ever even existed!  In telling that story to the buyer, this man then relates the life tale of the violin owner as told to him, of his musical obsession and a great friendship gone badly wrong.  A life story, told to a story teller, who tells the narrator, who is in turn telling us, the reader.  It is a fascinating and very clever plot device.<br />The story itself is one of music obsession, of discipline and friendship, and woven through it is the underlying menace of the rise of the Third Reich and the horrors of Europe in the 1930s.  But it is the surprise ending, and the revelation of the identity of the purchser of the violin that had me most surprised.  I never saw it coming, and I do love to be surprised in a book!  It is certainly an abrupt ending, and of course it leaves many loose ends, but I think this adds to the impact of the final chapter.  It is a finely woven and written story, and it will stay with you for some time.<br />I recommend it highly.	2002-02-08
US	52872993	R1GPW225GVE5BO	0896214400	180132057	Rita Hayworth and Shawshank Redemption a Story from Different Seasons	Books	5	16	17	N	N	Fantastic story in its own right	This is Steven King's finest novella.  I should probably add that the movie follows the story faithfully and does it very well - it is one of my favourite movies.  But somehow the story is always a little better.<br />What is interesting about the story is there is more of a feeling of the sheer weight of time Andy spends in prison.  There is not one cheif warden or sadistic guard, there are several, who come and go as the years roll on.  The posters change of course, but the friendships that Andy forges remain.  And the spectacular ending - just as we imagine.<br />It is fortunate that this is a story that has translated so well to film - so often such things fall well short of the mark.  But it is well worth reading in its own right, and I recommend it highly.  If you cannot find the story by itself, it does appear in &quot;Different Seasons&quot; with 3 other equally good stories.	2002-01-22
US	52872993	R2JK9HGAZ1D9NB	0370308174	843845611	MIDNITE - The Story of a Wild Colonial Boy	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Deightful little book!	The story of Captain Midnight and his band of faithful (animal) followers is an absolute delight. It is one of the most wonderful children's books ever written, and all adults should share it with their children. If you don't have any children, and if you don't even like them, treat yourself to the book anyway. It's a hoot!<br />Our hero is a bush ranger, like a highway man, though this is almost by default, and he is a very reluctant and to a certain extent inept bad guy. The other characters are equally delightful, especially his feline confederate, the siamese cat Khat, and the depictions of the Australian bush and the times in which they live are wonderful.<br />It is funny, it is enchanting, and I cannot reccommend it highly enough!	2002-01-18
US	52872993	R27UU6GN9839ZJ	0374516812	9117281	The Lottery and Other Stories	Books	5	2	4	N	N	Fabulous tales with a twist	I first read &quot;The Lottery&quot; in high school and it has stayed with me ever since.  I bought this book for the title story, and it is the most powerful of the stories, though the others are also very entertaining.  Hopefully it will also stay with you.<br />Ms Jackson is a phenomenally talented writer.  You know immediately that there is something wrong with the simple village lottery, and the suspense and horror builds with every word.  That this can be achieved in the space of a short story is amazing - we have a very lttle time before we are faced with the shocking truth.<br />&quot;The Lottery&quot; is the finest short story of its genre, and stands alone as one of the greatest stories ever written.  Shirley Jackson is a master, and her novels &quot;The Haunting of Hill House&quot; and &quot;We Have Always Lived in the Castle&quot; are also engrossing reads.  But &quot;The Lottery&quot;? Well, you will never forget the twist in the tale.	2002-01-16
US	52872993	R27KEZIGDWWZ00	0899668143	829916644	Katherine	Books	5	38	39	N	N	Fabulous historical drama/romance	&quot;Katherine&quot; is Anya Seton's finest book, which is high praise considering her talent. She is a very fine writer with excellent attention to detail and historical accuracy, as well the ability to make the characters come vividly alive.<br />This is of course a very fine and entertaining story. There is our heroine Katherine, with all of her trials and tribulations, and who finds herself unexpectedly thrust into a turbulent life with a turbulent royal family!  It is interesting to note that through the children she had with John of Gaunt, she is a direct ancestress of all of ruling Kings and Queens of England from that time on (and a great many members of European royal families as well)!  Katherine made her mark on history in many, many ways.<br />This is an utterly charming and beautiful book.  I was about 12 when I first picked it up and was immediately enchanted by the writing, the adventure and the history, and return to it time and time again.  The book is peppered with other interesting historical characters - for example Geoffrey Chaucer was married to Katherine's sister, and appears from time to time full of wit and stories.<br />So read it for yourself, and introduce it to a young lady in your life.  You could not bestow a finer gift.	2002-01-10
US	52872993	R3PI80Q7OLXY13	0670863734	594941231	The Cook's Companion	Books	5	27	29	N	N	A must have in any kitchen	This is really the most amazing cookbook.  In many ways it is like the famous French gastronomic dictionaries with explanations of the foods that we eat and the seasonings and other basic ingredients, but it also has fabulous ways to use and appreciate these ingredients.  As Stephanie is one of Australia's most famous cooks, we are also privy to many of her secrets and favourites - really yummy things!<br />Best of all it is extremely readable - I mean sit comfortably and read it simply for the pleasure of the contents.  It explains why certain cuts of meats are the best, how herbs and spices grow and are used, different ways of working with fruits and vegetables - it is a spectacular scholarly and entertaining book.<br />As a collector of books I am also lured by the glamour of glossy cookbooks with their mouthwatering recipes and artful pictures.  This book has none of this, but it is smeared with chocolate and dappled with olive oil, lemon juice, flour and dried parsley.  Surely this is the best indication of a level of usage for any cookbook.  Track it down and buy it!	2002-01-09
US	52872993	R2ZKTR5VSGO0F0	0486210979	983486080	The Complete Woodcuts of Albrecht Drer (Dover Fine Art, History of Art)	Books	5	18	18	N	N	Spectacular talent	Albrecht Durer was one of the most talented artists the world has ever seen, and his woodcuts, especially those of apocolyptic visions are spectacular.  This book reproduces these woodcuts faithfully, and the images are not diminished by the format of the book as is often the case.<br />These images are the stuff of nightmares - hell, torment, torture and death, and yet the images are so startlingly realistic as to be almost poignant in their representations.  Enjoyt the images for what they are - works of genius.  In addition the commentary is worthwhile, with interesting observations of Durer's life and techniques.<br />A valuable addition to an art lover's library, but also a fascinating book for anyone who is interested in genius.	2002-01-09
US	52872993	R29IC9IYIE5DKM	0060194391	388626932	The Keys of Egypt: The Obsession to Decipher Egyptian Hieroglyphs	Books	4	4	6	N	N	Informative insight into history and obsession	Champollion's story is a fascinating one, cleverly interespersed with the story of Napoleon's attempts to bring mysterious Egypt under French control, and the introduction of &quot;Egyptomania&quot;, which is still around today!  As well, we are treated to interesting insights into life in France in the aftermath of the Revolution - for example, who would have thought that an education was so hard to secure after the church was frowned upon, because it was the church that provided the bulk of the schools?<br />The heart and soul of this book is our hero Champollion, who was a child progidy, a professor at the age of 18, and always struggling with poverty and his thirst for knowledge.  This book cleverly details his struggle to unravel the mystery of heiroglyphics - what really becomes a true obsession for him, and how he was totally driven by his need to succeed.  Indeed his life was frequently difficult - somehow he usually managed to be on the wrong side of whatever was fashionable at the time.<br />So from this point of view - as a study of a fascinating, driven and obsessed man, this is a very good book.  If it has one flaw, and I guess its a major one - there is not enough detail of how he finally deciphered the heiroglyphics. We the reader are given only tastes of his true genius and persistence.  Maybe this is fair enough, maybe it is so complex that the subject deserves a whole book of its own - this is after all the story of Champollion, but there is an expectation of more, and it really doesn't deliver.<br />It still makes for a very entertaining read.  Champollion was a fascinating man, and he has a fascinating story.  Read this book for this reason, and enjoy it.	2002-01-07
US	52872993	R1KDFX8JVW8LRC	0734400667	187319700	The Teddy Bear's Picnic	Books	5	10	11	N	N	Beautiful book to share with your child	If you and your child (or even if you don't have a child) love the song and story of the Teddy Bear's picnic, then you will adore this book.<br />The text is pretty straight forward - as well all expect it to be.  But the illustrations are just delightful - full colour on every page, teddies everywhere you look and getting into all manner of interesting things.  This is what is so charming about this book - the sheer delight of finding a bear and seeing what it is doing - is it eating cake?  Climbing a tree?  Falling asleep?  Avoiding the children in disguise?<br />It may be a difficult book to find, but it is just lovely, and well worth the effort.	2002-01-04
US	52872993	R2Z2JENBFFDCUO	0553801376	598224178	One Door Away from Heaven	Books	4	6	8	N	N	Well done and a little different	This is a little different to the usual run of the mill Dean Koontz books in that it has all the scary bits, but it has some of the most well defined of all of his characters.  The young girl Leilani, one of the central characters, is a truly spectacular creation, and her good friend Micky is equally interesting.  But it is the &quot;young motherless boy&quot; (to tell you more would be to give it away) and his adventures are really the heart of the book, and very entertaining it is too.<br />If I have one small criticism, it is that the evil monster in the book takes his time to show his hand.  He is a very good baddie, but I got a little impatient waiting for him to show itself in all his glory.  And when he finally got around to acting on it, I thought that he was a little incompetent (which of course was good for our heroes).<br />It is a good read, well paced and full of action, and all in all a good read.  It also makes some interesting and amusing comment on people who travel the country seeking signs of extra terrestrial activity, amd more serious comment on the extremes of bio-ethicism.<br />However it is not his best (try &quot;Strangers&quot; and &quot;Dark Rivers of the Heart&quot; for classic Koontz), but it is a satisfying read.	2001-12-30
US	52872993	R154L1KTBRYR81	140003065X	366389334	A Fine Balance	Books	5	109	114	N	N	A masterpiece	It was with some trepidation that I read this book, as I have frequently found Indian novels to be very heavy going and full of doom and gloom, but it was recommended by someone with very good taste, and I thought I'd take the plunge.  I am very glad I did - it is the finest novel of the Indian sub-continent that I have encountered.<br />The lives of the main characters are certainly not easy, so I guess I must confess that there is a fair share of the aforementioned doom and gloom.  But our heroes are so well drawn, so fully rounded and so full of adventure and thirst for whatever life throws at them (and it throws plenty), that you get completely sucked into the complexities of their existences.<br />Rohinton Mistry is a fine, talented writer.  The prose flows easily, and India in all of its richness and dire poverty is there before you.  It is quite an experience, not always a comfortable one, sometimes very entertaining, and all in all one I thoroughly recommend.	2001-12-13
US	52872993	RO00FX8S6KU78	0517208601	633917650	Roots: The Saga of an American Family (Modern Classics)	Books	4	2	4	N	N	Amazing story  and research, but missing something	Alex Haley is to be congratulated at this well researched and stirring family saga.  Just the fact that he was able to use his family's oral history to trace this wonderful story is an achievement most modern authors are unable to lay claim to.  And it is a fabulous story, rich in detail and for the first few generations after Kunta Kinte we really get to know the characters.<br />But it is the very fact that we know intimately only the first few generations that makes this fine work lack something.  There is a disproportionate amount of time focused on Kunta Kinte, and whereas this is important, as his is the most harrowing and heart rending story, I feel it takes a little too much of the book.  And towards then end, the characters get barely a mention.  I should imagine that Alex's father has a story which is equally worth telling, but the latter generations are glossed over.  I would really like to know more about these people too.<br />So it is a magnificent achievement, easy to read and riveting.  But it loses steam about half way through, and there is little flesh in the story towards the end.  I do recommend it - it is a justly famous and wonderful book - I just feel it misses the opportunity to have been a truly spectacular book	2001-11-28
US	52872993	R2AVVH6J8IXFD4	0810932377	633202478	The Discovery of Dragons	Books	5	14	14	N	N	Fabulous and whimsical	All of Graeme Base's books are wonderful, and this is no exception.  It is visually spectacular (what else would you expect with such a topic!) and the narrative keeps you entertained as well.<br />This is a book which has universal appeal.  It is fantastic enough to appeal to younger readers, and has enough impact as an &quot;art&quot; book to appeal to people who like great visual books on their coffee tables.<br />It is a lovely, witty and frivolous book.  Just what everyone needs!	2001-11-28
US	52872993	R1ZFNZ3XHX9WSB	0380788799	163080404	Hearts and Bones	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Interesting and well constructed murder/mystery	This is quite a bit above your average murder/mystery, with the additional plot devices in that it is set in historical times, and has as the central character a widowed woman who would probably be ostracised if it were not for her skill with healing.  Hannah is certainly a believable and strong character.<br />The scenario is interesting, as are the suggestions of what we call today post traumatic stress syndrome.  The plot has enough twists and turns and red herrings to keep you guessing (though some are a little too blatant to be really effective), and all in all I didn't guess whodunnit until Ms Lawrence wanted me to.<br />It is an enjoyable read and I recommend it.	2001-10-15
US	52872993	R2LA13MMPKBQMG	0446608009	435144744	The Drowning People	Books	4	2	4	N	N	Entertaining and well written debut	This is certainly an impressive debut from a talented young man. I hope to read more of his creations in the future. In many ways this book reminds me of another great debut novel - \\"A Secret History\\" by Donna Tartt, where this a murder mystery where we know who did it, we just don't know why.<br />The story is well crafted and the characters believable. Many of the other reviewers have criticised the novel for being too wordy, and Mr Manson is certainly infatuated with the English language, but I don't think this detracts too much from the work. The story becomes more and more predictable as it progresses, and again this has been a criticism, but I think it is more a deliberate plot device, slowly drawing the reader in. Whereas the ending is not a surprise by the time it arrives, it has a punch nonetheless.<br />If I have a criticism of the book, it is that I had some real issues in placing the story in any particular time. It almost reads as if it is set at the turn of the century, but it is clearly not. At one point I thought it was set in the 60s, but this does not add up when you consider how long the main character has been married. But it is a small criticism, and doesn't really distrct from the enjoyment of the book.<br />Yes, it is impressive. Wordy and predictable maybe, but still a very enjoyable read, and I do recommend it.	2001-10-09
US	52872993	RPZLMCFFMXKT6	0553801341	255570129	From the Corner of His Eye	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Classic Koontz	This is the best offering from Dean Koontz in quite a while.  It has a well crafted story line, following a number of characters' lives while they interact, both directly and indirectly with the chief bad guy.  And what a good bad guy he is - evil to the core but still sensitive, suave and polished - a true psychopath. And on the good people's side they are also interesting - we have the twin brothers who are obsessed with the evils of man and nature, the saintly mother who had been abused by her own father, the good natured pharmacist whose wife is afflicted with polio, the charismatic police detective who was once a priest.  They are all well drawn and believable, and the plot moves along at a fair pace.<br />If I have one small criticism, it is the ending.  It is as if Mr Koontz has had enough with all the unpleasantness that goes with a horror novel and slapped a sugar glaze on everything and everyone.  The fate of the bad guy is clever enough, but the rest is a little disappointing.  But after a ripper novel, this is a small criticism, and I do recommend it.	2001-10-03
US	52872993	R223MA211DXC3L	0440212561	983256815	Outlander	Books	3	9	14	N	N	Doesn't quite live up to expectations	[....] to a certain extent this is indeed a very good book. It is historically accurate (inaccuracy is my pet peeve), the characters are well defined, and there is all the excitement of romance in the wilds of Scotland. Jamie is indeed a male character that we could all fall in love with. So it is with all these things that I write this review with some trepidation, well aware that I am suggesting that a book which is very dear to lots of people's hearts is less than wonderful.<br />Lets get started. Firstly, Ms Gabaldon uses a tried and tested plot device that never ceases to annoy me. Our heroine Claire, fesity and intelligent though she is, finds herself time and time again in life threatening situations, and lo and behold she is rescued by the gallant Jamie in the nick of time. This is exciting once, but it wears a bit thin after a while, and after a time we begin to wonder at Claire's stupidity. It also means that any suspense generated by our herione's situation is dulled by the fact that we know that the handsome hero will be there any moment.<br />Secondly, Ms Gabaldon seems determined to inflict all manner of injuries and tortures on our hero Jamie. Now Claire is a nurse - a healer, and I can understand what a powerful thing it is in a romance story for the heroine to nurse the handsome and ailing hero back to health and true love. But I really think it is done to death in this book (excuse the pun), and the final torture scenes are graphic in a way that is entirely unneccessary for this type of romance. Indeed by the time Jamie and Claire had recovered from this dreadful assault (as I knew they would) I was beginning to lose interest in their story. If I want horror I will read a horror story.<br />Alas I found by the end of the book that I was disinterested in their on-going story, and was pleased that the book could be read by itself. I must stress that I consider in many ways that this is a mighty good read, and it is certainly different to many of the bodice rippers that fill our bookshelves. But I was disappointed that even a first class romance can mar itself with the usual cliches. Read it and enjoy, but be aware of its flaws.bodice rippers that fill our bookshelves. But I was disappointed that even a first class romance can mar itself with the usual cliches. Read it and enjoy, but be aware of its flaws.	2001-10-03
US	52872993	RE8QBLMK4I6ZO	0810909014	344753614	Faeries	Books	5	24	24	N	N	A must for believers!	I purchased this book long, long ago, and I now have a child who is very interested in faeries. So it was bought down from the bookshelf, the dust blown off it, and we settled down for a read.  I had forgotten what a gem this book is.<br />The illustrations alone are worth the purchase price.  If you are interested in fine art, let alone book illustrations, you will apreciate this book.  The text is well written and amusing, with a great deal of attention to the smaller details of the small people's lives.  And let us not forget the less than nice faeries - the bad faeries who we think are best forgotten.  They also get a slice of the action.  It is sometimes pleasant to have that little shiver of frightening childhood memories.<br />It is a delightful book.  Its not strictly a children's book but you will be very fondly remembered by any child you present this to as a gift.  Its not strictly an adult book either, but hey, let's live a little!  Leave it on your coffee table and I guarantee everyone will pick it up.  Maybe it has its own little bit of magic.	2001-09-26
US	52872993	RQBYVFYFB8CT5	0316290238	741461517	The Collector (Back Bay Books)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Powerful, disturbing and compelling	This is a really unusual book which is so well written that you can identify with both the kidnapper - the frighteningly normal Clegg, and the object of his &quot;collection&quot; Miranda. The book starts with Clegg's obsession with collecting beautiful things, and moves through his day to day interaction with the woman he has abducted. The second half deals with Miranda coming to terms with what has happened to her, and her plans and desires to escape.<br />It is very well written, and you could amost imagine that there are two authors putting together the novel - one for each viewpoint. It is utterly compelling writing, and it is truly chilling. Clegg could be anyone you know for all of his well hidden psycopathic tendencies. What is worse is the thought that any of us could be Miranda. The story draws you further and further in and presents us with a vision of reality that is utterly terrifying, even though no-one would think to classify this as a horror novel. The ending will leave you breathless and shocked.<br />This book is definitely one of the classics of 20th Century fiction, and one which everyone should read.	2001-09-26
US	52872993	R3CJZ3LTA6GL0T	0060198133	582577419	Five Quarters of the Orange	Books	3	35	38	N	N	Different and dark	I liked &quot;Chcolat&quot; and therefore it was with anticipated pleasure that I began this book.  It is quite well written, and the characters are well defined, and there is the pleasures of childhood in the French countryside all nicely laid out before us. But it isn't long before the allure of the story gives way to its much darker nature.  There are the broader themes of the WW2 French resistance and German collaborators interwoven with the childhood memories, and how our heroine, now an elderly widow, strives to remain anonymous in a town that still despises her family because of its involvement in these matters so long ago.<br />It is this darkness that makes me give this book 3 stars when I might have rated it higher.  The idyllic childhood is nothing of the sort - the children are neglected by their ailing widowed mother, and they quickly become infatuated with the Germans and the thrills of being involved with them in what they think is harmless fun, but secretly know to be otherwise.  Our heroine is actually quite a spiteful and manipulative little girl, and although she interseperses her memories with pity for her mother, this doesn't take the edge off that spite.  And even though our heroine improves with age, the current day characters of her nephew and his wife take on that continuing unpleasant role.<br />The novel also takes its time getting to the truth that is the core of that darkness and the reason our heroine wishes to remain anonymous.  When I finally got there I was almost beyond caring about it, and I was frankly disappointed that I was able to work out what happened even before the event finally was revealed.  What should have been the most suspenseful part of the book fell way short of expectations.<br />So all in all this was a novel that had a fascinating and complex idea, dealing with issues that are still sensitive today.  However, it somehow misses the mark, and whereas it was an interesting and quite well written read, it left me feeling vaguely uncomfortable, and I'm not sure whether or not I enjoyed it.ling vaguely uncomfortable, and I'm not sure whether or not I enjoyed it.	2001-09-20
US	52872993	R1LYXFBHCOTGXW	0312961006	653774129	The Trickster	Books	3	7	7	N	N	Well constructed horror tale with a few flaws	If you like horror stories, you'll like this book.  It has enough hideous murders to make Stephen King cringe, and the story pays meticulous attention to the characters and their lives, in a picture perfect Canadian ski town.  I particularly liked the story mechanism which took the reader back to earlier in the century, when railroad workers unwittingly unleash the being that is the trickster.<br />However, there are a few flaws in the story, and they are quite serious ones.  First and foremost is the author's continuing message of childhood sexual abuse amongst native Canadian families.  If this is an important part of the plot, then so be it, but I think it is seriously overdone and takes away from some of the suspense, not to mention adding to the general distaste the reader may feel.  Sometimes a little subtlety goes a long way.<br />Secondly, our hero/prime suspect's son suspects that there is sonething wrong with his father, and this is manifested throughout the novel as fear, until almost the end when he completely turns his thoughts around.  Somehow any value that this plot device has had up to that time is lost at this point.<br />The ending is jumbled, but this appears to be standard fare with horror books that deal with the supernatural.  Perhaps authors have difficulties articulating the end of a horror they have worked so hard to create.<br />But criticisms aside, this is an interesting read, and it kept me appropriately engrossed for a few days.  The author is a talented writer, and I look forward to anything else she may write.	2001-09-17
US	52872993	R190RC7A37AJZA	0749917873	844745339	Reincarnation: Amazing True Cases from Around the World	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Fascinating!	Reincarnation is one of those topics that is likley to engender heated debate at any dinner party.  There are those who say they'd like to believe, and those that think that it is all a lot of nonsense.  Whatever your opinion on the topic, and you're bound to have one - very few people are indifferent - this is a truly fascinating and well researched introduction.<br />The topics range from Western people who have amazing experiences after hynosis to young Asian people who are adamant that they were someone different in a previous life.  Cynicism aside, this makes for a really good read, and in all honesty it is hard to argue the nonsense side when faced with this well written argument for belief.<br />Even if you continue to think it is all fiction, this is a very written look into a contraversial topic.  It not only looks at the expereinces of the individuals, but also the social contexts in which they live, and this adds to the interest.  It is well worth an addition to the library of anyone with the remotest of interest in the subject.	2001-09-11
US	52872993	R327WL49GETWKT	0380012863	129257055	Jonathan Livingston Seagull	Books	2	7	14	N	Y	It's lost on me!	I have never really understood the appeal that this little book has had for its thousands of fans.  I find the writing simplistic to the point of irritation, and the subject matter banal.<br />However, having said that, my husband adores it and would give it 5 stars.  As I said, it's lost on me!	2001-09-11
US	52872993	RIGG72RUKNBG3	0399147330	300291221	The Shape of Snakes	Books	2	3	5	N	N	Well written, but chilling	Minette Walters is undoubtedly a very talented author, and her ability to write a truly chilling crime mystery which keeps you guessing to the end makes all of her books very entertaining.<br />And I must say I enjoyed the style of writing in this book very much.  I like the way she intersperses the story with letters, e-mails, medical and police reports and the like.  It all adds texture and interest to the story.  But then we are faced with the topic, and it is no simple murder mystery.  In this book she deals with all the horror of things that human beings can do to one another, and strong medicine it is too.  As such I have given the book 2 stars instead of 5 that I would have given for style and narration.<br />The subject matter is vile.  There is prejudice, bigotry, hatred and violence to both humans and animals in all of its ugly glory, and it sickened me.  I have read many books with equally graphic horrors without bother - perhaps it is a testament to Ms Wlaters' writing that it got to me so effectively.  The end of the book is utterly heart rending and shocking and stayed with me for days.<br />Well, you might say, it is a murder mystery.  Surely all such stories are ugly be definition?  Perhaps, but with this one Ms Walters has quite outdone herself, and despite all of her undoubted writing skills and ability to tell a tale, this is quite a difficult book to read and to feel comfortable with.	2001-09-11
US	52872993	R3LLIKGI883DOV	0385334117	214668017	Zarafa: A Giraffe's True Story, from Deep in Africa to the Heart of Paris	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Delightful	This is a surprising little book that tells you so much more than the adventures of a giraffe in her way to post-revolutionary France.  Anyone interested in Egyptology or the Ottoman Empire will also be surprised by the little bits of interesting information that permeate the tale.<br />It is only a small book, but it is a big story.  At times the writing itself appears a little stilted, but the author does a good job with the topic nonetheless.  It is well worth reading.	2001-09-11
US	52872993	R26WCQRZ0RQBWK	0312254954	923817950	Delirium of the Brave	Books	2	4	8	N	N	Dreadfully disappointing	It is with interest that I picked up this book based on the glowing reviews here on Amazon.  I like novels of American history, and I am especially fond of generational sagas. However, I must confess that I was very disappointed, because even though the story holds a great deal of promise in terms of its plot and location, it is very badly written.<br />My chief gripe is the very poor character development.  The reader gets to know very little of any of the characters because the author has attempted to cram so much into their lives.  For example, one of our heroes loves a girl, loses girl, takes up with another, goes to war, suffers dreadful injuries, studies to become a priest, takes a break from this, miraculously recovers from injuries and finds girl again.  Any of these elements of his life is worthy of closer scrutiny, but they are all glossed over in the unseemly haste to make this a sprawling epic.<br />Even the bad guys get a rush job.  None of the elements of a truly evil character are really brought to the fore, and they are by far the most interesting people in this busy novel.<br />And to add insult to injury the ending was so predictable that I could have screamed.  After all I had only perservered with it to find out how it ended.  I could have given it 1 star for the writing, but I decided to give it 2 stars in order to acknowledge that it could have been a really magnificent novel.	2001-09-10
US	52872993	R2UJ2UFOC1V0K	9997213696	643957412	Secrets of the Gnomes	Books	5	14	15	N	N	Lovely sequel to Gnomes	If you own the first book of Gnomes by these talented authors and illustrators, then you really do need to find a copy of this one.  It has the same magic and attention to detail, but gives you a greater insight into the lives of these little busy creatures, with just the right amount of whimsy.<br />There is more focus on different tales from various parts of the world, and certainly more of the fabulous drawings.  Again this book is worth the purchase for the illustrations alone.	2001-09-06
US	52872993	R2UXVKMOSUK2TJ	0810909650	390986766	Gnomes	Books	5	113	115	N	N	Is there a more delightful book than this?	Everyone should own this book - it is utterly irresistable!  It has magical characters, magnificent finely drawn illustrations, and presents an overall philosophy of life that we could all learn lessons from.  Please don't be fooled into thinking that it is just a children's book - it is a wonderful addition to any library.<br />It has a believable and detailed discussion of the food is are most loved by gnomes, how they raise their children, when they marry, where they live, what sorts of pets they have (cute mice in little baskets!) and how they tend to animals in the wild.  The section which shows a cut away of their house is worth the purchase price alone - the imagination and thought that has gone into this book is amazing.<br />So if you want a little whimsy in your library, or on your coffee table, this is the book for you.  If you want a book with magnificently detailed ilustrations, this is a book for you.  Overall I think it is a book for everyone who is young at heart, or who likes a little magic in their everyday lives.	2001-09-06
US	52872993	R22YXHBV2XFSL1	014100018X	598461998	Chocolat	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Delicious	This is a lovely book to read, full of delightful characters and thoroughly evil bad guys, set in a picturesque French village.  If you have seen the movie, which is equally delightful, you get the picture, though be warned, some of the characters and scenarios have changed a little on the big screen.<br />If you like chocolate, you will of course like this book.  The descriptions of Vianne's wares are just like standing in a chocolate shop and I suppose that these goodies are the real characters in the book.  It really does evoke the passion of chocolate, and how it can change a life, and even an entire community.<br />If I have a small criticism of the book, it is that it is a little predictable, but then again so is the taste of a good chocolate, and we never let that get in the way!  Enjoy!	2001-09-05
US	52872993	R7GZ8PLDLI2UQ	085617436X	920183834	Nancy Wake	Books	2	30	32	N	N	Fascinating story but poorly written	Nancy Wake was undoubtedly a very brave woman as the title suggests, and indeed her life is fascinating.  As they say, truth is stranger than fiction, and this is a very good story.<br />However it is a very poorly written story, and the stilted manner of the writing detracts from the story.  It is almost childish in its style.<br />Do yourself and Nancy a favour - try another book to learn of her amazing life.	2001-08-23
US	52872993	RT91XETFUEGQU	0195506499	665664955	The Oxford Companion to Aboriginal Art and Culture (Oxford Companions)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	An excellent overview	Australian Aboriginal art is gaining international recognition, and rightly so.  It is an art form driven by the culture of the artsists, and this book covers the traditional works of desert Australia, and also touches on more the more contemporary works of urban dwellers.  These works are vibrant and alive, and the illustrations do justice to the richness of the work.  The accompanying text is detailed and authoritative.<br />If you are interested in the art works of other cultures, or even art in its broadest sense, you will find many of the works presented in this volume to be quite different, even provocative.  Others are as spectacular as any landscape known to the Western world.<br />This is an excellent introduction to a complex topic, and a worthy addition to any library.	2001-08-23
US	52872993	R2U6P6KH0PJF6R	0139215859	46841570	The Tiger Skin Rug	Books	5	2	2	N	N	An all time favourite!	This is my husband's favourite children's book - discovered when he was 35!  It is the story of an elderly starving tiger, who decides to masquerade as a tiger skin rug in order to access the table scraps of the Maharaja's family, and therefore live a little longer.  In the process he saves the life of the Maharaja, and becomes a much loved member of the family.<br />It is an utterly delightful story.  The tiger is appropriately tatty and dejected, but after several night time munchings and days as a rug he becomes fatter and sleeker, and the family speculate endlessly on how the old rug seems to be improving with age.<br />The book is wonderfully illustrated, and just a joy to share with children who can all feel for the poor tiger.  It may well be my husband's favourite - it is also one of mine as well.	2001-08-23
US	52872993	RQNN31DII19AP	0486228517	256864930	The Complete Engravings, Etchings and Drypoints of Albrecht Drer (Dover Fine Art, History of Art)	Books	5	22	22	N	N	An excellent overview of master works	Albrecht Durer was a Master artist in many forms and this book does justice to his work.  It has excellent plates and detailed text, and is a worthy addition to any library, expecially one which concentrates on fine art books.<br />If you are not familiar with the works of Durer, this is an excellent introduction.  His attention to detail is unsurpassed in an artist of his time.  If you are already an admirer, the text will give you some insights into his life and times that you had not before been aware of.  It is a good quality book and well worth the purchase.	2001-08-22
US	52872993	R2MBB6R3C62S0D	0877017883	129179199	Griffin & Sabine:  An Extraordinary Correspondence	Books	5	3	3	N	N	A lovely little book	The true attraction of this book is that it is correspondence - letters to and from people who are at first wrapped in mystery, and whose characters develop over the length of the book.  And don't we all love to read letters!  Especially other people's - there is something mysterious and forbidden about it.  The letters are beautifully written, and really engross you with their richness and detail.<br />And it is a beautiful looking book too.  The illustrations are wonderful - it is almost like a grown up child's book.  Ultimately, it is appealing in all ways.  I can recommend it to any worthy book collector!	2001-08-22
US	52872993	R1J11RE8P5JORR	0887308813	896542073	Dogbert's Top Secret Management Handbook	Books	5	13	15	N	N	Read it and weep - it is terrifying!	The true horror in this fantastically funny book is its incredible accuracy.  For any one who works in a corporate environment with levels of management it reads like a horror story, all the more frightening because you know all of the characters personally.<br />Yes it is hysterically funny.  But read it at your own peril.  You will never look at your colleagues and managers in the same way.	2001-08-21
US	52872993	RKXIP169O33PA	0810919397	390794156	Animalia	Books	5	11	11	N	N	Delightful and magical	I first came across this magnificent book many years ago and remain enchanted by it to this day.  It is an utterly delightful book, and it is definitely not a book written just for children.  For people who appreciate colourful art and illustration, this is a worthy addition to your collection.<br />It is a magical book to share with children too, though I suspect it simply may be too detailed to appeal to a child if left to read it themselves.  It is the sheer complexity of the book that makes it attractive, and so much fun to share.<br />If you buy only one children's book for its illustrations, make it this one.	2001-08-16
US	52872993	R3U8YAPA52WTEF	0060987510	195525767	These Is My Words: The Diary of Sarah Agnes Prine, 1881-1901 Arizona Territories	Books	5	3	4	N	Y	Hugely entertaining	I love books with strong characters, and Sarah, namesake of the book, lives up to all the reader's expectations.  She is feisty, she is brave, and she lives through all the horrors you expect in a richly detailed historical drama of pioneering Americans.  And to make it all the more entertaining, it is her diary.  This is very appealing to all of those who like to see in the secret hearts of our characters - what better way but to read their diary?<br />The writing of the diary itself is masterful.  Sarah's literacy improves with the years, making the book easier to read.  And along the way she meets and at first scorns the man of her dreams, who is definintely one of the more romantic male characters of recent fiction.<br />Overall it is the most enjoyable book I have read in ages.  It is fast, it holds your attention and it is a fine love story.  What more can a reader want?	2001-08-16
US	52872993	R2U59R5G0WK7FE	0345416260	21574649	Pope Joan: A Novel	Books	5	25	28	N	Y	Entertaining historical fiction	I first found this novel after seeing a documentary on the myth or truth of Pope Joan, and found that I wanted to know more of this amazing story.  What I found was a well crafted and entertaining historical novel, and if I am none the wiser as to whether the story is truth or fiction, I am still well satisfied with the adventure and the characters.<br />It is a richly detailed story of medieval life, and a story of a strong young woman with formidable intellectual abilities, stifled by her womanhood in a male dominated world.  In an effort to gain the education she so badly wants, she takes on the persona of her slain brother, and rises through the church ranks to that of Pope.<br />It may be a fanciful story, and it may not be.  They say that truth is stranger than fiction.  But in the absence of anything but shreds of myth, the story makes for very good fiction.	2001-08-16
US	52872993	R3USAGAVS54E4G	0385486804	674569455	Into the Wild	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Imaginative and compelling story	This is a fascinating tale of an ill fated young man, and how his thirst for adventure and a different life in the wilderness led to his untimely demise.  It is a scholarly piece, well researched with gentle sensitivity, and all in all paints an evokative picture of Chris McCandless and his days travelling the vast north American continent.<br />Of equal interest are the other tales of equally ill fated young men who have chosen similar lives, and the author's own hair-raising adventures, which put an interesting perspective on the topic.<br />It is really an engtossing tale, which reminds me in many ways of &quot;A Perfect Storm&quot;.  It's well written, a fascinating topic, and an interesting insight into those people who will always live in the fringes of our society.	2001-08-15
US	52872993	RVMXHQ0E0Q5OS	0375506276	990748107	The Fourth Hand	Books	2	3	5	N	N	Rambling and disappointing	I did not like this book.  I probably wouldn't have finished it, but it was a gift from someone who knows that I love &quot;A Prayer for Owen Meaney&quot; and &quot;The World According to Garp&quot;, which are magnificent books.  Alas, this is not.<br />It rambles, it has poor characterisation, and what's worse, I didn't care about any of the characters.  It is actually quite a dull book.  John Irving is a very talented author, but this is a great disappointment.	2001-08-07
US	52872993	R2LBMJ78ZP8LFE	0312211112	455386891	Food and Feast in Tudor England	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Fascinating	This is a really fascinating book for anyone with a passing interest in either history or food!  Yes, you foodies out there will find it to be a really good read.<br />The different chapters of the book deal with different aspects of the everyday life.  And it is well written too - not just a dry historical text, but a rich detailing of what was available to eat and how it looked.  Most people have seen grand feasts on TV or movies, such as whole roasted peacocks with their feathers put back, and yes, you can read of such extravaganzas right here!<br />It is a really interesting book - guaranteed to generate conversation if you leave it out the next time you have a dinner party.  It is good fun too, and always interesting!	2001-07-04
US	52872993	R3G9DL31Z7G0ET	0872432343	595552490	Hilaire Belloc's Cautionary Verses	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Delightful!	I learnt lots of these poems as a child in school - perhaps I had a teacher with a wicked and somewhat warped sense of humour!  And I have never forgotten how wonderful they are.  My personal favourite is about poor Jim, who gets into so much trouble, but the others are equally delightful.<br />These gleefully moral tales are never out of date.  Children will be naughty, and a good rhyme has a timelessness of its own.  Share them with your own children and be amused together!	2001-07-04
US	52872993	R34ESWKK2OO0TD	0140274375	68382602	The Underground Man	Books	4	8	8	N	N	Well done, and certainly different	This is an interesting book, about the type of truly eccentric and driven man that can only have been produced by the Victorian aristocracy.  It is an interesting mixture of the main character's journal (which is by far the majority of the text) and the observations of the local people and staff on his estate.<br />It is certainly a fascinating and richly detailed account of what would be considered at any time chronic eccentricity bordering on madness - the endless underground tunnels and odd eating habits alone are enough to convince you of this, but what I feel is a small weakness of the novel is that there is simply not enough external observations of the Duke.  Those observations by the house-keeper and the footman etc are little gems of insight, but they are too few.<br />The prose itself is beautiful, and once again invokes the feeling of the time wonderfully.  It is a fine novel, well worth a read.	2001-07-04
US	52872993	R1SPBEJEIPT7FG	0399225021	498460723	The Sword in the Stone	Books	5	8	10	N	N	Wondeful story of the boy before he was King!	\\"The Once and Future King\\" is a delightful series of stories, but this is by far the superior, and first off the rank.  It is the story of Wart, a hapless orphan boy, and his adventures once his new tutor Merlin arrives on the scene (some of you may be aware of the Walt Disney animated movie of the same name).<br />This is real adventure stuff and is appealing to both young readers and grown ups alike.  Wat and his friends have all manner of exciting escapades as birds, as fish, and as combatants with witches, and in the background there is all the fanciful goings on of a very disorganised medieval castle.<br />There are many novels which deal with the Arthurian legend, some well, most tastefully, and some take themselves entirely too seriously.  This is just plain good fun and well written too.  Enjoy yourself!	2001-06-27
US	52872993	R26X9RFG33LI50	0451167716	638098276	The Godfather (Signet)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Great book of families, history and crime!	This is a great book on many levels.  Firstly it is a fascinating and detailed book of an Italian family living and loving in the land of opportuntity.  It is historically accurate, richly detailed, and utterly believable.<br />Secondly it has wonderful characters.  The Don himself and his family; the different people from varied circumstances who are driven to ask him favours for whatever reasons; and the people of rural Sicily.<br />Finally it is a great crime story.  Who can forget the horse's head in the bed?  The shooting in the cafe?  The revenge wreaked on a daughter's rapists?  This is really powerful stuff, and so well written that you forget the horror of it all.<br />This is a truly great book, of difficult times, driven people and how they evolve into what they are.  It is a classic that should be on everyone's reading list.	2001-06-27
US	52872993	R31QJ9Y6JANG6Q	055327094X	235033926	QB VII	Books	5	45	48	N	N	Fascinating human approach to the horror of the Holocaust	I think that this is Leon Uris's finest book, and the fact that it tackles such an unspeakable atrocity as the Holocaust makes it all the more powerful.  The characters are fascinating - we have the military hero author who is being sued and who is the less sympathetic of the two protagonists, and the doctor who has been slandered - who appears to be a man who has dedicated his life to helping people.<br /><br />But is it all as it seems?  Interspersed with the well crafted and written story of the lives of these two men we also have the pomp and formality of the British Court System.  This in itself makes the book one of the finest legal thrillers I have read.<br /><br />Ultimately such a story must have an ending.  And what an ending!  As they say, you read a book to get to the ending and you won't be disappointed.  It is a fabulous novel and one I highly recommend.	2001-06-27
US	52872993	R3BVPVZBEBRBZY	0553506307	467910986	Dark Angel	Books	5	16	16	N	N	Magnificent and complex whodunnit	This is one of my favourite books, and I almost didn't pick it up as the title led me to think that it would be a ho-hum romance. How wrong I was!<br />It is a complex and detailed murder story, with some of the best drawn characters I have ever read in a book. It is quite unusual in that for, perhaps the first quarter of the book, you are never really sure of the relationships between the characters who are told in rememberance by our narrator, and who is the god-daughter of the chief character Constance. This is not a criticism, it is an interesting plot device which allows us to really get to know the characters before they are put into some other context - that of their relationships with the narrator and the fascinating Constance.<br />Constance herself is a total enigma, and around her swirl the cast of the novel and the horrendous death which took place in 1910, on a night when many were gathered to see Halley's comet. Was the death a terrible accident, or something more sinister?<br />It is absolutely engrossing, and sometimes shocking. It will keep you guessing about many things until the very end and you won't be able to put it down.	2001-06-27
US	52872993	R1KYUXDKN5U6RE	0804115613	8343212	Fried Green Tomatoes at the Whistlestop Cafe	Books	5	0	0	N	Y	Delightful	I first purchased this book after being enchanted by the movie, and whereas I was prepared to be disappointed (expectations and all) I found that I liked the book just as much and for different reasons.<br />The story line that I so loved is there - the story of friendships across the ages and through different hardships.  And the feeling of the warmth of the South shines through as well.  But it is Fannie Flagg's use of the written word that pleased me as well, it is lyrical, and it touches the heart.<br />This is only a short novel, but it is so full of passion and humour that it is hard not to think of it as a big book.  It is delightful and I recommend it highly.	2001-06-27
US	52872993	R3D8Q431VIHLIL	0688003478	693502039	The Merlin Trilogy	Books	5	5	7	N	N	Enchanting and different approach	These are delightful books.  If you enjoy Arthurian legends, and I certainly do, you will love these books.  However they are somewhat diffferent to books in this genre as they have Merlin as the central character, and it is a very human and fallible Merlin to boot.<br />Mary Stewart has shown some masterful skills with these novels.  It is rare to read a book about a character and still be aware all along that he or she is not really what it is all about.  The historical details are rich and finely painted, and Merlin himself is an entirely believable character - a loner, desperate for friends, and even more desperate to discover the identity of his father - tainted with the stain of bastardry as he is.<br />All in all they are, in my opinion, the best books of their type.	2001-06-27
US	52872993	R15PLHN2OWPJQ2	0375726659	814842893	No Great Mischief: A Novel	Books	4	7	8	N	N	Different - not quite what I expected	If you pick up this book and read the back you somehow think that this will be a historical novel - a story of a clan which has made its home in Canada and prospered there.  Well this is true enough, the propsering part anyway, but the history is interwoven with a very modern story.  This is not a criticism as such, as it is an engaging story, but it is not what I expected at all.<br />It is in fact the story of today's McDonalds, told in flashback to our narrator's youth and the trials and tribulations that have made him and his family what they are today.  It is difficult reading in places - the family have not always had happy lives, but there is a quiet splendour in the telling of that story.<br />It is a good book - not a great book I fear, as the story rambles a little and there were times when I wondered where it was going.  But it is an interesting book as are most books which observe families, and the little bits of history thrown in embroider the story nicely.	2001-06-26
US	52872993	R13DALOB0N4N5A	0192142194	156947979	The Oxford Book of Historical Stories	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Great collection of different stories	I bought this book for one story only - the wonderful and witty &quot;A Slice of Medieval Life&quot; which packs a real punch in its 3 and a half pages.  The other stories were neither here nor there really.<br />But I am pleased to report that they all have justified the purchase, and I have enjoyed them all.  This is a great book for people who like their doses of historical fiction, without ploughing through the great heavy tomes in which it is usually presented.<br />The stories are well written and very clever, and all in all this book is well worth your attention.	2001-06-22
US	52872993	RTOHZ8BGQE7M8	1569801584	284005788	Who's Who in Hell: A Handbook and International Directory for Humanists, Freethinkers, Naturalist, Rationalists and Non-Theists	Books	5	22	26	N	N	Quirky and valuable little reference book	This is a really unusual book which is entertaining enough to pick up and read from cover to cover.  However I think its real value is that it is an interesting and detailed reference book.<br />Have you ever read a horror novel that makes reference to some obscure demon up from the pits of Hell?  This book will tell you all about it.  Or some historical romance which makes reference to someone who spoke out against the church?  Again, you'll find them here.  As well as all manner of people who have spoken out against all manner of things throughout history and from all faiths and view points.<br />It was the title that made me pick it up in the first place, and I think the suggestion is that these are people/things who would populate the under-world.  Rather tongue in cheek I think, but eye catching just the same.<br />So if you are a serious reader and you like interesting reference books, pick up a copy of this.  You may surprise yourself at how often you look at it - it is full of fascinating things!	2001-06-21
US	52872993	R3OKEW8C8FC8OJ	1586630687	208237086	Peanuts Treasury	Books	5	12	12	N	N	Lighthearted and funny	If you are a Peanuts fan, then this is the book for you.  It is not expensive, and I note there are some comments on the quality of the print, but this is a comic strip!  How often have you peered at your favourite comic in some tatty old newspaper?<br />The strips aren't in any particular order, but what I like about it is that you can pick it up and open it at any page for a few moments of delight.  All the characters are there, in all the situations you recognise them - Charlie Brown on the pitcher's mound, Snoopy on his kennel, Lucy as psychiatrist and so on.  Just what Peanuts is all about.<br />I think this is a great book to have lying around, and remember, it is a book of comic strips designed to entertain and amuse.	2001-06-21
US	52872993	RI15BV9C5L47V	0394445937	680723515	The Snow Goose	Books	5	26	27	N	N	One of the world's greatest novellas	Paul Gallico is an immensely talented writer, and all his skills are at the fore in this magnificent war story that is really a tale of loneliness and friendship, and how beauty is in the eye of the beholder.<br />I think however, that the reader must be warned that this is a completely gut wrenching story.  I can never read it without dissolving into tears (it is quite therapeutic if you need a good cry), but it is not a &quot;mushy&quot; story as such.  It is profoundly moving, and you will not forget it in a hurry.<br />Everyone should read this beautiful story.  It is a powerful portrayal of the horrors of war and the bravery of men, and a touching story of love and friendship against the odds.	2001-06-20
US	52872993	RSRTG3LRYZID6	0767904540	773255064	On Rue Tatin: Living and Cooking in a French Town	Books	4	6	7	N	N	Almost as good as being there	OK, so the literary world is full of the adventures of intrepid souls who live their lives in foreign countries and then write a book about it.  And aren't we grateful for it!  Susam Loomis does a lovely job of sharing the trials and tribulations of buying and renovating her home in France, and even her occasional cooking mishaps are enjoyable.<br />What I enjoy about this book is that Susan has a young child, and this offers a slightly different perspective to other books in this genre (Peter Mayle's &quot;A Year in Provence&quot; being the most memorable).  As well we have the usual recipes, all sounding delicious, and the day to day amsements and disasters that beset her, all adding up to an enchanting book.	2001-06-20
US	52872993	R1GCE21IHK2476	0750915943	276038454	Mini Sagas	Books	5	1	1	N	N	50-word gems!	These are short (and I mean SHORT) stories of 50 words - no more and no less.  And they are literally mini sagas!  A in terms of literature they are little gems - as you can imagine when you must write exactly 50 words, you chose those words very carefully indeed.<br />There are all sorts of stories here - murder stories, stories of love in old age - everything.  It is a book you can pick up and dip into like a treasure chest, and always find something interesting.	2001-06-20
US	52872993	R175B5FS8AO97G	0345311809	384709649	Shibumi	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Different, fascinating novel	It isn't often that you can sing the praises of a novel that has at its central character a professional assissin, living in rural Basque country, and whose daily obsessions are caving and the Japanese way of Shibumi.  But this is a really great novel, which draws these apparently dissimilar threads together into a truly compulsive read.<br />Not only is our anti-hero quite fascinating in his own right, but we are given an insight into his life and history - the path that was made for him by virtue of his birth and the times in which he has lived.  In the present, we have the fascinating distractions of his caving, and of course his enemies - who make this a truly thrilling story.<br />It is a riveting book - a &quot;read it in one night to see what happens&quot; type of book.  It is Trevanian's best book by far.	2001-06-20
US	52872993	R3EQ5P2Q0FQQKO	1884822282	120339214	Cleveland Amory's Compleat Cat: Cat Who Came for Christmas / Cat and the Curmudgeon / Best Cat Ever	Books	4	20	20	N	Y	Gentle stories for cat lovers	These are very entertaining stories of Polar Bear the cat, and his pet, the author.  They are warm and gentle, like all good animal stories, and will appeal to anyone who loves cats or has any animal in their family who dominates their lives.<br />These are not spectacular, earth shattering stories, but if feel like curling up with a good book, this will fill that requirement well.  They are funny, and touching, and best part is that there is no tearing sadness that sometimes mars such stories.<br />Add a cat on your lap and you've got it made.	2001-06-20
US	52872993	R2ZOBSA52789NG	1865083348	300291221	The Shape of Snakes	Books	3	5	5	N	N	Well written, but chilling	Minette Walters is undoubtedly a very talented author, and her ability to write a truly chilling crime mystery which keeps you guessing to the end makes all of her books very entertaining.<br />And I must say I enjoyed the style of writing in this book very much.  I like the way she intersperses the story with letters, e-mails, medical and police reports and the like.  It all adds texture and interest to the story.  But then we are faced with the choice of the topic, and this is no simple murder mystery.  In this book she deals with all the horror of things that human beings can do to one another, and strong medicine it is too.  As such, I have given this book 3 stars instead of 5 that I would normally have given for style and skill in narration.<br />The subject matter is vile.  There is prejudice, bigotry, hatred and violence in all of its ugly glory, and it sickened me.  I have read many books with equally graphic horrors without bother - perhaps it is a testament to Ms Walter's writing skills that it got to me so effectively.  The end of the book is utterly heart rending and shocking and stayed with me for days.<br />Well, you might say, it is a murder mystery.  Surely all such stories are ugly by definition?  Perhaps, but with this one Ms Walters has outdone herself, and despite her undoubted writing skills and ability to tell a tale, this is quite a difficult book to read and feel comfortable with.	2001-06-20
US	52872993	R1ATC46YE4CXV9	0671871501	188068146	The Male Cross-Dresser Support Group	Books	2	4	7	N	N	Mildly entertaining, but tries too hard to be funny	This is an odd book that actually makes only passing reference to the title (explained a little towards the end), which I assume is mainly for shock value and to entice you to pick it up (it worked for my friend, who lent it to me).<br />Our anti-heroine is entertaining enough, and at times her trials and tribulations are outright funny, but after a while this all begins to wear a little thin.  Her antics become so disastrous, that it is actually difficult to take it all in.  Just somewhere along the line, I needed her to have a break from all the havoc!<br />So whereas this is not what it seems, and it tries to hard to be funny, it may be appealing to readers who like a relatively fast paced book.  But it fell a little short for me.	2001-06-20
US	52872993	R3269BQMPIUHIU	0805064958	678676875	A Good House	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Really draws you in	This is a finely crafted novel about everyday people having everyday lives over a period of some 50 years.  The author looks at life, death, love, hate, injury and healing, and all in all does so in a simple prose that draws you in and makes you really care about what happens to the characters.<br />However, if I have one small criticism, it is that the book is simply not long enough to give all of the detail of the lives of the characters, and it is this which stops it from being a truly spectacular novel.  For instance we know that one of the children born will grow with some sort of physical or mental burden, but it is only hinted at until she is almost fully grown.  Perhaps this is what makes the book so tantalising - the prospect that more will be revealed later, but I found that there was often insufficient to whet the appetite.<br />But in the scope of the novel it is a small criticism, and it is well worth reading.	2001-06-19
US	52872993	RUBE59V1TUCQC	0312195516	226874686	The Red Tent	Books	4	2	4	N	N	A book for women and well worth it	At the risk of sounding sexist, I think this is a fine novel which will appeal to women of all ages.  It is finely written, and thought provoking, and has all the real flavour of biblical times and places.  But it is a novel of women, written by a woman, and in my opinion with the intention to be appealing to women.<br />I sought out the relevant passages in my Bible, and there they were, just the bare bones of the story as Dinah suggests at the beginning of her narrative.  But let me stress, this is the author's FICTIONAL fleshing out of that tale, and to all of those who may be looking for more, you will not find it.<br />What you will find is a riveting tale of women living and loving in difficult times, but coping with humour and wit and grace.  It is a very entertaining novel, and I recommend it.	2001-05-31
US	52872993	R3KZYXHJ5SY3H3	0060187425	237718280	My Soul to Keep	Books	4	0	0	N	Y	An innovative and interesting book	This is a story of the most interesting of questions - do any of us really want eternal life?  It is the story of immortality, and all the issues that will come with it.  And of course it is a fascinating read and one that I recommend.<br />However it falls a little short towards the end and I felt that it failed to answer some of the issues that were raised in the body of the story.  What is to happen to the characters and how will they cope with the changes and challenges they are faced with?  Perhaps I just like completion at the end of my books, but this aside, it is a very good read.	2001-05-30
US	52872993	R7RK1TMCO22UV	0380730448	314432707	The Adrian Mole Diaries : The Secret Diary of Adrian Mole, Aged 13 3/4 : The Growing Pains of Adrian Mole	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Delightful	This is a VERY funny book, written with a great deal of poignancy and insight into the mind of a 13 year old boy.  This in itself is surprising, seeing as how the author is NOT a 13 year old boy!<br />We follow Adrian through the trials and tribulations of his parents' marital conflicts, the angst of unrequited love and the heady pleasures of then attaining that love, and all the usual issues with being a boy in school with teenage acne.  A particularly funny scene is where the doctor assures Adrian that he is only suffering from acne, and that Lassa Fever is unlikely as he has not been to Africa recently.  Adrian decides to get a paper round so that he can consult a private doctor in the future.<br />I cannot receommend it highly enough - it is a wonderful pick me up book for a dull day!	2001-05-30
US	52872993	R2X5G0QDY8UF15	0060194189	978413353	Renato's Luck	Books	4	0	0	N	N	A lovely gentle story	This is the delightful tale of Renato and his friends, family and fellow villagers, in a small village in Tuscany that is soon to be flooded to make a new dam.  Renato feels that life has lost its flavour, and is pondering his future when a dream makes him realise that he must do something to change this.<br />It is a lovely story and the narrator really makes you feel that you know the colourful characters and can identify with how their lives are changing.  It has the expected happy ending and is in all a satisfying read.<br />If I have one small criticism of the book, it is that on occasions you do wonder where the dialogue is all going.  And at times I became impatient for Renato to get on and do what he has to do in order to make the change to his and everyone's lives.  But this is a small criticism - it really is a very good book, and one I recommend.	2001-05-30
US	52872993	RDQQYWBUR5PYM	0140186395	974134151	East of Eden (Penguin Twentieth Century Classics)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	A truly great book	This is one novel I read when I want to appreciate the mastery of the writing as well as the pleasure of the story itself.  Steinbeck sure has a way with words!  The story itself is almost the stuff of soap operas - two brothers and a woman one of them marries, twin children abandoned by their mother (the aforementioned woman) who becomes a madam, and a wonderful Chinese character who is never quite what he seems.  But what a wonderful story it is!<br />The characters are very well drawn, and Cathy is one of the best evil characters to fill the pages of a novel in a long time.  There are of course the parralels to Cain and Abel, but that was a fairly simple story, and this one certainly isn't!  A truly great read and one I highly recommend.	2001-02-15
US	52872993	R29IZN8GT3AX8B	0446675954	75216949	A Thousand Suns	Books	4	5	7	N	N	Interesting	This is an interesting book by a man who has obviously had a fascinating life.  He takes us across many continents and interviews many people, throwing in anecdotes about his life and interests.<br />However what stops me giving this book a 5 star rating is the fact that I feel that some of the topics are given superficial treatment (despite the lengths of the chapters), and there is too much emphasis on the author's own involvement.  Fair enough, you might say, it is his book about his experiences, but I feel it is these experiences which should take central stage.<br />This is however only a small criticism, and it is a VERY interesting book, about interesting people in interesting times.	2001-02-14
US	52872993	R3B1A7LEESOTI2	0312958129	994326351	Coming Home	Books	4	4	6	N	N	A lovely book - 4 and a half stars really	This is a very gentle and entertaining book, typical of Ms Pilcher and it really does show how she is a master of this style of writing.  We have well drawn and defined characters, beautiful countryside and exotic locations, and the usual measure of heartache, angst and happiness.<br />However if I have a criticism, and it is a very small one, it is that there are occasions where the characters simply don't quite gel in their relationships with each other.  The grand passions presented fall just a little short of being as grand as they should be, and the novel is a little sadder because of it.  But only a very little sadder - it is a wonderful and lovely book, and I recommend it highly.	2001-02-14
US	52872993	R2TLX23ACVMO5K	0394586603	285433541	Latin for All Occasions: Lingua Latina Occasionibus Omnibus (English and Latin Edition)	Books	5	8	9	N	Y	Very funny	This is a rather unusual book, with all manner of everyday and bizarre sayings nicely translated into Latin for your amusement/education/use at a dinner party.  Just as with his very funny &quot;French for Cats&quot;, the real humour lies in the really odd things he has taken the time to translate - things like &quot;I believe that Elvis is still alive&quot;.<br />It is a good fun coffee table book, and a must for any serious collector of great humour books.	2001-02-14
US	52872993	R2PORMC2DVOWPT	0312924801	400209095	September: A Novel	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Worthy sequel to &quot;The Shell Seekers&quot;	I just adore &quot;The Shell Seekers&quot; which I consider Ms Pilcher's finest book and indeed one of my all time favourites.  So I picked up this book with a great deal of anticipation.<br />I am pleased to say that this book is more than a worthy successor - if indeed successor is the right word.  Of course there is the carry over of some characters, but it is more of a sideways step than a straight out continuation.  It can genuinely hold its own if read without knowing &quot;The Shell Seekers&quot;.<br />It is a fine novel, well written and with an interesting and constantly moving plot.  I recommend it for a lazy weekend and a comfortable sofa!	2001-02-14
US	52872993	R3GVSS9LB2UZ6N	0684825554	509674696	How Green Was My Valley	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Beautiful and compelling	This is a truly magnificent book, which tugs at the heart strings and takes us back to a time when the world was very different.<br />It is a lovely tale of a family which shines through good times and bad, through joy and adversity, and which ultimately provides us with a rich tale cleverly interwoven with some of the strongest characters in literature.  In addition we have the magnificent Welsh country side, the horrors of the mines and the love of a family who cannot manage without each other.<br />It will make you laugh, it will make you cry, and you won't want o put it down until you have finished it.	2001-02-07
US	52872993	RVECDFI1XCVH5	0879235144	275053600	The Decline and Fall of Practically Everybody	Books	5	4	5	N	N	VERY clever and VERY funny	I stumbled across this book and as I am big fan of history made amusing (&quot;1066 and All That&quot; is another classic in this genre) I immediately bought it.  And I'm glad I did.  It is enormously amusing and funnily enough appeas to be historically accurate.<br />The text is funny but the footnotes add another dimension to the humour.  Sometimes they are applicable, and sometimes not, but they will teach you all manner of things not actually included in the text!<br />If you are a history student or just someome who is interested in great past lives, do yourself a favour and read this book.  You will be entertained.	2001-02-06
US	52872993	R2S5UF6IURRKVB	0060199652	822422067	Prodigal Summer	Books	5	2	4	N	N	Just lovely	After the &quot;Poisonwood Bible&quot;, which I enjoyed but found frankly heavy going, I was not sure if I was ready for another large book by Ms Kinsolver.  How wrong I was.  This is a lovely book, gentle and full of the sorts of undemanding lives that most of us lead, and peppered with sadness and happiness.<br />The prose is beautiful, and I could almost imagine that I really was on the moutnain or on the farms of the characters as they pondered their daily lives.  The novel ties it's ends together very well at the end, and you know that the characters will go on with their lives in new ways.<br />If you are looking for a novel with the punch and shock value of her masterpiece &quot;The Posionwood Bible&quot; you will probably be disappointed.  This is a far more mellow and gentle story, but it is lovely just the same.	2001-02-06
US	52872993	RU3533KCOON4	0525945636	356134546	Code to Zero	Books	2	2	2	N	N	Mildly entertaining, but that's all	I really enjoy Ken Follett's books and began this with enthusiasm.  I settled quickly into the tempo of the book, but was thoroughly disappointed with the details which pad out the story - the environment, the history of the times, the fine details of the characters.  This book is set in the scientific world of space exploration in the late 1950s, but it could be set anywhere, at any time.  The only real references to the background subject matter are the headers in italics at the beginnings of the chapters - the book is remarkably light on research - so unlike his other great books.<br />We follow the adventures of our hero who has lost his memory.  Unfortunately, he finds this out and sorts out his life with remarkably little trauma and ease.  He has a history of course, but even this colourful past is pat and unbelievable.<br />This is quite a weak story that kept me entertained enough to finish the book, but no more.  I was frankly disappointed.	2001-01-29
US	52872993	R1RVHROJPX89W1	0393317552	733405472	Guns, Germs, and Steel: The Fates of Human Societies	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Interesting and detailed	This is really quite an interesting book, but many of the premises it offers I had covered in two units of Anthoropology at University.  However it is peppered with enough interesting &quot;incidents&quot; from world history to make it worthy of a read even if you had no real interest in the subject matter.<br />It is reasonably technical, and may be considered &quot;heavy going&quot; by someome disinclined to tackle such a volume.  However it is still popular science, and takes a look at what are fundamentally interesting questions such as &quot;Why did some people develop steel weapons and others kept rock?&quot;, and the bits I find most interesting, &quot;Why did some societies have the really evil germs and others not?&quot;.<br />All in all it is easy enough to read to be of interest to almost anyone.  And it is, after all, quite interesting in a world which may shrink from asking some of these questions because of perceived &quot;political correctness&quot;!	2001-01-29
US	52872993	R1F81ZKAM2Y7GO	0582222907	300417568	The Birds and Other Stories (Imprint Books)	Books	5	24	26	N	N	Chilling	The title story of this collection is the story from which Alfred Hitchcock based his famous movie &quot;The Birds&quot;.  This movie is NOTHING like the story, and it is this original story that brings the terror home in a far more stark and chilling manner.<br />The story evolves around a farmer and his family in an isolated part of England.  The birds gather and attack in more and more numbers as the story progresses, and the tale details the fear the family feels and the lengths they must go to to save their own lives.  It is a marvellously crafted story, and one of the greatest realistic horror tale you will ever read.  You will never look at birds which flock close to you in the same way again.	2001-01-19
US	52872993	R1KISHLF091K9A	0140143505	43936206	84, Charing Cross Road	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Original and delightful!	This novel is all letters- letters exchanged between someone who is interested in old classic books, and someone who sells them.  What could be more dreary and dry I hear you asking yourself.  Nothing could be further from the truth.  What the story really chronicles is a story of a shared passion that becomes a friendship, and in reality an unspoken mutual admiration and eventually love over a 20 year period.<br />It is simply delightful, and the use of the letters as a way of telling the story means that it is different and innovative way of telling the story.  Enjoy!	2001-01-19
US	52872993	R2LJ6SD0CG8JYK	006092988X	892654736	A Tree Grows in Brooklyn	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Magnificent novel	There have been many memoirs of sad and deprived childhoods on the market lately (most notably &quot;Angela's Ashes&quot; by Frank McCourt, which is very good), but this magnificent novel is far superior to any of them.  It is fiction, but it reads like a memoir and is told with an innocence that tugs at your heart.<br />We come to identify very closely with the characters and their deprivations, and rejoice when they do, and sorrow when they do.  It paints a picture of poverty in a city that had a booming economy that makes you feel guilty for having a comfortable home with plenty to eat.  And yet it does not intend to be a confronting novel - it is easy to read and is truly entertaining and heart warming.<br />It is one of the best books of its type, and I cannot recommend it highly enough.	2001-01-19
US	52872993	RU3ZCQCJNT9QI	0380730405	39495389	Rebecca	Books	5	2	2	N	N	One of my favourite books	This is an interesting book in many ways, but what makes it really different to many others is that we never, ever find out the name of our heroine, who narrates the tale, and the Rebecca who gives her name to the title is dead before the story begins.  Thus is the scene set for a fabulously dark and brooding mystery.<br />The characters are wonderful.  We have our nameless heroine, her distant husband Max, whom she loves to distraction, and the malevolent housekeeper Mrs Danvers, who was devoted to Rebecca, the dead but original lady of the house.  And the house itself, beautiful Manderley, with fabulous gardens and deep dark mysteries.<br />It really is a delicious read, good for a stormy night, and despite the tortured relationships and scenarios throughout the story it has a surprising but very satisfying ending.  It is a classic, and deservedly so.	2001-01-19
US	52872993	R1I9W6OBG47QAT	1558586113	328437470	Canterville Ghost, The	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Deliciously funny	Oscar Wilde was the master of witty and amusing stories, and this little novella is no different.  It tells the tale of the poor Canterville Ghost, whose very existence is made miserable by a family of Americans who not only do not believe in him (despite his best efforts at terrorising him), but who do unspeakable things like removing the eternal blood stain in the library.<br />The American family are really well drawn with the children being particularly successful in making the ghost miserable.  And the ghost himself - well, we find ourselves having some symapthy for him, and the end of the story is quite poignant.<br />It is a wonderful story for an older child, but also for an adult.  It is certainly one of my all time favourites.	2001-01-17
US	52872993	R6PJTK32OBUBL	0763601357	464526750	Rikki-tikki-tavi (Candlewick Treasures)	Books	5	16	16	N	N	One of the best children's stories ever	Everyone will love Rikki Tikki Tavi.  He is cute and furry, he has been rescued from certain death by his humans, and best of all he fights snakes in a land where they are an everyday part of life - and death.<br />This is not just a story for children.  The writing is sophisitcated enough to appeal to adults and is very funny in parts, and very touching in others.  But it is a great story to share with children - it touches on all the things we want for our kids - strong and loyal friends, a protective and supportive family, and the ability to know when its time to stand up for yourself, and take risks if you need to.<br />It is a really wonderful story (as are all of Mr Kipling's - to be fair) but this is quite a masterpiece.  Share it with a special child and enjoy it all the more.	2001-01-16
US	52872993	R3QZL76E7MUBW1	0848802705	730595083	Poseidon Adventure	Books	5	2	5	N	N	Great adventure story	Although one of the most famous disaster movies of all time came from this concept, the novel is far superior to Hollywood's version, and it is a testament to Paul Gallico as a writer of skill and ability.<br />We are all familiar with the story - ocean liner turns upside down, and a few survivors clamber to the outer hull.  But what most people don't appreciate is what a fine novel this is - it is absolutely riveting, and we really become involved with the diverse set of characters in what is in reality only a few hours.<br />If you like a great read that will keep you turning the pages, and holding your breath, you'll love this.  It may be out of print but do look for a copy - it will be worth it.	2001-01-15
US	52872993	RIETWYGLW8CDK	0345440773	552837090	The Redemption of Althalus	Books	2	3	3	N	N	Disappointing	I love David Eddings - &quot;The Belgariad&quot; series are among the most loved books of my vast collection, and so I purchased this book with frank expectation of a good read.<br />It starts out well - our hero is well drawn and we are interested in his experiences.  The other characters are introduced and we become interested in them as well. But somehow it just runs out of steam from there, and by the end I was simply pleased to be finished (I confess I did finish because I am one of those people who perservere unless a book is truly atrocious).<br />Overall I was very disappointed.  It is evident that Edding's still has the gift as the characters are well cast and interesting, but the battles are too long, and by the end I didn't care what happened to any of them.<br />Stick to his earlier, far superior works.	2001-01-15
US	52872993	R9TZI8BMVL9KF	0575602902	11986816	Fall of Moondust	Books	5	5	7	N	N	Great science fiction	This was one of the first science fiction stories I ever read, as a keen young 11 year old, and I have never forgotten it.  It is a classic of the genre, and is still believable and interesing today.<br />The characters are well drawn, and the science is detailed and interesting.  I guess it is comparable to a good old fashioned disaster story, and it is this element that would make the story appealing even to those who don't care for science fiction.<br />Arthur C Clarke has always been a great writer, and this is a wonderful story.  It will keep you riveted until the very end.	2001-01-15
US	52872993	R34HTQDBNMBDVG	0345391055	782303291	Disclosure	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Terrific!	This is a great book - past paced, believable and with really well drawn characters (don't let the movie put you off).  In fact I read it in one sitting - you know how this happens - I'll just see what happens in the next chapter and before you know it you've finished!<br />Michael Chrichton has done a believable job in painting sexual harrassment in the workplace, but with a bit of a twist.  It is very entertaining, and I recommend it highly.	2001-01-15
US	52872993	R2N49KXGVA18AR	0582081734	210454695	Shirley Valentine (Longman Literature)	Books	5	24	24	N	N	Delightful	Shirley Valentine is a lovely character.  She is a woman who started her life with fire and promise, and who found herself in her kitchen talking to the walls.  Not because she is mad, but because her life is loveless, predicatable and dry. Until her friend takes her to Greece and her life changes, in many ways.<br />This is an absolutely delightful story.  We can all identify with Shirley and her need to have a life with a little more meaning, and we can all cheer her as she goes about getting it.  This is a poignant, sad and funny story, and it is a modern classic.	2001-01-15
US	52872993	R192IGV1P4XDDB	0451192028	348815754	Light a Penny Candle	Books	5	3	3	N	N	One of her best	This is the first book that I read by Maeve Binchy (thus turning me into a devoted fan) and I consider this one of her finest works.<br />The tale of the friendship of two girls who then become two women is inspiring and uplifting, and though the character's lives become a little complex towards the end, the story carries it all very well.  The settings of England both during and after the war are well painted and realistic, and all in all the story really pulls you in and makes you care for the characters.<br />This is a lovely book to curl up with on a cold winter's night.  Reading Binchy books are like catching up with old friends!	2001-01-15
US	52872993	R3GUE8IO7Q6YT7	0140158073	230793380	Collected Short Stories of Roald Dahl	Books	5	8	10	N	N	Twists and turns!	These are some of the best short stories in the world by the master of the genre.  The stories twist, they turn, they make you laugh and they make you gasp.  It is amazing how he can take stories of the usual and the normal and twist them into something very unusual and abnormal.<br />If you like your good literature in little bites, you cannot go past a great short story.  And these are really GREAT short stories!	2001-01-12
US	52872993	R1EKC2YF9P21S0	0385472951	999720718	The Partner	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Grisham's Best	I consider this to be Grisham's best book.  It has a snappy story line with a nicely complex plot, believable characters and a really good twisted ending (which I have to confess I had not anticipated).<br />This is one of those books which you pretty much end up reading at one sitting - you know the type, where you'll just read one more chapter before putting it down, and before you know it, you've finished.<br />A very enjoyable book, great for Mr Grisham's existing fans, and a good place to start for new ones.	2001-01-12
US	52872993	R155CK3OTYTKMS	0141180781	115007010	The Complete Saki (Classic, 20th-Century, Penguin)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Wonderful, witty stories	These short stories are all wonderful, perfect little bites of literature, full of humour and colour and more than occasionally with a little twist.<br />The stories are also perfect little portraits of the times - Monroe makes comment on the people, the fashions and whatever was in vogue. And he does it very, very well.<br />My favourite is &quot;The Open Window&quot;, which is deliciously funny, but they are all marvellous.	2001-01-12
US	52872993	RCFNKRNZU15BQ	0821226339	520117951	Life: Our Century In Pictures	Books	5	2	5	N	N	The best of its type	At the end of the century it is wonderful to be able to look back and marvel at our most recent history, and what better way to do it than with these magnificent pictures.  We are fortunate indeed that our history can be recorded in this way.<br />This is not the sort of book to leave on a shelf.  Leave it on a coffee table, on a sofa, or on a chair where it will be picked up and looked at with regularity.  It's not only educational - there are memories in there for all of us.  And being a Life book, they are the best pictures of all.	2001-01-11
US	52872993	R173OX46DQ1IJ7	0679768181	432872338	The Prospect Before Her: A History of Women in Western Europe, 1500-1800	Books	5	11	12	N	N	Excellent overview of the lives of women in the past	If you want to thank your lucky stars for the things that are available to us in modern times, read this book.  It is an excellent scholarly overview of the lives and times in the period it covers, but as well it is a fascinating book for anyone who enjoys reading about times past.<br />Each chapter addresses an area that was of interest to women of the times, and remain of interest today - health, cooking etc, and they are so complete in addressing the issues that they read like small essays on their own.<br />This is a really enjoyable book, and not just for its scholarly value.	2001-01-11
US	52872993	R2ZPWPZ24WCWQI	0899668666	461509028	Forever Amber	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Wonderful historical novel	I have always loved this book, and although Amber leaves a fair bit to be desired as a person, she sure makes a great character!  Her trials and tribulations, erratic love life and great passion make this a tale that fairly races along and keeps the reader interested.<br />In addition, Ms Windsor has her historical details right as well - something that I always look for, and she paints the brightness of Reformation England with as much life and vigour as it must have had at the time.<br />If you want a great historical romance, here it is.  Unashamedly a book for a lazy weekend of indulgence!	2001-01-10
US	52872993	R1GSXDWIMDZIKL	0446391387	708948896	The Andy Warhol Diaries	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Great Gossip and picture of the times	If you want a great picture of the New York scene in the 70s and early 80s you can't go  past this book.  Andy Warhol was the ultimate party animal, and his observations of the people he partied with and the places he partied at are witty and insightful.<br />But hey the gossip is great!  Lots of people were uncomfortable when this was published, and with good cause.  It is really quite revealing!<br />If you are interested in the arts scene of the times this is a really revealing book.  If you like a good gossip this is for you.  Enjoy Mr Warhol's 15 minutes of fame!  He appeared to.	2001-01-10
US	52872993	R2RYNVUNR227KP	0375700757	11590154	Cold Mountain: A Novel	Books	3	2	5	N	N	Hard going	I started reading this book with a tremendous amount of anticipation.  I didn't really get what I was expecting.<br />To start with the actual reading of the book is fairly heavy going.  The style of the text, with its arbitrary puctuation, takes some getting used to.  Secondly, the story is almost unrelentingly bleak.  Fair enough it was a dark time in the world, but even the flashback memories fail to offer any enlightenment to the story.<br />And the ending!  Well, I shan't give that away, but it left me very let down.<br />All in all it is an interesting book.  The story is worth reading, and it is a fascinating time in history where men and women did amazing things just to survive.  But it is not a pleasant story, and reading it is hard work.	2001-01-10
US	52872993	R2YB66MHQJCI1Z	0786866683	851933744	The Last Samurai	Books	3	5	14	N	N	Very different and entertaining in parts	This is frankly an odd book.  It jumps all over the place and it is difficult to keep track of the narrative.  It took me almost half the book to become used to this style, and by then we get to the very best bits - Ludo's diary and Ludo's adventures in school, which are hugely entertaining.<br />The characters are interesting, as are their familiy histories and circumstances, but these are also deeply buried in the odd narrative.<br />If you perservere with this book, you will be rewarded with some real gems of humour and style.  But I must say that you have to wade through some very different and distracting writing to get to these gems.	2001-01-09
US	52872993	R1XEOWZD3B2V7M	0440217490	233998989	A Dangerous Fortune	Books	5	4	4	N	N	One of Follett's best	This is an intriguing book, in an historical setting which is richly detailed and explained.  It starts with a murder, which remians unsolved for many years, and goes on to follow the lives of the characters on that fateful day.<br />And it is the characters which carry the story, though of course we all want to know who did it, and we do find out by the end.  But the story along the way is gripping and entertaining, with some real baddies, and a satisfying ending.	2001-01-08
US	52872993	R7RUSTK94KK6Z	0451167538	734693861	Different Seasons (Signet)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Great Stories	I just love Stephen King, and I love his novellas, the greatest of which is in the collection - the superb &quot;Rita Hayworth and the Shawshank Redemption&quot; (which of course has been made into an equally great movie). &quot;The Body&quot; is also another great story, also made into an excellent film.<br />For those of you who think that King is simply a writer of tales to make your flesh crawl, this is a good place to start. In these stories there are great characters, great plots and great endings with a twist.<br />The beauty of these stories are that they are short enough to read in one sitting, but just long enough to leave you wanting more.	2001-01-05
US	52872993	R1LCT8L3M9W4QW	0743210891	867268465	The Green Mile: The Complete Serial Novel	Books	5	1	2	N	Y	Amazing and touching story	This is one of Stephen King's finest works, where he moves away from the pure horror genre (which he does exceptionally well) and gives us an entirely different type of story.  Sure its a story about a horrible subject - a murder, and set in horrible surroundings - a prison, but like &quot;Rita Hayworth and the Shawshank Redemption&quot;, the characters and the story shine through.  And like the &quot;Shawshank Redemption&quot;, the story has a wonderful ending.<br />This was very enjoyable when released as a 6 part serial - I waited for every book.  But this book deserves to be in hardcover in every dedicated reader's library.	2001-01-05
US	52872993	R3OYEOI41YFFM4	0333138619	848043506	Lords of the Golden Horn	Books	5	18	20	N	N	Excellent overview	The Ottoman Empire was a tremendous influence on many of the things we take for granted in the Western World, bringing with it strange concepts such as hygiene and an appreciation of the finer things in life.<br />This book gives a well written and entertaining overview of the rulers of this massive empire, from its earliest days to its eventual demise.  Along the way we meet many of its rulers and marvel at their cruelty and compassion, great leadership and debauchery.  Its a great story, one never dreamt of in fiction, and one well worth reading.	2001-01-05
US	52872993	R2LTHZ1I39L0WG	0691070571	37248030	The Art of the Pre-Raphaelites	Books	5	30	33	N	N	Worthy addition to any art lover's library	This is a beautifully presented book, with ample glossy pictures on good quality paper, and intelligent comment on the artists and the art.  In addition it gives the reader some good background of the times and lives of these wonderful artists.<br />For a long time Pre-Raphaelite art was dismissed as &quot;ktchy&quot; and sentimental, but even a quick perusal of this book will show you images you recognise and have probably long admired.<br />It is a lovely book, both a worthy addition to any coffee table collection and also for any well stocked reference library.	2001-01-05
US	52872993	R18T8BAYPKTQCR	0345340442	800210774	The Belgariad Set, Books 1-5: Pawn of Prophecy, Queen of Sorcery, Magician's Gambit, Castle of Wizardry, & Enchanter's End Game	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Edding's Best!	Of all of David Edding's great fantasy works, The Belgariad stands out as the best.  It has by far the most interesting characters, and yet they are &quot;human&quot; enough for us to be able to dientify with them.  Garion's adventures and realtionships are exciting and interesting, and certainly are entertaining enough to make you want to read all of the books in the series.  The plots also have lots of twists and turns, but true enough the apparently loose ends all come together at the end - a sure sign of a well crafted tale.<br />If you can find these books as a set, then buy it.  If not purchase them all as individual books - they are certainly worth it.	2001-01-05
US	52872993	R1STSWDUME2NVP	0805042458	782081606	Revolution in the Head: The Beatles' Records and the Sixties	Books	5	5	8	N	N	A must for any Beatles fan	This is a really great book for any die-hard Beatles fan.  Have you ever wondered what was meant by &quot;Lucy in the Sky With Diamonds&quot;?  Heard lots of stories about &quot;Yesterday&quot; but wonder how Paul really came to write it?  Confused by all those strings on &quot;The Long and Winding Road&quot;?  Then this is the book for you.<br />It looks at all of the Beatles songs, in chronological order, and gives you little bits of insight into the stories, the logic and the madness that went into their creation.  In a sense it is the history of the Beatles from the music's perspective, and fascinating it is too!<br />I guess this is a little intense for anyone with a passing interest in the Beatles or the music of the 60s, but for the rest of us, it is a wonderful reference book.	2001-01-05
US	52872993	R3EGYWCH6E0BJ6	0345396685	12198688	When Christ and His Saints Slept: A Novel	Books	5	10	11	N	N	Fabulous story	There are times when you wonder why people have to make up stories when history provides such wonderful tales.  The events in English history portrayed here are an excellent example of this, and Ms Penman does a wonderful job narrating them.<br />We have the fabulous characters of Steven and Maude, and their seemingly endless conflict, and we meet her son Henry and the wonderful Eleanor of Aquitaine, some of the most remarkable people in history.  Ms Penman does a wonderful job in animating them for the modern reader.<br />There are adventures aplenty, like Maud escaping from a castle in a snow storm wrapped in a white cloak, as well as all the richly embroidered details of every day life you expect from a great historical novel.<br />Ms Penman is a great writer, as she showed so well with &quot;The Sunne in Splendour&quot;, and this is a great book.	2001-01-05
US	52872993	R1JDRT5P6RSZ41	0441172717	88529599	Dune	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Great science fiction for the non-science fiction fan	Don't get me wrong - I like science fiction as a genre, but some of it is just too technical and unbelievable.  I'm more of a history fan.  And I guess that's why Dune is so appealing - it is a very well crafted science fiction novel, but because of the concept of the family histories, the trade wars and other issues it has the feel of a historical saga as well.<br />In addition there are great characters, inhospitable deserts, evil bad guys and giant worms.  What more could a person want?  But all in all its a real saga - a great book and a great read.  Science fiction fans rejoice, and those who wouldn't normally consider such a book will also enjoy it.	2001-01-04
US	52872993	R2RUG0XK9H38T6	0446363251	861890745	Scarlett: The Sequel to Margaret Mitchell's "Gone With the Wind"	Books	2	3	5	N	N	Dreadfully disappointing	&quot;Gone With The Wind&quot; is my favourite book, and like many others I bought this book because who doesn't want to know what happens with Scarlett and Rhett?<br />I was so disappointed.  Our herione spends at least three quarters of the book acting in a most un-Scarlett like manner, and Rhett seems to have lost some of his bite as well.  If you love &quot;Gone With the Wind&quot;, leave it there.	2001-01-04
US	52872993	R3Q4NSIQ8U9A92	0684868075	301326644	In His Own Write	Books	5	16	18	N	Y	Great Fun!	Anything written by John Lennon is worth having - he was a gem.  This is funny and caustic and enlightening, and will adorn any book shelf.  I can also highly recommend &quot;A Spaniard In the Works&quot;, which is my personal favourite, but hey, why not have both?	2001-01-04
US	52872993	R83OYS8KT205Y	067940676X	390063795	French for Cats: All the French Your Cat Will Ever Need	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Completely silly	This is really a very funny book and it leaves one wondering if Mr Beard has been a cat in a previous life.  His perception of all the French a cat would need is clear indeed.<br />If you know someone with a cat, this would make a very fine gift.  Just don't leave it lying where their furry companion can find it - it may just give them some ideas!  It would similarly make a great gift for a young person grappling with French lessons - it would give them something to astound their teacher with!	2001-01-04
US	52872993	R2143CG7CGP28I	034536676X	680934194	The World According to Garp	Books	5	0	0	N	N	One of the all time best books	I just love Garp - he is one of my favourite literary characters.  His life, which he yearns to be boring and normal, is a reader's delight, from his unorthodox conception to the trials and tribulations of his marriage.<br />But this book is not just about Garp, it is about finding the unusual in every day things, about rejoicing in sadness and about making the best of what you have.  It is a truly delightful book, and I rank it just as highly as I do Irving's other great masterpiece &quot;A Prayer for Owen Meaney&quot;.  I don't like all of Irving's books, but this is wonderful, and it should be on everyone's &quot;must read that someday&quot; list.	2001-01-04
US	52872993	R18U3CM46KLQ0J	076790382X	213092180	I'm a Stranger Here Myself: Notes on Returning to America After 20 Years Away	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Delicious bites of humour	This is Bryson at his best - short essays designed for a newspaper column and witty as anything.  Some of them made me laugh aloud, and they're great for reading snippets to you partner in bed (especially the part about the number of people in the US who have been injured by their bedding).<br />Some of the essays have contents that are a little obscure, but there is enough humour here to amuse almost anyone.  If you like short stories and appreciate dry, sometimes sarcastic humour, you'll love this.	2001-01-03
US	52872993	R2FE72Q9FNWQUW	0789450739	686202907	To the Best of My Ability: The American Presidents	Books	3	6	7	N	N	Good general reference, but a bit brief!	This is a great reference book for those who want to check on the highlights of each President's term, but I found it somewhat lacking in details.  I guess I was looking for a history of America from the President's desk, and I didn't get it.<br />However it is entertaining enough, and would be a good addition to any library.	2001-01-02
US	52872993	R9LTEUXMEODRT	0060930535	951868170	The Poisonwood Bible (Oprah's Book Club)	Books	4	5	6	N	N	Different and profoundly touching	I must confess up front that this is a difficult novel to get into - I found the style of the 5 different narrators off putting.  But I perservered because the subject matter interested me, and I was amply rewarded.  It is a novel which makes you count your every day blessings, and it is a novel which will make you look at things you take for granted in an entirely new light.<br />As the novel progresses you do come to identify with the characters and their trials and tribulations.  Some of the issues it addresses are shocking.  It is also very sad.  But it is a well crafted novel.<br />I feel that it loses some of its momentum in the final chapters after their &quot;escape&quot; from the Congo, but this is only a small criticism, and the novel is pulled together nicely by the last chapter.<br />This is a difficult novel to read at several levels, but this is also a very good novel, and well worth your time.	2000-11-29
US	52872993	R2NN2TRCA2URKQ	006101351X	637283524	The Perfect Storm: A True Story of Men Against the Sea	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Shocking	This is an absolutely shocking book, but equally compulsive reading at the same time.  I just couldn't put it down.  The author states at the beginning of the book that he didn't wish to make up conversations and thoughts for the various ill fated men who people his book, and it is this cold and clinical distance that makes the book the riveting tale that is is.  But at the same time the thoughts and memories of the people who loved them are touching and sad, and it gives the book an additional depth that it would otherwise have lacked.<br />It is a very cleverly written book, on a topic that you wouldn't think would have universal appeal, but it is a book you should read nonetheless.  You won't forget it.	2000-11-13
US	52872993	RJ0OAZPLX64T9	0525945938	359050157	Scarlet Feather	Books	5	20	23	N	N	A great read, as one would expect	Once again with &quot;Scarlet Feather&quot; we see all of Maeve Binchy's trademark techniques.  We have the canvass of lovely Ireland, particularly bustling modern Dublin; we have well drawn characters whom we love, hate or merely sympathise with; and we have all the ups and downs of our heroes' day to day existence.<br />This book will be of course be compared to Binchy's other books, but I have found that it is difficult to say which of her books are the best.  They are all different, all lovely to read, and you miss them all when they are over.<br />It will be very appealing to old fans (which unashamedly I am), and hopefully win her some more.	2000-11-13
US	52872993	R16DAE11ANXOAO	0525945938	359050157	Scarlet Feather	Books	5	0	0	N	N	A great read, as one would expect	Once again with &quot;Scarlet Feather&quot; we see all of Maeve Binchy's trademark techniques.  We have the canvass of lovely Ireland, particularly bustling modern Dublin; we have well drawn characters whom we love, hate or merely sympathise with; and we have all the ups and downs of our heroes' day to day existence.<br />This book will be of course be compared to Binchy's other books, but I have found that it is difficult to say which of her books are the best.  They are all different, all lovely to read, and you miss them all when they are over.<br />It will be very appealing to old fans (which unashamedly I am), and hopefully win her some more.	2000-11-13
US	52872993	R25IRBTWE8JKH7	0767900383	632913221	Under the Tuscan Sun: At Home in Italy	Books	4	1	2	N	N	A gentle and entertaining read	It is with interest that I have read some of the less flattering reviews  for this book.  I think it is a lovely opportunity for a little escapism,  in the warmth of an Italy that many of us will never have the good fortune  to experience.  So what if it is somewhat of a self oriented story that  makes little mention of the people?  It is a gentle and interesting story,  and I have enjoyed it thoroughly.	2000-09-19
US	52872993	R3LNPQGSZK3UVY	0312961251	766412949	Sleeping Tiger	Books	2	0	1	N	N	A gentle tale but definitely not Pilcher's best	Rosamund Pilcher writes the most engrossing tales with strongly drawn  characters and rich plots, but this is by far her weakest tale.  It is  certainly entertaining enough in a gentle way, but only as an average  romance, and nothing else.  Even there it begins to flounder, as I found  myself unconvinced of the growing feelings between the characters, and  found the ending to be flat and quick, almost as if she had run out of  ideas.<br />If you are reading this review, please do not be put off - Pilcher  is one of my favourite authors and I would rate all of her other books 4 to  5 stars.  Find &quot;The Shell Seekers&quot; and be enchanted.	2000-09-15
US	52872993	R34GIA1UF1IMM2	0312961251	766412949	Sleeping Tiger	Books	2	10	11	N	N	A gentle tale but definitely not Pilcher's best	Rosamund Pilcher writes the most engrossing tales with strongly drawn  characters and rich plots, but this is by far her weakest tale.  It is  certainly entertaining enough in a gentle way, but only as an average  romance, and nothing else.  Even there it begins to flounder, as I found  myself unconvinced of the growing feelings between the characters, and  found the ending to be flat and quick, almost as if she had run out of  ideas.<br />If you are reading this review, please do not be put off - Pilcher  is one of my favourite authors and I would rate all of her other books 4 to  5 stars.  Find &quot;The Shell Seekers&quot; and be enchanted.	2000-09-15
US	52872993	R1EZ3E19LCODBG	0312170238	531337250	The Shell Seekers (Tenth Anniversary)	Books	5	3	5	N	Y	An absolutely beautiful tale	&quot;The Shell Seekers&quot; is a true modern masterpiece - a great book  with a fascinating and endearing story, wonderful characters with complex  and believable natures, and set in some of the most picutresque country  side in the world.  It is difficult to do this book enough justice - it is  simply magnificent.  Have a laugh and a good cry with this book (and you  would have to be very strong not to shed a tear!), and hold it close to  your heart.<br />It is a book to love and treasure and always recommend to  others.	2000-09-15
US	52872993	RTNDJ3Z644UBW	0517189186	302380866	Clan of the Cave Bear (Earth's Children)	Books	5	0	1	N	N	Fascinating!	I first purchased this book nearly 20 years ago, and each time I re-read it I find new and fascinating things within.  There is no doubt that this  is a meticulously researched and crafted novel, and we all learn to  identify with the waif Ayla as she struggles to survive with her new  family.<br />However I must say that even though I have read and enjoyed all  the books in the series so far (one just has to know how Ayla is faring!),  this is by far THE strongest and best. The characterisations are strong,  and the trials and tribulations of the clan believable.  Please don't be  put off by the success of the series, this book is a gem which can more  than stand by itself.	2000-09-15
US	52872993	RWQ01HKFQZUBM	0553283685	47311872	Hyperion (Hyperion Cantos)	Books	5	0	1	N	N	Well constructed and entertaining	This is a very entertainng read - well constructed and thought out science  fiction which ranks it up there with &quot;Dune&quot; and &quot;Ender's  Game&quot;.  What is particularly appealing is the way each character  unfolds their story as their pilgrimage progresses, with each story very  different but equally as interesting.  The world of the future is painted  as vivid and believable, though I do agree with some other reviewers who  have commented that the author appears to be totally obsessed with John  Keats.<br />A final comment - don't bother reading Keats' poem  &quot;Hyeprion&quot; if you are not already familiar with it - it sheds  little light on the complexity of the novel.<br />Over all it is a rich,  detailed and enjoyable epic, great for escapism and one which I thoroughly  recommend.	2000-09-12
US	52872993	R3YYTQGI4FHY	0863277144	490434193	A Sense of Humus	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Witty but really just for gardeners	I received this book from a friend who is a passionate gardener and who  thought this was the loveliest thing she had read in years.  My great  passion is reading, not getting dirty in the garden, but she thought that I  would still share her enthusiasm.<br />To a certain extent I do, and it is  certainly full of warm and witty stories and anecdotes relating to the joys  of gardening.  But it is just that which has failed to hold my attention.  It is about gardening.<br />If you can find a copy for a gardening friend, or  if your greatest joy is planting, weeding and identifying obscure flowers,  you will adore this book.  If not you will still appreciate its warm  humour.<br />A nice book, which could be truly wonderful, depending on your  ties with the garden!	2000-09-12
US	52872993	R3P3XSJKGAQK3P	0312244266	997866733	Winter Solstice	Books	4	12	12	N	N	Like an old friend visiting	This is, like all of Pilcher's books, warm and inviting, with well drawn  characters and picturesque surroundings.  However it evolves around a  shocking accident, and more than once I was reduced to tears. But many of  Pilcher's books have sadness in them - perhaps this is part of their charm.  If I have any criticism of the book, it is that it was surprisingly  predictable, and indeed all that I thought would happen did in due course.  However, this is a very small criticism, and I must say I enjoyed it  despite the sadness.  Pilcher's books can be read and reread again, and it  is just like having an old friend to visit.	2000-08-24
US	52872993	R2SZIL0YLCQ5SN	0380012774	586166490	The Importance of Being Earnest	Books	5	11	12	N	N	Clever and witty even today!	This is Wilde's best play, it is fast moving, has wonderful characters  (especially the women), and funnily enough is still a pretty accurate  observation of society.  Perhaps nothing ever really changes!  At the core  of the play is the name Earnest, and all that it means to the various  characters, and how their white lies and complicated lives catch up with  them.  And the lines - wonderful ones like &quot;I always carry my diary -  a lady should always have something scandalous to read on the train&quot;,  and &quot;if you are not too long, I shall wait for you forever!&quot;.  Be  assured, all works out well in the end, and all shall be revealed as to how  important it is to be Earnest.	2000-08-07
US	52872993	REBDXHW8C4C94	0312264100	150979101	The Vintner's Luck	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Lovely, but not quite what I expected	I bought this book on the strength of the spiel on the cover, and whereas  it is a very good book with strong well defined characters, it was not  quite what I expected. The Angel Xas is definitely the centre of the story,  but (and perhaps foolishly) I expected a gentler and more angelic  character.  So if you're looking for the standard story of beautiful angels  with wings that smell of snow, this is not for you.  That aside it is still  an engrossing and clever read, and I do recommend it.	2000-08-07
US	52872993	R2YSPL1753CWRW	0679600892	441030650	The Thurber Carnival (Modern Library)	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Wonderful, witty AND has &quot;Walter Mitty&quot; in it!	James Thurber does a wonderful job of sharing his life's recollections with us, as well as his delightful short stories, including the magnificent &quot;The Secret Life of Walter Mitty&quot;.  This is one of the great all  time short stories, and should be reason enough to buy this book.  The  boigraphical essays are however, also quite delicious, especially those  that make references to the passing parade of dogs in his life, and the  entertaining antics of his parents and siblings.  I thoroughly recommend  it.	2000-07-17
US	52872993	R1SNVFJ31Q4ZQV	0718100662	344621662	Consider Her Ways	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Brilliant and chilling	This fabulous novella is, in my opinion, John Wyndham's best work.  The possibility of a future such as the one painted here is horrifying, and we find ourselves identifying with the torment of the central character.  Just  when we think it has all worked out, we find a twist in the tale, and the  end is truly chilling.<br />A definite must read.	2000-07-14
US	52872993	RAI5J742SA9ZH	0851153674	357603721	The Normans and the Norman Conquest	Books	4	6	8	N	N	Good coverage of an intersting topic	This is a well written book which looks at an interesting period in English history which is for the most part skimmed over by novellists (where most of us get our history) in favour of later more  &quot;interesting&quot; periods.  It is a great introduction to the topic,  and is a worthy addition to the library of anyone who is interested in the  period.	2000-07-14
US	52872993	R179FBMOMO8TLY	0140481389	907196342	The Crucible (Penguin Plays)	Books	5	0	1	N	N	A modern classic	This is a truly great play, and what is even better - it is an easy to read great play.  I know that it is held up as an allegory for McCarthyism, and that it is studied for that, but as a play it is powerful and emotive  without the symbolism.  The fact that it refers to real events gives it  more of a punch.  It is well written, the characters are wonderful, and all  in all it is a very worthwhile read.	2000-07-11
US	52872993	R3V7AFHI4KZBQE	0404087914	438414782	Admirable Crichton and Other Plays (Works of J. M. Barrie)	Books	5	3	4	N	N	A wonderful and funny play	This is a wonderful play, full of dry and witty characters, and it is also an interesting insight into the lives of the wealthy at the end of the last century.  But also in there is the sociologist's dream - the opportunity to  take a group of people and allow them to find their own roles within a new  society.  We all like adventure tales and stories of deserted islands and  shipwrecks, and this is much better than most.	2000-07-11
US	52872993	RZRGJF8VYRC60	0140266771	828000274	Larry's Party	Books	4	1	1	N	Y	Intersting in a voyeursitic manner	The Larry in question is a man whose entire adult life is studied minutely in this novel, and this is what is fasinating about it.  It has certainly held my attention, even though there is no real adventure or substance in  the plot - it is all about Larry.  Having said this it is certainly an  entertaining book, and the sub plot of his obsession with hedges is  different, but all in all I think Larry is a guy we can all identify with,  and Ms Shields does a very good job of making us care what happens to him.	2000-07-11
US	52872993	R3GKGIJTQMYBVW	0380718774	911494096	Beggars in Spain (Beggars Trilogy)	Books	4	1	3	N	Y	Entertaining light science fiction	This short novel is a clever and entertaining insight into the lives of the &quot;Sleepless&quot; - those genetically altered humans who can get by without sleep.  At this level it is clever science fiction - not too heavy  and cleverly written.  But this is of course something much deeper than  that - it is an interesting study of our fear and resentment of something  that's different, and it is this element that makes the story truly  interesting.  A very worthwhile read.	2000-07-04
US	52872993	R363AHOTU7FUL7	0449205878	823093063	Poland: A Novel	Books	5	9	11	N	N	Michener's finest work	I adore all of James Michener's books, and rate them all highly, but I think that this is his finest work.  It has all the usual grandeur of his other works, but maybe because it is a history of an area about which I  know so little, I find the story utterly mesmerising.<br />There are of course  elements of the story that we are familiar with, such as the horror of war,  but even with the grand historical elements that Mr Michener weaves so well  into his tales, I think it is the characters that hold the narrative  together.  And I think that this novel has the strongest and most  believable characters of all his works.<br />The story and the lineage of the  main characters flow wonderfully, and all in all, it is a very satisfying  book.	2000-05-05
US	52872993	R33WVP2QBMN5ZQ	1568472196	55235730	Art in the Nineteenth Century (Art and Artists)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	An excellent introductory book on an interesting topic	I first bought this book for my daughter because she was fascinated by my art books but flummoxed by the text.  She was enchanted by the book!  It gives an insight into many of the great works of the era - including images  that she has seen portrayed in pop art of this century, as well as in  advertising and other media.<br />If you have a child who is artistic or is  merely interested in the images that make up our world today, this is an  excellent grounding in a complex and colourful topic.	2000-05-04
US	52872993	RHUD5P4I92JKP	0872265439	760120811	In Search of Tutankhamun : The discovery of a king's tomb	Books	3	1	1	N	N	An interesting beginner's book	This is a fine book for an older child who is discovering the joys of archaeology and the most famous find of all.  It is though a little sketchy in its narrative, and considering the great wealth of materials from the  tomb, it could certainly have lots more pictures of the  artefacts.<br />However, it is a fasinating enough topic in itself, and would  keep most younger readers amused for some time - especially young boys who  sometimes scorn fiction.  Here is a real life tale which outshines most  made up stories!	2000-05-04
US	52872993	R40KH6TPVOHWC	0130147060	373133278	History of Art	Books	5	14	16	N	N	A fabulous reference book	If you want a great general book on art in your library, this is the book for you.  It covers all the great eras and great works with beautiful plates, and the accompanying text is detailed enough to satisfy the most  curious reader.  It is particularly valuable for its sections on  sculpture.<br />However, if you are looking for an in depth analysis of an  artist or style, this is not the book for you.  This is not to say that it  skips over the subject matter - this is definitely not the case, but there  is not the detail needed for in depth scholarly analysis.<br />But as a  general reference book on a complex and fascinating topic, it is a gem.  Every household with a half serious library should own a copy.	2000-05-04
US	52872993	R8L5CSDD5Z6O3	0300041055	554080880	The Art of Captain Cook's Voyages: Volume 3, The Voyage of the Resolution and the Discovery, 1776-1780 (The Paul Mellon Centre for Studies in British Art)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Spectacular	This is a wonderful book - of particular interest to Australians of course, to whom Captain Cook is a prominent historical figure, but also to anyone interested in the grand tradition of the master mariners and  adventures on the high seas.<br />Physically it is a beautiful book as well,  with fabulous illustrations and quality paper.  Perhaps not a book for  everyone, but for serious collectors it is a gem.	2000-05-04
US	52872993	R14DS08AW574JO	0609603825	602895896	The Forest	Books	5	16	19	N	N	A true saga in the Michener vein	Mr Rutherford has given us another story rich with delightful characters and vivid scenery.  If you are a fan of James A Michener's books, you will enjoy the rich tapestry that is woven here.  The story line covers an area  within the catchment of his masterpiece &quot;Sarum&quot;, but there is no  duplication, and this book stands alone as a work of art.<br />Also of  interest is the fact that this book looks at great moments in English  history, but almost skirts around them, giving us an insight into what it  must have been like to be common folk, in the midst of great events.  It is  also very entertaining to read.  I recommend it highly.	2000-05-04
US	52872993	R2TLY3Q5P6H9Z	0553274503	571684273	Flowers for Algernon (Bantam Classic)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	A fabulous and original story	This is a poignant and wonderful novella about a man's metamorphisis from retarted worker to genius and his slow and painful transformation back to his original state.  It is a powerful work because it somehow makes us  question how we view people with intellectual disabilities, and ask is  Charly, the main character, any &quot;better off&quot; with his new found  intellect?  It is sad, it is warm and funny, and it beautifully written and  conceived.  It is well worth a read.	2000-05-01
US	52872993	R3K56PDV2B5LDZ	0394513355	445307174	The Stories of Ray Bradbury	Books	5	42	45	N	N	Some of the best short stories in the world!	If there is a master of the short story with a twist, it would have to be Ray Bradbury.  These stories are all magnificent, and there is not one that will disappoint you.  They will sadden you, make you laugh, make you think,  horrify you and please you, but they will NEVER disappoint you.<br />If you  were a fan of the series &quot;The Twilight Zone&quot;, you will love these  stories.  If you like science fiction in general you will love these  stories.  If you are a devotee at literature at its best, you will never  forget these stories. Add this to your collection today!	2000-05-01
US	52872993	R67RFKC1MNZWX	0745128343	385779348	Short Walk from Harrods (Word for word audio books)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	A fascinating and entertaining read	This is a lovely book, a really honest and heartfelt description of a  phase in Dirk Bogarde's life that was both wonderfully happy and crushingly  sad.  It could be a very depressing book, but somehow it reads delightully.  As an aside it is also a lovely insight into the delights of Provence, so  well portrayed by Peter Mayle in his Provence trilogy.  I highly recommend  it.	2000-04-28
US	52872993	RZCA3DTUC7CVY	0399145362	418239112	The Attorney (Paul Madriani, Book 5)	Books	3	5	5	N	N	Disappointing	This is an easy enough read, but I figured out whodunnit almost immediately, and this is never good for a book like this. The court room scenes are entertaining enough, but no better than many other in this  genre.<br />Overall, I was disappointed.	2000-03-30
US	52872993	RS2NQP1Z0SG4K	0380711966	788033522	Tim	Books	5	27	29	N	N	Her finest work	Colleen McCulloch has written many books but I consider this, a very early work, to be her finest.  It is a simple story of unconventional love, beautifully told.  The characters are very strongly drawn, and it is easy  to identify with the feelings of Mary Horton as she comes to grips with her  love for a young man so totally unlike her.  It is a topic which could so  easily have led to a different and tasteless result - instead it is a truly  lovely book.	2000-03-23
US	52872993	R1BPFHD01NANMP	0750917164	10780395	1066 and All That: A memorable history of England	Books	5	0	0	N	N	An extremely silly book!	What is wonderful about this book is that it is extremely silly - I imagine it would appeal strongly to fans of Monty Python - it has very similar humour.  On a more serious side I feel you would need to have more  than a passing knowledge of English history (as it really was) to  appreciate the blistering satire offered here.<br />It is certainly very, very  funny, but I guess you need to know what you're laughing at!	2000-03-23
US	52872993	R169B1FMJB0D64	0684830671	347390268	Shout: The Beatles in Their Generation	Books	5	8	11	N	Y	Fasinating insight into the Beatles	This is an excellent book for both die hard Beatles fans and those who are simply interested in the phenomenon that swept the world in the 60s and still continues to exert influence over modern music today.<br />The author  frankly admits that he has never actually iterviewed any of the Beatles,  but many great historical books have been written without access to their  subjects, and in my opinion this has given him a unique view of the group's  influence on the era, rather than a perspective from inside it.  All the  interesting things are there - Paul meeting John, the American tour, Apple,  break up etc, and fasinating it is.<br />If you like their music or damn them  as madness from the 60s, the fact remains that they were hugely influential  in areas ranging from pop music to advertising, and this book paints the  picture very well.	2000-03-23
US	52872993	R996G3DG9NNKU	0312853238	401439625	Ender's Game (The Ender Quintet)	Books	5	2	2	N	Y	A mesmerising novel	I purchased this book on the strength of reviews on Amazon, and even though science fiction is not my favourite genre, I thoroughly enjoyed this book.  The characters are finely drawn, and the plot is complex and clever.  The ending surprised me, which is always good, and in the end I was  disappointed that there wasn't more.  A great book!	2000-03-17
US	52872993	R1QC1NVMQHIXTZ	034539657X	855932928	Dark Rivers of the Heart	Books	5	0	2	N	N	A complex and enjoyable story	This is by far Dean Koontz' best book.  It has a tear along story line, the obligatory evil people, and the equally important faithful cute dog.  It would make a great movie.  But importantly, in terms of a novel, it  allows you to identify with the characters, and feel that what happens to  them is important.<br />A great rainy Sunday afternoon book!	2000-03-17
US	52872993	RXCM12RSLYM6E	0684193477	967940175	For God, Country and Coca-Cola: The Unauthorized History of the Great American Soft Drink and the Company That Makes It	Books	5	11	11	N	N	Just fabulous	I have long been fascinated by Coca Cola as a product - its world wide marketing and dominance is just mesmerising.  This book takes a good look at this phenomenon and is marvellously entertaining to boot.  The stories  of Coke's determination to get their product to the boys at the front  during the war are brilliant, and others of the war with Pepsi are highly  entertaining.  This is well worth your time.  My husband was most  sceptical, saying that it is just a giant advertisement for a soft drink.  I told him not to be so difficult, and to get me a Coke.	2000-03-17
US	52872993	R1N6H277WNLYWZ	0345438310	169523236	Nicholas and Alexandra: The Classic Account of the Fall of the Romanov Dynasty	Books	5	2	4	N	N	Fasinating glimpse into another world	This is a wonderful book as it allows you a glimpse of another life in another world and at many different levels.  Firstly there is the pomp and ceremony of the great court of Imperialist Russia and all its trappings.  Then there is the fascination that we all feel today for a royal family -  so aloof and apart from us all.  And finally there is the great romance of  Nicholas and Alexandra - as great a love story as any in history.<br />Mr  Massie has done a great job in painting this world of long ago, and it is  written in a style that is both readable and very enjoyable.  It is a great  book, at all levels.	2000-03-17
US	52872993	RKND0B9NIFTY4	0805017305	820817223	Bury My Heart at Wounded Knee: An Indian History of the American West	Books	5	15	16	N	N	Everyone should read this book	I have never before read a book like this.  It is utterly fascinating, a real page turner, and yet it makes you ashamed of something that happened many years before your birth.  Ashamed because you know that similar things  are happening elsewhere in the world, and ashamed becuase we never seem to  learn from our mistakes.<br />On a lighter note this is a meticulous essay on  a life long lost, and country unspoiled and beautiful, and a world we will  never be lucky enough to know.<br />If you only read one book in a year, make  it this one.	2000-03-17
US	52872993	R931V91L9RPPH	0676971776	919236623	Eucalyptus	Books	3	1	4	N	N	Disappointing as a romance, but interesting about trees!	Seduced by the rave reviews and awards that this book has gathered, it was with the anticipation of a great read that I began the story.  I am sorry to report that it is a difficult read and even though I perservered until  the end I am still unsure how our heroine fares.  The interspersing of  information about Australia's great trees is interesting enough, but not  enough for me to rate this book more highly.  I was very disappointed.	2000-03-17
US	52872993	R36JRF7TF1CGCF	006019491X	694565872	Daughter of Fortune: A Novel	Books	3	8	9	N	N	Entertaining enough	&quot;Daughter of Fortune&quot; is an entertaining enough novel, evocative in its pictures of a world long past.  But if you want to read a true Allende masterpiece, try &quot;The House of the Spirits&quot; which is  magnificent.  Maybe she has spoiled me for her other works.	2000-03-16
US	52872993	R2ATY7GU5Z5U5E	0070311277	955540253	The Shock of the New: The Hundred-Year History of Modern Art: Its Rise, Its Dazzling Achievement, It's Fall	Books	5	40	40	N	N	Valuable for the curious and the more experienced	This is a famous art text and justly so.  If you are wondering &quot;just what is this modern art stuff?&quot;, this book will help you.  If you are thinking &quot;I don't know much about art but I know what I like&quot;  this book will surprise you with its magnificent colour plates and images.  Robert Hughes can write reviews for the art glitterati, but he can also  write for the average person with an interest in Modern Art, and very well  he does it too!	2000-03-16
US	52872993	R207X5NU115Q6N	0679426272	572458369	American Visions: The Epic History of Art in America	Books	4	3	5	N	N	Spectacular book a worthy addition to any collection	This is a book well worthy of your attention if you are interested in the wealth of art that the United States has produced.  The images and plates are wonderful, though I feel that the text drags a little and sometimes I  feel that Mr Hughes has lost some of his passion for commentary.  If you  would like a far more informative text about art, and American modern art  in particular, check out his earlier and far better work &quot;The Shock of  the New&quot;.	2000-03-16
US	52872993	R2U4UMHOLOEUC1	0670892963	787771217	Bridget Jones : The Edge of Reason	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Entertaining!	The adventures of Ms Jones continue much as they did in the first book, with her usual trials and tribulations and quests for eternal love.  I consider myself a modern woman, and I laugh at Bridget, but the things  Helen Fielding writes are very easy to identify with.  Do yourself a favour  and read both of her books.  Everyone needs a little laughter in their  lives.	2000-02-29
US	52872993	R2M3QQEZE68GVU	0517189682	444133547	Anne of Green Gables (Children's Classics)	Books	5	40	45	N	N	A Wonderful Book	I have just finished reading this book aloud to my 8 year old (who is well capable of reading it herself) so that we could enjoy the book together.  What can I say?  It is one of the most delightful books in the world, meant  to be shared and cherished, and above all remembered and recommended to  others.  If you have a little girl in your life, introduce her to this  book.  She will always thank you.	1999-11-08
US	52872993	R2YHPF6WA6691B	0684853515	692650386	Hearts In Atlantis	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Diverse and different and ultimately entertaining	This is a great book - there are enough creepy bits for those of us who like Mr King being spooky, and there is also great straight story telling for those of us who like Mr King's short stories (&quot;Rita Hayworth and  the Shawshank Redemption&quot; springs to mind).  The stories all have  common ties, and the ending is marvellous, even poignant.  A thoroughly  entertaining read, and a valued addition to my library.	1999-09-16
US	52872993	R1V770YLHHROK5	0385335121	870989999	Tara Road: Oprah Selection #26	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Magnificent	Like all Maeve Binchy stories, this is a masterpiece, with well developed believable characters and a deeply satisfying story.  However, I find that this story also has a dark under current, which is a little different to  her other books. But as a slice of life in modern Ireland, with characters  you laugh and cry with, it is a fabulous read.  And best of all, this book  also gave me a good friend in another country - all the more reason to  cherish it.	1999-09-10
US	52872993	R160NHIQQJWJA	0439136350	667539744	Harry Potter And The Prisoner Of Azkaban	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Wonderful	This is a wonderful book, a great addition to a great trilogy!  I read these books aloud to my 8 year old, which is a good way for a grown-up to get a look in (Hagrid has a pseudo Scottish accent in our house) and after  the 1st two my husband decided he would sit and read them in order to be in  on the fun with this one.  They are magical books, share them with your  children, and above all read them yourselves!	1999-09-10
US	52872993	R2NTLF2RRLOWLD	0848800842	296232521	Our Hearts Were Young and Gay	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Very funny	This is a genuinely witty and adventurous story of 2 young ladies who travel in the 1920s.  Thankfully the inscription at the front of my copy tells me that &quot;all the events are true and the characters completely  non-fictious&quot;.  Which is just as well, or we would really be  wondering!	1999-09-01
US	52872993	RHZOSZMBW4WQQ	0786884142	713265752	A Monk Swimming A Memoir	Books	2	0	1	N	N	Entertaining enough, but disappointing	Malachy McCourt certainly has a way with words, but I'm afraid his adventrues are not all that riveting, and the few tantalising glimpses that we have into other aspects of his life are not fully developed (for  instance, who is Diana, to whom the book is dedicated with such  love?).<br />&quot;Angela's Ashes&quot;, by big brother Frank, is far  superior.	1999-08-30
US	52872993	RJ0OTSBSRWLSL	0738801526	318910510	The King of Vinland's Saga	Books	5	2	3	N	Y	Intriguing and enthralling	When I first picked up this book, I marvelled at the different stle of writing - it is told as an old Norse saga should be.  After a while, the adventrues of Sigtrygg in his efforts to secure his rights had me  completely enthralled.  Beneath the research and the meticulous attention  to detail there is still the old fashioned &quot;good guys against bad  guys&quot; story that we all know and love.<br />In addition there is the  sweep of drama, the dark forrest, the adventures on the high seas,  beautiful women, clashing swords and all manner of excitement.  It is a  great read, and it also has a most satisfying ending.<br />Well done Stuart,  but what next?	1999-08-18
US	52872993	R17KFH4AR5UBVO	0345377648	791939496	Lasher (Lives of the Mayfair Witches)	Books	1	11	14	N	N	Very disappointing	I love &quot;The Witching Hour&quot; - I think it is one of my all time favourite books.  &quot;Lasher&quot; is, to put it simply, dreadful.  The writing is good, but the characters have lost their way and the story  itself is thin and unsatisfying.  If you liked &quot;The Witching  Hour&quot;, treasure it and don't be tempted further into the lives of the  Mayfair Witches.	1999-08-06
US	52872993	R2YLRXY4QL8BYE	0345404319	177964798	Taltos (Lives of Mayfair Witches)	Books	1	4	4	N	N	Don't bother	I adore &quot;The Witching Hour&quot; and dashed out to buy &quot;Lasher&quot; at the earliest opportunity.  I was horribly disappointed.  But I thought well, maybe Ms Rice would redeem herself with  this one, but alas no.  To put it simply, don't bother.  The first book is  spectacular, the rest a spectacular let down.	1999-08-06
US	52872993	R2AMQM8C60UGXD	068413585X	685952527	Golden Warrior	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Excellent	Hope Muntz has done an amazing job with this novel.  Studentsof history will appreciate it as it is almost (but not quite) likereading from the source documents, and it gives the characters really strong identities without romanticising them the way so many authors are tempted to.  Although it is out of print it is worth seeking a pre-loved copy.  You won't regret it.	1999-08-06
US	52872993	R3TCY3U3DNX4SG	0440145465	84946632	King Rat (Asian Saga)	Books	5	0	1	N	N	A wonderful tale!	This is a magnificent book.  It details the horrors of war and the inhumane conditions POWs were forced to face, but it also is a carefully crafted tale of friendship, and how people can thrive in the most unlikely  places.  I disagree with the reviewer who thinks it is a depressing book -  it is a novel of the human spirit, with a dash of good old capitalism  thrown in for good measure.<br />Again, it is a wonderful book.  It will stay  with you for a long time.	1999-08-06
US	52872993	RAGP60RW66OCB	014028009X	738261988	Bridget Jones's Diary: A Novel	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Very, very witty	This is a most amusing book - and I challenge every woman who reads it to not identify with Bridget in some small way - even if it horrifies you to admit it!  Take this for what it is, an enormously entertaining read!	1999-05-25
US	52872993	R1625JG1RT4YJ3	0590353403	667539744	Harry Potter And The Sorcerer's Stone	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Absolutely enchanting	My 7 year old daughter and I have enjoyed this book, reading a chapter each night before she goes to bed.  It is absolutely delightful, and gives children the opportunity to really become immersed in the finely drawn  characters and their adventures in a way that few children's books achieve.  Do yourself and your children a favour - read it!  Aloud preferably, and  with appropriate accents for the characters.	1999-05-18
US	52872993	R240UGL04L9KL	0224023012	110602034	Heroes	Books	5	12	18	N	N	Fabulous	Mr Pilger is a talented journalist who is able to take everyday people and make them appear much more than ordinary.  This is a series of essays guaranteed to keep your attention and make you want to read more of his  work.	1999-05-10
US	52872993	R9KXMO7QBQA0V	0440178002	191357398	Shogun (Asian Saga)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Magnificent - complex and detailed	If you want to become immersed in a really good book you cannot go past Shogun.  The detail and historical accuracy is amazing, the characters human and indentifiable, and the ending will astound you.  It is hugely  entertaining - I cannot recommend it highly enough.	1999-03-26
US	52872993	R2D3QXKTGKWNT1	044651652X	879659950	The Bridges of Madison County	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Poorly written and a dreadful weepie, but still enjoyable.	I was given this book to read by someone who said I would enjoy it.  Sure, I thought.  But I decided to give it a go.  The 1st half is poor - slow, almost amatuerish, but by the middle I was interested, and by the end I was  in tears.  When asked later if I liked it, I replied, &quot;Oh I always  enjoy a good cry!&quot;.  So take it for what it's worth - it's not a great  book, it might not even be a good book, but it's a lovely story, and  excellent for an evening when you need a good cry!	1999-03-26
US	52872993	ROYSWN91BI0O6	0440145465	84946632	King Rat (Asian Saga)	Books	5	0	1	N	N	The Untimate World War II Novel	If I think of World War II I think of King Rat - a novel of suffering and misery, but also a novel of man's triumph over insurmountable odds, and how life can be good when it really shouldn't be.  It is both graphic and  wittty, poignant and savage, and it leaves you wishing there was more to  the story than you are given.  But then that's war isn't it - many of these  men lived their lives together and then went home to different lives.  It  is a great book - read it.	1999-03-26
US	52872993	R1VDEGJF22A3D4	B00004THO3	879659950	The Bridges of Madison County	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Poorly written and a dreadful weepie, but still enjoyable.	I was given this book to read by someone who said I would enjoyit.  Sure, I thought.  But I decided to give it a go.  The 1st half is poor - slow, almost amatuerish, but by the middle I was interested, and by the end I was in tears.  When asked later if I liked it, I replied, &quot;Oh I always enjoy a good cry!&quot;.  So take it for what it's worth - it's not a great book, it might not even be a good book, but it's a lovely story, and excellent for an evening when you need a good cry!	1999-03-26
US	52872993	R3GWNWRG2TGCMP	0385494149	801233492	Enduring Love: A Novel	Books	2	4	6	N	N	Disappointing	I purchased this book with an air of expectation and indeed it started off very well.  But the menace implied just didn't eventuate, and I must admit I skipped big chunks of the text. Overall I was very disappointed.	1999-03-16
US	52872993	R3A9BDCKZCCCZ3	0804102988	767740511	Sarum: The Novel of England	Books	5	2	2	N	N	A magnificent saga of families through history	This is a sweeping historical saga in the Michener vein, with clearly drawn characters and some of the most beautiful countryside in England.  What makes it particularly interesting is that the story happens around and  along side the great events of history, making the characters and the story  all the more believable.  It was a sensation when published, and rightly  so.  It is wonderful.	1999-03-05
US	52872993	R1M0NJR44HOMH7	0375707972	153296191	The Reader	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Thought provoking and disturbing	This is an interesting book in that it reads as a simple novel of a young man's first sexual experience with an older woman, and yet we all know it is so much more than that.  Like all stories relating to the holocaust it  is disturbing and I found myself thinking of the story long after I  finished reading it.  But I also wanted more - I wanted to know more about  both of the major characters, and what drove them both.  I wanted more of  the history, horrifying and disturbing though it is.  I wanted to identify  with them both because what makes a truly great book is the ability to  absorb the reader into the story.  It is a very good book, but it just  falls short of being a great book.	1999-03-05
US	52872993	R3RZB0JTSELSO0	0446386405	373106638	How to Live with a Neurotic Cat	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Uncannilly accurate and funny	If you own a cat you need this book.  It is a book that makes you laugh out loud, and in addition to this humour it is VERY accurate.  If you have a friend who has a new cat in their lives, send them this book.  They will  always appreciate it.	1999-03-05
US	52872993	R3FC2CU0B83X0C	0789431890	188308302	Atlas of Archaeology: The Definitive Guide to the Location, History and Significance of the World's Most Important Archaeological Sites & Finds	Books	4	14	14	N	N	Good reference book for beginners	As a child I was always going to grow up and become a famous archaeologist (I never made it - I am actually a psychologist).  My young daughter is similarly interested, and this is a great book for someone &quot;starting  out&quot; with an interest in ancient times.  It looks at all of the famous  sites in archaeology, as well as the different eras.  In addition it looks  at themes as recent as the study of the industrial era, showing that  archaeology is not just ancient bones and bits of pottery.  For those who  want more detail it is probably a little sketchy, but for the average  household it is an excellent reference book.	1999-03-04
US	52872993	R3MZI5SRGH6WCB	069101633X	386567423	The Life of Birds	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Absolutely fascinating	The BBC series had me completelely riveted, and the book seemed a logical extension of my fascination.  But it is more than that - it is very readable, and entertaining.  It has magnificent glossy pictures, endearing  anecdotes and explanations, and should have a place in everyone's library.	1999-03-04
US	52872993	R1D4O6KG9W7L86	0316309419	98599958	Philistines at the Hedgerow: Passion and Property in the Hamptons	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Great gossip!	This book of money, money and money in the Hamptons read like one long glorious gossip column!  But I don't mean this as a criticism - we wouldn't be human if we didn't like gossip.  And what is juicier than fame, fortune  and fabulous property?  Add to it some serious eccentricity, and heavy  summer traffic and you have one of the most entertaining reads of the year.	1999-03-04
US	52872993	R1BA0MDWNMIXOW	0553268880	380807670	The Prince of Tides: A Novel	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Simply magnificent	This is a rich and complex novel which pulls you in to the lives of the characters in a way which so few other novels do.  I have read it several times but somehow I have never made it through the last chapter without  tears in my eyes - but they are tears almost of relief and happiness for  the character Tom, who is healed as the book progresses.  It is a beautiful  book, and one you should embrace whole heartedly.	1999-03-03
US	52872993	R2AU785352GS5E	0679731970	964065651	Collected Poems	Books	5	6	13	N	N	An essential addition to any library	Even if you don't like poetry, you will like these rhymes.  They are witty, they are deep, they cover so many aspects of life with their realism and magic.  Everyone needs a book of poetry - why not have this one?  You  won't go wrong.	1999-03-03
US	52872993	RTEM3Q1RQDAPN	0451171357	85902037	The Agony and the Ecstasy: A Biographical Novel of Michelangelo	Books	5	1	2	N	N	A Fascinating study of obsession and desire	This book about Michaelangelo is in reality a study of what drives a great artist - obsession, desire, hunger, and in his case, family loyalty.  It is a magnificent book, a true achievement, but I would caution anyone who  reads it to have a glossy book of the actual works on hand for reference.  Nothing more frustrating than not knowing what they all look like!  At the  end of the novel Michaelangelo, David, the Pieta and the Sistine are like  friends, and you will be all the richer for it.	1999-03-03
US	52872993	R2ZK99WUE0OJ52	1568492995	825028477	A Spaniard in the Works	Books	5	19	20	N	N	A taste of humour from a musical genuis	John Lennon was undoubtedly a very complex man, and he had a marvellous sense of humour.  The spoonerisms in some tales are magnificent - some stories are real laugh out loud material.  But there is still a streak of  the dark and brooding Lennon, which occasionally cuts into the comic  genius, and makes you look at him in a different way.  This is a valuable  book for anyone who seeks to understand one of the great musical influences  of our time, and also one if you're looking for a good giggle!	1999-03-02
US	52872993	R2EW73116WE9C	0679776451	366389334	A Fine Balance	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Simply Magnificent!!!	How to praise this book?  It is horrific, funny, depressing, uplifting, beautiful and shocking.  It is readable without the cloying prose that has stilted many other books on India, and leaves the reader with a kinship and  understanding of the characters that makes a novel truly remarkable.  Please read this book, it will make you look at your own life in an  entirely different way, and give you and understanding of another part of  the world that you may never otherwise gain.	1999-03-02
US	52872993	R2WQSXG6CJTCY1	0374516812	9117281	The Lottery and Other Stories	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Tantalising	I first read &quot;The Lottery&quot; in high school and it has stuck with me ever since.  The title story is by far the best in this volume, but leave it till last, as the anticipation of its ultimate arrival whilst  reading the other stories was fabulous.  As for the famous title story, you  will never forget it - it is the ultimate short story, compact, deceivingly  friendly and ultimately shocking.  Enjoy!	1999-03-02
US	52872993	R2MYEU5DH34U4Q	0060977493	521720988	The God of Small Things	Books	2	2	2	N	N	Disjointed - and ultimately disappointing	You may be curious to read this award winner which has sold so well.  But it is mostly all hype, and ultimately it is a difficult to read, disjointed novel.  For anyone who is interested in India, Rohinton Mistry's &quot;A  Fine Balance&quot; is a far superior novel, also an award winner, but  delightfully readable.	1999-02-26
US	52872993	R2DU2U8DMWRGZC	0345337662	494921316	Interview with the Vampire	Books	1	6	13	N	N	Very disappointing	I adore Miss Rice's &quot;The Witching Hour&quot; and so curled up for what I thought would be an equally good read. What a disappointment.  The writing is quite banal, and unlike some of her other writings you never get  the opportunity to know the characters in any depth.  I was so disappointed  that I didn't finish the book, which is rare for me.	1999-01-11
US	52872993	R26Y3N1PU993E9	0802713394	214668017	Zarafa: A Giraffe's True Story, from Deep in Africa to the Heart of Paris	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Delightful	This is a surprising little book that tells you so much more than the adventures of a giraffe on her way to post-revolutionary France.  Anyone interested in Eqyptology or the Ottoman Empire will also be surprised by  the little tit-bits of information that drift by in the story telling. One  of the delights of this season	1999-01-11
US	52872993	RF93H7WKH0VQL	0440442508	184996617	Johnny Tremain	Books	5	1	1	N	N	A wonderful book	I read this book as a 10 year old growing up in Australia, and who knew nothing of American history. It was in a nut-shell, absolutely wonderful, and was one of the many books that really made an imapct in my formative  years.  I have a copy now, and will introduce my daughter to it at a  similar age. If you have children who find the history of their nation  dull, this book will change all of that.	1998-12-04
US	52872993	R42EYOM3GLE1I	0345311809	384709649	Shibumi	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Compelling	This is a magnificent book which is probably not as widely known as it  deserves to be.  The characterisations are strong and realistic, the plot  tight and gripping, and I will never look at Volvos the same way again.   One of my all-time favourites!	1998-10-22
US	52872993	R25M1PCNE6HJVE	0385333951	870989999	Tara Road	Books	5	0	1	N	N	Wonderful and also darkly thought provoking	I admire all of Maeve's books and this was eagerly anticipated. The story  is true to her usual form, with delightful characters that we can all  identify with, but there was something almost disturbing about this story  line that had me thinking long after I finished it.  It is a delightful and  very enjoyable book, with a dark undercurrent that reflects the different  things we all juggle and deal with in modern life.  I highly recommend it	1998-10-20
US	52872993	R17WEI7BJU13A4	0345361792	438809520	A Prayer for Owen Meany	Books	5	0	0	N	Y	Yes, the 5 star reviews are all true!!!!	I bought this book from Amazon.com on the strength of the reviews.  To sum  up, they are all true.  This is a moving, funny, sad, complex and  ultimately entertaining book.  Read it and laugh and read it and weep.  But  you must read it.	1998-09-01
US	52872993	R2OLTD97FU0ZS8	155970375X	231481016	The Secret Diary of Anne Boleyn	Books	2	5	5	N	N	Disappointing	I am a great fan of this period of history and a great admirer of Anne,  but this book does not live up to it's promise.  It is a fair enough read,  but towards the end I found the endless angst a little grinding.  I also  found the ending and the way it attempts to relate to Elizabeth's reign  quite unconvincing.	1998-08-23
US	52872993	R3T4EONL2SAVXA	0745173829	69546549	Captain Corelli's Mandolin	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Wonderful, warm, witty and sad	This novel has it all - great characters, the folly of war, humour, sadness and a pine marten!  It is also about a very sad time that I (a fanatic history buff) knew so little about - the Italian occupation of the Greek Islands in World War Two.  Take some time to lock yourself away for an all in one read - it is well worth the effort.	1998-05-20
US	52872993	RY5C02DR7EJAP	0394587863	470794658	The Witching Hour	Books	5	0	0	N	N	In My Top 10 Favourite Books!!!	This is a fabulous rich and detailed novel, which keeps you guessing with its intricate family details and horrors.  I especially like the way the stories of the past witches are told through the records of the Talamasca.  I am not fond of the folllow up novels, and feel this can stand alone, but I urge anyone who loves reading to take this novel and lock themselves away somewhere quiet for a while!	1998-05-19
US	52872993	R3MW3IRHKZ7GOS	0449911519	207158162	The Secret History	Books	5	0	0	N	N	In a word .... fabulous	For a first time novellist, Donna has it down pat.  This was referred to me by a friend, and as a compulsive devourer of books I took it with good grace.  I read it while holidaying in South East Asia and loved every bit, as did my husband.  You will not be disappointed	1998-05-19
