US	52871710	R2ZJZTH7CCA4QG	0821772120	513621096	Every Waking Moment	Books	2	4	5	N	N	Very disappointing from a good author	... That's the only way to explain how I feel after finishing Meryl Sawyer's latest romantic suspense novel. I've enjoyed many of her books in the past, especially Unforgettable, and was looking forward to this one. I was disappointed.<br />This soap opera of a romantic thriller is set in South Beach, FL, which is something the reader can never forget for a moment since Ms. Sawyer uses the local term for the area - \\"SoBe\\" - on almost every page. It is unnecessary, ultimately annoying, and it is attention to those kinds details at the expense of characterization that sink Every Waking Moment for me.<br />The plot. How to describe the plot? There is a family-owned company that the family members want to sell, but can't because they're having security issues they need to solve first. The matriarch of the family is dying of cancer and desperately wants to locate the daughter she gave up for adoption before she dies. The daughter she didn't give up, Taylor, is the heroine, and she's reeling from a series of \\"personal misfortunes\\" (as described on the back of the book), including the years-ago disappearance of her lover, who is referred to as Paul Ashford and Paul Ashton at various times in the novel. There's an uncle who married a really smart ex-stripper as a trophy wife then fell in love with her and is too afraid to tell her that they need to cut back on spending because they're up to their eyes in debt and won't recoup it until they can sell the company. Then there's Taylor's brother, who was married to Taylor's best friend until he decided he was gay and took up with a drug-addicted player who wants in on the family company. Oh, then there's the de facto hero, who is a security guy who happens to know who Taylor is because he once met the long-lost Paul many years ago in Colombia and he never forgot her face. And then there's best friend Lisa who is so close to Taylor that she disappeared for a year, came back to SoBe and never told her best friend until she'd beenback for a month. Oh, but she was grieving from being dumped by Taylor's brother, so it's all OK, right? She's going to open a wildly successful sexy lingerie and sex toy shop because, hey, why not?! This is SoBe, after all.<br />Ay yi yi. What a mess. It's a shame too, because some of the characters show promise. Shane, the de facto hero, is actually a good one, and he deserves better than dishwater dull Taylor. Brianna the ex-stripper and Uncle Doyle have the most interesting relationship, and Brianna is actually a very interesting character. She has layers, and shows them to the reader without the reader having to be told about them. <br />That's the biggest problem with this book, actually. It's a classic example of the author telling the reader everything without showing them anything in particular. We get pages and pages of exposition, way too much foreshadowing, too much ANGST in general....	2003-01-08
US	52871710	R1ED18EK9IT2PR	0451410157	501769629	Sweet Nothings	Books	3	9	13	N	N	Formulaic characters but a good read	This is a tough book to rate because I'm so ambivalent about it. On one hand, I enjoyed reading it. On the other, I'm annoyed because I feel like I've been manipulated by utterly formulaic characters. I really want to give it 3 1/2 stars.<br />I'm a relatively new Catherine Anderson reader, but it hasn't taken me long to catch on to the formula at work. With some admittedly important plot variations from its series predecessors Baby Love and Phantom Waltz, Sweet Nothings chronicles the story of a down-on-her-luck desperate woman who needs a hero to rescue her, give her time and space, and show her she's worth loving. <br />There is nothing inherently wrong with this concept; it's a tried and true romance theme. Ms. Anderson weaves it like a pro so it works. You're under the spell...unless you read all three of the books in a row like I did and begin to realize that the characters are so cookie-cutter they can almost be interchanged in places. It's disconcerting, and disappointing, because her writing is good enough that Ms. Anderson shouldn't have to reuse the same character types over and over.<br />Let me summarize: the hero is a gorgeous cowboy, mostly rich (though he may be temporarily down-and-out), principled, charming, and grows deeply in love with the damsel in distress who has fallen into his lap. He is patient and kind and loyal and alpha (but only when it's attractive). Are you getting the picture? He's mostly, just about, damn, perfect. <br />The heroine is petite (though not necessarily thin), pretty (but not beautiful except to the hero), emotionally battered and scarred, has little or no self-esteem, is desperate for a refuge, feels confused, out of options and is unsure why the hero (or anyone) would profess to love her. She usually is dependent on the hero for work, food and support while she sorts through her miserably few options.<br />Are you with me so far? *sigh* Every romance formula convention you can imagine comes into play here. The weird thing is, it really works for awhile. Ms. Anderson is a good writer; the settings are clearly described, and the dialogue rings true between the characters. No matter how trite the situation, the characters are interesting enough to keep you reading, at least the first time around. They're far less enthralling the third time.<br />If you've never read a book by Ms. Anderson, then you may want to try one of the three books I've mentioned - I think Sweet Nothings was my favorite though there's little difference between them. Just be warned that once you've read the first, you barely need to read the other two.	2002-03-10
US	52871710	R158LDB05VYK7P	0380813165	416358899	A Great Catch	Books	5	2	3	N	N	I'm hooked on Ms. Jerott!!	A friend turned me on to Michelle Jerott recently and boy, am I grateful! In the same contemporary romance vein as the author's also terrific All Night Long, A Great Catch is simply a great romance novel about the growing/changing relationship between two adults with history, and personal baggage to deal with. Quite simply, THIS is the kind of book that makes me read romance. These are the kinds of relationships I want to read about, the kinds of people I care about, and root for. <br />Luke and Tessa are terrific, well-developed imperfect characters - gasp, they're humans! I've seen some reviews comment negatively about Luke's persistence in pursuing Tessa and suggest that it smacks of sexual harassment since he is her boss. I would like to humbly suggest that those reviewers reread this book, because I think they missed the point. To me, these two characters were very clear about wanting each other, and about wanting to fight the attraction. When Tessa rejects Luke, it's not because she really doesn't want him. It's because she doesn't WANT to want him. There's a huge chasm in my mind between this type of tension-building relationship tango and sexual harassment. <br />Because of the \\"will they-won't they\\" dance going on, the sexual tension in this book is HOT. Actually, so is the sex once they get around to having it. The buildup of tension and earthy, honest quality of the exchanges reminded me of Susan Andersen, which I mean as a compliment. <br />I can't remember the last time I enjoyed reading a contemporary romance more than A Great Catch, unless it was when I read Ms. Jerott's All Night Long. I'm looking forward to catching up with Absolute Trouble.<br />I hope Ms. Jerott's publishing woes with Avon don't continue because she is an author to watch who deserves a devoted following, and a spot on keeper shelves everywhere. And Avon, PLEASE kill the horrible covers which have no resemblance to the actual characters! What are you thinking?!	2002-03-10
US	52871710	R36GUYWNAB2278	0449006034	952157915	Almost Perfect (McCloud Brothers)	Books	4	12	12	N	N	An anti-heroine to root for and a hero who's worth the risk	Almost Perfect is a story which steps on a lot of taboos and twists some conventions into pretzels. I'm a supporter of all trailblazing, whether it's 100% successful or not, so I really liked this book. <br />This book picks up where Ms. Rice's Impossible Dreams left off (I recommend reading them in order, but it's not necessary), with a heroine who is possibly the least heroic character you could imagine. At least, so it seems. <br />Cleo Alyssum is a reclusive recovering addict who has lost her son's custody because of her past history and is struggling to rebuild her life so she can be worthy of having him with her again. She has zero interest in men, little interest in most people at all, and really just wants to be left alone to renovate her isolated house on the South Carolina coast. This is an anti-romance heroine for the ages and I liked her a lot, even when she did a couple really stupid things (they're in character, so I forgive her). <br />Enter the hero, Jared McCloud, who is a down-on-his-luck cartoonist with a history of swimming in shallow emotional waters and running when the water starts to get deep. At first he just wants to rent Cleo's beach house. Then he really wants Cleo too, who wants absolutely nothing to do with him. General conflict and mayhem ensue, including a hurricane.<br />Despite having a cartoonist for a hero, this is not an airy, light book. There are many funny scenes and moments, but this novel deals with some major issues, and for the most part handles them sensitively and honestly. To me, Cleo is a fascinating character of great depth, and Jared surpassed my expectations by turning into a man worthy of her trust. I found the emotional journey these two took - along with the two abused/neglected teenagers they take under their wings - to be affecting and real. <br />I've read several of Ms. Rice's previous novels, and Almost Perfect is my new favorite work by her. As Cleo and Jared learn, the risks in becoming emotionally involved with each other (and others) are great, but so are the rewards. It a lesson we can all stand to think about now and then.	2002-03-10
US	52871710	R2C784QBLI2W5Y	0440222591	723801793	Pale Moon Rider	Books	5	15	16	N	N	Simply great	I'm a recent convert to Marsha Canham's work and I  love her style. Epic in scope and meticulous in detail, her well-written historical novels are an invitation to another world for a few hours, and I've enjoyed every trip I've taken with her.<br />Pale Moon Rider is no exception to that rule. It's a swashbuckling tale of a resourceful beauty in distress and a reluctant highwayman hero drawn against his will into a scheme to save her from a truly unpleasant fate. <br />If you haven't read any Marsha Canham before, you're in for a treat with Pale Moon Rider. If you have read her other works, then smile, because you've got another great one to look forward to!	2002-02-11
US	52871710	RIRTQ7ZYCGFTU	055358393X	564758928	River of Eden	Books	5	21	21	N	N	What a great surprise!	I've read Ms. McReynolds' past work, which was a really good fantasy/romance trilogy, so I was surprised to see that River of Eden is a contemporary. I almost didn't pick it up, but I'm so glad I did! <br />This is a &quot;go up the river into the jungle and accomplish a great feat against all odds&quot; story. There are riverboat chases, and multiple levels of bad-buys double-crossing our intrepid hero/heroine (and each other). It's FUN, but it has a serious underlying theme of mysticism and redemption that is fascinating and different. <br />Most of all, River of Eden is a love story on many different levels. It's about self-love, consuming love of a place, and oh yeah, a believable love between two really interesting people, Will and Annie.<br />Will and Annie are great characters. Each of them is running from something, and running toward something else in the desperate hope that their destination will be enough to absolve them of past crimes, real and imagined. <br />This is no light wise-cracking duo - these two are carrying some major baggage, some of it metaphysical/mystical in nature. Sometimes backstory like that can drag a romance down fast, but in River of Eden the hero and heroine are well-matched in their derring-do and their emotional wariness, so it's rewarding to watch them deal with each other and eventually, slowly, give in to their attraction for each other.  I really enjoyed both of them individually and as a pair.<br />The setting of this book takes on a life of its own, and the lush, lyrical quality of the narrative makes you feel like you can feel the rain and see the vegetation. It's almost a visual novel in its depth and feel. This is something River of Eden has in common with McReynolds' previous books, though the setting  was very different in the fantasy trilogy. <br />I thoroughly enjoyed River of Eden and think you will too if you liked Romancing the Stone (the movie) or Heart of Fire by Linda Howard (the novel). Check it out. I don'tthink you'll be sorry.	2002-02-11
US	52871710	R1UVUKMBV5PEMC	0786013117	267462996	Candle Bay	Books	3	9	11	N	N	Not what I hoped it would be	Some of the reviews of Candle Bay I read compared it to work by Laurell K Hamilton. I agree that Thorne was influenced by Hamilton's style, and employs some similar horror/sex shock techniques. But Candle Bay reminded me more of some Ann Rice vampire tales. That's not necessarily a good thing.<br />I enjoyed Candle Bay overall and I think the plot is entertaining, if a bit convoluted at times (Julian is running so many schemes it's a bit amazing he can keep them all straight!). The main vampire characters - Julian and the Darling family vamps - are well-explained, well-defined and interesting throughout. The twins got on my nerves but I think they were supposed to. <br />Amanda -- the MAIN human character and unknowing catalyst for the brewing vampire war  -- is the main thing about Candle Bay that really disappointed me. Amanda is a very thinly-based character; you have very little interaction with her beyong her reacting to the other characters (and Candle Bay itself). I never had a strong sense of who she was, or where she came from. There was nothing that convinced me she was special enough, interesting enough or dazzling enough for two vampires (and two generations of vamps!) to fight over. Anita Blake she is not.<br />The book ends with a cliffhanger, so I assume we will see more of the Darling clan and their potential new vamp member, Amanda. I hope she's a more interesting vampire than she was human in Candle Bay.	2002-01-25
US	52871710	RLFB9GWP9I6SD	055358264X	77681626	Dream Country	Books	3	10	11	N	N	Intense and Emotional	I liked Dream Country. It's a pretty intense and emotional rollercoaster ride that hinges on some fairly unique plot points and takes some interesting side roads along the way. For that alone, I give Ms. Rice credit. I've read lots of books, and this particular plot is a new one to me.<br />It isn' t the best book I've ever read, and I enjoyed Firefly Beach (the other Luanne Rice novel I've read) more, but there was something almost hypnotic about the way this story unfolded that kept me riveted right from the beginning.<br />The main characters in this novel are very well developed, and the constantly changing POV is interesting, if a little over-used. I agree with some other reviewers that said the mystery wasn't much of a mystery, but I think that was the point. I think we were supposed to figure it out before the characters did and wait with bated breath to see how it would unfold. I certainly did.<br />I was a little disappointed with the ending, which felt rushed and didn't do justice to the well-drawn characters we'd spent so much time getting to know. I was rooting for Daisy and James, and for Sage and David, so it was a bummer to not see more of them together in the end. <br />If you're in the market for a dense, well-written novel that has an &quot;epic&quot; feel to it, then give this a try. If  you're looking for something light to pass the hours, this will not suit.	2002-01-15
US	52871710	R2O5TZZXB42XKS	0553583557	905022111	Lord of a Thousand Nights (Medievals)	Books	4	22	23	N	N	Not my favorite Hunter, but still a really good book	Madeline Hunter is a terrific writer of historical romance. IMHO, she has written some of the most exciting and different medieval romances to be released in the past few years. She has set herself a tough standard though, and for me Lord of a Thousand Nights doesn't quite match the quality of her others. <br />Don't get me wrong, this doesn't mean it's not a really good book...it is. It's just a little more conventional, and a little less intriguing than her last efforts. I didn't learn as much from this novel, which may sound like a strange comment if you haven't read a book by Ms. Hunter before. One of the more fascinating qualities about Hunter's By... series and The Protector is that they look at the medieval world from slightly different angles than the &quot;typical&quot; medieval romance. Whether the hero was a merchant or stonemason instead of a knight/lord, or the heroine was a potter or a serf instead of a lady, the characters in the previous novels were different, and the settings unique. <br />In comparison, Lord of a Thousand Nights doesn't give you enough of that. The heroine (Reyna) is a widowed lady and the hero (Ian) is the less-than-honorable head of a mercenary company hired by Morvan Fitzwaryn (hero of The Protector) to seige and hold the tower in which Reyna lives. That Ian succeeds in his task and Reyna is then dependent upon him for her safety is a given, and it's a plot device that works. It's tried and true. That's the problem with Lord of a Thousand Nights - it plays by the expected medieval rules and that's disappointing from an author who was so exciting because she was rewriting the standard.<br />The characters are good: Reyna and (Ian also recurring from The Protector) are engaging and well-drawn; and they're a good match for each other. Reyna is feisty without being too stupid to live (TSTL in romance reader shorthand), and Ian is an alpha warrior who isn't afraid to think outside the box. That quality includes his dealings with Reyna, and his invention of devices to make his work easier. That plot element was fun, and gave Ian more depth than your usual &quot;me-alpha-knight&quot; character. I liked the h/h byplay, and I liked seeing them both interact with characters from Ms. Hunter's previous books. <br />I really don't like the title of this book, which puts so much emphasis on Ian(it's his nickname, which just seems so silly), because to me this story is really more about Reyna and her history/land than it is about Ian. But hey, that's my opinion. <br />Overall, Lord of a Thousand Nights is a well-written, historically detailed medieval romance with characters you will enjoy getting to know and a plot that is interesting if not entirely unique. If it were written by anyone but Madeline Hunter, I would probably have given it 5 stars. Unfortunately it just doesn't live up to the standard she's set for herself, so it gets 4. But do yourself a favor, and check out anything by this talented author. You really can't go wrong.	2002-01-05
US	52871710	R2WKI6ARL9N5U1	0670894710	1013337	Bitten (Otherworld)	Books	5	86	94	N	N	Terrific debut  novel!	Bitten is a terrific debut novel, and a great werewolf tale that sucks you in and keeps your attention. I'm a fan of Laurell K Hamilton, but Bitten gave me a new appreciation for the limitations of the lycanthrope portrayals in the Anita Blake series. Perhaps it's to be expected, since so many creatures and monsters exist in Anita's world, no one group can be fully developed and explored. One of my difficulties with Anita's tales is that it's hard to focus sometimes. She careens from one problem to the next so quickly you barely have time to assimilate the differences between the monstrous groups she's dealing with. <br />That problem doesn't exist in Bitten. To the contrary, Bitten is so focused on the werewolves, and on one small group of them in particular, you are able to get much more involved with them, their lives, their struggles. One of the things I really enjoyed about Bitten was Ms. Armstrong's attention to detail, including emotional detail. All of the characters rang true to me in their reactions and dealings with each other.<br />Elena is a wonderful character. She's not always likable, but she's real. She is a reluctant werewolf who just longs to be human, and her uncertainty and anger at her situation are palpable. It's a miracle she functions as well as she does in the human world, though we actually see her less there than you realize at first. Despite her longing to be human, she revels in her wolf characteristics and is continually troubled by the duality of her nature. She tries to delude herself, but she's rarely successful and I respected that even when I didn't particularly like her actions at times. <br />I appreciated the nature of the relationship between her and Clayton, the werewolf who bit her and still wants her, despite Elena's continued resentment toward him. Their bond is fascinating and multi-faceted -- in many ways they are reflections of each other. I was happy with the initial resolution of their conflict and hope to see more ofthem. Likewise, the relationships between Elena and Jeremy, and Clayton and Jeremy are well-drawn and fully realized. Antonio and Nick suffer a bit by comparison, but their roles are lesser, so it's not a fatal flaw. Philip was weak too, but I suppose he had to be.<br />I was very pleasantly surprised by Bitten and hope that it is the first of a series which will expand on the well-crafted themes and give us new insights into the absorbing characters. Great job, Ms. Armstrong!	2002-01-02
US	52871710	R3P4X44DK7G0O1	0843949333	365134060	The Marriage Bed (Leisure historical romance)	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Excellent medieval romance with a twist	I have been a romance fan for years, with a special interest in medievals. I've experienced the typical plot devices and the &quot;Norman cur/Saxon wench&quot; themes which can be lots of fun, but don't necessarily stand up to the test of time. With The Holding, and now The Marriage Bed, Claudia Dain has created a new take on the medieval romance which intrigued and satisfied even this jaded reader.<br />Religion was a major part of life in the medieval world, yet perhaps because of the very nature of romance, it is often ignored or given only a small role to play in even well-done novels. Ms. Dain has thrown that convention on its head and given us in Richard a hero who has devoted himself to God's service and is most reluctant to give it up for marriage even to Isabel, the most winsome and lovesick (for Richard) of women. The conflict between the hero and heroine is unique in my experience -- the heroine wants the marriage and all that comes with it, including love, companionship, and yes, sex. The hero wants to do his duty and somehow figure out a way to get back to the abbey where he feels he belongs in order to atone for a long ago sin.<br />The struggle between them is real, and intense, and at times very amusing. Their evolution as characters and as a couple is absorbing and believable - neither starts out or ends as a perfect being. They are flawed and yet striving to be more. Their supporting cast is excellent as well, and I liked the reappearance of the men from The Holding too.<br />Some of the plot devices are a bit trite, and I could see certain things coming way too far in advance, but I didn't  mark down the score because I'm so thrilled to see a new author in this sub-genre who takes some chances with the conventional  character types. Thank you, Ms. Dain and keep them coming!!	2001-12-21
US	52871710	RJQS5NVC5L973	0843949333	365134060	The Marriage Bed (Leisure historical romance)	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Excellent medieval romance with a twist	I have been a romance fan for years, with a special interest in medievals. I've experienced the typical plot devices and the &quot;Norman cur/Saxon wench&quot; themes which can be lots of fun, but don't necessarily stand up to the test of time. With The Holding, and now The Marriage Bed, Claudia Dain has created a new take on the medieval romance which intrigued and satisfied even this jaded reader.<br />Religion was a major part of life in the medieval world, yet perhaps because of the very nature of romance, it is often ignored or given only a small role to play in even well-done novels. Ms. Dain has thrown that convention on its head and given us in Richard a hero who has devoted himself to God's service and is most reluctant to give it up for marriage even to Isabel, the most winsome and lovesick (for Richard) of women. The conflict between the hero and heroine is unique in my experience -- the heroine wants the marriage and all that comes with it, including love, companionship, and yes, sex. The hero wants to do his duty and somehow figure out a way to get back to the abbey where he feels he belongs in order to atone for a long ago sin.<br />The struggle between them is real, and intense, and at times very amusing. Their evolution as characters and as a couple is absorbing and believable - neither starts out or ends as a perfect being. They are flawed and yet striving to be more. Their supporting cast is excellent as well, and I liked the reappearance of the men from The Holding too.<br />Some of the plot devices are a bit trite, and I could see certain things coming way too far in advance, but I didn't  mark down the score because I'm so thrilled to see a new author in this sub-genre who takes some chances with the conventional  character types. Thank you, Ms. Dain and keep them coming!!	2001-12-21
US	52871710	R2845LB2081BKN	0821768220	292501489	Obsessed	Books	3	22	25	N	N	Good, but not Susan's Best	I'm a longtime romance fan who has learned over the years to be wary of rereleases because they usually can't live up to the author's newest work and you wind up being disappointed. I think that's the case with Obsessed, which is a good book, and is worth checking out, but will disappoint you if you're looking for the quality/level of Susan Andersen's latest works. <br />I'm a Susan Andersen fan, and Obsessed contains all the elements that make her writing so much fun for me: hot cranky hero, smart, &quot;sassy&quot; heroine, great banter and dialogue between all the characters (not just the heroine/hero), and HOT sex scenes. The emotional baggage the characters carry is well drawn and the suspense is creepy enough to live with you after the book is finished and sitting on the bookshelf again. The rapist theme itself is handled sensitively.<br />The main problem I had with Obsessed is that it feels like a retread of some of Ms. Andersen's other books. In actuality, since this one was published first, the opposite is probably true. This book doesn't feel as well developed or as cohesive as Exposure or Baby, I'm Yours, but has a lot of the same plot/character devices. It is very similar to Present Danger in feel, an Andersen rerelease that I think was a better book overall.<br />If you're an Andersen fan already, then you'll want to read Obsessed to keep your collection complete, and it's worth it as long as you don't expect too much. If you haven't read anything by Ms. Andersen yet but want to try this one, just be forewarned that it isn't her best. Any of the others I've mentioned in this review are better bets to start out.	2001-12-10
US	52871710	R24KEN4XZHA443	0399148248	358896248	Midnight Bayou	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Up with the best of Nora's past work	I've been a Nora Roberts fan for decades, and I've realized over time that I don't hold her to the same standard I do most other authors. I judge Nora's books by how they stack up against my favorite Nora classics, not how they stack up against anyone else's work. And perhaps logically, as time has worn on, I'll admit that while I enjoy every one of her books, it has become harder for Nora to thrill and surprise me as much as she used to.<br />This all contributes to my delighted surprise with Midnight Bayou, which has rocketed itself to the top of my &quot;Favorite All Time Nora&quot; shelf. I was riveted to the pages and couldn't get to sleep afterward because I kept wondering if I maybe felt a &quot;presence&quot; in my own house...!! hint- don't start reading this book late at night thinking you can read a little, then put it down and pick it up again in the morning. It doesn't lend itself to that - you're more likely to stumble into work the next morning with an all-night-reading hangover!<br />As other reviewers have noted, I really enjoyed the hero providing the main character perspective and pivotal role. This is something Nora does fairly often in her category romances, and it worked well in Midnight Bayou. Of course it helps that Declan Fitzgerald is such a great character. Yes, he has some of the classic &quot;formulaic&quot; romance hero traits (rich, good-looking, etc) I've seen some negative comments about in reviews, but what makes Declan work for me are his layers. This is not a one-dimensional character the way the bad romance heros are. He's not perfect/alpha or saving the day (except for himself). Like so many of us, he's conflicted in some ways, and bullheadedly sure of himself in others. He has come to Manet Hall to start a new life, but first he has to deal with the tragic remnants of many lives before him, and their possible connections to his own present relationships. This is big stuff for anyone, and he handles it with appealing boyishness,dedication, humor and nerve. What I want to know is where I find a guy like him for myself?! I don't even care about the looks and the money! Give me the kindness and the humor and the dreamy determination. This is a man worth having.<br />Nora gives Declan a woman to love in Angelina (Lena) Simone and I liked her. Again, I've seen some reviews talk about Lena as a selfish b--ch, but I didn't get that feeling from her at all. She's been badly hurt in the past by relationships, and not by a man, but by her mother (a greater betrayal and more scarring as presented here). She doesn't trust and she depends on herself almost to the exclusion of others. She sees Declan as simply too good to be true, and therefore not worth the risk. Her struggle to accept his feelings for her and hers for him was believable to me, and endearing. She's not a typical romance heroine (if there is such a thing anymore), and I liked that too.<br />I thoroughly enjoyed the plot itself, with its woven storylines of past and present, and elements of paranormal activity, which I thought was very well done. I cared about both levels of story, and wanted justice/forgiveness in the present for the tragic victims of the past, even as I couldn't quite figure out how that would happen. <br />I agree with some of the reviews I've seen that mentioned the ending not quite living up to the rest of the book. I was surprised by its brevity, given the wonderful depth and narrative lushness of the story itself. I was a little disappointed, and would've liked an epilogue or something to flesh out the HEA more. But it's kind of like eating a big ice cream sundae and then saying just as you finish, but wait, it didn't have enough nuts on top...it didn't detract from my enjoyment of the whole. It speaks to the success of the characters and the story that we all wanted to see more of them, doesn't it?<br />If you've been a fan of Nora's who has been wishing she would try something a little different, then I think you'll like Midnight Bayou a lot. If you like her books just the way they are, you will like it, but may be surprised because she does some different things. If you've never read Nora before, oh boy, do you have lots of great stuff ahead of you! ENJOY!! I sure did and expect to again many times in the future.	2001-12-01
US	52871710	R33BRIWZULFZ6Q	0553561618	806983409	Dark Paradise: A Novel	Books	5	41	43	N	N	CLASSIC ROMANTIC SUSPENSE	I've been a fan of Tami Hoag's since her Loveswept romance days, and have read nearly everything she has written. Still Waters (a personal favorite of mine) was Ms. Hoag's first foray into romantic suspense. Dark Paradise followed, and with each successive novel, she stepped further away from romance and further into the pschological thrillers she is most known for today. This is important to know if you're considering buying a book by Tami Hoag for the first time. It's easy to be disappointed by making a book selection that isn't your cup of tea, b/c she has written the gamut.<br />Dark Paradise is primarily a romance with elements of suspense and a mystery at the heart of it. It is, in my opinion, a terrific book. I have recommended it to friends who read romance, mysteries and horror -- all have liked it without exception. <br />Marilee, the heroine has arrived in Montana to visit a friend on vacation and take stock of her life. She arrives to find the friend dead, under mysterious circumstances that no one besides her seems to care about. This is the mystery: who really killed Lucy and was it truly an accident? Marilee is a great heroine, smart and plucky and creative without being the slightest bit perfect. You can imagine knowing someone just like her. Her run-ins with the reluctant rancher hero JD (who knew Lucy and doesn't care what happened to her as long as it doesn't affect his ranch or way of life) are classic romance-type exchanges, but they're never pat. That's one hallmark of Ms. Hoag's, no matter what genre she's writing for - the characters rarely take the easy way out. They're too real for that. <br />If you enjoy Ms. Hoag's more edgy and psychological-horror books (ie. Ashes to Ashes), then you may still enjoy Dark Paradise as a precursor, stylistically. If you were a fan of books like Magic and Sarah's Sin, this one will take you down a darker path moving away from romance. <br />I highly recommend this book to most anyone who asks me. It's one of my all-time favorites. Give it a try.	2001-11-26
US	52871710	R106OANXMC4WW6	0451409892	947961599	Phantom Waltz	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Very enjoyable and different	I'm a longtime romance reader and, as Catherine Anderson says in her foreward, every now and then I get a little tired with the perfection of the prototype romance characters. With this book Ms. Anderson tries to stand that convention on its head, and succeeds in almost every way. <br />The heroine, Bethany, is a paraplegic, injured far more than physically over the years because of her accident and the attitudes of people around her. She's wounded, wary and repressed in almost every way. The hero, Ryan, is a perfect romance hero in that he's goodlooking, rich, sensitive, etc, etc, etc. He's almost too good to be true, but Ms. Anderson saves him from being too much a cliche by having Bethany react to him the same way the reader does -- &quot;Can this guy possibly be for real?!&quot; Much to Bethany's delight, he is. And he wants to be in it for the long haul before Bethany does.<br />The genuine emotion and feeling Ms. Anderson evokes between these two characters saves what could be some really melodramatic scenarios. Aside from a few odd plot points that didn't resonate with me, I really enjoyed spending a few hours getting to know Ryan and Bethany, and watching their love story unfold. I think you will too. Give it a try.	2001-11-21
US	52871710	R2KWNHK8ZBXXZC	0451409892	947961599	Phantom Waltz	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Very enjoyable and different	I'm a longtime romance reader and, as Catherine Anderson says in her foreward, every now and then I get a little tired with the perfection of the prototype romance characters. With this book Ms. Anderson tries to stand that convention on its head, and succeeds in almost every way. <br />The heroine, Bethany, is a paraplegic, injured far more than physically over the years because of her accident and the attitudes of people around her. She's wounded, wary and repressed in almost every way. The hero, Ryan, is a perfect romance hero in that he's goodlooking, rich, sensitive, etc, etc, etc. He's almost too good to be true, but Ms. Anderson saves him from being too much a cliche by having Bethany react to him the same way the reader does -- &quot;Can this guy possibly be for real?!&quot; Much to Bethany's delight, he is. And he wants to be in it for the long haul before Bethany does.<br />The genuine emotion and feeling Ms. Anderson evokes between these two characters saves what could be some really melodramatic scenarios. Aside from a few odd plot points that didn't resonate with me, I really enjoyed spending a few hours getting to know Ryan and Bethany, and watching their love story unfold. I think you will too. Give it a try.	2001-11-21
US	52871710	R3AK77KWHW1HH9	0821768441	23497643	Love To Love You Baby (Zebra Contemporary Romance)	Books	3	8	8	N	N	Enjoyable and fun	The hero and heroine of Love to Love You, Baby make this story really engaging because they're so true to life and yet just a little off-center. Each has been washed up in their career of choice and is searching for the next thing. They're frustrated, frustrating (to each other) and just plain mixed up. Spending time with them and the adorable baby who accidentally lands in the hero's lap, as well as the daffy extended cast of characters, makes for a romance of sheer escapist fun. There are some slow spots in the middle, and some events seem forced for humor rather than enhancing the story, but overall, this is a good bet for a laugh and a few hours away from your own frustrations. It's not quite as good as Can't Take My Eyes Off Of You, but much better than Ms. Michaels' last effort. Give it a try.	2001-11-19
US	52871710	RWUIMI2K6ITCH	0380818329	716131497	The Wedding Wager	Books	3	13	14	N	N	Mixed effort - great hero	I'm torn on Ms. Maxwell's latest; I really liked the hero and the overall plot of the book. I love horses too, so that influenced me. However, the heroine really got on my nerves. Sometimes I liked her and could understand her actions; at other times she was a very annoying and immature snot stamping her foot and whining about her independence. I don't think she ultimately matched up in strength of character to the excellent self-made hero (something you don't often get to see in historical romance, though it's becoming more common). That said, the last section of the book is the best of it, and the heroine becomes more likeable. <br />If you like historical romance and you're looking for a light, mostly frothy read, then give this one a try. If you're looking for a more intense and sunstantial story with a hero and heroine who live on with you, this probably isn't the one for you.	2001-11-19
US	52871710	R2R20UVM91LTS4	0380780755	89054331	Dancing at Midnight (Avon Historical Romance)	Books	4	6	6	N	N	It's not as Splendid as my favorite Quinn	Splendid is a tough book to top, and Dancing at Midnight didn't do it for me. But Ms. Quinn has never written a bad book, and this one is fun in its own right. If you're already a fan of Ms. Quinn, then snap this up and you'll like it. If you're thinking about trying her books for the first time, you'll love it. It's  all in perspective and timing...! Enjoy	2001-11-19
US	52871710	R3PBZGK9J6EV62	1575668696	311816689	All Through The Night	Books	3	24	26	N	N	Mixed bag - 2 are great	Anthologies are always tricky because you never know what you're going to get. Sometimes it's a great find: many times you buy it for one author and discover someone new. This anthology is almost like two-in-one, because two of the stories (Foster/McKenna) are very hot, with extremely erotic and spicy themes, while the other stories feel like they belong in another type of anthology altogether because they're bland. <br />Thea Devine (one of the queens of erotic romance) is extremely and surprisingly toned down in her effort, which I thought was weak compared to other novellas by her. The Suzanne Forster story did absolutely nothing for me, and I don't think it belonged in an erotic anthology - a sensual one, maybe. I thought it was choppy, hard to follow, and kind of creepy.<br />I've found Lori Foster to be hit-or-miss as a category author, but this story is well-done, and very sexy, with some believable and unexpected twists. I loved the hero in particular. <br />Shannon McKenna is a new writer of erotic romance and good for her, because her story was my favorite of the four! It was very sexy, edgy and different. The hero and heroine seemed like a good match and their love scenes were... wow.<br />If you like good erotic romance, then buy this for the McKenna story and enjoy the Foster novella as a bonus. If you're trying erotic romance for the first time, try the Captivated or Fascinated anthologies first because they're more complete and better overall.	2001-11-19
US	52871710	R3P5NUGMVDP098	0515131539	607439941	My Warrior (Knights of de Ware)	Books	3	7	10	N	N	Childish heroine brings down good story	I'm a long-time romance fan with a particular affinity for the medieval period. I liked Duncan and Linet's story last year and was looking forward to the continuing adventures of the de Ware clan. I really like the hero of this story - Holden de Ware, who is everything a medieval warrior hero should be. I am however, deeply disappointed with the heroine - Cambria Gavin - who is no match for Holden in any way, as far as I can tell. <br />As a young Scots woman charged with either maintaining a fragile truce with the English (brokered by her father) or destroying it, Cambria makes every self-righteous, immature choice possible, and does everything she can to ensure ongoing trouble for herself and everyone around her. She has no sense of diplomacy, no sense of restraint. Every impetuous comment or action that occurs in her fevered little brain pops right out, and it becomes maddening to the reader as she falls into one scrape after another, or causes injury to others because of her thoughtlessness. <br />Throughout this, Holden, with long-suffering patience and amazing temperance, does not beat her or lock her up (except for briefly). Instead, he sets out to make her trust him and fall in love with him. Why he thinks she's worth having is not clear to me. That he succeeds and they fall in love is a given, since this is a romance. But I was left unsatisfied, thinking that Holden definitely got the short end of the bargain. I hope the other de Ware brothers fare better in their choices of mates and the HEA endings to come.	2001-11-12
US	52871710	R63OQ5AIQW16M	0553584367	865755988	2 books in 1: Dream of Me and Believe in Me	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Rich in detail, great characters	If you enjoy historical romance, then do yourself a favor and check out these two books by Josie Litton. The writing is descriptive and the rich historical detail is more than just wallpaper (a flaw in many current historicals). The characters in both books are well-drawn and interesting. Personally, I preferred the first of the two, but I definitely liked them both a lot. The only reason I didn't give them five stars is because I think the &quot;magical/paranormal&quot; aspects of the heroines in both seemed rather incomplete and inconsistent. The &quot;gifts&quot; were very present sometimes and missing other times without real explanation. Beyond that minor plot comment, these books are terrific. Check them out - you'll be glad you did! I can't wait to dive into the third!!	2001-10-31
US	52871710	R9QW9IQ8IIHG7	0553576267	570329646	The Vow	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Great book!	I love well-written and researched medieval romance, and Juliana Garnett is winning a place on my keeper shelves for sure with books like this one, The Baron, and The Knight. If you like Shana Abe and Madeline Hunter, do yourself a favor and check out The Vow or any of the Juliana Garnet titles. Characters you care about and plots that are accurate to their time. Nothing is better.	2001-10-12
US	52871710	RZBECJQCVQ1UH	0553583549	759987396	The Protector (Medievals)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	The way historical romance ought to be	I've loved all of Madeline Hunter's work so far, and my admiration just increased with The Protector. There's none of the overblown melodrama that often derails historical romance. You're involved with the characters, in a way that is really special. You really can't stand that Morvan took Anna's bow and sword away, even though you know he's probably right. You can FEEL their indecision and confusion and reluctant love for each other. And you're just so happy when he gives the sword and bow back, and when they realize that they can compromise and be together the way they both need to be. It's Happy Ever After but it's not easy and it's not pat and it's not melodrama. THAT is good historical romance writing. Madeline Hunter, like Shana Abe and Elizabeth Elliott, kind of makes everyone else's efforts pale by comparison	2001-07-19
US	52871710	R14208IO8VV7MA	0553292722	94468636	Still Waters: A Novel	Books	5	3	3	N	N	A KEEPER FOR SURE!!	I've been a romance reader for a long time, and this is still one of my alltime favorite books. The characters, the dialogue the descriptions -- everything is so well done. Whenever someone asks me to recommend a romantic suspense novel I definitely list this one, along with Linda Howard's Dream Man. Well-written, a hero and heroine who are really well-matched in attitude and character (no two people ever wanted to fall in love less than these two!), and interesting sub-plots that keep the identity of the murderer in question throughout. Keep 'em coming, Tami!!	2001-07-13
US	52871710	R2JEDWB2TWKGN2	0312265840	198558647	Seven Up (Stephanie Plum, No. 7) (Stephanie Plum Novels)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Loved it, but now I'm MAD!	I love the Stephanie Plum series and this book is a worthy addition to the series, with all the mayhem and hilarity I've come to expect. The interplay between Stephanie and her family gets better and better, and the evolution of the Steph-Morelli relationship is fun to watch.... If you've read the rest of the Plum series, then you must have this book to keep the story going and it's worth it.... If you haven't read any of the Plum series yet, go back to the beginning or at least book #3 - Three to Get Deadly. If you start with this one you'll miss out on a whole lot of good stuff. Enjoy. It's a great series. Steph is a great character. I just hope the cliffhanger thing dies a swift death before I can't stand to read about her exploits anymore.	2001-06-23
US	52871710	R3NWIBSEKI5MKO	0380802325	85428738	Suddenly You	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Terrific!!	I'm a longtime romance reader, and I've been a Lisa Kleypas fan for awhile. I find that, unlike with many long-time authors, each new book from her gets better and better. Suddenly You is my new favorite (replacing Where Dreams Begin by a smidge). A fresh plotline, well-developed characters, and a realistic resolution are the things that stood out most for me. I have come to expect those things from Lisa's work, but this one went to a new level. Kudos and thank you! When's the next one due?????	2001-06-15
US	52871710	R3VMFTQ0PLMPMM	0553582003	531722337	The Secret Swan	Books	5	6	7	N	N	OH SO GOOD!!	This was the first book I've read by Shana Abe and this slightly cynical, long-time romance fan was astonished, touched and impressed by the experience. Successfully walking that fine line between romantic melodrama and genuine emotion which trips up so many writers, Shana created characters you could believe in and root for, then set them within the confines of a historically rich, accurate medieval world. Reading this book wasn't just reading, it was moving into another world for a few hours. That's really good historical writing. The quality of the romance and the well-matched, fully-developed hero and heroine made it even better. KUDOS to Shana Abe. You've earned a new, appreciative fan here! If you've never read medieval romance or Shana Abe, do yourself a favor and give this one a try. You won't be disappointed.	2001-06-14
US	52871710	R3TQW4EX0AOMPV	0553265741	249097119	Sacred Sins	Books	5	7	9	N	N	The start of something great...	I agree with those reviewers who are calling Sacred Sins somewhat dated and formulaic because it does feel that way if you're reading it now for the first time. But as a long-time Nora fan who read Sacred Sins when it was first released back in 1990, I'd just like to remind everybody that this was the START of Nora's career!! These two characters, more than any others from earlier books illustrate the archetype characters that we know and love Nora for! Ben Paris is a classic hero and still possibly my favorite Nora hero, though it's a tough call after all this time.  I don't think Sacred Sins should have been released again in hardcover - that seems like a stretch. But if you're just discovering romantic suspense, and just discovering Nora, to start with Sacred Sins and build from there is exactly what her career did. I am a grateful and appreciative fan, more than a decade later. I guess it's all in the perspective. At a recent Nora booksigning I chose to have Sacred Sins and The Villa signed because they represent to me the spectrum of her career and my following of it.	2001-04-09
US	52871710	R2Z9PEXRVW4HKX	006108560X	731139372	Candle in the Window RI	Books	5	15	16	N	N	THIS BOOK IS A KEEPER!	I LOVED this book! It was well-researched, well-written, DIFFERENT, and so moving that I actually cried in places. Kudos to Christina Dodd for giving herself a tough assignment (a medieval heroine with a disability) and  turning it into a story of romance, passion and tenderness. I have read  other books by Ms. Dodd and enjoyed them, but this is BY FAR the best of  them all. THANK YOU!	2000-07-04
US	52871710	RSFN5W18ZALFY	0440234565	319506287	Potent Pleasures (The Pleasures Trilogy)	Books	4	5	6	N	N	Engaging and fun!	I thoroughly enjoyed this book. The plot was unique, the characters were well drawn and the dialogue was witty. I laughed out loud in more than one place. It reminded me a little of Julia Quinn in style. If you like strong  characters, complicated story lines, and some humor with your historical  romance, you'll like this book. I'm anxiously awaiting the sequel  now...it's supposed to be out in August.	2000-06-26
US	52871710	R1M8V44OVIAGJG	0312853416	794855478	The Wagered Widow	Books	5	2	2	N	N	witty, laugh-out-loud fun	I have been a long-time Patricia Veryan fan and this particular book is my favorite. The hero is suitably tormented by his undeclared love for the plucky heroine, and general mayhem occurs throughout. If you like  absorbing, well-researched historicals that let you have FUN while you  read, then this is a great choice!	2000-01-21
US	52871710	R33NSULHOQG1Z1	0425171299	806766173	Charmed	Books	4	14	17	N	N	A mixed bag overall	I bought this anthology because of Jayne Castle and Julie Beard, but I'm keeping it because of Lori Foster! Her contribution was witty, very sexy and different. That's hard to come by if you read a lot of romances.  I was  somewhat disappointed in the Julie Beard story, which felt like it might  have been a good novel that was condensed abruptly into a short story. The  other two were satisfying as quick reads, but weren't great. They didn't  live with me afterwards the way Lori Foster's story did.<br />If you like  spice, buy this anthology for the Lori Foster story. If you don't, then  don't buy it because there's nothing really special about the rest of it.	2000-01-21
US	52871710	RWGZSFSNWHBJW	0505523124	385382443	A Case of Nerves (Perfect Heroes Series, 4)	Books	5	1	3	N	N	What's better than romance, humor, and history all-in-one?!	For me, here is nothing more enjoyable than a book which successfully interweaves romance, humor and a touch of historical mystery. This book has it all! It absorbed me right from the beginning, and  made me laugh out  loud many times. I thought the historical aspects of the romance gave the  book a depth that isn't often achieved by first-time novelists. The plot  was unusual and well-written. Kudos to Angie Kay.  I can't wait for her  next one!!!	1999-05-27
