US	52885820	RIBUKL5DK05G2	0312276982	552272371	The Jekyl Island Club	Books	4	12	14	N	N	Really good page turner	I am not a Southern native, but I have had the great pleasure of a weekend at the Jekyll Island Club. There, over oysters and champagne you can can easily imagine a long forgotten patrician America, who spent their weekends &quot;roughing it&quot; in unmatched splendor.  One can still have brunch there, served by starched, tuxedo-clad waiters, after whcih play croquet on the lawn or golf on a pretty good course once the property of the Goodyears and the Morgans.<br />This is the wonderful setting for a period mystery by experienced author Brent Moynahan, who deftly crafts a tale of murder, revenge, avarice and envy set in a prestigious capitalist resort. One of the members, limited by invitation only to the 100 richest men in the US, Erastus Springer, has been found dead, apparantly shot during his morning constitutional. John LeBrun, Brunswick sherriff has been called almost as an afterthought to solve the case, presumably with the least fuss possible to the powerful members. LeBrun, who is above corruption, is thwarted by the members, especially J.P. Morgan and Joseph Pulizer, arch captialist and arch populist rivals in everything except their  rabid dedication to the Club.<br />If flawed, this novel is not the nail-biting suspenseful mystery that leads us along with crumbs of evidence to the great &quot;aha&quot; at the end. It does though admirably succeed in its characterization of the people, especially of the very rich and vary poor, who made fin-de-siecle America, and lived bathed in the resntments and ignorance of the War of Northern Agression. It beautifully paints Georgia of the era and tells a story as much tension and grit as charm and wit. By the satisfying end we care less about the plot reaching its logical conclusion as we do seeing a good man prevail. Heartily recommeended, and and admirable Summer read, especially if you are poolside at one of the Barrier Island resorts.	2004-04-17
US	52885820	R3PC4HUGCY51OC	222613624X	191714726	L'Empire Des Loups	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Un bon roman policier	Au quartier turc, des femmes ont eu meurtri  avec des blessures horribles aux figures. Capitaine Paul Nerteaux doit trouver le tueur, et le cherche avec l'assistance de Jean-Louis Schiffer, Le Chiffre. Enfin, ils chassent Les Loups Gris, le mafia turc. Au mme temps, lointain, une femme, Anna Hemes a une crise de nerfs, et ne peut pas reconnatre le visage de son mari. Il y'a une connection enre les deux, et l'histoire nous  saisit de bon effect. C'est un roman  la mme faon de Dan Brown, et je le recommande completement. (Je suis amricain, et je ne parle pas franais qu'un peu, mais je comprends le livre avec l'assistance d'un dictionaire de temps en temps. J'epre que je ne vous ai pas bless.)	2003-08-13
US	52885820	R1T254F4MOPLX1	222613624X	191714726	L'Empire Des Loups	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Un bon roman policier	Au quartier turc, des femmes ont eu meurtri  avec des blessures horribles aux figures. Capitaine Paul Nerteaux doit trouver le tueur, et le cherche avec l'assistance de Jean-Louis Schiffer, Le Chiffre. Enfin, ils chassent Les Loups Gris, le mafia turc. Au mme temps, lointain, une femme, Anna Hemes a une crise de nerfs, et ne peut pas reconnatre le visage de son mari. Il y'a une connection enre les deux, et l'histoire nous  saisit de bon effect. C'est un roman  la mme faon de Dan Brown, et je le recommande completement. (Je suis amricain, et je ne parle pas franais qu'un peu, mais je comprends le livre avec l'assistance d'un dictionaire de temps en temps. J'epre que je ne vous ai pas bless.)	2003-08-13
US	52885820	R2FLLJOORZX7JK	0156028778	990216712	The Crimson Petal and the White	Books	4	3	6	N	N	Neither fish nor fowl	I read this novel expecting a contemporary recreation of Collins or Trollope, but was ready for something different should it arrive. Alas, having finished the read, I am left somewhat confused. The stars are earned on the prose and structure, remeniscent of a 19th century English novel, say, Radcliffe. Borrowing from classic style, the story is presented by a narrator, an anonymous entity who occasionally breaks the stylized classic structure into a casually directed glance at a contemporary observer, the reader. The effect is, mildly put, distracting. As described elsewhere, the characters are, if nothing else, classic: a shallow rakestraw husband (today we might call him bipolar), a self-made invalid wife, a whore-savant, and a supporting cast of the affected, the disaffected and the religious addicted. They behave and the plot is structured as one might anticipate. The conflicts are predictable, but hardly trite, and that it meanders is symptomatic of the time and not the novel. Also as other reviewers have noted the story degenerates to  brutal and unwelcomly frequent descriptions of intimacies, that left me wondering if Mr. Faber's purpose in this work is to pander the modern reader in a setting of classical decency - a sort of literary wrapping one's Playboy in National Geographic. What we are left with is something a little to frank to be Dickensian, and a little to self-conscious to be contemporary. Mr. Faber earns four stars for creating a colorful tableau of Victorian London, but shys from greatness and misses the fifth star by not deciding to whom he was writing.	2003-08-05
US	52885820	R2LAKH6Q1VQ6KC	0142001805	89209679	The Eyre Affair: A Thursday Next Novel	Books	5	3	3	N	Y	Wonderful fun	At the risk of being called a radical postmodernist, I highly recommend this goofy thriller. Hard to characterize, it is at once a murder mystery, on another, science fiction, and yet again literary play on words. We are dropped in on the life of heroine Thursday Next, Special ops Detective for LiteraTec, lately involved in the theft of an original Martin Chuzzlewit (a book, not a person). She is called upon to help in the capture of an old nemesis, Acheron Hades, and is involved in murder most foul. Well, this is a long way from apprending illicit translations of Dr. Faustus, but it beats getting sent to the Crimea and getting an arm blown off. Bending time, crossing literary genres and encountering an array of colorful characers (including Jack Schitt, Braxton Hicks and uncle Mycroft), Next pursues Hades to Swindon, her birthplace.<br />This is unadulterated fun, and a great summer page turner. It shows just how far one can take a plot by abandoning all reason. Part postmodern thriller, part literary excursion, you could do no better with a couple of hours by the pool than read this book.	2003-08-01
US	52885820	RB5LS93CT4RF8	0874871441	122989257	Suzuki Violin School: Violin Part, Vol. 1	Books	5	62	64	N	Y	The one, the only and still the greatest	To the parents of children undertaking the violin, be advised. The detractors that have reservations about the Suzuki method/book are missing two basic facts a) your child will learn how to play the violin (beautifully with some effort), and b) that this is really the only method that directly addresses the daunting task of teaching a string instrument to a child with pre-reading or early reading skills. Like it or not, agree with it or not, this is the method that your teacher will more probably than not adopt. It really does work; I have seen a string orchestra, taught by Suzuki, performing the Bach Concerto for 2 Violins in which none of the performers was over 12. Lest you read other reviews and be tempted to pass on Suzuki for some more &quot;conventional&quot; method, give this book and a good teacher a try, and be amazed at the skills that your child displays.	2003-05-12
US	52885820	R1RMJR9EFMC8CV	0743227190	327792241	President Nixon: Alone in the White House	Books	3	38	42	N	Y	The who, what, when and where but sadly not the why	To those of us old enough to remember the Nixon administration, it is not surprising that a chronicle of his presidency is a series of ancecdotes that leaves us shaking our head and completely baffled. This history deftly describes the &quot;Nixon years&quot; in a series of events painted for us as a series of tableaux. That it does quite admirably. We see him as a moody, paranoid, and impulsive man literally with his finger on the button. As public opinion of him, never very strong, wanes and his accomplishments pale under public approbation, we see him becoming more relentlessly isolated and desperate. One might then read this as the diary of a man descending into the very deepest despair.<br />As a chronicle, then, this book succeeds. However, the most compelling aspect of the Nixon presidency is missing; its central question. How is is possible that this man who mistrusted so deeply the workings of a free society, who resented so many of its people, become its leader, and its spokesman to the world? We see here a Nixon that resents intellectuals, the media, racial groups, religious minorities, his predecessors, his successors, all Democrates, and on and on. This is a president who had his reelection wrapped up who still felt the need to bug his electoral opponents and undermine their campaign. Here is a man who can't run a shower and forever bans soup at state dinners because he mussed his shirt. Here is a man who regards any criticism whatsoever as forever condemning its author. We want to know how this all came to pass. The fascinating part is the understanding of what forces shaped him and led this adminstration to it ignominious end. Why did he want to be president at all? Why did we elect him? Why did he self-destruct? Certainly it is more than an acciddent of the times - filling the void left by the equally tragic Johnson's abdication. No, there must be a deeper story here that is not manifest in the day-to-day business. By depriving us of any image of Nixon's childhood, his dance with the Kennedy's and his ultimate election (admittedly not the focus of this book), and dropping us into his life on day one of the administration, we miss who Nixon was and get no perspective on the actions that are so meticulously described.<br />Maybe it was all just an accident. Maybe it was an unresolved oedipal thing, as the movie Nixon suggests. I really think nthat neither are true. It is my belief that Nixon the man is a reflection of our society, that it is somehow born of the American independant spirit. We inherit our paranoia as a side-effect of our individualism. If Nixon is alone, we all are alone. There is something in what happened to Richard Nixon that calls to us all. His tragedy should pluck at some string in our soul. The inevitable, and relentless question, &quot;Why?&quot; is missing herein. President Nixon: Alone in the White House is a fascinating chronicle, but the Lear in this story, the workings of the tragedy that propelled him to an inevitable end, is sadly missing.	2003-04-25
US	52885820	RO6C69ZWT44KS	0683015087	792232710	Pediatric Cardiac Intensive Care	Books	3	14	15	N	Y	Better suited to the nurses than the doctors	The pedagogy of Pediatric Cardiology is already well covered by two masterfully written texts: Moss and Garson. They are, admittedly, tough acts to follow. A clinically oriented text, directed specifically toward the difficult problems encountered in the intensive care setting, however, would be appreciated. This text attempts to fill that need.<br />Not surprisingly, pediatric cardiac Intensive care is largely dedicated to perioperative management of congenital heart disease, and this text approaches it in this manner. After the expected chapters in monitoring, pharmacology and so on, large sections are devoted to preoperative care, operative considerations and posoperative care. There is a generic discussion of extracorporeal support and dialysis. The text ends with consideration of social and ethical issues,<br />I had hoped, when I read this book that it would enhance and expand the information found in general texts. For example, I know the litany of agents used for sedating posoperative patients. What I would like is some discussion of which is useful in a given set of circumstances, and how each might intereact with other aspects of care. Does any provide a specific advantage in a given clinical situation or represent a unique hemodynamic risk? This text generally does not explore cardiac care in this depth. <br />The text does have its strengths. The descriptions of surgical repair are well done and the illustrations of them are clear. They would be very useful in describing the surgical procedure to parents or staff. The generic approach is most useful to nursing staff and respiratory therapists, especially those just orienting to the PCCU.<br />Pediatric Cardiac Intensive Care is a well organized general text on the subject. Its approach is best suited to the nursing staff. Cardiac fellows, attendings and cardiac intensivists will find little here that expands their knowledge.	2003-03-14
US	52885820	R14WXUQ201YNZW	0156001314	444581246	The Name of the Rose: including the Author's Postscript	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Awesome. One of the best books of the 20th century	I don't think that it is hyperbole to describe this book as awesome. I am not the first to sing its praises...I have just finished reading it for the third time, twice in English, once in French, and found it each time more rich and satisfying than the time before. The last reading was intering because the French have had an experience with Catholicism far different than ours, and it appears in the prose. It would be presumptous to give it the number one honors, because the list of 20th century authors in the competition is pretty stiff (Joyce, Faulkner, Kafka, Steinbeck, Grass...), but this book gives all of them a good running for their money. To read this as simply a dark ages murder mystery would be satisfying enough - there are plenty of passages describing odd and quirky, monastic life with enough colorful characters to make a satisfying read. But the book is oh, so much more. It is no accident that the setting is pre-renaissance Italy. The story plays like a tarot spread before us. Adso is the Fool, the library is the Tower, William of Baskerville is the Wizard. The story is that of the Hanged Man. What we have here is the first skirmish between faith and science, This battle is shortly to come to a head in the trial of Gallileo that would see the the Renaissance migrate to Northern Europe. Here is the church encrusted with tradition, threatened by a man of reason and insight. Baskerville is no heretic, but is seen as one...We fight these same battles today, of demagoguery and closed-mindedness. Like William Stryon in Sophie's Choice, the characters play out a simple a drama, but on closer inspection can be seen to represent so much more. Be it Naziism or the Inquisition, a tyrant is still a tyrant, but truth and spirit will prevail regardless. Read Eco's book as a murder mystery if you desire, but see it as Everyman retold, and come to see a gread deal more.	2003-03-08
US	52885820	RVG6ITQRDT3VJ	0070590974	168333403	001: A New Age Now Begins: A People's History of the American Revolution (2 Volume Set)	Books	5	32	32	N	N	Reprint this, please!	This is a time in which American ideals are challenged by the reality of a modern, hostile world and internal struggle, so it seems like a good idea to examine our history. The best place I know to do so is Mr. Smith's excellent history of America. Massive yet very approachable, it brings to mind Simon Shaara's novels. Smith, one of our great historians, never succumbs to the academic's temptation to footnote and reference every fact. He writes beautifully, in a manner that brings history alive. By all means look for and treasure a copy of all 8 volumes of this ambitious project. It is sad that it is long out of print, as I know of no better history of our republic. If an editor reads this review, I emplore you to republish the entire set.<br />The first 2 volumes are a narrative history of the revolution, followed by books on the early republic, then the Civil War, the rise of industrial America, it's emergence into the world, and finishing with the Depression and the New Deal. Mr. Smith is a true scholar, so there are plenty of facts, but they are never dry or uninteresting, and they are presented as a story to be told, rather than a point to be made. Take a year off from other reading projects and take this 7 kilopage project on. You might consider reading Manchester's The Glory and the Dream to finish off with the history of America since 1932, and put it all in perspective. I strongly recommend you read this entire series and get a new appreciation for our country and a truly fine author.	2003-03-06
US	52885820	R1XLFRQ0YX06FC	0721643019	884896398	Cardiac Surgery of the Neonate and Infant	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Essential reference	The surgical correction of congenital heart disease, during the last 30 years has gone from infantile and largely experimental to a mature art. The change in mortality among children suffering from these conditions during this period of time is nothing short of awesome. Conditions that were universally fatal in the first year of life before 1970 are now routinely cured with followup data now entering well into adulthood. It is hard to imagine that it is now twenty years since the first successful surgical treatment of a child with hypoplastic leaft heart syndrome, and that this most dreaded anomaly is now successfully treated in over 80% of cases in some centers.<br />It is likewise hard to imagine any individual who had a greater impact on surgical repair of congenital heart disease than the senior author of this book. I say this with some bias, as I was fortunate enough to have him operate on my son who was born with transposition of the great vessels while I was a fellow in Pediatric Cardiology. He and his coauthors are universally recognized as leaders in the field, and their authorship of this book is nothing short of masterful.<br />This work is an essential reference for all who treat children with congenital heart disease. All current surtical techniques are discussed and well illustrated. Its publication in 1994 may miss some modern nuances, as endoscopic approaches to repair, but all of it is here. The text does not dwell on diagnostic techniques - for those, it would be better to look at Garson or Moss. This book is directed solely at the surgery, and that it does well. Illustrations are clear. Surgical considerations, including intraoperative and posoperative concerns are well discussed. The data describing surgical results is compehensive through its publication date. Anyone doing a fellowship in pediatric cardiology cardiology will spend some time with this book, and it does not need my recommendation to know that it will find its way onto the bookshelf of most pediatric cardiologists and cardiovascular surgeons.	2003-03-06
US	52885820	R1BE59705E7YE6	1585670502	936748494	The Book of Kings	Books	4	10	15	N	N	Worth reading, undeservedly panned.	After having read this book, I must take serious exception to the detractors that have given this book an undeserved thumbs down. It is frankly dirty pool to compare it unfavorably to War and Peace, one of the great historical novels of all times. It is likewise unfair to criticize the author as being full of himself, or unable to write in a manner in which people speak; that is what may be termed style. It is also disingenuous  to admire the typeface as the only redeeming quality of the book. How  about  criticizing Proust as being wordy? That the prose is self conscious adds, to my mind, a kind of period authenticity. Much of the writing of the time was similarly stilted. Look, for example  at Paul Scott's Raj Quartet, Robert Musil's Man without Qualities, or Anthony Powell's  Dance to the Music of Time, each of which compares favorably to this book, and none gets such an undesrved bashing. Upton Sinclair won a Pulitzer for the Lanny Budd novels with this self-conscious prose and none of the substance herein. Thackery  and Trollope were every bit as convoluted. It seems that the critics should  cut Mr. Thackara some  slack; just sit down and enjoy the journey.<br />The story traces four friends, two principally, through prewar and subsequently war-torn Europe, elaborately staged from drawing-room to battlefield. The prose is indeed ornate, but after all this was a time of demagogues and hyperbole. My sole criticism is that it is far from unexplored country. Like an old silver mine, all the nuggets have been carried away long ago. It is prettty derivative stuff. It is not a new idea that the reality of war makes disillusionment of ideals. Still, this is a story that  needs to be told lest we forget. We watch Grand Illusion now, realizing that it is as compelling as it was more than a half a century ago, although the acting seems wooden and it is in black and white. We have not as a society had to face a loss of innocence for some time, and perhaps that is the bestreason to read this period piece and be caught  up in the hubris of a near forgotten past.	2003-03-06
US	52885820	R34N42I8AQ36TW	0609608444	517121775	The Devil in the White City:  Murder, Magic, and Madness at the Fair That Changed America	Books	5	9	11	N	Y	Gave me the creeps	I lived, a few years ago, in the South side of Chicago, while I was going to school, a few blocks from the Museum of Science and Industry. I was intrigued, therefore, by this remarkable account of a history the area had, of which I was totally unaware.<br />I must say that I bought this book with expectations that I thought were inflated, after having read some of the reviews in this site. Happily, I was not disappointed. Fin de siecle America has always had a fascination for me, and this book explores its excesses and darkness in a way that no other has, in my recollection. As I am sure you are aware, it tells the parallel and converging stories of the World Fair held in Chicago during the presidency of Grover Cleveland, and that of Dr. H. H. Holmes, our first serial killer. We see an America that is on the one hand naive, and on the other already overbloated and self-possessed. Somehow this first fantasy theme park is the perfect vehicle for the appearance of our first sociopath, as though he was to be conceived and born by a concert of forces that was to also spawn an America ready to become the imperialist titan that T. Roosevelt was to make it a few years later. That a cold-blooded killer could walk undetected and unimpeded there is at once amazing and on the other not surprising, as anonymity and identity were already lost in faceless urban America. It is in some way, premonitory. <br />This is historical fiction that is at once well-structured and paced. It is a fascinating read, that could well have been novelized. Gratefully it was not. Read it, and I am sure that it will change the way you feel about Cracker Jacks, Ferris Wheels and Juicy Fruit gum. I can anticipate that the picture rights have already been sold, but I sincerely suggest that you read it now, before the movie ruins it for you.	2003-02-25
US	52885820	R1VMDJDZE1CF2K	0743406125	302105199	Year Zero	Books	4	1	1	N	Y	Grim apocalyptic thriller	The end of the world seems to be a common topic for novels these days, and into the fray runs this entry into the genre. The drift is that a great plague has been unleashed on man, inadvertently of course, by a wealthy art collector's obsession for the discovery of an artifact of the historical Jesus. The world is in ruin, there are millions dead in the the calamity that follows it. We follow some of the survivors, a child genius, an archeologist and a few others as they seek to resolve personal issues and discover a cure. We are witness in the tale to a dark, grim portrayal of civilization as it decays around them with the faintest of rays of hope. The characters are compelling even if one can not identify with them. We are not overburdened with the science. Mr. Long, in an afterword says tht it started as a medical thriller, buth then evolved in the writing into an exploration of Religion v. Science in the setting of the apocalypse. He succeeds in its writing. Though not the happiest of books, it leaves us with that glimmer that perhaps we will have our woes, even on a cosmic scale, and that it just may be all right.	2003-02-13
US	52885820	R2DEIO2NWM60S9	0312280750	785769952	Decipher	Books	4	29	37	N	N	Now hear this! Linguist saves the world	What do you get when you cook a brew that contains the Bible, Atlantis, contemporary physics, the pyramids, and chaos theory? The answer is Decipher. Hang onto your hats, because this apocalyptic thriller includes just about every element of cult and bone fide science imaginable. In fact, this is the only novel in my memory that has its own reference list, a long one at that. Here's the drift: solar flares are getting more intense, apparently leading up to some great catastrophe that will destroy the earth. Under the antarctic ice the city of Atlantis is found, made of a harder-than-diamond material called Carbon-60. Embedded into its molecular structure, we are told, is the the secret to save the world from impending disaster, if only we can read the code. Throw in the Book of the Dead, Isaiah, Leibnitz, Euler, the Peoples Republic of China, and an army of nanobot golems, and you have a bottom of the world thriller that is if nothing else a good read. That the plot is contrived and more than a little unbelievable is not in question. Nor is it  that the ending is a little derivative (see the first Star Trek movie for a preview). It is still pretty gripping. More from the author would be apprecaited. Perhaps the jacket of his next book will tell us if a bachelor's degree in physics is prerequisite for the course.	2003-02-13
US	52885820	R2GHE13K7HCAGV	0345303814	838693340	The Psychotronic Encyclopedia of Film	Books	5	7	7	N	Y	We're all here because we're not all there	I am the first to confess that not everyone spends their time wondering if they might like to watch Untamed Women tonight, or have an Ed Wood film festival, but I am one of them. Call me crazy (ahem!), but I like really bad old movies, especially the ones that try to scare/pander you. Perhaps I yearn for the time when showing a bit of cleavage was considered racy. So I nose around the discount rack looking for such gems as Mermaids of Tiburon or The Earth Dies Screaming. I come across a copy of Demonoid. Should I buy it or not? Comes the rescue the Psychotronic guide which safely guides me through these murky dark waters. It and its companion Video guide are essential for those who share my idea of fun, with reviews of 6000 screen gems, such as Curse at Cactus Creek and Robot Monster.<br />Perhaps my only objection is that the guide makes no pretense at being authoritative. For example, When a Stranger Calls is reivewed (favorably), but its sequel, When a Stranger Calls back, does not appear at all (and is arguably the better movie). There is also a smattering of \\"legitimate\\" film, such as Pursuit of the Graf Spee, and Polyester. No matter, all the films reviewed are, at the least, quirky, and there is a pretty good chance, at any rate, that the film you seek is reviewed. If not, you will have great fun just looking for it.<br />My only grief is that the concordance is limited to an index. After all, what more important thing could there be than a filmography of Barbara Steele, the geratest actress that ever lived?<br />These things aside, I recommend this without hesitation. There are other books listing gore/sleeze/exploitation films, but you will find none better.	2002-12-09
US	52885820	R21NIO67YHRZI0	0425166619	885954525	Toxin	Books	1	5	8	N	N	Now I remember why I hated micro	If you think that it is impossible to make an exciting story about food poisoning, you might use this book as evidence. The story linearly follows Dr. Kim Reggis, cardiac surgeon as his daughter acquires a disease associated with a toxin-producing E. coli. His temperment, like much of this book, is so stereotypical, it could have been written by machine. Rude hospital administrators, indifferent emergency physicians, Barbie girlfriend, callous ex-wife, you have 'em all here.  I really can't find a single character with whom I can relate, or even like. I have no sense of the guts of any of them.  The action is so sedate that  a shoving match between the good surgeon and the knuckleheaded ER doctor is about as exciting as it gets. The writing would get a B- in creative writing 101. Find a better page turner to spend a couple of hours with. Maybe I'm being unfair, though. Perhaps this is the best one could do with a villain named O157:H7.	2002-12-07
US	52885820	RFCMTNJGQKG8A	0323014860	360087683	Harriet Lane Handbook: A Manual for Pediatric House Officers	Books	5	30	30	N	Y	Essential pocket reference	This book is so often seen on the pediatric ward that it hardly needs a review. I've been instructing residents for 20 years and can't think of one who hasn't used this book from time to time. Indeed, we joke that you can tell how old a pediatrician is by the color of his (her) Harriet Lane.<br />I must say that in the past I've had reservations about this book. The drug doses were very often conservative, and the formulary (which is the most frequently used part of it) was rather limited. If you ignore the resuscitation drugs, there are those that would find the Lexmark formulary more useful, especially since it includes much of the information that is in the PDR, such as dosage forms. <br />The present edition remedies the formulary, happily. Each of the sections is evenly well written, and consise, and the material is useful for the day-to-day work of the pediatric resident. Really, Harriet is indispensable, since it includes all the tables of lab values and growth curves that one uses every day. The present edition is so well written that I can hardly imagine future editions that could be improved in any substantial way. This book hardly needs my endorsement. Nonetheless, I heartily recommend it to any house officer who has a rotation on a pediatric ward.	2002-11-29
US	52885820	R1ZDBX8NJM7RX5	0441172695	445283043	Dune Messiah (The Dune Chronicles, Book 2)	Books	5	67	73	N	N	Misunderstood genius	One of the problems with a sequel is that it must contend with the preconceptions of readers, who have ideas about where the plot should go. Never mind what the author thinks, thank you very much. In this case, the handicap is what we think Should Happen to Paul after all he's gone through in Dune. Isn't this the time for them to ride off into the sunset?  It would be really great to think that he is a wonderful guy, marries Chani and lives happily ever after. A lot of the reviews of this second volume in the encyclopedic Dune series seem to yearn for it. Sorry, we have to disappoint you.<br />Imagine for a moment that you are the son of a pretty influential guy, that you are pretty happy in your present home, and dad's boss sends him on a wild goose chase after a fortune, hoping, no Planning, that you fail, in order that he can secure a fortune, kill your whole family, and discredit your name forever.  Now imagine that you narrowly escape, head off to exile where you are treated with suspicion, alternately an outsider and then as a god. In taking your revenge, you acquire the most important commodity in the universe, and you acquire the status of cult hero living god and emperor of the universe. Do you really think that you would be  Mr. Nice Guy after all that? <br />If one looks at Dune in this light, what happens in this sequel, Dune Messiah seems right. Your relcuctant bride, Irulan, is sure to be bitter, and want only to be the bearer of the next emperor. If you are Bene Geserit, you would do anything to interfere with Paul. If you are from one of the conquered worlds, you very likely not be happy about this bitter guy being emperor. If you are of the spacing guild you won't be happy about him having control of the spice. If you are a Paul disciple, you are going to die for him and the heck with anyone else. Thus the fight card is set: Paul and his cult vs. all his detractors, virtually everyone in the universe. Mr. Herbert gives us the blow-by-blow in a relatively compact synopsis.<br />Perhaps the above is a bit too obtuse. Suffice it to say that if you expect to find Mr. Wonderful hero in this, you should look elsewhere. Likewise if you need a warm and fuzzy romance or a shootemup space opera, you may not want to venture here. But if you want to explore the logical consequences of the price of power, and the bitterness it generates, this is just the ticket. I have read and reread this series at different times of my life, and each time am amazed at what I find new in each reading. Mr. Herbert holds up well beside so-called \\"legitimate\\" authors, and is head and shoulders above most of our current fantasy crop. Read this book and the rest of the series with an open mind and be amazed.	2002-11-29
US	52885820	R2BGRCFV3Y3M5H	0060536977	245555180	Prey CD	Books	4	19	26	N	Y	Serve my nanobots with saccharine, please ....	Mr. Crichton has developed a habit of taking current technologic challenges and submitting them to flights of fancy. Such is the case with his latest novel. Here is the thesis: increasingly complex systems become increasingly uncontrolable, and at some point may develop behaviors beyond those intended or anticipated by the designers. In a sense these behaviors may mimic evolution, at some point the creatures imitating if not in fact becoming sentient creatures. Of course these creatures would not be worth a novel if they didn't do Really Bad Things, and couldn't be contained or controlled in a conventional way. The creatures in this case are microscopic machines manufactured (bred?) to act as collectively as a camera, that take on the characterists  of a predatory algorithm conveniently built into its programming by its designers. They attack things, multiply, threaten to take over the earth; well, you get the idea. The subplot concerns the marital relationship between an unemployed programmer who just happened to design the algorithm, and his wife, who just happens to be an executive in the company who inadvisedly included his algorithm into the microbots. Did she cheat on him or not? Does the world end? What unswered questions will we have at the last page? Sticky sweet melodrama to be sure, but worth an afternoon to read. <br />The thought came to me as I read another of Mr. Crichton's books (Airframe) that he had written it with the movie rights in mind. No deep character development, thank you, and evenly paced, if not contrived, action. The same happened as I read this book. Now that is not necessarily a bad thing. If you want a little more meat with your starch, maybe try Stephen King. A lot more energy could have been given to what the principals felt and though along the whole way. Narrated by a man who on the one hand is troubled by his wife's (possibly unfaithful) behavior, and on the other by the technology he spawned that threatens mankind, I would haveliked a better image of what made him tick, and a little less stereotype. Being part geek by nature I didn't mind all the techno stuff, but it may be off-putting to some. These reservations aside, Prey is worth the time to read it, or as in this case, to hear while on the way to work. Keep your literary expecations in check, though, and try not to lose any sleep over the thought that there may be nanobots in your soup.	2002-11-24
US	52885820	R1WBTGSNQ66TRF	3822811580	436665152	All-American Ads of the 50s	Books	5	15	21	N	N	You are what you eat - or wear - or buy .....	There are many reasons to look backwards. For one, it may help to figure out where one is by looking at where one has been. For another, one might rethink where one is going by looking at the ideals and goals of the past. One might assess societies as a whole in some grand way, such as its military budget or the outcome of elections, but for us common folk, there is no way to tell what is on our minds better than a look at what we are buying. This book is an absolutely fascinating compendium of the culture of the 50's - of our desires, our habits, our values, as told in its advertisements. On one level it is an amusing recollection of what we once thought was cool. On another it is a profound study of the sociology of America in a time of idealism and innocence. I saw many, if not most of these ads myself when they were originally published. <br />That being said, I must add that the recollection of the feelings I had at that time is not entirely comfortable. On this other level, that of gut feelings, the book can be is a compendium of an appeal to the senses, to a culture of need, of having. One must look pretty deep to find any spiritual values here, and I think that the conspicuous absense of any moral sense is what is most interesting about it. Perhaps the most important lesson to be learned by those of us who look back is that the promises of those who offer us happiness by just one more purchase are really empty. Read this and be nostalgic, amused, reflective, and, just maybe, a little sad.	2002-10-29
US	52885820	R1YF698LT0ZICG	0859653145	558856452	Eaten Alive!: Italian Cannibal and Zombie Movies	Books	4	6	9	N	Y	Not for everyone	...<br />This book effectively catalogs the Italian cannibal/zombie genre from its beginnings in the early 60's through the late 80's. The timing of their ascendance, not surprisingly, coincides with an explosion of sexual and artistic permissiveness in Italy, with its inevitable backlash against the church. The book is largely a cinematic catalog, describing the setting, plot and acting for each film. You can count on a description of how, a) gory and b) sexy each film is. The pictures are fairly graphic, and I would surely keep this book away from the kids. As a series of reviews, I highly recommend the book.<br />If I was disappointed in any way, it is that I felt that the philosophical underpinnings of the genre was missing. Fulci and Romero weren't just making gory movies, they were making social statements. The recurring images of primitive tribes feasting on flesh, the dead rising from their graves to prey on the living are surely no accident. I would have appreciated a broader overview of the social/religious/political/gender issues. I sense that there is a college master's level thesis there. This book would have been a nice place to publish it. Alas, it is missing.<br />I have one small beef. I would have appreciated a cross-reference to the films, in the form of an index or the like, and a filmography of the directors. It too, is alas, missing. Without it, the broader context can not be seen. For example, how do these films fit in against, say, Black Sabbath, a cornerstone horror film of the period? <br />Notwithstanding my reservations, I was glad to see this book published and enjoyed reading it. If you have seen one or two of these rarities, and are hoping for a broader look, this is a good place to start.	2002-10-25
US	52885820	R37JFF3D7KJXKQ	0070607273	581597715	The Metabolic Basis of Inherited Disease, Vol. 1	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Essential reference work	I have had an incarnation of this text in my library ever since I was a resident in 1976, and have always had call to use it. As a magnum opus on metabolic and inherited diseases it is without equal. Every pediatric resident has seen a copy sometime in his or her training, and I do not think it presumptuous to say that it is impossible to imagine a geneticist or specialist in metabolism without a copy. Along with McKusic (Mendelian Inheritance ...), a complimentary work, it is among the essentials of the field. Be forewarned, &quot;Scriver&quot; (Stanbury, once upon a trime) is not for the faiint of heart. I constantly struggle with the depth of its scholarship. This edition emphasizes the underlying genetics more than prior volumes, a welcome, and necessary migration. For any pediatric subspecialist, access to a copy is essential, and its purchase, I think, is warranted.	2002-10-16
US	52885820	R2JQBNMS8P219Z	0321115473	375788177	DVD Studio Pro 1.5 for Macintosh: Visual QuickPro Guide	Books	5	5	8	N	Y	Able companion to Final Cut Pro Visual QuickPro Guide	Face it, Apple's Macintosh offers the most seamless integration of hardware and software for video editors. It's two pillars of nonlinear editing, Final Cut Pro and Adobe Premiere, are the choice of the digital video community, offering features hitherto available only to megabuck professional editing systems. Windows fans, give us our due! This is where the Mac really shines. As the Mac is to editing, so it is to output, and it applicattion DVD Studio Pro fits these editors like a hand to a glove. While Apple's and Adobe's manuals for these complex programs are good, something more practical is needed for we knuckleheads that have to have it step-by-step. To the rescue is the QuickPro guied with a no-nonsense approach, and clear instructions on how to go from resources to a finished DVD. I like all of their manuals, and this new one is no exception. It is particularly good att integrating the editor of choice with DVD Studio Pro, and pays homage to other important software to streamline the output process, such as Toast Titanium. It works as well with OS 9 as it does with OS X. The descriptions of workflow and MPEG compression are helpful to novice and intermediate user alike. Like Final Cut Pro, DVD Studio Pro is a big, complex program, and some aid to us video novices is pretty much a necessity. This Visual QuickPro guide fills the bill admirably. Buy it with the companion guide to your favorite editor.	2002-08-12
US	52885820	R2BDHH7IIP3JG3	0441172717	88529599	Dune	Books	5	0	1	N	N	Hard to put down.	An introduction by the author in my edition indicates his goals: to explore the messiah myth, to examine the relationship between politics and economics, to explore the consequence of the control of a limited resource, i.e., water as an analog of oil. The novel does this so admirably and a great deal more. Overlayed are a gripping story and some really big issues: loyalty vs. betrayal, love vs. obligation, nature vs. nurture. Strikingly, these inevitable conflicts are subjected to tension and resolution. Sure, this is space opera at its best, but it is a wonderfully written novel that can stand on its own beside traditional literature. Don't let the detractors keep you from this; they simply don't get the point.  It is a big, well written book that will enrich you whether or not you proceed on to the rest of the series.	2002-08-04
US	52885820	R3HHA420568IPQ	0965694828	451794091	In His Image (Book One of the Christ Clone Trilogy, 2nd Edition)	Books	2	16	22	N	Y	Hardly inspirational, barely readable	Considering myself spiritual AND literate may make me a commoditiy, but I think hardly a rare one. This thinly veiled telling of John's Apocalypse appeals to neither side of me. An addition to the growing list of fundamentalist novels, it will have appeal to the Wednesday night study group, but I fear, not to many more. As a Christian, I found the pseudo-scientific approach to Christ's return insulting. (Do we really think that He will come again by being cloned from cells scraped off the shroud of Turin? Really!) As a reader, I thought the writing too weak to grab me in its own right. (I never learn enough about the manchild to really care about him.) I see that it has been revised to a second edition. This must be a unique event; a novel rewritten to make the story more accurate. Per haps my expectations were too high, but I fear that Christian Literature has not found its Faulkner. Read this if neither mind nor soul need exercise,	2002-06-25
US	52885820	R2VZ9AGV42IL7K	1931313024	403089979	Between Two Worlds I (World's End)	Books	4	8	9	N	Y	The Lanny Budd saga continues	For those who follow the World's End series, this book needs little introduction. It begins the second novel of Sinclair's magnum opus (9000 pages, give or take), starting at the end of the Paris Peace Conference and following the hero through the next 4 yars. Lanny takes a lover, and Beauty stays with hers. We are witness to Europe's postwar economic woes, the rise of Italian fascism, and its conflict with the worker's movement, the book ending in the death of the liberal Matteotti, despite Lanny's attempt to save him. The hero becomes an art dealer, while his father trades the arms industry for oil. Although the prose will seem stilted to the modern reader, the characters are compelling and one who is lookikng for a historical novel of the 20th century can do  no better. Romantic fluff for sure, but the dramatic backdrop of Europe in the 20's makes it worthwhile. Certainly start with the first in the series (World's End) if you are new to the work, as the author does not waste the reader's time with a synopsis of the previous plot. Upton Sinclair has endured as the author of The Jungle, but the Lanny Budd novels were enormously popular in their time, and earned him a Pulitzer. They are especially recommended for those who are addicted to series, and looking for a wordy challenge.	2002-06-08
US	52885820	R3JIEYT5ZTNZ3Y	0465037151	286046889	Basic Freud	Books	5	12	16	N	Y	A great review of the work of an underappreciated genius	I have heard it said that there were only 5 truly great minds: Newton, Copernicus, Darwin, Einstein and Freud. All of them, in some way said that we were the victims of invisible forces and circumstances. Newton said we had to succumb to invisible gravity, binding us with mathematical precision. Copernicus told us that we were not, sad to say, the center of the universe. Einstein said that there was no absolute frame of reference, that the passage of information is bound by the speed of light. Darwin said you were another monkey, get used to it. Freud answered in his own way the most important question of all: Why do we do things we do not want to do? In other words what were the forces that determined behavior. What he discovered was the most obscure place of all: the undiscovered and unexplored realm of the unconscious that shapes and commands us all. Modern therapy has tended to minimize his influence and ignore his contribution, but we all owe him great homage for creating the fundamental concept of all modern psychology, that we are victim to internal and largely unconscious forces. Read this wonderful book and learn a new appreciation for perhaps the greatest mind that ever lived.	2002-05-27
US	52885820	R3JB96JJ1T6ZIE	1579550088	20378952	A New Kind of Science	Books	5	54	101	N	Y	A dizzying tour of natural law in rose-colored glasses	Since the 16th century, science has attempted to explain reality by the expression of a few immutable laws that seemingly govern their behavior. Newton's laws. Maxwell's equations. The Heisenberg uncertainty principle. Things behaved in a certain way because the law was embedded into them. This point of view is the expression of Christian reductionism (In the beginning was the word.....), that within the seemingly sinful random behavior of real things, that there was an expression of some deeper reality. If the hybridization of red and white sweet peas didn't result in 25% of their offspring being red, but rather 23% or 28%, it didn't matter - the principle of an autosomal recessive trait was the same, and the genetic truth was in itself unchanging. Wolfram turns science on its ear by demonstrating how reality is in some way an expression of the chaos embedded in all behaviors. Perturb some supersymmetry, and all reality is generated. The behavior of nuclei and stars, the leaf of a maple tree, the behavior of socieites. Tweak the void with a tiny change, and like a dinner-bell, voila! all reality is served up. This book is not for the faint of heart, but just about every page is provocative. One will find much to consider, and, like the good meal alluded above, digestion will take far longer than the eating.  A tour of Wolfram's software child, Mathematica may help this sometimes baffling reexpression of all science, but is not necessary. Like listening to Beethoven, in which a degree in music appreciation is unnecessary but helpful, formal mathematics opens the door of Wolfram's work a reality unavailable without it, but is in no way necessary to see the beauty of his approach. In the end, the effort of reading it is well worth it, and the hyperbole &quot;Life changing&quot; may not be out of order.	2002-05-18
US	52885820	RPFH4O2KHAXVZ	0441304834	453010069	Guilty Pleasures (Anita Blake Vampire Hunter)	Books	4	1	1	N	Y	Buffy with bite	Unwillingly coerced by the master vampire Jean-Claude, Anita must seek out the loathesome individual who is killing vampires in the city, a task which stretches the reader's imagination as well as the wits of our heroine. Let's face it, this is not the stuff a Booker Prize is made of, but one does not live on creme brulee all the time, nor struggle over Proust. Still, with summer coming, there is nothing I could think better than to sit by the pool with a gin and tonic and an Anita Blake novel. Graphic but not excessively so, sensual but not pornographic, I wouldn't have angina if I found one of my adolescents reading it. Read it in an afternoon while you get a tan.	2002-03-27
US	52885820	R2QRGDJY49QGJH	0060175869	664906388	From Dawn to Decadence: 1500 to the Present: 500 Years of Western Cultural Life	Books	4	9	16	N	N	Grand subject, disappointing writing	Mr. Barzun is one of America's grand intellectuals and original thinkers. I, therefore read his latest book, an ambitious project,to say the least, with much anticipation. While his approach is a refreshing departure from  the relentless recounting of facts and events that characterize most  history, I found his colloquial style distracting. Too, grammatical errors  in the text left me with the impression that the manuscript had been  published as dicated, without revision. After finishing it, I can only give  this book 4 stars. It is brilliantly concieved, and magnificently executed,  but in publication was separated from greatness by perhaps one more pass  under the editor's pencil.	2000-07-24
