US	52885767	R3UE015AAM6DU4	0312341156	246588173	Where the Right Went Wrong: How Neoconservatives Subverted the Reagan Revolution and Hijacked the Bush Presidency	Books	5	46	56	N	N	Absolutely devestating about Bush	I, a bleeding heart liberal of the worst sort, never thought that I would be recommending a book by Patrick Buchanan.  But he has written as scorching an indictment of President Bush as any liberal could hope to do.   And it is all the more telling because it is written from the standpoint of a conservative. <br />In 2000, Bush's campaign advisors positioned him against Clinton/Gore as a true foreign policy conservative.  Bush criticized their interventionism, the idea that we are \\"the indispensable nation\\", and he promised a more \\"humble\\" foreign policy.   <br /> <br />In perhaps the biggest flip-flop in our foreign policy history, now Bush dictates to the world:  \\"Containment is not possible when unbalanced dictators can deliver those weapons on missiles.... If we wait for threats to fully materialize, we will have waited too long.\\"  Buchanan points out that containment worked with unbalanced dictators like Stalin and Mao.  I would add that if we can wage preemptive war on the basis of a threat of a threat, who can we not attack?  As Lincoln said in 1848:   <br /> <br />Allow a President to invade a neighboring nation, whenever he shall deem it necessary to repel an invasion, and you allow him to do so, whenever he may choose to say he deems it necessary for such a purpose-and you allow him to make war at pleasure.   If, today, he should choose to say he thinks it necessary to invade Canada, to prevent the British from invading us, how could you stop him.\\"  (Letter to W. H. Herndon, Feb. 15, 1848) <br /> <br />Surely, there is something in Canada's defense budget that could be a not fully materialized threat.   <br /> <br />Bush states:  \\"America has, and intends to keep, military strengths beyond challenge-thereby making the destabilizing arms races of other eras pointless....\\" Buchanan comments:  \\"This was breathtaking.  President Bush was saying to Beijing, Moscow, New Delhi:  You may compete with us in trade, but we will not allow you to increase your strengthto where it challenges America's power.\\"    <br /> <br />Bush also said \\"Moral truth is the same in every culture, in every time and in every place.\\"  Buchanan points out that Bush is in closer agreement with Muslim fundamentalists on issues of premarital sex, abortion, and gay unions than he is with many Americans.   <br /> <br />Bush, I would add, has clearly not thought through the implications of his statements, and is entirely ignorant of history and other cultures.  He is so ignorant that he doesn't even know he is ignorant. <br /> <br />But how did this flip-flop come about?  Buchanan states \\"Before 2000, Bush seemed a tabula rasa, a blank slate on foreign policy.... [He] had no experience in foreign policy and had exhibited zero interest.... [H]e confused Slovenia with Slovakia, referred to Greeks as \\"Grecians,\\" and flunked a pop quiz when an interviewer asked him to name the leaders of four major nations.\\" <br /> <br />So when he became president, his neoconservative advisors, principally Condoleezza Rice, Paul Wolfowitz, and Richard Perle, hijacked him.  Buchanan quotes Perle:  \\"The first time I met Bush 43, I knew he was different....One, he didn't know very much.   The other was that he had the confidence to ask questions that revealed he didn't know very much.\\"  So it was easy for his neocon advisors to fill up his empty head with their ideas.  And their ideas were for an activist foreign policy far beyond what any Democratic Wilsonian had ever dreamed of.  Iraq was just to be the beginning.  Regime change in Syria, Saudi Arabia and Egypt were on the plate.   If you don't believe me, read the book. <br /> <br />I think Perle was wrong one point.  Bush's lack of embarrassment was not due to self-confidence.  He just did not care about being ignorant.  Learning, scholarship, careful consideration of all points of view are just not things he cares about.  So why be embarrassed? <br /> <br />Buchanan is equally devastating on the neocon budget.  Democratsmay be \\"tax and spend\\" fools, but Bush spends even more and cuts taxes.  As Cheney says:  \\"Deficits don't matter.\\"  What does Bush know or care?   I have always believed in free trade, but he makes a strong case against it.  Can we really afford in the long run to turn our workers into Wal-Mart clerks?  The issue needs to be carefully reconsidered.  But so long as our corporations are fat and happy, don't expect Bush to give it a thought. <br /> <br />When Buchanan gets on typical conservative hot buttons, he can get ridiculous.  I don't think NAFTA is responsible Mexico's drug trade.  And I don't think there is any evidence that marijuana poisons the minds and souls of American youth.  Nor will same-sex marriage lead to the collapse of our nation.  But there is a great deal of substance in this book, and many of his ideas deserve careful attention. <br />	2004-08-30
US	52885767	R3B66RGNJV6TY	1400061849	714772964	Father Joe: The Man Who Saved My Soul	Books	5	5	7	N	N	Father Joe Really Listened to Jesus	Father Joe really did listen to Jesus:  He loved his fellow men and women.  The great sin was not sex related, but love related.  Don't be selfish and hurt someone.  He told Tony Hendra in the 1950's (!!!) that sex outside of marriage was probably not a mortal sin.  The implication was that it depended upon what could result from it:  just a hangover or the breakup of a marriage.   <br /> <br />Most Christians worry about specific rules, not the spirit behind them.  Father Joe took Jesus seriously when he said that the Sabbath was made for man, not man for the Sabbath. <br /> <br />For a while, despite Father Joe's spiritual guidance, Hendra not only did not improve his relationship to God, but it got worse.  Joe (and God) never gave up on him.  Such is the message of hope for everyone.  (I hope that Hendra exagerates how nasty he was to others, but it hardly matters, in the end.) <br /> <br />There are few believer in God, Jew, Christian, or Muslim, who cannot learn from this book.  I would recommend it to anyone who tries to follow a spiritual path.	2004-08-30
US	52885767	R2N9REYKATNHBM	0895260174	829131114	Unfit For Command: Swift Boat Veterans Speak Out Against John Kerry	Books	1	10	22	N	N	Unfit for history	It is worth knowing a bit about the authors of this book.  Corsi has said some interesting things that show a bit about his character: <br />--Last year on freerepublic.com, Corsi stated: \\"Islam is a peaceful religion - just as long as the women are beaten, the boys buggered and the infidels are killed.\\"  <br />--He has also stated about the Catholic Church: \\"So this is what the last days of the Catholic Church are going to look like. Buggering boys undermines the moral base and the lawyers rip the gold off the Vatican altars. We may get one more Pope, when this senile one dies, but that's probably about it.\\"  <br />In March, also in freerepublic.com, Corsi turned anti-Semitic, while discussing Sen. Kerry: \\"After he married TerRAHsa, (sic) didn't John Kerry begin practicing Judaism? He also has paternal grandparents that were Jewish. What religion is John Kerry?\\"  <br />He has also suggested that Hillary Clinton is a lesbian. <br />In fairness, I should say that Corsi describes himself as a devout Catholic and says his comments were jokes.   Even if \\"jokes\\" they say a lot about the man.    <br />O'Neil has made a career of being anti-Kerry.  Joe Klein in the January 5, New Yorker discussed with Nixon's advisor Chuck Colson how O'Neil came to prominence as the Nixon administration's answer to Kerry.   Colson said that Kerry was \\"articulate\\" and a \\"credible leader\\" of anti-war Vietnam veterans.  So they needed a counterweight.  \\"We found a vet named John O'Neill and formed a group called Vietnam Veterans for a Just Peace.   We had O'Neill meet the President, and we did everything we could do to boost his group.\\"  O'Neil has been riding the coattails of conservative Republicans ever since. <br />As to the contents of the book, I will only say that it is a principle of historical research that documents and testimony are more reliable the closer they are to the events described, and the farther away from the events, the less reliable they are.  Contrast this book with the evaluations of Kerry made by his superiors in Vietnam. The documents, which are what any historian worth his/her salt would rely upon, highly praise Kerry, as do the men who served on his boat. <br /> The case of Larry Thurlow, who commanded a Navy Swift boat alongside Kerry in Vietnam, is a good example of the value of documents.  Thurlow has strongly disputed Kerry's claim that the flotilla came under fire in Viet Cong-controlled territory on March 13, 1969, the day that Kerry won a Bronze Star. <br /> But Thurlow's military records were released The Washington Post under the Freedom of Information Act.  (Thurlow refused to make them available himself.  Small wonder.)  They contain several references to \\"enemy small arms and automatic weapons fire\\" directed at \\"all units\\" of the five-boat flotIlla. Thurlow won his own Bronze Star that day, and the citation praises him for providing assistance to a damaged Swift boat \\"despite enemy bullets flying about him.\\"  In other words, Thurlow's own records support Kerry exactly. <br /> <br />The only charitable conclusion is that Thurlow's memory has failed him.  Which would be easier to believe if his had not tried to keep his own medal citations private.  And one might think that a reasonable person would have checked his own records to refresh his mind on what happened 30 years ago before making such an extreme charge about a presidental candidate.   <br /> <br /> <br /> <br />	2004-08-22
US	52885767	RN7NFA7C7E9MI	1582402000	9956773	Age of Bronze, Vol. 1: A Thousand Ships	Books	5	3	5	N	Y	Entertaining and accurate	I cam accross this book first in a review in Archeology Magazine.  The reviewer gave it high marks for knowledge of  what Homer's Greece and Troy (probably) looked like.  So it is a great source of visual knowledge.  Pity they did not hire Shanower to do some scene sketches of the movie \\"Troy.\\"	2004-08-19
US	52885767	R3N5E8OAQF5SA1	1899579184	583789080	RECORD OF AWAKENING	Books	5	0	1	N	N	A Westerner Walks in the Buddha's Steps	I think that this is one of the most useful and original books on Buddhism that I have read in a long time.  The author is a matter-of-fact Englishman who has achieved great spiritual insight, and does about as much as anyone can to explain the inexplicable.  He starts at the beginning of his own journey, and describes what he realized and how his realization grew as time went on.   He does this in simple English, and then tries to show how it fits in with traditional Buddhist theory. <br /> <br /> This makes his work substantially different from most Buddhist literature, which, whether written by Asians or Westerners, which starts with the intellectual framework developed in another age and in another culture. <br /> <br />Looking at what I have written above, I feel some doubt that I have described the book quite correctly.  But it is the best I can do.   <br /> <br />In any case, A record of Awakening is very original and should be helpful to anyone on the path.  I cannot recommend it highly enough.  <br />	2004-07-28
US	52885767	R2X7BF61I1M5XA	0805056866	410651536	Eisenhower: A Soldier's Life	Books	1	14	19	N	N	Filled with errors, minor and major	Carlo D'Este's book on the Normandy invasion, Decision in Normandy, is first rate, and there is no competition, so far as I know, to his thorough history, Fatal Decision, Anzio and the Battle for Rome. So I eagerly looked forward to his new biography of General Eisenhower. Extremely disappointing.<br />One might expect a book of 822 pages by a West Pointer to be good on military analysis.  But this book is not.  For example, D'Este points out that planning for the invasions of Sicily and Italy was hampered by the fact that the army, navy, and air forces had headquarters 600 miles apart from each other.  But was this Eisenhower's fault?  He had enough staff experience that he could have hardly failed to be aware of the problem, so why did he do nothing about it?  Or did he try and fail to budge his subordinants?  It would be nice to know how or why Eisenhower allowed this obvious problem to go unsolved.<br />I have never encountered a book with so many errors. D'Este was very poorly served by his editor, if in fact he had one. (He says he did. And a proof reader too.) Perhaps this book is proof that a spell-check on a word processor does not replace an editor. Some examples:<br /> --'When not working, young Eisenhower could be found sipping a sundae at Case's Department Store'.' (Page 23) Since when do you sip a 'sundae'?<br /> --'Indeed, were it not for his glowing reputation gained during the maneuvers, it is arguable that Eisenhower's name would not have appeared at all, had it not been for Mark Clark's persistence in extolling his friend.' (p.82) This is about the worst sentence I have seen since I stopped teaching. Did Eisenhower's name appear because of his glowing reputation or because of Clark's persistence?<br /> --'[T] he Japanese, whose seizure of Burma, Hong Kong, and Malaya culminated in the greatest humiliation in the history of the British army'surpassing even Dunkirk'when Singapore fell'.' (p.294) It is true that the fall of Singapore was arguably theBritish army's greatest humiliation, but few, if any, think that Dunkirk was a humiliation at all, much less in the same league as Singapore. Churchill had to remind the elated British people that wars are not won by evacuations. <br /> --'Nylon stockings'were unobtainable [in the U.K.]; instead young British lasses would draw a line up the back of their legs to simulate the seams.' (p.316) Actually, 'young British lasses' (What were older women doing?) had never seen a nylon stocking. They were not introduced in the U.S. until October 1939, and not commonly available here until 1940, by which time Britain was at war. Few if any would have been exported. By the end of the year they were not available in the U.S. either, all nylon going to rearmament. <br /> <br /> --'It illegality [of a cash gift from the President of the Philippines] did not prevent MacArthur from accepting a payment of $500,000 in March 1942'.However questionable these payments, they were nevertheless legal under the terms by which MacArthur went to the Philippines in 1935.' (p.735) In all my reading, I cannot recall another instance of an author contradicting himself in his very next sentence. Was the payment illegal or not?<br /> --'The American Grant tank, with its puny 37-mm gun, was helpless in battle against the German Mark IV panzer; only the eventual arrival of the new Sherman tank would even the paying field somewhat.' (.370) I saved the best for last. This really takes the cake. The Grant had BOTH a 37-mm AND a 75-mm gun. This guy was an officer in the army. He should not make this kind of mistake. I thought that perhaps he meant to say 'Stuart' tank, which did only have a 37-mm gun. But it was just a scout tank, never intended to be a main battle tank. Eventually the Sherman did replace the Grant, while the Stuart was used to the end of the war. The whole sentence does not make any sense if you replace 'Grant' with 'Stuart.' (Incidentally, the British called Stuarts 'honeys,' because they were so reliable. It is kind of weird to read in British histories: 'And then 10 honeys formed a line of battle.')<br />Further, if D'Este were at all familiar with the history of the desert war before the coming of the Americans, he would know that the Germans were very unpleasantly surprised when they encountered the first Grants in battle. Both the Brits and the Germans considered the Grant superior to anything the British produced, which admittedly is not saying much. While the Grant left much to be desired, it was not such a bad tank.	2002-09-03
US	52885767	R1URGUXAVTS5Q6	0700611878	361615757	Inside Hitler's High Command (Modern War Studies)	Books	4	6	12	N	N	High Command?  What high command?	This is an excellent study of the highest levels of the German Army during WWII.  But I think the main lesson is that there was no high command, at least in the sense the British and the Americans had one.  Hitler and the generals around him spent their time micromanaging the Eastern Front with occasional interference in African and European battles.  Hitler acted as if he were the counterpart of Eisenhower, not Marshall or Brooke.  It is as if Rosevelt were to have sent Eisenhower daily detailed instructions on where to attack and what to defend.<br />The problem was only partially Hitler's.  The Germans never really created a staff to manage a global conflict.  Hadler resented Hitler's inferference, but because it was usually stupid, not because Hitler should have been managing the war, not the battles.  The Germans were superb at what they considered the \\"operational\\" level of command--the control of armies on a single battlefield.  But they never looked at the \\"big picture.\\"<br />The book also proves that the German army high command, such as it was, had serious failings.  They simply did not understand the logistics of a campaign as vast as the Eastern Front.  Nor did they have the intelligence gathering capacity to estimate what they were getting into when they attacked the Soviet Union.  Worse, they did not even realize their problems.<br />This book can teach a lot about why people frequently fail to understand and act upon hard facts.  Learning this can help avoid future disasters of any sort.	2002-06-04
US	52885767	R36OM4REWSI8G4	0806125810	548614408	Hitler's Panzers East: World War II Reinterpreted	Books	2	8	25	N	N	Monday Morning Quarterbacking	The author's thesis is that the Germans could have won the war against the USSR if they had attacked for Moscow.  This is what the German generals wanted to do, but Hitler thought he knew more than the professionals.  Obviously a better strategy gives a better chance of success, but the main problems, the sheer size of the USSR, the number of men available to the Red Army as reinforcements, the Russian winter and massive Soviet industrial plant safe in the Urals would have remained.<br />I would render the Scot's verdict:  unproved.	2002-05-22
US	52885767	RE8KL9XG0NWVR	0670872822	356377311	American Colonies (Penguin History of the United States)	Books	5	32	39	N	N	Gibbon was Right	More than any other history book I have read this book confirms Edward Gibbon's dictum that history is \\"little more than the register of crimes, follies, ad misfortunes of mankind.  It is a history of the Americas starting with  pre-Columbian times and continuing until about the time of the American Revolution.  While I am hardly an expert, the author is very familiar with the literature on his topic.  His opinions seem well reasoned to me and are consistent with what I do know independent of this book.     <br />The overwhelming impression of this book is just how nasty brutish and short life was in the fifteenth and sixteenth centuries in both Europe and the Americans.   How badly the Native Americans were treated is common knowledge.   But the desperation behind the greed and cruelty of the Europeans is less well known.  Most of the people who came to the \\"new world\\" were driven by poverty to risk all with the odds against them.   It is hard to believe that anything as wonderful as the United States could have had such terrible beginnings.  <br />The worst thing the Europeans did was done accidentally.  Europeans brought diseases with them and infected the Native Americans.  The author cites new research and studies by anthropologists that suggest that in the century after Columbus the native population of about 50 million shrank by 90%.   This is more than anything else what made the cruel conquest possible.  And the author says that the English learned how to treat the Indians by their conquest of Ireland.  Until the Nazis unleashed the holocaust, history may have known horrors equal to the conquest of Ireland, but nothing worse.<br />The Europeans were little better to each other.  In an early settlement on the Chesapeake one man who stole some oats had a rod thrust through his tongue and then he was chained to a tree to die from starvation.  This shows how close to the edge of starvation the colony must have been to resort to such drastic actions.   <br />Most people who emigrated from England were bound to four years service before they got their freedom.  Not many lived long enough to gain it.  Fewer still became rich.  But there were more impoverished laborers in England to replace them.   And there were the horrors of slavery-mostly black African, since Indians died too quickly.<BR> <BR>The only decent story is that of William Penn and the Quakers.  Under his guidance they dealt fairly with the Indians near them and paid a fair price for their land, of which they had plenty to sell due to smallpox.  In Barbados one Quaker was killed and the rest expelled for having the temerity to teach black African slaves the Christian gospel-and this at a time when almost everyone believed Christian faith was the only escape from eternal damnation.  But the plantation owners did not want to have to deal with Christian slaves-they might feel they had to treat them better.  French Jesuits and Spanish Franciscans also tried to convert the Indians, but with little success.<br />If you want to know the early history of the Americas this book is the place to start.  But the story has few bright parts.  It is story of greed and death.   Try to have compassion for the invaders.  Their plight was little better than that of the conquered.	2002-05-22
US	52885767	R2443CZQ3Q6INJ	0520228359	338621790	Augustine of Hippo: A Biography, Revised Edition with a New Epilogue	Books	5	11	11	N	N	Best Biography I have Read--Period.	Peter Brown's biography of Augustine is the best biography of anyone I have read.  It explains the slowly evolving thought of a brilliant and complex thinker against a backdrop of culture, history, and intellectual currents of the day.  What more could you want?	2002-05-17
US	52885767	R102WIHJDX80FK	1582431132	197251634	Shoes Outside the Door: Desire, Devotion and Excess at San Francisco Zen Center	Books	5	55	57	N	Y	Oral History of a Crisis in Zen	Buddhism is here to stay, and this book will have historical importance.  It recounts the crisis that nearly destroyed the first Buddhist monastery ever built outside of Asia, in the 2,300 year history of that religion, after the death of its founder, Shunryu Suzuki Roshi.  I hope that the author will put his notes and taped interviews in some university library, since historians of religion will want to consult them in the coming centuries.  Wouldn't scholars love to have first person accounts of the disputes mentioned in Acts of the Apostles between Peter and Paul about admitting gentiles to the Christian community?<br />When I first began to read about Buddhism in the early 70's, I thought that a Zen master was a type of saint.  He or she could make mistakes, but was infinitely compassionate, above fleshy desires, and as enlightened as the Buddha.  But facts in the last thirty years show that Zen masters (and teachers in other traditions) can be insensitive to others' needs, have plenty of desire, and have (so far as one can judge) less than perfect understanding.  One can pass many koans or receive transmission from a certified Zen master and still be a jerk--or worse.  This book documents the rise and fall of one such man, Richard Baker, the handpicked successor to Suzuki Roshi.<br />Baker, although married, had affairs with female students, ignored the monastic community to hobnob with the rich and famous, and started zen related businesses that, instead of providing money for the zen community, turned into money and time sponges only profitable because the monks provided practically free labor.  People were working so hard in the businesses that they had little time or energy for meditation.  Finally, Baker had one affair too many and people realized that they were slaving to provide him with a nice BMW, three houses, and a great lifestyle. He was asked to resign and the members of the community, after some initial floundering, hired management consultants, sold the businesses, and put limits on the power of future leaders.  The men and women of the zen community deserve great credit for preserving Suzuki Roshi's legacy this crisis could have destroyed it.<br />Another lesson of this book and others such as After Zen by Janwillem van de Wetering or Ambivalent Zen by Lawrence Shainberg is that spiritual wisdom and worldly wisdom (or practical common sense) are not the same.  The virtues of Mother Teresa and Abraham Lincoln seldom occur in the same person.  Even if Baker was a complete opportunist taking a sweet deal for all it was worth, he should have realized that he was living to high on the hog for it to last.<br /><br />This book should be read by any Westerner who has or is thinking of attaching himself to a Buddhist teacher, or for that matter, any type of guru.  The book teaches that faith in a teacher must be provisional and that you must not surrender your own judgment.  Reason is our greatest gift from God, and we must never fail to use it.  The Buddha himself said that we should believe not because he said something but because we find it true in our own lives and practice and to work out our salvation with diligence.  Don't forget that.ts, sold the businesses, and put limits on the power of future leaders.  The men and women of the zen community deserve great credit for preserving Suzuki Roshi's legacy this crisis could have destroyed it.<br />Another lesson of this book and others such as After Zen by Janwillem van de Wetering or Ambivalent Zen by Lawrence Shainberg is that spiritual wisdom and worldly wisdom (or practical common sense) are not the same.  The virtues of Mother Teresa and Abraham Lincoln seldom occur in the same person.  Even if Baker was a complete opportunist taking a sweet deal for all it was worth, he should have realized that he was living to high on the hog for it to last.<BR>     <BR>This book should be read by any Westerner who has or is thinking of attaching himself to a Buddhist teacher, or for that matter, any type of guru.  The book teaches that faith in a teacher must be provisional and that you must not surrender your own judgment.  Reason is our greatest gift from God, and we must never fail to use it.  The Buddha himself said that we should believe not because he said something but because we find it true in our own lives and practice and to work out our salvation with diligence.  Don't forget that.	2002-04-07
US	52885767	R3NBB5RWPV6NS5	0767901053	370701760	Crooked Cucumber: The Life and Zen Teaching of Shunryu Suzuki	Books	5	24	25	N	N	Worts and All--The Biography of a Man of Zen	Shunryu Suzuki in not a saint in this book, or at least he does not become one until late in his life after a lot of effort.  He was, by his own admission, a so-so father and husband.  He had a terrible temper and it is astonishing that someone could combine such mindfulness with such absentmindedness.  The latter trait caused Suzuki's wife such a &quot;dark night of the soul&quot; that it brought her to enlightenment.  (And no, he wasn't planning it that way--he just forgot a funeral.)<br />This book is a labor of love by David Chadwick, but love never gets in the way of truth.<br />One will also learn much of Suzuki's zen from Suzuki's own comments on things as they happen around him.  Anyone interested in zen, Japanese culture, or fine biography should appreciate this book.	2002-04-07
US	52885767	RXJUT695RWU9D	0940322064	166402917	The Mystery of Consciousness	Books	4	19	25	N	Y	Consciousness remains a mystery	This book will be of interest to anyone curious about Artificial Intelligence (AI) or the philosophy of mind.  It consists of chapters that were originally reviews of books, somewhat rewritten and expanded for this book. Searle believes that consciousness is an emmergent property of the brain, but that, so far at least, AI and attempts to explain the brain as a sort of computer are failures. <BR>     Two chapters review the essence, I think of Searle's position.  In his review/commentary on Roger Penrose's Shadows of the Mind, he takes issue with Penrose's position that computers cannot possibly be intelligent or conscious like humans or human brains.  Penrose claim is based in part of Godel's famous proof that there will always be improvable theorems in any set of mathematical axioms.  In short, any formal mathematical system is incomplete because there are true but unprovable statements in it.  A computer, which in the final analysis can do nothing but binary addition and subtraction can never know Godel's Proof as we know it.  We can understand this because our brains can do something other than arithmetic.    Searle says that even if Penrose is right, and not too many experts are convinced by his logic, that it should be possible to program computers to simulate whatever it is that brains do that allows us to be able to comprehend Godel's Proof.  These seems to me to be an empirical question, but I would think that a computer made of silicon should be able to duplicate whatever a brain, which is essentially made of Jell-O, can do.<BR> In Consciousness Explained Daniel Dennett takes the position that there is no such thing as consciousness.  When we thinkwe are conscious of a feeling of pain, we are mistaken!  At least this is what Searle says that Dennett claims.  Since Dennett wrote a reply to Searle, which is included in the book, and does not deny it, it would seem to be so.  Dennett claims inner states are \\"unconfirmable\\" and \\"unverifiable\\" and therefore \\"just obscurantism.\\"   From the standpoint of scientific theory he may well be correct.  Scientists suppose that human behavior can be explained as a result of brain functioning.  It does not seem that a complete description of brain function needs anything more than a description of the parts of the brain and how they work.  Everything I could hope to know about a brain would be equally true if the brain was no more conscious than my computer or chair.  A scientist can say about consciousness what Laplaise said about God:  I have no need of that hypothesis.<BR>     But the fly in the ointment is that I, at least, am conscious.  And I will do you the courtesy of supposing you are also, but I cannot know that with the same certainty.<BR> And that is the great mystery of consciousness.  Is it an emergent property of brain function as Searle believes?  Is it part of our immortal soul as most theologians claim?  Is it part of the Mind of God as mystics experience it?  There is really no way to know.	2002-04-03
US	52885767	RRX6JTIKIV9HT	070060958X	707914198	The GI Offensive in Europe: The Triumph of American Infantry Divisions, 1941-1945	Books	5	8	9	N	N	An important analysis of the US Army in WW II	For the serious student, this book should be read along with [similuar book]Both deal with the same topic, but there is surprisingly little overlap.<br />I agree with most in the review ...but I think that he and other reviewers exagerate the degree of degeneration of the German army that the US faced in France.  The Germans were unsurpassed trainers of soldiers and industry was still turning out sufficient quantities of weapons of all sorts.  It was only after D-Day in France that tatical airpower began to make itself felt.  Until then the main contribution of strategic air was the \\"transportation plan\\" which was designed to knockout the French transporation network in order to limit the ability of the Germans to bring reinforcements to the invasion site.  It was quite successful.<br />The soldiers that the U.S. Army faced were as good as any the Germans produced in most cases.  (There were some \\"ground-holding\\" divisions of overage or semi-invalid men.)  Equipment had improved since 1941 and many tactical lessons had been learned.<br />But there was no doubt that the western allies could produce overwhelming force, and if properly applied, victory was certain.  The catch is:  if properly applied.  It was by no means inevitable that force would be properly applied.  The British outnumbered Rommel in tanks in the North Afican desert on many occasions but managed to lose.  Rommel said to one captured British officer that it did not matter if he was outnumbered 2 to 1 in tanks overall if at the point of attack he outnumbered the British 2 to 1.  If we had fought as badly as the British did before Montgomery took over, we would have lost.  <br />To win required learning from our mistakes, a willingness to improvise, inititive at all levels down to private and, of course, great courage.  Our soldiers had what it took.	2002-03-28
US	52885767	R6GA9ONP39FQ5	0700607447	16969931	Closing With the Enemy: How GIs Fought the War in Europe, 1944-1945 (Modern War Studies)	Books	5	12	12	N	N	Explains as advertised--How the GIs fought	This book fills a real need.  Most histories can tell you where and why Bradley, Patton, and so forth did well or ill.  Personal memoirs tell about events as one man saw them, but not much about how the guys were trying to act as a team in battle.  This book explains how regiments, companies and platoons fought in a variety of conditions, hedgerows, forests, and mountains.  It also shows the inititive displayed at all ranks down to private to solve problems.  It can only increase your appreciation of &quot;The Greatest Generation&quot; and is a corrective to accounts depreciating the qualities of US infantry.	2002-03-27
US	52885767	R1N2M6SW5EDE8Z	0394583450	474845775	In The Shadow Of The Reich	Books	4	45	49	N	N	A son reacts to a terrible father	Niklas Frank hates his father, and few sons could have better reason.  Hans Frank was one of Hitler's goons and ruled Poland during the war.  He was hanged at Nuremberg.  Had I been his attorney at the war crimes trial, (And I am an attorney.) I would have argued that Frank was a figurehead and never had any real power for good or ill.  He was no Albert Speer.  While this line of defense would not have been likely to succeed, it would have been minimally better that his real defense, which was that he was really an enlighted ruler and did a great job for the Poles under difficult war time conditions.  Unfortunately for Frank, his official diary and war time speaches were available.  In one of them he said that he didn't care if the Poles were made into mincemeat after the war ended their usefulness.  <br />The book is interesting both as a biography of Hans Frank, and as a psycological study of Niklas.  So far as I can judge, it is accurate in its facts and opinions; but I cannot claim any expertese.  <br />I would reconmend the book to anyone with a interest in Hans Frank, the Government General, or the psychology of children of German war criminals.	2002-02-02
US	52885767	R1064K4FRURZXO	0394529154	381866424	Albert Speer: His Battle With Truth	Books	5	3	4	N	N	How we deceive ourselves	While this book is essential to anyone interested in Speer, it should be read also by anyone interested in the art or psychology of deception.  For all his public breast-beating, Speer never really came 100% clean with the public, his friends, or himself.  He knew more about slavery and murder than he ever let on.<br />Since none of us are perfectly honest with or about ourselves, we can all learn a lesson here, even though, thanks be to God, we have nothing half so terrible to cover up.	2002-02-02
US	52885767	R2P3UVO7KMWR80	0385494483	494859874	001: The Death of the Messiah: From Gethsemane to the Grave: Commentary on the Passion Narrative in the Four Gospels	Books	5	14	21	N	N	A Lifetime of Learning	[Note:  By mistake I had previously given this book one star.  Someone kindly pointed this out to me, so I am correcting this.  I am also adding a third paragraph.]<br />There is no doubt that these two volumns are absolutely required reading for anyone with a serious interest in the death of Jesus. Father Brown brought to bear a lifetime of study and reflection on his subject. <br />It should perhaps be noted that his book is fully within the Roman Catholic tradition. Do not expect to find many conclusions that differ greatly from traditional Catholic teachings on the subject.  Students who are influenced by scholars such as the Jesus Seminar or John Dominic Crossan will find much to disagree with.<br />But even the most liberal scholars will have to take this book very seriously.  The Jesus Seminar and Crossan can argue very reasonably about what percentage of all the words attributed to Jesus are really his.  But few doubt that Jesus was crucifed.  (Muslims, whose beliefs are based upon what the Koran says about the subject, are the only reasonable persons who think that Jesus was not killed on the cross.  The others are crackpots.)   So there must have been some sort of trial, Jews confering with each other and with Romans, and so forth.  Thus there is, I think, more possibility for agreement here than on some other issues.	2001-11-06
US	52885767	R1VLAFXHW9WTZB	067400163X	797622772	A War To Be Won: Fighting the Second World War	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Best Summary Military History	As a one volumn summary of the fighting of WWII, this book has no equals, far surpassing John Keegan's popular history of the war.   The discriptions of the campaigns and battles are clear and the evaluations and conclusions are well reasoned although occasionally controversial.  The authors, correctly in my opinion, conclude that Bradley was hardly a &quot;GI's general&quot; as he is usually discribed.  Most important, they suggest that Montgomery may have intentially failed to clear the approaches to Antwerp so that there would be only enough fuel for his army to advance.  If true, he should have been shot for treason.<br />One reader compared this book favorably to A World at Arms.  This I think is not quite correct.  The latter book is a political/economic analysis, and it has no peer.  I expect it will be in print, in 2100 C.E.  It is not a military history and not comparable to this book.  Buy both!	2001-10-30
US	52885767	RUDCWA80ZL6OD	0292731027	820555488	Texian Iliad: A Military History of the Texas Revolution	Books	5	33	37	N	N	An objective account of the Texas revolution	If all you know of the Alamo is via Walt Disney and John Wayne, you will probably find this book a shocker. Both the Mexicans and the Texians were courageous and cowardly, brilliant and stupid by turns. This book is real history. But in the final analysis, real people are better heros than Hollywood images.<br />I can't claim to have read every book written on the Alamo battle, but I have read a few.  This book is the best I know of.	2001-08-04
US	52885767	R3SYH24Y37B916	083480137X	452309025	A Zen Wave: Basho's Haiku & Zen	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Zen, poetry, and (worthwhile) literary criticism	Aitken Roshi is considered by many the dean of American Zen masters.  In this book he combines his Zen insight with his university training in liturature to explain Basho's poetry.  The book should be read by anyone interested in Zen, and perhaps even more by anyone interested in poetry or literary criticism, since it shows what a wise person can do improve our reading of poetry.  If you love Basho or haiku in general, then this book is a must have.  <br />It is terrible that this book is out of print.	2001-07-03
US	52885767	R3GJDKJRGP0NES	080782609X	683704187	Omaha Beach: A Flawed Victory	Books	5	28	31	N	N	Absolutely essential reading for the serious student of WWII	This book asks why Omaha Beach was so close to a defeat, and provides the first new answer in 40 years, and the best answer ever.  Lewis's analysis will, I think, become part of the &quot;conventional knowledge&quot; of 21st century history, and has throughly refuted many earlier attempts to explain why we nearly lost.<br /> In one sentence, the D-day plan was a poor compromise between British and American seaborn invasion methods, cooperation between army and navy was less than outstanding, and there was over reliance on airpower to soften the beaches, a job for which it was untrained, untested, and unenthusiastic.  At Omaha, the bombs missed the targets entirely.  <br />The book also has many lessons for a manager in a large organizations, if one is willing to think about the larger implications of planning in large organizations.<br />One reviewer stated that the book seemed poorly researched.  I couldn't agree less.  Lewis has thoroughly researched the &quot;paper trail&quot; leading to D-Day--much more so, I suspect, than anyone before him.	2001-06-13
US	52885767	RFKEG6JM5Y44J	0674885252	168947879	Thomas More: A Biography	Books	5	6	13	N	N	Still the best biography of Thomas More	Marius presents More &quot;worts and all&quot; and he certainly did have some worts by moderern standards, such as advocating the burning of heretics.  But as John Adams said, facts are stuborn things.  More wrote and did things of which we cannot approve--as well as a great many things of immortal value.  Unlike us, those in times past were frequently wrong and misguided.  We must learn to admire More (and any other historical personage, such as Jefferson) despite their flaws.<br />Marius presents More in the intellectual context of the day.  The reader will learn as much about the Reformation as More, and you will learn More than in all the other biographies combined.<br />By no means do I agree with all of Marius's judgements, but he gives you the facts and you can think for yourself.  No More can a serious biogapher do.	2001-06-13
US	52885767	R3TYIQYR462GJZ	0684813637	747139631	John Adams	Books	5	14	17	N	N	Resurects and almost forgotten Founding Father	Well, that is a bit of an exageration, but I don't think that that John Adams is very well known to even that part of the public that reads history for pleasure.  This book will certainly change that, and hopefully we will learn to say his name in the same breath as Jefferson, Franklin, and Washington.  He was no less important and deserves no less fame.  An he certainly is more lovable as a man than I had ever thought.  Next to Franklin, there is no founding father I more regret never having been able to meet.<br />The book is short on his political thought and writings, which are an extremely important contribution to American political theory, but the book gives the general idea.  It leaves one thirsting to know more.	2001-06-13
US	52885767	R2N5N60FKFJLU6	0304352977	702827054	Fighting the Desert Fox: Rommel's Campaigns in North Africa April 1941 to August 1942	Books	3	2	2	N	Y	Hard to evaluate	The book reads like a well researched account of the battles.  But there are no footnotes, no bibligraphy, and not even a bio of the author.  So I enjoyed reading it, but it can harldly be considered authoratative.<br />The fact that there are mistakes like saying the Rommell first met Hitler during the Polish campaign do not make me feel better about the book.	2000-09-28
US	52885767	R23IFF3M84A68O	0521443172	428237087	A World at Arms: A Global History of World War II	Books	5	12	12	N	N	Essential Reading on WWII	I just wish to note that this is not a military history of the war.  It is  a politial/social/economic history.  But if you want to understand the  second world war it is absolutely essential reading.  I think it would take  years to learn from other sources the wealth of material that Weinberg has  distilled into his magnum opus.	2000-09-08
US	52885767	R12Q3RX0IT2Q8Z	0375400524	841119426	The First World War	Books	2	0	3	N	N	Not up to Keegan's usual standard.	Keegan could have used some help from his editors.  The maps are next to useless.  For example, the map accompanying the text on why the German right was extended and had to retreat during the first stage of the war  shows nothing even suggesting the military problem.  Keegan states that  many people have suggested ways that the always failing attacks against  dug-in troops could have been improved.  This is one of the great military  questions of the war, since all sides continually attacked with terrible  losses.  But then he dismisses all suggestions with a wave of the hand,  stating categorically none would have helped, except improved  communications with hand held radios--which were not technically possible.  He really should have explained why none of the suggestions would have made  a difference.  Whenever he quotes battle statistics, some number is missing  so you can't get a full understanding.  Finally, the Brits on the Western  Front get more than their fair share of the coverage.  If you want to know  about the Eastern Front, you really need another book.	1999-09-27
US	52885767	R35TW5TZ8Q20VG	0316297178	86489424	Doing Battle: The Making of a Skeptic	Books	1	30	55	N	N	Fussell is dishonest, twisting the truth if not lying.	Fussell's hatred of war and the United States Army makes him state falsehoods about the Army and the men who served in the infantry. He quotes British Field Marshal Alexander on the poor quality of American infantry. Surely he knows that Allenbrooke, Montgomery and Alexander all were extremely prejudiced against their American allies. Fussell gives no dates, but Alexander was almost certainly saying that during the North Africa campaign, which was the first time Americans were in battle. The truth is that we had a lot to learn. We learned it quickly and rapidly became able to fight the Germans successfully.<br /><br />He states that the 28th Infantry Division was so poor that the Germans specifically chose to attack it in the Battle of the Bulge. Half truths and slander. The Ardennes was heavily forested and considered the area where Hitler was least likely to attack--which is why he chose it--and also the area were an attack was least likely to be successful because of hills forests and a poor road net, which is why Eisenhower did not worry overmuch about an attack there. Eisenhower was resting the 28th there and reinforcements to the division were getting acclimatized in a quite area. The division had fought bitter battles in the earlier advances. On the first day of the Battle of the Bulge the 28th was attacked by General der Panzertruppen Manteuffel's Fifth Panzer Army. What did this lousy division do when attacked by a whole friggen panzer army? It stopped them cold. The 28th took 24% casualties that first day. On the second day, the attacks were just as fierce and the 28th, weakened and low on ammunition, began to give ground. After the war Manteuffel said that he was never able to make up for that first lost day.<br /><br />Fussell states that all of his training was useless, (which makes it difficult to explain how we ever beat the best trained soldiers in the world, the Germans) including rifle marksmanship. It is true that area fire was more common, but many men owed their life (Including him! He once encountered three Germans and won the shootout.) to being able to shoot straight and true. There is no doubt that he (more justly) would have been just as critical of an Army that did not train infantry to shoot straight. He states that the Germans were better infantry, which is largely correct, although our best units were at least as good. The Germans had a four year head start on us and we were improving rapidly. Most historians agree that in the Battle of the Bulge, our infantry fought very well, slowing the Germans if they could not stop them. If they were as bad as Fussell makes out, we never would have gotten off the Normandy beaches. Incidentally, he states his own men were too lazy to dig foxholes. I doubt this--since the Civil War infantry has known the value of being underground. But if true, it is a terrible indictment of him as a commander who did not care enough about the lives of the men committed to his care to make them take the most elementary of battlefield safety precautions. (I can provide cites for my positive assertions, if anyone is interested.)<br /><br />Since writing this review I have come across two books, Closing with the Enemy by Michael D. Doubler, and The GI offensive in Europe by Peter R. Mansoor.  These books describe the training of infantry, the tactical lessons learned in battle, particularly the early fighting in North Africa and Italy, and how US infantry improved quickly.  I no longer think I was right to concede as I did that German troops were usually better.  By the end of North Africa, US troops were just as good and much better than the British. If you have a real interest in the history of W.W. II, these are important books.  I am not aware of similar coverage of tactics in any of the standard histories.	1999-09-17
US	52885767	RJO7YMJW9GZPI	031214380X	54904691	The Night Is Large: Collected Essays : 1938-1995	Books	5	3	4	N	Y	Facinating discussions of a wide variety of subjects.	One reviewer suggested that Gardner is often wrong.  Among those who think  he is right are Dr. Stephen Gould and the late Carl Sagen.  Whether or not  you agree with Gardner's opinions on  Freud's early theories, William  James' adventures with spiritualists, the existance of God (he is a  believer incidentally), you will learn new facts and expand your  intellectual horizons--a great book for the intellectually curious.	1998-09-29
US	52885767	RLTQNQGDY9176	0898706254	534328945	The King's Good Servant but God's First : The Life and Writings of Saint Thomas More	Books	1	13	80	N	Y	The book not objective.  More &amp; RC church are always right.	If you want an objective biography of More, read Richard Marius's  biography--available at Amazon.  The book under review specifically states  that the Roman Catholic Church cannot make an error in theology.  Therefore  the protestants were wrong theologically right down the line.  (Except that  the Church did need reform on the human level.)  If you want to know how  More defended the existance of angels, the seven sacrements, and  transubstantiation, this might be the book for you.  If you can believe--as  Monti claims--that More climbed to the top of the legal profession without  any ambition, then you are ready to believe More is a plaster saint.  But  if you really want a well researched biography by a well known scholar,  read Marius.	1998-09-27
