US	52888834	R2CI7CPK7RKM0C	1583940685	78315815	The Potent Self: A Study of Spontaneity and Compulsion	Books	5	91	91	N	N	Excellent aid to improving the functioning of the whole self	I've had no experience with the Feldenkrais method, nor even any particular interest in taking any classes.  My interest is in improving the general functioning of my body and mind.    This book provides deep and cogent analysis of a number of issues that I've not seen covered with such care elsewhere.  Particularly interesting to me was the chapter on \\"Resistance and Cross Motivation,\\" discussing the lack of clear, singular motivation in many of our actions that then manifests as resistance or tension.  Performing actions well, then, is not just about working hard to overcome obstacles, but letting go of the resistance one creates in oneself.    Also discussed are issues such as compulsiveness, fatigue, the nervous system and its relationship to the muscular system, sexuality and its relationship to social integration, and of course a great deal about posture and about healthy physical functioning.  Through all of this he continuously relates body to personality in many ways, making clear that what manifests as physical functioning or dysfunction -- the entire spectrum, from individual cell to mental health and even to social structure -- is of a piece and cannot be separated; e.g. \\"faulty posture can always be traced to those factors that cause increased emotional tone.\\"    It's difficult to reduce this book to a simple summary; the ideas are both broad and deep and provide a lot of fertile ground for further exploration.    The book overlaps of course with ideas from other movement therapies.  I thought that it went into more depth than Alexander Lowen's \\"Bioenergetics,\\" and that it was more systematic in dealing with the mental and emotional roots of physical posture than what I've read and experienced in the Alexander Technique.  Having no allegiance to any of these therapies, I'm happy to endorse \\"The Potent Self\\" as a valuable resource to enhance one's own self-awareness on all levels -- mental, emotional, and physical -- and it can complement many forms of self-directed healing.  For instance, the ideas in the book are very complementary to the Bates Method of natural vision improvement.    If there is a drawback to the book, it's that the language can be a bit academic and take some serious thought to digest.  But the value is in the digestion anyway.    Also, if you are expecting a lot of exercises, you'll be disappointed.  There are a few things to try, but the bulk of the book -- and what I consider most valuable anyway -- is discussion of the dynamics that propel behavior and action.	2005-04-21
US	52888834	R2WUARMJYGS9FB	0312302428	23735149	Arousal: The Secret Logic of Sexual Fantasies	Books	4	22	24	N	N	Enriching exploration of a little-understood topic	The thesis of \\"Arousal\\" is that psychological safety is the basis of the bewildering variety of sexual fantasies and preferences -- that the self sets up circumstances in which it feels safe to experience the power of its own sexuality. The way in which each of us does this differs according to our backgrounds. Our relationships with our parents are particularly important -- the elements and experiences in those relationships that made us feel safe or unsafe emotionally directly affect the way we experience our sexuality.  <br /> <br />Thus, we can interpret sexual fantasies just as we interpret dreams: as symbols within which our complex needs and fears are encoded.  <br /> <br />This book presents an enlightening perspective from which we can begin to understand our own sexual fantasies and preferences. Dr. Bader goes in-depth in exploring guilt, worry, and shame in sexuality; discusses the paradoxical nature of arousal -- the need for both selflessness and selfishness, for instance -- and presents a number of case studies to illustrate.  <br /> <br />I'm not certain why other reviewers thought this book was too simplistic. Certainly the central thesis seems simple enough, but I found myself having difficulty following the internal logic of the patients in his case studies -- women who fantasize about being raped, cross-dressers, people who are into sadomasochism or \\"golden showers,\\" etc. Although everyone seeks emotional safety, the variety of ways each person achieves this is staggering.  <br /> <br />As someone who constantly searches for aids to my self-awareness, I had two basic reactions to this book. One was, \\"Duh, why didn't I think of this before?\\" The other was, \\"Wow, this is good stuff.\\"  To have an experienced therapist explore the topic in detail helped me to see the depth and complexity of what seems to be very simple on the surface, and provides a solid starting point for those who want to explore the issue more in-depth within themselves.	2005-01-19
US	52888834	R1EF8DACU3AXWM	0553578073	225750695	The Dark Glory War (A Prelude to the DragonCrown War Cycle)	Books	2	6	12	N	N	I wanted to like this book.	I wanted to like this book.  Someone had recommended the DragonCrown War Cycle as a fantasy series similar to George R.R. Martin's A Song of Ice and Fire, which I thoroughly enjoyed.  So I thought I would check out the prequel.<br />It started out well enough: A coming-of-age story involving four young men in a village.  The details were intimate, different, descriptive.  It intrigued me.<br />That's about where my enjoyment of it ended.<br />The author is a game designer, and it shows.  The book is written as if the protagonists were the characters in a fantasy role-playing game.  That is, everything is black-and-white; magic and healing are simply taken for granted as tools that exist for use; there are various races that exist for no specific reason; there are endless battles without much plotting or characterization to go along with it; and there's a single distant enemy who is the core of all evil.<br />Being a former player of Dungeons and Dragons, I could almost see the author thinking, \\"Okay, after THIS battle these guys will get more experience points and gain a level.\\"<br />The problem is: I hate novels that work this way.  The stories  that work best for me are the ones that truly explore the meaning of the experience, that explore characters and motivations, ethical twists and interpersonal conflicts.  I'm not talking about dry philosophy or moralizing; I'm just talking about a little introspection and interplay.  The characters are very flat, the plotting is juvenile, the worldbuilding is derivative.<br />Early in the book, for instance, the main characters survive an attack by various sinister creatures and are lauded for doing so despite their innocence and inexperience.  After that there is absolutely zero exploration of their feelings, their reactions, how this has changed them.  Instead they are herded from one event to another, so quickly and without any deeper meaning that it is very difficult to see this as anything other than the narration of someone's role-playing game.  Within a few chapters they have come military heroes.<br />The existence of the different races and the treatment of magic are similarly superficial.  So you've got these different races, and ok they look different, and either there's some racism among the \\"good guy\\" races, or there are a bunch of \\"bad guy\\" races that exist only to attack the good guys.  Riiiight.  That's pretty juvenile.  It's like the stereotypical role-playing scenario of stumbling into a dungeon room, filled with treasure, sealed for thousands of years, and there's a dragon there defending it ...  Why would any living being exist only for the purpose of attacking the good guys?<br />And magic: I don't mind the use of magic.  But I feel that any description of it should be handled with sophistication -- perhaps a hint of a mythic tone or mysterious quality, to emphasize the fact that forces exist in the world beyond one's ken, or a sense of background or underlying meaning to it all.  But here, as in so many derivative fantasies, it is reduced to plot points.<br />I will say that I enjoyed the character development and tension and twists scattered here and there, but it occurred mostly at the beginning and the end.  For the rest of it, there was surprisingly little real tension.  Even sex scenes lacked any flavor of reality.<br />One last complaint: The language.  Highly inconsistent: At times he uses high, formalistic language, sounding like he's trying to do a proper medieval fantasy; at other times he'll say, for instance, that the summer was a \\"scorcher,\\" which is a very modern slang term.  It makes for a rather jolting read at times.<br />My verdict: The beginning is nice, the ending is very interesting.  Most of it goes nowhere.  There's no *meaning*.  It's just a big dumb hero-boy fantasy.	2004-05-01
US	52888834	R1191OULDZG2A9	0812571339	656525801	Crossroads of Twilight (Wheel of Time, Book 10)	Books	5	29	61	N	N	Hahahahahahahaha!	Okay, okay, I stopped losing interest in Jordan around book six, but I kept up with skimming through his books every now and then to see what I missed.  And looks like I didn't miss much.<br />But the real point I wanted to make: The reviews!  Oh, what glorious reviews.  It is SOOO amusing to read all of these long, detailed, intelligent analyses of where Jordan abandoned all respect for his work to his own self-importance.  Some of you should write your own books.<br />And for his eternally awful tome of crap, people are giving him -- what -- nearly two thousand (and counting) book reviews for this mound of inorganic cattle dung, rotting to the top of the bestseller list!  Wow!  Not very many people achieve such notoriety!  For that alone, he puts himself up in the rarefied air (just sniff it!) of other creators of great literature.<br />This huge backlash would not exist with Jordan's consummate ability to bait-and-switch.  (Write a few good ones, get the pump primed, then start writing reams of drivel to lure in the money.)  To him I owe my amusement.<br />Thus, for the two thousand mostly-negative reviews that have kept me amused (and occasionally laughing hysterically) when I was otherwise bored and down, I give this five big frickin' stars.	2004-04-01
US	52888834	R3C4N75V746X2L	0201050714	974186648	The Continuum Concept: In Search Of Happiness Lost (Classics in Human Development)	Books	4	28	34	N	N	How to raise your child in harmony with the matrix of life	Liedloff's &quot;continuum concept&quot; is a description of the development of human life: humans, like all other life forms, exist within a continuum of nature, and we survive and thrive best when we behave in ways closest to our natural heritage.  The Continuum Concept is an application of this basic idea to childhood development and to human psychological development, based on ideas that Liedloff developed while she lived with a group of South American Indians called the Yequana.  She found that their children matured easily and were independent and secure in themselves and in their relationships with others.  She saw no strife or real unhappiness in the Yequana, despite the primitive quality of their existence.<br />This book contains many wonderful insights about human development.  The author proposes that many in Western culture are touch-deprived in infancy - a critical period she calls the &quot;in-arms phase&quot; - and that this deficit carries over into adulthood, in the form of the yearning for love, the need for other forms of security like money and possessions, etc.  In essence, because our childhood was robbed of love and security, we seek it for the rest of our lives.<br />The solution is to do as the Yequana: to hold and be with our babies all of the time; to be passive but available agents, giving the infants the independence and self-responsibility to explore, but with a secure parental base as anchor.  Liedloff speaks of the harmony of the Yequana people, their lack of competition, their tremendous ease with the world, their sense of humor with each other, their lack of peer pressure or expectation.<br />Some of the auxiliary ideas are interesting but not as well-founded.  I disagreed particularly with her idea that homosexuality was one consequence of a lack of love; that's one idea that could bear updating (this book was written in the 1970's).  She tends to overgeneralize or exaggerate a little bit when she speculates on how exactly the continuum concept impacts people in our society or in the Yequana's.  The writing is simple and flows easily, but because of this and because of some of the generalizations, it begs for more detail and perhaps more backing, if not through experimental research or correlation with other cultures, then at least with examples and anecdotes.  Unfortunately there are fewer than I would like.<br />Overall, though, this book introduced me to some profound ideas I'd never encountered before.  This is definitely one book I plan to refer to when I start raising children.	2003-12-17
US	52888834	RMV3BE7FQQOKK	0195651855	771893419	Jungle Lore	Books	4	15	17	N	N	Entertaining narrative with genuine depth	James E. Corbett grew up in an India that was still a colony of Great Britain.  This is an autobiographical account of episodes in his life -- by no means complete, but a taste of what it was like to grow up, not in the culture of British India, but in the jungles that surrounded it.  He was a self-taught naturalist and tracker, learning to hunt, track, find direction, and survive in the jungles.  The stories are mostly entertaining -- except toward the end, where I found myself flipping forward in some distaste because of his description of hunting tigers for sport.  But Corbett himself demonstrates a healthy reverence for life, and moreover, a strong appetite for learning about the natural world, and for developing his sensitivity to it.<br />The book is largely narrative, but mixed in with it is a little bit of his philosophy of jungle law, and some material about what he has learned through his experiences, supplemented, of course, with more stories.  This, like other anecdotal evidence, should be taken with a grain of salt and tested against one's own experience.  For instance, he writes that venomous snakes, with one exception, are slower and so have to wriggle more in order to move around, and so their tracks will reflect this, while non-venomous snakes are speedy and agile and will have straight rather than wave-form tracks.  A friend of mine who's very familiar with snakes disputes this.<br />But, as Corbett himself says, &quot;Having stated that the book of Nature has no beginning, and no end, I would be the last to claim that I have learned all that is to be learned of any of the subjects dealt with here, or that this book contains any expert knowledge.&quot;  Undoubtedly, though, through his extensive experience alone, he has learned enough to be a master, in harmony with his jungle.	2003-12-11
US	52888834	R2HBZZHYUT0Q4	1577311523	155458601	The Power of Now: A Guide to Spiritual Enlightenment	Books	4	22	24	N	N	Valuable but simplistic message	This book is a good introduction to the concept of living in the spacious present.  It is written in a question-and-answer format and essentially says the same thing over and over again throughout the book, which can get old but is on the other hand useful for its continual emphasis.<br />I like some of the new ways in which he presents old ideas, for instance, thinking as an addiction, which helps me to relate it to my many other addictions.<br />I also particularly like the concept of the pain-body.  Tolle describes the pain-body as the accumulated pain from your past, which almost literally forms an invisible entity that feeds on your body and mind, which stimulates you to think and feel painful things.  (This is quite similar to the concept of the Parasite in don Miguel Ruiz's The Four Agreements, a book with a similar quality and style.)  Thus the pain-body is, in a sense, an objective being that feeds off of negative thoughts, feelings, attitudes, and behaviors.  Dealing with the pain-body means not to struggle with it, but instead to pay attention to it and accept it.  Awareness and attention shine like a light in the darkness, dissolving the pain, quickly or slowly but surely.<br />The ideas are of course old ideas, though dressed in interesting contemporary language and addressed to modern readers.  The book repeats the same concept over and over throughout, from different angles, which may appeal to some who need a lot of explanation and may turn others off if they already have a sense of it.<br />I do have some criticisms, which keep me from giving this five stars:<br />First of all, on occasion Tolle makes subtly patronizing statements toward things or people that are not fully &quot;enlightened.&quot;  For instance, on p. 81, he writes, &quot;Because we live in such a mind-dominated culture, most modern art, architecture, music, and literature are devoid of beauty, of inner essence, with very few exceptions.  The reason is that the people who create those things cannot -- even for a moment -- free themselves from their mind.  So they are never in touch with that place within where true creativity and beauty arise.&quot;  Elsewhere he similarly dismisses physicists' search for &quot;dark matter&quot; and critiques our culture as being &quot;almost totally ignorant of anything that truly matters.&quot;  I truly cannot see a reason for vague, inaccurate, and judgmental overgeneralizations in a book about attention and acceptance.<br />I also find his sections on women and homosexuals odd.  He maintains that it is somewhat easier for a woman to become enlightened because women are more in tune with their bodies.  Does that mean athletes have a better chance than couch potatotes?  He also asserts that it may be easier for homosexuals to be enlightened because: &quot;Being an outsider to some extent, someone who does not &quot;fit in&quot; with others or is rejected by them for whatever reason, makes life difficult, but it also places you at an advantage as far as enlightenment is concerned.  It takes you out of unconsciousness almost by force&quot; (p. 144).  So does that mean all social misfits and outcasts are further ahead?  The homeless?  Ethnic minorities?  Disabled people?  Why single out homosexuals?<br />But my main criticism of the book is that he emphasizes &quot;being in the Now&quot; as both the path and the goal, thus neatly avoiding a lot of hairy questions.  His response to every question is simply that you have to let go of the mind and be in the present.  Certainly that is the way things should be in an ideal world, if enlightenment were really easy.  But as another reviewer said, this is like 0 to 100 mph in ten seconds.<br />There are many problems in most people's lives and selves.  Tolle's book doesn't do much in the way of guiding people through their issues.  Although he pays lip service to the proper use of the mind, he does not explain where it or the ego belong.  Nor does he make clear exactlywhat you do when the &quot;pay-attention-and-it-will-go-away&quot; formula doesn't work, i.e. when the issues you are facing are a good bit thornier than that.<br />There are also a number of &quot;mental&quot; questions that aren't really discussed but would have contributed to my overall understanding.  For instance, if you are paying attention to an intense emotion that is occurring right now, you are definitely not paying as much attention to your physical surroundings.  Which one is more in the Now?  A seeming contradiction; never addressed.<br />Indeed, his maddening response to a similar question was: &quot;You haven't yet grasped the essence of what I am saying because you are trying to understand it mentally.  The mind cannot understand this.  Only YOU can.  Please just listen.&quot;  Which was then followed by several paragraphs of repetitive explanation.<br />Overall, I think Tolle is rather simplistic in his presentation.  To a large extent, this simplicity works because the emphasis on living in the present is so important, and everyone could use a large dose of it.  But readers should be aware that his treatment of the topic is incomplete and in some instances very unhelpful.<br />But the message is still extremely valuable.  For the emphasis on the Now alone, I recommend this book.  I would say, read the parts that speak to you.  The core of what he's saying is really just, PAY ATTENTION, and he never stops saying this.<br />For a more thorough and compassionate book about the spiritual path, try &quot;A Path With Heart&quot; by Jack Kornfield.	2003-12-09
US	52888834	RN28IF5GMED15	0781734541	569495355	Review for Therapeutic Massage and Bodywork Certification (LWW Massage Therapy & Bodywork Series)	Books	5	72	73	N	N	Densely packed with information	This book is just the right mix of information and brevity.  It covers a lot of material but does not go into unnecessary depth on anything; it simply tells you what you need to know for the national exam.<br />Organization is very good, and it covers all of the basic areas with all of the essential information.  Topics that my school didn't cover in enough depth, for instance taxes, were dealt with well in the short sections on business practices.<br />The quiz sections were for the most part accurate depictions of actual exam questions.<br />The book has a couple of minor deficiencies.  One, as another reviewer noted, is that there isn't enough information on Chinese medicine, compared to what is actually on the test.  Another problem I have with the book is that while it covers a lot of diseases, they are perfunctory descriptions at best.  But not much more is needed for the massage exam.<br />I took the massage exam and passed with flying colors.  I studied using this book, &quot;Massage National Exam: Questions and Answers,&quot; and &quot;Illustrated Essentials of Musculoskeletal Anatomy,&quot; along with a medical dictionary.	2003-11-24
US	52888834	R22CWX0W14DHI8	1892693089	273653867	Massage National Exam Questions and Answers	Books	4	31	31	N	Y	Great review for NCE	This book provides an excellent review for the national exam.  In particular, it gives a good sense of what questions on the exam are like.  For instance, my school had not provided much detailed instruction on Chinese medicine, and I was surprised at how many questions there were on Chinese medicine in this book; but as a result, I was very prepared for similar questions on the exam.<br />There are many quirks to this book though.  The first one I noticed is that it is very disorganized.  There is almost no way to study for specific topics; like the actual exam, the questions jump all over the place, though some are clustered.  Further, the answers are right there with the questions, instead of being in an answer key elsewhere, so while studying I had to go down the list of questions with a piece of paper blocking my view to keep myself from seeing the answer.<br />There are some things in the book which I think are totally irrelevant to the national exam, for instance a listing of herbs and what they're good for, and there was one question about the Eight Extraordinary Meridians in chinese medicine which was kind of weird considering that it's an advanced topic even for acupuncturists.<br />I would say that 90% of this book is very useful.  The caveat is the disorganization, which is probably a result of the way the book is put together: These are actual NCE questions that previous test-takers have sent in, and their memory for exact wording and what were all of the choices for answers wasn't totally accurate.  However, the questions themselves, from my experience with the test, are right on when it comes to showing what the NCE tests for.  Indeed, some of the questions on the actual test were ones I wouldn't have gotten because I simply wouldn't have anticipated them, but this book already answered it for me.  (For instance: What acupuncture point is most useful in treating headaches?  Answer: LI 4)<br />I used this to review for my exam and I passed with flyingcolors.  I also studied &quot;Review for Therapeutic Massage and Bodywork Certification&quot; and a book on muscles/bones, and had a medical dictionary as reference.	2003-11-24
US	52888834	RHTVXL8SFN3OT	1879181231	836513083	The Teachings of Don Carlos: Practical Applications of the Works of Carlos Castaneda	Books	5	20	21	N	N	Excellent applications of the Toltec system	Victor Sanchez has done a good job of presenting various practical ways to &quot;get at&quot; the concepts in Castaneda's books.  The book is part exposition and part exercise, disseminated throughout the various chapters.  It is really more of a reference manual or a workbook than a book to read straight through.<br />Some of the exercises seem more accessible to me than others.  To start dealing with self-importance, he gives some cogent suggestions like telling yourself lies (to erase personal history) and making an inventory of energy expenditures by paying attention to what you are thinking and doing at various times throughout the day.  Then there are other exercises that I never quite got, like his exercises on &quot;awareness of the skeleton&quot; which are supposed to help you access awareness of your own death, so that you can use death as an adviser.  And personally, as someone who has worked with lucid dreams for a while, I feel that his section on dreaming is fairly weak and lacks flesh, compared to the rest of the book.<br />But those are minor quibbles.  It's clear to me that he considers these exercises a beginning, and that any enterprising individual can take his ideas and run with them, or make up new techniques.  Take some and leave some.<br />I had the opportunity to ask Sanchez during a workshop what parts of this book he would now revise, since it has been around a decade since the original printing, and he has had many additional experiences in that period of time, including his workshops ([...]) and his work with indigenous tribes in Central America.  He replied that he felt that it was still fairly solid, except for his revision of his ideas of recapitulation, which have since been updated in a new book, The Toltec Path of Recapitulation.<br />As for the accusations that Sanchez &quot;has neither the eloquence nor the literary wit of Castaneda&quot; and &quot;has made a career from riding on Castaneda's coattails&quot; ...  Well, sure, Castaneda was a master storyteller, but this book ain't about telling stories, it's about what you can do with the lessons in the stories.  And although I do not claim to know Sanchez in any depth, having tried many of his techniques and attended one of his short workshops, I would say that he is genuinely dedicated to practicing and teaching his knowledge -- knowledge that has been gained partially from studying Castaneda's works, yes, but by his own admission he has learned the most by far from his experiences with the various indigenous Toltec peoples living in Central America.  That is not what I would call making a career from riding on Castaneda's coattails.  Judge for yourself from his writings whether or not he is real or fake.<br />There is definitely plenty of controversy surrounding the figure of Castaneda himself, whether he himself succumbed to the lure of power and became a petty tyrant.  The last thing I'll say about this is that Castaneda sued Sanchez and Bear &amp; Co. for an earlier version of the cover of this book, claiming that it ripped off the cover of The Teachings of Don Juan.  If you're interested you can read up about that and other Castaneda controversies at [...]<br />To sum up the book: Good workbook to complement Toltec ideas, YOU do the work.	2003-11-09
US	52888834	R2M876X118IUEW	1551563142	190702108	Wire-O Basics Buckskin Unlined	Books	4	1	1	N	Y	Pretty good	Pretty good basic journal.  It seems fairly sturdy although I haven't put it up to any abuse.  The one very minor problem I have is that sometimes the pages catch on the spiral wire, making closing the book a little tricky at times, but as I said that's very minor and will probably occur with any spiral-bound journal.	2003-10-07
US	52888834	R1GM2LDXMJCVEV	1879181606	309001013	The Toltec Path of Recapitulation: Healing Your Past to Free Your Soul	Books	5	42	44	N	N	Recapitulation works	Right up front, let me say that recapitulation is, by conventional standards, a pretty weird way to heal yourself from your past.  It is breathwork in a box.  That's right, a wooden box that you build and do all of your recapitulation in.<br />In its essence, though, recapitulation is about going through all of the significant events in your life to (1) reclaim lost energy, or to (2) release unwanted energy, and ultimately to heal from it.<br />The idea is that the most people's energy body (or emotional self) is like a stressball that has lost some of its ability to regain its original shape.  Most often, we act based not on the demands on the moment, but on traumas that occurred in the past.  All of our relationships and interactions therefore have some kind of transference or projection (to borrow some Freudian terms).<br />The process of recapitulation involves remembering an event as intensely as you can, then making an active decision to heal from it, and using specific breathing techniques to help you achieve that.<br />Sanchez advocates doing a hard-core recapitulation, in which you list significant events in your entire life, build a box, and then recapitulate each event while in your box.<br />It probably sounds like a pretty different way to go about your self-healing.  It certainly did to me at first, though the practicality of Sanchez's earlier work, The Teachings of Don Carlos, made me take a closer look.  I'm glad I did.<br />Going mostly by the instructions in this book, I came up with a list and built a box and did a good deal of recapitulation.  I've gotten a lot of personal insight and healing from this technique, and a lot of self-acceptance and forgiveness as well.<br />Let me make clear that if you don't have the time or energy to do the whole box thing (which for me was a big deal and a good bit of sweat), then you can still do recapitulation for specific events.  In fact, I've gotten tons of mileage out of doing just that, without the box oranything.  Doing that alone can result in a great deal of healing.<br />I've never been in therapy so I can't compare the results of this with any psychotherapeutic modalities.  I have done some holotropic breathwork and dabbled in other healing methods.<br />All in all, I can say that I prefer recapitulation for its effectiveness and its simplicity -- yes, its simplicity.  When it comes right down to it, recapitulation makes you take a hard look at what you're doing, and gives you the space to make decisions, and harnesses the breath and your intent to help you make that decision.  Ultimately that's all you need to let go of pain.<br />If this method seems intense, that's because it is also very complete; but at its core it is very simple.	2003-10-07
US	52888834	R7OXXAZE8RZ2N	0441009298	254956454	Ships from the West	Books	3	2	2	N	Y	A too-simplified ending (SPOILERS)	There's an eight-year gap between the previous book and this one, the last of the series, and much goes unexplained.  Why, for instance, did Bardolin turn over to Aruan -- what exactly happened?  We know that Golophin couldn't cure him, and at the end of the last book Bardolin was starting to feel comfortable being a werewolf, but suddenly now he's Aruan's right hand man.  How?<br />And some other small questions: How does Formio come to stay with Corfe permanently?  He had been ordered by his commander Barbius to put the Fimbrian troops at Corfe's disposal, but a decade later he's King Corfe's second-in-command.  How did he decide to desert his nation?  Don't some of those Fimbrians have families?  And Jemilla, the woman who struggles so hard to put her son on the throne of Hebrion, somehow marries Murad and stays quiet for a decade?  How did people in the Himerian church -- and people in general -- adjust to the sudden change in policy, pro-Dweomer, where before they were burning anyone who used magic?<br />These are all little questions that add up.  It gives me the impression that Mr. Kearney was getting tired of his series and wanted to make everything convenient, without explaining how they got there.<br />Now, I'm probably nitpicking a bit.  The lack of backstory doesn't necessarily detract from the plot, but it does reflect a lack of depth in this world, and gives me less understanding and less reason to care for the people.<br />The final battle itself, though, feels very cliched.  In the beginning, Aruan and his minions wreak a devastating defeat to the huge Hebrian-Astarac navy in the span of mere hours.  How could such a magical juggernaut be defeated?<br />Well, pretty much how you'd expect.  Corfe leads an army and somehow finds a way to surprise the enemy, and Aruan's magical army proves surprisingly easy to beat -- with iron or silver.  (I find it very hard to believe that no one knew that at the beginning of the book -- no one's heard superstitionsor myths about that kind of thing, even though so many people lived side by side with Dweomer-folk not too long ago?)  And of course, in the final battle scene, Corfe engages Aruan in single combat and wins.  All hail the king.<br />A cliched, simplified, feel-good ending to a good, complex series.  I hoped for better.	2003-08-17
US	52888834	R2O4HFHABL1W0P	0441009034	768716294	Hawkwood's Voyage (Monarchies of God, Book 1)	Books	4	10	12	N	Y	Good series which starts out well but dwindles at the end	(This review refers to the whole 5-book series, so there may be some spoilers.)<br />I enjoyed this series quite a bit.  Coming from the intricacies of Martin's Song of Ice and Fire and Robin Hobb's books, I was looking for more of the same: political intrigue, unique and well-developed characters, and a weblike plot which examines the myriad consequences of individual actions.<br />This first book, Hawkwood's Voyage, hints that the major plot will revolve around the character Captain Hawkwood and the expedition he is forced to lead across the unknown sea, sort of a Columbus of the times.  Actually, though, there's a lot more to it.  The world is a fantasy version of Renaissance Europe plus the presence of magic, but in this world the Christ figure lived only 500 years ago.<br />The major plot lines revolve around not only Hawkwood's voyage, but power struggles within the Church, between the Church and some of the nations, (there are burnings a la the Inquisition), and, of course, the invasion force of Moslems, er, \\"Merduks\\" that threaten the western world.  Indeed, the book opens with the fall of Aekir, the major city of the western world, to the marauding Merduks.<br />All very promising, and the next few books ratchet up the interest and excitement -- but by simplifying the complexity, possibly a consequence of the size of the books (all of them run fairly short for epic fantasy -- around 300 pages).  This is not necessarily a bad thing -- witness Jordan's thousand-page debacles -- but it tends to undercut the complexity that the first couple of books set up.<br />The main emotional satisfaction comes from following the character Corfe, who goes from deserting the Torunnan army at the fall of Aekir to being a renowned war leader.  Corfe figures larger and larger throughout the series, and his victories and rise to power form the heart of the series.<br />Unfortunately, that is also the series' main failing.  Because it eventually (in the 3rd and 4th books especially) latches onto this one military leader and his battles, it shortchanges everything else -- from plot lines to believability.  There's hardly a mention of Hawkwood's voyage in the 3rd book.  Another example: The discovery of the true origin of Ramusio (the Christ figure) later in the series brings about the reconciliation between Merduk and western peoples, but this feels very hollow in the midst of, say, the Israeli and Palestinian struggle in our reality.  Recognition of common religious origin is NOT enough for peace, and the author's assumption that it is makes him that much less believable.<br />Some characters are simply cut out.  They lose screen time, so to speak; they start behaving predictably.  Motivations are not explained.  Some characterizations, at the end, lapse into mere conveniences.  We are told early on, for instance, that fellow Church novices Albrec and Avila will change the world, but when it finally comes around to that, Avila's not even around and we meet Albrec only briefly, through Corfe's eyes.<br />The essence of this story is in the more straightforward military setting: the battles and the rise of Corfe.  Here Kearney excels; but, having spent my youth reading Superman comics, battle after battle starts to feel old to me.<br />Overall: The series begins with satisfying complexity and ends somewhat simply, but well-written enough to get me through.  (I would have been satisfied being finished at the fourth book, if not for the whole Western Continent plotline; but the last book turned out to be a poorer follow-up.)  Read it and pay attention to Corfe.	2003-08-17
US	52888834	R25K9GLHEYSLHZ	0446606693	380883305	Kingdom Come	Books	5	3	4	N	N	As good, in its own way, as the graphic novel	[This review refers to the novelization of the graphic novel, written by Elliot Maggin]<br />I honestly didn't expect this book to be very good.<br />I loved the graphic novel when it came out.  I had been a DC fan for several years, and this story seemed somehow more human and worldly than the usual run-of-the-mill comics story.<br />Now, to be sure, I haven't picked up a comic book in years, nor have I read the graphic novel version of Kingdom Come to compare with this novel.  But I have to say that, as a stand-alone, it is excellent.<br />The trouble I have had with superhero comics is that they simplify many things down to hack-and-slash.  Superman, Wonder Woman, Batman, Green Lantern: if you think about it, the primary means to what they are usually portrayed doing is fighting.  The fact that they have super-powers, after a while, becomes beside the point.  It's not REAL.<br />Good stories like Kingdom Come and The Watchmen make it about character.  You learn to care for and identify with the people.<br />So what I enjoyed about the novelization is that I felt that even more than with the graphic version.  It wasn't just a panel-by-panel remake of the comic.  It was a real, fleshed-out story, with more in-depth characterizations and surprisingly satisfying details, written better than I would have expected from any sort of adaptation.  (I once read Orson Scott Card's novelization of the movie The Abyss.  I love Card's work, but the novel was bad.)<br />Maggin gives us political backstory, longer and more intimate conversations, and extended versions of scenes that have to be short when most of the page is pictures.  To me it seemed that he worked what was in the graphic novel seamlessly into a greater work -- not that I had it beside me to compare, but to tell the truth, I didn't miss it.  I actually felt that I appreciated the depth of each character more than I could have with the original comic.  It's not as easy to describe characters in words.  This is also a problem with movies: you can only tell so much about a character.  The benefit of books is that you can be TOLD these things, and cram more into a book than you can in a 90-page comic or a 2-hour movie.<br />So it is with the novel.  There are so many more little details to enjoy: the spiritual and moral conflict the narrator Norman McCay is faced with; the many visits and conversations Superman has with various erstwhile metahumans; the little rivalry between Scott Free and Captain Comet; details on what life as the Flash must be like; characterizations and moral conflict in the politicians' decision to drop the bomb; and the final moments of battling superheroes right before the bomb hits.  Much of which was not and could not be contained in the graphic novel.<br />Granted, the fine art is not there.  You win some, you lose some; best to have both, but the book stands on its own too.  I give five stars to this unexpected but extremely pleasurable read.	2003-06-04
US	52888834	R1E9ATVW81L5RS	1883319056	580629443	The Craft of the Warrior	Books	5	16	16	N	N	Excellent guide to the way of the spiritual warrior	The path of spiritual knowledge and freedom has often been described by using the metaphor of \\"going to war\\"; hence the term \\"warrior.\\"  Make no mistake, though, this book has nothing to do with violence or military action.  It is not a Green Beret handbook and has no photos on how to perform a proper takedown.  Rather, it is a textbook and reference manual on the development of spiritual power.<br />Many others have traversed this same territory, and the author is a student of various paths, and so he presents a synthesis of some of the threads he has encountered: Carlos Castaneda and the Toltecs, Dan Millman, Shambhala, G.I. Gurdjieff, the Feldenkrais method, A Course in Miracles, and Neuro-Linguistic Programming are his main sources, alongside his personal experience as a psychotherapist.<br />The result is a very useful and well-organized distillation of the ways and means to personal power -- power over self, as opposed to power over others.  People familiar with any of the above sources will find similar concepts here, but presented in a very straightforward format (as opposed to some of the storytelling styles of some of the sources).  The seeking of personal power is, after all, a very practical pursuit, not something limited to stories about people who have had supernatural experiences or extraordinary teachers.<br />The warrior's way represents simply the most effective and efficient way of living in the world: with minimization of energy waste and maximization of available resources, achieved through honing the self down to a fine point by relentless self-examination and action.  It requires discipline, nonattachment, compassion, and surrender of self to be truly free, and these things are available to anyone.  Spencer's book makes this all the more clear in his drawing from many sources, showing that, truly, truth and opportunities for gaining power can be found almost anywhere you look.<br />All in all, a most lucid presentation and thorough descriptionof what is expected of a person on the warrior's path.  I would also recommend A Toltec Path, by Ken Eagle Feather.	2002-12-26
US	52888834	R1C21FLZE4EZBU	0553258885	318154992	Memories	Books	5	18	18	N	N	A transcendental story	Memories is not your ordinary science fiction.  Indeed, to me the best science fiction or fantasy is not about technology or magic but about human relationships and interactions; they are stories speak to universal themes and truths even while couching the context in a certain milieu.<br /><br />This novel is one of those stories that transcends the genre.<br /><br />The story seems as far-fetched as a science fiction novel might be.  It centers around a modern-day psychiatrist named David Wolf, a typical self-absorbed rich guy trapped by his own class and background.  Then one day, along comes his sister, acting very strangely and claiming to actually be one of his descendants from the far future, Silv.  Silv has invented a drug that allows a person to travel through his own lines of ancestry -- to time-travel, in essence, and inhabit any one of his ancestors for any length of time.  And of course, she needs David's help to stop a third time-traveller, Hersh, who stole the drug and has ensconced himself in the person of Napoleon Bonaparte and is proceeding to screw up history.<br /><br />If so far it sounds like a cheesy \\"Star Trek\\" episode, well, that's how it struck me, at first.  But it quickly becomes about far more than mere time-travel paradoxes.  It's a vast what-if story.  What if: you could be anybody in any place, any time?  What if you could see Jesus or Alexander the Great or Genghis Khan, what if you could influence world events?  What if you couldn't die?  What if you could dwell for eternity in the lives of any of your ancestors?  What would life *mean*?  What would *existence* mean?<br /><br />And what if you saw the hopelessness, the repetitiveness, of human history?  What if you say the endless killing, the wars, the famine, the disease?  What if you had the power to see the infinite varieties of death and suffering in the world?  Where would be the meaning, the joy?<br /><br />Fortunately McQuay doesn't exactly tackle all of these themes at onceor even in-depth.  But the plot develops from a rickety time-travel story into a philosophical exploration and, ultimately, a romance of a sensual and spiritual nature that is beautiful to read.  And psychologically, the story moves the characters from one of base struggle and manipulation, through joyful exploration, to a mature and, dare I say, enlightened experience of the world as it is -- and ending, of course, in death, for that is something from which none of us escape.<br /><br />But in the end, as I read back across the timescape that McQuay has crafted, I saw how life in general goes -- really, in that sequence, from struggle to exploration to enlightenment.  (Think Bill Murray in Groundhog Day.)  So few stories really touch on a context for life and existence so deep and so broad, and I am grateful to this author for offering this to us.<br /><br />Memories is the winner of a Philip K. Dick Award, and I definitely see why.	2001-03-01
US	52888834	R3BO4GCPX04ZKU	1556433417	736578541	Relearning to See: Improve Your Eyesight Naturally!	Books	5	239	243	N	N	Encyclopedia of vision improvement	Far and away the most comprehensive book on vision improvement I've come across, this is more of an encyclopedia than a book you read straight through.  Mr. Quackenbush - not an eye doctor, but a long-time teacher of the Bates method - goes through the mechanics and physiology of the eye and the eye's  natural vision habits in exhaustive detail.  He also gives pointers on reducing one's prescription, movement exercises, acupressure, relaxation games, left-brain/right-brain physiology, and holistic health, all geared toward improving your eyesight.  Central to his teaching of the Bates method is that there are NO exercises.  These are habits which are to be practiced 24 hours a day!  And they are so simple, so easy to do, and afterwards you'll wonder why people are still stuck in poor vision.<br />Tom, who founded the Natural Vision Center, used to teach his courses in the San Francisco Bay Area but is now in Ashland, Oregon.  I've taken his natural vision course and I found it to be profound.  It's been a year and a half; my prescription used to be 20/400, but now I can occasionally see 20/50 or better.  Progress is expected to be slow but steady, and I saw jumps in my vision after only a few weeks in the course.	2001-02-06
US	52888834	R3DSGEGODJJL2	0671732463	763906632	Journey to Ixtlan: The Lessons of Don Juan	Books	5	135	155	N	N	Better than his first two books	It took a lot for me to get through Castaneda's first book, The Teachings of Don Juan.  I was totally unimpressed with it.  The whole book was essentially about how a Yaqui Indian &quot;sorcerer&quot; put naive Carlos, then a graduate student in anthropology from UCLA doing research on a hallucinogenic plant, through a bunch of weird drug trips that shook his view of reality.  And to me, that doesn't jive at all.<br />But in Journey to Ixtlan, Castaneda goes back and says, &quot;wait, start over, reset.  I was wrong about all of that drug stuff, it's really not necessary, don Juan just put me through that because I was too stubborn and 'rational' to see that there may be other views of reality than the ones I subscribe to.&quot;  In this book he discovers that he doesn't need drugs to experience other worlds.  Rather, there are a series of practices for right living that enable the possibility of perceiving in nonordinary ways.<br />So Journey to Ixtlan is where the real lessons about living life in the warrior's way begin.  I recommend this book highly as a starting point for Castaneda's work; forget the first two books.	2001-02-05
US	52888834	R23CP1U6JGXVOJ	034537410X	363491181	Exploring the World of Lucid Dreaming	Books	5	19	27	N	N	Best guide to lucid dreaming	LaBerge is a psychologist at Stanford University, currently working on lucid dream research at The Lucidity Institute in Palo Alto, California. These books detail his discoveries on the waking dream and the methods by which one can experience such dreams. Lucid dreams are very fascinating and are an amazingly creative and fun way of exploring inner reality. The books have a pretty scientific bent and should be seen more as textbooks rather than descriptive or imaginative introductions to the lucid dream world.  <br />Of his two books, I think this one is a far more practical guide.	2000-12-10
US	52888834	R3KN4YW85MUDWG	0688082742	448089741	Four Arguments for the Elimination of Television	Books	5	154	160	N	N	Cuts to the heart of what's wrong with this society	Written in the late 1970's by a former advertising executive, Four Arguments is a coherent diatribe against television. He explores four areas: (1) Television as a poor mediator of experience; (2) television as a way to influence audiences' perceptions en masse; (3) the &quot;dumbing-down&quot; effects of TV on the human being; and (4) the inherent biases of television and how they limit real information flow. The first couple of arguments are more attacks on capitalism and the development of television as a capitalist tool, but overall, they are solid statements that stand on their own.<br />However, TV has become a central part of the American lifestyle, and it would be hard, if not impossible, to get rid of. But I definitely feel the truth of his arguments. When I was in India, much of the time at my host family's place, they would sit around watching television while doing chores. It felt empty somehow. Where was the richness of the culture? Here I am in India, and I'm sitting here watching a stupid Hindi movie instad of interacting in a meaningful way. And when I came back home, I felt the shock of the media doubly. Everything on TV looked slick, fake, contrived, absolutely ridiculous. We have been so inoculated to all of this by now that it's hard to see unless you go away and come back again.<br />It's tough to break any sort of addiction, and I think television is an addiction. It is part of the problem of a society that always looks for the next best thing, that promotes the loudest, noisiest, most violent thing, that can't sit still for half an hour to soak in the beauty of quiet stillness.<br />In some ways, this book is hard to read. It's easy to grasp but it's difficult to take this kind of attack on such a commonly accepted lifestyle even though you know it's wrong. Plus it's a lot of information coming at you at once; I had to digest it in little bits and pieces to give it time to sink in.	2000-12-10
US	52888834	R2HD9WR9P6B635	0877285470	360002059	The Spear of Destiny: The Occult Power Behind the Spear which pierced the side of Christ	Books	3	62	71	N	N	Bizarre, but interesting	I first read this book when I was in grade school. Nothing really sank in except that Hitler really was Satanic. Now, years later, with a broad background of scientific skepticism and studies into some Eastern philosophies and so-called New Age stuff, I came back to this book to take a second look.  <br />What it is not is an &quot;objective&quot; (i.e. academic, scholarly) account of history. The author says outright that much of the material for the book came from astral travels or remote viewing or some other paranormal method, performed by a man named Walter Johannes Stein. Ravenscroft claims that Stein knew Hitler better than any other man. Moreover, the whole book is wrapped around a theme of the Spear of Destiny, and a legend that says that any person who possesses it will gain immeasurable power to rule and conquer. Linked with the Spear are such famous dictators as Constantine, Charlemagne, and Frederick Barbarossa.  <br />Ravenscroft describes in great detail Hitler's descent into the occult and into nationalist, racist ideals, tutored by various other evil personalities. Hitler is depicted as a man who became obsessed with the Spear, convinced that he was the reincarnation of Frederick Barbarossa, and ultimately possessed by Lucifer.  <br />Naturally, this is no mainstream history book. Its origins are so wrapped up in the Judeo-Christian mythology, and an occultic one in particular, that it's hard to say what sorts of distortions there might be. (I take it for granted that subjective means of gathering information, like remote viewing, are possible, but I also acknowledge that tremendous distortions can come about.) Ravenscroft asserts, for instance, that Tibetan lamas were recruited and set to work &quot;to harness the powers of Lucifer to the Nazi cause.&quot; He talks about Lazarus, the man raised from the dead by Christ, as actually undergoing some kind of occultic initiation which failed.  <br />At best, I can say that this is an extremely interesting story. Without knowing more about the official history of Nazi Germany and the official biography of Hitler, that's about as far as I'll go.	2000-12-10
US	52888834	R3VDZVOGNAY8QV	0425171574	616720930	The Wild Within: Adventures in Nature and Animal Teachings	Books	5	4	7	N	N	Wonderful book	Rezendes is an extraordinarily lucid and insightful writer. This loosely connected collection of essays is linked together by his own experiences: in the woods, tracking and stalking and learning about animals; in his past as a gang leader of two prominent motorcycle gangs, and later as a teacher in an ashram. The words flow quite accessibly and to the point, yet resonate with profundity.	2000-12-10
US	52888834	RCK0VSGMNGF8E	0312152175	82922075	Surfing the Himalayas: A Spiritual Adventure	Books	1	18	36	N	N	Crap	This national bestseller is written in a flowing, easygoing style and uses readily accessible imagery. Unfortunately, it also throws a bunch of New Age terms out and, although the author does attempt to make some sense of it, more often it just comes out as a jumble of crap. While reading this book, I felt like I was reading a cross between The Way of the Peaceful Warrior, which I found entertaining and insightful, and The Celestine Prophecy, which I found absolutely detestable. There are a lot of valid ideas in this book, most of which I've read in greater detail and better description elsewhere, and then there's crap like this: &quot;...Master Fwap told me that most people who have been enlightened in their previous incarnations would normally begin to regain their past-life enlightenment-if they lived at sea level-at around the age of twenty-nine, when their astrological Saturn return took place. He said that living in or near sacred mountains, because of their beneficial auric influences, often made past-life returns happen even faster.&quot; What?! Sea level? Saturn return? Auric influences?  I'm not close-minded, but Lenz makes little attempt to make believers out of non-believers, he throws out jargon like this with impunity. <br />The quote on the cover by Laurie Anderson says, &quot;A wild ride through the basics of Buddhism.&quot; Yet I don't think Buddhism has much to do with Western astrology, Atlantis, and lines of energy.  Furthermore, Lenz doesn't even mention the fundamental Buddhist precepts, the Four Noble Truths. When he does describe Buddhist concepts, I feel more comfortable because I understand, because it makes logical and philosophical sense. It's when he goes off on a wild tangent about how Atlantis sensed the pollution of the world's aura or something like that that I feel inclined to dismiss this book as nothing more than a piece of New Age fluff.	2000-12-10
US	52888834	R2QJY2WYF0QZQM	0933029012	502924355	Let Your Body Interpret Your Dreams	Books	5	53	55	N	N	Best book on dream interpretation	This is one of the most effective guides to dream interpretation that I've seen. Gendlin is a humanistic psychologist, a contemporary of Carl Rogers, and he's still around. He runs the Focusing Institute in New York and has also written a groundbreaking book titled, simply, Focusing. It is this technique of focusing - of developing a sensitivity to the physical, felt sense in the body - that marks this approach to dream interpretation as both simple and unique. In my years of interpretation, I feel that this approach of sensing one's way to a correct interpretation is far superior to pure analysis. The felt sense provides an inner foundation and a guideline for forming a right interpretation.<br />Gendlin also describes bias controls, which I also find very helpful in eliminating prejudices and wishful thinking from my interpretations. And his systematic charting of the various ways to approach dream interpretation is a good overall framework that anyone can use to interpret dreams.	2000-12-10
US	52888834	R7J9TK0XPTH5A	078688200X	65790431	Sacred Hoops: Spiritual Lessons of a Hardwood Warrior	Books	5	36	39	N	N	Spirituality does apply to the world of glitz and glamor	I am not now, nor have I ever been, a fan of basketball. But it is at least a sport that I can appreciate, which is more than I can say for American football. Nevertheless, this book is not really about basketball-it's about spirituality and selflessness through basketball. The author is Phil Jackson, formerly of the New York Knicks (and colleague of Bill Bradley) and, later, coach of the Chicago Bulls - the only coach in NBA history to pull of twin &quot;three-peats&quot; - three consecutive NBA Championships, not once but twice. Under Jackson's guidance and the leadership of Michael Jordan, Scottie Pippen, Bill Cartwright, and others, the Bulls became the best basketball team in the world.  <br />But Jackson is not focused solely on success for the sake of success. He recounts his fundamentalist upbringing, his forays into Zen Buddhism and Lakota spirituality, and his efforts to bring ideas of oneness and attunement and selfless play into an NBA dominated by ego, money, cynicism, and media hype. He describes the esoteric &quot;triangle offense&quot; that was based on those philosophical principles.  <br />I was very impressed by this book. It takes many of the principles I've learned in other places and applies it directly to something that I would normally not think of as spiritual. Moreover, Jackson and his Bulls are a powerful and very prevalent example of how spiritual principles can be applied in the real world and made into a success.  <br />Plus, there's a foreword by ex-Senator and ex-Knick Bill Bradley, and numerous stories about Jackson playing with the Knicks and coaching basketball greats. Though I'm not a basketball fan, the magnetism of personalities still fascinates me, and these personal anecdotes only add depth to the lessons Jackson conveys.	2000-12-10
US	52888834	R2K4WAIHQNVQZQ	038528859X	476728298	Rolling Thunder	Books	5	56	57	N	N	A meditation on life	Rolling Thunder was written in a way reminiscent of the Castaneda books, but to me it was fresher, more concise, and more believable.  <br />We see Rolling Thunder, a.k.a. John Pope, a medicine man of the Cherokee tribe, from the perspective of Doug Boyd, a researcher from the Menninger Foundation (in Topeka, Kansas-my hometown). In 1971, Boyd sought out Rolling Thunder to ask for his help in a study on mind-over-body control that began with East Indian mystic Swami Rama. In the process, he was drawn into the world of the Native American, fighting against violations of rights and treaties, seeking harmony with others and the earth.  <br />Rolling Thunder is a remarkable man. To him, speaking with the animals and affecting the weather is within the realm of possibility. Boyd takes us on a sober ride, describing events simply as he observed them. As any true student of self and nature knows, though, it's not the powers that matter, but rather the way of life, harmony with oneself and others, and the deeper energy in things. And from Rolling Thunder's mouth we receive some words on all of these things-on paying attention, on living in accord with surroundings, on having a good attitude no matter what happens. Not only does all of these seem more accessible than Castaneda's writings, but combined with the effort to raise awareness of the plight of reservation Indians, and the call to stop harming the earth, it seems more relevant.  <br />The book is a series of episodes and dialogue, written in such a way that the language conveys the spirit of simplicity and doesn't get in the way. The plainness may deter some readers, though, if they are looking for action and demonstration of powers. The voice is quiet and hopeful; the book is almost a meditation.	2000-12-10
US	52888834	R1UYPKJZK8RPWS	1571740236	448667917	A Toltec Path: A User's Guide to the Teachings of Don Juan Matus, Carlos Castaneda, and Other Toltec Seers	Books	5	14	16	N	N	Excellent overview of Toltec philosophy	Writers like Victor Sanchez and Ken Eagle Feather are valuable because they help to clarify, codify, and make practical what don Juan has taught through Castaneda's books. Although on the one hand, it's ultimately a barrier to further growth if you try to make something into a philosophy with certain dogmatic strictures, on the other hand, I found Castaneda's books hard to apply to my own life, until I started reading books by other Toltec writers. <br />I believe Ken Eagle Feather has a superb handle on these concepts and he does a good job in conveying what they mean.<br />On a side note, I don't believe book reviews should descend into personal name-calling.  Frankly, a lot of Castaneda's stuff could be labeled New Age crap too, and has been done so by various anthropologists and others who have investigated his life.  It depends on your point of view, and what you find valuable.  What is real?  The point is, even if don Juan was not real, how valuable was Castaneda's portrayal of him?  How much could you learn from him?  Ask Native cultures about the value of stories that cannot be independently verified or seem \\"unreal.\\"  The same, then, applies to Eagle Feather: Even if you don't believe that he has been taught by \\"the man\\" don Juan, how much can you learn from what he's written?<br />Now, in other books Eagle Feather does delve into things like chakras and out-of-body experiences and chanelling, based on his experiences with the Monroe Institute.  Depending on how much credibility the author his built with you, and how much stock you put into those phenomena, that will bias you one way or the other.  Personally, I feel that his corroboration of various Toltec concepts through diverse explorations only adds to the validity of this material. <br />Put simply: \\"A Toltec Path\\" is an excellent handbook for learning about the way of the warrior. It is not, as Eagle Feather himself says, a replacement for Castaneda's works.  Instead, it's a complement, a sort of Cliff Notes, and a very comprehensive one at that.  Indeed, I appreciate having all of the major concepts in one place.<br />Moreover, I'd have to say that I'm not actually a huge Castaneda fan, I've read less than half of his books.  But through neo-Toltec writers like Sanchez and Eagle Feather, I feel that I've taken advantage of the available information and used it in my own way to help craft my own path.  And that is invaluable.<br />I highly recommend this book.	2000-11-09
US	52888834	R10N1B1R23ZGM6	1562791168	18964918	Wilderness and Razor Wire: A Naturalist's Observations from Prison	Books	5	10	10	N	N	Spiritual in the most natural way	I have a certain fascination with prisons.  They are the most ferocious test of the human spirit, a contemporary apocalyptic vision.  One could hardly imagine any sort of wilderness connected to it, but Ken Lamberton  not only finds the wilderness in the prison but makes us believe that it  can be anywhere. <br />Lamberton is a tragic figure.  An award-winning biology  teacher shortly before he ran away with an underage student, he writes from  a prison in an Arizona desert.  Exquisite sketches accompany his  beautifully written, yet never flighty, essays.  There is just the right  mix of physical description and the spirit behind the wildlife to make it  worth reading as nature writing alone.  But more than that is the unique  frame from which he writes: the concrete walls, the wire fences, the harsh  company of inmates and guards.  Desperation pervades his words, yet even as  he lays bare his soul to reveal this to us, he also shows us the spirit and  connectedness that is possible from even the meanest of situations. <br />What  is life really about?  Prison has taught Lamberton important lessons that  he transmits to us.  After the extraneous is culled out, the wilderness  without and the wilderness within, and the relationships in life, are all  that truly matter.  And yet the simplicity is deceptive, for there are  infinite worlds of detail, and infinite heights and depths of emotion, in  the wilderness, and in its violation.  Lamberton's crime and his passion  for the wilderness intertwine so well, that one can imagine one's own  life-triumphs and tragedies all-portrayed, in metaphor, in the wild.	2000-03-03
