US	52883717	R26LW8C1U895FU	0226032027	910042507	Our Vampires, Ourselves	Books	2	19	29	N	N	Why Do Cultural Ctitics Have To Write Like This?	OK--I know that Nina Auerbach is a famous, groundbreaking feminist literary critic.  I don't disagree with many of her points in this book. (Though I'm innately suspicious of any system that fits as perfectly as hers does.  She never seems to find an example that doesn't fit her thesis--rather like an undergraduate writing a paper and discarding any evidence that doesn't fit.)  And I am interested in cultual criticism--particularly the idea that horror fiction reflects the fears, desires, and fixations of particular time periods.  This said, I found Auerbach's book tough slogging.  Why do cultural critics seem to feel that the \\"lower\\" the text they're criticizing, the more jargon-filled, pedantic, and convulted their prose style must become?  The endlessly long sentences with their multpile references and their twisting, parenthetical asides made my eyes glaze over.  Certainly Auerbach is not the worst prose stylist of any academic I've read, but this fact, itself, is an indictment of the kind of writing that gets university professors published these days.<br /><br />So, yes, there are insights and arguments in this book that make it worth reading.  But I found the experience of reading the book a rather depressing enterprise, and it made me long for clearer, livlier, and more accessible writing from theorists and literary critics.  I can't say that I'm optimistic on this count.	2005-09-21
US	52883717	R3I9V8GKIWVQLD	1578564719	443005720	What's a Christian to Do with Harry Potter?	Books	5	160	163	N	N	A book that encourages respect	I'm probably coming from a rather different place than most of the other reviewers.  I'm not a Christian, and I picked up this book after I'd agreed to read a passage from the first Harry Potter novel at a reading of banned books.  I wanted to know more about the reasons the books had been banned in the first place and a book written from a Christian perspective caught my eye.<br /><br />What really impressed me about Neal's book is how respectful it is.  It's so easy for both sides of this cultural divide to just dismiss each other--you're either a secular Satanist or you're a fundamentalist yahoo.  I think it's this lack of respect that Neal is really trying to get at.  She thinks the debate over the Harry Potter books is worth having but she wants it to be a reasonable, thoughtful, respectful debate.  The book is really a warning against some of the unthinking traps that Christians fall into when they criticize the Potter series.  But it's also a plea to take the cultural debate seriously.  She admonishes Christians for not being more serious about the debate--for simply accepting what they've heard about the books without reading them or thinking about the issues in context.  (For example, she says that, yes, there are mythical and magical creatures in the Potter stories but also points out that such creatures exist in stories by Christian authors such as C.S. Lewis, J.R.R. Tolkien, and Charles Dickens.  The point is to figure out what these creatures are doing in the context of the novels, not merely to see that there are such creatures in the books and simply stop there.)  But she also speaks to non-believers like me.  There's a passage in chapter seven where she writes:  \\"I must add a word for any reader who does not believe there are invisible and evil spirit beings seeking to influence and harm ususpecting people . . . .  Can you see how people who believe there are would rightfully be alarmed over others telling their kids, 'Don't worry.  All the witchraft and questionable practices depicted in the Harry Potter books are just fantasy.'\\"  And, I had to admit that my response was, yes, I could.<br /><br />It's this tone--of trying to get people to understand and respect both sides of the argument and both sides of the Christian/secular divide that I think makes it a really remarkable book.  Connie Neal gives me hope that Christians and secularlists can really talk to each other and not at each other.and questionable practices depicted in the Harry Potter books are just fantasy.'\\"  And, I had to admit that my response was, yes, I could.<br /><br />It's this tone--of trying to get people to understand and respect both sides of the argument and both sides of the Christian/secular divide that I think makes it a really remarkable book.  Connie Neal gives me hope that Christians and secularlists can really talk to each other and not at each other.	2005-03-31
US	52883717	R2Y188E6G5MHY8	0746023456	468048092	Dragon Quest (Usborne Fantasy Adventure)	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Part "Seek & Find," Part Logic Puzzle and Part Story	I bought this book for my eight year old because of the gorgeous illustrations.  I'm not much at all for seek and find books, but I thought he would like it.<br /><br />I found, however, that when he and I sat down together we became completely cuaght up in the book.  It is rather difficult, but I guess some kids are better at it than others because Dylan loved it and did much better than I did.<br /><br />What makes it fascinating and much more interesting than other seek & find books is that there's a story that weaves through the different pages.  It's really part seek & find, part logic puzzle and part story.  And, of course, the illustrations are beautifully done.  I thought the characters--which you really sort of get fond of after following them through the different puzzles were rather reminiscent of Lewis Caroll.<br /><br />Anyway, my son and I had a wonderful time going through the book together, and I'm definitely going to try others by the same author.	2004-10-20
US	52883717	R2YB088KBQJ3FB	0738208620	473920452	Branded: The Buying And Selling Of Teenagers	Books	4	13	15	N	N	Fresh and Disturbing Take on a Rather Tired Argument	I found it to be an excellent read, and I'm considering using some excerpts from it to spark writing and discussion in a basic writing class that I teach--a class where I'm always concerned that the readings I use are immediate, accessable and read well.<br /><br />Although the book's subject is the way that companies market to teenagers, in a sense this is only a subset of the author's larger concern with capitalism and consumer culture.  She obviously has a left wing take on this subject, although I disagree with earlier reviewers that her presentation is manipulative or unfair.  The issue isn't whether or not companies fill a demand (obviously, they do), but about the lengths to which they go to create that demand.  How you feel about this obviously depends on your politics, but Quart's viewpoint seems to me to be reasonable and valid.<br /><br />My problem is that this argument is just sort of tired.  I'm just bored of hearing the same critique of \\"consumer culture\\" over and over again.  What sets this book apart, though is its focus on marketing to children, and, in particular, the passages where Quart presents the kids' lives through their own words.  It's pretty disturbing to hear how closely they identify their own self-worth with the products that they use.  I'm not just talking about the idea that they have to conform to a certain image in order to be beautiful--again, this is old news.  But about how the almost BECOME the brand that they use.  When a teenager named Carrie, a fan of MTV's \\"Total Request Live\\" describes her loyalty to that show and to the marketing she does for The Backstreet Boys by saying, \\"I like the Boys as much as my friends and family\\"--well, there's something really disturbing about that.	2004-09-23
US	52883717	R1A6ERQ54LE7GS	0800717880	548155850	His Needs, Her Needs: Building an Affair-Proof Marriage Fifteenth Anniversary Edition	Books	2	22	42	N	N	A Very Shallow Look at Relationships	I picked this book up because my wife and I were spending a weekend with my siter-in-law and she'd brought it along but wasn't reading it.  I picked it up and read through it all that weekend with the same fascination that one might have while passing a traffic accident.  It's horrible, but you can't help but look.<br />The book is nothing if not practical.  The author says that men have a few basic needs which are different from women.  He doesn't discuss whether these needs are moral or even healthy--he just accepts that they are there and that a successful marriage will need to recognize them and negotiate them--with women learning how to fulfill men's needs (whehter they want to or not) in return for men fulfilling women's needs (whether THEY want to or not).  Of course, there's been a great deal written about gender differences, and I don't know if the different needs in this book have any basis in reality.  The author hasn't done any studies to prove his assumptions; they're only based on his experiences as a counselor--something that's a little troubling.<br />Still--even if he is right about these different sets of needs, there's something pretty shallow about saying that we need to accept our own and each other's needs whehter they're healthy for us or not.  For example, one of the trade offs that the book suggests is between sex and money.  The author says that men rely on women for sex and that women rely on men for financial security.  Even if this is true, (and I think that's debatable), are we really willing to make this trade-off?  As a man, am I really willing to say to myself, I'm only worth something in a marriage if I can keep making enough money to keep my wife from leaving me?  And is my wife's value in our relationship really to fulfill me need for sex?  Accepting this arrangement would seem to limit our ability to grow and to be vulnerable and intimate with each other.  The author's advice is to \\"cement\\" the relationship by submitting to each other's needs.  It seems to me that to really grow together as a couple and as individuals, we would need to question these needs and to find other things in each other to value.other's needs.  It seems to me that to really grow together as a couple and as individuals, we would need to question these needs and to find other things in each other to value.	2002-07-18
US	52883717	RPM5G9HFCASBV	0807843490	299353054	Reading the Romance: Women, Patriarchy, and Popular Literature	Books	4	23	28	N	N	Conflict of Interest Makes it Interesting	An interesting book and a pretty good read.  With the exception of the first chapter, which is an enlightening but pretty dry history of book publishing, the author writes with an enganging and personable style that's highly unusual for an &quot;academic&quot; book.  I picked it up thinking that I'd browse through it and found myself reading it cover to cover.  There's a bit of the usual feminist/critical studies rhetoric but it's neither bombastic enough nor pervasive enough to dampen the book's accessibility nor its credibility.<br />What keeps the book interesting is the author's ongoing engagement with a smallish group of midwestern romance readers.  The group makes up the core of her study and she cites interviews with these readers as well as statistical results from a questionnaire.  An undercurrent which runs through this book but which Radway doesn't directly address is her conflicted relationship with this group.  On the one hand, she is seems to respect them a great deal and doesn't want to dismiss them the way many romance readers have been dismissed as mindless and passive women.  Indeed, part of her analysis is that the romance novel is a complex response to power relations between men and women and that it does not simply reinforce the status quo. On the other hand, she seems to suggest that the readers she's interviewed aren't entirely aware of this agenda--that they simply read to escape.<br />Radway refers over and over again to the idea that the women she's interviewed read romances in order to experience vicariously what they are missing in their lives.  She makes a pretty interesting case, but it's significant, I think, that she never asks the women about whether or not they think they are missing anything in their lives.  Thus, though interesting, the book takes a sort of, &quot;I know what you really need and why you really read these books even if you don't&quot; mentality.  She cares about and respects these women and she listens closely to their experiences and opinions.  But she still thinks she knows their motivations better than the readers themselves.  I'm not sure it's really so much condescending as conflicted.<br />It would have been interesting to have Radway actually address this issue with the readers she interviewed or at least in an afterword to the book.  I wonder if the women she interviewed read the book and what they thought about it if they did.to their experiences and opinions.  But she still thinks she knows their motivations better than the readers themselves.  I'm not sure it's really so much condescending as conflicted.  <br />It would have been interesting to have Radway actually address this issue with the readers she interviewed or at least in an afterword to the book.  I wonder if the women she interviewed read the book and what they thought about it if they did.	2002-07-18
US	52883717	RZCE1VNUC5APY	0393307832	458011612	The University: An Owner's Manual	Books	2	17	19	N	N	Breezy style is both readable and irritating	The best thing that I can say about this book is that it's highly readable.  Rosovsky has written what is essentially a defense of higher education in the face of increasing impatience over everything from curriculum to tenure.  He takes the reader through a Dean's eye view of higher education and he concludes that criticisms are mostly a matter of misunderstandings and that things in the academy are mostly humming along fine.<br />I agree with Rosovsky that much criticism of higher education is based on misinformation; however, he never really turns a critical eye on his own institution.  For instance, he dismisses questions about the emphasis on publishing over teaching by blithely saying, nobody who isn't a good teacher would get tenure.  This is a startling statement--one that Rosovsky never backs up, and one that, frankly, just isn't true.  Nor does he examine deeper questions about publishing--like whether the pressure to publish doesn't produce a lot of garbage--articles that are driven not by the urge to say anything but by the fear that the writer won't get tenure if he doesn't find something to say.  Rosovsky's complaceny on these and other issues turns what might have been a searching, intelligent book into a collection of easy reflections.  The book is certainly not empty but neither is it entirely satisfying.	2001-04-12
US	52883717	R2SZ3YD6UUM054	0929605179	710645216	Lucky Bucky in Oz	Books	3	4	4	N	N	Some Memorable Scenes	This is the only Oz book I've ever read, so, unlike some of the reviewers, I can't compare it to either Baum's or the other authors'.  I remember picking up an old tattered hardback from my Grandmothers' shelves when I was about twelve.  The book itself wasn't that memorable, and I seem to recall that it ran out of steam by the time the travelers actually reached the Emerald City.  Still, I recall reading in facination how Bucky got to Oz (blown through the air by and exploding boiler) and in creepy horror as he and Davy Jones were swept down the underground river and into the kingdom of the gnomes.  For these scenes alone.  The version I read was also wonderfully illustrated.  For these reasons alone, this book has a special place in my heart.	2001-03-20
US	52883717	RTAE0J12E7WRS	0689318812	779107464	Tim and the Blanket Thief	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Wonderful story, beautifully illustrated.	This book has been one of my son's favorites since he was about three (he's now five).  The blanket thief (who steals children's toys and one night nab's our hero's security blanket) is wonderfully illustrated as a mysterious dark shape with a pointed hat who vanishes into smoke when Tim faces his fears.  Actually, the illustrations throughout the book are lovely--especially the dark blue scene when Tim is chasing the Blanket Thief through the empty night streets and the dark green one when he's chasing him through the forest.  &quot;The streets were dark and empty.  The woods were darker still.&quot;<br />It's also nice that, although Tim conquers his fears and becomes the hero of the story, he continues to sleep with his blanket &quot;for just a while longer.&quot;  I think it's nice that children know that, while they can eventually become the heros of their own lives, that it's still okay to hold onto their blankets (literal and metaphorical) until they're really ready to give them up.	2000-11-27
US	52883717	RXEFI1JEEC79G	1567310524	107510825	Spy Who Loved Me (The James Bond Classic Library)	Books	2	2	3	N	N	More of a romance novel than an adventure	I'd never read a James Bond novel before, but I washousesitting one weekend and this was one of the only books in thehouse.  I must say that it was very odd--not at all what I expected. I understand that the Bond films have very little to do with Ian Fleming's novels--mostly borrowing the titles and nothing more.  But I wasn't prepared for how completely different this was.  As some of the reviewers here point out, it's told from the point of view of a woman, and Bond only shows up in the last third of the novel.  That's true, but what they don't say is that in both plot and tone it's really not an adventure novel.  It has much more in common with the romance genre.  Though there is some action at the end, the story is really about the heroine's coming of age, her growing wisdom about men, and her sexual awakening and growing sense of independence--as I said, the stuff of a traditional romance novel.<br />The action in the last third of the novel is neither convincing nor very exciting.  Even Bond isn't really a very distinct character.  He's sort of the tall, dark, handsome stranger who makes the heroine a woman--in fact, he's pretty interchangable with the hero of any romance novel.  Since I'm not really a reader of romance novels, it may be unfair of me to give this novel only two stars.  If you like that sort of thing, maybe this is a good read.  But while the prose style is quite readable, I didn't think the book added up to much, and I certainly don't think it will satisfy anyone who expects a spy novel.	2000-07-27
US	52883717	RY5YCTM4972OJ	0140558195	914298684	Pigs Ahoy! (Picture Puffins)	Books	4	8	8	N	N	Great fun to read and look at	When you're a parent and you read 3 or 4 books before bedtime, finding books which are fun to read is a priority (especially when you read the same book over and over again.)  This is one that my son and I both  enjoy--about a man who goes on a cruise and finds that he's sharing his  cabin with a group of mischievous and misbehaving pigs.  Though they get in  everyone's way, he comes to love them.  Great fun to read (it's written in  verse) and fun illustrations as well.	2000-07-26
US	52883717	R2MPKIYLYUTU5D	0440224675	313045692	Hannibal	Books	3	0	1	N	N	This Time, Harris Loses his Balance	Of all Harris's novels, this is probably the most gripping read.  I enjoyed both RED DRAGON and THE SILENCE OF THE LAMBS. Neither of those books are as absorbed with the Hannibal Lecter character as this one.  They  both dealt with the idea of a serial killer trying to transform himself.  (Incidentally, there's a really fascinating analysis of these characters in  a book about American horror fiction called A DARK NIGHT'S DREAMING for  anyone interested in this kind of thing.)<br />This latest novel focuses on  Hannibal Lecter's relationship with Clarice Starling.  Lecter is typical of  great horror villains in that the reader identifies with him as a sensitive  (and even romantic) genius as much as he/she is repelled by Lecter's  violence and his sociopathic behavior.  In some ways, Lecter is not unlike  certain depictions of Dracula.  This balance is fascinating, both for the  readers and for Starling, but while Harris managed to walk the line in  earlier novels where Lecter is in the background, he can't pull it off here  where Lecter IS the story.<br />A big issue of debate in the readers'  reviews here is whether the ending works.  I won't give anything away,  except to say that I don't think it does.  In the end, Lecter has to go one  way or the other--we either end up having to sympathize and identify with  him or deplore him.  As I said, I won't tell you which way Harris goes, but  it doesn't really matter.  Neither way can work, and the second half (or at  least the last third) of the book is a disappointment.  It is a good read,  though.	2000-07-25
US	52883717	R1D4QCOGA8OB0	0140502416	630361089	The Story About Ping	Books	5	224	254	N	N	Provokes Young Readers' Imaginations Without Oversimplifying	Like many of the reviewers, this is a book I loved as a child and that I've returned to now that I'm a parent.  While it has a moral--that many times, simply accepting an umpleasant consequence is better than trying to  avoid it--it's not preachy about it.  In fact, what's really nice about the  storyis that it's not Ping's fault that he will be the last duck to board  the boat (and thus get a whack upon his back).  His head was below the  water at the time, and he couldn't have heard the boat master's call.  I  think this is what gave me a thrill as a boy.  I knew that the world wasn't  fair and that sometimes punishments were unjust.  This is what made me  identify with Ping.<br />And the book really taps into a young child's fears.  I remember being thrilled that Ping ran away instead of accepting his  punishment--what small child hasn't fantasized about running away?  And I  remember thinking how terrifying to wake up and find that you were totally  lost in the wide world--what child's greatest fear isn't that sort of  separation?<br />I think that's the greatest thing about this story.  It's not  a tidy, pat treatment of issues like children's anxieties or the value of  accepting the consequences of your actions.  Rather, it's a tale that  provokes imagination--that taps into those fears and ideas without  simplifying them.  And there are too few books that do this  well.<br />Incidentally, in terms of age, I've just begun reading this book to  my four year old, and I think that's been a good age for him to start  appreciating it.  But I can imagine a much older child enjoying it as well.	2000-07-24
US	52883717	R2BX5QVBRPZ9I4	0451188462	562576523	Desperation	Books	3	20	21	N	N	Richly readable but ultimately unsatisfying	Even the worst of Stephen King's novels are engrossing reads.  That's probably the best description of this one.  King wastes little time setting up the action or providing any depth to his characters.  (In fact most of  the characters in this novel are &quot;types&quot; recycled from his  earlier work.  There's the &quot;cynical artist struggling for  redemption&quot;--see THE STAND or MISERY.  There's the &quot;ordinary boy  with the special gift&quot;--see, well, any number of King's books.  You  get the idea.)  I think his true genius is that his books are gripping in  spite of these shortcomings.<br />Still, this one really feels hollow after  it's done.  King has an interesting idea.  Maybe the worst  &quot;monster&quot; or all is really God.  It's not a new idea for  him--there's a line in THE STAND where one of the characters talks about  God always requiring a sacrifice.  &quot;His hands are bloody with  it.&quot;  And the idea of the Old Testament God as a monster has real  possibilites.  But it's an idea that's raised here rather than really  explored.  And what's worse, King ACTS like he's explored it--acts like  he's really said something.  So you wind up at the end of the book feeling,  &quot;Huh--did I miss something?&quot;<br />As is the case with so much of  King's writing, the ending is a disappointment.  It's rather like King gets  these wonderful ideas for fiction, and he spends all his time and energy  getting into these ideas and working them out.  But they don't actually go  anywhere.<br />Still other questions remain unanswered in the novel.  Who is  &quot;Tak&quot; (the demon/monster that God wants destroyed)?  How did he  wind up in Desperation?  The whole thing is richly readable but ultimately  unsatisfying.<br />Oh--one more thing.  There's this odd overlap with the  characters from THE REGULATORS.  DESPERATION has some of the same  characters--except they're not the same.  In DESPERATION,the cop who  terrorizes desperation has the same name as the cop who tries to fight the  evil in THE REGULATORS.  And the Carver family is in both novels--except  that the names of the kids in one book are the names of the parents in  another.  And the monster, Tak, appears in both novels, except that its  powers are slightly different in each.<br />I'm not sure what the point of all  this is.  King is working out two slightly different versions of the same  fantasy?  Like much else in the novel, this is a tantalizing idea, but not  much is made of it.  (I'd be interested to read about what other readers  think about this.)e name as the cop who tries to fight the  evil in THE REGULATORS.  And the Carver family is in both novels--except  that the names of the kids in one book are the names of the parents in  another.  And the monster, Tak, appears in both novels, except that its  powers are slightly different in each.<br />I'm not sure what the point of all  this is.  King is working out two slightly different versions of the same  fantasy?  Like much else in the novel, this is a tantalizing idea, but not  much is made of it.  (I'd be interested to read about what other readers  think about this.)	2000-06-28
US	52883717	R1Q1I7DBYBO1YO	0842329218	726324360	Tribulation Force: The Continuing Drama of Those Left Behind (Left Behind No. 2)	Books	1	14	25	N	N	Aniti-Catholic?  It's anti-everyone!	I'm amused at how many of the reviewers (as well as one of the authors) take up the debate of whether or not this series is anti-Catholic.  On the one hand, I didn't find any &quot;the Pope is really the agent of the  Devil&quot; a la Bob Jones University sentiment.  On the other hand, yes,  Catholics are depicted as duped, stupid, selfish, or evil.<br />But to  object to this misses the point.  In the worldview of the authors and the  characters, only one thing matters:  whether or not you believe their  particular brand of Christianity.  The world is simply divided into people  who are right and people who are wrong.  Of course, most Catholics fall  into the latter category, but so does practically everyone else in the  world.  Why aren't any of the reviewers objecting that the book is  anti-Jewish or anti-Budhhist or anti-athiest.  (Unless, of course, most of  the reviewers don't think there's anything wrong with these  sentiments.)<br />Of course, the &quot;Left Behind&quot; novels are based on  the idea that everyone in the world who doesn't share the authors'  religious beliefs is either mislead or just evil.  But you knew the premise  when you started reading them.  To object to it is rather like listening to  a CD by 2 Live Crew and saying, &quot;Hey, some of these lyrics are  dirty!&quot;<br />What's disturbing to me about this series isn't the  &quot;We're all saved, the rest of you are evil&quot; worldview.  Hey,  everyone's entitled to their beliefs--even fundamentalists.  It's the  authors' inability to imagine how people might think differently.  For  people who are concerned for the souls of the unsaved, the authors seem to  have very little interest in how we un-saved think.  Some reviewers  complain that the main characters in this series have very little depth,  but Buck and Chloe and company are positively Shakespearean compared to the  various unbelievers in the novel!  We spend countless pages in the minds of  this one group of people who might as well be interchangeable for all the  differences in their personal struggles.  But we get no credible internal  pictures of how unbelievers deal with events.  (The few accounts we do get  are short and cartoonish--Hattie's explanation of why all the abortionists  are sad to be out of work in the first book is a good example--and none of  them come from the perspective of the unbelieving character).<br />All of this  leads me to conclude that the authors are either incapable or uninterested  in how people with different ideas and beliefs think.  Strange perspective  for someone who's interested in saving souls!t as well be interchangeable for all the  differences in their personal struggles.  But we get no credible internal  pictures of how unbelievers deal with events.  (The few accounts we do get  are short and cartoonish--Hattie's explanation of why all the abortionists  are sad to be out of work in the first book is a good example--and none of  them come from the perspective of the unbelieving character).<br />All of this  leads me to conclude that the authors are either incapable or uninterested  in how people with different ideas and beliefs think.  Strange perspective  for someone who's interested in saving souls!	2000-04-08
US	52883717	R1HA5A655252NJ	0345424719	685444613	A Widow for One Year	Books	3	10	12	N	N	One third of a great novel	The first third of this novel--Eddie's account of his affair with Marion when he was sixgteen--the engine that drives the rest of the book--is magical--on a par with THE WORLD ACCORDING TO GARP.  It's darkly  imaginative, charming, and impossible to put down.  Unfortunately, the rest  of the novel doesn't live up to the beginning.  It's still an interesting  read.  All of the characters have gotten stuck in some way or  another--unable to really get on with their lives as the result of their  past.  It's interesting reading to see how everything works out--but Irving  doesn't hold me the way he does at the beginning of the novel.	1999-12-22
US	52883717	RSAL70GJJ4Q88	0140167188	294881452	The Road to Wellville	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Dickension - If Dickens Had A Wicked Streak	I don't know if this is Boyle's best novel, but it's the one I've enjoyed the most.  I think the reviewer who called it Dickension is right--and I think that Boyle has consciously immitated Dickens' style in his historical  fiction.  The sprawling plot, the larger-than-life characters--all remind  me of Dickens.  But what Boyle does with this material is certainly  un-Dickension.  No, smarmy melodramas wrapped up with felicitous  coincidences here!  Actually, Boyle reminds me a bit of John Irving--also a  conscious immitator of Dickens.  If you like John Irving's novels and you  don't mind a bit of wickedness--well, more than a bit, really, then you  might like THE ROAD TO WELLVILLE.<br />This may also be Boyle's most readable  novel.  Although his style is engaging in all of the stuff I've read by  him, this novel probably requires the least of his readers--I loved WATER  MUSIC as well, but some my find that one a bit more perplexing.	1999-12-22
US	52883717	RTTSJTT7KZ86N	0140131671	168179964	East Is East (Contemporary American Fiction)	Books	4	9	9	N	N	Funny, Beautifully Written, Ulitmately Dark	T.C. Boyle is a wonderful writer, but his view of humanity certainly is a dark one.  Yes, the characters--except for Hiro Tanaka--are shallow, but I kept wanting them to be something better than they were.  If the book were  filled with nothing more than shallow characters, then it wouldn't be such  a gripping read.  But they have moments of promise.  The fact that they  don't live up to these moments is what makes Boyle's worldview so  depressing and what leaves such a bad taste in my mouth at the end.  But  that's arguing with Boyle as a philospher--as a writer, he's  superb.<br />Boyle takes a special glee in the debunking of romantic myths,  institutions and characters.  In THE ROAD TO WELLVILLE it's the Kellog  cereal empire.  In WATER MUSIC it's the British exploration of Africa.  Still, his attitude towards his fellow man seems a bit warmer in THE ROAD  TO WELLVILLE (though not in WATER MUSIC).  Both of these are great novels  as well.	1999-12-18
US	52883717	R23N7R0ZBZUBZS	1565073649	779748281	Left Behind	Books	1	6	12	N	N	Boring Fiction-And What's Worse, Boring Spiritually	The concept of this novel--one day the world simply finds that millions have vanished--that &quot;the Rapture&quot; of the Book of Revelations has come to pass--is an interesting one--and not just for believers.  It's a  fascinating &quot;what if?&quot; scenario--although for fundamentalists, I  realize the question is not &quot;what if?&quot; but  &quot;when?&quot;<br />What if the world woke up one morning to find that this  literal interpreation of the Bible were true?  What would people's  reactions be?  How would they cope?  What questions would they ask  themselves?  How would they live in a world where the rules of the game  (for non-Christians, anyway) would have changed so dramatically?  What  about the many good people who had believed that they had lived just lives  and sought the truth in their own way?  How would they react?  How would  the world react to realize that the only people who had vanished were  Christians--and mostly fundamentalists to boot?<br />All of these are  interesting questions, no matter what your beliefs.  Unfortunately, the  novel doesn't really deal with them.  We see world events unfold almost  entirely from the perspective of a few people who come from the same  background--they think of themselves as Christians, but they haven't really  internalized their religion--Christ isn't really an integral part of their  lives.  Mostly this novel deals with how they come to terms with the fact  that this realization may have come too late for them.  Anyone with any  different perspective or experience is simply left out of the novel.  Nor  does the novel deal with how such a revelation would affect the spiritual  culture of the world.<br />Even the spiritual crises of those characters we do  see are perfunctory.  Everyone takes a deep look at his or her life (or as  deep as you can get from a few pages) and comes up &quot;born again.&quot;  There's little if any drama or depth to these experiences.<br />On top of this  there's very little drama in the novel.  One would expect a novel about the  Apocalypse to be gripping--at least in terms of action if not the depth of  its characters.  But most of the action (with the excpetion perhaps of the  novel's final pages) is rather plodding.  The authors can't even make the  sudden disappearance of millions of people very interesting!<br />I could go  on about how the novel stereotypes non-Christians in ridiculous ways.  (Abortionists are upset that there are out of work because there are no  more fetuses to abort.)  Or about feeding paranoid delusions.  (Even before  the Rapture, it's revealed that the world is really run by a secret  association of bankers).  But it's no revelation (pardon the expression)  that non-fundamentalists would be offended by these things.<br />Of course,  &quot;Left Behind&quot; fails as propoganda.  If most of the Christians in  the world disappeared, I'd probably question my belief system, but that's  the premise of this novel--not its argument.  But it also fails as fiction.ittle drama in the novel.  One would expect a novel about the  Apocalypse to be gripping--at least in terms of action if not the depth of  its characters.  But most of the action (with the excpetion perhaps of the  novel's final pages) is rather plodding.  The authors can't even make the  sudden disappearance of millions of people very interesting!<br />I could go  on about how the novel stereotypes non-Christians in ridiculous ways.   (Abortionists are upset that there are out of work because there are no  more fetuses to abort.)  Or about feeding paranoid delusions.  (Even before  the Rapture, it's revealed that the world is really run by a secret  association of bankers).  But it's no revelation (pardon the expression)  that non-fundamentalists would be offended by these things.  <br />Of course,  &quot;Left Behind&quot; fails as propoganda.  If most of the Christians in  the world disappeared, I'd probably question my belief system, but that's  the premise of this novel--not its argument.  But it also fails as fiction.	1999-12-15
US	52883717	R2M3ZILK3E5P2S	0226500608	200661390	A River Runs Through It	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Maclean's Words Read Beautifully	Most people probably come to this story having seen and liked the Robert Redford movie.  I had anyway.  What's astonishing is how wonderfully it holds up.  Maclean's words read beautifully right up until the haunting  final paragraph.  As poetic a writer as I can think of--except, perhaps for  Louise Erdrich.<br />Don't listen to reviews that urge you to skip the  sections on fly-fishing.  I've never fished a day in my life, but to skip  these sections is to miss some of the funniest parts of the story--and to  miss how  Norman, in trying to understand the river, is really trying to  figure out his relationship with his father and brother.	1999-01-23
US	52883717	R34VM36PTTTVNL	0807046175	476842004	The Sacred Hoop: Recovering the Feminine in American Indian Traditions	Books	4	45	64	N	N	Valuable but annoying.	Being a white male (although one who's interested in Native American literature) certainly influenced my reaction to this book.  That said, I think it's invaluable reading--probably a &quot;must read&quot; for those  really interested in the field of Native American studies.  I found it  extremely interesting and useful.  I also found it unsettling and even  offensive in places.  In spite of attacking white culture for reducing  everything to ethnocentric formulas (a point she illustrates very  persuasively), Allen seems to me to do the same thing throughout the book.  While criticizing white academics for robbing Native Americans of thier  complexity as individuals, she tends to see every possible issue through a  polarized perspective--Native American=Good, White culture=bad.  Doesn't  this, in fact, rob Native Americans of their complexity as individuals and  lead to the very romanticizing that Allen objects to?<br />Still, as  irritating as I find this reductive way of arguing, I have to admit that  this is a very valuable book.	1999-01-11
US	52883717	R1CZ2HOGZTF6JF	0140086838	559196313	Ceremony (Contemporary American Fiction Series)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	This book seems to be misunderstood	Whether you like this novel or not (personally, I think it's a masterpiece), you ought to be set straight on one thing.  Silko does NOT blame white people for Tayo's problems.  Some of the reviewers at this site  have simply got that point wrong.  She goes out of the way to explain that  many of the characters' hatred of the white people is misdirected.  Tayo  only begins to recover when he sees the whole picture--when he realizes  that until they understand their relationship to the land and to their  communities, both whites and Indians will be lost.  A wonderful message in  a truly remarkable book.	1999-01-11
US	52883717	RBKLCMZXKF2PZ	1570030707	97199310	A Dark Night's Dreaming: Contemporary American Horror Fiction (Understanding Contemporary American Literature)	Books	3	8	8	N	N	Uneven quality, but two of the chapters are excellent.	In the past few years there seems to have been an explosion of commentary on horror fiction, but the quality of that commentary has been uneven.  Some works seem more interested in &quot;justifying&quot; horror as a  legitmate genre--they do more cheerleading and gushing than really  insightful writing.  I find much commentary on King to fall into this  category (particularly, Winter's THE ART OF DARKNESS and some commentary on  the genre done by Clive Barker).  Others are so full of inflated scholarly  jargon that it's hard to fight your way through the prose to figure out  what the ideas are.  Nina Auerbach's OUR VAMPIRES, OURSELVES comes to mind  here.<br />A DARK NIGHT'S DREAMING falls somewhere in the middle.  For the  most part, this collection is quite readable, but the quality of the essays  is uneven.  I found little new or insightful in the background essays on  the genre or on the influence of film, and that was disappointing.  I was  also disappointed in the chapter on King.  On the other hand, I thought two  of the chapters were very good--the one on William Peter Bladdy--which  mixed some biographical background with commentary on the novel and the  movie adaption of THE EXORCIST quite skillfully.  And the chapter on Thomas  Harris which really led me to think about THE RED DRAGON and THE SILENCE OF  THE LAMBS in a different light--and especially to think about the  popularity of &quot;serial killer&quot; fiction and how it fits into the  horror genre.<br />One could hope for a better collection overall, but this  one certainly had its moments.	1999-01-10
US	52883717	RJGRB35XC03VP	0195050673	447171842	Dreadful Pleasures: An Anatomy of Modern Horror	Books	4	23	23	N	N	Best intro to the horror genre that I've read.	There's a lot of horror criticism and commentary floating around out there these days, but Twitchell's book is still one of the best I've read.  In fact, I wish he'd update it since it's pretty old--I think it ends with the  late seventies.<br />Not everyone will agree with his approach which is  unapologetically Freudian.  He sees horror as a morality tale, instructing  readers and viewers (too book looks at both films and fiction) in what  sexual behavior is appropirate.  While this approach may put people off,  I'd urge them to keep reading.  Even where you may not agree with  Twitchell, his arguments are very interesting and worth considering.  What's more, this is a pretty readable book, and that's refreshing in these  days of &quot;culture studies&quot; where academics can't seen to write  books without spouting jargon like &quot;poststructuralist feminist  hegemonic non-essentialism.&quot;<br />The book focuses mostly on kinds of  monsters--particularly:  the vampire, the shape-shifter, and the dead-thing  brought to life (i.e., the vampire, the werewolf, and Frankenstein's  creature).	1999-01-10
US	52883717	R2CO3T1XATC22Z	0061053678	818856048	Clive Barker's A-Z Horror	Books	1	1	1	N	N	HORROR-IBLY Disappointing	Glossy, high-concept, yes!  Satisfying, high-content, not even close!  This book looks lovely but has almost nothing to say about horror, and that's too bad.  Barker is certainly one of the most influential horror  writers alive, and he's also quite a personality.  But this book feels like  it was thrown together with very little work on Barker's part.  The entries  are all short enough and sufficiently eclipsed by the artwork--which IS  impressive--that Barker gets by without saying very much about any of them.  What's worse, he has an irritating way of sounding profound without  actually having anything of substance to say.  I can't imagine anyone  coming away from this book having learned anything from it or thinking  about horror differently than they did when they opened it up (although  perhaps it would bring new names to their attention).<br />All of this is  disappointing because, as I've said, Barker is a very influential figure in  the genre.  He's also quite controversial.  Readers have a right to expect  better from him than they get here.	1999-01-10
US	52883717	R2YP13373EXK4Z	0425104338	807841356	Danse Macabre	Books	3	66	72	N	N	Good book for readers just getting into horror criticism.	As many of the other reviews here imply, whether or not you'll like DANSE MACABRE really depends on how much you're interested in reading what and how people think about literature.  Obviously, being a fan of horror  stories doesn't mean you like to read about what people think about horror,  and from the reviews people wrote here, I'd say they expected to read a  Stephen King novel.<br />Still, this seems to me like a good book for people  who don't want to get too deep into literary critism but would like to  think about horror at another level.  The book's best feature is King's  breezy readable style.  I'm surprised at the people who had a hard time  getting through it because it's an extremely readable book.  (Again, I can  only guess it's because these people don't like this kind of book--they  bought it expecting something else). I've used this book in a course I've  taught on horror film and fiction, and it's been pretty well received by my  students.  The drawbacks (if you think of them as drawbacks) are:<br />1.  King has little to say about his own fiction or the many film versions of  it.<br />2.  It jumps all over the place.  King does have some intersting  things to say about novels like FRANKENSTEIN and DRACULA but not all that  much.  That's fair enough--this book is as much an account of what makes  horror interesting for King as it is about the horror genre--but it leaves  me wanting more.<br />Good book for someone who's just getting into reading  about horror as a genre, but probably less than satisfying to somebody who  wants more.  I'd actually recommend Twitchell's DREADFUL PLEASURES as a  better introduction to horror--but I'd bet people who were bored with this  book would also hate that one (even though I think it's quite readable).	1999-01-10
US	52883717	R16K8XBIKNTK2R	0440503531	649692136	The Ultimate Dracula	Books	2	1	5	N	N	Nice art, mediocre stories	The books in this series--The Ultimate Dracula, Frankenstein, Werewolf,  etc.--are striking for their cover art but disappointing in their story  selection.  They're eclectic enough--including stories by established  writers and little-known authors and varying widely in tone.  But none of  them really stands out.  There must be better collections out there.	1998-09-23
US	52883717	RVC5C36SEGLLB	0451167740	701965547	Stephen King: The Art of Darkness: The Life and Fiction of the Master of Macabre	Books	3	7	10	N	N	Interesting, readable, but not all that insightful.	This is an interesting collection of essays on King's early novels--from  &quot;Carrie&quot; (1974) through &quot;The Talisman&quot; (1984).  It's  got some interesting things to say about images and structures of the  novels--I particularly enjoyed his comparison between Jack Sawyer in  &quot;The Talisman&quot; and Huck Finn.  The essays include comments from  both from interviews with the author and quoted from other sources.  But  Winter is really more of a fan than a critic, and his praise tends to be a  bit too gushing and somewhat less critical than I would hope.  A readable  book and interesting if you're into King and horror commentary.  But I'm  still waiting for a more insightful commentary on King's work.	1998-09-23
US	52883717	R1ZYSO3QQV7N8K	0452266696	607418050	The Conquest of Paradise: Christopher Columbus and the Columbian Legacy	Books	4	11	17	N	N	Thought-Provoking, Readable, Ideologically Motivated	Unquestionably a book with a left-wing political bias, but what a fascinating read! Sale tries to imagine the mindset of Columbus's contemporaries in order to explain their bewilderment and hostility when faced with the New World.  I found his discussion of Europeans' attitudes toward wilderness and the connection to Biblical traditions absolutely fascinating.  The title &quot;Conquest of Paradise&quot; isn't just a catchy and apocolyptic phrase.  It refers to the Europeans' sense that they had fallen from paradise and in the process fallen from nature and what the consequences were of these beliefs when they made contact with the Americas.  The later chapters on how history reshaped our image of Columbus are far less interesting.  Sale has been criticized for his political bias and particularly for his ideas on ecology--many of which figure largely in this book.  Being neither a historian nor an ecologist, I can't comment on them, but this book is definitely worth a read regardless.	1998-05-08
US	52883717	R3HJHPGIUVQCJG	006092585X	826915350	The Bingo Palace	Books	3	11	16	N	N	Bits are wonderful, but still my least favorite of Erdrich's	Erdrich's novels are all about the same characters and setting, and people and stories overlap and intertwine.  But this is the only novel that doesn't feel complete in and of itself.  Parts of the book are simply wonderful--particularly, Lipsha's account of how he came to get a tatoo.  Worth the price of admission for that story alone--but still, for an Erdrich fan, a bit of a disappointment.	1998-03-13
US	52883717	R3177YN3GZ71QQ	0140086838	559196313	Ceremony (Contemporary American Fiction Series)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Wonderful, gentle novel of healing.	The structure of this novel may put off some readers--there are many flashbacks, and pieces of short, traditional stories are woven into the main narrative.  And there is much in the first half of the book that is painful.  But as the novel progresses, as the reader becomes part of the ceremony, something remarkable happens--pieces fit into place as healing becomes sickness.  A wonderful, gentle novel--very different from Silko's ALMANAC OF THE DEAD.	1998-03-13
