US	52883098	R3HQQR03VZO45Z	9622018602	930519579	Food Plants of China	Books	5	16	17	N	Y	Great new reference work	If the average fine book gets five stars, this should get at least 50.  Many of us have been waiting for decades, with little hope, for a real ethnobotany of China.  This book fulfills our dreams, at least as far as food plants go--and Dr. Hu has already done a book on medical plants. The present book gives botanical accounts of hundreds of plants, many of them obscure--in fact, many are here reported as food plants for the first time. It also gives brief accounts of uses, and of major varieties of cultivated plants.  Hu also gives a long section on bupin--supplements, plants with tonic and strengthening action in traditional Chinese medicine.  This study alone could be a blockbuster book in its own right.  Bupin plants were almost unknown before in the English-language literature, except for references--cryptic to the nonexpert, and botanically unsatisfying to the expert--in Chinese herbal medicine books.   <br />     The book gives dozens of excellent recipes, mostly for using the bupin.  I can testify that they are authentic and well done.  Some of the results taste like medicine, but most are wonderful teas or soups. <br />     Even this book cannot give all the food plants of China!  I am aware of several more, most (but not all) obscure frontier items.  However, this book covers everything of much significance.   <br />     Mistakes are few, except for typos, of which there are far too many for a major university press (shame on Harvard).  The only substantive mistake that will confuse anyone is the use of the terms \\"Chinese gin\\" or \\"rice gin\\" to refer to \\"jiou,\\" Chinese alcoholic drinks.  Gin is grain neutral spirits flavored with juniper, and does not exist in China except as an expensive import from the western world.  Jiou can be \\"Chinese wine\\" (technically a still ale made from grain--rice or millets-- with various inoculants) or distilled liquor, known by such terms as maotai and sanshu, and technically a whiskey or vodka--it is usually made from sorghum, millet, or sweet potatoes. So we are left not knowing what sort of liquor Hu means.  All we know is that it isn't gin.  (In most of the bupin cases I've run into personally, it's distilled grain alcohol, basically a sort of whiskey.) When you make the recipes in the book, be sure to use Chinese \\"wine\\" when she says \\"sherry\\" and Chinese distilled jiou (maotai or the like) when she says \\"gin.\\" <br />     Everyone interested seriously in Chinese food or botany needs this book.	2005-09-22
US	52883098	R11DOK7SDKHCWG	0743243595	478741322	A Vanished World: Medieval Spain's Golden Age of Enlightenment	Books	5	73	80	N	N	Tolerance and Spanish history	This book is a super good read.  It is popular history at its most entertaining.  However, it is much more than that; it is a passionate plea for tolerance, and especially for religious tolerance.  This is, of course, very timely, since the world today is sinking into the same religious hatreds that ruined Spain in the last centuries covered by this book. <br />     For more than seven centuries, Christianity and Islam split the Iberian peninsula between them, with Jews forming a third major religious community.  Sometimes there was \\"convivencia\\" (successful living-together); usually there was fighting, but at least there was mutual learning.  Much of modern European civilization came from Islam, mostly via Spain--everything from the lute (al'ud in Arabic) to saffron (az-zafran) to the works of Aristotle and Galen, which survived largely in Arabic translations and had to be reintroduced to west Europe after the Dark Ages.  For centuries, Spain was a vast, wide-open pipeline, siphoning civilization to the west.  This story is repressed and hidden in too many standard histories. <br />     I hope that Lowney's book gets many people interested in this amazing period of history.  Readers will want to follow up by looking up the more serious literature.  Excellent advanced histories and art studies are available.  I would especially recommend the poetry:  the unbelievably beautiful Spanish, Catalan and Galician lyrics that delighted the Christians, and the soaringly romantic or darkly brooding poems of the Arabic masters.  (And there were, inevitably, even some poems written in both:  Arabic poems with rather mangled Spanish verses interspersed.) Latin/Spanish and Arabic ideas of fine writing, as well as ideas of love and loss and beauty, cross-fertilized each other, producing some of the most musical sounds and dramatic images in all literature. Many excellent anthologies are available.  Look them up on Amazon! <br />	2005-05-31
US	52883098	RP5L5IQE4EV2P	0674013476	614606358	Politics of Nature: How to Bring the Sciences into Democracy	Books	4	53	57	N	Y	Challenging new views of politics	This difficult and challenging book provides a vision of a whole new politics, and, more important, a whole new \\"common world\\"--the totality, the cosmos, that we humans and nonhumans all share.   <br />     The book begins inauspiciously, at least for English-language readers, by misusing the term \\"political ecology\\" rather badly, and doing some mild slander in the process.  For instance (p. 20):  \\"It [political ecology] claims to defend nature for nature's sake--and not as a substitute for human egotism--but in every instance, the mission it has assigned itself is carried out by humans and is justified bythe well-being, the pleasure, or the good conscience of a small number of carefully selected humans--usually American, male, rich, educated, and white.\\"  From this and further points, it becomes obvious that Latour is talking about old-fashioned environmental politics of the 1950s and 1960s, and insultingly mischaracterizing even that.  Women and European thinkers and indigenous peoples and others excluded by Latour were actively involved from the beginning.  More to the point, \\"political ecology\\" has a definite meaning in English:  the branch of anthropology (and, now, geography and political science) that studies, generally from a critical point of view, political impacts on indigenous people and their environments, and on the global community.  This field arose in the 1970s in reaction against many of the very things Latour denouces.  Latour never discusses this field at all. <br />     He also denounces Science, without making clear until later that he means not actual scientific practice, but the sort of dogmatic, ex-cathedra, It's All Facts stuff that the media love and that real scientists often hate. <br />     Finally, he admits to a skeptical position about Facts.  This has led to his being labeled a wild-eyed constructionist in some quarters.  He pulls sharply back from such a position, explaining that he is fine with reality; the problem is that all the interesting questions in environmental politics are not yet to the \\"fact\\" stage.  In regard to genetically modified organisms, to take an extreme case, we don't have a clue what these new life forms will do to humans or to the planet; the scientists are mystified, and cannot speak with authority.  Other current world problems--stopping AIDS, dealing with global warming, understanding the role of biodiversity--are also very much in play.  So sciences evolve in the midst of public discourses. <br />     Finally, Latour shares two vices with many French philosophes:  he writes in a turgid and neologistic style, and he buries much of his best stuff in the footnotes.  Do not under any circumstances miss the footnotes if you read this book!  Even if you skim it!  <br />    Readers, do not be put off. Persist.  There is good stuff to come.  <br />     First, Latour destroys the concept of \\"nature,\\" i.e. the unity of stuff that isn't people and thus is objective and has no voice.  He sees \\"natures\\" instead:  all those disparate things out there--elephants, rivers, stars--that have their own identities, and that have a voice or need a voice in the collective.  Next, he does the same for science:  he speaks of sciences, not Science.  Certainly, whatever may have once unified physics, political science, and everything in between is now rather worn. Sciences is indeed preferable usage.   <br />     Then things get really interesting.  If all those natures have their voices, and all those sciences can give them a voice that other humans can understand (i.e. explain what they are and what they might need), we can take them into account in politics.  Politicians will have to figure out how to include them in the collective enterprise.  Economists will have to re-do economics to take into account the principle that nonhumans are (in some sense--to be debated) part of the action, not mere objects of action.  Most interesting of all, moralists will have to face the disappearance of a \\"nature\\" that is beyond and indifferent to the ethical universe.  Nonhumans will have to be treated as ends, like humans (Latour is a Kantian, at least at some level).  How much we can do to them will have to be decided democratically in the future; the point now is that we can't just trash them for no good reason.  (At first I was afraid, when he talked about eliminating the facts/values distinction, that he really meant that; no, he means we have to take both into account at every stage in ongoing debates and researches.  Medical researchers do that already.  At least the good ones do.) <br />     Latour analogizes life to parliament.  We have had a bicameral legislature with Nature as one house, Society made up of various cultures on the other.  (He takes anthropologists to task for believing in this, and opposing a chaos of relativized cultures to a \\"mononature.\\"  Not quite fair.  Most of us in anthro are somewhat beyond that.)  We humans and nonhumans now need an upper house of perplexity and consultation--i.e., trying to figure out what is going on--and a lower house of hierarchy and institution--i.e., of prioritizing and deciding what to do (given what is going on, and our inevitable uncertainty about it).  The cosmos, the common world, gets built by constant work by these two \\"houses.\\"  I like this image. <br />     After discussing in detail what the scientists, moralists, and all can bring to this, Latour ends with an all too vague overview of the future.  The shining city on the hill is visible only through mists at a thousand miles' distance.  Maybe, at this stage, we can do no better. <br />     Latour ends with some notes on anthropology, including remarks on how similar his vision is to that of the Amazonian Native Americans.  I, too, am struck by similarities; Latour's view is strangely like that of the First Nations of the Northwest Coast of North America.  For them, every animal, plant, and rock has its spirit, and all these spirits are partof society, just like humans.  We constantly interact and communicate with them, and have to take them into account (a Latourian phrase) as persons--not human persons, but real persons nevertheless.  Shorn of the literal belief in spirits, this is pretty much Latour's view.  <br />     Many Latour-like ideas are appearing, perhaps in more prosaic and tentative form, in other writers' work.  The latest issue of SCIENCE has a number of articles on bringing sciences, politics, and values together in an ongoing exploration.  Society seems really to be groping toward Latour's common world.	2005-05-26
US	52883098	R35YC8U89EIQZJ	0813339367	683590358	Man the Hunted: Primates, Predators, and Human Evolution	Books	5	21	22	N	N	People as Prey	This is an excellent and balanced book about humans as prey for other animals. It is at a \\"popular\\" level, but professionals will be interested in much of the data. The authors marshal evidence of everything from eagles to hyenas eating people and other primates, and point out that the predator universe back when people were evolving was much more impressive than now--sabretooth cats the size of bears, with fangs over six inches long, abounded.  Here in California, we had lions almost twice the size of African lions; wolves as big as St. Bernards; and other friendly fauna. <br />    Obviously, early hominids were more hunted than hunting.  The rise of brain size clearly went along with a rise in hunting and in self-protecting ability, but I was surprised to find out how many people get eaten even today. <br />     The authors deconstruct the myth of the violent chimp, and subject claims of human aggressiveness to some deflation.  A point they could make more clearly is that hunting has nothing to do with intraspecies aggression; just watch a cat--the brain and behavior mechanisms of hunting have to be quite different from those for intraspecies fighting.  Hunting did not make humans fierce to each other.  Probably, group rivalry did that. <br />     My wife recalls from her Peace Corps days in Ethiopia the need to stay locked in one's house at night, because of the hyenas; they ate about one person per day in Addis Ababa.  An acquaintance, noted for his arrogance, went swimming in the Nile in spite of local warnings about crocodiles.  He was last seen disappearing slowly, feet first, down a large Nile croc.  Local people watched helplessly from the bank; the river was a churning mass of huge crocs.  Eventually they could venture out and catch the offending croc--too late.  Another Peace Corps worker visited the site, and found the locals selling souvenir photos of the croc cut open with the unfortunate Peace Corps volunteer's body parts being cut out of its stomach.  The story is still used as a cautionary tale.... Yes, humans are prey.	2005-04-29
US	52883098	RP90M878Y5I6W	0124730701	904918190	Nature's Music: The Science of Birdsong	Books	5	31	31	N	Y	Comprehensive Bird Song	This volume brings together the findings of the dramatic bird song research in the last 50 years.  The research was launched by W. H. Thorpe in the 1950s, but it was his student Peter Marler who turned the agenda into an explosion of work and exciting findings.  Marler and his students have energized not only biology, but psychology, linguistics, and evolutionary biology.  Key results are summarized in this huge volume, dedicated to the memory of the late Luis Baptista, one of Marler's early students.   <br />     Some particularly dramatic findings of the last 50 years include the widespread existence of learned song-dialects; the importance of learning in general; the ability of many birds to sing two notes at once; the many purposes to which song is put; and the degree to which birds are conscious of meanings and structures.  Before the Marler revolution, biologists usually thought of birds as \\"birdbrains,\\" driven solely by instinct or primitive stimulus-response learning.  Now we know birds learn very complicated songs, often from other species, and plan ahead to accomplish their goals by varied communication strategies.  They aren't as smart as humans or apes, but they are far smarter than we used to think we were.  They continue to surprise us. <br />     Bird song and bird society can be useful simple models for us; they show how relatively complex systems can evolve, and provide ideas for how human (proto-)language and society might have evolved a million, or a few million, years ago.  This book does not get much into that realm of speculation, but some of the authors here (notably W. T. Fitch) have worked with linguists on these questions. We need more work on this.  Moreover, humans and songbirds share true music; apes don't seem to have it.  To understand how humans evolved musical competence, we have to look at avian models.  <br />     Two cautionary notes.  First, this is a book for professionals; it won't be easily accessible to the general reader.  Fortunately, one of the authors, Don Kroodsma, has filled the gap with his new book THE SINGING LIFE OF BIRDS.  The second is that the recording quality of the CD's is uneven; the nightingales sure don't sound as good as they do in the woods of south France!   <br />     One chapter treats conservation issues; I wish it were longer and more comprehensive.  Since Rachel Carson's classic book SILENT SPRING, Carson's worst fears have come to pass in much of the world.  Just in the last five years, spring has become almost totally silent (in regard to bird song) at my house.  Not only the pesticides she feared, but urbanization, global warming (fires, droughts...), and now West Nile virus are killing off the songbirds.  The cover of the present book portrays a meadowlark.  This formerly abundant bird has been reduced in numbers by about 99% in fast-urbanizing southern California since my youth, and is now a genuinely rare bird over almost all its range.  The younger authors of this book may live to see their subject matter go extinct.  My younger children have grown up in a song-deprived world; my grandchildren hear almost no bird songs at all, except on the wildlife programs they love to watch on TV. <br />     Thus, I would very, very, very strongly urge all students of bird song to get out there and document wild birds and their songs, while there is time.  Much of this book deals with experiments on domesticated birds.  Such work is very valuable, but we desperately need to get the wild songs documented while yet we can.	2005-04-29
US	52883098	R3OUCD8P711VPF	0743243609	110306480	The Goddess and the Bull: Catalhoyuk: An Archaeological Journey to the Dawn of Civilization	Books	4	19	27	N	Y	Fine archaeological writing	One of the high points of my life was standing on the great mound of Catalhoyuk, looking down into the excavations.  Catalhoyuk was the world's first real town, with the first lavish widespread art, and the first of many other things.  It is also a fascinating and mysterious site.  The many female figurines were thought by the site's first excavator, James Mellaart, to be representations of the Mother Goddess, a popular deity in historic times in Anatolia; bull figures and paintings seem to foreshadow the bull cults of the historic Mediterranean (reaching their final, degenerate form in the modern bullfight).  Mellaart was an incurable romantic, and his flights of speculation have been questioned.  So in the 1990s Ian Hodder, also a romantic and a lover of speculation, began to dig at Catalhoyuk, to see what really happened. <br />     This book tells the whole story, at a very accessible, popular level.  The author's target audience is shown by the fact that he feels it necessary to explain that Cambridge and Oxford are England's two leading universities.  This book would be ideal for a bright high school student or college undergrad interested in archaeology.  (In fact, I'll probably give it to my nephew, a freshman anthro major.)  I had expected a full report on all the seeds, bones, plaster fragments, and so on.  Instead, this book focuses on people--the ancient ones, but, much more, the modern ones.  It is an amazing insight into real archaeology and real archaeologists.  Some of those \\"general readers\\" probably thought of archaeologists as either Professor Dryasdust or coolly rational Indiana Jones types; they will be surprised to read of the intensity of loves, hates, and other emotions displayed herein.  In fact, archaeologists are passionate people. You have to be passionate to spend day after day working in blazing sun and choking dust, with no payoff other than the hope of finding out something about the human condition and the human spirit.  (I knowsome of the people who appear in this book.  They are accurately and sympathetically portrayed here.) <br />     One particularly good aspect of the book is the author's excellent presentation of the relevant archaeological theories, especially processual archaeology and Ian Hodder's \\"post-processual\\" challenge to it.  This is fairly hard material, but the author makes it beautifully clear without excessive simplification. Processualists concentrate on subsistence and ordinary life; post-processualists concentrate on, or at least look deeply into, how ancient people thought, felt, philosophized, and communicated.  Sometimes the processualists seem to think that one can get nothing but foodways from the record.  Sometimes post-processualists make ancient people sound all too similar to elite French philosophers of the late 20th century.  There is a theme in this book (not, alas, discussed quite enough) of Hodder's gradual tempering of his post-processualism to deal with the hard reality of food remains and garbage dumps.   <br />     This book is by a science reporter, not an archaeologist, which helps the writing style, but also leads to some problems. Theories of the rise of agriculture do not fare well.  Some important ones are missed--notably the late R. S. MacNeish's theory emphasizing trade, and Joy McCorriston's brilliant eclectic theorizing.  Those theories were not much considered by Hodder, so perhaps they need not figure here, but, still--I'd have liked to see them. Agriculture was invented in at least four areas besides the Near East, and good theories should try to explain all these inventions.  A rather far-fetched theory by one Cauvin is featured here (because Hodder played with it for a while), but even if it were not over the wall, it would apply only to the Near East, so as a general theory of agriculture it is inadequate.  Problematic, also, are countless small mistakes or not-quite-rights--each one trivial in itself, but they add up.  Some are minor (such as misspelling desiccation as \\"dessication\\"). More serious is the failure to show the difference between Turkish dotted and undotted i.  These are different letters (roughly, dotted i represents the \\"ee\\" sound, undotted i the \\"uh\\" sound).  Then there are theories that should be questioned more:  Marshall Sahlins' \\"original affluent society\\" idea, the whole idea of sedentization and coming-together as some huge new deal (actually it was very widespread in prehistoric times), and others.  <br />     That said, this is a fine book, and the intended readers will not lose much because of such minor flaws.     <br />     In the end, we need both processual and post-processual approaches.  We need to stay grounded in hard material things we can study, such as food remains.  But we need to think a little.  I still think those female figurines are goddesses (but, contra Mellaart, they do not imply a matriarchal, peaceful society, any more than goddesses did in early historic Anatolia).  The mysterious, powerful, intensely evocative art of Catalhoyuk remains one of the earliest really great triumphs of the human spirit.  As such, it should be known to everyone.  It is a vital part of the human heritage.  Thanks to Michael Balter (as to Mellaart before him) for making it accessible to a wide audience.	2005-02-18
US	52883098	R19BCDL307FUWG	0670033375	635086986	Collapse: How Societies Choose to Fail or Succeed	Books	5	5	10	N	Y	"A cautious optimist"	On page 521 of this book, Diamond describes himself as \\"a cautious optimist.\\"  The book is, in fact, quite upbeat, in spite of the dismal implications of the title.  The various negative reviewers who have gone before me have obviously not read the book.  It neither blames environmental destruction alone, nor resorts to the hysterical rhetoric of some environmentalists, nor does it trash industry.  In fact, there is a whole chapter, and several other long passages, on successful environmental initiatives by industries of all types.   <br />     He could have given the book a more accurate and less shocking title.  OK, \\"Collapse\\" sells copies, but the book is more about environmental problems, solutions and successes than outright collapses.  And it doesn't deal with the great collapses--the Roman Empire, for instance. <br />     Diamond considers several societies of the past that did themselves in by overusing their environments AND--critically important--by failing to get together and do something about it.  In some cases they just failed to control the situation, but in some the problem was that a society that was densely populated, and in delicate balance with its environment, was undone by dramatic climate change--most obviously when increasingly serious drought from 900 to 1300 did in the Anasazi and the central lowland Maya.  Warfare had a share in this, with increasing stress possibly increasing the warfare.   <br />     Equally interesting are the success stories that Diamond tells.  These more or less match the failures.  Easter Island failed, but the similar island of Tikopia (another tiny Polynesian island) did fine in managing resources.  The Maya failed, but Japan succeeded.  Greenland's Norse colony failed, Iceland's made it through.  Partly, this was a factor of environmental differences, but human succeess at getting everyone to work together was obviously the really important factor. <br />     Finally, Diamond discusses some modern cases where environmental overuse clearly contributed to civil meltdown. He is careful not to say it was \\"the cause,\\" however.  Bad government seems to be the cause of both the environmental mismanagement and the civil problems.  Once people are desperate, from poverty and want as well as from oppression and tyranny, they do desperate things. <br />     I have a good deal of expertise in this area, and I found virtually no mistakes in this book.  (One of note:  The Maya did not collapse so thoroughly as he thinks.  Many people and several marginal areas survived just fine.  But the collapse was real, and his take on it is sensible and informed.)  The book is also refreshingly free of biological reductionism; Diamond is fully aware that most of these are complex cases and that environmental mismanagement alone is rarely to blame. Some of his previous writings were full of naive biological reductionism and gratuitous trashing of indigenous people.  He has clearly listened to, and learned from, criticism.  He deploys, to advantage, many arguments that were deployed against some of his earlier work!  I really respect anyone who can learn from criticism rather than merely getting defensive.   <br />     My one serious criticism, and one that makes me much less optimistic than Diamond, is that Diamond does not deal with the degree to which hatred and conflict lead to environmental destruction.  It is very hard to get people to work together.  They'd rather fight.  Worst of all, and the most frequent cause of environmental mismanagement, is a situation where powerful special interests whip up strife deliberately, as a divide-and-conquer or divide-and-rule strategy.  This is terrifyingly visible in the United States, and elsewhere, today.  Judging from the world mess today, if humanity puts itself out of business through environmental suicide--which is indeed quite likely--the major cause will be politicians' exploitation of religious extremism.	2005-02-08
US	52883098	R24OLZ1561Z17Y	0801439655	388167992	Final Solutions: Mass Killing and Genocide in the Twentieth Century (Cornell Studies in Security Affairs)	Books	4	20	22	N	Y	A final solution for "final solutions"?	This book provides an excellent, important study of genocide and similar episodes of mass murder by government of its own people.  Valentino classifies mass murder campaigns into six types, of which the most important are Communist, ethnic, and anti-guerrilla (elimination not only of combatants but of all possible supporters thereof, during civil unrest). This somewhat underestimates the world's complexity; fascist regimes, notably, massacred not only Jews and other ethnic groups, but homosexuals, socialists, handicapped persons, mentally ill, dissidents of every sort, and even modernist artists.  Still, Valentino's typology, and especially his explanations of it, are useful.  Valentino also shows that leaders invoke mass murder when they feel threatened.  War, economic collapse, consolidation of the regime, or sheer paranoia can turn a ruling group's minds to mass murder.  Conversely, a good growing economy in time of peace seems to mollify even the sourest dictator; he cites China since Mao and the USSR after Stalin, when Mao's and Stalin's lieutenants--often their actual hatchet-men--ran much less bloody governments.<br /><br />  The most important argument in the book is that genocide and mass killing are usually invoked by one leader or a very small ruling group.  These \\"final solutions\\" are not often popular with the masses.  This may or may not be true, and will provoke controversy.  We have the cases of China and the USSR; but we also have the case of Germany, where anti-Semitic purges had occurred intermittently for centuries.  For that matter, Valentino mentions the United States' extermination of many of its Native American groups; this was largely a populist matter, usually without government support (Andrew Jackson's presidency being a notable exception). In the US, as in Brazil and some other countries, millions of people over a couple of centuries carried out genocidal policies. More research is needed!<br /><br />  The one real problem I have with Valentino's book is his solution to final solutions.  Since it is at least arguably true that mass murder is invoked by a very few leaders, his simple fix is to get rid of the leaders.  Sure--but all Germany rallied to Hitler's--or at least Germany's--defense in WWII, and the United States is now learning in Iraq that people often prefer the insane tyrant they know to the alien infidels who might, for all they know, be even worse.  The CIA probed China during Mao's day (I know; I was there) and wisely pulled out, for the same basic reason. A thought experiment about what might happen if the US goes into Iran is instructive.<br /><br />  I totally agree with Valentino that we should make every attempt to go in and stop genocide and mass killing, and I am nearly persuaded that he is right about the conceptual ease of it.  I only wish the world were as simple and logical as he thinks it is.  The world could easily have stopped the killing in Rwanda and Burundi, and in Guatemala, but chose not to bother (after all, those guys weren't white...Europe and America rallied to stop far less extensive killing in Serbia).  Dealing with Saddam has proved less easy.  Dealing with Mao would have been impossible, even though the vast majority of Chinese welcomed his passing.  And now we have ongoing genocide in Sudan, and no one knows what to do.<br /><br />  I second the earlier reviewer's assessment that this is a book everyone interested in the current world mess should read.lentino's book is his solution to final solutions.  Since it is at least arguably true that mass murder is invoked by a very few leaders, his simple fix is to get rid of the leaders.  Sure--but all Germany rallied to Hitler's--or at least Germany's--defense in WWII, and the United States is now learning in Iraq that people often prefer the insane tyrant they know to the alien infidels who might, for all they know, be even worse.  The CIA probed China during Mao's day (I know; I was there) and wisely pulled out, for the same basic reason. A thought experiment about what might happen if the US goes into Iran is instructive. <br />     I totally agree with Valentino that we should make every attempt to go in and stop genocide and mass killing, and I am nearly persuaded that he is right about the conceptual ease of it.  I only wish the world were as simple and logical as he thinks it is.  The world could easily have stopped the killing in Rwanda and Burundi, and in Guatemala, but chose not to bother (after all, those guys weren't white...Europe and America rallied to stop far less extensive killing in Serbia).  Dealing with Saddam has proved less easy.  Dealing with Mao would have been impossible, even though the vast majority of Chinese welcomed his passing.  And now we have ongoing genocide in Sudan, and no one knows what to do. <br />     I second the earlier reviewer's assessment that this is a book everyone interested in the current world mess should read.	2004-11-09
US	52883098	R3M85HIM89WQRN	0226461416	427237365	Isle of Fire: The Political Ecology of Landscape Burning in Madagascar (University of Chicago Geography Research Papers)	Books	3	10	10	N	Y	A solid study of fire	This book is an excellent, thorough study of the role of fire in Madagascar.  People in Madagascar light fires to clear forest and pasture.  This habit has been widely denounced in official and popular sources.  Many writers believe, mistakenly, that Madagascar was covered with lush forests until people got there and started burning.  Yet, Madagascar is mostly a dry tropical environment, with frequent lightning storms.  The existence of fire-adapted endemic plants and vegetation types confirms what common sense would lead us to expect:  fire has always been there.  On the other hand, much superb forest, especially in the eastern and central highlands of the country, has been converted to waste by burning in recent decades or centuries.   <br />     Christian Kull discusses this complex picture--good fire, bad fire, complex fire.  He shows that the inflated rhetoric about fire's awful effects stems from the needs of national and colonial regimes to maintain control as much as from the actual needs of fire management.  He provides a number of excellent case studies of local communities that use fire in a variety of ways--sometimes for good, sometimes for ill, in terms of overall welfare and environmental management.  He provides really excellent suggestions at the end on what should be done--I hope the NGO's and Madagascar government are reading this book. <br />     One problem that might deserve more attention is the case of introduced plants.  Madagascar was inflicted by the French colonial regime with eucalyptus, pine, and acacia--nonnative plants that burn explosively. (Native forests do not burn so explosively, so far as I have observed.) They have created an unnatural and terribly fire-prone environment in many areas.  They are currently managed (illegally!) by local burning during times that are wet enough to prevent runaway fires.   <br />     So, why not five stars?  First is that Kull gets carried away at times, and indulges in rhetoric that is a bit too \\"inflammatory\\" (the word is irresistable).  The government and NGO workers are really not just out to push people around; there is a real point here.  Burning is too little controlled and too badly managed.  The leaders are clearly motivated by a desire for control, but they have a real point, too.  Simplistic bash-the-leaders rhetoric sits poorly with Kull's otherwise thoughtful and nuanced study. Second, Kull might have checked more on other areas of the world--those in which indigenous burning is much better controlled and managed than it is in Madagascar (e.g. the Maya lowlands of Mexico), and those in which it is as badly managed, with devastating results (parts of south China).  Third, Kull does not say enough about the biodiversity problem, which is getting worse by the day.  Madagascar is home to an incredible endemic biota, which must be preserved for the benefit of humanity.  Unfortunately, the costs of preserving this biota are currently being paid by the desperately poor Malagasy people, while the benefits go to humanity as a whole--especially to well-off tourists and scientists.  Fire prevention to save endemic species is desperately needed, but somebody will have to figure out how to compensate local people more fairly.  Kull's advice on overall fire management is so good that he might well turn his efforts to this problem.  As I explained to some students in the Madagascar bush:  It's not about lemurs vs. people, it's about lemurs and people vs. no lemurs and no people.   <br />     Fire management is a part of the wider issue of environmental control, an issue far too important to be left to government agents or local people or anyone else.  We all have to work on it; all of us, lemurs included, are in this together.	2004-09-16
US	52883098	R2OAMU2TQR16P6	0759102244	563784370	Anthropology of the Performing Arts: Artistry, Virtuosity, and Interpretation in Cross-Cultural Perspective	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Virtuosity and Artistry	Anya Peterson Royce was a professional ballerina before becoming an anthropologist. This book is a personal record: thoughts on ballet expand out to experiences with other dance forms, ranging from Kabuki to the dances of the Tewa Pueblos of New Mexico. Then she moves on to classical music and to traditional small-scale cultures' healing rituals; in such cultures, healing is a performance art, since the main thing the curer can really accomplish is psychological support and help posed in dramatic forms.  <br /> Where this book stands out is in contrasting virtuosity--sheer technical skill--with true artistry. Royce has given a great deal of thought and attention to the question of what differentiates a great performance from a merely good one (or, worse, a merely slick one). A good dance performance can be perfect in timing, flow, steps, poses, and so on; a music performance can be perfect in timing, pitch, attack, dynamics and so on. A great one is never perfect--not in that way. A great artist adds countless tiny, almost imperceptible variations to bring out the emotional force of the piece. A musician will come in a tiny fraction of a second early on an attack note, and make up for it by coming in a tiny bit late on a later note (&quot;rubato and agogic&quot;). Similar tiny variations will appear in force of attack, tone quality, pitch levels changes, dynamic contours, and all other variables. These changes are not just random; they are all carefully calculated, or more often intuited, to drive the emotion and intensity of the piece. This is what differentiates a merely pleasant performance from a performance that sounds, superficially, the same, but leaves the audience collapsed in their chairs, drenched in sweat and tears. The great artist can then go on and build original creations on the understanding of emotions that emerges from such performance success. <br /> This use of micro-variations seems to be worldwide. The Chinese have about 100 different named ways of playing a single note on the qin (Chinese elite stringed instrument). Blues guitarists have a complex vocabulary for such variations. Effective use of them in the service of really intense emotion is what differentiates Robert Johnson from an ordinary bluesman. Royce plays cello and uses it as one example; I remember once hearing Mischa Schneider coach a friend of mine who is a concert cellist. My friend was playing about as well as I thought possible, but Schneider played the same piece with just a little sharper attack, more rubato-agogic, and so on, and the difference was astounding. Royce's description of working with the great cellist Janos Starker brings out all the things I heard, in much more detail and from much deeper knowledge. <br /> I am glad somebody has finally come out and said this in the anthropological literature. I have seen many pathetic and dismal attempts to define what makes art great (e.g. Robert Jourdain in his otherwise excellent book MUSIC, THE BRAIN, AND ECSTASY; see my Amazon.com review). Now, Royce has provided a good account of one vital key: the performance side of art. Now someone else has to tell us how humanity got from &quot;Twinkle, Twinkle, Little Star&quot; to Beethoven's symphonies.  <br /> Some things this book is not: It is not a sustained, brilliant tour-de-force; it is more a set of personal essays. It is not an introduction to anthropology of performance art; Royce assumes the reader already knows that literature. She also assumes great knowledge of elite European dance and music. The book is, alas, also not well edited. Comma faults, missed quote marks, repetition (often word for word), and other problems are distractingly common.  <br /> On the other hand, she gets a full extra star for not using, anywhere, such phrases as &quot;inscribed on the body&quot; or &quot;problematizing gender&quot; or &quot;the modernist program,&quot; even though she is treating in detail the actual phenomena in question. Such phrases once were valuable, because they referred to exciting new topics. They have long ago become vapid cliches, and should be dropped once and for all from the English language. Also, Royce is far too knowledgeable to think there is a thing, &quot;the body,&quot; that has some kind of separate reality that makes it (note that neuter gender) a special topic for study!	2004-07-26
US	52883098	R65S7HNA25UK0	1902937201	605485935	Examining the Farming/Language Dispersal Hypothesis (McDonald Institute Monographs)	Books	5	19	19	N	Y	PIE in the Sky	Off and on over the years, anthropologists have mooted a theory (not really a &quot;hypothesis&quot;) that farming spreads through rapid demographic and spatial expansion of the populations that invented agriculture.  The main counter-theory holds that farming spreads by copying: local people, previously non-farmers, picked up farming from neighbors, who had in turn picked it up from neighbors, and so on back to the origin point.  Ethnographic records abound for farming-as-demographic-expansion (Anglo-Americans in the western US and Canada, Australia, etc.) and, less often, farming-by-copying (some groups in India and Siberia, etc.).<br />  If farming spread by demic expansion, is that the reason for the vast spreads of some language families?  The claim has been made especially for Austronesian (AN) and Indo-European (IE), and is identified with this book's two editors, Austronesianist Bellwood and Europeanist Renfrew.  This book results from a conference where defenders and critics of the theory met and hashed it out.<br />  The case is certain for Austronesian in at least part of its range.  Austronesians introduced agriculture to Micronesia and Polynesia--in fact, they were the first people there.  They probably introduced ag to Taiwan, the Philippines, and other islands.  New Guinea already had its own, and Austronesian languages did not prevail there (instead, Trans-New-Guinea languages may have spread with local ag).  However, the dramatic Austronesian spread (from a South Chinese or just possibly Southeast Asian base) did not come with early agriculture, but with the development of complex, sophisticated, boat-savvy cultures, millennia after agriculture was invented in central China.  China's ag began about 8000 BC, and is believably associated with no fewer than six independent linguistic phyla, all of which spread in historic times.  One could make a case for any or all of them as having spread with initial ag, and indeed several different authors in thisbook argue for different phyla being first!  (Oddly enough, no one argues strongly for Thai-Kadai, by far the likeliest on geographic grounds.) Moreover, it turns out that the expansion of Austronesian languages and their agriculture did not go with a clear demic expansion.  Genetic researches reported in this volume show that the Austronesians mixed happily along the way, picking up and leaving genes at every port, as sailors do.<br />  The case for Indo-European is much worse.  Leaving aside the question of whether there really were &quot;Proto-Indo-European (PIE)&quot; speakers (many doubt this, and think the &quot;PIE&quot; words were borrowed back and forth among several languages), IE is clearly too young a phylum to date back to the origin of ag in the Near East (9500 BC at the latest). Moreover, the Mediterranean shows some of the best evidence for demic expansion with early ag--but the best-kept secret in this book is that the Mediterranean was not IE till late.  Spain was non-IE (NIE) till Celts and Romans invaded in historic times!  Italy had Etruscan, and Latin shows a mass of NIE loanwords from presumed other NIE languages.  Greeks invaded a NIE Greece fairly late, and their countless NIE loanwords for high-culture items show it (one recalls they first got writing only around 1400 BC, from NIE Minoans). Meanwhile, it seems that the Germanic languages are the result of NIE people picking up IE languages from the neighbors (and, some would say, making an awful mess of it...Just kidding).  (See Zvelebil, this volume.)  I am aware of pretty convincing evidence that Gaelic developed the same way--NIE people picking up Celtic.  All these shifts are too late for the demic-expansion hypothesis, and in any case the archaeology shows a long period of mixing and borrowing.  Moreover, the genetic clines in Europe from northwest to southeast clearly have something to do with the original settlement of Europe by modern humans ca. 40,000 years ago; with later historicflows, such as the Arab explosion into the Mediterranean in the 700s AD; and with natural selection, possibly via smallpox (introduced with cattle-keeping) and malaria (made commoner by field agriculture and irrigation). They certainly do not result solely from IE invasion.  And ag in the Near East may have been invented by Sumerians, speakers of &quot;Caucasus languages,&quot; Afroasiatics (as argued-very speculatively-by Militarev in this volume), or now-long-extinct peoples.<br />  In the New World, Mexican agriculture seems to have fueled the spread of at least four linguistic phyla, and the two most obviously involved with early ag (Oto-Manguean and Mixe-Zoque) did not spread far.  No vast demic expansion here.  The other two, Uto-Aztekan and Mayan, did spread far as language groups, but probably got their agriculture later, and did not spread as demic units.  By contrast, the really huge linguistic expansions in North America--Inuit, Algonkian, Athapaskan, Penutian, etc.--took place in totally non-agricultural contexts.  Lyle Campbell's article pointing this out is probably the most significant article in the book, at least for born skeptics.<br />  This volume shows that agriculture and language sometimes spread together and sometimes don't.  When they spread together, there is genetic mixing with locals along the way, not a sudden dramatic replacement of one group by another.  The modern New World/Australia situation was exceptional; disease and gunfire conveniently wiped out almost all the locals, allowing demographic expansion of European settlers to go unchecked.  Such things did not normally happen in the ancient world.<br />  In short, we can abandon the idea of a single wave of farmers marching shoulder-to-shoulder out of the Near East, singing &quot;Stout Hearted Men&quot; in PIE.  IE language spread seems to have had something to do with agricultural introduction and demic spread, but the picture is complex and confusing, and needs more research.  The same applies, mutatis mutandis, for other spreads hypothesized here, which range from very well supported (Austronesian by far the best) to wildly speculative (the ag-spread component of the papers on Tibeto-Burman and Austroasiatic).  So defenders and critics converge at the end on an intermediate picture.<br />  What is wonderful about this book is the unbelievable amount of data brought together to test and evaluate a really interesting theory.  This is science at its best.  No resolution yet, but, much better, a stimulus and guide to further research.	2004-06-15
US	52883098	R3K7RYMO2A3F3U	1559633670	795126661	World Agriculture and the Environment: A Commodity-by-Commodity Guide to Impacts and Practices	Books	5	23	24	N	Y	Superb reference	This is a superb and unique reference.  It provides an incredible amount of detail on crops that enter world trade, and their impact on the environment.<BR>     The very best thing about this book is that it is not strident and does not blatantly advocate a particular political agenda.  It is written in a scientific, objective tone that makes it far more convincing than the rhetorical works.  Only when he comes to tobacco (a crop that ruins the environment AND then ruins the consumers) does he use a few value-laden words!<BR>     The reader is struck by what a mess the world is in, and how easily we could fix a lot of that.  The book provides enormous detail on soil erosion, chemical use, biodiversity reduction, and the rest of our woes, but it presents equal detail on how to prevent those problems.  Only a few crops (notably cotton, salmon, chocolate) would be hard to manage well.  <BR>     Two social themes stand out:  first, the very rapid concentration of commodity trade in the hands of a very few firms; second, the degree to which governments subsidize production-at-any-cost as opposed to production-with-environmental-protection.  (Subsidizing includes nonlegal subsidies, such as letting the rich get away with breaking environmental laws and dumping huge costs on poorer neighbors.)  One cannot escape the conclusion that changing this subsidy structure would fix most of the damage, worldwide.<BR>Environmentalists should think more about subsidies!<BR>     Meanwhile, what can a concerned reader do?  The book tells how to seek out shade-grown coffee, responsibly raised beef and paper, and so on.  It is much harder, at least in the US, to find decently-produced soybeans or corn or wheat, but you can do it.  Cotton is a special problem, and the alternatives to it are mostly worse.  The hemp advocates will be vocal!<BR>     We are in such a mess, and it would be so easy to do so much....  This is not a time to lose hope or give up.  By providing the big picture, thisbook should make every concerned citizen stop and think. The few errors I could spot in the book are trivial ones. <BR>     This is an absolute must-read and must-have for anyone who works on problems of production and environment or on problems of world food supply and health.	2004-05-17
US	52883098	R3FJZL60BP5REJ	0465077501	883464783	The Evolution Of Desire: Strategies Of Human Mating	Books	3	14	21	N	Y	Mating happens....	The other reviewers have pretty much said it--this is a good book with some problems, and the rest--so I will confine myself to some things they don't mention.<BR>     First, Buss continues his long campaign of featuring women's desire for wealth and men's desire for beauty, in spite of the fact that his own data show wealth is far behind love, reliability, caring, intelligence, and other goods in women's esteem, and (to a lesser extent) the same for men and beauty.  Moreover, wealth and beauty matter much more for dates and one-night stands than for real relationships, where love, commitment, sympathy, and compatibility are most of the picture.  Buss' exaggeration of the role of wealth and beauty has led to some real errors in the popular press.<BR>     Among mysteries yet unexplained, he lists homosexuality--certainly hard to explain by Darwinian factors.  He does not mention the theory that it may stem from a hormonal glitch in fetal development.  He also does not deal with the fact that in some societies--ancient Greece and parts of the Middle East and New Guinea--homoerotic behavior is essentially universal among men, at least at some time in life.  <BR>     Another mystery is rape.  Buss does not emphasize enough that rape is a crime of violence, almost always intended to hurt and harm and/or to assert dominance.  It is not primarily sexual or about sex or reproduction.  Hence its universality in war (including gang rumbles) and its rarity elsewhere; otherwise, thugs and very disturbed people are the usual perpetrators.  There are always frat rats counting coup, but they aren't much of the story.  Evolutionary psychologists make much of the fact that women of reproductive age are the usual victims, but forget that those are the women who are out and about, and the ones whose rape is most humiliating to their menfolk and their people (remember Bosnia).  The surprising thing is that so many little girls and elder women get raped.	2004-05-13
US	52883098	R3O2ZUDU9758AG	0262083264	96921270	Genetic and Cultural Evolution of Cooperation (Dahlem Workshop Reports)	Books	5	23	25	N	Y	If you want to cooperate....	Evolutionary theory has stressed competition, but cooperation is incredibly common in nature.  Mitochondria, originally bacterial infections of cells, are now essential components of cells.  Most plants depend on fungal associates to help them get water and nutrients.  Social animals abound at all levels of complexity.  Most complexly social of all are humans.  Until recently, this widespread mutualism, mutual aid, and general sociability was understudied and undertheorized.  This book is a major step toward creating theories of how such systems can have arisen in a competitive world.  I am not competent to judge the papers on mitochondria and other cell-level wonders, but the other papers are authoritative and original.  The studies of human society and cooperation are absolutely brilliant, and put together new and powerful theories of the evolution of human cooperation.  The political implications of these theories are alluded to, but not discussed in depth.  Basically, humans are designed to be grassroots cooperators.  We have a range of mechanisms to regulate society, detect and sanction cheaters, discuss how to maintain the system, and so on and on, and most of these abilities have roots well back in our primate heritage.  The idea that people are selfish, including Thomas Hobbes' fantasy of &quot;savages&quot; living in a &quot;warre of each against all&quot; until a king shaped things up, does not stand investigation.  Impressive in this book is new evidence from behavioral economics showing just how cooperative people are, and new models that can deal with that in terms of evolutionary and economic theory.  Somebody should get a Nobel in economics somewhere along the line!<BR>I fear only that ordinary readers and the popular media will not find this book; it is formidably difficult reading--you have to know biology, anthropology, theoretical economics, and even cell physiology to get through all of it.  Help!  I hope somebody is writing a popular knockoff, to counter the idiotic garbage put out by those who have confused political ideology with evolutionary theory and given us floods of nonsense about the &quot;selfish gene,&quot; the impossibility of social cooperation, the naturalness of selfishness, and even the biological inevitability of rape and spouse abuse!  <BR>In any case, this book puts the study of cooperation on a sounder scientific footing.  We need social applications, before it is too late.	2004-04-23
US	52883098	R15AQL5IXMCSNO	0195151194	693005960	Lost Paradises and the Ethics of Research and Publication	Books	4	3	3	N	Y	Thoughtful essays on anthropological ethics	In 2000, reporter Patrick Tierney published a supposed expose' of anthropological shenanigans in Venezuela, attacking primarily James Neel (geneticist) and Napoleon Chagnon (ethnographer). Subsequent investigations revealed that the attacks on Neel were simply wrong, and the more substantive ones on Chagnon were too, leaving a residue of broader charges that Chagnon had sensationalized the Yanomamo people and made them seem more violent and harsh than they really are--a serious matter, since it allowed certain government and private parties to excuse genocidal attacks on the Yanomamo.  Tierney's book would probably have passed unnoticed if it had not been rather prematurely hyped by certain excellent and well-known anthropologists (who have, I think, lived to regret this).  As it was, the whole episode produced a storm of controversy.  Tierney's book also led to a halt on vaccinating indigenous populations in some areas, since the most sensationalist (and clearly wrong) charge leveled at Neel was that he had inoculated Yanomamo with inferior vaccine, so as to study their reactions.  <BR>     The present book, edited by prominent anthropologists from Brazil and Venezuela, puts the whole controversy in some perspective.  The book quickly dispenses with the wilder Tierney charges, but then settles into a serious and thoughtful series of enquiries about the real issues raised:  bringing health care to indigenous peoples, and publishing dubious accounts of them.  The need for health care is established by a large amount of sobering statistics.  Indigenous peoples in South America (and elsewhere) have terrible health problems, and live far less long than settler populations in their countries.  They desperately need inoculations and every other sort of health care. The question of publication is less clear-cut.  Sensationalist accounts, whether by reporters or anthropologists, clearly do no good.  But how much advocacy are anthropologists expected to have?  How is the cause of bringing health care, or any other good cause, best advanced in popular or technical writing?  Balancing advocacy with factual description is never easy and must always be considered.  The conclusions provide some of the most insightful and thoughtful ideas on ethics to come from the anthropological literature. <BR>     The book is marred by the inclusion of a highly polemical article by Paul Gross.  Dr. Gross is a highly intelligent and well-meaning man, but lets his rhetoric get away from him, thus sorely damaging the otherwise thoughtful and balanced tone of this book.  I fear the pro-Tierney forces may seize on this essay to discredit the whole book.<BR>     Unfortunately, nasty attack literature is now getting rather common in anthropology.  Several leading anthropologists and biologists who have dedicated their lives to successfully helping local societies and indigenous peoples have been subjected to Tierney-style attacks recently.  Often, the attackers are not reporters, but actual anthropologists, sometimes people who felt somehow slighted or aggrieved by the anthropologist(s) in question.  Even university presses have published such books.  <BR>     No one is above criticism, but everyone, even in politics (let alone science), should be above dishonest, unfair, and viciously polemic criticism.  It is extremely disturbing to see the morality and tactics of Rush Limbaugh and Bill O'Reilly spilling over into anthropology.  <BR>     Salzano and Hurtado's book provides a very important step in the right direction.  Real issues are raised by even the wildest critics, and these issues should be thoughtful and soberly considered.  Answering them in their own style merely makes the whole mess worse.  One hopes that publishers, webmasters, and listserve managers will resist the temptation to maximize sales and attention by publishing irresponsible personal attacks.	2004-03-29
US	52883098	R3F33L0D5V7E61	0813340861	753887506	Race: The Reality of Human Differences	Books	2	56	132	N	N	Doubtful races	This book has the advantage that it is by a serious human geneticist and anthropologist(Sarich--Miele seems to be purely a journalist, helping Sarich write the prose and adding some minor points).  Sarich knows about human evolution and explains it well, though professionals will have various quibbles.  Previous racist books have been rendered worthless by ignorance of the simplest human genetic truths.  Sarich is aware that &quot;race&quot; is only 15% of the variance between any two distant-origin individuals, and, more important, that one can recognize any number of &quot;races&quot; by making finer and finer distinctions--there could be thousands of &quot;races&quot; in Europe alone.  (Anthropologists abandoned &quot;race&quot; not because they don't believe in human differences, but because the number of different populations they could recognize got unmanageably large--we work with thousands now.) Sarich reasonably critiques the claims that &quot;race does not exist,&quot; but seems not to realize that this claim, when seriously made, refers to the ridiculous &quot;races&quot; of American folk speech--Mexican, Latino, Asian-Pacific, Irish, Arab, and other non-biological categories.  (Even &quot;African-American&quot; refers not to a biological population, but to a gradient from basically African to almost pure white--remember, &quot;one drop of African blood&quot; makes you African-American in the US.)<br />  The book points out that human races differ enough biochemically to necessitate some differences in medical treatment.  True enough (though the differences are very minor and merely statistical).  But Sarich and Miele don't emphasize enough the point that this is true only of actual biological populations (Europeans vs Sub-Saharan Africans, for instance), not of folk or social races.  American doctors treating African-Americans who are 98% White as if they were &quot;Africans&quot; are doing no one a favor.<br />  The serious problem with this book concerns IQ differences. Here, Sarich does not control the relevant psychological and behavioral-genetic literature so well.  Intelligence is now known to be affected by countless genes and environmental factors, and they do not work together in some neat, harmonious system.  If local populations differ in innate intellectual gifts, this could well involve a bunch of verbally superior people next to some not-so-verbal math geniuses, or a bunch of spatial-perception hotshots next to some who are weak in that area. Sarich buys the claims of a &quot;g factor&quot; that underlies intelligence; this &quot;g&quot; shakes out of factor analyses of IQ test performance, but remains impossible to ground in genetics or brain physiology, both of which indicate a much more complex reality. It is not demonstrated in psychological performance other than standard IQ tests, either; again the evidence is for more complexity. For instance, a unique gene found among certain Amish makes them more prone to bipolar disorder, which would surely screw up their performance on at least some tests. In any case, IQ testing has avoided like poison any attempts to control for malnutrition, illness, lead poisoning, lack of knowledge of tester's language (monolingual Spanish speakers are still tested in English in my area), etc.<br />  The worst thing in the book is that Sarich accepts the guesstimate of 70 as the IQ of Sub-Saharan Africans, which is ridiculous in view of the high levels of education and performance seen in those African cities and regions that have anything like a functioning educational system (to say nothing of adequate nutrition). An adult with a 70 IQ can barely walk or talk; African nations now produce physicists and biologists and poets.  To their credit, Sarich and Miele present a lot of evidence that Africans are perfectly sharp people, but don't really know what to do with it and wind up unconvincingly trying to explain it away.  (And, just to prove that African-American IQ testing problems aren't genetic, those 98% White &quot;African-Americans&quot; test the same as the 100% African ones.)<br />  The other really silly thing in the book is comparing human races with breeds of dogs.  Dog breeds have been artificially selected for differences in behavior and ability.  Human groups have not.  They are more comparable to wild subspecies of animals.  If there are any demonstrated differences in intelligence and behavior between naturally evolved subspecies of any species of animal, I don't know about it.<br />  I think this book will be valuable in that it will teach racists something about actual human evolution and variability.  Above all, it will teach them that real races are, as Sarich says, &quot;fuzzy sets&quot;--loosely defined regional populations--not ironclad and utterly different creatures, and not the ridiculous &quot;races&quot; of American folk speech.  It will teach them something about actual human evolution and genetics.  However, psychologists and psychological anthropologists will cut it to pieces when it trespasses on their turf. (See e.g. U. Neisser, ed., THE RISING CURVE; Jencks and Phillips, ed., THE BLACK-WHITE TEST SCORE GAP.)ting problems aren't genetic, those 98% White &quot;African-Americans&quot; test the same as the 100% African ones.)<br />  The other really silly thing in the book is comparing human races with breeds of dogs.  Dog breeds have been artificially selected for differences in behavior and ability.  Human groups have not.  They are more comparable to wild subspecies of animals.  If there are any demonstrated differences in intelligence and behavior between naturally evolved subspecies of any species of animal, I don't know about it.<br />  I think this book will be valuable in that it will teach racists something about actual human evolution and variability.  Above all, it will teach them that real races are, as Sarich says, &quot;fuzzy sets&quot;--loosely defined regional populations--not ironclad and utterly different creatures, and not the ridiculous &quot;races&quot; of American folk speech.  It will teach them something about actual human evolution and genetics.  However, psychologists and psychological anthropologists will cut it to pieces when it trespasses on their turf. (See e.g. U. Neisser, ed., THE RISING CURVE; Jencks and Phillips, ed., THE BLACK-WHITE TEST SCORE GAP.)	2004-02-26
US	52883098	R2Z35A9ZSGPTIG	0826328644	995581718	Maya Medicine: Traditional Healing in Yucatn	Books	4	19	19	N	N	Great Maya Herb Lore	This little jewel of a book reports a fine research project on Yucatec Maya medicine in Piste, Yucatan state, Mexico. It's a short work, marked by excellent and concise data presentation.  Dr. Kunow gives fascinating profiles of her curer friends, a brief but neatly done guide to Maya medical wisdom, and a thorough survey of the herbal medicine she found.  The only thing wrong here--enough to cost one star (I'd love to give five)--is a lack of real contribution to medical theory and practice.  The book will enhance our knowledge of how traditional medicine works (not least because it's one of the best ethnographies thereof ever published) and will contribute a lot to world medicine if anyone takes the herbal lore seriously, but the author doesn't do this for us; someone else will have to. This is nothing against Dr. Kunow--one can't do everything in every book. <BR>     I have been doing similar work in Quintana Roo for some years now, and find fascinating differences and similarities.  The general medical belief system is the same.  Most of the major herbs are called by the same name and used in the same way.  But the less important herbs often have slightly different names and quite different uses.  Research by Anita Ankli, Gilberto Balam, and others has turned up such minor local differences all over the Yucatan Peninsula, and even in neighboring villages.  Since many of the cures clearly work, often better than drugstore remedies, one wonders why there is so much difference.  Lack of communication between local healers seems to be the reason.  <BR>     I am always impressed by the extent of Maya knowledge. Kunow records that they know that horses lose their tails when they eat leucaena foliage.  I was intrigued when I first heard this one, and checked it out.  It's true.  Leucaena contains a chemical, mimosine, which has that effect.  Cattle can deal with it better, and don't lose their hair.  This is typical of the incredibly detailed knowledge that the Yucatechave of their environment.  I won't go into the medicine, but suffice it to say that it is superb, and will some day--I hope--produce cures for the world.	2003-11-12
US	52883098	R3RSW5FNI1H8B6	0312310897	892704371	Constant Battles: The Myth of the Peaceful, Noble Savage	Books	3	86	103	N	N	Mixed Bag	First the good news:  LeBlanc's main message is right.  People in almost all societies have fought, and very often it's all about resources.  Traditional societies of all sorts, from hunter-gatherers to early states, often overused their environments badly, and then either tried to cope by taking resources from the neighbors, or weakened themselves to the point where the neighbors could scarf up on them.  LeBlanc urges us contemporary humans to take heed, and clean up our ecological act so that we can reduce (hopefully eliminate) the danger of war. <BR>So far, so good.  Thus, on balance, this is a good book and a very valuable one.  LeBlanc notes that whatever innate aggressions humans have, their actual wars are typically over land and resources, and thus are preventable.  We all need to hear this, in an age when politicians and writers love to naturalize war and aggression as inevitable.  (Yes, I know, war isn't just about resources, but it usually involves much concern about them.)<br />The problems come with LeBlanc's exaggeration and sometimes shaky scholarship (on which see exchange of letters in ARCHAEOLOGY for Sept.-Oct 2003).  First, while the myth of the ecologically harmonious \\"savage\\" was once common and is still with us, the myth of the peaceful savage seems quite rare.  LeBlanc cites only one source for it, and he's wrong about that one.  He cites Rousseau (hardly an anthropologist).  In fact Rousseau never used the term \\"noble savage\\" (it's from Dryden), and R's \\"savage\\" was the chimpanzee, of whose sometimes-violent behavior R was well aware.  (He tells some stories of their attacks on Africans.)  Anthropologists know traditional people are often warlike. H. H. Turney-High's foundational review PRIMITIVE WAR (oddly, not cited by LeBlanc) established a baseline on that, many decades ago.  Lloyd Warner (whom LeBlanc does cite) noted that Australian Aboriginals waged war about as often as Europeans, with casualty rates (and rhetoric!) comparable to WWI.Raymond Kelly and Brian Ferguson claim no \\"warfare\\" for simpler societies (in recent books) but it's a definitional difference; they define warfare as formal, huge-scale, organized conflict, and don't count the small but bloody feuds and battles almost universal among traditional peoples.  I really don't know of anyone who thinks simpler societies were peaceful, but my panel of popular-culture experts (a.k.a. my family) assure me that the New Age and Goddess-worshiping set does indeed so believe.  (I assume that Diana Muir's comments on anthropologists, in another Amazon review, refer to textbook accounts of ecological harmony; they certainly don't apply to the anthro literature on war.) <BR>On ecology, while LeBlanc is right that lots of people mess their environments up, he exaggerates it, and uses a ridiculously strict definition of \\"conservation\\" that makes it virtually synonymous with \\"preservation.\\"  This would rule out modern soil conservation, water conservation, duck conservation, game animal conservation, etc.  Traditional people everywhere figure out how to manage their environments well enough to let them survive; they sometimes overuse resources, and even ruin whole ecosystems, but usually they do well enough--though not well enough to prevent occasional war.<BR>All this would be trivial if it weren't for the very strong possibility that LeBlanc's book will be misunderstood, by superficial readers, as a claim that \\"savages\\" are the treacherous, destructive bloodthirsty, violent, cruel, endlessly-warring beasts that they were said to be in all the earlier literature--from Thomas Hobbes to Hollywood cowboys-and-Indians movies. (Hollywood's recent glorification of the Indian is small recompense for nearly 100 years of portraying Indians as mindless butchers of cowboys and settlers.)  In my experience, for every person who believes in the peaceful, harmonious savage, there are hundreds who believe in the Hobbesian one.  These people usually follow Hobbesin assuming that we civilized folk have nothing to learn from \\"savages\\" except that we need a powerful king or dictator to keep us in line.  If I read LeBlanc aright, this is NOT what he is saying, and readers should be warned not to make too much of his lurid title and occasionally (though not usually) exaggerated claims.	2003-08-27
US	52883098	R3074K1WDRB58I	0393051242	861144841	Globalization and Its Discontents	Books	4	9	9	N	Y	Mixed Bag	It takes some temerity to add yet another to 35 existing reviews of this book!  But I do have a rather different reading of it.  Previous reviewers seem to have thought that it was either the cat's meow or just a venomous attack.  I am somewhere in between. The book makes a number of excellent, telling points against IMF and World Bank policies and assumptions.  It does this in the context of what is, indeed, a full-scale attack--no punches pulled.  Stiglitz' alternatives are not always the most viable or well-considered, either.  So, three or four stars for good critique, but nothing for balance or for coherent solutions.<br />  What worries me more is Stiglitz' lack of attention to a couple of notorious facts about the WB and IMF.  He mentions them and then goes on to other things.  First, these agencies have routinely supported the most unspeakably brutal and murderous dictatorships:  Marcos in the Philippines, Mobutu in Zaire (now Congo), Rios Montt in Guatemala, the thugs of Sudan, the military junta in Indonesia, and on and on.  They continued to do this for years after it became general knowledge that these regimes were using the loans, and other aid, to line their pockets and to buy weapons to suppress their own people--and then they ran down their countries' health and education systems to pay back the loans.  This wasn't economic theory at work and it wasn't ignorance.  We still need a serious study of this.  The notorious lack of accountability, stressed by Stiglitz, has to be remedied.<br />  Second, the World Bank in particular, and now the WTO also, have routinely gone up against the environment--though they know perfectly well that everyone, and especially the poor in the Third World, depends on the environment for survival.  A highly-placed World Bank researcher (necessarily unnamed here!) told me some time ago that the World Bank's own studies show that all their big-dam projects cost more than they produce in benefits.  The costs are born by the poor (especially those displaced by the reservoirs).  The benefits largely go to the rich.  The WTO's policies on &quot;free&quot; trade are notorious; they tolerate without protest the enormous subsidies that First World governments give their farmers (as pointed out by Stiglitz) but they won't bend a millimetre to protect forests, fish, and wildlife that are vital to the survival of Third World poor.  We need a much better study and account of all this.<br />  Whatever is going on in the non-transparent boardrooms of these agencies, the effect has been to keep the Third World in its classic position: an impoverished supplier of raw materials to the First World.  The worst thing about the WB-IMF-WTO policy mix is that it routinely leads to the sacrifice not only of the environment but also of long-term investments like education.  Without an educated workforce, the Third World is doomed to permanent poverty and backwardness.  Everybody knows this, but the policies go on.<br />  I wish Stiglitz, or someone, would take all this on.	2003-06-27
US	52883098	RWC462JT5Y57L	0674010566	864695009	Stagolee Shot Billy	Books	5	13	13	N	N	Baad Dude Wins Again	Anyone with even a slight acquaintance with the blues knows that Stagolee killed Billy Lyons over a brand-new Stetson hat.  Stagolee thus became the prototypic baaad dude, the player who would coolly kill a man over fancy headgear.  Until now, however, no one knew the real story, and most of us blues fans wondered if either of the gentlemen existed.  In truth, \\"Stack\\" Lee Shelton shot Billy Lyons in a barroom in the red-light district of St. Louis on Christmas Day, 1895.  The ballad, now known in hundreds of versions, must have emerged soon afterward. <BR>     Cecil Brown has researched the full story--he even provides pictures of the death certificates.  He situates the event in its full and rowdy context: the roaring, wide-open world of Mississippi River towns in the late 19th century, when liquor, prostitution, gambling, and violence were the order of the day. He goes on to trace the song through its long and chequered history; central to the blues, it has been enthusiastically adopted by hillbilly and folk singers, rockers, and many more.  <BR>     Good studies of folklore have been rare lately.  The glorious days of the 1960s folk revival are long over.  It is thus doubly rewarding to see a really fine study of folk tradition.  This book focuses on the literature side; it does not deal with the music (someone should write a companion volume).  Brown does an excellent job of interpretation, bringing in just enough theory, not too much.  His generalizations are useful and interesting.  (I don't agree with \\"Publisher's Weekly\\"'s sour comments at the end of their note.)  The world needs more books like this.  I not only got stuck in it and read it in one sitting--I then sought out my worn old record of Long Cleve Reed and Papa Harvey Hull's superb performance from the 1920's, and played it three times over.<BR>Right on, Cecil Brown.	2003-06-20
US	52883098	R1W63TGW31NL2Y	0292712472	453987199	Crafting Tradition: The Making and Marketing of Oaxacan Wood Carvings (Joe R. and Teresa Lozano Long Series in Latin American and   Latino Art and Culture)	Books	4	14	14	N	N	Art Socioeconomics	Anyone interested in Mexican folk art will have noticed the brightly-painted animals, people, and alebrijes (fantastic imaginary critters) featured in many Mexican-oriented gift shops.  Michael Chibnik's book is an excellent introduction to the socioeconomics of the craft.  These figures are produced in only four villages, all in central Oaxaca.  The people who make them have varying degrees of Zapotec heritage, but are mostly Spanish-speaking.  They are now used to dealing with international buyers; this is a global age, and the sight of a rich, sophisticated buyer in an adobe-and-pole home in a remote Oaxaca village occasions no surprise.  Chibnik follows items on their odyssey from such homes to the elite art stores of Oaxaca and the United States.<BR>     Chibnik stresses the newness of the craft.  True, but Oaxaca has a very old tradition of superb and imaginative woodcarving, previously applied to shrines, masks, and local utility goods.  It not only produced the skills, it provided an existing market structure.  This Chibnik fails to address. <BR>     Some points in the book deserve expansion.  First, aid and development workers interested in small enterprise development should very definitely read it.  It chronicles, very thoroughly, a spectacularly successful bit of local initiative and creativity.  The villagers not only invented this craft; they have kept improving it steadily.  Woodworking expands, diversifies, and gets more creative; meanwhile, the people themselves get rapidly more sophisticated in business. Chibnik provides very detailed accounts of the economics of the craft, from the price of wood (fortunately, a common sort of tree is used) to the markups in Tucson and Los Angeles art galleries. <BR>     This sort of value-added bootstrapping is rare in Mexico (and elsewhere).  It should be encouraged.  Thousands of well-meant development initiatives, pushed by outsiders, have failed; here we have an excellent study of one that was strictly local initiative and that succeeded. Chibnik does not explicitly target small enterprise development experts, but they are the people who really should be reading this book with great care.<BR>     Second, this is good art.  Chibnik quotes, without much comment, some sadly snobbish statements to the effect that this stuff is &quot;commercial&quot; and thus automatically low.  As if Rembrandt, Michelangelo and Monet weren't commercial artists!  Come on, scholars--good art is usually made with at least one eye toward an audience willing to pay for it. Chibnik is generally silent on the quality of pieces and why it matters, though he does make some judgements.  Yet, discussion of quality--why people really like some pieces and find others dull--should be a natural part of an economic study. Anthropologists and economists tend to be skeptical (or downright cynical) about quality judgements, but such judgements are a fact of life, and do structure the market.  They should be directly addressed.<br />     As noted by an earlier reviewer, this book is rather underillustrated.  Given that there is only one other book about the craft (and it rather short), one would hope that, some day, a full art-critical study of the carvings will be produced.<BR>     The same earlier reviewer found the style dry.  I disagree.  Maybe I'm just used to academia, but I find this a very well-written and readable book.  It is mercifully free from the jargon usual in economic studies and art criticism.  I found it engaging and hard to put down.  Highly recommended to anyone with a serious interest in the socioeconomic side of folk art.	2003-05-19
US	52883098	R94PT6OQXNMHN	0822329492	736365082	Painting Culture: The Making of an Aboriginal High Art (Objects/Histories)	Books	5	17	23	N	Y	Great Art Gets Some Deserved Attention	In the 1970s, an Anglo-Australian advisor to the Pintupi Aboriginal people of the remote Western Desert of Australia suggested that they transfer some of their traditional designs to modern European painting media (notably acrylic).  The result was astonishing: a seemingly endless stream of brilliant, intense, moving paintings emerging from one of the most remote and impoverished places on earth.  By incredible good fortune, Fred Myers, one of the most sensitive and wide-ranging ethnographers in anthropology, was there almost from the birth of the movement, recording what happened.  This is his authoritative book on the meteoric rise of an art style that has achieved world reknown.<br />  The art is enmeshed in Aboriginal religion, which in turn is enmeshed in the land.  Most of the paintings are of religious landscapes. Myers is at his best in explaining the differences between Aboriginal views of the paintings (basically, as religious art connected with land and land rights) and westerners' views (basically, as beautiful pictures). Myers does not make the comparison, but it is rather like looking at Italian Renaissance religious scenes.  You can't fully appreciate what's going on (however much you may enjoy the color scheme) if you have no idea who Jesus, Mary, and Mary Magdalene were.<br />  Other books have focused on the art and its makers (not only Pintupi; other groups had their own artistic triumphs, and now I am told that most of the artists in Australia belong to the tiny percentage who are of Aboriginal background).  Myers thus concerns himself more with the reception that the paintings had in the wider world, and the whole process of winning recognition as \\"art\\" for what was once dismissed as mere \\"aboriginal craft\\" items--a racist dismissal.  Myers is incredibly fair-minded (more than I would have been) to all parties, in the face of this, but sometimes anger inevitably breaks through; for example, after reporting one particularly dismissive review, he says \\"Here, then, were outsiders who knew more than the participants but did not bother to talk with them, outsiders whose representational practices directly thwarted the representations of Aboriginal painters\\" (p. 292).<br />  Racism took several tactics.  First and most odious was attacking the marketing of the paintings as \\"commodification\\" or \\"commoditization\\"--translation: it's fine for elite white artists to sell their stuff, but Immoral and Sinful for poor and nonwhite folks to make an honest dollar the same way.  Related were attacks on the lack of \\"authenticity\\" of the art because old-time Aboriginals didn't have acrylic; again, no one attacks elite white artists for using media that Leonardo da Vinci didn't use.  Then there was the early consignment of the art to \\"natural history\\" museums! (This had changed by the early 1990s.) Another tactic was glib talk of Aboriginals as \\"the Other,\\" to be \\"situated in a discourse of alterity\\" or of \\"cultural construction\\" instead of treated as humans.  (Not only do some perform the \\"othering,\\" but also those who criticize it, can bury the whole matter in floods of jargon--not much help, in the event.)  The last word on the subject of \\"the Other\\" was said long ago by Rimbaud: \\"je est en autre\\" (\\"I is another\\"); after that, we need no more on the issue.  Add in patronizing bureaucrats, crooked dealers, and well-meaning but uncomprehending viewers, and the mix is such that one wonders how the Aboriginals keep going.<br />  There is much more in the book (over 400 dense pages).  Many less dramatic points are of more interest to the theorist.  They defy summary here.  Defying summary, too, is Myers' wonderful account of his own experiences in the Western Desert and in the urban art world.<br />The only problem with the book is that much of it is (necessarily, I fear) couched in the lingo of the art-criticism and culture-studies world--a lingo noted more for preciosite' than for comprehensibility.<br />  Myers demolishes the simplistic rhetoric of \\"resistance\\" and \\"accommodation.\\"  What emerges is something far more powerful.  Humans sometimes confront the most horrible oppression, racism, and brutality by transcending it--by marshalling all their resources in a cascade of concentrated brilliance that \\"outshines the sun.\\"  Delta blues is one example (and the source of my phrase). Roma music is another. In art, we have the explosion of Northwest Coast carving, painting and printmaking over the last 30 years.  These and many other similar cases may be the best plea we have for redeeming the human species in spite of our countless sins.demolishes the simplistic rhetoric of \\"resistance\\" and \\"accommodation.\\"  What emerges is something far more powerful.  Humans sometimes confront the most horrible oppression, racism, and brutality by transcending it--by marshalling all their resources in a cascade of concentrated brilliance that \\"outshines the sun.\\"  Delta blues is one example (and the source of my phrase). Roma music is another. In art, we have the explosion of Northwest Coast carving, painting and printmaking over the last 30 years.  These and many other similar cases may be the best plea we have for redeeming the human species in spite of our countless sins.	2003-04-02
US	52883098	R35QRWY0DYEKFJ	0195131398	227640372	Meat-Eating and Human Evolution (Human Evolution Series)	Books	4	21	31	N	N	&quot;Love said, come taste my meate...&quot;	&quot;Love said, come taste my meate,<BR>So I did sit and eate.&quot;  John Donne's verse has endeared itself to countless undergraduates, not least through suspicion of a triple-entendre (at the very least).  Be that as it may, the book under review is about ordinary eating of ordinary meat, specifically wild mammal meat.  It supports the traditional consensus view that humans evolved from a mostly-vegetarian ape-like ancestor with a small brain, with the evolution of sociability, intelligence, and cooperation being due in large part to the exigencies of meat-eating.  Meat is good food for the growing brain, among other things, but hunting--in an animal lacking fangs and claws--tends to require a great deal of cooperation.  (In fact, even such fanged creatures as lions and wolves depend on exquisite cooperation within complex social systems.)  Humans evolved in Africa, which seems less well endowed with easily exploited vegetable foods than some other continents, forcing more dependence on hunting and scavenging.  The present book summarizes the enormous recent advances in our understanding of human evolution.  A combination of archaeology, nutrition studies, and comparative studies of other primates have provided new proofs for the old model.  It looks as if humans progressed (if that is the word) from near-vegetarians two million years ago to people who, at the dawn of agriculture 10,000 or 12,000 years ago, were eating anywhere from 10% to nearly 100% animal foods--average perhaps 20%.  Neither the view of humans as natural vegetarians nor the view of humans as savage &quot;killer apes&quot; can be supported.  <BR>     The book suffers from two flaws: first, over-reliance on a very few contemporary hunter-gatherer groups--especially the Hadza, who hunt with bows and metal-tipped poisoned arrows.  These are a far cry from the crude stone tools of early hominids.  Second, the authors seem a bit unclear on whether human advance was due more to meat as a food, or hunting as an activity, or omnivorous foraging (with hunting as only one part).  I vote for the last alternative.  We have evidence enough to make it reasonably clear that human skills in finding and processing vegetable food went right along with improvements in hunting.  By widening their ethnographic net, the authors would have had to deal with hunter-gatherers who relied overwhelmingly on vegetable foods, often cooperatively produced, harvested, and/or processed.  The Australian aboriginals and the Native Americans of what is now the western US come to mind.  <BR>     The serious student of human foodways should definitely read this book!  And the less serious meat-lover can revel in shoving it under the noses of those vegetarians who insist that theirs is the &quot;natural&quot; way.	2003-02-06
US	52883098	RZ1FYEVH0111Z	0791455645	478779869	Classical Horizons: The Origins of Sociology in Ancient Greece	Books	2	6	10	N	N	What Are You Saying?	I picked up this book in hopes that it was a study of ancient Greek social thought and how that led to modern sociology.  It turns out that the book is, in fact, about the influence of Greek philosophy on the Holy Trinity of Sociology: Marx, Weber and Durkheim.  Well, none the worse for that; we have long needed such a study.<BR>     George McCarthy's book has much useful information on the background, education, and scholarship of the Big Three--all of whom were (like every educated person of Europe in their time) well read in the classical authors.  The book performs a number of useful functions in bringing out the influences, specifically the classical Greek influences, on their thinking.  <BR>     Unfortunately, the book has limitations, some of which inhibit understanding.  it is a short essay rather than a detailed treatment.  It stays at a rather general level.  It consists largely of summary claims.  These are stated as if they were truths, but many are debatable, and some downright wrong.  Among the latter is the oft-repeated generalization that \\"American sociology\\" is purely empirical, and that American sociologists allege the Big Three were positivist scientists!  He does not cite C. Wright Mills, Randall Collins, Steven Brint, Jonathan Turner, Jeffrey Alexander, and a host of others who make this claim nonsense.  <BR>     Most seriously, though, it seems less dedicated to its stated purpose than to establishing a view of the Big Three that emphasizes their opposition to something called \\"positivism.\\"  One soon realizes this cannot mean the philosophy of science normally called \\"positivism\\" and identified with Ernst Mach, Rudolph Carnap and Karl Popper; Marx predates them, while Weber and Durkheim generally ignored them.  We have to wait until page 134 for McCarthy's definition.  For him, positivism is the view that \\"the world exists as an external thing in itself...science is ethically neutral...\\" and people can know things that are true.  Throughout thebook, positivism seems to be equated with believing that one can make true claims about the world.  <BR>     It would certainly come as a surprise to Marx, Weber and Durkheim that they were denying this.  All were excellent scholars (the first two were superb), and all were terribly concerned with establishing points and claims about the real world.  Marx was, of course, a materialist who championed his \\"science of history\\"--certainly not naive empiricism, and MOST certainly not value-free, but science nonetheless, based on a vast mass of the best information that could be found (Marx didn't spend so much of his life in the British Museum reading room for nothing).  Durkheim's SUICIDE remains a classic example of using data to prove a social theory.  (It is somewhat flawed by modern standards, but modern research basically confirms Durkheim's model.)  <BR>     I suspect that McCarthy meant to say what is actually the case:  that all three knew that facts are real and important (and the world exists), but that facts don't speak for themselves and don't ever tell the whole story--that we need theories, viewpoints, and causal hypotheses, and that we can't escape moral judgements--and that all these matters are socially negotiated.  I think, or hope, that he simply got carried away in equating (for example) Weber's views with the mystical and romantic solipsism of Schopenhauer and Nietzsche, who really did think that one creates one's own truth by sheer force of will and can thus ignore both society and the real world out there.  But I'm not sure.  <BR>He condemns the Enlightenment for its dedication to rationality, liberalism, and empirical science, and maintains (debatably) that the Big Three were opposed to all these.  He condemns, among other things, the \\"political philosophy of possessive individualism and liberal rights\\" (p. 2; elsewhere human rights in general are mentioned). Here and in many other places, he seems to be following the Stalin-Mao reading of Marx,i.e. as a justification for abrogating human rights, and, ultimately, for mass torture, mass terror, and mass murder; similarly, his take on Nietzsche leaves one wondering if he agrees with the Nazi thinkers who used Nietzsche the same way.  Weber and Durkheim get dragged into this by implication.  I hope and trust that this is not what McCarthy means, but by turning the Big Three into apologists for a fuzzy communalist romanticism that views truth and human rights as purely matters of social construction, he leaves himself open for this interpretation. <BR>     Yes, the Big Three were Kantians, who believed passionately in philosophy and science in the service of humanity, and who took much inspiration from the ancient Greeks.  But the Big Three were also passionately dedicated to scholarship, accuracy, and empirical science.  And neither they nor the Greeks advocated \\"The Triumph of the Will\\" in the submergence of individuality and truth in the service of the collective soul.  It is well to remember who did advocate that.<BR>     McCarthy ends the book with a ringing call to reject the Enlightenment in the name of some other, unspecified, vision.  Having seen the results of several attempts to do this in the 20th century, many of us would no doubt prefer to wait until McCarthy spells out exactly what he means.<BR>     In the meantime, specialists may find much of use in this book, but students should be very careful of it.  Students should be reading the primary sources, anyway.  Marx, Weber and Durkheim are eminently clear about their values, ideals, facts, and visions, and do not hide their debt to the Greeks.	2003-01-21
US	52883098	R2TZCEP8K8JGZ0	097140710X	198488325	A History of the Lute from Antiquity to the Renaissance	Books	5	13	13	N	N	Fair treatment for the lute at last!	The lute was the great instrument of the Renaissance, but then it slowly fell from favor, to be revived only recently.  Thus it has been neglected by historians.  The present book provides a wonderful encyclopedic, yet critical and analytic, account of the lute in Europe in the medieval and Renaissance periods.  The author has not covered the Baroque; I hope another volume is forthcoming on that era.  Also, the Near Eastern origins and subsequent flourishing of the 'ud--the ancestor of the lute--are not covered, for lack of materials in Western languages.  Someone fluent in Arabic and Persian must do that job!  Unlike the lute, the 'ud never fell from popularity, and remains a great and major instrument of composition and performance. There is only one real fault in Douglas Smith's book, but it is one that will make strong men weep: There is no discography.  Please, Dr. Smith, post a supplementary discography on the Lute Society of America's website.  Otherwise, this book is comprehensive.  It can be recommended not only to those who (like me) would happily trade the last 150 years of western classical music for a bar of Dowland, but for anyone interested in music history.	2002-12-20
US	52883098	R3BFMNMVM7KXA0	1557987378	494077881	Ethnopolitical Warfare: Causes, Consequences, and Possible Solutions	Books	4	11	11	N	Y	Genocide and violence	This book adds significantly to the far too small literature attempting to explain today's worldwide epidemic of genocide and ethnic violence.  My generation believed we had ended all that by defeating the Nazis.  Not so; there have been a couple of dozen major genocides since, and countless minor massacres.  The book at hand is a collection of chapters by psychologists (and a few other social scientists).  Most of the explanatory material is taken from the area of psychology best developed in this regard: the research on categorization, stereotyping, and stigmatizing.  Among the best chapters is one by Erwin Staub, who has done some of the very finest research on genocide.<BR>     An important part of this book is a series of studies of situations that did NOT turn into genocide, in spite of having the potential to do so:  South Africa, the southern US.... Now ironic is the inclusion of Israel; this book was written before the recent horrors.  However, the chapter is valuable; it attributes the success of Israel to precisely those features that Sharon abolished.  Sure enough--Sharon abolished them, and ethnic violence blew up...<BR>     The book under review emphasizes solutions.  Notable among these is the absolute, desperate need for the world community of nations to intervene! ... <BR>     In any case, anyone concerned with genocide and ethnic war should read this book.  It is thought-provoking and important.	2002-07-21
US	52883098	RZ1SRDIULI1W1	0072554185	711749213	Cultural Anthropology; 9th Edition	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Best introductory text I could find	This remains the best, fullest, most comprehensive, and most reliable introductory cultural anthropology textbook that I can find.  William Haviland's is competitive, but farther from my area of expertise (ecological anthropology).  Thus, I find myself using Kottak, to the profit of my introductory class.  The student aids are noteworthy: excellent CD, excellent lists of terms, chapter summaries, quizzes, questions, everything.<BR>    I agree with the overall approach and most of the specifics.  I could probably find some theoretical point to debate on every page, if I wanted to be obsessive, but I find only minor errors of fact.  (Prestige is NOT the same as cultural capital [p. 263]; the map color key is wrong on p. 375....)  The only serious mistake is giving credence to Michael Harner's theory that Aztec cannibalism was due to shortage of protein; this idea was conclusively refuted by Bernard Ortiz de Montellano and others.<BR>     My only real complaint with the book is that Kottak keeps using &quot;we&quot; and &quot;our society&quot; to mean middle-class Anglo-America. This may still work somewhere, but in my class it excludes 80% of the students, 50% of the TA's, AND the professor.  Most of my students are 1st or 2nd generation immigrants, largely from Asia, many from Latin America.  Many have no idea of what middle-class Anglo-American culture is up to.  (As Dan Moerman pointed out some years ago, that old Nacirema paper is totally lost on most of our students these days.)<BR>     Even so, I will use this text again next year (barring unforeseen circumstances). It's the best on the block.	2002-06-07
US	52883098	R20K1HDXGE2WM7	0824519728	691099548	Henry Ossawa Tanner: A Spiritual Biography (Lives & Legacies)	Books	5	28	28	N	Y	Excellent biography of a great artist	One of the most stunning moments in my art-watching career came many years ago in the Philadelphia Museum of Art, when I suddenly came upon Henry Tanner's painting &quot;The Annunciation.&quot; I remained transfixed for many minutes. It remains my favorite religious painting of the last couple of centuries.  I soon learned that the artist was the first African-American to make it to the artistic top, the stratospheric heights of French Salon shows and membership in the American National Academy of Design.  Tanner was almost forgotten for a long time, but there is a flock of webpages and internet resources on him now, as well as this wonderful biography.<BR>     Marcus Bruce has written a brief book that lays out Tanner's lifecourse, centering on the religious and spiritual side, which was, in fact, Tanner's true focus.  (Tanner, a minister's son, remained deeply religious all his life.)  This book is not only clear and authoritative; it has some of the most insightful art criticism that I have seen.  Bruce is far from the &quot;in the right corner we see a dog&quot; school of art writing. He describes the paintings in relation to Tanner's spiritual quest, and Tanner's vision of the world and humanity. His account of my beloved &quot;Annunciation&quot; is a real masterpiece.<BR>     My only complaint with this book (besides sloppy editing--there are too many typos) is that it is too short and does not have color pictures!  I hope, even pray, that Dr. Bruce will go on to do a full-scale, large-format art book about Henry Tanner, with the major works in full color.  Tanner certainly deserves it--he still has not received the recognition he deserves--and Bruce is the man to do it.	2002-05-28
US	52883098	RP5XQ898OLRRE	0198250932	353620286	The Demands of Consequentialism	Books	4	8	9	N	N	Consequences?	This is an excellent study of ethics. Mulgan considers whether ethical principles demand that we devote our lives entirely to doing the most possible good in the world; this he calls Simple Consequentialism. He concludes that such a life is too demanding, since it leaves no time for people to do their own \\"projects\\" and pursue their own \\"goals\\"; thus it is alienating and compromises personal integrity. He resolves this problem in a new and interesting way: by saying we should attend to satisfying human needs, and be thoroughly consequentialist in the Realm of Necessity, but we also have to act as social beings, and in that Realm of Reciprocity we have to be full human beings, with goals and projects--which we are therefore free to pursue.  (I am oversimplifying a very complex and technically quite brilliant argument.  Apologies to Dr. Mulgan.)<BR>    The book is clear and readable--a MOST welcome relief from so  much modern philosophy (de-re-deconstruction, being-thereness as nonbeingness, neo-neo-Nietzsche, Heaven knows what). It will also inspire you to live a better life, unless you are already a saint. It is a really worthwhile read. (Parts are difficult, though, unless you are already somewhat literate in Oxford University ethical traditions--Mulgan sometimes forgets he isn't dialoguing in the commons room).<BR>     All that said, I disagree with the conclusions. A Simple Consequentialist could surely reply: First, the world is in such a mess that the Realm of Necessity is overwhelmingly important right now.  Second, \\"goals, projects, integrity, alienation,\\" etc., are terms rather redolent of psychobabble; do we sacrifice good solid food, clothing, shelter, peace and justice for abstractions that are very sketchily defined in this book? Third, and this is the real skewer: In so far as personal goals and projects are real, important, and worthy of attention, how can they not be Good? Surely, any worthwhile goal or project is one that makes the world better. If it makes the world worse, it will make the individual even more alienated and integrity-deficient. Fourth, Simple Consequentialism is not necessarily so demanding; there are times--lots of them, in my experience--when the only good we can do is being good to ourselves. One might also argue that raising good kids who devote their lives to serving humanity is fun, rewarding, a worthwhile goal and project, and much better for the human race than is just ordinary giving-to-charity (Mulgan's recurrent example of ethical good).  Simple Consequentialism also has the advantage of being clear: you have to keep reassessing, day by day, your plans for living, and Simple C gives you a straightforward measure: everything is to be for the world's best. (I admit I fail most of the time, but at least I then feel guilt and shame.)<BR>    One complaint: Mulgan distinguishes between \\"animals,\\" who are \\"irrational\\" and thus do not have \\"goals,\\" from people, and thus writes off the various arguments (think: Peter Singer, Mary Midgeley...) for being moral to animals. I am not sure what to do with Singer and Midgeley, but I can assure Dr. Mulgan that the higher animals are smart enough to have real goals and projects, and to be considered accordingly. Their goals may be no higher than staying alive, getting along with the herd or pack, and raising their young in the best way possible, but many humans can hope for no more than that. One also recalls the point made by Midgeley (and others) about infants and mentally deficient humans; they are no more \\"rational\\" than the critters, yet we value them and take care of them and, hopefully, respect their rights. <BR>    I still highly recommend this book. I wouldn't have thought of all those matters without it. I would infinitely rather read a clever book that makes me think than a dull one that I agree with. This book is clear, thought-provoking, and sobering. Above all, it makes you reassess and (I hope and trust) improve your behavior. Perhapsthis is an example of a personal \\"project\\" that is also the best thing for humanity.	2002-05-23
US	52883098	R2Z3AWMK4F7LZB	0465061508	59964273	A Problem from Hell: America and the Age of Genocide	Books	5	4	9	N	N	Essential Reading	This is one book that every literate person should read.  More and more genocides are occurring, and the world is doing less and less to stop them.  Power could have added Sudan, Sierra Leone, Guatemala, Argentina, and a dozen other countries to her list of those in which genocide and \\"democide\\" (as Rudolph Rummel calls it) has been tolerated or covertly encouraged in recent years.  The most atrocious offender countries have, or have had, seats on the Human Rights Commission.  The world political community has much to answer for.	2002-05-07
US	52883098	RGP8ETESHH4DI	0742513335	788798406	The Ethics of Food: A Reader for the Twenty-First Century	Books	1	27	32	N	N	Biases in the name of ethics	This should be a good book. It deals with current debates about food--mostly about genetically modified (genetically engineered) food, but with a nod to vegetarianism, the food industry, and other issues.  Essays from both sides of the issues are presented.<BR>     Unfortunately, this is not a good book. The problem is that the essays are not serious or scientific pieces, but popular op-ed items, many of them outrageously biased and distorting.  The editor has good credentials as an ethicist and expert on the issues, and so do a few of the writers (Norman Borlaug, Nicols Fox...), but most of the writers are political acitivists, industry shills, or experts on technology who are notably ignorant of ethics. Even the editor himself takes leave of his hard-won credentials in his essay here, which is long on rhetoric and very short on data.  <BR>     The section on vegetarianism may stand as typical: it consists of a short article by Peter Singer, longtime anchor of the most extreme pro-animal and anti-meat side, and an even shorter piece by Stuart Patton, who presents half-truths in defense of the meat industry.  Similarly, in a section on food biotechnology, Marc Lappe, who is well beyond the pale in the anti-industry direction, is balanced by Andrew Trewavas, an industry apologist. They simply dismiss each other's arguments--hardly a credible way to deal with real problems.<BR>      The sole exception is the section on the food industry, which matches Nicols Fox' good, well-researched reportage with a thorough, objective report by USFDA on its regulation system.  Comparing this section with the rest of the book shows what could have been done--and wasn't.<BR>     Because of the general lack of extensive, fair, data-based treatment of the issues, both scientific and ethical, the book loses all chance of presenting a reasonable middle ground on the ethical issues. On genetically modified foods, for instance, the sensible position would be test them for safety, as we test other new foods, and use them if they pass the tests.  Instead, what we have in the world today is a choice: either totally trust the food industry and use the new foods without serious test, as we do in the US, or ban them outright and lose all their very real advantages, as Europe does.  This choice is neither reasonable nor necessary.<BR>    It seems to me that the world already has far too much biased and inadequate reportage and rhetoric--not least in the area of food ethics. Giving it more spin, under a prestigious editorship and publisher, seems to me rather less than helpful. <BR>      The editor has neglected better material; SCIENCE magazine, for example, has carried moderate and data-driven op-ed pieces, letters, and articles on several of these topics.	2002-05-07
US	52883098	R3EZYK7SSSX8CR	027597510X	292343004	IQ and the Wealth of Nations	Books	1	51	119	N	N	Racist Nonsense Rewarmed	The authors of this book have shown a good correlation between measured IQ and recent economic performance of the world's nations.  For what it's worth, this seems fair.  They also perform a useful function by summarizing, and summarily dismissing, various theories of wealth of nations that deserve little attention: climate, natural resource endowment, and so on.<BR>     Like most of the racist literature, they take IQ to be a very good measure of genetic ability, with little environmental influence.  (Nutrition is allowed a tiny effect.)  Cultural influences on scores are minimized.<BR>     This gets them into dubious waters. Tests on immigrants, given in the language of the receiver country, are taken seriously.  It is quite standard in the area where I live to test monolingual-Spanish-speaking children in English.  Yet the authors' lowly IQ for Mexico (84) is based partly on tests of immigrant children. The authors admit that some of their Turkish data is derived from tests in Dutch, in the Netherlands, on recent immigrants. Yet they take these results seriously (though they discard the \\"vocabulary\\" part of the Dutch test).  Much of the assessing was done by the Raven \\"nonverbal\\" test, which is prone to experimenter error.<BR>     Even the authors cannot maintain that IQ explains all. Spain and Portugal were both desperately poor a generation ago; now Spain is rich, Portugal better off but far from affluent.  Greece has gone from rags to riches.  Meanwhile, China (\\"IQ 100\\"--how does one generalize about such a diverse country?)remains terribly poor, and so do many East European countries with high measured IQs.  And, of course, North Europe (overall IQ around 100) was one of the most backward, ignorant, and uncouth areas of the world until the late Middle Ages.  Much of West Africa was far higher on the civilization scale during the earlier Dark Ages.  Clearly, politics and other events matter, in determining the wealth of nations.<BR>     Some of the measured IQs are truly preposterous.  Qatar (at 79, herein) is a rich country with a highly educated citizenry.<BR>Turkey (85) and India (81) are genetically wildly diverse, have highly educated and successful communities, and cannot be well captured by these figures.  Even worse is the ranking of Ethiopia at 63.  If this were true, most Ethiopians would be  genuine mental defectives, virtually unable to walk and talk, certainly unable to read or farm. Yet Ethiopia has a major and ancient civilization, a small but significant literature, a great art tradition, and a number of famous scholars (today and in the past).  Anyone who has worked or traveled in Ethiopia knows that the people are a very, very sharp lot; far from mentally defective, they are strikingly verbal and quick. Something is wrong here.<BR>      The data in this book are less consistent with the authors' claims than they are with the following counterclaim: first, IQ is strongly affected by education and culture as well as genetics; second, IQ MEASUREMENT is often wildly wrong and ineptly done, especially in the old and poorly controlled studies often cited herein; and, third, that national wealth produces the education, cultural change, and good nutrition that then produces higher IQ scores in fortunate populations. National wealth creates high IQ, not the other way around. The world rise in IQ scores over the last 50 years (the Flynn effect) is solid evidence for this scenario.<BR>      This book has its uses, but it is primarily a rewarming of the old racist garbage that fueled Hitler and his followers.  Readers are advised to use great caution, particularly in accepting national scores based on only a few old studies.	2002-04-30
US	52883098	R1WQRGXH343QAY	0472067834	381986377	Our Women Are Free: Gender and Ethnicity in the Hindukush	Books	4	11	12	N	N	A readable ethnography!	What miracle is this--a new ethnography that is actually readable!?  Maggi writes good English, is theoretically sophisticated without jargon...She provides a wonderful and detailed description of women's lives among the Kalasha--the famous \\"pagan\\" community of northern Pakistan.  The women are not only more \\"free\\" than neighboring Muslim women; they are also articulate, hospitable, and self-aware enough to talk vividly and insightfully about their lives. Anyone interested in the area should read this book.<BR>I could wish that more were done with theory and hypothesis, but, in compensation, readers are spared the dreadful \\"review of the literature\\" usually obligatory in theses (this book started life as a Ph.D. dissertation).  What matters is that Maggi fulfills what should be the goal of ethnography: making the book interesting enough to give the reader some idea of how richly alive the people themselves are.	2002-04-02
US	52883098	R1V3LZQEHTQ0T3	0813339812	380248953	Plate Tectonics: An Insider's History Of The Modern Theory Of The Earth	Books	5	24	24	N	N	Delightful &quot;insiders' history&quot;	This book will delight all historians of science.  The indefatigable Naomi Oreskes, known for her excellent history of continental drift and plate tectonics, has assembled reminiscences by the surviving founders of plate tectonics theory.  Dr. Oreskes deserves the highest praise for this. Alas, the senior figures such as Arthur Holmes and Harry Hess are no longer with us; the writers of these essays were graduate students in the critical early 1960s.  Now elders themselves, they recall the excitement of coming on the scene just when all was breaking loose. Even the most sober number-crunchers manage to write with infectious enthusiasm.  The theories are explained in a notably accessible fashion, and the varied intellectual currents of the time (and, in some essays, subsequent decades) are brought out. My one complaint--as a reader interested in the history of science--is that the writers don't say much about their personal lives.  One suspects that some of them have no personal lives beyond number-crunching.  Most, however, hint at or partially reveal rich and interesting backgrounds that clearly affected their thoughts. Only Peter Molnar does much more than hint, and, although he claims that one reader called his essay &quot;unexpurgated,&quot; even he is rather reticent.  Still, this volume is a gold mine, providing a very different look at one of the most &quot;revolutionary&quot; (in scare quotes) theoretical advances in the history of science. The consensus here seems to be that it was indeed a revolution, at least in the eyes of American graduate students of the 1960s, but not a Kuhnian revolution brought about by highly intellectualized &quot;paradigm shifts&quot; (Kuhn 1962); it was brought about by new field methods that brought floods of new data. These allowed the development of real mathematical models.  One can only stand in awe of the amount of work this entailed. Several authors speak of working day and night, week after week, on data entry and computer jockeying. They managed this without any loss of enthusiasm--quite the reverse, apparently.  Ah, youth.	2002-03-22
US	52883098	R36MLT1NVRKO8Z	0140442472	562100275	A Celtic Miscellany: Translations from the Celtic Literature (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	13	14	N	Y	A great collection	This has been one of my two or three very favorite books since it came out.  I read from it almost every day.  I think that anyone interested in poetry or literature or just in the human spirit should have it by their sides.   It is a wonderful selection, beautifully translated.  It brings out the two things I like best about Celtic literature:  the intense, immediate sensitivity to nature, and the extreme importance given to individual men and women (as opposed to the great big abstractions, symbols, word games, etc., in so much of literature).  The Celts seem to have remembered, more often than most people, that individual human beings matter.	2001-08-17
US	52883098	R3D1YCBLGIXU3N	0521791677	709625003	Timber Booms and Institutional Breakdown in Southeast Asia (Political Economy of Institutions and Decisions)	Books	4	9	9	N	N	Why Conservation Breaks Down	This is an excellent case study of the failure of conservation policies.  It describes the destruction of the forests of the Philippines, Malaysia (specifically Sabah and Sarawak), and Indonesia. Each has gone from largely forested to almost totally deforested in 40 years; SCIENCE magazine in May called for desperate last-ditch attempts to saving the last lowland forests of Indonesia, where only the national parks are left and even they are now being illegally logged.  Yet all these countries--especially the Phils and Malaysia--once had excellent forestry policies and departments. There are very few good case studies of the breakdown of conservation and resource management; this is one of them.  In fact, it is one of the very best I have seen on forest destruction in the Third World.  The author introduces the concept of &quot;rent seizure&quot;:  Seizure by government personnel of the power to allocate resources and/or income streams therefrom.  This is, to some degree, just a values-neutral word for &quot;corruption,&quot; but it applies to some cases that are not so much corrupt as simply foolish and expedient. He shows that insecure bosses are more apt to rent-seize than secure ones; they need the support, NOW, of backers that they can pay off with logging rights.  He does not apply his concept to the US or Canada, but one can easily substitute &quot;Idaho&quot; or &quot;British Columbia&quot; for &quot;Philippines&quot; or &quot;Malaysia&quot; in the conclusions of this book.  There are some problems with the book. Ross minimizes the role of other nations, explicitly letting Japan off the hook.  Yet Japan not only provided a vast and unregulated market, but pressured these countries to export round logs, discouraging their processing industries--and thus the value-added that would have made it more worth while to manage sustainably.  Also minimally mentioned is the role of the World Bank and IMF.  Yet these entities played their part.  They continued to give loans to the countries in question, even after they knew that the loan money would be misappropriated and the loan paid back by running down the country's resource base as well as its education and health care institutions; this was particularly notorious in the case of Marcos' Philippines, where World Bank loans went into Imelda's shoe collection.  Ross is also rather less hard on the national government of Malaysia than he might have been; he blames local politicians in Sabah and Sarawak, but much blame should be attached to the national government as well. On the other hand, emphasizing the local scene is a useful corrective to the excessive emphasis on &quot;globalization&quot; that has distorted so much recent literature.       If the human race survives the 21st century, the destruction of the world's tropical forests will be seen as one of the worst crimes in history.  Not only were the forests and their resident people destroyed; the benefits were almost nil.  Southeast Asia's forests went into disposable chopsticks, temporary siding for concrete-pouring, and other throwaway trash of the consumer society.  The orang-utan, the Indonesian rhinoceri, and thousands of other animals are extinct or will soon be, all so that rich people did not have to wash a few dishes.  The indigenous peoples of these countries are driven from their homes and livelihoods, all to produce some trash.  Ross shows us how this could happen--how governments and firms could wind up systematically and calmly working for two generations on such an insane project.	2001-05-18
US	52883098	R3EQKQVKAIZD5F	1853027499	699381723	Pretending to Be Normal: Living With Asperger's Syndrome	Books	4	18	19	N	Y	Valuable and inspiring account	This is a wonderful book, and a strong argument for taking people as they are, rather than holding them up to a fictional ideal.  My only complaint is that it isn't longer and more detailed! I recognize the problems all too well; I have the same set--social inabilities, poor coordination, tendency to sensory overload.  I am writing simply to add a male perspective.  I grew up several decades ago in a rural Midwestern environment that was extremely intolerant of any difference or nonconformity.  I was spared Liane's problems with dressing appropriately, but to make up for it I was inept at sports in a world where boys were judged entirely by their sports ability.  My coordination problems guaranteed that I would be the worst in any class.  In high school, dancing was added to the list.  The combination of physical and social problems was not guaranteed to win me friends.  My biggest problem (among many) as an adult has been that of trusting others.  I can't tell when someone is genuinely being nice, as opposed to when someone is merely shining me on for cynical reasons. I have paid plenty for this inability, and not just financially. I try not to fall into general distrust of everyone, but I never find a happy medium; I still get ripped off, but also I often push people away because I don't know if I can trust them.  I would urge anyone dealing with AS to consider these issues.  Teaching AS kids how and when to trust must be terribly difficult. I wish I could say I've had a happy life, but I have actually made a thorough mess of my life by excessive outspokenness and misplaced trust.  Fortunately, I have a wonderful marriage (after some awful mistakes) and wonderful kids.	2001-03-26
US	52883098	R2WQ1UAU98XQCL	0786865229	680218819	Betrayal of Trust: The Collapse of Global Public Health	Books	3	21	29	N	Y	Good ideas, flawed execution	The message of this book is clear, vitally important, and well driven home:  public health is in bad trouble worldwide, due to failure of public and governmental will.  One might call that &quot;civic culture,&quot; or just plain old-fashioned morality.  In any case, the world's governments are not spending nearly enough on public health.  Garrett deals first with what may be the world's worst cases--Zaire/Congo and the former Soviet Union--and then shows that the same problems, in much less virulent form so far, exist in the United States.  All this is true.  However, I must agree with several other reviewers that the book is full of errors.  The scientific name of the common rat, _Rattus rattus_, is misspelled &quot;_Ratus ratus_&quot; throughout.  In the Zaire chapter, footnote 113 was obviously intended to correct and replace the inaccurate #114, but both were left in.  And so on.  More serious is the extremely cursory and misleading treatment of food, nutrition, and the results of failure in that area.  Garrett loves the romance of new diseases, and tends to ignore problems that are not new or infectious.  She treats nutrition as if nothing of much value were known and as if there were few (if any) problems beyond just getting enough food.  Diabetes is mentioned a few times, but is not in the index.  Yet diabetes is a vastly more important public health problem than Ebola virus, and may soon rival TB and AIDS worldwide, as genetically susceptible individuals consume more and more sugar, alcohol, and the like.  (By contrast, her section on drugs and the failed &quot;War on Drugs&quot; is outstanding.)   But most serious of all is the lack of a coherent plan for solving the world's problems.  Garrett's major recommendation is more spending; necessary, surely, but not a plan in itself.  What should we do first?  What next?  How can we be maximally cost-effective?  How do we balance needs when funding is short--for instance, how should a Third World country balanceproviding clean water against building new hospitals?  Above all, how do we get back the unique morality that brought us public health (as well as public education, conservation, and other public goods) in the early 20th century?  The idea of aggressively acting for the comprehensive benefit of the entire citizenry is really quite rare in history.  As Garrett points out, it is in desperate shape in the US today.  Garrett could have made a much stronger case if she had focused on clear proposals.	2001-02-22
US	52883098	R17HYI5EJEDK9J	0471983268	35635343	Origin and Evolution of Tropical Rain Forests	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Superb summary of a world of data	I love the one previous review--I wish my kids would review my books!  But perhaps we need more detail here.... This is a truly superb integration of a mass of data, much of it unpublished palynological material from oil company files and other sources.  On the basis of these data, Morley manages to overturn every standard cliche about rain forest history.  The rainforests are not as old as often claimed; they took final form in the early Tertiary, or at the oldest in the very late Cretaceous.  The Southeast Asian/Malesian forest is not the origin point for rainforests or for angiosperms; its richness in ancient forms is due to its serving as refugium during many climatic and geotectonic vicissitudes.  Plate tectonics is critical to understanding the history of the forests.  (I recall how plant geographers, in my student days, tied themselves in knots trying to explain rain forest plant distributions without invoking the hated and feared theory of continental drift.)  The whole story, as told by Morley, is amazingly gripping--a sort of mega-detective-story.  If you are literate in tropical plant taxonomy, you will be on the edge of your chair, whether you are a botanist, a cultural ecologist (like me), or just a plant lover.  Be warned, though--if you haven't been there (to at least a couple of tropical rain forest areas) and gotten to know the major families, this book will be hard going. The book closes with the inevitable and all too appropriate gloom.  My grandchildren will probably never see a tropical rain forest.  By the time they will be old enough to travel, there will be no tropical rain forests left, except perhaps in inaccessible reserves--unless we can turn around a process that seems out of control.  Morley blames &quot;short-term human greed&quot; on his ultimate page (286), but the truth is more complex; see William Ascher's book, WHY GOVERNMENTS WASTE NATURAL RESOURCES, for the whole story. Anyway--this is one book that should be on the &quot;must read&quot; list of everyone interested in tropical forests or in paleobotany.	2001-02-10
US	52883098	R33BSDYSD8E35Y	0231111576	385200397	Imperfect Balance: Landscape Transformations in the Precolumbian Americas	Books	5	11	11	N	N	Essential Reading for Human Ecologists	This book draws together a huge range of data on Native American plant and animal use and environmental management in pre-Columbian times. The chapters are by leading authorities, and are comprehensive enough to inform the scholar, while well-written and accessible enough to be valuable to the beginning student.  In recent years, publishers have given us a plethora of badly informed books on traditional Native American resource management.  Most of them either portray Native Americans as ecological saints or as wasteful destroyers.  To such works, the present book is an ideal antidote.  It discusses the major known cases in which Native American cultures intensively modified the landscape to produce highly productive, long-sustained agricultural systems.  The authors wisely refrain from pontificating on the saint vs. savage issue, but the implication is clear: Native American land management systems were highly diverse but usually sustainable, at least in the medium term, and often exceedingly complex and sophisticated. Notable and very valuable are chapters reviewing the natural vegetation of each region.  These not only provide necessary background for the specific case studies; they are also wonderful review articles in their own right. In particular, the chapters on South America bring together materials previously accessible only through many scattered sources in several languages.    This book is an absolute &quot;must read&quot; for ecological anthropologists and ethnobiologists.  It seems to me to be only slightly less indispensable for ecologists, environmentalists, and environmental historians. On the whole, the book is not action-oriented; it provides data, not applications.  Charles Peters' chapter is a welcome exception.  While sympathizing with the authors' overall goal of providing &quot;just the facts, ma'am&quot; (as Joe Friday used to say), I am glad Dr. Peters took the next step, and I rather wish that at least some of the other authors had gone farther in that direction.	2001-01-08
US	52883098	R6EDYIB9SH5V5	0688153054	145025792	A Mediterranean Feast: The Story of the Birth of the Celebrated Cuisines of the Mediterranean from the Merchants of Venice to the Barbary Corsairs, with More than 500 Recipes	Books	5	20	21	N	Y	Food scholarship	This is an amazing resource, a thorough compendium of Mediterranean  foodlore.  Perhaps the most valuable aspect is the ethnographic research,  with many unique folk recipes from the author's own observations.  Almost  equally valuable is the amazing bibliography, which lists all the  significant historical works on food in the region, including medieval Arab  titles.  The author is far too modest on p. 567 when he claims to be a mere  &quot;food writer&quot; and &quot;consumer of scholarship.&quot;  The  scholarship here is superior and incredibly up-to-date on matters ranging  from wheat taxonomy to Meccan trade.  A few tiny errors have crept in  (foxtail millet is NOT panic millet...).  I disagree with the negative  reviewer, above, on everything except one point:  the organization of the  recipes in the book is beyond rational analysis.  But one can use the  indexes, where everything is arranged for the cook.	2000-09-13
US	52883098	R2UXF6SIR93E4H	0262194325	546236096	Feeding the World: A Challenge for the Twenty-First Century	Books	4	20	24	N	Y	When to Be Optimistic	Smil's book is a &quot;must read&quot; for anyone interested in the world  food problem.  His most valuable contribution is his insistence, backed up  with an unparalleled marshalling of facts, that the biggest hope in the  short run lies in greater efficiency.  By looking at the whole food cycle,  from field to final end, he can show (correctly) that waste all along the  line is costing us more than enough food to feed all the hungry AND many of  the unborn.  Water and fertilizer are lost in the field, grain goes to rats  and weevils during storage, and so on down to the appalling plate waste in  the US.  Smil does not side with the catastrophists who project imminent  famine (they have been wrong too often) nor with the cornucopians who see  nothing but plenty ahead (he dismisses them with the tart comment that,  ultimately, the earth would have to be all grain if food and population  kept growing).  He is, however, on the optimistic side, seeing existing and  fairly easily-developed technology as quite adequate to feed the expected  world population.  There are some problems.  First, he accepts the hopeful  premise that world population will level off around 10 billion.  In spite  of the mantra-like repetition of this figure by aid agencies, it is  probably too optimistic.  China is barely managing to sustain its one-child  policy, and population growth is still rapid in the Middle East, South  Asia, Africa, and Latin America; many countries show no sign of slowing.   Second, he adopts the most optimistic possible figures or scenarios on soil  erosion and some other variables.  Desertification, for instance, he  ascribes largely to natural climatic swings.  This is not credible; there  are far too many photographs, from around the world, of desertification  that stops short at barbed-wire fences (which prevent overgrazing). On the  other hand, he does not say much about minor and obscure crops, and still  less about obscure cropping regimes and methods.  Use of such technologies  (found mostly among traditional peoples around the world) could vastly  increase the productivity of world agriculture. One notes, going beyond  this book, that some countries today are as badly off as the most  pessimistic of catastrophists feared:  Sudan, Ethiopia, Afghanistan,  Nicaragua, Mali, and many more.  These are countries with weak and usually  tyrannical governments, often torn by conflict.  Conversely, some countries  have done as well as the most cheery optimists could have hoped; these are  mostly European countries with strong, democratic governments with high  levels of accountability.  In between, countries fall neatly into line  along a continuum.  China, Smil's and my main area of expertise, is in the  stretch. Smil, arguing against Lester Brown, sees much hope for China.   However, China's government is currently toward the weak and tyrannical  end, making Lester Brown's gloomy predictions look more reasonable.  China  has a long history of saving itself at the last minute, and Smil may be  right in the end.  But China also has a long, long history of famine caused  by inept governance. Anyway, the point is made, and I wish Smil had made  it:  Good government, not technology and not food waste, is the key.   This  being said, Smil's book is about the best out there at the present, and  brings together a huge array of important facts, many of them otherwise  almost impossible to find in the specialized literature.  Anyone interested  in world futures had better read it.	2000-08-23
US	52883098	R2O2V3691JYMBY	0465056741	948062344	Philosophy in the Flesh: the Embodied Mind & its Challenge to Western Thought	Books	3	231	246	N	N	Good message, problematic execution	Lakoff and Johnson make strong claims for second-generation cognitive science as a potential revolution in philosophy.  By and large, they are  right in their general claims.  (And they are not &quot;reifying  science,&quot; only telling us what's current in one branch of one  science.)  Indeed, the mind is in the body, and we use metaphors.  The  actual way we think is very different from what most philosophers assumed,  and that is an important realization.  However, they could do a better job  with the execution.  The other reviews have covered a lot of this ground,  so I will stick to a few important issues. 1. Damasio.  In spite of a  couple of references to rather dated Damasio work, they do not take into  account the genuinely revolutionary importance of A. and H. Damasio's  findings about the inseparability of emotion and cognition in the human  brain.  This absolutely epochal finding has been largely ignored, due in  part to Damasio's less than philosophically sophisticated writeup of it in  DESCARTE'S ERROR.  One would hope that L and J would supply the  sophistication rather than joining in the ignoring. 2.  Darwinian  psychology.  L and J's writeup on Darwin confines itself to an attack on  pop-Darwinism of the TIME and NEWSWEEK species.  Yet, their whole book  would be enormously improved by consideration of serious evolutionary  psychology (Cosmides, Tooby, David Buss, et al).  The brain isn't just in  the body; it, and the body it is in, have been shaped by a few million  years of natural selection. That has created particular, and interesting,  problems, such as: 3.  Built-in biases.  People find it exceedingly  difficult to think according to the tenets of formal rationality, because  our minds love to take shortcuts and make plausible assumptions.  This  makes sense in the context of everyday life (see Gert Gigerenzer on this)  but sure plays hell with the sort of &quot;rational thought&quot; that  economists claim we do all the time.  Yet, no serious discussion of this in  L and J. 4.  Kant.  Kant is badly misrepresented in the book.  He (unlike  most of his followers--I admit) was quite aware of the embodiment of mind  and the physical limits on thought, and worked hard to figure out how we  could reason in spite of all.  He pointed out that we do somehow manage to  carry out abstract reason when it comes to math, formal logic, and much  else.  So, why shouldn't we try to apply it to morals?  And he was hardly a  &quot;strict father&quot; in his morality; he was the architect of the  arguments for freedom of speech and many of the other civil liberties we  now take for granted (in the US).   5.  Metaphors.  Are we the slaves of  our metaphors, or their masters?  If we metaphorize &quot;love&quot; (read:   amorous relationships) as a journey, does that mean we seriously think  love is a journey? Relationships also &quot;blow up,&quot;  &quot;break,&quot; &quot;fold,&quot; &quot;die,&quot;  &quot;strengthen,&quot; etc.  We deploy metaphors strategically; we are  sometimes their slaves but usually their masters, as Elizabethan writer and  blues lyricists well know. Thus, when we try, we can think rather more  accurately and abstractly than L and J allow.	2000-08-18
US	52883098	R18J22TC88WFZ6	0691005435	157750898	The Great Divergence: China, Europe, and the Making of the Modern World Economy (The Princeton Economic History of the Western World)	Books	5	26	32	N	Y	Why Europe Won?	In this excellent, tightly reasoned, and data-filled book, Kenneth Pomerantz argues that Europe grew rich, industrial, and mighty after 1500 largely because of expansion, colonization and exploitation of much of the  world (and also by making use of strategically convenient resources at  home).  Conversely, China, economically and scientifically more developed  than Europe as of 1000 or 1100, fell behind after 1500.  Only Europe  developed what Randall Collins calls &quot;rapid development science&quot;  in his work THE SOCIOLOGY OF PHILOSOPHIES; the Chinese, Indians, and even  Native American civilizations had excellent science, but based on very  different plans, and they never made the breakthrough to the rapid  development institutions.  Pomerantz may paint a bit too rosy a picture of  China at times, but the point is true enough.  This book should absolutely  end the facile racist and &quot;culturist&quot; explanations of S.  Huntington, D. Landes and their ilk.  Europe was not somehow superior all  along; it took rapid advantage of a special situation.  There may be more  to the story--many (including Landes--who is right in this case) have  pointed out that Europe's division into many rival states helped, because  several of them found it to their strategic advantage to be ahead of the  others in gaining information and developing technology.  There will be  ongoing debate about what are the drivers of Europe's sudden burst, but,  after this book, no one can afford to ignore China's successes and the  difficulties they make for conventional models.	2000-05-19
US	52883098	R3FMN6HRQDSKT8	0155037978	941850137	Waorani:  The Contexts of Violence and War	Books	5	18	21	N	N	Violence and Culture	This book is an absolute &quot;must read&quot; for anyone interested in human violence.  The Waorani were perhaps the most violent people on earth until peace was brokered by missionaries.  They were the terror of their  neighbors, but they also killed each other; peace may have saved them from  self-destruction.  The Robarcheks had previously studied the Semai Senoi of  Malaysia, who lived in a similar way--by shifting cultivation in tropical  rainforest--but were virtually without any violence, ranking as probably  the most peaceful of humans.  The Robarcheks sought to see why such similar  societies (which even raise their children in broadly similar ways) had  such extreme differences in violence level.  The most important finding was  that both groups were menaced by, and afraid of, stronger neighbors.  The  Waorani could fight back, but could be secure only if they could truly  terrorize their stronger enemies; the Semai could only flee, and learned to  deal with danger by flight rather than by fight. The two cultures developed  many social and psychological mechanisms for reinforcing these differences.  The Robarcheks use these examples to reject naive theories that claim  humans are violent or aggressive by nature. In fact, human cultures vary  enormously in their approaches toward violence, and humans vary their  behavior accordingly.  Implications for dealing with violence are discussed  in the book, and are of obvious importance for the world.	2000-03-17
US	52883098	R3UUT4XHXONKHV	0393047555	182813813	The Ecological Indian: Myth and History	Books	3	58	67	N	Y	Mixed Bag	Earlier customer reviews have tended to comment on bias.  Most of the book is actually very fair, particularly the first few chapters; the treatment of Paul Martin's &quot;Pleistocene overkill&quot; hypothesis is exemplary.  But the last couple of chapters are indeed rather biased, and read perhaps  more &quot;anti-Indian&quot; than Dr. Krech intended.  For example, Dr.  Krech makes it sound as if the buffalo jump was a common, regular  thing--the Indians drove a few million buffalo over a cliff every time they  wanted a light lunch.  Actually, archaeology and common sense both suggest  that a big jump episode was rare.  Try herding buffalo on foot and you'll  understand.  And Krech takes an extreme position in re the Indians'  tendency to kill beaver; most authorities agree that beaver were more or  less conserved until the white trappers got into the act.  Certainly, there  were lots of beaver, and not just in eastern Canada (the area he  considers).  Over a million beaver were trapped out of the southwestern US  in the 1830s and 1840s, in spite of very dense Indian settlement then and  earlier.  The first 5 or 6 chapters would provoke little reasonable  disagreement, but the last 2 or 3 would provoke (or are provoking)  increasingly acrimonious debate among the learned.  Suffice it to say that  if you got the message that the Native Americans were not always models of  selflessness, but were ordinary (if sensible) human beings, you're right,  and this is probably what Dr. Krech intended.  If you got the message that  the Native Americans were bloodthirsty savages who killed wantonly, you're  wrong.  I hope and trust Dr. Krech did not mean that, but he does quote-at  length and with apparent favor--a lot of racist 19th-century writers who  did mean that.	2000-02-25
US	52883098	R16VVCW28UPQCZ	038078209X	909298323	Music, The Brain, And Ecstasy: How Music Captures Our Imagination	Books	4	47	56	N	N	Fun, authoritative, but narrow	I agree with other reviewers that this is a wonderful book--lots of fun and very valuable--but I must also agree that it's pretty narrow.  Jourdain constantly uses &quot;we&quot; (&quot;the music we hear,&quot; tunes  &quot;we&quot; like, etc.) and it's interesting to decode who  &quot;we&quot; are.  My wife asked if he had a mouse in his pocket.  But,  no, his &quot;we&quot; is people whose idea of music is Western classical  music from Bach (or even Mozart) on, plus the more genteel sorts of pop  (Duke Ellington and Eric Clapton but not Robert Johnson or Louis  Armstrong).  &quot;We&quot; find New Guinea music pretty weird stuff.  So  this is a great intro to the more familiar music of the west, and does have  some material on musics of India and Java, but the folk traditions of the  west are neglected--let alone such obscure places as China and Japan.   Medieval music is among those that sound strange to &quot;us.&quot;   Usually, this is sort of irrelevant, even when he concludes that the modern  western scale is somehow better.  But sometimes it traps him in real  errors, as when he traces the early evolution of European music as if it  happened without input from the Near East.  You won't learn here that  &quot;lute&quot; is from Arabic &quot;al 'ud&quot;--and that this  significant derivation of the word reflects a similar and much more  important derivation of the music.  One is also amused by &quot;There's a  good deal of polyrhythm in jazz, but not much elsewhere in the West (p.  129).&quot;  Actually, African influences have guaranteed an abundance of  polyrhythm in blues, Latin American music in general, and plenty of other  good solid Western musics.  And so it goes. However, I don't want to  overemphasize this.  The book is fascinating and even a bit of a  revelation.  Just read it with appropriate sense of the author and his  mouse.	1999-11-19
US	52883098	R1O75VEMQMWCF3	0801860962	862773389	Why Governments Waste Natural Resources: Policy Failures in Developing Countries	Books	5	13	14	N	Y	This book tells it like it is!	Anyone interested in conservation or resource use should have this book.  It is the first book I have seen that actually tells in detail how bad resource use decisions are made in Third World countries.  I picked it up  with a sense of &quot;ho hum--another book on resource econ--I bet I know  it all already.&quot;  I did know most of what Ascher says, but I hung on  every word anyway, because what he does with the info is so original and  incisive.  He provides many case studies of resource management failures.   I have worked in many of the countries involved, and can testify to the  accuracy and insight of the accounts (though he does pull a few punches).    There are some problems.  The worst is that he confines his attention to  Third World countries, even when they are just doing what First World  countries told them.  His discussion of Mexico's disastrous irrigation  policy, for instance, does not include the fact that Mexico was copying the  US, and with US advice.  Mexico was a fine student--managed to wreck the  land, water, and small-farm economy as badly as the US has!  (Ascher might  have compared Charles Wilkinson's BEYOND THE LAST MERIDIAN to the Mexico  case.) Brazil's disastrous &quot;development&quot; of the Amazon was also  inspired by US example (the &quot;winning of the west&quot;--Indian  genocide and all).  In short, Ascher has put his finger on general  processes of resource devastation, not &quot;Third World&quot; ones.  This  being said--this is an essential book for conservationists and resource  economists.	1999-11-06
US	52883098	R27QOP6CUKGQWR	1565843835	686745809	Knowledges: Culture, Counterculture, Subculture	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Good general book, useful to anthropologists and psychologis	Peter Worsley's book will be useful to anyone interested in the anthropology of traditional knowledge.  It is a good general introduction to the area--heavily based, however, on British social anthropology, with minimal references to the American cognitive and ethnobiological schools  or to psychology.    Gene Anderson, UC Riverside	1998-02-07
