US	52885056	R5LZJ23TW931X	0439339227	758351178	Star Wars Jedi Quest The Shadow Trap (Bk 6)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Very Cool Series	Isn't it amazing how a so-called children's series has adults raving about it?  I do feel sorry for those that pass over these Jedi Quest books because they feel they are for younger readers.  Little do they know.   The one relationship in the whole Star Wars univers that has fascinated me the most is the one between Obi-Wan and Anakin.  We all know what it's destined for and that makes it a very heartbreaking journey to go through with them.  But these books make you almost wish that there's some magical way that Obi-Wan and Anakin will work through their feelings.  Shadow Trap shows us Anakin and Obi-Wan at one of those moments in their realationship where they're feeling apart.  Well, Anakin is anyways.  The great thing about this book is that we see it from both of their sides, we see inside both of their minds, their feelings on the matter.  If Anakin could only see that while his Master may be disappointed in an act that he commited previously, he's not cast him off to the wayside, he is simply giving him time to try to deal with it.  But of course, they are thrust into a mission with this tension between them and must try to find a way to deal with it and succsesfully complete their task.  <br />This great little story is full of suprises and I think to say too much about it would give too much away.  Suffice it to say that both Masters Yaddle and Yoda play a big part in it all.  But the big question is, will the end of the story lead to Anakin and Obi-Wan closing that rift between them, or will the circumstances cause that rift to widen?	2003-11-13
US	52885056	R2WIOWXVS7FPJJ	0345428528	713415479	The Unifying Force (Star Wars: The New Jedi Order, Book 19)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Very Satisfying End to the NJO	James Luceno seems to know what he's doing.  This, the last book in the New Jedi Order story arc, kicked my butt.  Sure, there are a couple of things I wasn't as happy about, but we'll get to those in a minute.  Let's concentrate on the good for right now, of which there is an abundance of.  First off, the story was well paced and flew by.  There were over 500 pages in the novel (yay!) but it was paced so well, you wouldn't have known.  The book starts out action packed and doesn't let up for the remainder of the time.  <br />What I also enjoyed about it was the epic feel of it all.  It felt like the final chapter in a five year storyline.  All of the characters, and I do mean all of them, get their time in the sun in this one.  That classic Han Solo humor is in full swing as he and Leia keep finding themselves in one deadly situation after another.  One highlight finds Han and Leia in a Vong invaded space station fighting pretty much side by side with an old bounty hunter nemises of Han's.  One who had been absent this whole storyline.  I appreciate Luceno's prequel humor about Fett's clone-ness in a throwaway line that you should look for.  <br />Luke, oh buddy, this is Luke Skywalker as we've always wanted to see him.  Luke, using what he's learned of the Force in the previous novels and showing everyone he's the master.  I seriously cheered at the book at a certain climatic moment in a battle between Luke and one of his enemies.  This is Luke Skywalker as a full fledged Jedi Master in action, friends, and I enjoyed the heck out of seeing it.  <br />And as powerful as Luke has become, we finally realize that this whole series is about Jacen coming into his own.  All that philisophical talk that bored some fans in the beginning of the series, Jacen's imprisonment during \\"Traitor\\", all of that finally comes to a head as we see Jacen begin to become what he's meant to be and it's an amazing sight to behold.  This, I feel, is what the whole NJO series was leading ustowards.<br />Of course, as I said, all the other characters get a chance to shine.  Lando, Wedge, Talon Karrde, Mara, heck even ol' Nom Anor has his moments.   And I'm telling you, killing major characters in past books pays off here big time, as Luceno uses that fear effectively for some of our heroes.  Will they all make it through this final conflict?  That's up to you to read and find out.  <br />The major problem I had with this book was Jaina.  Sure, she was there for all of the big events and much was made of the fact that she was meant to be there, but I can't see why.  The major thing she did, and maybe this was why she was there now that I think about it, was chase after someone that caused Jacen to go after her and end up where he needed to be.  So maybe she was there to help her brother along in his path in some small way.  Okay, this has been a case of something becoming clear to me as I write it, so maybe I'm wrong in thinking she had no major part to play like she should have.  <br />Overall, this book rocked.  It does look like the end of an old era and the beginning of a new one.  And to me that's both sad and exciting.  Exciting as I would love to see where the new characters go on from here, yet sad because unless future authors just want to keep torturing our old heroes by continually putting them in life threatening situations, it looks like the old heroes are ready to just live their life and put an end to their fighting days.  In essense, the NJO feels like a true passing of the torch series.  But man, what an exciting ride it was.  I've never had such fun reading Star Wars as I did during this remarkable series.  Well done, gang.	2003-11-13
US	52885056	R9ZF2G45GC47E	0312291450	427787085	If Chins Could Kill: Confessions of a B Movie Actor	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Highly Entertaining	You wanna make it in Hollywood?  Well, friends, it takes a TON of dedication, loads of patience, a good bit of luck, a dash of talent, and a great deal of hard work.  And after you put all that in, you may be lucky to attain the level of a \\"B\\" movie actor.  The guy that stars in movies the major mainstream audiences will never see.  Or is offered bit parts in the bigger movies and a few roles on sydnicated tv shows that could lead to guest stints on popular programs.  You know, enough so that when people see you in something, they say, \\"Hey, haven't I seen that guy somewhere before?  Lois and Clark?  X-Files?  Hercules?\\"  <br />Well, that guy is Bruce Campbell.  And what's amazing, in this book, not only does he portray himself as this kind of guy in an amusingly self depreciating manner, but he seems genuinely HAPPY to be that guy.  This is a guy who remembers where he came from and how far he's come just to get the success that he's got.  Anyone that's seen Bruce on screen, or has caught interviews with him or commentaries on his movies knows that he is a funny, interesting guy who always has something compelling to say that makes you just want to listen to him.<br />And that comes off on page in spades.  As he explores his life and career from goofing around the neighborhood with his friends and brothers to starring in super 8 films in high school all the way to his cameo role as the ring announcer in his buddy Sam Raimi's little flick \\"Spider-Man\\", he takles it all with the honesty and abundance of wit you've come to expect from him.  We're there with Bruce as he endures the torturous shoot on \\"Evil Dead\\" and Tom Arnold on \\"McHale's Navy\\".  <br />We're with him every difficult step of the way to what is best described as \\"cult\\" stardom.   But whether you've even heard of this guy or not is irrelevent, you should give the book a read.  You'll turn the pages as fast as you can, just to see what ol' Bruce is gonna get himself into next.  <br />The mainstream may only know him as \\"That Guy\\", but they are the ones missing out.  Missing out on a talented and all around down to earth nice guy.  So do yourself a favor, pick up this book and start to get to know him.	2003-02-02
US	52885056	R1XQJCGTIVNHFE	0743211375	124087136	From a Buick 8	Books	4	0	1	N	N	Like Spending an Evening With a Friend	Sitting down to read From a Buick 8 is like sitting down to listen to an old friend of your father's spin a yarn about something interesting that happened back in the day.  You keep wanting to stick around to hear more.  The story flows in kind of an easy going pace that still manages to keep your interest.  I especially liked how stories of the strange and dangerous Buick are framed around stories of routine state trooper duties.  It keeps the story grounded in a way that makes it seem like it actually could have happened.<br />What I really liked about this story was how it's told.   All the different perspectives of the various troopers were exceedingly well done.  Sandy being our main story teller, but he's helped out by a couple of his buddies to fill in gaps and such in their own unique ways.  We get to know these troops and understand where they're coming from.  This makes it easy to feel their fear and anticipation when the Buick starts any number of it's weird light shows that could lead to who knows what coming through it's trunk.  <br />We're drawn, as Curt Wilcox is drawn, to the mystery of the not quite car, and thusly just as frustrated as he is by the seeming lack of answers to that mystery.   We can see how it becomes sort of a weird item in the background of Troop D's normal goings on, as we feel a part of the D family.    <br />The book is basically just ruminations of how the car came into being (how it came to be in Shed B anyways) and the many occurances surrounding it.  However, past and present collide as Curt Wilcox's son, Ned, is drawn into the mystery of the car, just as his dad was, if not in more dangrous ways than Curt.<br />Whatever you do, don't go in expecting a King book that gives you a monster that chases the characters around as they fight for their lives the entire book.  No, you might be disappointed indeed if you come in with that mindset.  Just sit down, relax and enjoy the tale as it is unfolded before you as only a master storyteller can do.	2002-10-26
US	52885056	R2YE30L4IB12S6	0345428501	87344379	Destiny's Way (Star Wars: The New Jedi Order, Book 14)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Destiny's Way	Hmmmm.  I kind of have mixed feelings about this book.  On the one hand, I did enjoy the heck out of it and found myself blowing through it as fast as I could, but on the other, it seemed something was missing.   The troubling thing is, I can't quite put my finger on WHAT it is.  On the surface, it seems to be a totally satisfactory addition to the NJO, big and dramatic and action packed, but there's that one ingredient that seems to have been left out.<br />Maybe it's just me, but all the authors seem to enjoy writing Han the best, simply because he's always the funnest character to read.  Not to mention that he consitantly stays true to who he was in the movies in pretty much all the books, even when he's going through a deep crisis.  He's always Han, unlike say, Luke, who it seems that some author's just can't figure out how to write him.  It's no different here with Han and Leia starting off the book and Han getting some Imperial sized digs in on one of the Empire's officers they find themselves giving a ride home.  Really fun stuff and it carries throughout the book when Han is around.<br />I also enjoyed reading Luke and Vergere's verbal sparring, going back and forth, learning from each other.  You get the feeling that Vergere actually respected Luke and who he was.  Unfortunatly, Luke spends most of the book doing just that, talking.  But that's okay, he's still Luke and keeps in character, plus I'm sure he'll get another chance to shine.<br />If you dig space battles, this book is the one for you.  It is LOADED with them.  Most of the action in the book is to be had within cockpits of X-Wings.  This, of course, brings me to Jaina.  Maybe it's me, but she's just not that fun to read anymore.  I know characters have to go through hard times, but I still managed to actually like Anakin Skywalker when he's going through them.  Jaina is simply turning into an unpleasant character.  I guess it's part of her developement, but I hope she comes out of it soon.  <br/>The last part of the book, the whole &quot;turning point&quot; battle, is very suspenceful and the fight with the Vong underground was well done.  Some people didn't like paticulary how that battle ended (with the players the author decided to use), but I thought it was good enough.  Not every major fight has to be about a grudge match, I'm sure Jacen will agree.  Either way, it was great to see our favorite military leader from Return of the Jedi, Admiral &quot;It's a trap!&quot; Ackbar making a major contribution to the story.<br />Jacen coming back to the fold, I felt was supposed to be a big deal.  And in a way, it was.  He comes back with a new found philosophy that could possibly make him one of the greatest Jedi ever, but it seems rather anticlimatic when he does make his return.  I was expecting him to be at the forefront of helping the Republic help defeat the Vong, but he seemed to be pushed back in the background a little, mainly just worrying about his sister and helping out Vergere.  I'm sure they have something more for him planned in future installments, so maybe it's just that I wanted more for one of my favorite newer characters.<br />All things said, it is a fairly entertaining book with a lot of stuff going on.  Maybe that's what keeps it from being all that it can be.  Too much and not really anything to focus on.  However, even with that, it's a fun book you probably won't want to miss, and one you definatly shouldn't miss if you're keeping up with the NJO.	2002-10-22
US	52885056	R1LEQ2T44SWVDJ	0553260111	561287091	The Bourne Identity (Bourne Trilogy No.1)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Groovy cool!	I picked up this dandy after seeing the excellent Matt Damon movie.  As many have said, the book is a totally different story, but both are very good in their own ways.  The premise is the same.  Man loses memory and finds he has some disturbing gifts as he tries to regain said memory.<br />Ludlum's novel is chock full of suspense, thrills and kills.  The action seems almost non stop, but remarkably, there seems to be room enough for a well executed plot.<br />The story moves along with the action and Ludlum only lets the reader know enough to be only a couple of steps ahead of Bourne.  We find out pretty much as he finds out.  Another thing the author does well is put our hero (or is he an anti-hero?  You'll find out soon enough) into situations that the reader has no idea what he can do to get out of it.  And the really cool thing is that sometimes, even Bourne doesn't realize he's in these situations.<br />The pace flies and Ludlum ties the complicated plot together satisfyingly enough at the end that the reader is left happy, yet hungering for more &quot;Bounre&quot;.	2002-08-29
US	52885056	RDAVKISY9YSVD	0345428684	499156103	Rebel Stand: Enemy Lines 2 (Star wars: The New Jedi Order)	Books	5	4	6	N	N	NJO Keeps Getting Better and Better	The Vong continue their domination of the galaxy.  Our heros are pushed back against the wall.  Now, it's time to take the offensive.  There is a sense of fun and excitment in this book that reminds one why he is a Star Wars fan.  Sure, the nature of the story line is dark, But Allston manages to inject the sort of humor into it that we've come to expect from our heros.  <br />I guess the first big plus about this book is the fact that it has Luke Skywalker in full Jedi Master mode leading an expedition into fallen Coruscant.  A Dark Jedi like none other is rearing it's ugly head and the Vong are also on the hunt.  Let's just say that lightsabers flash with abundance during this mission!<br />Meanwhile, Han and Leia are abroud trying to set up resistance cells and getting into trouble as only they can.  What I find when watching all five of the SW movies is that Artoo Detoo saves the day at least once in each of them.  Well, our little artoo unit comes up with some heroics here, as well, in one of the most exciting parts of the books dealing with Han and Leia escaping a prison where they are being held for the Vong.<br />And if that weren't enough, the defense of Borelias is where we find all our X-Wing excitement.  Wedge leads a defense that includes Kyp, Jag and Jaina and most Aaron Allston readers already know that he can do the space battle thing.  Wait'll you see Wedge flying by the seat of his pants against a squadran of Vong.  Exciting stuff.  What I really admire about this whole section of the book is that we have no idea what Wedge's master plan is until it actually happens, which hightens the suspence factor up a few notches or so.<br />So, in conclusion, this is a Star Wars book that has everything.  Luke vs. Dark Jedi, Han and Leia getting in and out of tight spots, and X-Wing battles galore, making it probably the most exciting and action packed NJO book since Michael Stackpole's Dark Tide books.  I find it hard to see this book disappointing.	2002-07-02
US	52885056	R1AVBVX7XVPQ1Z	0743418220	814935595	Blue Gold: A Novel from the NUMA Files	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Another High Adventure From Cussler	Geez, a lot of people seem to be put off by Kurt and pals, thinking they're merely cheap knockoffs of Dirk Pitt and his pals.   I say, let go of that mindset and enjoy the ride!  <br />Blue Gold starts off fast and barely slows down until the final chapter.  Danger, chases, and narrow escapes abound here and it's fun the whole way through.  While Kurt and Joe are off investigating the death of an entire pod of whales, Paul and Gamay Trout find themselves in the midst of another mystery in the wilds of Venezuelan Rain Forest.  The plots weave together and an insidious plan to take over the world's supply of water is eventually uncovered.<br />This, of course, leads to Cussler's trademark derring do from his heroes and some nicely unique villians that are as sadistic as they are smart.  When all of these elements are combined, what you get is a satisfying adventure thriller that turns the pages until you are finished and a thrist for even more Cussler tales!	2002-07-02
US	52885056	R287SS308HF4DD	0345375580	758345402	The Elf Queen of Shannara (Heritage of Shannara, Book 3)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Shannara Continues to Shine	As I read through the second book (Druid of Shannara) and this, the third book in the Heritage of Shannara storyline, I must admit that I was kind of disappointed that it seemed to be missing the grand scale of the original books.  It wasn't long after these thoughts entered my mind that I realized I was being narrow minded.  These Heritage books are FOUR books long, detaling ONE storyline!  I was missing the big picture that when these four books are put together, THERE is the grand scale.<br />That out of the way, I thoroughly enjoyed the Elf Queen.  Sometimes, I had to force myself to read through some of the endless journeying through wildlands, but it was worth it.   If for no other reason, than the character of Wren.  She goes through an entire journey of self discovery that is usually more heartbreaking than triumphant.   You're there for every revelation and you can almost feel Wren's mixed emotions.  She is definitely NOT a cardboard character and Brooks has you caring for her well being throughout the entire book.<br />Speaking of which, Brooks also makes clear that EVERY character is in danger.  The journey is perilous and the creatures frightening.  <BR>Brooks has created an entirely uncomfortable sounding world of Morrowindel (I'm pretty sure I botched that spelling), which I'm sure accounts for a lot of my afformentioned sluggishness in reading some of these scenes.<br />Our main man Terry also has a gift of making the secondary characters shine, so when even a minor character may lose his life, it is disturbing.  Especially when you see how it effects the others in the party.  There's some dramatic stuff here, to be sure.  So far, I would say it's Mr. Brooks' darkest book yet.<br />Amongst Wren's journey are a couple of chapters dedicated to the other characters in the Heritage saga that will make you want to pick up Book 4 as soon as you are through devouring this one.	2002-07-02
US	52885056	R2Z1OMMOWB7T6	0451205421	835415534	The Door to December	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Detective yarn with a supernatural twist.	I saw it pointed out that astute readers will pick up on what's really happening early on.  This is true.  But that doesn't make the book any less interesting to read.  Koontz gives these characters life and you really start to care for them.  The first chapters really hook you in, starting with hardly any preamble.  We're wisked away into the story right out and it's hard to put down afterwards.  I guess the main plot of this story is Laura and the little girl being reunited and trying to find out what's wrong.  This is all interesting and everything, it provides the chills and the emotional punch the story needs.  However, it's the detective story that's the real meat of the story.  <br />When our characters branch off, the detective, Dan Haldane goes into Sam Spade territory.  He races against time to get to the bottom of this plot and we're with him every step of the way.  He keeps his wits about him and is witty.  The character is a joy to read, especially when he spars with his boss.  The rain sets up a terrific detective yarn atmosphere and this is where most of the interesting reading is.<br />But, like I said, it's the stuff with the little girl that provides the scares and some interesting insights.  This part of the story, though, mostly deals with the love of a mother for a daughter that is literally lost in every way.  The heart of the story, when you get right down to it.  <br />Koontz weaves a masterful tale that meshes in all the right ways.  The switching from Dan to Laura's story, the themes that play throughout the entire book and the sense of and impending.... something.  Mr. Koontz has essentially hit all the right notes to write one of the more entertaining books I've read in a while.  Once you start this baby, you won't want to stop.	2002-06-26
US	52885056	RVX46FXGBCJ79	074343627X	241269653	Dreamcatcher	Books	5	2	2	N	N	King takes on some aliens	When Stephen King tackles Alien Invasion, you can be sure not to expect E.T., Close Encounters or Independence Day (even though all are referenced by characters), expect.... bowel movements.  Sure, it sounds ridiculous just saying it, but in the context of the story and in the hands of King, it's quite terrifying.<br />But aside from that, the story is about a special bond between four friends, strengthened by a fifth.  We start out with our heros as adults, troubled in their own ways, joining together for their annual hunting trip.  This is when weird things begin. Through all of this, we see flashbacks of their childhood that make you care more for our crew.  You see their general &quot;goodness&quot; in these scenes.  And you're scared about what may happen to them now.<br />Enter the army, led by Abraham Kurtz.  We'll just say he's not all there and he's a delight to read.  As is his right hand man, Owen Underhill, who may or may not be on his boss's good side.<br />Characters and storylines meet, revelations are uncovered and an alien takes over someone's body.  This leads to some good cat and mouse moments in the person's mind.  And through it all, King entertains us while keeping a sense of impending doom over the story as the pages fly by.<br />So, yeah, I guess you could say I got a kick out of Dreamcatcher and I heartily recommend it.	2002-03-15
US	52885056	R2Q1UIMDMV7MUK	0385503822	782272714	The Summons	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Well, *I* like it, anyway.	It seems as though most folks seem to think as far as Grisham legal thrillers go, this is perhaps the slowest and weakest.  This may be so.  But it's still a good read.  Maybe it's just me. I just couldn't resist the chance to go back to Clanton and visit old friends like Harry Rex again.<br />I, for one, thought the book brought up some interesting questions and dealt with them in a satisfying manner.  What would you do if you came across all that cash? Would you throw caution to the wind and just spend it?  Would you hide it and try to figure out it's origins?  Who would you tell?  Who would you definately not tell and why? Having that much money and not knowing what to do with it can start to eat at a guy.  As it does Ray.<br />I enjoyed watching Ray deal with all this as he also had to deal with his father's death and unresolved, confused feelings for him as well his addict/drunk brother who wants to stay clean, but just can't keep sober.  If you go in expecting the usual life or death type thriller like The Firm or The Client, you may be disappointed.  This is more about a guy as he tries not to unravel due to the incredible situation he finds himself in.  All told in Mr. Grisham's usual joy to read prose, this is actually a better book than some give it credit for.	2002-03-14
US	52885056	R2ZNZZR3EJX9GO	034542848X	87344379	Star By Star (Star Wars: New Jedi Order)	Books	5	5	7	N	N	Epic Chapter of the NJO	This, the center point of the NJO, is the most massive book yet.  You read and read and by the time you would be through with a normal NJO book, you're only halfway through this one.  And I LOVE that about it!  Maybe they (The People In Control) will now see that we don't need pansy wansy titles and we can actually sit through a long, well written book.  <br />Enough about that, this was a dark book.  Heavy stuff goes down here and it's sure to put some people off, in fact, it already seems to have done so.  But you can't blame the author for that, those kind of decisions are made by the higher ups.  However, as dark as the book was, it was good to see the good guys kicking some butt.  The secret Jedi mission is the darkest of them all, as it deals with the new generation's hunt for the voxyn, a creature that hunts and kills Jedi.  During this section, you get scenes of woe, scenes of true heroism, and yes, scenes of tragedy and the characters doing what must be done in the aftermath.  When you come right down to it, you see these Young Jedi Knights going through the trial of their lifetimes and at times it can be heartbreaking.<br />As far as the other parts of the story, I have heard people griping at the fact that Luke is in an X-Wing while Corran is down on the ground or in a command ship directing the battle.  They say that Corran Horn is the great X-Wing pilot, he should be up there, Luke should be directing.  I say to them that Corran did NOT blow up the Death Star.  Much was made in the movies about Luke being a great pilot, how his father was a great pilot before him, and I daresay that it is Luke we want to see kicking butt in an X-Wing!  Not to say Corran shouldn't be in one, but don't begrudge Luke.  The scenes with Luke and Mara leading Kyp's Dozen and the Wild Knightz are great, and made me feel like I was watching the Jedi Master in true action again.<br />Anyways, all that aside, this was a well written book with a lot of stuff going on.  Troy Denning did an excellent job.  He has you fearing for each and every character throughout the book very effectively.  And he made me actually think Borsk F'leya wasn't such a bad guy after all when the chips are down. And the ending.  Oh, that ending.  Just a couple of more months.  The only thing I gotta say is, as good as these reads have been, it better lighten up soon, as I really don't like being depressed by Star Wars.  Sure, there is precedent in the movies, but it was still Star Wars.  Other than that, pure gold.	2002-01-05
US	52885056	R2GVGKKI1A5B9I	0441172717	88529599	Dune	Books	5	1	1	N	N	A Fully Realized World	Dune.  The original.  Much has been said about it, most good and deservedly so.  Some have called it the best Science Fiction book of all time.  I'm inclined to agree.  Herbert has actually created a world with different cultures and religions and ways of life.  The characters are well drawn, if a little cold.  But that's the way of the world in which they live.  In which Houses come before love and people seldom matter, except to a few.  However, as usual, the good guys are easily identified, as are the bad.  <br />The world of Dune has a life of it's on, one that seems seperate from the rest of the known universe.  The Fremen are one of the most remarkable culture of people ever put to page and one of the most fascinating.  You are drawn into Paul's story and his destiny, of which these desert dwellers are a part.  The other characters are great as well.  Just can't get enough of Duncan Idaho and Gurney Halleck.  And Duke Leto is about a noble a character as you can get. <br />I was introduced to Dune by the mini series and the prequel novels by Kevin J. Anderson and Brian Herbert, all of which were vastly entertaining, but this book is easily levels above those works.<br />I really don't have a lot to add to what has already been said, but to encourage you to believe the legend.  Dune is THAT good.	2002-01-05
US	52885056	RUJ0X612FRG0F	0553110845	257407410	House Corrino (Dune: House Trilogy, Book 3)	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Entertaining Conclusion	Dune: House Corrino is a satisfying ending to the Dune prequel series.  My main complaint would be that there is so much plot going on that you don't really get a chance to go deep into the characters thoughts.  But the plot is interesting and fast paced.  The things I looked forward to most about this book was how Jessica's birth of a son instead of a daughter would be seen by the Bene Gesserit and the Battle for Ix, as Prince Rhombur is a favorite character of mine.  It was great watching him mature and do what needed to be doing.<br />Shaddam could have been done a little better.  He seemed to want nothing more than blow planets up and to kill a bunch of people.  Still, his scene with Duke Leto was pretty good.  As was the showdown between Duncan and Count Fenring.  Two great fighters going after each other with the tension thick.<br />All in all, the authors did a great job of bringing the story to a conclusion while leaving the plot holes and mysteries open that will lead to the original Dune.	2002-01-05
US	52885056	R2X1TQAMGP4FS6	0345446100	108368651	2: Edge of Victory II: Rebirth (Star Wars: The New Jedi Order, No. 8)	Books	5	4	5	N	N	A great addition to the NJO	I'm always a bit leery about reading a Star Wars book by a new SW author.  I know it's not fair to the new author, but I like knowing I'm gonna get a competent story. That being said, Greg Keyes breathes some new excitement into the series.  After giving us a nice little adventure in Conquest, he blows us away with Rebirth.  I've yet to start boring of this story line.  <br />Let's get the bad out of the way first.  Most of us grew up wanting to be Luke Skywalker.  I want to see Luke be Luke; the Luke I grew up admiring.  It hasn't really been happening here lately.  I'll let this book slide, for if I had a wife and she were really sick AND pregnant, I know where'd I'd be, and that's where Luke is.  In the earlier chapters, it looks like Luke is thinking on the lines that will make him back into the character I love.  Hopefully.  I just don't think Luke's been quite nailed down right, yet.<br />Anyways, that out of the way, the rest of the book rocked.  Foremost, it was good seeing Han, Leia, Jacen and Threepio kickin' it &quot;Empire Strikes Back&quot; style.  All those fans getting sick of Jacen spouting off and being weak or whatever will love the scene where Han gets in his face and tells him what Han Solo thinks about all that.  Then, like Han, you'll probably feel a little guilty for enjoying it after.  But other than a couple of nice moments of family trying to get along and understand each other, the banter is tops.  It was also nice to see Karrde and the setting of Tatooine again.<br />Meanwhile we have Anakin and Tahiri getting into trouble yet again, but this time they have the good fortune of bringing Corran Horn into it with them.  Though he probably wouldn't agree on that point.   Anyways, they find themselves in a thick situation that looks to be VERY difficult to get out of.  There's some good stuff here.  Once again, good to see Corran back in action after he kicked some butt in &quot;Ruin&quot;.<br />In yet another storyline we find Kyp Durron getting Jaina's help in a little matter that calls for the help of the legendary Rouge Squadran.  Needless to say, if you like your space battles, here's where you'll find it.  Extra props for seeing Wedge Antilles back in the cockpit of a X-Wing where he belongs. Also a nice unexpected aftermath to the battle that I didn't see coming.<br />All in all, it had a nice &quot;Star Wars&quot; movie feel to it that I don't always find in the books, and I thank Greg Keyes for that. Way fun to read and the suspence is there, especially with Mara's disease flaring up bigger and badder than ever.  Good multi story lines that have that annoying habit of switching between each other when they get really interesting.  But then, a couple of the movies do that, too.<br />And for you guys thinking Anakin Solo has the best potential to be the greatest of the Jedi, we are introduced to someone in the last couple of chapters that could change your prespective :)  It changed mine.	2001-09-07
US	52885056	R2IEET66EZENQ9	0345435257	335533924	Angel Fire East (The Word and the Void Trilogy, Book 3)	Books	4	4	5	N	N	I'm Sad to See This Series End	Angle Fire East, the big finale to the John Ross-Nest Freemark trilogy, offers more of a fantasy element than the previous two books.  This one deals more with the magic of the world and how it effects our characters.  It also offers us the gypsy morph, a truly wonderful creature concocted of wild magics thrown together that last only a short while.  John Ross has captured this and it's up to him to figure out it's secret for the Word, while avoiding servants of the Void who want it for their master.  His single clue leads him to, you guessed it, Hopewell, home of Nest Freemark.<br />This book feels more like the first in the series in that, in addition to Nest and John Ross, there's a strong supporting cast that get their time in the sun.  We see Bennet Scott, all grown up with a kid of her own.  Unfortunately, she's turned into a junkie and decides the best way to get out of that life is to return home to her surrogate big sister, Nest.  Josie, the lady who has John Ross' heart makes a return, as does Robert Heppler.  <br />Findo Gask makes the best villian in this series yet.  I found him to be scarier than any of the other demons in all three books.  There was just something about him.  The fact that he is as evil as they get makes it all the more satisfying when, in a couple of different scenes, Nest gets all up in his face and tells him off.  Go girl!  <br />I only wish that the ending didn't end so quick.  It's kind of a bittersweet ending and I wish it was a bit more fleshed out.  Basically you had the final confrontation and a couple of pages after and that's it.  I could have gone for a final confrontation then a whole chapter after.  The best part about the ending is that it seems this story can go on, if not the Ross-Nest saga, then there is a place where it can go.  Maybe Brooks will treat us to more Word-Void books after he finishes up his latest batch of Shannara books.  I, for one, would not complain.<br />P.S.  Two Bears continues to rock!	2001-04-07
US	52885056	R3II8CU4FY8PUV	0345424646	904125746	A Knight of the Word (The Word and the Void Trilogy, Book 2)	Books	5	4	5	N	N	A Winning Sequel	A Knight of the Word takes place 5 years after the events of Running with the Demon and one of the things I liked about it was how the characters have moved on.  Nest has gone off to college and has kinda lost touch with her old life, like a lot of folks do in real life.  Her one true friend remains Pick, the six inch sylvan twig man that keeps balance to the magic in the park.  I like how Brooks shows her dealing with these feelings, it's very natural.  <br />The roles here are flip flopped from &quot;Demon&quot;, in that this time it's up to Nest to go to and help out John Ross, who's lost his faith.  The main thing I liked about this book was how sympathetic Ross was.  You just start to feel bad for the guy, the things he's gone through and had to endure.  More than one man should ever have to.  This makes his fall from faith all the more believable and real, in fact, considering the event that triggers it, I'm forced to admit that I probably would have too were I him.<br />Throughout the book, Ross deals through this problem.  He can't just give up, it just doesn't work that way.  It's just amazing watching him ignore the totally obvious signs and warnings that he can't give it up because he's blinded by his new life and how good he feels and how right it feels to him.  It's amazing, because I've seen people do the same thing in my life, so this book kinda hit me personally there.<br />The mystery of who the demon is is kind of easy to figure out, and not too much of a shock when it reveals itself, but that's of little consequence, what is of the most consequence is how it effects the characters in the book.  You knowing makes it that much more painful knowing how it'll probably effect Ross.  <br />And let's not forget poor Nest, how does she go about helping this man who she has mixed feelings about.  But she does, and her relationship with Ross develops further (not in THAT way, you sickos! :).  A complicated relationship it is, but a real one that will standthe test of time.  <br />Of course I would be remiss to go through the review and not mention Two Bears!  This guy is just plain cool, I could probably read a whole novel on Two Bears, but I'm afraid that would undo what is so cool about him.<br />And let's not forget Terry Brooks, who has created two characters in John Ross and Nest Freemark that I will probably remember for a long, long time.  Plus, he weaves an excellent story around them that deals with important issues such as friendship, strong characters, and the whole homeless situation, which you can see he has some real concern about (and rightly so!)  So, in conclusion, Terry Brooks continues to do no wrong in my book.	2001-04-07
US	52885056	R34V69ND029GY	0345422589	34717978	Running With the Demon (The Word and the Void Trilogy, Book 1)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Terry Brooks does it again.	This is my first non Shannara Brooks book (not counting Star Wars: The Phantom Menace), so I really didn't know what to expect.  Kind of a slow start where we are introduced to the various characters that'll come into play during the story, the first and foremost being John Ross and Nest Freemark.  This may be kinda slow, but it's still some good stuff. John Ross is tortured by his dreams.  Being a Knight of the Word, he sees the future in his dreams, and it's not a good one.  You can imagine what this would do to one's sleeping habits.  John Ross' existence is not an easy one, which we find out.<br />Nest Freemark grounds this story in reality.  The relationship with her friends, her hometown.  Brooks' descriptions of the town, the heat, the whole atmosphere of the town reminds me of when I was growing up, and that wasn't TOO awful long ago, so this town and it's inhabitants are real to me.  Their problems, fears and friendships are real.  Brooks does a great job establishing this and explaining how simple events in this one simple little town can bring forth a horrible future filled with Demons and bondage if our hero's don't prevail.<br />As grounded as she is, Nest seems a normal kid, except for the fact that she hangs out with a 6 inch twig man named Pick, can see the feeders that feed off bad feelings and emotions, and can do a bit of magic.  When our two hero's meet is when the fun begins.  Lives are changed, dark family secrets long buried are brought to the forefront and no matter what the outcome, nothing will ever be the same for Nest Freemark.  <br />Brooks does a great job keeping all his plotlines entwined, offering us glimpses of each one until they all come to a head.  This is a book about magic and it's consequences, a story of how our civilization has a lot of shaping up to do, or no telling what will happen to us, but mainly it's the story about a family and the secrets that they share or refuse to share and the effects of it.  <br />My main complaint would be that I wish that there was more for John Ross to do.  There was a lot going on there with him, but it doesn't feel fully realized.  Which I'm sure is the author's intent, and if so, he's done a really good job, as I can't wait to see where he takes this character in &quot;A Knight of the Word.&quot;	2001-03-24
US	52885056	R3QTRGIR3YCXQD	0345428579	706445147	Balance Point (Star Wars: The New Jedi Order, Book 6)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	A breath of fresh air	Throughout the last few books of the New Jedi Order, it's been rush, rush, defend our lives, senate meetings, debates, fight for our lives, rush and run.  This book kind of slows it down a bit and we get to concentrate on the characters.  To me, they're more realistic in this movie, they feel like real people.  They care for each other, get annoyed at each other and ultimatly try to protect each other.  This book kinda ties some loose ends together that have been floating around for the last few entries.  There are those who are starting to get annoyed with Jacen and his stubborness.  I think your opinion of the kid may change after this book.  He's gone through a lot and he's cautious, but we can actually kinda understand him here.  He actually works through the problem in this book and finally (hopefully) comes to a decision.  It was just great to see the Solo's as a family for once, all together.  They act like a real family.<br />Another thing is, of course, Leia and Han finally try to work through their problems.  This little plot was starting to wear thin as it just started to get repetitive.  Now they are going forwars with it.  <br />As for Jania, I feel she's starting to grow as a character, and she realistically acts as a sister or daughter would.  She's got problems, she loves her mother and brother, yet at the same time she's frustrated by them.  I like how she was portrayed.  Unfortunately, Anakin didn't get as much focus as the twins or their parents, however, he continues to show great promise to become even greater than Luke himself.  <br />Speaking of the great one, I'd really love to see a book focus on Luke for once.  To me, the movies were about the Skywalkers, their dreams, triumphs, faliures and redemptions.  Luke has so much responsibility going on that it's hard for him to come off as a normal guy (well, his is Luke Skywalker), but I would love to see a story focusing on Luke.  <br />The Vong are still as repulsive as ever, and I can't help but to want to see how they would fare if they attacked the galaxy while Obi-Wan Kenobi and his pals were still in their prime.  But even though this book kinda slows it down, don't feel safe for these people.  This may be a bright spot in the dark, but our heroes are in more trouble than they've been in since Vader decided to stop playing with kid's gloves and proceeded to kick their collective butts from one side of the galaxy to the other in &quot;The Empire Strikes Back.&quot;  ]<br />Even though it's focus is on the characters here, the book still offers good action and is paced really well.  There's still a fair share of lightsaber fights and climatic space battles, so any action fan should be satisfied.	2001-03-14
US	52885056	R2KJ4ZF3Y6D0H9	0553110721	698766211	Dune: House Harkonnen	Books	5	1	5	N	N	Nice Continuation	As I said in my review in House Atreides, I'm new to Dune, so keep that in mind.  I can't compare it to the original, having never read it (though, I plan to now).  <br />As the first book set up all these events, this book continues on, covering a greater span of time.  This one is definately darker in tone than Atreides, which makes sense as this book is called House Harkonnen.  And boy, are those Harkonnens EVIL.  If there's on thing this book pounds in your head, it's that.  Many unspeakable acts are done in this story by those vile beings.  This book has made me actually hate these characters.  You'll just start to feel sorry for some of those that they torment time after time after time.  <br />Meanwhile, things aren't exactly running smoothly for our good pal, Duke Leto.  His life isn't going great right now, and he has to work his way through that.  It's not comfortable to watch a character you really like go through things that he goes through, but then again, that's life.  And that's a strength of this book, I think.<br />As all of these goes on, we're also treated to more of the Emperor, who we find his reign isn't exactly going as smoothly as he had hoped.  Duncan Idaho goes through some tough training to be a Swordmaster and meets some friends and enemies there.  We also get to meet a great character named Gurney Halleck, who I understand comes to play a big part in the original Dune.  Let's not forget Pardot and Liet Kynes.  There's some great stuff going on in the Fremen world, it's always interesting to see these desert dwellers and their ways.  The differences between father and son come into play here and ultimatly lead to something big.<br />My main complaints here is that it can get kinda depressing at times and when Duncan and Gurney make it to the services of the Duke, then they kinda don't really do much.  Perhaps in House Corrino.  Also, it just seems there was a TON going on here, but I think Brian Herbert and Kevin J. Anderson pull it off quite well.  A great followup to Atreides and quite fun to read.  Bring on House Corrino!	2001-03-10
US	52885056	R1JVEP3BUHDC6N	0553580272	737842842	House Atreides (Dune: House Trilogy, Book 1)	Books	5	4	7	N	N	My intro to Dune	I've never read Dune, or seen the original movie.  I have, however seen the new mini series on Sci-Fi, and that led me to finally read this book that had been sitting around my house forever.  So, I'm really approaching this book from a &quot;non&quot; Dune fan perspective, with no knowledge of what happens next really.  I can't really remember every character and event in the mini series, so the suspence is still there.  I also realize how big the Dune series is, it's a book legend, and I realize the enormous task these two arthors have taken on.  They were up to it.<br />Okay, that being said, I found this to be a top notch book. It started out a bit slow for me, but all that character introduction and building is really important for what happens next.  I loved the characters, Leto, Rhombur, Fenrig, the Fremen and Duke Paulus especially.  Unfortunately, hardly any of the female characters are doing much anything, but there are a couple of exceptions.  We are introduced to all of these characters that obviously come in to play a big part in Frank Herbert's original books, and it's fun.  You'll see Leto take certain actions that make his legend grow, you'll see many plots take course, all interesting.  &quot;Wheels within wheels.&quot;<br />At 600 pages, the books flies, juggling one set of characters after another.  You're sure not to get bored, because each chapter turns to another storyline and so on.  This is not simply a &quot;good versus evil&quot; book.  These people are real people.  Sure, the &quot;bad&quot; folks are really evil and the &quot;good&quot; folks have good hearts, but they all have to make decisions, and they all aren't always the best ones.  Sometimes they are.  There are plenty of grey characters that are who they are.  I think Brian Herbert and Kevin J. Anderson did a marvelous job portraying their characters and getting us to feel certain ways about them, and to me that's always the most important thing about a story.<br />The main bad point in the book is something that I've actually started doing on occasion.  Yep, every once in a while I catch myself uttering the phrase, &quot;Vermillion hells!&quot;, that curse of Rhombur's that started to get on my nerves after a while.  Oh, well, small complaint.<br />I guess the biggest compliment I can give this book is that it's made me want to become a Dune fan.  It's made me want to continue on with House Harkonnen (which I have) and House Corrino (it needs to hurry and come out) all the way through Frank Herbet's legendary original saga.  For that alone, Brian Herbert and Kevin J. Anderson deserve major props.	2001-03-08
US	52885056	R1UTEPEY1U9VHL	0671867296	173123212	Imzadi (Star Trek: The Next Generation)	Books	5	0	1	N	N	Easily one of the best Trek books I've read	That's not saying I've read a whole heck of a lot, but it's hard to imagine them getting much better than this.  My mom bought this book and at first I didn't really care to read it.  I was more interested in stories dealing with the whole Enterprise crew, led by the ever vigilaint Jean-Luc Picard, so I was put off of the book because it's main focus was on Riker and Troi.  I finally picked up here recently and gave it a whirl.  Didn't want to put it down.  Peter David does an excellent job here, he holds my attention throughout the book with his entertaining characterizations of Riker and Troi, plus a few other key characters.  I should have known not to doubt David, as I enjoyed Q-Squared quite a bit.  <br />There is time jumping involved and I'm sure a lot of folks will like the romantic part of the story that leads Riker to do what he does.  The last bit of the book is a real page turner, full of danger and suspense.  Oh yes, I likey a lot!<br />Not much to say except that if you want to see a wonderful character driven story exploring the background of the Riker/Troi relationship, then pick up this baby immediatly!	2001-02-28
US	52885056	R2PTT6NSFCKIRX	0345435397	595671727	Darth Maul: Shadow Hunter (Star Wars)	Books	5	16	17	N	N	Fast and fun read!	I picked up this book not quite knowing what to expect.  Could this just be a story slopped together to cash in on one of the most popular villians in recent memory?  A possibility. To me, Maul seemed in the Phantom Menace to be Darth Sidious' personal killing machine, and not a lot more.  He didn't have the great characterization or presence of, say, Vader.  But dang was he cool when he went about being that killing machine, and that fact, along with an uncontrollable urge to pick up every Star Wars novel that comes along, made me pick it up.<br />Fortunatly, this book is chock full of characters and the adventures they go through made me forget that most of the action takes place on Coruscant.  Usually SW books hop from planet to planet.  We get to know Lorn Pavan, a character I grew to really like, even though his dislike of the Jedi was annoying at first.  But, like it has been pointed out, he had his reasons, and he grew a bit by the end of the story.  This book also introduces us to the coolest droid since R2 and 3PO, the sarcastic, quick witted I-Five.  His scenes with Lorn are great, up there in SW lore with duos such as R2/3PO, Han/Chewie and Luke/Mara. <br />Also, we find ourselves on a journey to Jedi Knighthood with Padawan Darsha Assant, who has her troubles, moments of doubts, and times when she really shines as a Jedi.  As her path leads her to Lorn and co, the story really gets interesting, for this is where our friendly neighborhood Dark Lord of the Sith comes in.  I've heard him compared to a Star Wars Terminator in this book, and that description ain't that far off.  Like the movie, our anti-hero doesn't have a lot to say, but his actions always speaks louder than what he would say.  He is truly a figure to be feared here, and anytime a character I began to care for in the story crossed his path, I feared for them.<br />Some would say that knowing the events of The Phantom Menace takes away any suspense from this book, but I say nay.  There's plenty of suspense here, you don't know exactly what's going to happen to these characters; what twists and turns may come into play, so don't let that deter you.<br />The pages fly fast and the pacing is perfect.  Never a dull moment, and I finished the book faster than anything in recent memory, but I give this book 5 stars for being a fast, vastly entertaining read with some laughs and tears.  If that seems your cup of tea, it probably won't disappoint.	2001-02-27
US	52885056	R3JUI9HGRY7UKY	0671014471	831257082	Strange New Worlds I (Star Trek)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Great stuff from the fans!	I'm probably not what you would call a hard core Trekkie, which is to say that I enjoy Trek, I read some of the books and I've seen the movies, but I'm not the leading expert on the intricate details of the series' and such. I guess what I'm getting at here is that I find Trek highly entertaining, just in a casual fan way.  <br />That out of the way, I enjoyed the heck out of these fan stories.  I'm more of a fan of the first two Trek series' and didn't really get into Deep Space Nine, and I've maybe seen one episode of Voyager, but I found the stories for all four series' to be highly entertaining.  The Voyager stories made me actually want to watch the show.  Not just entertaining are these stories, but they are creative and well written.  I hope that each of these writers continues on writing, as I found each and every story presented here to be very good and interesting. One would like to see these storylines in some of the shows.<br />I really can't say enough good things about this book, so I'll just stop it here saying that this was a really good idea.  To each and every author published in this book: Kudos!  Great job all around and I hope to see your names again. And all you fans out there who're thinking about it, bring on some more!  I'm definately checking out the later installments.	2001-02-13
US	52885056	R2ZSQKQEBWH04P	0679444815	786105285	Timeline	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Escape from the real world for a while	It seems to me that Michael Crichton writes two different kinds of books.  On one hand, you have books like Rising Sun, Disclosure, and Airframe.  On the other, you have the Jurassic books, Sphere, and Congo.  I think he does a great job on both kinds, but I always have more fun reading the more adventure orientated ones and that's where Timeline fits in.  Expect the usual Crichton scientific explanations here, the cliche characters (Marek was the best of the lot), and all the fun.<br />I didn't enjoy it as much as Jurassic Park of Sphere, but that sure enough doesn't make it bad.  MC writes a classic adventure story of a group of college type archeologists lost in France in the fuedal past looking for their professor then a way home.  On the way we have sword fights, jousts, damsels that aren't exactly as they seem and my personal favorite, an insane hermit like Knight, looking to cut off one of our heroine's head.<br />If you love a good adventurous romp and nothing more, then you should find something you enjoy here.	2000-09-20
US	52885056	R2VNDH4MMDHN8E	0345428609	902573050	Agents of Chaos I: Hero's Trial (Star Wars: The New Jedi Order, Book 4)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	The Return of Solo	Well, the New Jedi Order keeps on truckin' and so far it doesn't seem to  be running out of steam.  While not as good as the Dark Tide series, I'm  still having the most fun reading Star Wars since Heir To the Empire came  out!  This new installment features Han like we all love him, gambler,  scoundrel, and master pilot.  After all the pathos Han's been going through  since Vector Prime, I was pleasantly surprised to find this book brimming  with humor, most of it from the interaction between our smuggler and his  new Ryn buddy, Droma.<br />Also interesting is the reappearance of Vergere,  the Jedi that Obi-Wan and Anakin (Skywalker, not Solo :) were serching for  in Rouge Planet.  I hope more comes out of this storyline in the future.  I  mean, wouldn't it be great if Vergere could hook up with Luke and tell him  about the Jedi of old and how his father was as a kid?  Great  possibilities!<br />James Luceno does a bang up job continuing the series and  I, for one, can't wait to see what he puts Han, Droma and the gang though  in the next installment.	2000-09-07
US	52885056	R3UVUNBTCFKRCJ	0316693286	373226516	Pop Goes the Weasel (Alex Cross)	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Enjoyable Alex Cross  romp	Pop Goes the Weasel is, like all Alex Cross books, a page turning nail  biter.  It has all the elements we've come to expect from the Cross books,  the family, romance, Sampson, and of course, a killer who's very cunning  and hard to catch.  Even after you catch him.  The Weasel is a very sick  criminal to read about, and the sad thing is, there are people out there  like him.  The plot is a take on Internet role playing games, the hitch is,  this game is about killing and it is acted out in Washington D.C., among  other places.  This is where Alex Cross comes in.  Now we know Alex is  smart and a good all around human being, and the fun with these books is  the chase.  Alex tracks down serial killer.  Serial killer attempts to  outsmart him, ect, ect.  But it works.   Now, while I think this book may  be one of the weaker Cross books, it is still fun and absorbing.  So, if  you love Cross, it's probably safe to say you'll enjoy this book.  If you  have no idea who Cross is, take a chance on the guy.  And may I just leave  a small message for James Patterson: Can't you write faster :)	2000-08-20
US	52885056	R3URZHA97YJTTE	0345396537	855284075	First King of Shannara	Books	5	4	6	N	Y	Great adventure!	One thing I enjoy about Terry Brooks is that I can easily escape into his  world.  You open up a Shannara book and BOOM! You're there.  In my opinion,  The Sword of Shannara had a strong backstory, vividly told in that book.   This is that full story, even stronger here, because you get to know the  characters.  Bremen, Kinson, Tay, Mareth and Jerle are all strong  characters that you get to care about.  Even the smith who forged the Sword  was a decent character.<br />You get what you expect here from Brooks novels,  well thought out and told battle scenes that are very descriptive and keep  your attention.  The characters are such that if one gets hurt, it's almost  like seeing a friend get hurt. I liked that Jerle Shannara has that inner  struggle going on, wondering if fate was right to choose him.  Tay was such  a likeable character, that he almost singlehandedly lightened up some of  the book for me, which mostly is kind of a dark book.<br />The bad guys where  rightly evil and creepy.  In my opinion, there is no scarier thing to think  about than coming face to face with a dreaded Skull Bearer.   Shudder!<br />Anyways, if you enjoy Brooks, you're sure to enjoy this.  If you  enjoy fantasy and adventure, this is right up your alley.	2000-08-20
US	52885056	R1EV4PG43DF7VA	0451409477	380456488	Gladiator	Books	3	37	38	N	N	Great story that doesn't add too much to the movie	Anyone who's seen the movie knows that Gladiator has a strong story and script behind it.  But, when it comes to novelizations I like to see a little extra background, perhaps more character development than you can  have in the film.  And that's where this book is a bit of a let down.  This  is a straight retelling of the screenplay with a couple of scenes that  didn't make the movie, which where kind of nice to see.  I remember when  Commodus finds that Maximus is still alive and he was lied to when he  thought he was dead, his sister tells him that the legion should know that  lies should not be tolerated.  In the movie, nothing really comes of that,  but in the book it then later goes to a good scene where Commodus oversees  the execution of those who told him Maximus was dead.  It's just little  touches like that.  <br />When I read a book, I want to feel like I'm  experiencing something a little different than the movie.  I felt that way  when reading Terry Brooks novelization of The Phantom Menace or even  Raymond Benson's novelization of Tomorrow Never Dies. I really didn't get  that feeling with this one.  <br />So, in short, if you go into the book  expecting the movie to be expanded on, prepare to be disappointed.    However, if you really enjoyed the movie's great story as is and are  expecting nothing else, this is a fast, fun read.	2000-07-20
US	52885056	R2JWDPO6ZYU709	0440234743	934400771	The Testament	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Great characters make up for the lack of &quot;legal thrills&quot;	I guess, like everyone, I picked up this book expecting a typical John Grisham super thriller.  I was pleasantly suprised to find out I was wrong.  This is a book about a man and the life changing experiences he has with  the people he meets while he's on his little legal mission.  This is also a  book that speaks a lot about Faith in a very real manner and I applaud  Grisham for including it.  It seems to pull it off without being  &quot;preachy&quot;.<br />The legal stuff with the family in the book is fun  reading, Grisham certainly knows how to keep the reader's intrest when it  comes to matters of the law.  That's why he's paid the big bucks. But it is  Nate O'Reilly and his journey that gives the book it's life. This is a guy  who's about had it when he meets this extroidinary missionary and how it  makes him question every thing he's ever known.  Perhaps there is something  better out there for him.<br />I really don't know what else to say.  There's  really no edge of your seat Grisham stuff here, just great characters.   It's a book that when I finished reading, I feel there is still hope for  people.  They just have to choose to change, choose their faith in God, and  that's what this book is all about.	2000-07-20
US	52885056	R1VDNG96CUX4DL	0671041460	232966106	Redemption (Angel)	Books	4	9	9	N	N	A quick, easy and fun read.	As a big fan of the Buffy show, and it's new spinoff Angel, I'm always leery of picking up books on the shows.  It seems as though some books based on tv shows lose something in the transalations (no, I'm not just  talking about the visuals :), but this one gets it right.<br />I liked all  elements of this novel.  The characterizations of Angel, Cordy and Doyle  were spot on and the original characters were interesting.  I really did  like the Blood Cadre.<br />I liked how Angel's inner struggle was shown.  He  has to constantly fight his urges and live with his guilt. <br />The  flashbacks were handled well, I think.  I usually don't like flashbacks,  but they worked here.  They were exciting and fun.  A vampire pirate, now  that's something different!<br />All in all, an exciting story that moved  along at a good pace and keep the feel of the series.  Some suprises here  and there make for a very enjoyable book indeed.  Good job, Mel!	2000-06-29
US	52885056	R6DGNH8BFW0Y5	0345428560	820833256	Dark Tide II: Ruin (Star Wars: The New Jedi Order, Book 3)	Books	5	0	1	N	N	Great follow up to Onslaught!	Mike Stackpole delivers his second straight, action packed, thrill filled Star Wars New Jedi Order book, and it rocks.  <br />If there's one thing I hate about some books, is to see the same characters continuing to do the  same things over and over.  In DT 2, we see some of the Jedi, like Ganner,  maturing after his encounters.  He learns from his mistakes and becomes a  better Jedi for it.  It's always nice to see character developement.<br />It  seems to me the main focus of this book was Corran Horn, which was fine  with me.  He's really come a long way and it shows.  Once again, we see the  character developement as Corran and Ganner grow from almost advesaries to  friends.  He seems to be taking on an almost mentor like relationship to  Jacen as well.  If they ever revive the old &quot;Jedi Master/Padawan&quot;  relationships, I can easily see Corran and Jacen in that role.<br />Anyways,  the book is filled with many action scenes sure to keep the pages turning,  a few Jedi/Vong fights and a climatic duel, so the action fan should be  well pleased with this novel.<br />The book shows, undoubtably, the Vong are  evil and a HUGE threat to the Republic and the Imperial Remnant.  I can't  concieve how they plan to continue this story arc over the next 20 some odd  books, but I'll be there seeing if they can pull it off.  Kudos to Mike  Stackpole for giving us two fun filled exciting books in this new series  and I'll look forward to seeing how the next author fares.	2000-06-27
US	52885056	R30BIKC6ZG6KXU	0345428447	87344379	Vector Prime (Star Wars: The New Jedi Order, Book 1)	Books	3	0	1	N	N	While not the best, it's not that bad	Vector Prime has to be the most controversial Star Wars novel to date.  It's darker, sure.  Certain things happen to certain characters that a host of folks aren't happy about.  I myself wish it could be avoided, but what's  done is done.  First, I'd like to say, thank goodness the Empire's not the  enemy here.  The Vong are a great enemy, to be sure, but I doubt we've seen  their true potential yet, as of this novel anyways  (I'm currenty on Dark  Tide 2, so I've learned more about them since this book,  obviously).<br />First off, this kind of story, the slowness and darkess isn't  really my cup of tea, but I enjoyed it nonetheless.  Keep in mind this is a  set up book for the rest of the series and I applaud them for taking the  characters in a different direction, and having the Jedi kids start to grow  up and come into their own.<br />Basically, if you want the type of Space  opera adventure spirit of the movies and some of the books, you might be  disappointed.  But, if you like different directions and darker stories,  this could be for you.  I'm still kind of spit on it personally, I fall in  the middle somewhere, so I found it a good, entertaining book, just not  great.	2000-06-19
US	52885056	R2UHUD8S7WGYK8	0345428544	573865480	Dark Tide I: Onslaught (Star Wars: The New Jedi Order, Book 2)	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Better than Vector Prime	I've got to be honest.  I was starting to get weary of the continuing adventures of my favorite characters.  I picked up Vector Prime and thought it was all right.  There was more potential there and I wanted to see how  the story continued, so I picked up Onslaught.  Wow!  I'm exited about Star  Wars books again!<br />It's great that the Empire isn't the enemy, but a far  greater threat.  With the Vong, you actually expect something bad to happen  to our heroes.  It's edge of your seat and has you turning the pages.   <br />I'm glad that we see other characters get some of the spotlight, instead  of concentrating SOLEY on Luke, Han and Leia.  We get to see Jacen, Jaina  and Anakin come into their own as true heroes of the Republic.  But, before  they can let their heads get to big, they get to see why the older  generation are legends.  I got chills when Luke finally got to whip some  butt again.  Wielding TWO lightsabers?  That's almost too good to be  true!<br />Anyways, the action flows, the story is interesting and the  characters are great.  Some complain about Han not having enough page time,  but I have a feeling we'll be seeing Han Solo back sometime soon.   <br />Simply, Michael A. Stackpole delivers the most entertaining literary  Star Wars tale in a long time... a long time.	2000-06-19
US	52885056	R351USK71WHQJV	0552124753	181852028	The colour of Magic	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Lives up to the hype.	Well, I recieved this book, in a collection of four of the Discworld books with Rincewind, through a science fiction book club because I forgot to send in that stupid &quot;Featured Selection&quot; thingie. (Anyone who's  ever been in one of these sort of clubs: books, movies, music, ect knows  what I'm talking about)  It turned out to be a mistake I'm glad I made.   The Colour of Magic has to be one of the funniest books I've ever read. It  sort of brought to mind how Monty Python might do a spoof of the fantasy  genre.  As a matter of fact, who better to play Rincewind than John Cleese?   I absolutely loved this book and can't wait to further delve into the  Discworld series.	1999-08-27
US	52885056	RMRF7W647MBZ9	0446607452	191779477	As Time Goes By	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Entertaining...	When I first heard about there being a sequel to Casablanca written as a book, I thought what many others did: Blasphemy!  But, when I saw it for sale, I figured since it had been written, there was nothing I could do  about that, I might as well read it.  I'm glad my curiousity allowed me to  buy the book, becuase it's very entertaining.  I read it very quickly,  almost sad when it was over.  It was just great seeing the characters  everyone loves so much back together again.  I also really enjoyed Rick's  backstory.  I think it actually fits to the type of character he is in the  movie. I think Michael Walsh did an outstanding job of staying true to the  movie and kudos for him putting so much research into it before writing it.   He should be applauded.  Way to go, Mr. Walsh!  He obviously has a bigger  love for the movie than a lot of people do.  Congrats, man.	1999-08-19
US	52885056	R2DTUU4Q8QJYX1	0671026704	915930446	Serpent: A Novel from the NUMA Files (NUMA Files Series Book One)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	No Dirk and Al?  I'm sure they'll be back. Meanwhile....	I found Serpent to be highly entertaining in the Cussler vien.  I actually like Kurt and Joe and hope to see more adventures from them.  Not to say I'm tired of Dirk and Al, far from it, I just like these guys too.  Maybe  one day team them with the legendary Pitt and Giordino.  As far as  characters where concerned, it felt sort of like an ensemble piece for me.   Sure Kurt and Joe take up the meat of the story, but you also have Nina,  Gamay and Professor Chi, whom I found to be wonderful characters.  The only  characters I really found lacking were the villians, except maybe Guzman.    What really drew my interest into the story though was the Indiana Jones  type story which I really, really love.  An exiting ride, I expect nothing  less from Mr. Cussler.  As for Paul Kemprecos, whatever his part was with  this story, I'm sure he only helped and not hindered as some people seem to  think.<br />All in all an entertaining ride that coulda used better villians,  and maybe have Austin and Joe a little less Dirk and Al-ish next time.   Other than that, a fun read, what more can you ask for in the summer.	1999-08-19
US	52885056	ROW1O4P97ZP89	0345314255	643750532	The Sword of Shannara	Books	5	6	8	N	N	Extremely Entertaining!!!	I look below and see all the comparisons to a Lord of the Rings.  Well, hang me, but I haven't read the Lord of the Rings, so I can't make that comparison.  The main reason I picked up this book was for two reasons:  One: I've heard others I know speak highly of it. Two: Brooks is writing  the novelization of the next Star Wars novel and after reading an interview  with him about that, I knew I had to pick it up.<br />Once again, I don't know  about all this comparison stuff, all I know is that I wanted to be  entertained, and this book delivered that big time!  Personally I could  relate to Shea,  he's probably about the age I am right now and he made  some of the same desicions I probably would have made in his situation.  So  I felt like I was there with them, and I cared deeply about each and every  character.  Despite their flaws, each proved to be heroic by the end.  The  battles were well described and I never bored while reading the action  scenes.<br />So, all I'm saying is that if you're not worried about the  comparisons to other certain works and merely wished to be entertained, I  could hardly recommend a better book.  After all, no one ever gripes at  George Lucas for lifting from other works and ancient myths to put in his  Star Wars movies, because they are so entertaining on their own, like this  book.	1999-03-03
US	52885056	R1QB0A3WMFRTIB	0449002411	209698720	The Presence	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Not bad at all	This was my first Saul book, and I was expecting a horror book.  What I got was a mystery thriller type of story that didn't disappoint.  Saul goes along and gives the reader just as much information as the heroine gets, so you don't know exactly whats going on untill she does.  This is about average people being put into a horrible situation, and it works well.  If you're looking for a good read, you could do worse than this book!	1998-06-18
US	52885056	RHH9EECT3XOGA	0446364193	597792275	Along Came A Spider	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Awesome Book!!!!	When I picked up this book after reading Kiss The Girls, I was expecting something awesome!  I wasn't disappointed in the very least!  This is the first book in a LONG time that I just couldn't bring myself to put down.  I read for hours, totally engrossed at the situation that Alex Cross found himself in.  An excellent hero in an excellent story, I would recommend you put this one on your MUST READ list!!!!	1998-05-17
US	52885056	R37OKWKU0JP0IU	0425162028	21671792	Phantoms	Books	5	0	1	N	N	My First Koontz, Definatly Not My Last	I saw the commercials to the movie and thought that the book might be worth looking at.  I'm glad I did, because this one is interesting from page one.  The action begins slow, but with enough mystery to hook you into it. As the book progresses and more characters show up, the action and terror gradually get more and more exciting, and ultimatly, more and more plausible.  The events in this book at first look highly unlikely to ever happen, but after all is revealed you can't help but think what if.....	1998-01-28
US	52885056	R1DNYXXK2CVGKA	0440213525	282981210	The Client	Books	5	0	0	N	N	One of Grisham's Greatest	This book had me hooked from page one.  I just couldn't put it down, and that of course,  is the mark of a great book.  It is truly believeble and actually had me fearing for the life of Mark Sway, even though I knew he was the hero of the book.  One in which you hated the bad guys, rooted for the good guys, and were disgusted by the lawyers trying to get in the way of their safety, a truly great book.	1998-01-28
US	52885056	RSYCDTNI4Y07C	0440211727	883917886	A Time to Kill	Books	5	0	0	N	N	The Best!!!!!!	This was the first Grisham I read, and I read it because I saw the movie and enjoyed it much.  I was wondering how the book could be as good as the movie and I was totally blown away.  Grisham's grip on dialog is the best I've ever read, and the background stories missing from the movie are enjoyable as well.  All in all probably the best, heartwrenching, emotional book I have ever read and it hooked me to the rest of John Grisham's books.  A definite must read.	1998-01-28
