US	52884931	R2496PQ72UXPST	0590353403	667539744	Harry Potter And The Sorcerer's Stone	Books	5	1	2	N	Y	A world of wonderment	My daughter, a teacher and mother of my first grandchild, encouraged me to read the Harry Potter series so when the youngster is of the reading-to age, I would be prepared.  To that end, she gave me the entire set.  Beginning at the beginning, I opened the Sorcerer's Stone and became hooked.  This is great stuff, and as a senior citizen I highly recommend it for the ubiquitous children \\"of all ages.\\"  I can see why it takes Ms. Rowling so long to write one of these adventures:  It must take months to come up with all the delightful names of people and objects and to create the wizardry world of Hogwarts (see what I mean about names!), plus the traditions and games and history of this other world.  And yes, even though it is fantasy, I predict you will be caught up in the spells she weaves.  This is a book of mini-adventures, which - except for the principal mystery - conclude within a few fast-moving pages.  I believe this is an important factor to keep children interested.  There is suspense and some scary stuff, but most of it is over in a paragraph or two.  And there's humor that kids will laugh out loud at.  This is a book that is populated with great characters that children can identify with.  They range from Harry, the put-upon orphan who becomes a hero, to Hermione the bookish girl who earns her place among the boys, to Neville the diminutive lad who just naturally lags behind as he is constantly looking for his lost toad.  There's even Hagrid, a gentle, and not too smart, giant.  If you've got a child about nine who won't be motivated to read, I suggest you just leave a couple of these Potter books lying around without comment.  Chances are good that the child might just pick one up, after all Harry is totally awesome among the young set.  Once reaching the second page, the child will forget about the fact he/she \\"hates to read.\\"	2005-09-28
US	52884931	R2I4LQXC7HTHZY	0313227357	130918576	Beyond the Adirondacks: The Story of St. Regis Paper Company (Contributions in Economics and Economic History)	Books	2	4	8	N	N	An in-house mouthpiece, and it shows.	In the Introduction to this book, it is simply and briefly stated:  \\"The St. Regis Paper Company sponsored the effort (book).\\"  And then it goes on to name a lot of people who read the book before publication and provided \\"many substantive editorial comments.  James F. Kussmann, vice-president of public affairs, was the company's gracious and patient liaison.\\"  So, we can conclude that there is nothing in this book that hasn't been approved by the Company.  (Thus, we get very little about the industry's documented pollution creation.)  And yet, the main impression I came away with is why would anybody bother to go into the paper making business?  There appears to be little return for expenditure.  The high cost of mill construction and labor, new product development research expenditures, the difficulty in obtaining raw materials from which the paper is made, plus water and air pollution controls are just a few of the obstacles to overcome.  To make a go of the business, much of St. Regis' time and money was spent in acquisitions, first of power utilities and forested lands, then other paper companies to expand their product varieties and geographic locations, then the design and construction of packaging and paper making equipment.  St. Regis was one of the largest corporations in the industry (the largest at one time), and became worldwide in scope. Very little is said about profits, but when they are mentioned, they are negligible for the size of the operation.  For example, in 1967, St. Regis' holdings outside North America had \\"a book value of $26 million.  St. Regis had at least 50 percent ownership in thirteen firms with sales that year an estimated $85 million.\\"  That works out to $5.6 million per plant.  And from that we need to subtract millions in costs of operation leaving very little, if any, for profit.  There are a handful of other net profit examples given, but when compared to investment to secure them, it hardly seems worthwhile.  It is interesting to read of their sales strategies (\\"selling all the way through\\" and \\"the full wagon\\" were two of them and deserve a text book of their own) and the problems they tried to overcome with various corporate structures.  From a little plant in Deferiet, New York opened in 1899 to a multi-national conglomerate 81 years later, this is a very complicated story.  And that is the area in which the writers needed much more help.  The book is very poorly edited.  There is apparently no thought given to the flow of information provided.  In one paragraph we could be reading about 1965, then immediately switch back to 1942, then to the mid `70s.  The history of St. Regis would have been much more understandable if a chronological order had been followed in the telling; or, barring that, at least a geographical history, state-by-state and country-by-country.  But as it is, it's a hodgepodge of information.  Even a chart of the organization including its many subsidiaries would have helped.  There are 27 pages containing 31 photographs, half of them head shots of Company executives that add little to the book beyond comparing hairstyles over the century.  And the book is burdened by executive names with hundreds stuffed into the text.  Not only the first and last names, but middle initials were deemed necessary.  It's a difficult book to slog through.  And when I was done I learned little beyond what I already knew from my family's association with the company as plant technicians.  The only reason I can imagine anyone would buy/read this book is because, as a Company executive, their name is one of the hundreds included.to read of their sales strategies (\\"selling all the way through\\" and \\"the full wagon\\" were two of them and deserve a text book of their own) and the problems they tried to overcome with various corporate structures.  From a little plant in Deferiet, New York opened in 1899 to a multi-national conglomerate 81 years later, this is a very complicated story.  And that is the area in which the writers needed much more help.  The book is very poorly edited.  There is apparently no thought given to the flow of information provided.  In one paragraph we could be reading about 1965, then immediately switch back to 1942, then to the mid `70s.  The history of St. Regis would have been much more understandable if a chronological order had been followed in the telling; or, barring that, at least a geographical history, state-by-state and country-by-country.  But as it is, it's a hodgepodge of information.  Even a chart of the organization including its many subsidiaries would have helped.   There are 27 pages containing 31 photographs, half of them head shots of Company executives that add little to the book beyond comparing hairstyles over the century.  And the book is burdened by executive names with hundreds stuffed into the text.  Not only the first and last names, but middle initials were deemed necessary.  It's a difficult book to slog through.  And when I was done I learned little beyond what I already knew from my family's association with the company as plant technicians.  The only reason I can imagine anyone would buy/read this book is because, as a Company executive, their name is one of the hundreds included.	2005-09-01
US	52884931	R1OUZEMATFKFBX	0156028379	211741025	Maigret and the Man on the Bench (Maigret Mystery Series)	Books	2	3	6	N	N	The M.O. wouldn't work.	The premise of this Maigret mystery is promising:  A man found stabbed in a Paris alleyway with much more money in his pocket and wearing a different pair of shoes and tie than when he left his home in the morning.  And why was he in the alley and not at work?  These questions intrigue us and our Inspector as he attempts to find the murderer.  But, the payoff is a huge dissapointment.  First of all, there are crimes committed, but the M.O. of them is not feasible.  Maybe, by luck, it could have worked once, twice at the very most, but when you consider it was used over and over within a few city blocks, it's impossible to think it would be successful.  And further, the perp is caught due to police work in another city for which Maigret is the recipient of their determined efforts.  He does very little to solve the case.  The characters introduced in the book are quite interesting, but the plot and payoff are slow-going and disappointing.  Not the best Maigret by a long shot.	2005-09-01
US	52884931	RSBPFTUKT9MSZ	0451012488	608889486	Inspector Maigret and the Killers	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Stereotypical American gangsters invade Paris	Inspector Maigret and the Killers (1952) was obviously written for the French audience with no concern for a future American translation.  It seems that Simenon did his research for this novel by watching old Warner Brothers' gangster films of the 1930s and `40s.  For in it, we are introduced to two St. Louis (Mafia) hoods following a third to Paris to wipe him out.  It's a transatlantic gang war with Maigret being constantly advised to \\"let it go,\\" because all American gangsters are so ruthless, blood thirsty, and cunningly evil that they are beyond his ability to comprehend or apprehend.  The Inspector resents this attitude and goes after the swarthy assassins whose last names end in vowels.  Along the way, Simenon makes it clear he believes these professional killers are a dime a dozen in America, an alleged breeding ground for hooliganism.  Although the premise is a bit overwrought, it's a decent mystery with a good amount of suspense and kind of a hoot to read, especially the shoot out between cops and one of the gangsters on the streets of Paris.  It's another winner in the Maigret series.	2005-08-22
US	52884931	R26Z4SMTX4U2JO	014002025X	344578734	Maigret and the Hundred Gibbets	Books	4	11	11	N	N	It's not who did it, but what did they do?	While on a visit to Brussels, as a lark Inspector Maigret follows a seedy looking character whom he found mailing large amounts of money to himself.  It's a puzzle that intrigues Maigret, and to bring the situation to a head, he switches suitcases with the unfortunate and follows him to his flop-house hotel.  Maigret takes an adjoining room, peeks through the keyhole as the stranger opens the case.  Shocked by what he finds there, he kills himself.  Maigret, to assuage his guilt, tries to get to the bottom of the mystery, which introduces him to four middle-aged, successful businessmen who are acting very suspiciously, even to the point of attempting to kill Maigret; not once, but twice.  We know they are guilty of something, but what?  And that's the mystery that keeps the inspector, and us, enthralled.  But wait, we're not done yet.  Once Maigret solves the riddle, we have one more huge surprise in store for us.  It's a taut story that keeps us involved to the very last paragraphs.  It's a quick, satisfying read filled with interesting characters and a thought-provoking solution.  It's another fine story in the Maigret series.	2005-08-16
US	52884931	R10MIU5YHHEW4I	0156028484	259843534	Maigret Sets A Trap (Maigret Mystery Series)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	A real detective at work	It's not dames, blazing guns, nor exploding fists.  It's a battle of wits, stake outs and interrogations that set Inspector Maigret at the top of his profession in a series of 88 books written by Simenon between 1930 and 1972; books that led to movies and a TV series.  A good case could be made that Simenon was the Arthur Conan Doyle of his day and Maigret his Sherlock Holmes.  Written in 1955, \\"Trap\\" presents a Jack The Ripper style serial killer who has evaded police for five months while stabbing and killing a woman per month.  Following an after dinner discussion with a psychiatrist, Maigret forms a plan to trap the villain.  The plan is put in motion, and seems to work.  But did it?  There has been another killing and the Inspector is beside himself with guilt.  This is a fast paced read of 170 pages that seem to turn themselves.  In Maigret, Simenon has created an interesting, consistent character with human traits and foibles that lend a great deal of believability to the story.  A good-sized step above pulp fiction, the Maigret books are a pleasant way to spend a few hours.	2005-08-10
US	52884931	R3T1F6XIROZRB3	0156551330	411548722	Maigret and the Hotel Majestic	Books	1	3	16	N	N	And there were 88 of them?	This is my first foray into the Inspector Maigret books, one of eighty-eight mysteries written over the course of 42 years by Georges Simenon.  Written in his native tongue, these books have been translated by others from French to English, and there are minor jolts here and there when everybody is \\"speaking\\" in English in the translation, but one character can't understand what another is saying because he is speaking in another language, yet both appear to speak in English in the dialogue.  Also, the author bombards us with information, names, and details that do little else but pad the number of pages.  And there's a glaring error.  In the beginning and end sections of the book, it is the cold of winter, which a number of characters complain about.  But in the middle, chapter 6 and 7, it is suddenly the Fourteenth of July and everybody is sweltering in the heat.  Yet, the entire story takes place in a matter of days.  Maigret's investigative procedure seems to be to put himself adjacent to the suspects, and because of his reputation as a crack detective, they start blathering on and on and saying things they shouldn't as he remains quiet.  And the clue that solves the case is so obscure, and so particular to an uncommon human experience, that I would dare say only a miniscule number of readers would have any knowledge at all of the circumstance.  Still there were eighty-eight of these stories comprising a very popular series of books and yielding a TV series and several films.  So, I will withhold judgment on the Maigret books until I read a few more.  But if this one is any indication, I just don't understand it.  (Note:  After having read a number of these stories, I new believe that this particiular Maigret book can be explained away by the premise that even Babe Ruth struck out once in a while.)	2005-08-05
US	52884931	R1Y8Q1ADQ3YE5O	0743250443	580129421	Generation of Swine: Tales of Shame and Degradation in the '80's	Books	5	26	27	N	N	Take this in small doses	What we have here are over 100 op-ed pieces (about 2 1/2 book pages each) that ran in the San Francisco Examiner over a three-year period, December 1985 thru November 1988 and are now compiled in Gonzo Papers Volume 2 (Volume 1 was The Great Shark Hunt).  These were originally meant to be read at the rate of one a week, but of course you can increase your speed on this compilation.  However, I read them in a handful of sittings and suffered from severe overload.  First of all, at this fast rate you get a good deal of duplication that waters down the overall affect Thompson was trying to create in his weekly column.  Thompson reminds me of the famous Groucho Marx line:  \\"Whatever it is, he's against it!\\"  Just picked at random:  \\"Any baboon with a healthy heart and good diction... could do Neil Frank's job (director of the National Hurricane Center).  President Reagan: \\"...seems to be dumber than three mules.\\"  Frank Sinatra: \\"...is said to be smart, but he was fired and cut off from every casino in New Jersey when he tried to play blackjack by rules he learned in Nevada...They chased him out like a wino.  It was an ugly thing to see.\\"  And these quotes all come from just one article.  Pick a name or event from the headlines of these three years and you'll find a bombastic opinion from Thompson aimed directly at it.  It is a fun and funny read.  You'll find yourself thinking and speaking in the Thompson style.  It's addictive.  But, too much at one time can put you over the top.  For more reasons than one, this would make for good bathroom reading material.	2005-08-02
US	52884931	R335ZDXKA28YHA	0688170889	159110240	Dizzy: The Life and Times of John Birks Gillespie	Books	4	3	3	N	N	It was the women in his life	Dizzy Gillespie was truly blessed.  Not only with an amazing talent and the ability that allowed him to grasp and expand on the concepts of harmony and rhythm, but by the women in his life who made his success possible.  It began with his mother, who after the death of Dizzy's abusive dad when the boy was only 9, worked long, hard hours as a seamstress, laundress, and house cleaner to provide for her children.  Then there was Dizzy's third grade teacher who realized he had special talent and encouraged his musicality and eventually recruited him for the school band.  Next it was a student nurse at the Laurinberg Institute, who lobbied for his admission to the Institute that was noted for its two commercial bands and where Dizzy got a first-class musical education.  There was the daughter of the Institute's owners who, in her free time, taught Dizzy the intricacies of the piano.  This became an important instrument to Dizzy's success, as he was now able to work out new and challenging harmonies at the keyboard.  And further, because of his ability to play piano and read music, he was one of the few be-boppers of his generation who was able to chart the music they were creating, without which much of the music probably would not have survived.  Finally came sweet Lorraine, whom Dizzy met in 1937 at a time when he was only able to obtain occasional band work.  After their meeting, Dizzy hit financial bottom, and when Lorraine discovered him begging for money for food, she began to help him.  Soon they moved in together and were married within three years, and until the end of his life, 53 years later, she provided support and financial stability.  Dizzy was a spendthrift who would have kept the family broke if Lorraine had not stepped in and taken over the finances of both Dizzy and his bands.  And Dizzy was constantly surrounded by addictive and illegal substances that Lorraine kept at bay.  Author Maggin follows Dizzy's life as he progresses from swing music to the small cadre of instrumentalists who created the new form of jazz, be bop.  This modernistic approach to jazz was first derided by critics and audiences alike, but eventually, as listeners became accustomed to the somewhat cacophonic sound, be bop supplanted swing in popularity.  To this new creation, Dizzy added Afro-Cuban sounds to start another musical revolution.  Some of Dizzy's contemporaries took the music even further with fusion and free styles, but in 1949, Dizzy began to realize that his music had gone too far when he bemoaned, \\"The trouble with bop as it is played today is that people can't dance to it,\\" and he reigned in his horn to earn acclaim and wealth for the rest of his life.  Maggin does a superb job of explaining the intricate changes from swing to be bop to Afro-Cuban as he relates the development of this new music.  He gives us interesting comments along with mini-bios on the musicians involved, many of them superstars, who worked in and around Dizzy's big bands and small groups.  From time to time he slips into \\"and then he recorded\\" modes, but he sprinkles in enough colorful material to make them painless.  He even lets us know when Dizzy recorded a clunker, as he often did when he tried to appeal to rock audiences in the 1960s.  It would have been helpful if Maggin had created a glossary of musical terms, as I found myself returning to earlier pages to refresh myself on how he explained technical concepts such as diatonic harmony and flatted fifths.  This is a happy book about a giant of a man who brought joy to others while exalting in his own life.  From a lad picking cotton to an ambassador of good will playing \\"Salt Peanuts\\" with President Jimmy Carter, Gillespie had a magical ride and Maggin takes us along every joyous step of the way in this well-researched, organized, and comprehensive biography.mall cadre of instrumentalists who created the new form of jazz, be bop.  This modernistic approach to jazz was first derided by critics and audiences alike, but eventually, as listeners became accustomed to the somewhat cacophonic sound, be bop supplanted swing in popularity.  To this new creation, Dizzy added Afro-Cuban sounds to start another musical revolution.  Some of Dizzy's contemporaries took the music even further with fusion and free styles, but in 1949, Dizzy began to realize that his music had gone too far when he bemoaned, \\"The trouble with bop as it is played today is that people can't dance to it,\\" and he reigned in his horn to earn acclaim and wealth for the rest of his life.   Maggin does a superb job of explaining the intricate changes from swing to be bop to Afro-Cuban as he relates the development of this new music.  He gives us interesting comments along with mini-bios on the musicians involved, many of them superstars, who worked in and around Dizzy's big bands and small groups.  From time to time he slips into \\"and then he recorded\\" modes, but he sprinkles in enough colorful material to make them painless.  He even lets us know when Dizzy recorded a clunker, as he often did when he tried to appeal to rock audiences in the 1960s.  It would have been helpful if Maggin had created a glossary of musical terms, as I found myself returning to earlier pages to refresh myself on how he explained technical concepts such as diatonic harmony and flatted fifths.  This is a happy book about a giant of a man who brought joy to others while exalting in his own life.   From a lad picking cotton to an ambassador of good will playing \\"Salt Peanuts\\" with President Jimmy Carter, Gillespie had a magical ride and Maggin takes us along every joyous step of the way in this well-researched, organized, and comprehensive biography.	2005-07-27
US	52884931	RUIM1OZY4XX9K	B0006XEDYA	273347920	The man of bronze;: A Doc Savage adventure	Books	5	5	5	N	N	A rousing start to 181 adventures.	\\"There was death afoot in the darkness.\\"  And thus begins the 181 adventures of \\"The Man of Bronze; Doc Savage\\" as recorded in his pulp magazine series which first appeared in March 1933 and continued to 1949.  (For the last few years, the mag was a quarterly.)  In 1964 Bantam began re-issuing the stories in paperbacks, which ran for 26 years.  In this initial adventure, Doc and his five cohorts had already shared adventures together, so it's not the group's beginning, instead a major change in their lives was to take place.  It begins with the death of Doc's adventurous father, caused by the cursed Red Death.  Doc's father left instructions for his son and companions to travel to the fictional South American country of Hidalgo and into \\"The Valley of the Vanished.\\"  Following a series of attempted murders and high-speed chases, the sextet arrives at their destination to find that it contains never-ending wealth that will support Doc's escapades forever.  But first he has to overcome the treachery of the evil Morning Breeze, the Snake Man, and the Red Death.  It's non-stop action in the air and on and under the earth.  I have read a number of the Savage adventures, and this is by far the best written.  The reason, I think, is obvious:  Lester Dent, under the pen name of Kenneth Robeson, had the time to devote to getting this right, whereas after the series began he was under the deadline of one book a month.  And, he did get it right.  It's easy to understand why this pulp series was so successful, unlike many that failed after an issue or two.  First, there is continual action throughout.  Also, Doc is not super-human, but trained through exercise and schooling to the heights of his prowess, a concept a young lad could emulate.  Further, Doc is backed by five very different adventurers, each so different that the reader could find one to identify with.  Also, here at the height of the depression, Doc and his gang have unlimited financial resources to do their good deeds.  Finally, no mushy stuff, for Robeson repeatedly tells us there is no room in the heroes' lives for women, only adventure.  Because Robeson reintroduces the cast of characters and their backgrounds in each book, it's not necessary to read the first one first or any of them in order.  But, if you're going to read the adventures of Doc Savage, this is one not to miss.deeds.  Finally, no mushy stuff, for Robeson repeatedly tells us there is no room in the heroes' lives for women, only adventure.  Because Robeson reintroduces the cast of characters and their backgrounds in each book, it's not necessary to read the first one first or any of them in order.  But, if you're going to read the adventures of Doc Savage, this is one not to miss.	2005-07-19
US	52884931	R1GC5H3PRS73Y8	1585423963	771144482	Like a Lampshade in a Whorehouse	Books	3	21	25	N	N	I still don't know who she is deep inside.	This is not a bad book, but it's not great, either.  After reading this autobiography, I still don't feel like I know who Ms. Diller is.  She claims several times that she is an atheist.  Yet, we get a number of \\"thank God\\"s and \\"God only knows\\" during the course of her telling, as well as a prayer that she wrote that she claims \\"paid dividends.\\"  Who was she praying to?  Ms. Diller had what most people would think was a horrible life.  She was the ugly daughter of elderly parents who had no conception of how to raise a child.  Her first marriage was to a terrible man (much worse than Fang, her comedic on-stage name for her husband) who was a drunk, a lay-a-bout, and a parasite that fed off her stardom.  Her second husband was no better.  Although a hunk and a second-rate entertainer, he was extremely jealous of her success and, as she found out too late, he was gay.  He would leave her in the hotel room and have sex with guys on the beach.  Her next great love died suddenly while she was entertaining at sea.  She had children she was unable to care for and had to ship off to troubled relatives, a daughter who was psychotic, another son and a daughter who died tragically in adulthood.  She claims to have loved the son, although they had been incommunicado for years.  It's just one bad happening after another.  And she tells us about it unflinchingly.  But she never really tells us how she feels.  We can make assumptions, but based on our feelings, not hers.  And through all of this chaos, she perseveres to become a superstar as a TV, stage and film comedienne, a best-selling author, a pianist who performed with over 100 symphony orchestras, and an artist of some renown.  The fact that she climbed to such heights from such depths is amazing and a tribute to her fortitude.  The book is fast paced and clearly written and is peppered with one-line zingers from her act.  But it would have been much more powerful and moving if she had told us what was going on behind that broken nose and under that chopped pixie hair cut.t broken nose and under that chopped pixie hair cut.	2005-06-17
US	52884931	R3FV636F864D24	0743250451	648522233	The Great Shark Hunt: Strange Tales from a Strange Time (Gonzo Papers, Volume 1)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	A terrific overview of twenty years of writing	My first and only encounter with Hunter S. Thompson was my read many years ago of his \\"Fear and Loathing In Las Vegas,\\" which I felt was one of the scariest books I have ever read.  Following Thompson's untimely death, I decided to try him again.  And am I glad I did.  \\"The Great Shark Hunt contains\\" long excerpts from some of his most popular books, including the aforementioned Vegas book, plus \\"Fear and Loathing on the Campaign Trail\\" and \\"Hell's Angels: A Strange and Terrible Saga.\\"  After reading this book, these titles are going on my must-read list.  Also, insights presented into his writing of F&LinLV make me want to read that again from a new perspective.  Also included in this book are what appear to be the complete Thompson essays as they appeared in Rolling Stones, The National Observer, The New York Times, Scanlan's Monthly, and others.  It's a good representation of Thompson's work from the 1960s and 1970s.  I especially enjoyed his filings from his several month sojourn to South America, his coverage of Ali's third championship comeback attempt against Leon Spinks, his diatribes against Richard Nixon, and his admiration for George McGovern and Jimmy Carter.  Thompson tells about his discovery of Carter when he heard what Carter has called the greatest speech he ever made, Law Day, May 4, 1974.  After whetting our appetite, the book presents the speech in its entirety.  I must admit the over-the-top Thompson style becomes quite tiring to me after 400 pages.  As Roger Ebert described it in his review of F&LinLV:  \\"He (Thompson) coined the term 'gonzo journalism' to describe his guerrilla approach to reporting, which consisted of getting stoned out of his mind, hurling himself at a story, and recording it in frenzied hyperbole.\\"  But after returning from a long weekend in the Adirondack Mountains, I was ready to return to the last 200 pages and now after a suitable break, I will try another of his books.  For those never having sampled Thompson, this \\"reader\\" would be a great introduction.ader\\" would be a great introduction.	2005-06-10
US	52884931	R13XJZ4QZ6XN0S	2553033400	376230595	Doc Savage #16: The Spook Legion	Books	1	1	2	N	N	One of the lesser adventures in the series	As a fan of Doc Savage, I consider myself fortunate to have collected all of the Bantam Paperback reprints of the original 181 Doc Savage Magazines. Written by Lester Dent, under the pen name of Kenneth Robeson, the pulp magazine was published as a monthly beginning in 1933 to 1949. (For the last few years it was a quarterly.) In 1964, Bantam began their series of paperbacks, which ran for 26 years. As time allows, I will give brief descriptions/reviews of the entire series.  In book # 16, \\"The Spook Legion,\\" Doc continues in the realm of science fiction that began in the previous book, in which a series of mysterious things happen, with no rationale explanations given.  Previously, all the phenomena that happened were logically explained at the end of each book, but not here.  In this adventure, Doc and only two of his associates (Monk and Ham) take on a group of invisible men.  This is also a departure from the series, as for the first time the other three of Doc's cohorts (Renny, Long Tom and Brooks) appear nowhere in the tale.  The evil mastermind, working under a skunk farm on Long Island, has found a way to turn men invisible.  Their crime wave begins at a New York opera house where the invisibles roam the audience taking precious jewelry and striking terror everywhere.  These plotters soon have police and citizens convinced that it is Doc and his gang that are the perpetrators.  It is continual, excessively repeated action throughout until Doc and Monk themselves become invisible, infiltrate the gang, and bring about justice.  How does Robeson/Savage explain the invisibility?  Well as Doc says, \\"It has something to do with altering the electronic composition of the body, securing an atomic motific status which results in complete diaphaneity.\\" Huh?  Not one of the best of the series by a long shot.	2005-05-03
US	52884931	RTJHOU3NI0FAP	1596541474	934137682	17 Murder Melody and The Fantastic Island	Books	1	0	1	N	N	All fiction, no science.	As a fan of Doc Savage, I consider myself fortunate to have collected all of the Bantam Paperback reprints of the original 181 Doc Savage Magazines. Written by Lester Dent, under the pen name of Kenneth Robeson, the pulp magazine was published as a monthly beginning in 1933 to 1949. (For the last few years it was a quarterly.) In 1964, Bantam began their series of paperbacks, which ran for 26 years. As time allows, I will give brief descriptions/reviews of the entire series.  Part of the fun for me in reading the Savage books is the impossible situations Robeson puts his heroes in, and then the rational explanations he gives as the adventures/mysteries are solved.  However, book 15 in the series, \\"Murder Melody\\" was a new experience for me.  This time there is no rational explanation as Robeson creates improbable fiction as the adventure takes place in the center of the earth.  Even then, physical explanations for how things operate are, for the most part, figments of Robeson's imagination, not based on any scienctific principals.  Savage and his crew of five go to Oregon and Alaska to determine the cause of earthquakes.  There they are captured by men from the center of the earth who have the ability to defy gravity at will and play flutes that can either cause instant death or unconsciousness. These books were written basically for young teen boys, and I find it hard to believe that they could comprehend much of what transpired in this adventure.  Because the basis of this adventure is fiction, not science, I found this one of the most unrewarding Savage books I have read.  The climax of the book does offer some unexpected twists, but it is still too far-fetched to be real Doc Savage.	2005-04-20
US	52884931	R73WLC7Y9SX4B	0974691607	978147815	My Ship! The U.S.S. Intrepid - A World War 2 Memoir	Books	4	6	6	N	N	The Ship, the men, the joys, the sorrows	Maybe you were fortunate enough to have this experience:  Maybe your dad, or your grandfather, or a favorite uncle brought out a cigar box full of his World War II memorabilia, sat down with you around the kitchen table, and told you what it was like during his time defending America.  That's what it's like to read the memoir \\"My Ship\\" by Raymond T. Stone.  No, it's not literature.  Nor does it pretend to be.  It's the simple telling of one man's experiences serving on U.S.S. Intrepid during the War.  It covers the training, the battles, the shore leaves from the bombing of Pearl Harbor to VJ Day.  Stone spent most of his time on The Intrepid, the most frequently hit carrier in the Navy.  The ship also had its share of victories too, with enemy ships and planes destroyed numbering in the hundreds.  Stone's description of the scope of the planning that went into the action carried out by the armada of battleships, aircraft carriers, cruisers and destroyers is amazing to contemplate.  He explains the importance of radar to the Allied effort and how its use could have been the major factor in winning the war.  He peppers his telling with pages from his unauthorized diary, photos of shipmates and battle scenes, menus from holidays on board, clippings from the ship's newspaper, the kind of things a guy is likely to keep.  He also includes a number of dramatic reminisces from his shipmates.  Nitpicking a bit, there is some degree of duplication throughout the book (I counted five mentions of the fact that cigarettes only cost a nickel a pack).  And one larger fault:  A dearth of maps.  Yes, there are a couple of maps, but not anywhere near enough seeing the action takes place over much of the Pacific.  More maps would have been a big help in understanding the vast area in which these men operated.  Beyond that, this is a good book in helping the reader understand what it was like at sea for our forces during The Big War.	2005-04-14
US	52884931	R15GLEWEUGFMP8	0743267524	778315947	Faithful: Two Diehard Boston Red Sox Fans Chronicle the Historic 2004 Season	Books	3	3	3	N	N	Even a Yankee fan can enjoy this book, but not little kids.	First, let me state that I have been a life-long Yankee fan.  I grew up in Lake Placid, NY, in the 1940-1950s, and the only radio station we could get, WNBZ in Saranac Lake, was a Yankee affiliate.  So, by default, I am covered in pinstripes.  Even after the choke of 2004, I still decided to give this book a try during Spring Training to get me psyched up for the new season.  After the first 30 pages, when Stew and Step are still writing about the Sox in Florida, I figured this tome was going to get real dull and boring in short order.  Well, it didn't.  The guys take us along on the roller-coaster season the Sox had with variety, style, and great laugh-out-loud humor.  It became a page turner.  One event of the year I really looked forward to reading about was  Pedro's melt-down when he exclaimed that the Yanks \\"proved they're my Daddy.\\"  This was headline making news in New York for days as we laughed and laughed at the fool.  But, King has a different take when he theorizes that it was all a smart, psychological ploy.  Then we get to the two rounds of play-offs and the World Serious.  Here the book seems rushed.  Like they had to finish it and get it off to the publisher and the hungry public.  Can you believe it, they even skipped telling us about the Sox' two first playoff games against the Twins, covering them with only a handful of words.  This after describing game-after-game all season long.  I don't understand this oversight.  Another clue they were in a hurry to finish:  The only typos I saw were in the last pages.  Another thing:  The book could have used a glossary of terms, especially nicknames of Red Sox players.  The authors used their personally favored nicknames often through the book, and -- especially at the beginning -- it would be difficult for a non-Sox fan to know who they're talking about.  This is also true of bits of Red Sox history they referred to with fan shorthand, leaving me in the dark about what they were talking about. Finally, baseball is a bonding sport between generations.  But dads and moms might think twice about sharing this book with their young children.  For some reason, O'Nan and King found it necessary to include the \\"F\\" word, not often, but enough.  The few times should have been exorcised.  It was not needed.  I'm glad I read this book.  I only wish it had been fiction.eball is a bonding sport between generations.  But dads and moms might think twice about sharing this book with their young children.  For some reason, O'Nan and King found it necessary to include the \\"F\\" word, not often, but enough.  The few times should have been exorcised.  It was not needed.  I'm glad I read this book.  I only wish it had been fiction.	2005-03-29
US	52884931	R3QUDJ45UZQEHF	1929753152	168553451	Me and the Dead End Kid	Books	5	43	44	N	N	A son's tribute to his dad, a moving biography	Well, the way I figure it, Leo Gorcey felt that he earned so much fan adoration, became one of Hollywood's biggest money makers, and wielded power in the movie board rooms because his character - Spit/Muggs/Slip - was loud-mouthed, smart-alecy, bullying, hat-pounding, overbearing, and childish.  It certainly wasn't because he had talent; he never wanted to be an actor, never liked the movie business.  (At least that's what he claimed.  I think he secretly did enjoy it, otherwise why would he do it so well for so many films until his father's death made it impossible to work any more.)  Therefore, to earn the love of the women in his life, and his children, he just had to turn it up several notches to become a drunken, gun wielding, abusive, screaming husband and father.  Then everybody would love him.  At least that's what I garnered out of the terrific biography of Gorcey by his son, Leo, Jr..  This is the story of an actor's rise from a plumber's helper to the star and centerpiece of one of the most successful movie series of all time:  The Bowery Boys, nee the Dead End/Eastside Kids.  The realism captured here is overwhelming.  The son puts us in the world of the dad and it is if we are there for the meetings, the confrontations, shooting on the set, the explosive family occasions, many of which happened before the author was even born.  The feelings he generates and the language he so perfectly captures makes the scene come alive before our eyes.  Yes, Leo, Sr., is quoted in his Lower East Side accent throughout the book, both in character and out, which leads me to think, because of this consistency, that maybe that's the way he talked in real life.  In these scenes we feel the star's wonderment at his fast rising success and grasp of power, his love and pledged support to his parents, his destruction at his father's unexpected death.  But, this is more than a story of an actor out of control; it is as well the attempt of a son to reconcile his love for his father with the constant abusive attention he received.  The book moves along quickly to a soul-searching letter from son to now-deceased father that Leo, Jr. shares with us.  A sequel is promised in the book; what more he could write about I can't imagine, but I am waiting its publication.  (Upon checking with Leo, Jr., I am told that plans for the sequel have been put on hold while their energies are earmarked for making a movie of the first book.  Who will play Leo?  How about the kid from Malcolm in the Middle?)  I will remember this book for a long time and look at the next Bowery Boy film I happen to see with increased respect.ather with the constant abusive attention he received.  The book moves along quickly to a soul-searching letter from son to now-deceased father that Leo, Jr. shares with us.   A sequel is promised in the book; what more he could write about I can't imagine, but I am waiting its publication.  (Upon checking with Leo, Jr., I am told that plans for the sequel have been put on hold while their energies are earmarked for making a movie of the first book.  Who will play Leo?  How about the kid from Malcolm in the Middle?)  I will remember this book for a long time and look at the next Bowery Boy film I happen to see with increased respect.	2005-03-04
US	52884931	R3M6WQJV4MAUP9	0922233209	454556260	Raw Deal: Horrible and Ironic Stories of Forgotten Americans	Books	3	6	7	N	N	The format does it in.	In \\"Raw Deal,\\" author Ken Smith has compiled twenty-two \\"horrible and ironic stories of forgotten Americans.\\"  And indeed, that is what they are.  We read about \\"Star of the Monkey House,\\" an African pygmy who was put on display at the Bronx Zoo and his ignoble future once he is discharged.  And there's the story of Black Kettle, the Cheyenne chief who argued for peace before he was slaughtered by Custer.  Plus the inventor of laughing gas who ended up dead in his prison cell at the age of thirty-three.  And you'll learn why James Garfield was our unluckiest President.  All of the stories are fascinating, well written, and accompanied by good pen and ink sketches.  And each is more horrifying than the one before.  But, none of them are very moving.  How can you not be moved by Jerry Tarbot, the living unknown soldier from World War I who suffered from severe wounds, mustard gas poisoning, and shell shock which led to a long recovery process and finally total amnesia?  Because, his life story is told in thirteen pages.  It's difficult to build and maintain deep sympathy for any of these characters when their story is condensed into such a short space.  For example, imagine the emotion involved when Tarbot visits an antiques shop he thought he might have worked in, only to find it was closed, but the owner lived across the street.  He hurries to the home to discover they're holding the owner's funeral and another door is slammed in his face.  In none of these stories do you enter the head of the subject to learn how he was feeling, what he is thinking.  Again, it is not Smith's fault, but the problem is with the format.  Each subject deserves at least one-third of a book, if not the whole book.  Smith must have realized this, because at the end of the book he gives us a bibliography for each chapter, which lists entire books devoted to the individuals he has encapsulated.  So, for each, you can learn the full story in possibly more dramatic terms.  This book remains like an encyclopedia to lead the reader to further exploration of the topics contained within.  To that end, it magnificently achieves its goal.  But, it makes for not a very satisfying read.ike an encyclopedia to lead the reader to further exploration of the topics contained within.  To that end, it magnificently achieves its goal.  But, it makes for not a very satisfying read.	2005-02-23
US	52884931	RMJKJIVTGEGCS	1401300707	586898955	All Fishermen are Liars: True Tales From the Dry Dock Bar	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Hey, Linda, let's go for a drink.	At the beginning of this, her third and latest book, author Greenlaw says, \\"I could only hope that there might be someone who was interested in hearing more from me.  I was full of apprehension and fear that...I had caught my last fish the trip before.\\"  No need to fear, in fact, if you keep writing like this you will soon be known not as the lady swordfish skipper from \\"The Perfect Storm,\\" but as the writer of very good and popular seafaring books.  Because that's what \\"All Fishermen Are Liars\\" is, a book of so-called true tales from the Dry Dock Bar in Portland, Maine, exchanged in one day-long session over scotch, red wine, beer, cigarettes and eventually coffee.  Interspersed between the dozen or so fascinating tales of hair-rising and humorous episodes on board various boats, Greenlaw inserts what she calls \\"Bar Snacks,\\" interesting tidbits regarding the fisherman's life, such as 10 excuses why there's no fish, top 10 fishermen's lies, and how to hire a crew.  In addition to herself, there are three other storytellers:  Alden, her fishing mentor, and George and Tommy, two guys that probably shouldn't be, but are life-long commercial fishermen.  By the end of the evening, they are our friends, too, as Greenlaw paints them for us as the colorful characters they indeed are.  Linda also says at one point that she is thinking of writing a seagoing epic fictional tale.  Well, get to it.  I can't wait to read it.  And the offer stands.  I don't ask many ladies out for a drink, well that's not exactly true, but I sure would like to tip a few with you.	2005-02-23
US	52884931	R11G3FZKJBJUI7	0618154620	646675025	The Way West	Books	5	71	72	N	Y	As good as the original, a masterpiece of literature.	Rarely is a sequel, whether it be a movie or book, as good as the original.  But, rest assured that this is not the case of  \\"The Way West,\\" A.B. Guthrie's follow-up to \\"The Big Sky,\\" and the second of six books in The Big Sky series.  How good are these two volumes?  Well, the first has been designated \\"the best novel of the American West\\" by the Western Literature Association.  \\"The Way West\\" won the Pulitzer Price for fiction in 1950.  Which is the better book?  Impossible to tell, they're almost like two books in one.  \\"The Way West\\" begins where \\"The Big Sky\\" ends in 1846 as Dick Summers, a true mountain man introduced in the original, is living as a farmer in Missouri.  His sickly wife has just died and he is urgently asked to be the guide for a wagon train departing from Independence to Fort Vancouver in Oregon.  What follows next are months of exciting adventures among the Indians, rattlesnakes, stampeding buffalo, raging rivers, and other obstacles they have to surmount in the quest to the west.  The pacing of \\"The Way West\\" is similar to \\"The Big Sky.\\"  Quiet passages wherein we get to really know the many principal characters of the book interspersed with tension filled episodes of action.  The details of the trek, the dialogue, the characters are so real that this book compels the reader to keep turning pages late into the night.  It's amazing to discover and reflect on what these settlers went through to expand our country from sea to sea.  I can't say enough good things about these two books, and once I take a breather, I'll move on to the next book in the series.	2005-02-11
US	52884931	R15DF7NWRU87RS	0618154639	7737472	The Big Sky	Books	5	24	25	N	Y	Designated "The best novel of the American West"	What Larry McMurty's \\"Lonesome Dove\\" is to the cowboy of the old west, A.B. Guthrie's \\"The Big Sky\\" is to the mountain men of roughly the same period.  \\"Lonesome Dove\\" gives us August McCrae and W.F. Call; \\"The Big Sky\\" introduces us to Boone Caudhill, Jim Deakins, and Dick Summers.  These are magical characters, brought to three-dimensional life by the skills of the respective authors.  The pacing of \\"The Big Sky\\" is right on.  Guthrie gives us a few pages of quiet introspection as we get to know the heart and soul of his creations, and then hints of danger to follow building extreme foreboding of trouble ahead.  This is followed by high-tension, full-fisted action as the individual conflicts are met head-on; then comes another quiet period to allow us to catch our breath.  This is not a shoot-em-up Western, but a realistic portrayal of life and times of 1830 to 1843 in the American northwest written for the mature reader.  In fact, it is realistic to a surprising degree.  No more to be said about that, because I don't wish to destroy your delight of discovery.  \\"The Big Sky\\" is the first in a series of six books in the so-called \\"Big Sky series.\\"  This first book has been designated \\"the best novel of the American West\\" by the Western Literature Association.  The sequel, \\"The Way West,\\" won the Pulitzer Prize.  I can't wait to read it; in fact I began immediately following the last page of the first book.	2005-01-14
US	52884931	R2SM46VERB7DZC	0815607415	298526339	The Extraordinary Adirondack Journey of Clarence Petty: Wilderness Guide, Pilot, and Conservationist	Books	2	8	10	N	N	An amazing subject given short shrift.	Let me begin with my biggest complaint regarding this book:  No map of the Adirondack Park.  Although this book purports to be the biography of Clarence Petty, it is a sketchy bio at best with the principal focus on the creation of this wilderness area in upper New York State.  And yet, although this book constantly gives names of places and sections of the Park, not one map to help the reader better understand the forces at work here.  I subtract two rating stars right off the top for this oversight.  There is a map, a sketch actually, of a few square miles of the area in which Clarence grew up and currently lives.  This brings me to my second complaint.  Throughout the book, author Christopher Angus states that Clarence lived/lives in Coreys.  But, if you look at the sketch in the book and then go to other resources, you find out that that is not true.  Clarence's home is on Coreys Road.  The hamlet of Coreys is another place entirely, approximately 20 miles to the north, and Coreys Road goes nowhere near Coreys.  The book is pretty much a straightforward, simple and unstylistic narrative with appropriate quotes from individuals and other printed sources.  One big bonus:  Terrific photographs of the people involved in their natural setting.  Yet, when I was done with the book, I had the sensation that I knew more than was necessary about the politics of the park, and precious little about Mr. Petty.  Of course, his life revolved to such a great extent around the Adirondacks, that both had to be included.  But, there is so much more to Clarence.  For instance, no other place on earth inspired him to the extent these mountains did, except Alaska.  We are told that he made more than half a dozen trips there, but only one is given any exposure, and then only cursorily.  I would have liked to learn more about the other trips and what he found there that so moved him.  We are told that he was an active letter writer promoting his thoughts on the environment.  We get pieces of a letter or two, but not enough to give us an impression of the man.  Several well-chosen letters in their entirety would have helped here.  We are told he was often on the opposite side of environmental arguments with his older brother Bill, but there's very little evidence given to support that.  More comments by both brothers on these debates would have been interesting and thought provoking.  Further, except for environmental topics, we get precious little of the philosophy of this Adirondack original who is still driving at 99, who stopped giving pilot instructions at 94, who, for most of the year, lives by himself in the middle of this wilderness.  I would have thought the author would have at least asked this man, who is only months away from becoming a centenarian, to what does he attribute his long, vigorous life?  Good genes; an exceptionally active body and mind; a special diet; not smoking; not drinking?  Or on that one occasion when he chose to imbibe, what thoughts and sensations flooded his mind?  What lessons has he learned from life that he wants to impart to those coming after him?  Clarence Petty is a remarkable human being, a pioneering environmentalist, activist, and aviator.  You'll get the flavor of this man from this book, but not his essence.  We need the \\"Bam!\\"ces of a letter or two, but not enough to give us an impression of the man.  Several well-chosen letters in their entirety would have helped here.  We are told he was often on the opposite side of environmental arguments with his older brother Bill, but there's very little evidence given to support that.  More comments by both brothers on these debates would have been interesting and thought provoking.  Further, except for environmental topics, we get precious little of the philosophy of this Adirondack original who is still driving at 99, who stopped giving pilot instructions at 94, who, for most of the year, lives by himself in the middle of this wilderness.  I would have thought the author would have at least asked this man, who is only months away from becoming a centenarian, to what does he attribute his long, vigorous life?  Good genes; an exceptionally active body and mind; a special diet; not smoking; not drinking?  Or on that one occasion when he chose to imbibe, what thoughts and sensations flooded his mind?  What lessons has he learned from life that he wants to impart to those coming after him?  Clarence Petty is a remarkable human being, a pioneering environmentalist, activist, and aviator.  You'll get the flavor of this man from this book, but not his essence.  We need the \\"Bam!\\"	2004-12-28
US	52884931	R2MB3CWI5QGU8J	0393050572	948966865	Will in the World: How Shakespeare Became Shakespeare	Books	5	6	7	N	N	An important resource for Shakespear lovers.	I am amazed that this scholarly tome on William Shakespeare, based mostly on speculation and very little fact, has become a huge best seller.  But, quality will out, and this is a very well written hypothesis on the life of Shakespeare and where he got the inspiration for his great plays and sonnets.  Although author Greenblatt touches on most of the works of the Bard, he focuses on The Merchant of Venice, Hamlet, and Macbeth plus the sonnets.  I have performed in twelve of  Shakespeare's plays, and I wish I had this book as a partial reference.  For example, I played Polonius in Hamlet, and in one of his speeches he is reading a letter to Hamlet's mother and stepfather, a letter Hamlet had written to Polonius' daughter Ophelia.  In the middle of the letter is the phrase \\"the most beatified Ophelia.\\"  Polonius breaks off from the reading to inject \\"'beatified' is a vile phrase.\\"  What this meant puzzled me, but from this book I learn that it was Shakespeare making a personal aside to another playwright, Robert Greene, who had attacked him with the charge that he was \\"an upstart Crow, beautified with our feathers.\\"  As Kenny Banyon would say, \\"This is gold, Jerry, gold!\\"  As I said, and author Greenblatt repeatedly admits, many of his assertions are based on suppositions, but they are logical and he doesn't go overboard with wild, sweeping conclusions.  Except, it seems to me, in one instance: he ties his son Hamnet into phases of his character Hamlet.  Greenblatt's reasoning:  Hamnet had recently died before Shakespeare began writing this tragedy plus the fact that Hamnet was named after his neighbor Hamnet Stabler, whose name had erroneously appeared in certain Stafford records as Hamlet.  Greenblatt also asserts that in that day, the names Hamlet and Hamnet were interchangeable.  Greenblatt states that Shakespeare must have thought of his son every time he wrote the name Hamlet.  Although Greenblatt doesn't explicitly say so, the name Hamlet must have come from Amleth, which appeared in the medieval telling of Hamlet's saga and led to another version of Hamlet with which Shakespeare was familiar before writing his own version.  It seems that Shakespeare had few original thoughts concerning plots and characters; they were all built on pervious writings or personal experiences.  He did, however, have the innate ability to carve his creations with more talent than anyone before or since.  In a revelation to me, according to Greenblatt most of Shakespeare's sonnets were love poems written to a man; the Bard was apparently at least bisexual, which was not considered out of the ordinary at the time.  In fact, Greenblatt does a superb job of capturing time and place during the Elizabethan period and the early reign of King James I in which Shakespeare worked and lived, to the point that some of the reading is a little tough going with his explicit details of torture, cruelty to animals, and religious persecution.  This book will command an honored place on my reference shelves from here forward.leth, which appeared in the medieval telling of Hamlet's saga and led to another version of Hamlet with which Shakespeare was familiar before writing his own version.  It seems that Shakespeare had few original thoughts concerning plots and characters; they were all built on pervious writings or personal experiences.  He did, however, have the innate ability to carve his creations with more talent than anyone before or since.  In a revelation to me, according to Greenblatt most of Shakespeare's sonnets were love poems written to a man; the Bard was apparently at least bisexual, which was not considered out of the ordinary at the time.  In fact, Greenblatt does a superb job of capturing time and place during the Elizabethan period and the early reign of King James I in which Shakespeare worked and lived, to the point that some of the reading is a little tough going with his explicit details of torture, cruelty to animals, and religious persecution.  This book will command an honored place on my reference shelves from here forward.	2004-12-17
US	52884931	R29ESK5AJAS5TN	1596541393	324895617	12 the Mystic Mullah and Red Snow	Books	2	3	3	N	N	Action that's over the top and non-stop.  Whew!	As a fan of Doc Savage, I consider myself fortunate to have collected all of the Bantam Paperback reprints of the original 181 Doc Savage Magazines. Written by Lester Dent, under the pen name of Kenneth Robeson, the pulp magazine was published as a monthly beginning in 1933 to 1949. (For the last few years it was a quarterly.) In 1964, Bantam began their series of paperbacks, which ran for 26 years. As time allows, I will give brief descriptions/reviews of the entire series. Previously, when reviewing the book The Lost Oasis, #6 in the series, I mentioned that most of the action was in the last third of the book.  In The Mystic Mullah, #9 in the Bantam Series, creator Robeson starts the action immediately and keeps it up nearly non-stop.  In fact, the constant, on-going battle, mostly with guns, seems almost beyond the descriptive powers of Robeson.  At times, it is a complicated mess of duplication that becomes tiring to wade through.  What kept me reading was to learn what was causing the green, fog-like snakes that caused severe burning to everyone they touched, ending in each of the victims dying with a broken neck.  Similarly I wanted to know what was causing the green apparition known as the Mystic Mullah:  an Oriental, green head, floating in space as it commanded its nefarious troops.  Although the villains in the series seem other-wordly at times, Robeson always gives us a logical explanation in the resolution, and I was curious as to how he would explain these green monstrosities.  The action begins in New York City, and following gun battles on the streets of Manhattan, at an abandoned factory, at a closed-for-the-season amusement park in New Jersey and a condemned Yacht Club on the Hudson River, the gunplay and mysterious green fog-like beings take flight, followed by Doc, to Russia's Siberia where Doc is jailed for spying.  Then the chase is off to Tanan, a fictitious country somewhere in Southeast Asia.  Throughout the book, at least two, sometimes all, of Doc's assistants are in dire straits.  This is adventure packed pulp fiction, but nowhere near the best of the series., of Doc's assistants are in dire straits.  This is adventure packed pulp fiction, but nowhere near the best of the series.	2004-11-28
US	52884931	R3Q66ONT4PPR7X	076790592X	725864791	Tuesdays with Morrie: An Old Man, a Young Man, and Life's Greatest Lesson	Books	1	11	16	N	N	As light as a feather with little substance.	I had heard of this book and knew there was a movie starring Jack Lemon as Morrie, but I had no desire to read it until I read Albom's latest book, \\"The Five People You Meet in Heaven.\\"  I was charmed by the latter, and thought \\"Tuesday's With Morrie\\" might have the same affect.  Well, I am glad I read \\"Five People\\" first, because if I had read \\"Morrie\\" first, I never would have wanted to read another book by Albom and would have missed \\"Five People.\\"  Yes, the text is moving, but it seems to me to be in a manipulative way.  Album had 14 Tuesday sessions with Morrie, and yes, the last two were sparse because of Morrie's rapidly approaching death.  But out of the other 12 - most of which were tape recorded - it seems that Albom would have gotten more material from his former teacher to give us a book longer than 190 short pages filled with lots of white space.  Hopefully, he took more notes in class than he took here.  It is like Albom is only feeding us lines from these 14 meetings that he knows will tug at our heartstrings.  It is like eating the frosting on the cake and leaving the rest behind.  Sugary philosophy from a simple book.  Lightweight at best.	2004-11-28
US	52884931	R2A14T8ZRKVU87	1594200181	829993811	Politics: Observations and Arguments, 1966-2004	Books	1	3	52	N	N	Beware!	I ventured into this book knowing full well that Hertzberg is what we Conservatives call a bleeding-heart Liberal.  But, as a former executive secretary of the Conservative Party, I enjoy a good political debate, and I was aware of Hertzberg's strong reputation as a writer.  The book began with some innocuous comments on music and Woodstock.  Then came a long essay on the strengths and weaknesses of Jimmy Carter.  Surprise!  I found I agreed with much of what Hertzberg had to say.  But then came a strongly biased diatribe on my main man Ronald Reagan.  This mean spirited attack on one of the greatest Presidents who ever served was more than I could stomach.  I oppose book burning, but this tome is a strong counter-argument.  No matter how bad I find a book, I usually manage to finish it.  This is one of only a handful of exceptions.	2004-11-16
US	52884931	RHGCYYPH228BL	0786868716	891971809	The Five People You Meet In Heaven	Books	5	1	1	N	N	An astounding, emotional, compelling rollercoaster ride.	This is a phenomenal book, whose only shortcoming might be due to its tremendous strength.  Author Mitch Albom has cemented his reputation as a compelling story-teller as he creates a fantasy wherein everyone who dies meets five people in Heaven who explain the meaning of the individual's life.  These five people may be known to the deceased, or not, but they each have a connection with the person who has passed on.  In this case, it is Eddie, a crippled war veteran who lives out his life as a carnival maintenance worker, a life he believes he wasted.  Of the five people Eddie meets, he only knows two, but all five add to his understanding of the value of his life.  It would be unfair for me to tell you who the five are, but you will certainly be surprised by the fifth.  Knowing in advance who the five are and what they have to tell Eddie would ruin the book for most readers, therefore I am at a loss to understand why or how they can make this story into a movie, which is now in the planning stages.  I know that I, after reading this book, would have no interest in seeing the movie.  It would seem the only way they could make the movie interesting to those who have read the book would be to create a new person to meet another five people in Heaven.  This could be done, because the concept that Albom has invented of everyone meeting five people as they enter Heaven could lead to a whole series of similar tales.  Albom does such a terrific job making the fable seem so real and keeping the emotions at a very high level, that I was let down by the suddenness of the ending.  I expected more, though I don't have any idea what that more could be.  Eddie's life is resolved, so it isn't that.  Maybe I was looking for a resolution to my own existence or a moral from this fable.  Maybe I just didn't want this short book to end.	2004-11-08
US	52884931	R1UEDYYM7TWO4	0316738867	368477948	Why Sinatra Matters	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Oh, if only it were longer.	As an ex oldies rock and roll disc jockey who managed to squeeze two or three Sinatra tunes in every week, I looked forward to reading this book, especially since it was written by one of my favorite chroniclers of the American passing scene.  I was not disappointed.  In this little book, or elongated essay, Pete Hamill makes a compelling case for the value of Frank Sinatra to the America psyche.  He contends that Sinatra matters because he created the American male image of being tough, yet at the same time tender.  He also states that Frank matters because of his music, grounded in loneliness, yet still optimistic.  I also learned something.  My world has often been surrounded by those of Italian heritage, and Hamill has made me understand them better.  First, he relates the beginning of the awareness of the Italian Mob/Mafia in our country.  He claims the myth began in 1891 when eleven Italian immigrants were accused of killing a corrupt police superintendent in New Orleans.  Although all 11 were found innocent, a mob of several thousand people, roused to rabble by incendiary newspaper articles, attacked the jail where the men were waiting release, and killed them all.  (This is another glaring incident that was never mentioned in my America-is-never-wrong high school or college history lessons.)  Hamill does indeed say the mob/Mafia was a factor in America, but came to fruition, decades after the New Orleans incident, through the stupidity of our country's prohibition.  He also explains why Italians call themselves Genoese or Sicilians, not Italians.  It's because there really was no united Italy until 1871.  Instead of the country, an immigrant thought of his region of birth as his homeland.  Hamill spends a good deal of time pointing up the importance of Sinatra's Italian background.  He points to pre-war 1940 when Mayor LaGuardia, Yankee Centerfielder Joe Dimaggio, and Frank, each of Italian ancestry, were three of the most beloved individuals in the country.  In this work, Hamill discusses Frank's childhood, the immense impression of Bing Crosby, Frank's big band years, his beginnings as a solo vocalist, his career collapse coinciding with his marriage to Ava Gardner and the hatred many returning soldiers felt toward the 4-F crooner, concluding with his artistic rebirth beginning with his Oscar winning role in \\"From Here to Eternity.\\"  Much of Hamill's insight is culled from conversations he had with the singer during the 1970s and `80s, although there are a couple of times he delves deep into Sinatra's head as a youth and I wondered, \\"How could he ever know that?\\"  But, except for those few lapses, this is a right-on book about one of the world's greatest entertainers.  At the end of the book, Hamill proposes a list of must-have Sinatra recordings, must-see Sinatra movies, and a bibliography of books dealing with Sinatra and his era.  I have all the recordings, seen all the movies, but Hamill has inspired me to read some of the books.  (But not Kitty Kelley's character assassination, thank you very much.)y.  In this work, Hamill discusses Frank's childhood, the immense impression of Bing Crosby, Frank's big band years, his beginnings as a solo vocalist, his career collapse coinciding with his marriage to Ava Gardner and the hatred many returning soldiers felt toward the 4-F crooner, concluding with his artistic rebirth beginning with his Oscar winning role in \\"From Here to Eternity.\\"  Much of Hamill's insight is culled from conversations he had with the singer during the 1970s and `80s, although there are a couple of times he delves deep into Sinatra's head as a youth and I wondered, \\"How could he ever know that?\\"   But, except for those few lapses, this is a right-on book about one of the world's greatest entertainers.  At the end of the book, Hamill proposes a list of must-have Sinatra recordings, must-see Sinatra movies, and a bibliography of books dealing with Sinatra and his era.  I have all the recordings, seen all the movies, but Hamill has inspired me to read some of the books.  (But not Kitty Kelley's character assassination, thank you very much.)	2004-11-04
US	52884931	R2H5BU1YY8WM6X	055306357X	257587492	The Lost Oasis	Books	3	1	2	N	N	Action delayed, but once it comes, it's a rush.	As a fan of Doc Savage, I consider myself fortunate to have collected all of the Bantam Paperback reprints of the original 181 Doc Savage Magazines. Written by Lester Dent, under the pen name of Kenneth Robeson, the pulp magazine was published as a monthly beginning in 1933 to 1949. (For the last few years it was a quarterly.) In 1964, Bantam began their series of paperbacks, which ran for 26 years. As time allows, I will give brief descriptions/reviews of the entire series. In The lost Oasis, #6 in the Bantam Series, creator Robeson keeps most of the suspense and action for the last one-third of the book.  This is unlike most of the other tales, where action is maintained throughout, usually in the guise of one or more of Doc's team of adventurers in life-threatening peril.  This adventure begins in New York and continues, via blimp, across the Atlantic to darkest Africa and an oasis surrounded by carnivorous plants and poisonous snakes.  It all deals with the discovery of one of the world's wealthiest diamond mines, vampire bats that have been bred to produce venom, and enforced slavery.  And, as usual, there's a beautiful woman who falls for the stoic Doc.  The Man of Bronze and his five assistants liberally use their crime-fighting inventions battling overwhelming odds.  Even though most of the action is saved for the latter part of the book, once it comes, it comes in great gobs. The writing is true pulp fiction: fast, simple, direct, and Robeson does his usually fine job of making everything seem plausible.	2004-11-02
US	52884931	R3SL5GO3RBNPY1	0446606251	400570522	Snow in August	Books	4	8	10	N	N	Read it and decide for yourself	I've thought a lot about the ending of \\"Snow in August,\\" and I've come away with mixed feelings.  Many reviewers have commented on the last forty pages, and I have to admit it is not the way I would have liked the book to end.  But it is Hamill's story to write the way he wants, and I have to concede that he set this ending up during the course of the book.  The ending didn't come out of nowhere, and I guess you'll have to read the book to decide for yourself.  But it will be worth it, because before we get to the conclusion you'll discover some of the most moving story-telling I have ever experienced.  Hamill, probably relying on experiences of his own youth, does an excellent job of setting up his cast of Brooklyn characters:  the Devlin family, mother and son and deceased father, the Rabbi, the Catholic parish members, Frankie McCarthy and his gang of thugs, the Falcons.  The terror he builds is almost unbearable at times - the scenes of beating and torture are gut-wrenching.  I found reading this book an emotional experience like no other.  Even the final tableau of this book was very moving.  The growth in friendship between the young teen Michael Devlin and Rabbi Hirsch is exceptionally well developed through their mutual love of history, languages, and the Brooklyn Dodgers during the rookie season of Jackie Robinson.  As I read about this unlikely duo, I kept thinking of the relationship between Huck Finn and the runaway slave Jim.  There are haunting sections of this book that will remain with me for a long time.  In fact, I think this would make an excellent movie.	2004-10-28
US	52884931	R3PNEDHLHK2HNP	0425192733	994558302	Portrait Of A Killer: Jack The Ripper Case Closed	Books	1	18	27	N	N	An absolute waste of paper	If the system allowed, I would give this book zero stars, but I guess I could consider the mandatory one star for spelling, the only redeeming factor in this book.  And what makes this book even worse is that the author, Patricia Cornwell, has proven many times over that she can do better.  After all, she is a respected, very popular mystery writer.  However, there is no mystery in this book.  On page two she names her suspected Jack the Ripper to be Walter Richard Sickert, a fairly famous English impressionist/modernist artist who died in 1942.  Today his works hang in many museums, galleries, and private collections.  Sickert has long been suspected by many to be involved in the Ripper crimes.  In fact, it was a Deputy Assistant Commissioner of Scotland Yard who suggested Sickert to Cornwell during a tour of the Yard.  In 1976, Stephen Knight's \\"Jack the Ripper:  The Final Solution\\" says Sickert was an accomplice in the Ripper murders.  In 1990, Jean Overton Fuller states in \\"Sickert and the Ripper Crimes\\" that Sickert was the Ripper not just an accomplice.  So, Cornwell is rehashing old theories, theories that have been debunked by criminologists who have made a career of studying Ripper. And she does it badly.  There is no organization to this book.  It is as if her publisher said the book is due next week, so she typed up her notes as she had compiled them haphazardly and submitted that as her manuscript.  There is no beginning, middle, or end, just a hodgepodge of unconnected material.  It would have been much better if she had described her search for the killer (without predetermining who the killer was and setting out to make the facts fit the crime) and then taken us with her as her case developed.  When you boil it down, her proof lies in similar handwritings from Sickert and Ripper letters (although she admits she doesn't know which of the latter are real or bogus), watermarks on some known Sickert stationary that matches the Ripper letters (yet she admits the watermarks were common), and the fact that Sickert may have had a deformed (...) which would have prohibited sexual relations. (But she can't prove that this deformity actually existed.  In fact, she once says he may have fathered a child.)  Constantly she backs her case with statements such as \\"I can't prove Sickert was there...but I can't prove he wasn't, either \\" or \\"I can't prove Sickert did this...but I can't prove he didn't.\\"  She talks about similarities in handwriting, yet there is a point criteria that is a legal requirement and she never uses it to back her accusations.  I suspect it is because the documents wouldn't pass the test.  Often she goes on a several page diatribe about the lack of scientific analysis at the time of the Ripper murders.  That's the way it was, get over it already.  If Ms. Cornwell had taken her so-called proof to any district attorney, he would refuse to take it to a grand jury.  It doesn't stand up.  Don't waste your money on this book.  Buy one of her fine Dr. Kay Scarpetta books instead.ts the watermarks were common), and the fact that Sickert may have had a deformed (...) which would have prohibited sexual relations. (But she can't prove that this deformity actually existed.  In fact, she once says he may have fathered a child.)  Constantly she backs her case with statements such as \\"I can't prove Sickert was there...but I can't prove he wasn't, either \\" or \\"I can't prove Sickert did this...but I can't prove he didn't.\\"  She talks about similarities in handwriting, yet there is a point criteria that is a legal requirement and she never uses it to back her accusations.  I suspect it is because the documents wouldn't pass the test.  Often she goes on a several page diatribe about the lack of scientific analysis at the time of the Ripper murders.  That's the way it was, get over it already.   If Ms. Cornwell had taken her so-called proof to any district attorney, he would refuse to take it to a grand jury.  It doesn't stand up.  Don't waste your money on this book.  Buy one of her fine Dr. Kay Scarpetta books instead.	2004-10-19
US	52884931	R2FWL3ESJ80DYH	1592280137	896740145	Living with Chickens: Everything You Need to Know to Raise Your Own Backyard Flock	Books	5	32	34	N	N	Finger lickin' good!	So, you've decided to put in a couple of layers and grow your own eggs.  You need to buy this book.  From coop to care from breed to feed, author Jay Rossier gives you all the detailed information you need to know to become a successful Old MacDonald.  His breezy insights into raising chickens for fun and profit is a delight to read.  But, you say you live in a railroad apartment on the lower East Side of Manhattan.  Then get this book for the terrific photographs by Geoff Hansen.  You'll never look at a chicken the same way again.  In fact, this book might inspire you to leave the big city for a small piece of land in New Jersey.  Now, that's a book!	2004-10-14
US	52884931	R3O9WL35N4WBJQ	0316735698	537841158	Forever: A Novel	Books	3	9	10	N	N	He set too ambitious a task	The first 124 pages of this novel contain some of the most powerful writing I have ever experienced.  Unfortunately, I found it downhill after that.  In those initial pages, we meet Cormac O'Connor, an Irish lad with a Jewish mother and Celtic father, his horse Thunder and dog Bran in Ireland of the 1730s.  By the end of the section he has lost all and travels to New York City to fulfill a duty of blood:  to kill the man and all of his male offspring who brought about his family's destruction.  After arriving in New York, Cormac's good deeds toward an African shaman earn him the gift/curse of everlasting life with one condition:  he must never leave the island of Manhattan, otherwise he will die.  His death will be considered a suicide and he won't be able to enter the Otherworld (the Celtic version of heaven).  Cormac is given one opportunity for eternal rest:  If he ever feels world weary he is to find a woman with special spiral markings.  He will need to make love to her in a cave and then he will be able to pass on to the Otherworld and be reunited with his family.  After Hamill sets up the situation, he condenses over 200 years of Cormac's life in less than 250 pages.  It is an impossible task.  We loose so much of Cormac's experience as Hamill quickly moves the story along, except for a seemingly endless experience with Boss Tweed and life in a house of prostitution. This condensation of so many years into so few pages weakens the strength of the book, especially in comparison with the beginning.  The tale comes to a climax with the 9/11 attack on America.  I'm not giving anything away here; it's foretold on the jacket cover.  Why did the publisher do that?  I am sick of reading books which have no regard for the reader and give away the climax before the first page.  This is just another rotten example.  And then, when the attack finally comes, Hamill is at a loss to convey the emotion, the impact of this event -- maybe no writer alive could capture the moment.  And then he ends the book with a sugar-coated finish.  What a disappointment.  Pete Hamill is one of America's greatest chroniclers of the passing scene.  His book, \\"Loving Women,\\" is in my top five.  But, this book which begins with such promise fizzles out and leaves an empty feeling of abandonment by the author.nt.  And then he ends the book with a sugar-coated finish.  What a disappointment.  Pete Hamill is one of America's greatest chroniclers of the passing scene.  His book, \\"Loving Women,\\" is in my top five.  But, this book which begins with such promise fizzles out and leaves an empty feeling of abandonment by the author.	2004-10-08
US	52884931	R25TKOKLHJFGAE	0142437174	474714897	The Adventures of Huckleberry Finn (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	America's Fiction Masterpiece revisited	I had just finished reading the new biographical book \\"Grant and Twain\\" by Mark Perry, in which Perry claims that Twain put his unfinished masterpiece on the shelf for years because he was trapped by the logic of what he had written.  Perry claims that Twain was stumped at the point in his story (at the end of Chapter 16) when Huck and escaped slave Jim had missed in the night their connection north, via the Ohio River at Cairo, and were forced to continue south on the Mississippi River.  Twain's conundrum:  Why would Jim go south to get free?  According to Perry, it was Twain's friendship with the former Union General and President that solved this writer's block and led to the creation of America's greatest work of fiction.  Perry tells us that it was because Ulysses Grant went south to win the Civil War, that Twain determined it would be possible for Jim to go south to win his freedom.  It's impossible to tell from the book that such a problem existed for Twain.  The book is seamless in it's beatiful telling of remarkable adventures.  \\"Huckleberry Finn,\\" a gift to me when I was eight, was the first book I ever owned.  I read it then and again when it was required in school (Lake Placid, New York, where the \\"n\\" word didn't make this literary classic verboten).  I am glad I revisited it a third time, not only for the humor but for the beauty of the language Twain so perfectly captured.  True, it was written to be a \\"boy's book,\\" but it's at a level to appeal to adults as well.  If you have read it in the past, maybe it is time for a revisit.	2004-09-20
US	52884931	R247MAT3YNP54U	B00005XA86	460025257	Brand of the Werewolf (A Doc Savage Adventure #5)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	The mystery holds until the last few pages	As a fan of Doc Savage, I consider myself fortunate to have collected all of the Bantam Paperback reprints of the original 181 Doc Savage Magazines.  Written by Lester Dent, under the pen name of Kenneth Robeson, the pulp magazine was published as a monthly beginning in 1933 to 1949.  (For the last few years it was a quarterly.)  In 1964, Bantam began their series of paperbacks, which ran for 26 years.  As time allows, I will give brief descriptions/reviews of the entire series.  In Brand of the Werewolf, #5 in the Bantam Series, Doc and his five assistants go on vacation to the western shores of Canada, where Doc's Uncle Alex owns a huge wildlife refuge.  The Uncle has been murdered before the book begins, killed by a mysterious sleep which mirrors a sudden heart attack.  These sleeping episodes continue, each one accompanied by a smudge of the face of a werewolf left at the scene.  The mystery involves an ivory cube containing a map inside which shows the location of a shipwreaked galleon filled with lost treasure.  The Doc Savage books are not politically correct, and in this one, the insulted race is the Spanish, those \\"swarthy-looking fellows.\\"  This is also the book that introduces Doc's beautiful bronze cousin, Pat, daughter of the late Alex.  She becomes one of Doc's assistants in a number of future adventures.  The writing is true pulp fiction:  fast, simple, direct with an occasional memorable line such as:  \\"A fat, milky bag of a moon leaked its beams.\\"	2004-09-13
US	52884931	RJDAH2QETHG7D	0679642730	342199313	Grant and Twain: The Story of a Friendship That Changed America	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Changed America?  I think not.	This book sports one of the most pretentious subtitles I have ever encountered.  \\"The Story of a Friendship That Changed America.\\"  Beyond the title, Perry doesn't make much of a case to support it.  What he does say, is that from these two men emerged the greatest non-fiction book \\"Grant's Memoirs\\" and the greatest fiction book \\"Huckleberry Finn\\" this country has ever produced.  Let's not argue the merits of these two books, but let's look at the facts as Perry presents them.  Grant was close to signing a book deal with a publisher other than Twain, when Twain convinced him to go with his firm.  But, Twain had very little to do with the actually writing of Grant's work.  It would probably have been done anyway, with the same high quality, if Grant had chosen to honor his unwritten agreement with the initial publisher.  So, their friendship really had nothing to do with the creativity displayed in Grant's book.  As regards Huckleberry Finn, Perry tells us that Twain had stopped writing the book at the point where Huck and Jim were going into the south.  He had determined that was the direction they should go, but couldn't rationalize why, because going south certainly would have made Jim's quest for freedom almost impossible.  Therefore, Twain shelved the book with what seemed an insurmountable problem.  Then Perry surmises, with very little evidence to back it up, that Twain came to the resolution of his quandry by analyzing Grant's military victories when he pressed southward to win the war, and so concluded that Huck and Jim could go south to win freedom.  And thus, \\"Huckleberry Finn\\" was finished. Okay, enough about the over-stated title.  As for the book itself, it is a very interesting tale of the meeting and friendship of these two men, of the struggle Grant bravely fought while facing dehibilitating and eventually life-consuming throat cancer while trying to write his book.  To write the book was crucial, because it was the only financial security he could offer his family after his post-President business interest went bust.  So, a good deal of the book involves the Grant death watch.  Perry does an excellent job creating the flavor of the time and place, presenting the historical aspects we need to fully understand the lives of these two men, and introducing a wealth of personalities that surrounded their lives.  It is a well organized book, and I highly recommend it.  Just don't judge the book by its title.ffer his family after his post-President business interest went bust.  So, a good deal of the book involves the Grant death watch.  Perry does an excellent job creating the flavor of the time and place, presenting the historical aspects we need to fully understand the lives of these two men, and introducing a wealth of personalities that surrounded their lives.  It is a well organized book, and I highly recommend it.  Just don't judge the book by its title.	2004-09-02
US	52884931	RVKQ6LD76B2KC	1574090852	959678756	Voyage: A Novel of 1896	Books	4	22	23	N	N	An epic; He should have written more.	While reading this huge book, it is easy to imagine Sterling doing the research.  First, he would select the year for his opus.  1896 would seem like a good choice, because it was at the end of the tall ships when steam was supplanting sail, and Hayden was a lover of the ships (see his only other book, his autobiography: Wanderer).  After he selected the year, he would go to a really good library and start reading the daily newspapers for 1896, jotting down events, dates, names and places.  Then having compiled all his data, he would begin to compose this bestselling novel.  The main focus of the book is the maiden voyage of \\"Neptune's Car\\" from Maine around the Horn to San Francisco.  He has peopled the crew with very interesting and compelling characters, from the hard-driving, yet fair-minded Captain Irons Saul Pendelton, to the brutish first mate Otto Lassiter, to shipmates Harwar the Wrecker, Carmack the Anarch, a cast-a-way plucked from a deserted isle, and the ship's lone passenger MacLeod.  Hayden takes the time to develop each of these characters and many others, providing them with a past, and a present, and no hope for the future.  As the trip progresses, we get to know each of them personally as we learn of the extraordinarily hard life of the seaman and the futile and dangerous attempts to unionize and improve their lot.  Meanwhile, we also follow another excursion:  The Neptune Car's owner, Banning Butler Blanchard, sends his daughter and her ne'er-do-well husband with other socialites of the era on a pleasure cruise to Japan to witness a total solar eclipse.  The juxtaposition of these two journeys gives an indepth look at the strong class distinctions of the day: the poor working stiff and the idle rich.  Meanwhile, Blanchard himself is involved in that year's heated Presidential conflict.  He goes to the Democratic Presidential convention in Chicago where the battle rages over whether America should use the gold or silver standard. Again, Hayden makes sure we understand all of the factors that lead to rioting in the streets and over-the-top rallies. And there are interesting sub-plots galore, each character driven, each fitting into the tapestry of the novel like tightly-fitting puzzle pieces.  Hayden's strong descriptive abilities make us feel part of every scene, whether it be in the forecastle, on a Hawaiian beach, or a crowded convention hall floor.  This is a two-fisted, hard drinking, passion-filled novel and makes me wish that Hayden had written other books.  Why only four stars?  The book leads us to an anticipated violent climax that just fizzles away on the very last pages.  But until then, I could not have asked for more.es sure we understand all of the factors that lead to rioting in the streets and over-the-top rallies. And there are interesting sub-plots galore, each character driven, each fitting into the tapestry of the novel like tightly-fitting puzzle pieces.  Hayden's strong descriptive abilities make us feel part of every scene, whether it be in the forecastle, on a Hawaiian beach, or a crowded convention hall floor.  This is a two-fisted, hard drinking, passion-filled novel and makes me wish that Hayden had written other books.  Why only four stars?  The book leads us to an anticipated violent climax that just fizzles away on the very last pages.  But until then, I could not have asked for more.	2004-09-01
US	52884931	RDMZ00KNHP7Q6	0451527631	315718149	Looking Backward (Signet Classics)	Books	2	5	11	N	N	It could have been a lot better	\\"Looking Backward\\" is considered a classic of its type: Utopian literature, which was popular from the sixteenth century into the beginning of the twentieth.  But of course, the vast majority of lives were lived in desperation then, and any escape into a better world was well received.  Bellamy was 31 when this book was published.  As the narrator, he relates his experience of being put into a hypnotic trance as a sleeping aid in 1887 only to be awakened 113 years later, sound of body and mind just as he was when he went to sleep.  But the world has changed to a completely socialistic system.  Bellamy goes into interminable explanations of how the new world operates.  His characters go into long winded, somewhat repetitive, explanations of all phases of this new order.  These tirades become brain numbing in their length and use of archaic words.  I believe it would have been much easier to take if he had made his explanations through dialogues instead of monologues.  And then his character goes out into the world of 2000 Boston.  But, what does he see that's new, different, and exciting?  We never find out, because he doesn't tell us.  In fact, the only new inventions he describes in the entire book are water fountains whose spray works as airconditioners in buildings, awnings hanging over the entire street to keep out rain, pasteboard credit cards, and music and sermons piped into the home through telephone wires.  Too bad he didn't talk with some creative visionaries about what the world might be like in the year 2000, and incorporate some of those concepts in his tale.  He says nothing about changes in fashions, transportation, or any other aspect of his new surroundings.  And there is a glaring error in his utopian world:  He does not take into account human nature.  He glosses this over by claiming that the new socialist order was so successful, that all humans immediately fell into step and laziness, jealousy and greed are no more.  As if that would happen. There is one thought in the entire book I found illuminating.  Paraphrasing here:  Credit can be compared with nothing else but the plight of a man building a house with dynamite for mortar.  With that, I agree.ere is one thought in the entire book I found illuminating.  Paraphrasing here:  Credit can be compared with nothing else but the plight of a man building a house with dynamite for mortar.  With that, I agree.	2004-08-31
US	52884931	R1ZWZ46P80P2TP	0425081737	178744976	Dancehall	Books	1	3	9	N	N	Couldn't get by the glaring error	The book begins with and then builds to the same climax:  An execution by electric chair in New York State in 1986.  The problem:  New York State executions were suspended from 1977 to 1995.  The author should have known this:  He was a former FBI agent and he lives in New York State, where pro and anti execution stances were hot political issues of the time.  Otherwise, the story is terrific with twists and turns that should keep the reader spellbound until the very end.  In fact, it's hard to elaborate on the plot without ruining the suprises within.  It's a well crafted tale and perfect beach reading.  But, everytime the author returns to discuss the state held executions, he looses me.  I became focused on this glaring error instead of the story he so expertly weaves.  Why didn't he set this story in a state that had executions?  Why didn't he set this story at a time when executions were allowed in New York State?  Why did he muddy the water with a tale based around a total impossibility?  If you can get by this editorial faux pas, then this is a story I would give four stars.  But, I couldn't get by it; it ruined for me what would have been a fine book.	2004-08-19
US	52884931	RUB7H2YMVC0HV	0375758607	30095290	The Facts of Life: and Other Dirty Jokes	Books	2	3	8	N	N	Willie can do no wrong, but this is close.	First, let me state emphatically that I am a huge Willie Nelson fan.  He is, by far, my favorite recording artist and I have seen him in concert three times.  That said, there is not much in this book to recommend it.  There are a few very funny jokes, although not that dirty.  There are dozens of simple, yet profound, song lyrics, mostly of his lesser known works.  As a reader, I would have preferred to hear Willie sing them.  Willie tells you he is in favor of the family farm, God, marijuana, less government.  He is against smoking.  He plays golf and jogs.  Everybody seems to be his best friend.  But, if you are a Willie fan, you already know that.  And there's the problem.  I didn't read anything about him I didn't already know.  Damn, I wish he would really get serious about writing an autobiography.  There is so much I would love to learn about Willie, but it's not here.  Save your money and buy another Willie CD.	2004-08-16
US	52884931	RCVTRV1SAL11N	0385312628	336749412	Polar Dream: The Heroic Saga of the First Solo Journey by a Woman and Her Dog to the Pole	Books	5	9	9	N	N	I can't believe she did the whole thing!	I am a big fan of stories of artic adventure, and this is one of the best.  In this day of snow mobiles and ATVs, we have a woman at 50 -- author Helen Thayer -- setting out to walk to the magnectic north pole, pulling her own sled and accompanied by an Inuit dog she had only known for a couple of days.  On her first day out, she suffers such terrible frostbite of her fingers they become almost useless.  (I would have called it quits right there.)  Then come polar bears -- one the world's most deadliest creatures.  And they keep on coming.  Some curious, some life-threatening.  But, she continues on her amazing journey, not for fame or fortune, but for scientific information for her program Adventure Classroom.  There are some fantastic photos included and very helpful maps.  Her writing style is breezy and compelling.  It's trimph of the human spirit and the bonding of a dog and companion.  What a terrific book.	2004-08-16
US	52884931	R3UAFXAAICYIUC	1885203209	857652389	Endless Highway	Books	2	13	32	N	N	I would have preferred a biography	Let's see.  David Carradine constantly faced bankruptcy, yet he claims to be continually working making films that very few of us have ever heard about, and earning $25,000 a day.  How can this be?  Could it be because he was an abuser of drugs and alcohol, that he was repeatedly finding a new love, leaving his former wife and remarrying, that he was buying and remodelling home after home, that he purchased high tech sports cars only to run them into the ground, that he owned dozens of expensive guitars, that he continually chose to live beyond his means, that his life was forever spinning wildly out of control? According to this book, the answer is no.  It is always somebody else's fault.  For example, he was married to the lovely Barbara Hershey and very much in love.  But the marriage dissolved.  It was John Barrymore, Jr.'s fault.  How can that be?  Because Barrymore introduced him to another woman knowing that David couldn't resist the temptation.  That's David's excuse.  Carradine claims to be a follower of the Shaolin philosophy, an important background of his TV persona Kwai Chang Caine.  I admit I don't know much about the philosophy, but I imagine it preaches being responsible for your own actions.  Carradine hasn't matured to the point where he can accept this responsibility.  But then again, the apple hasn't fallen far from the tree.  His dad, the wonderful character actor John, is another terrific example of being irresponsible.  Although the father worked steadily, he was constantly broke, often married, and shipped his son out to all types of foster home situations, most of them unpleasant.  The Carradines represent one of the great theatrical families of all time, so I found it amazing to read how illequipped they were to live life in an accountable fashion.  I purchased this book, because I am a fan of the old man. Unfortunately, there is not much flattering information about him here.  Actually, I became tired of reading the same mistakes being made over and over again by father and son, mistakes that were spreading into the next generation as well.  A better title would have been \\"Endless Cloverleaf,\\" because that's what I felt I was trapped on.  Speaking of \\"Endless,\\" Carradine peppers the text with lyrics of songs he has written.  This is pretty mundane stuff.  When will aspiring authors learn that lyrics are only half of a song, and sometimes the lesser half.  We can't appreciate what's created without hearing it put to music.  Without the music, it's not worth the ink.  Also, there's an \\"Endless\\" section duplicating his daily journal at the end of the book that ads nothing but pages.  This is a depressing and boring book.  Kind of like the young Carradine's acting abilities.e over and over again by father and son, mistakes that were spreading into the next generation as well.  A better title would have been \\"Endless Cloverleaf,\\" because that's what I felt I was trapped on.  Speaking of \\"Endless,\\" Carradine peppers the text with lyrics of songs he has written.  This is pretty mundane stuff.  When will aspiring authors learn that lyrics are only half of a song, and sometimes the lesser half.  We can't appreciate what's created without hearing it put to music.  Without the music, it's not worth the ink.  Also, there's an \\"Endless\\" section duplicating his daily journal at the end of the book that ads nothing but pages.  This is a depressing and boring book.  Kind of like the young Carradine's acting abilities.	2004-08-15
US	52884931	R1TNMAXSS4J6C8	0910020469	599824480	The View from Asgaard: Rockwell Kent's Adirondack Legacy	Books	4	4	5	N	N	A good introduction to a remarkable man	\\"The View from Asgaard\\" will serve as a good introduction to the life and art of political activist and nature lover Rockwell Kent.  Produced by the Adirondack Museum, the book focuses on the portion of his life spent living and working in this Northern New York area.  Indeed, this is only a part of his entire life, but in two essays written by the co-authors, this slim (less than 80 pages) catalogue offers enough discription of his socialist agenda plus some amazing examples of the work he created to allow us to begin to understand the man.  It could be argued, using the paintings, sketches, engravings, and lithographs in this book, that Kent is a much under-appreciated artist.  The book is supported by excellent research, including 20 pages listing his creations relating to the Adirondack area and giving the names and addresses of the institutions where they can be seen.  If you're lucky, there may be a Rockwell Kent in your own back yard.  There are four listed in the New York City area where I live, and this book has intrigued me to the point where I will check them out.	2004-08-15
US	52884931	R16XEIUZ80QITG	0679753338	499546549	Nobody's Fool	Books	4	2	5	N	N	Great, except for a few paragraphs.	Nobody's Fool starring Paul Newman, Bruce Willis, and Jessica Tandy is my personal favorite movie of all time, and I have seen thousands. Therefore, it was with some trepidation that I turned to the book. In fact, I had the book in my possession for several years before deciding to read it. In the past I have been disappointed with a book after seeing an especially good movie. Case in point, Paul Newman's Hud, which was based on Larry McMurtry's Horseman, Pass By. I enjoyed the movie, but the reading of the book watered down that enjoyment. One reason, all of the good lines that were uttered by other characters in the book, were given to Hud in the movie. Alone, both the movie and book were fine, but together they sabotaged each other. Fortunately, this is not the case with Nobody's Fool. The book is a fine companion piece to the movie. And I am glad I visited them in this order. If I had read the book first, I would have felt cheated by the movie, because so much background on the characters was left out. However, reading the book after seeing the movie heightened the enjoyment of the movie as I learned more about all of the characters and their motivations. Sully's football hero youth and his on-again off-again affair, Rub's stealing and dominating wife, and Clive, Jr's fiancee are just a few of the extra goodies in the book not in the movie. However, there was one scene in the book which was not in the movie and I wish it hadn't been in the book. That is when Carl Roebuck lashes out verbally at Sully and catalogues his many shortcomings. It seemed viscious, especially when other characters started agreeing with the assessment. It truly made Sully a sorry character, which does not come out in the film at all. In fact, Sully's depiction in the movie makes him one of my folk heroes. Other than this short passage, I found the book very enjoyable and like the movie hated to see it end.	2004-07-24
US	52884931	R1UQKCP2KBZFKV	0679743626	707805727	O Pioneers! (Vintage Classics)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Not what I expected	I vaguely remembered the name Willa Cather from my high school days, but I don't think I ever read anything by her.  Maybe a poem.  However, I decided to get one of her books after reading a recommendation in a recent National Geographic Magazine article on the Great Plains.  It stated that she was known for writing books on the Plains and of the hardships the farmers faced there especially during the dust storms.  But not in this book.  Cather stresses that hardwork and scientific farming will lead to prosperity, and in fact most of the farmers we meet are prosperous.  The book begins as we meet Alexandra, the next to youngest and only daughter of four offspring of an immigrant Swedish farming couple in Nebraska.  Alexandra is in town to bring back the doctor to treat her ailing father.  He refuses to come, because her father is hopelessly dying.  Her father, knowing his fate is sealed, calls the family together and beliving that his daughter is the only one with intelligence and grit, installs her as the head of the family and orders his three sons to follow her advice on all matters.  This is a unique situation, especially since the boys readily agree.  Beyond the situation, the subject of the book is totally different from what is expected from a female author at the turn of the 20th Century.  At that time, women wrote of well-to-do ladies whose lives revolved around parlors and social teas, not a common farmer.  The father's wisdom proves sound as the family amasses the largest acreage in the area and the respect of their Swede and Bohemian neighbors.  There is enough local color and description of daily activites included in the book to give a good flavor of the time and place.  The story continues as Alexandra's best friend and neighbor, Carl, finds farming unsatisfactory and leaves to earn his fortune elsewhere.  This leaves Alexandra facing spinsterhood.  She sells Carl's farm to a young hard-working couple.  The farmer's wife and Emil, Alexandra's youngest brother, form a fast friendship whose passion is headed out of bounds.  Realizing this, Emil plans to move away for good.  But, before he can leave, a shocking incident disrupts all of their lives.  The event is made even more astounding because of the simple telling of the story to that point.  The incident comes out of nowhere and, to me, was totally unexpected although believable.  It's even more astounding when you realize it was created by a woman more than 90 years ago.  Although the book didn't deliver what I expected, it did deliver the goods, and I will seek out more books by this ground-breaker author.brother, form a fast friendship whose passion is headed out of bounds.  Realizing this, Emil plans to move away for good.  But, before he can leave, a shocking incident disrupts all of their lives.  The event is made even more astounding because of the simple telling of the story to that point.  The incident comes out of nowhere and, to me, was totally unexpected although believable.  It's even more astounding when you realize it was created by a woman more than 90 years ago.  Although the book didn't deliver what I expected, it did deliver the goods, and I will seek out more books by this ground-breaker author.	2004-07-24
US	52884931	R1PENCW1NP8O4O	0786412216	269590180	James Arness: An Autobiography	Books	2	39	47	N	N	For Gunsmoke/Arness fans only	Since the day the program debuted in 1955 through the next 20 years, I was a fan of Gunsmoke and tried never to miss an episode.  Even today, if I can catch a rerun on cable, I always tune in.  I consider it the best TV show ever.  So, I was very interested in reading this autobiography of the actor who created Marshall Dillon.  Unfortuantely, the book delivers in only a few areas.  For a show that lasted a record 20 years, there are remarkably few anecdotes. It isn't until we get into Appendix A offering comments from actors on the show, that we realize why.  James Arness was a loner.  He didn't hang with the other actors.  He came in, shot his scenes, then flew away.  Further, he made it clear he wanted privacy and the other actors on the set respected that (or feared him) and stayed away.  Appendix A, comments by regular actors on the show and crew, is roughly 25% of the book.  It is followed by other appendices including comments by guest stars, fan letters, a filmography and an awards list, so we end up with a big chunk of the book containing self-serving material that added little except pages and flattering comments.  The most interesting parts of the book describe Arness' life away from the set:  his love of surfing, flying and his family.  He only briefly touches on the two tragedies in his life:  his divorce and his daughter's drug-induced death.  Otherwise, it is all success and happiness.  As he admits, he never went after anything, it all came to him.  He had an almost picture perfect existance.  There is one section of the book I would highly recommend, and that is his chapter on Anzio.  It is extremely well written and transports the reader to a point where he feels he is there on the beach attacking with Jim.  It is here where Jim is shot and the resulting injury got him back home and caused physical problems later in life.  It was a fascinating interlude within an otherwise dull book.  Now let me go see if Gunsmoke is on the tube anywhere.	2004-06-07
US	52884931	RABU9X7NN0OGW	0425194337	802275827	This Just In: What I Couldn't Tell You on TV	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Like spending an evening listening and learning	From start to finish, Bob Schieffer, in his gentle way, sits us down and tells us what it was like over the last 40 plus years.  From his early days as a Texas newspaperman finding himself in the company of Mrs. Oswald the day Kennedy was shot, to being sent to cover the war in Vietnam, then finally joining CBS TV and covering all aspects of Washington from Watergate through the 9/11 attack on the Pentagon.  Yes, he was there and his reportage then and his insight now gives us a greater understanding of what has been going on in the world over these four decades.  His plum assignments at CBS kept him at the center of action:  covering the presidential campaigns, the White House, the Pentagon, Capitol Hill, even the war in the Falkland Islands, and now continuing his moderating chores on Face The Nation which he began in 1991.  The subtitle of this book is \\"What I Couldn't Tell You On TV,\\" and he keeps that promise with many anecdotes that haven't been widely reported before this book.  He also describes the movers and shakers of the U.S. during this period.  He got to meet and know them all and he shares his thoughts on such as Lyndon Johnson, Nixon, Carter, Ford, Laird, Cronkite, Rather, the list goes on and on, even includes Agnew.  His take on the changes that have infuenced political races, the Congress, and network TV, and what happened when CBS TV and everybody else blew it on election night 2000 makes for fascinating reading and gourmet food for thought.  Throughout the book he gives us stories of his personal life and glimpses of his day-to-day working routines to give us a feel of what it is like to be a reporter at the center of activity.  This is a fine book.  On a few occasions he breaks from his chronological telling of the story, and I found that momentarily confusing.  And a few more dates sprinkled in would have been helpful.  But, I'm ready to sit down again and hear more of the adventures in journalism from this gentleman and scholar.	2004-05-30
US	52884931	RGV6ANE02M9D4	0142000663	999720718	The Grapes of Wrath (Centennial Edition)	Books	4	1	3	N	N	Tiresome, by half	So you're probably wondering, why such a downer title, and yet he gave it four stars?  Well, if you're willing to be your own editor, you can turn this into a terrific novel or into a moving essay.  But, Steinbeck has combined both, and in today's time, this pairing drives down the pace of both.  Steinbeck's writing pattern is immediatly apparent:  He alternates between an essay dealing in generalities of the situation with the tale of the Joad family specifically living the conditions he has laid out in the essay.  Of course he did that, because he was trying to educate the bulk of America to the condition the migrant workers were facing in California.  If he just told Joad's story, readers might think it is a situation peculiar to only one family.  But, by pairing the Joad episodes with the broader essays, he shows that their desperate situation is shared by thousands of other families.  Each of the essay/story telling sections are easy to dissect, so I suggest the reader who is interested in the compelling story of the Joads skip the essay segments.  I read both in order, and found myself impatient with the essays and wanting to get back to the Joads.  However, the essays are beautifully and powerfully written and important in their time before Caesar Chavez, so the next time I pick up this book, I believe I will just read the essay sections, then read the Joad sections.  I also highly recommend the movie version of this book which starred Henry Fonda.  The book and movie are quite similar in their plots with some exceptions that are interesting to think about.  There are a number of minor characters and situations in the book that didn't make the movie.  One of Steinbeck's themes from the book that didn't see light of the silver screen is that the head of the family was changing from a male to female as the adversities became harder to overcome.  The movie ends on somewhat of a positive note with Henry Fonda's \\"I'll be there\\" speech.  On the other hand, the book ends with a hell-bent-for-leather finale, none of which made the movie, including the haunting climax.  And unlike the movie, the book shows no promise of a brighter future.ends with a hell-bent-for-leather finale, none of which made the movie, including the haunting climax.  And unlike the movie, the book shows no promise of a brighter future.	2004-04-29
US	52884931	R104PFRJR3G98W	1574090488	540242250	Wanderer	Books	4	86	87	N	N	Embarrassingly Good	I bought my copy of \\"The Wanderer\\" when it was first published in 1964, because Sterling Hayden was one of my favorite actors.  I especially enjoyed his work in The Asphalt Jungle, Johnny Guitar, The Killing, Suddenly, and Terror in a Texas Town, among others.  Now, 40 years later I have decided to reread the book, and I forgot how good it was.  The central theme of the book is Hayden's escape from Hollywood, with his young children in tow, on the schooner for which the book is named.  He made this voyage to the south seas against orders of the court, who considered it too dangerous for the children.  As he tells of this less than idyllic voyage, he intersperses fragments of his life, concentrating mostly on his late teens and twenties when he was a working seaman.  He is very stylistic in his writing, and sometimes his switching from first to third person narrative is quite jarring, but the effect is emotionally charging.  As he ages into his thirties and beyond, Sterling finds his life falling apart.  He becomes a Hollywood heart throb and detests his work and lifestyle.  He becomes a Communist for a few months, but never really gets with the program, and to save his hated career, he goes before the HUAC and bares his soul and names names, an action he quickly and forever regretted.  He seesaws between impotency and affairs, he can't communicate with the women he loves, he struggles with no notable success with psychotherapy, he finds his life adrift with no anchor in sight.  All of these travails he lays out with such frankness, I felt embarassed for him.  Hayden holds nothing back as he displays his warts and finds no joy in his life, except with his children.  Does he simply settle, or does he come to some kind of compromise he can live with?  I hope it's the latter, because after all his trials he deserves it.  But I feel it is the former.  Yet, shortly after the book is completed, he films one of his most important roles as Jack Ripper in \\"Dr. Strangelove.\\"  I won't wait 40 years to read this book again.I won't wait 40 years to read this book again.	2004-04-28
US	52884931	R2YWD0QX2DBVFN	0786705442	121686967	Shackleton	Books	5	12	13	N	Y	A super hero; A colossal failure.	Biographer Roland Huntford has combined extensive research and superb story telling into an amazing tale of a most contradictory figure of Edwardian England.  At the turn of the 20th century, Ernest Shackleton was one of the heroes of the British Empire.  But, by the time of his death, in 1922, he was quickly on his way to becoming a forgotten man.  What is most surprising is that he became a hero at all, because he accomplished nothing that he set out to do, and his life was a personal and financial failure.  And most of it was his fault.  His first Antarctic sojourn to the South Pole was with his later rival Captain Robert Scott.  Scott and his fellow explorers had to carry/drag Shackleton much of the way home without them coming close to reaching their goal.  His second assult on the South Pole he led himself, but was forced to abandon his quest with only 100 miles to go.  Before Shackleton could make his next attempt, Scott reached the South Pole, but died before he could return.  So, Shackleton's next venture to make a name for himself was to walk across Antarctica.  Before he could begin his cross-continent trek, his ship, the Endurance, was caught in the ice and crushed.  Shackleton and his band of hapless men fought bitter cold, starvation, trecherous seas, etc., as they struggled to survive.  Yet, without having accomplished his goals he became a hero, because he was an adventurer who never gave up, and that met the criteria of that time.  However, the reason he was mostly unsuccessful was because he refused to accept the proven methods of ice exploration.  He wouldn't consider using skis or dogs, ways that had previously been proven to be successful and most historians now believe would have made the difference between his success and failure.  Instead, he struggled with horses and motorized vehichles, methods that had already been proven disatorous.  But, struggle on he did, and that made him a hero in his country's eyes.  Another factor Shack pointed to with pride:  he never lost the life of any of his fellow explorers.  But, in fact, he lost several members of a seperate supply party, because of lack of preparation for which he was notorious.  Yet, in the diaries his men kept, he was constantly praised for his strength and attitude.  However, these must be regared with a jaundiced eye, because - by contract - all diaries had to be turned over to Shackleton at the end of each voyage.  Yet, proper due must be given, for it would be easy to understand why Shackleton could have given up at numerous occasions and just laid down and died.  But he persevered, and brought his men back with him.  In addition to his continuous failures as an explorer, Shackleton was an adulturer, left his wife and children at the financial mercy of others (even his mistress), constantly chased financial windfalls which never had a chance of success, died 40,000 pounds in debt, ostrasized himself from his family, was a heavy drinker, in fact, pretty much a cad.  He failed to fulfil his writing and lecture committements.  He didn't pay most of the men who risked their life in his employ.  As author Huntford sums up his life:  \\"Mental sloth was Shackleton's fatal flaw.\\"  It was the World War that showed Brits what true heros really were, and brought about their almost immediate lack of interest in this hapless and hopeless wanderer.  So, why should we care about this man and devote the time to read this almost 700 page book?  Because Huntford has written such a brilliant biography that places us at death's door, in violent conditions, against tremendous odds and then gives us the joy of overcoming.  Huntford delves interestingly and deeply into the rivalries of the explorers of the day and into the fascinating personalities of the men who went with Shackleton.  We get it, warts and all.  A first class biography with very helpful maps and dozens of great pictures.with pride:  he never lost the life of any of his fellow explorers.  But, in fact, he lost several members of a seperate supply party, because of lack of preparation for which he was notorious.  Yet, in the diaries his men kept, he was constantly praised for his strength and attitude.  However, these must be regared with a jaundiced eye, because - by contract - all diaries had to be turned over to Shackleton at the end of each voyage.  Yet, proper due must be given, for it would be easy to understand why Shackleton could have given up at numerous occasions and just laid down and died.  But he persevered, and brought his men back with him.  In addition to his continuous failures as an explorer, Shackleton was an adulturer, left his wife and children at the financial mercy of others (even his mistress), constantly chased financial windfalls which never had a chance of success, died 40,000 pounds in debt, ostrasized himself from his family, was a heavy drinker, in fact, pretty much a cad.  He failed to fulfil his writing and lecture committements.  He didn't pay most of the men who risked their life in his employ.  As author Huntford sums up his life:  \\"Mental sloth was Shackleton's fatal flaw.\\"  It was the World War that showed Brits what true heros really were, and brought about their almost immediate lack of interest in this hapless and hopeless wanderer.  So, why should we care about this man and devote the time to read this almost 700 page book?  Because Huntford has written such a brilliant biography that places us at death's door, in violent conditions, against tremendous odds and then gives us the joy of overcoming.  Huntford delves interestingly and deeply into the rivalries of the explorers of the day and into the fascinating personalities of the men who went with Shackleton.  We get it, warts and all.  A first class biography with very helpful maps and dozens of great pictures.	2004-04-14
US	52884931	R2A5KT6XJAW8BX	0679448020	601468192	Dossier: The Secret History of Armand Hammer	Books	3	21	23	N	N	Straightforward Biography of a Twisted Individual	Biographer Epstein does a straightforward, almost journalistic description of the life and times of Armand Hammer, considered by many to be a man of vision, humanity, and charity until details of his life began to seep out following his death. Even the New York Times gave this man a glowing obituary. But, thanks to the tremendous research done by Epstein, we see Hammer for what he was: an evil, self-serving, egomanic. And Epstein's non-sensational telling of the details of Hammer's life is appropriate; it is unnecessary to augment beyond the notoriousness of Hammer's own actions. What Hammer did speaks for itself, and Epstein catalogues his many sins. He was a traitor to his country, his family, his friends. He was such a lowlife that he allowed his father to go to prison for crime he, the son, committed. He was a perpetual adulterer. He laundered millions of dollars and had secret accounts everywhere. He drove what most believed to be a successful company to the brink of bankruptcy. But I could have done without the incessant mini-flashbacks that kept creeping into the narration. And I think it was a really bad choice to begin the book with the prologue describing Hammer's final days. It would work much better at the end, as this failure of a human being tops himself while he is dying with malicious, coniving, and deceitful steps to preserve his false characterization upon his passing. I would strongly recommend that you read the prologue at the end of the book. I would also suggest that as you finish each chapter, you turn to the source notes for that chapter and be amazed by the research Epstein did to compile his facts. He paints Hammer as such a dispicable character, that you will be astounded that this character got away with his ruse for his entire life. In this day of rotten corporate big-business, the book shows the rot has been going on for decades.	2003-01-08
US	52884931	R28FZ892ACYJBE	0786866772	653324315	The Lobster Chronicles: Life on a Very Small Island	Books	4	5	7	N	N	Stephen King is not the only writer from Maine	If you have a hankering to live on a very tiny island off the Maine Coast and earn your living as a lobsterman, then this is the book for you.  Linda Greenlaw gives the sense of such a life in this read.  All right, unlike fellow Maineite Stephen King, you won't find chilling horror and oppressive suspense.  But, you will find funny, gentle, and insightful tales of people who live on this island...stories about Linda's neighbors which often have no bearing on the main plots, like the chapter on Dorothea Dodge.  Linda could just has well have left this chapter out of the book, but I am grateful she included it so we could get to meet the postmistress of Isle Au Haut.  It's a slice of life in a book filled with enough slices to make a giant loaf of bread.  And, unlike Stephen King, the book's main story lines don't come to a neat conclusion at the end of 235 pages.  But life doesn't come to a neat conclusion either.  And that is what this book is about:  Life.  Author Greenlaw has the pace, the tone, the solitude, the frustration just right. I hope the issues that could mean the end of her island world eventually get resolved.  I hope that her mother surmounts her challenge.  I hope Linda doesn't stop at two books.  One nit-picking point which, I believe, points out the lack of editorship quality prevalent in the book world today.  Here we have a notable publisher, Hyperion, but no one there had the knowledge to point out to Linda that it was Samson, not Goliath, that lost his strength when he lost his hair (editor: see page 206).  How that could get by any editor/proofreader is beyond me.  Hopefully, they will catch it before further printings.	2002-11-03
US	52884931	R1EMR2WA8KJTSM	0609607383	792302611	Hobo: A Young Man's Thoughts on Trains and Tramping in America	Books	3	9	10	N	N	Moments of mastery; but few and far between.	This autobiographical account of the beginning of a life of tramping in America had the potential to be a really interesting book.  But, alas, that potential was missed.  Here's a guy who went on to become a member of the Yard Dogs Road Show.  Now, how did he get from being a tramp to there?  You won't find out in this book.  You only know about the Yard Dogs from captions of pictures that were taken sometime (Years? Months? It's impossible to know) after the conclusion of this story.  And he sets up by promoting that this is the story of his sojourn to Mexico, inspired by a picture post card.  But he leaves us one month into the telling, as he concludes the book in a less than satisfactory way.  Much less.  And what makes it more frustrating, is that he has made us care about him and the other sidebar characters in the story.  We do want to know more.  And if he writes another book, I indeed will buy and read it.  There are moments of pure poetic prose in this book reminiscent of William S. Burroughs, but without the gay sex, drugs, and profanity.  These moments tell of his experiences in Nevada from Reno to Vegas.  They are written so well with such colorful descriptions, it's almost as if someone else wrote this section of the book.  And, maybe they did, because author Cotton goes out of his way to credit a very interesting character he meets -- Buckhorn Superstar -- for the help he gave him in writing this section.  There is so much more for Cotton to tell us:  more about the characters he meets, their background and outcome; the work he supposedly did along the way to keep himself in small change; his continuing experiences after he cuts us off; and how did he ever become a Yard Dog.  Plus, how did he get a publisher to agree to print the ramblings of a tramp.  This entire book could be edited down into four chapters and leave room for the telling of the rest of the story.	2002-11-03
US	52884931	R2NG4RBQBR6PEZ	0671042858	321732450	The Girl Who Loved Tom Gordon	Books	5	1	3	N	N	Get this book!!!	I only have one thing to say:  Nine-year-old Trisha McFarland may be the greatest heroine in all literature.	2002-10-06
US	52884931	R1VN397OC64OIG	0452275687	953169942	Loon Lake	Books	4	11	17	N	N	Is Doctorow playing with our minds?	Doctorow makes Loon Lake a much more difficult read than it needs to be.  He keeps changing tense on us.  He keeps switching from first to third person narrative.  He keeps inserting bad poetic verse.  We often don't know who is speaking, sometimes even what about.  Is the narrator of the moment in a dream?  A drug induced state?  As looney as a loon?  But in the end, Doctorow sweeps us up, and when Joe Patterson, nee Korzenioski, is up against it, we feel his pain; the tension is almost unbearable.  We want good things to happen to Joe and Clara...and when he looks out the police station window to see her being taken away we want to scream with him.  Then we want to see good things happen to Joe and Sandy, and maybe they are, or not.  Doctorow keeps us in suspense until the last two pages when it is all laid out.  And it all makes sense.  It is a challenging read, but I'm glad I went down this trail.  It won't be my favorite Doctorow book, but it has made a lasting impression.  Especially shocking was the description of the fate of fat ladies in travelling sideshows.	2002-09-29
US	52884931	R1BFW1C4FQ2KV9	044661095X	565707898	Killing Time	Books	1	3	4	N	N	Where do I go to get my money back?	Seldom have I been as disappointed in a book as this one by Caleb Carr.  Having read and thorougly enjoyed his first two novels -- The Alienist & The Angel of Darkness -- I was excited to find this newest work and very anxious to read it.  Maybe somebody else is writing under his name, because this one shows none of the writing abilities such as the sense of narrative, the attention to detail, the descriptive mastery of his first two.  It is almost like this is an outline, sketchy at best, for a tale of great scope.  His description of the holocaust created within is so minute, that it removes all sense of purpose for the characters' actions.  And he can do so much better.  This is just a bad, bad book.  Only his name could have sold this one to a publisher.  He owes us all an apology and he owes me...	2002-07-16
US	52884931	R28F49N5H86WK3	0806133627	376076952	A Son of the Sun: The Adventures of Captain David Grief	Books	1	0	2	N	N	One step above, or below, pulp fiction	Most of these stories were writen for the Saturday Evening Post and later compiled in book form (the copy I have is a [older]1950s paperback, not the current pricey literary collection).  Captain David Grief, called the Son of the Sun for his body's ability to tan perfectly, is a trader, entrepreneur, and adventurere in the south seas.  In each of the eight episodes which comprise the book, he has a less than spectacular adventure which he solves using the combination of brawn and brain.  There's not enough excitement to be true pulp fiction, and the stories are too slow in developing to interest youthful readers, so it begs the question:  who comprises the intended readership?  I read them because they were writen by London, and as such are well crafted, even if boring.  Unlike many of his other works, I won't be reading this one again.	2002-02-28
US	52884931	R1T712GMXC8A03	1584650044	823276820	Okay, Lets Try It Again	Books	5	1	1	N	Y	A great storyteller strikes again.	In this, his second of three great books, Wiillem Lange concentrates on people who have touched his life, for better or for worse, and all of these 19 short vignettes have one thing in common:  they touch the heart.  Mr. Lange has the knack of capturing the essence of a tale in a few well chosen words and capturing the readers' sensibilities in the three or four pages he devotes to each character.  His story on bathroom remodelling is priceless, a laugh riot from the first paragraph.  Other stories tug at the heart strings.  This little book is to be treasured and kept handy for re-reading whenever your life needs a pick-me-up.  Please, Mr. Lange, keep your books coming.	2002-01-27
US	52884931	R30H2ZXA5FRV45	0882898841	234308962	Shepherd of The Hills, The	Books	2	9	31	N	N	Historically interesting as a book curiosity	Harold Bell Wright was America's most popular author in the early 20th century, with more Wright books to be found in American homes than any other except the Bible;&quot;Shepherd of the Hills&quot; was one of his earliest gigantic sales successes.  And, beyond that, the book is credited with making the Ozarks a major tourist attraction of its day.  Even today &quot;The Shepherd of the Hills&quot; Pageant is performed regularly just outside of America's newest tourist bonanza:  Branson, Missouri.  And herein lies the curiosity of this book: There appears to be nothing in this novel, except for a very pretty girl, that would entice any current reader to want to travel to the Ozarks.  This leads me to conclude that life in urban areas must have been horrendous to seek escape in this dull setting marginally described by Wright in this book.  The characters and their colorless lives are essentially one dimensional and prolonged contact with each would lead to stupefying boredom.  And Wright's physical description of the area is so spare as to be almost non-existant.  Wright does nothing to capture the spirit of the people of the Ozarks, doesn't even try to tackle their dialect.  I can see nothing in this book that would make me want to travel to the Ozarks. And yet, historically, that's the effect the book had.  At least this Wright book comes without this former minister's incessant sermonizing for non-denominational religion.  But, beyond that, what we have here is a somewhat entertaining little book that works its way to the expected conclusion with several exciting scenes along the way.  It's perfect movie pulp and was turned into several features, including one starring John Wayne, who would seem perfect casting for the leading man who is more brawn than anything else.  You could do worse than spend a few hours reading this.  But, you could do much better.  Faulkner anyone?	2002-01-20
US	52884931	RUKY918564AD6	0520218205	893898950	The Valley of the Moon (California Fiction)	Books	1	6	19	N	Y	The Valley of Monotony	This is a long book, maybe one of the longest London wrote, but no matter, you can take it in small doses, because the book is a straight narrative with no suspense, no drama, only London's wishful fantasy working overtime.  No matter the obstacle, and London lays them on with heavy-handed doses of pessimism, the lily-white hero and heroine, Billy and Saxon, easily overcome each while giving the author plenty of opportunity to express his famous prejudice against all non-Anglo Saxons.  London also builds his case for scientific farming, sustainability, as a method that will win out every time.  While in truth, London was an abject failure at farming with every experiement ending in disaster.  The tale is sugar coated fantasy, London  dreaming his couple into everlasting happiness.  The coincidence at the end is not to be believed.  It's pure sap written in the twilight of his career when his talents appear on the wane.  It's the only London book I have read to date that I would not recommend on any level.	2002-01-14
US	52884931	R2HD0T1ZO0XZHD	0451204131	226354809	Fatal North: Adventure and Survival Aboard USS Polaris, the First U. S. Expedition to the North Pole	Books	5	15	15	N	N	A terrific yarn -- and it's true, too!	I am a sucker for survival tales and this is one of the best I have read.  Written by newspaperman Bruce Henderson, it is well researched and presented in a clear, concise manner with just the right amount of detail and suspense enough for several books.  This was America's first attempt to reach the North Pole and unfortunately the government had to stick its hand in.  It was during one of America's worst administrations -- that of U.S. Grant, and he and his cohorts bungled this venture, too.  They spent the money to do it right, but put the wrong people in charge and put together contracts that spelled doom from the start.  The hero of the tale is George Tyson, and what a hero he is...fighting almost unsurmountable odds as he struggles for months on an ice flow with 19 deserted shipmates in the Artic. There are enough villians -- a drunken sea captian, a murderous physician, a crew that refuses to take any orders.  I highly recommend this one without fear of contradiction from anyone who appreciates a good adventure.	2001-10-22
US	52884931	R2EL26SMRRE9HB	0899662676	792399677	To My Sons	Books	5	13	13	N	N	A beautiful book	&quot;To My Sons&quot; is an autobiography of Harold Bell Wright written at the age of 61 for his sons and describing the seminal events of his first 30 years.  So, why should we care?  Because Harold Bell Wright, although little known now, was America's most favorite author of the first third of the twentieth century.  His books set sales records, were turned into popular movies, were found in more homes than any other book except the bible.  And yet, he was the most ridiculed man of letters ever.  His life began in abject poverty, a childhood so destitute that it adversely affected his health for his entire life.  His mother died when he was a boy, his father was a neglecting alcoholic bum, and yet Harold Bell, surviving on his own from his young teenage years, became an entrenpreneur, a minister proclaiming non-denominatonal Christianity, and finally -- having to leave the ministry due to poor health, his books became his pulpit.  His struggles are outlined in this book along with the events and individuals who helped create his philosophy and tenacity for life.  His is an inspiring story of courage and hope, and it is written beautifully, almost ashamedly so. Although the last quarter of the book deals with Wright's utopian idealism in which he forsees royalty of privelage changing to royalty of service and churches turning away from individual creeds and dogma to sacraficing for the masses, the book still deserves five stars based on the strength of the bulk of the material.  Now I better understand and appreciate Wright's novels.  All of Wright's books are difficult to find, but this one especially is well worth the search.	2001-10-15
US	52884931	R11PGYKYS79DKB	0874518598	450409734	Tales From the Edge of the Woods	Books	5	6	6	N	Y	Clear as the New England sky; Crisp as a fall day	I first became acquainted with the work of essayist Willem Lange through his appearances on the Vermont Public Television program &quot;RFD,&quot; which normally ends its weekly broadcast with a piece by this wordsmith.  The essays in this charming little book are culled from other writings and are perfect examples of Mr. Lange's style.  With a minimum of very well chosen words, Mr. Lange paints a detailed picture of people, places, and events and wraps us in his love for all.  There are some very heart-felt expressions here:  A Letter to a newborn grandchild; A sudden understanding of his wife's life-long torment; An appreciation of past leadership provided by a mentor.  In all, there are 18 tiny gems here, none longer than four pages, but the scope of their sentiment is unending.  This is a book to treasure and read over and over again.  If only it were longer.	2001-10-11
US	52884931	RXWP1A2MPNLE2	0380763621	224953303	In the Midst of Death (Matthew Scudder)	Books	4	10	11	N	N	The series is starting to take off	For for the first time in the Matt Scudder series -- now three books long -- the word &quot;alcoholic&quot; rears its ugly head; it's not uttered by Matt, but suggested by a questioning friend. And Matt is full of denial: he can stop anytime he wants, he doesn't drink that much, it doesn't interfere with his capabilities. But, during the solving of this mystery, Matt's seldom far from his last or next drink, he's already suffering blackouts, and he made several tactical, and possibly deadly, errors because of a brain fogged by burbon and coffee. But in between his repeated toss-backs, we have another tight little mystery: This time his client is a cop on the take who gets too greedy and is set up to appear to have killed a hooker. And we get to meet some original and intriguing characters: like Doug Furhman, a character that would be perfect for the acting talents of the late Elisha Cook, Jr., and Kenny the owner of Sinthia's, a gay Village bar. Elaine, the call girl, is back from the first book with a more substantial role in this tale. And there's the client's wife with whom Matt has fling, thankfully alluded to, not given a full desription by Block. And Matt keeps the affair going by feeding her the lines she wants to hear, or could it be that he is so desperately lonely that he really means them and it is her that is stringing his emotions along? It's a dirty big city, but I'm glad Matt lives there and Lawrence Block takes us along with him on his adventures.	2001-09-05
US	52884931	RX935ZKIJ5W9X	0380763656	25198990	Time to Murder and Create (Matthew Scudder)	Books	4	10	10	N	N	Bumbling along	The second in this series of 14 mysteries, soon to be 15, finds our unlikely hero Matthew Scudder further along on his trek to alcoholism, mixed up in unsavory mahem, and trying to get by day to day. It's an interesting case: A blackmailer posthumously hires Matt to determine which of his three pidgeons killed him. So the quasi-detective sets himself up as the blackmailer's replacement to entice the murderer to strike at him so he can solve the case. Matthew, because his mind is becoming benumbed by booze or maybe he just isn't a very good detective, bumbles this case every step of the way, and comes to a less than satisfactory conclusion -- the type of ending only Block has the nerve to create. It's book noir at a higher level. The dialogue is terrific and true, the settings in Manhattan are recorded with exactness, it's a fine tale that kept me reading well into the night. One aspect I especially appreciated, Block didn't seem to feel he needed gratuitous foul language in this second in the series as he did in the first. The book is a great example of why the series is so popular.	2001-08-30
US	52884931	R346P0U7WW3V9T	0870260626	221353729	Harold Bell Wright: Storyteller to America (Great West & Indian Series)	Books	4	15	15	N	N	Whatever happened to HBW?	Harold Bell Wright was one of the favorite authors of President Ronald Reagan. In fact, Reagan credited Wright's first book for convincing him to be baptized. But more than that, Harold Bell was one of the most popular American Authors of the early 20th Century. From 1903 to 1942, Wright authored 19 novels that yielded 15 movies. From 1911 to 1923, six of his books made top ten best seller lists. His first seven novels had a combined sales exceeding seven million, a world's record at the time. He was far more popular than his contemparies Ernest Hemingway, F. Scott Fitzgerald, and H.L. Menken. But the latter three live on, while today hardly anybody has heard of Harold Bell Wright. Why has he disappeared from the literary scene? Why was he the most ridiculed writer of his generation even though his books appeared in more homes than any other save the Bible? That's the mystery biographer Lawrence V. Tagg tries to answer in this book as he sketches Wright's life, a life that began in such poverty and desperation that Wright's health was adversely affected throughout adulthood. In the '20s, according to Tagg, if a child went into a library requesting a Wright book, the librarian would try to talk him into something else. Even with his immense popularity, it is almost impossible to find a Wright book in today's libraries. Most are confined to garage sales and flea markets. Could the answer lie in the fact that Wright, a preacher, used his books as a pulpit as he pushed his agenda for \\"practical\\" Christianity and non-denominational religion? Tagg lays out a case for this and other theories. It's a well-researched, interesting read about a literary giant who is all but forgotten. If nothing else, the book will make you want to search out Wright books and give them a try.	2001-08-30
US	52884931	R1BEZ954TM6J5K	038076363X	196238931	The Sins of the Fathers (Matthew Scudder)	Books	3	17	18	N	N	A good begining for a great series	With the 15th Matthew Scudder book due out December 2001 from Lawrence Block, I thought it would be a good time to re-read all of the initial 14, beginning with this, the first in the line.  It's interesting to note that unlike many other extended series, Scudder holds true to the initial details set down by the author.  He is not yet an admitted alcoholic, but the signs are beginning to show.  He is willing to bend the law to suit his own set of moral values, which he has forever continued to do.  There is a personal violence in this initial episode which is more self-controlled later on, but it is a progression that is realistic.  There are a few unnecessary pages introducing the Elaine character which has nothing what-so-ever to do with this mystery and seems like simple filler to make the book an appropriate length.  But, in future books, Elaine becomes a major participant.  Could it be that Block already had her future role mapped out for her when he wrote this first book?  The mystery isn't that good, I had it somewhat figured out about two-thirds into the story.  But the grisly details are vividly described, the dialogue is hard boiled, and there is a feel for the locale that has become a trademark of the Scudder books.  If you are Scudder fan, this is a must read.  But, on whole, it is a little weak and maybe why Block himself suggests you read another book in the series first -- possible to better whet your appetite for more.	2001-08-18
US	52884931	R25UCJPGC17R87	0425092917	597669853	The Accidental Tourist	Books	4	10	12	N	N	Kept me wondering to the very end... and beyond	While in the library scanning books on how-to-write, I came across a strong recommendation for Anne Tyler's &quot;Accidental Tourist&quot; as a good example of what a novel should be like.  After reading the book, I concur.  The three main characters in the book are Macon - a reluctant travel guide writer, his wife Sarah, and the &quot;other woman&quot; Muriel.  There are also members of Macon's extended family that are equally interesting.  However, none of the characters are very appealing. They are a whiney bunch, introverted, and opinionated. But the author does such a great job describing the idiosyncracies of the trio, that I found myself deeply interested in what happens to them.  There is also fascinating and intelligent dialogue throughout.  After I was caught up with the fate of Macon and the rest, I had to keep reading to find out what happens to their lives, and the author keeps the outcome in question until the last four pages.  It is a well crafted book.  I'm glad I read it.  It is a little muddy to me what inspired Macon to make his final choice; I would have gone the other way.  That muddiness and the unattractive characters made me give this book four instead of five stars.	2001-08-17
US	52884931	RKC41WZ508MAT	0684803283	918759171	Ultimate Elvis	Books	5	1	2	N	N	More than you might want to know about the King	If I only could have one fact source book about Elvis, this would be it.  It contains the most complete overview of his life I have ever seen, compiled in chronological order and supplemented by detailed lists of Elvis data.  A word of warning:  If you want to keep your eyes closed to all but the positives in his life, this is NOT the book for you, because it contains the good, the bad, and the ugly aspects of his life.  I am of the belief he was the greatest popular entertainer of all time, and this book certainly attests to that.  But he also had way more than his share of human foibles, and they are included too.  I'm glad it's part of my research library, and I have and will refer to it often.	2001-08-17
US	52884931	R2DKKIB7O9J0GE	088411693X	364640827	Comrades of the Storm	Books	5	4	4	N	N	What a terrific discovery!  In a word:  Nice!	This book was my introduction to the works of Peter B. Kyne, a writer from the 1920s and '30s who was not too highly respected by critics.  The critics be hanged.  This is a charming book peopled with characters that reached into my soul and stirred inner feelings that had been lying dormat.  It is a romance.  It is humor.  It is a moralistic tale.  Two people at the depths of the depression struggle through, aided by their outstanding code of ethics and a generous benefactor.  The book is filled with improbable coincidences, but the story is told so charmingly, it doesn't matter. If you like well written dialogue, interesting situations, and feel-good endings, this is the book for you.  I can't wait to read more of Kyne's efforts.	2001-07-28
US	52884931	R2A7GGQPREQFQV	038533348X	222797251	Cat's Cradle: A Novel	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Is this the way the world ends? With a whomp?	I am a disc jockey and this past week I read a news story on air about the US government dropping powder onto thunderheads which dried up the clouds and greatly lessened the strength of the storm; now our government is planning on testing the powder on hurricanes.  This actual event drove me to search out my copy of Vonnegut's &quot;Cat's Cradle&quot; and re-read this hilarious, thought-provoking, doomsday tale.  It's filled with eclectic characters: a dwarf with an ugly sister, a mad scientist, spiritualist, bicycle manufacturer, South American dictator, losers and misfits.  It's peppered with cliches that only Vonnegut can get away with.  It introduces a fantastic religion that makes perfect sense.  He even creates a new language.  But at the core is the chilling fact that the U.S. Marines have induced the scientist to invent Ice Nine, even though he knows the inevitable outcome of this substance. It's a merry ride that Vonnegut takes us on.  One of his best books, and that is high praise indeed.  A very fast read.	2001-07-28
US	52884931	RLVLSKOFICJ9D	0380725355	997279820	Everybody Dies (Matthew Scudder)	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Scudder is back!!!	After a huge dip -- lasting three books -- in the quality of this detective series by the very talented Lawrence Block, it's great to see Matt Scudder return in true form.  The terror, the horror, the hard edge is all here.  Some of the best dialogue of the genre has been a trademark of the finest works in the Scudder mysteries, and it has returned at full strength.  The fear and anticipation that Block is so skilled in creating is also in full force here.  It's a first class mystery, terror at its chilling best, bloodbath horror that has no fictional equal.  Thank you for returning Matt to his roots, Mr. Block.  Welcome back, Mathew.	2001-07-12
US	52884931	R199GQE2BBO8H9	0925168475	853348444	Jacks, Jobbers and Kings: Logging the Adirondacks, 1850-1950	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Scholarly yet very readable	This is a very readable account of the  logging industry in the Adirondack Woods from the totally exploitative days of the 1850s to the conservative and preservative methods a century later.  This well-researched book interestingly discusses the initial primative methods of rugged and colorful men with axes and horses cutting and clearing the woods and driving the timber down rampaging and deadly spring rivers through to the industrialization of the process with  power saws and diesel trucks beginning in the 1920s.  The introduction of trains into the Adirondacks, the difficult life of the logging camp with adversity and pestilence, the ever-present danger of forest fires, the logger barrons more interested in profits than preservations; it's all in here, along with dozens of photographs that alone are worth the price of book.  The only reason I didn't give it five stars:  No map, which is a major ommission, especially since many of the locations have outdated names that can't be found on current maps.  It's inconceivable that the  publisher couldn't see the necessity of even a single map.  But, beside that single fault, this is a very good book.	2001-07-04
US	52884931	RJYBGK0K31J3H	1565541219	70323362	That Printer of Udell's	Books	3	11	35	N	N	For another time	I found my copy of this book at a flea market ..., and I figured I couldn't go wrong [the] price [I paid].  ...  I have given the book three stars simply because its Christian theme and style of writing was new to me, and as a result it did keep me occupied and involved until the end.  ...  The author has built the story and its resolution upon amazing coincidences after conincidences.  Maybe the reader can swallow one of them, two at the most, but this is an unending chain.  As this is a Christian book, possibly the reader of the era in which it was written -- the turn of the 20th Century -- would look upon the happenings as God's will, but I found it totally unbelievable.  I'm glad I read the book, because it is most unusual and foreign to today's modern literature, but I don't believe I would want to read another of Wright's books.  Maybe if I was living at the turn of the century with that trusting mindset, he would become a favorite author.  But, today the book is just a curiosity piece.	2001-06-21
US	52884931	R3IMR6S4LNFXBN	0062730665	636126079	How to Write a Movie in 21 Days: The Inner Movie Method	Books	5	24	27	N	Y	I'd give it more stars, if I could.	If you have at least a glimmer of an idea for a screen play, this is the book for you to get it into manuscript form.  It's writing by the numbers, i.e., the first crisis by a certain page, but it's an exceptionally easy formula to follow.  In addition, the author gives specific instructions to set up the page format in acceptable script form.  I know college writing classes where this little book is required reading before you can even enroll.  I write stage plays, 12 that have been produced, several off-Broadway, and I have found this book helpful for that medium as well.  Again, if you've got the idea for a plot, follow the instructions herein, and you will have a completed script in 21 days using this painless method.  But, there's the rub -- you do need an idea.	2001-06-21
US	52884931	R2KSI9AIH20RKA	1586420003	691988543	Mawson's Will: The Greatest Polar Survival Story Ever Written	Books	5	1	2	N	Y	Greatest?  You bet!	I'm a little leary of books that have the audacity to rate themselves &quot;the greatest,&quot; but in this case, the accolade fits.  I am a big fan of arctic stories, and this is the best I have ever read.  And what a challenge it is for author Bickel:  How do you take days upon days after days of one man's struggle against overwhelming odds in Antarctica and not make it boring.  Well, Bickel found a way.  This is a very exciting, very well told tale of one man's courage and fight to survive.  I would highly recommend this.  One major fault:  How can you publish a book of exploration without one map?  I read this book with an opened Atlas on my lap, but the names of locations in the book are so obscure or outdated that most Atlases don't cover them. A map would have been most helpful.  Still, the excitement of the book is worth five stars.	2001-06-13
US	52884931	R3GC1B6YVUQYHN	0870234587	821824708	To Purge This Land with Blood: A Biography of John Brown	Books	3	31	46	N	N	The research is showing	In the preface of his book, author Oates states it is not his intention to determine the mental capabilities of his subject, abolitionist John Brown. But, he certainly paints a vivid enough picture so the reader can determine for himself if Brown is a crazy old coot, a cold blooded murderer, or a man on a mighty mission or a combination of all three.  I had just read Cloudsplitter by Russell Banks (a fictionalized version of Brown's life; see my review) and it made me want to read a real biography of Brown.  If anything, this book made me appreciate Banks' immagination even more.  To Purge This Land with Blood is a very detailed account of Brown's life, maybe too detailed.  Every character, no matter how inconsequential, is named. And this sea of names and places can be mindboggling.  I found much of the book slow going and already knowing the outcome of Brown's life didn't compel me to move on quickly.  But, after reading the book, I now believe I now know Brown.  And isn't that the purpose of biography?	2001-03-11
US	52884931	R2TYRM80VM8ANT	078600133X	420754840	Lobster Boy	Books	2	5	9	N	N	National Enquirer in paperback form	Although written on the level of the National Enquirer, that is dumbed down for even the simplest minds to understand, this book nevertheless takes us into a world few of us seldom encounter:  the sideshow freaks.  Thankfully that era of human exploitation is almost gone now (except maybe for the ersatz sideshows at Coney Island), but this book gives us a human side to these people wrapped around a saddening murder story.  There are worse ways to spend a few mindless hours than reading this book.	2001-02-27
US	52884931	R2R27B5N1VAT1F	0060930861	901054422	Cloudsplitter: A Novel	Books	3	4	4	N	N	Seems real to me	In the Author's Notes at the beginning of this lengthy book, Russell Banks emphasizes that this is a work of fiction.  However with the amount of detail he puts in this work (they ate skillet bread from Indian meal and drank creek water mixed with ginger and molasses on the trail), it certainly seemed real to me.  If you enjoy this amount of minutiae, then the book should enthrall you.  To me, I found it hard going at times, but many parts were fascinating.  There are some interesting concepts presented here:  That John Brown &quot;secretly believed...he was a Negro;&quot;  that Brown went to Europe to study the military strategy of Napoleon; that Brown, in fact, was the pawn of his third son Owen (the narrator of this book).  Banks claims that if it were not for Owen, his father would have remained a farmer and preacher in upstate New York. And therein lies the rub:  Are these ideas fiction or fact?  What is real or what is the author's immagination.  I felt this confusion made for an unsatisfactory read.  If nothing else, the book has made me want to delve further into Brown's life.  Absolutely the author exhibits exceptional writing skills, however I wish he had either done a biography on this scale of background and detail, or written purely fiction without use of real people as central figures.  One more point:  It would have been very helpful if Banks had included some dates as guideposts along the way.	2001-01-31
US	52884931	R1DDYXXV90K08A	0963247689	783975593	The Last Real People	Books	2	0	0	N	N	Potential unrealized	As a native of the Adirondacks who spends his summer fun time in the Long Lake area which is the setting of the book, I looked forward to reading Lapointe's effort.  However, I find that his effort was lacking.  What we have here are 44 short vingnettes about what could be very interesting characters.  And there lies the problem:  Short.  We only get bits and pieces on each subject, not enough to make us really care to any great extent.  I do believe the subject matter is here for a truly great novel of Americana which would tie all these Adirondackers together through their love of survivinging in this harsh land.  Instead, what we have are stories you might hear in any bar, donut shop, or back stoop.  Interesting, maybe, but just the tip of the mountain.	2001-01-01
US	52884931	R22ULB5TXA29PF	0380001071	702761302	David Harum	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Great, until the last dozen pages	Edward Westcott (himself a banker in upstate New York in the latter part of the 19th century) wrote only one book, but he didn't live long enough to see it published in 1898.  The book, &quot;Daivd Harum,&quot;introduces a  very interesting country banker with crackerbarrel philosophy which became  a wonderful character for Will Rogers in the movie of the same name.  There  are some terrific vignettes in this book, the Christmas one alone would  make a wonderful annual TV special. Conversations between the principals  sparkle with good humor and much heart.  The only problem I had with the  book is the two unlikely coincidences at the end of the tale.  It's like  the author didn't know how to resolve the issue, so he created impossible  chance meetings.  Not one, but two of them.  However, up until this point,  the book is as good as any I have read.  I would suggest that you try and  find it and enjoy it for yourself.	2000-05-05
US	52884931	R1H2IJM1OU887J	0451525981	820457278	Dodsworth	Books	4	17	18	N	N	A delightful read	&quot;Dodsworth&quot; harkens to a day when you took time to read books, to savor words, descriptions, phrases, conversations between people.  This is not a fast beach read, but a book to enjoy at a slow pace matching the  flow of the text.  Conversations go on for pages, with characters speaking  in paragraphs, not sentences of 4 or 5 words.  The book is an exploration  of the mood and mind of Dodsworth, a retired American industrialist, still  very much in the prime of his life, who is cajoled into taking his wife on  an open-ended trip to Europe.  The wife, battling the on-coming middle age  years, flirts outrageously, and this leads to romantic entanglements.  Dodsworth is left to fend for himself, and returns home, where he longs for  his wayward spouse.  Returning to Europe, he finds little changed and they  agree to divorce.  After fumbling around the contintent, Dodsworth finds a  woman to love, but then his wife is dumped by her latest paramour and  Dodsworh is faced with the choice of returning to his mate of 20 plus  years, or setting out on a new course.  You can feel his pain in coming to  his decision.  This book is a terrific discourse on the Ugly American as  well as the phony European royalty. Both sides are equally distasteful, but  interesting none-the-less.  The only reason I didn't give this book five  stars is that Lewis seems to rush the ending.  The resolution comes too  quickly compared to the pace of the rest of the book.  It's like the author  thought, &quot;Well, I've got almost 400 pages, so let's wrap it up.&quot;  By the way, there is a very good movie made of the book featuring Walter  Houston.  It's available on video and very faithful to the book.	2000-05-05
US	52884931	RMEHFT582P5YZ	0781282500	864805332	The Road	Books	2	4	13	N	N	Enough already!	This is London's autobiographical tale of his life as a hobo and a part-time, although not a very loyal, member of Kelly's Army.  One serious failing of this books is that London neglects to give any  historical facts on this Army.  Why was it created, what were its results?  Instead we get very repetitious stories about riding the rails and  escaping the bulls, his time in the Erie County Jail, a lot of abuse of  women and children.  The story's beginning is in the middle and there  is no end.  When did he leave the road and why?  You won't find out here.  To me, the only reason to read this book is if you are trying to read  the entire London cannon, as I happen to be doing.  With a little better  organization and a lot of editing, this could have made an interesting  short story.	2000-04-24
US	52884931	R1QYLFND9UJ25V	0803279930	829601022	Before Adam (Bison Frontiers of Imagination)	Books	4	12	12	N	N	Very unusual, very interesting	I have never read a book quite like Jack London's &quot;Before Adam.&quot; It would be interesting to learn what his target audience for this book was -- young teens, high school students, adults? In it, London sets the premise for the reason of common dreams we all have, such as the dream of falling through space. He attests that it comes from our pre-man existence when we lived and slept in trees and falling meant almost sure death. He takes this theory a giant step forward through the narrator of the book who claims he has pre-historic dreams in which he sees himself as a pre-historic tree and cave dweller named Big Tooth. He creates a fascinating world for Big Tooth to inhabit, and delves into early evolution and survival of the fittest. There are a few holes in his logic, but mostly the story holds together well with several exciting chase sequences. The world of Big Tooth is horrifying, and I think for young teens who are susceptible, it could induce additional nightmares beyond falling. There are dramatic scenes of killing, torture, wife beating, and mass exterminations which are quite explicit. I'm glad I read it, for the book has given me much to think about.	2000-03-11
US	52884931	RI175A2QMTLNH	0805053131	712956646	The Famine Ships: The Irish Exodus to America	Books	1	46	46	N	Y	One book badly in need of an editor	This may be the most disorganized book I have ever read, and it contains numerous factual errors to boot, a kiss of death for a supposed history book.  The vignettes come at you with no apparent thought about how one  inter-relates with another.  It is just a jumbled mess of repetitious  incidents randomly presented.  A simple solution would have been to build  each chapter around a port of emigration.  As for factual errors, how about  the Titanic sailing on its maiden voyage from New York City.  Or, on one  page you are told a ship sank but most of its 200 passengers survived.  On  the next page you are told that most died.  And there is no further  explanation or clarification given.  Dates of events are given as one year  in the book, and pages later as another year.  The book is published by  reputable Henry Holt.  Boy, they were totally asleep on this one.  Even if  there are some interesting facts given, how can you trust them in the face  of all the errors.  If you like watching movies to find the mistakes - like  Plan 9 From Outer Space -- then this book is for you.  All other  potential readers, beware.	2000-02-21
US	52884931	RPC6QZFH6ETBE	0932458343	578888908	Burning Daylight	Books	4	39	40	N	N	What a good woman can do to a bad man.	&quot;Burning Daylight&quot; was Jack London's best selling book during his lifetime, yet amazingly since his death, the book has been totally neglected except for an occassional reprint, and currently it is again out of print.  The book begins as a two-fisted macho adventure on the Klondike,  as the hero --nicknamed Burning Daylight -- becomes the most successful  entrepreneur during the Alaskan Gold Rush.  However, after acheiving his  fame and fortune, he finds no more challenge in the north and heads to the  States for new worlds to conquer.  But, first he is flim-flammed out of his  fortune by Wall Streeters.  However, he learns the lesson of dog-eat-dog  and becomes as much of a scoundrel as those who robbed him.  He ventures to  California and envisons the future success of Oakland, buys property, sets  up utilities and public transportation systems through overbearing and  shady tactics. He begins to drink, starts to go soft in the belly, loses  his good looks and vitality.  And then, for the first time, he falls in  love.  The last third of the book charmingly relates how a good woman turns  a now bad man around.  It is a love story.  A rousing adventure.  A trieste  on the ills of big business.  All superbly written by Jack London.  It's  easy to see why this book was so popular in London's day.  If you can find  it, read it.  It will be time well spent.	2000-02-19
US	52884931	R1PYW4I9VEQA4U	0140186778	673279617	The Assassination Bureau, Ltd. (Classic, 20th-Century, Penguin)	Books	3	10	12	N	Y	Interesting for London fans only.	Jack London stopped writing this book, because he felt he couldn't resolve the situation satisfactorly.  I believe that could be because the entire book is based on a very weak and confusing premise.  What was the argument  that convinced the head of the Bureau that their work was wrong?  I read  the passage which presented the argument several times, and I am still  unclear on this point.  Almost 60 years after London's death, Robert Fish,  supposedly using the notes of London and London's wife, took on the chore  of completing this chase drama and wrote approximately the last 60 pages of  this 160 page story.  At the end of the book, we are told at what point  Fish took over from London and London's and his wife's notes are given.  What I find very interesting, is that Fish's ending is a vast improvement  on the notes.  I am a London fan and collect his first editions, but I  beleive if he had completed this book following his notes, it might have  been his worst effort.  Fish, at least, keeps the excitement high as he  picks up the pace of the chase, and brings it to a logical conclusion.  But, I still wouldn't recommend this book to anyone other than London  fanatics, mainly because of the inadequate and incomprehensible premise the  resulting story is based on.	2000-02-19
US	52884931	R122PAQKP09HHF	0553212257	321315584	The Sea Wolf (Classics)	Books	5	24	27	N	N	Best book I have ever read.	Jack London's stated intention in writing this book was to place a man and a woman, both intellectual, well-to-do, yet socially soft (physically and psychologically). into the very challenging world of a seal hunting boat  and watch them strive for survival.  In this context, he has created one of  the most fascinating characters of all literature, Wolf Larson, the inhuman  captain of the &quot;Ghost.&quot;  Larson takes great delight in the  suffering he brings to Humphrey Van Weyden and Maud Brewster, but they  steadily grow to meet the challenge.  This book can be read and enjoyed on  two levels:  As a rousing sea adventure, or as a discourse on society and  sociology.  Jack London is my favorite author -- I am in the process of  collecting first editions of all fifty of his books -- and yet I find Sea  Wolf ranks head and shoulders above all his other works.  It could explain  why this story has been turned into a film seven times, more than any of  his his other stories, including The Call of the Wild.  Two of cinema's  great Wolf Larsons have been Edward G. Robinson and Charles Bronson.	2000-02-19
US	52884931	R1TK40HKQN7ZUL	1583960473	739692056	John Barleycorn	Books	4	25	27	N	Y	I'll drink to this one	Reading Jack London's &quot;John Barleycorn&quot; is like attending an AA meeting almost 50 years before they were instituted.  London herein gives his story of life with alcohol, and it is much like those you hear in the  rooms.  Beginning with denial, then the drinking becomes a morning thing,  then on the sly, the progression is classic alcoholism.  Along the way,  London includes enough autobiographical information that this is more than  just a booze tale.  Interestingly, London -- a devout socialist --  constantly harps on the need for prohibition in this country as a way to  end the danger of alcoholism.  And we all know how that worked out.  I'm,  an alcoholic, so I appreciated the book on one level.  London is my  favorite author, and this is one of his good efforts.  It's not a  depressing tale but one that is uplifting.  I recommend it.(Review by Tom  Bruce)	2000-01-30
US	52884931	R3PQ6STXS19WPQ	0312206550	310468384	The Last Voyage of the Karluk: A Survivor's Memoir of Arctic Disaster	Books	3	6	8	N	Y	Not enough personality details	I am a fan of shipwreak tales, and this true story is a fine example of the genre.  Written by a survivor of this 1913 disaster, the book does an excellent job of describing the suffering the untrained Arctic explorers  went through during their months of isolation.  However, one major fault is  that it is difficult to identify with individuals; they tend to be a  jumbled comglomerate.  I think this is because the author gives very little  personal data about anyone, therefore they are little more than a name and  an undescriptive phrase.  What compounds this fault, is that two of the  shipwreaked crew were from Shakelford's Antarctic shipwreak.  It would be  interesting to see how their previous experience affected them  psychologically.  Further, the captain of the Karluk left his ship stranded; an  entire book could be written about him.  Yet we are given little here to understand his motivations.  These real individuals, as well as other crew  members, deserve more attention and description.  (Book review by Tom  Bruce)	2000-01-30
US	52884931	RULMWMUR7V1XA	0375753133	895324472	Winesburg, Ohio (Modern Library 100 Best Novels)	Books	4	1	1	N	Y	Needed:  A Little Seltzer Down the Pants	Anderson has woven together a group of interesting vingnettes about people we would not spend the time to get to know in real life.  They are boring, depressing, and unimaginative.  He ties them together very loosely on three  fronts: They live in or near Winesburg, Ohio;  They are mostly passing  acquaintances of a cub reporter on the local paper; They are literature's  Sad Sacks.  But, in a very few paragraphs, Anderson gives enough  information to make me want to know more about these people, and therefore  makes a compelling, fast read.  This book would be a good medicine for a  diabetic, but deadly to a manic depressive.  It deserves its place in  classic literature.  (Reviewed by Tom Bruce)	2000-01-30
US	52884931	R3R9TNB1KEI2N5	038000741X	571510645	Monkey Wrench Gang	Books	5	1	2	N	N	One of the five best books I have ever read.	I read an average of a book a week, and The Monkey Wrench Gang is going to remain part of my subconscious forever.  Four terrific characters in exciting chase sequences across the desert south west.  One terrific ending  to one terrific book.  I'm an avid backpacker, camper, outdoorsman, and  this book satisfied all of these aspects of my soul.  I will treasure it  forever.	1999-06-12
US	52884931	R2OEOQHCK32Z8W	1558173854	868779765	Loving Women	Books	5	31	31	N	Y	Deserves to be reprinted	I found this book in a used book shop, and being a fan of Hamill's, I bought it.  Somewhat semi-autobiographical, the book follows a Brooklyn youth into his induction into the Navy and life at its most raw.  The story  thrusts one suprise twist on top of another, one exciting episode is  immediately replaced by one even more thrilling.  And this may be the most  erotic book I have ever read.  Not quite pornographic, the scenes of lust  between two lovers are very descriptive and will stick with the reader for  some time.  I have read thousands of books, and this has to be in my top  ten.  Look for it, the search will be highly rewarding.	1999-02-07
US	52884931	R1GGA1CCL93KDH	0380725347	399784443	Even the Wicked (Matthew Scudder)	Books	2	0	1	N	N	Quality of the series is not holding up	I have been a big Lawrence Block/Matt Scudder fan and have often recommended books from the series to friends.  However, I find that beginning with the previous book in the series, A Long Line of Dead Men, the fun has left the the Scudder books as they become mostly talk and very little action.  I still would highly recommend all previous Scudder books -- of which there are 11, but it's time for Block to put this PI to sleep.  Now that Scudder has become a permanently sober, legitimate P.I., and stick-in-the mud married middle-aged gum shoe, he is BORING.	1998-01-31
US	52884931	RL3N6LN0A97EQ	0671510126	412606618	The Good Earth (Enriched Classics)	Books	3	0	2	N	N	Not as good as the movie	I have read that \\"The Good Earth\\" may be the most over-rated book ever to win the Pulitzer Prize. However, since I have not read all the Pulitzer winners, I can't comment on that. But, it seems to me that it does have several shortcomings. The biggest, to me, is a fairly boring last third of the book. After Wang Lung has struggled mightily from starvation to prosperity, author Pearl Buck is challenged to find obstacles for Lung to take on. What she comes up with is lame indeed after members of Wang Lung's family had been forced to fight famine, droughts and floods, eat dirt, strangle their newborn child, beg for thier existence, drive a rickshaw, evade rambling thieves and armies, an entire cataloge of seemily impossible odds. What are some of his latter day struggles: whether his wife will accept his mistress; whether his sons can get along; how much education is too much? These are real downers after a fast-paced beginning. Much has been made about the simplicity of the writing. Well, these are simple people, so it fits. I find the tone of the book is much like reading the Bible, which also makes sense, because Buck's father was a missionary. However, one drawback of this simplistic style -- which she maintains steadfastly throughout -- is that when something truly exciting happens, such as the attack of the locust, she is unable to create the power within this style to capture the intensity of the moment. In this vital respect, the movie towers over the book. I recommend you buy the video. Forget the book.	1997-12-08
US	52884931	R2HC2RTTX8M6DO	0140187723	762099645	Martin Eden (Penguin American Library)	Books	4	39	40	N	Y	Not his best, but close enough	\\"Martin Eden\\" is my fifth foray into the works of Jack London.  Although I don't find the excitement within that was apparent in \\"Sea Wolf,\\" the passion is certainly evident.  I have read that \\"Martin Eden\\" inspired more bad writers to sequester themselves with paper and pencil in unheated attics than any other book, and it is easy to determine why.  Eden's obsession with learning and then creating the immortal printed word -- after falling for a woman above his class in society/socialist-conscious San Francisco -- is a powerful force that London expounds convincingly.  Then, without warning, the sage advice \\"be careful what you wish for, it may come true,\\" rears its ugly head.  London also includes a line about ghosts that should be a classic, but isn't, and his description of a suicide ranks as the best of its kind.  A WORD OF WARNING:  Do not read the foreward until after.  It tells too much of the story and robs some of the author's intended suprises.  This is unforgivable.  May the publisher rot in hell.	1997-12-08
