US	52885527	RESR53CY2OEIV	0609608916	35398552	Who Cut The Cheese? - An A-Mazing Parody about Change (and How We Can Get Our Hands on Yours)	Books	4	3	5	N	N	Behold, the Odor of Cheese!	This is a funny little book with punny little sayings scattered throughout, drawn on the wall of the maze by the misfunctional little people , with &quot;soft charcoal,&quot; that we can all figure is something else.  It is a great parody of the original &quot;Who Moved My Cheese&quot; and is funny, even if you never read the original, sainted tome of anti-whiners.  Just the title will get a snicker if you accidentally bring to a motivational meeting.	2002-03-28
US	52885527	R22HP85HHRKAGT	0395983630	56114657	Taylor's Guide to Perennials: More Than 600 Flowering and Foliage Plants, Including Ferns and Ornamental Grasses - Flexible Binding (Taylor's Guides)	Books	5	13	13	N	N	Fantastic Reference for the Perennial Gardener	This is an excellent, encyclopedic reference guide, whether you are trying to identify existing plantings or add perennials to your garden.  There is a section with lots of backround gardening information; soil preparation, feeding, watering and etc.  The really useful part is the plant guide.<br />There is a long section with color photographs of hundreds of flowering perennials.  This is followed by a comprehensive descriptive guide to the plants, arranged alphabetically by Latin family name.  A general description is followed by specific growing tips and varietal descriptions.  All the photographs and descriptions are cross-referenced by page number so it is easy to go from a picture to a description or vice-versa.  A comprehensive index further adds to the book's ease of use.<br />If you are dreaming of, or caring for, a perennial garden, this book is indispensable.  As it points out, there are tens of thousands of perennials, most of which are not specifically addressed, but basic traits and cultivation methods are shared by thousands of varieties within each genus.  This book will guide you to a successful planting plan for your climate.	2002-03-23
US	52885527	RNB9P2YM7Y8NS	0767903269	863762746	The Informant: A True Story	Books	4	0	0	N	N	An Inside Look at Corporate Corruption	This book starts out well, with lots of detail about the investigation into price fixing of ADM's products in the 1990's.  The detail becomes overwhelming as the tale goes on, with meeting after meeting of the conspirators laid out for examination.<br />The story is mostly about the flawed personality and reasoning of the primary character, a former ADM executive, whom the FBI coddled and prodded as they built their case.  His ulimate exposure is a surprise to the FBI, despite the many clues he left along the way.  The cumbersome infighting among Federal Agencies is also laid bare.<br />The events are well documented and is an interesting read for fans of true-crime stories.  It leaves one understanding how so many investigations have been botched; not for lack of evidence, but lack of cooperation and coordination.	2002-03-17
US	52885527	R2NP4QOT2ND9HC	156158259X	364744145	The Landscape Makeover Book: How to Bring New Life to An Old Yard	Books	4	14	14	N	N	Lots of Inspiration, But Not Much How-To Detail	I would say this is a worthwhile book if you are looking for pictures of made-over yards and decks.  There are very few &quot;before&quot; pictures and not a lot of detail on how to achieve the results.  The process is explained, from planning on paper to renovating walks, concrete stoops, garden beds and plantings.  <br />Examples of various projects are shown in photographs and described in some detail.  Pruning and moving shrubs and trees are shown.  There is not a lot of specific information about plants.  There is a very brief discussion of water features.<br />This book is a good place to start the process, but unless you already have construction and horticultural skills, you will need additional information to actually complete a project.	2002-03-17
US	52885527	R2DH55OHRTQ3M3	1561582921	461592556	Wooden Fences	Books	5	12	14	N	N	Beautiful, Informative Book for Planning &amp; Building a Fence	George Nash's writing, with the aid of former National Geographic photographer James P. Blair, expounds on the history and great variety of fences.  Although primarily about wooden fences, he does touch on rock, iron and wire fences in the discussion of the history of fencing.<br />Nash points out the many reasons for fencing, from the practical to the ornamental and how each type may be designed and constructed.  He explains the reasoning and functionality of purpose-built fences very clearly.<br />There is also great technical detail, from how to pick materials to how to layout and set fence posts.  There are clear diagrams of common fence joinery and shop tips for making the various components.  Do's and don'ts in design are pointed out.  Repairs and maintenance are also discussed.<br />Although there are no measured drawings, the aspect ratio of the &quot;golden rectangle&quot; is presented to aid you in making an attractive, as well as functional, fence.  The rich plethora of color photographs and clear diagrams depicting an incredible variety of designs will inspire, or perhaps confound you, with ideas to build your own fence.<br />The only problem with this book is that there are so many great ideas, it's hard to pick just one!	2002-03-17
US	52885527	RCL40UACG9YB	1561582018	345357504	Annuals With Style	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Annuals Will Feed Your Gardening Creativity!	Where perennials and shrubs provide static and permanent elements in your garden, annuals are a fluid element that you can change from year to year.  This book gives you all the backround you need to get started with an attractive Annual garden.<br />It is divided into three parts: garden design; making them grow; and an illustrated guide to many common annuals.  The design section details the process of selecting plants, not only for color, but compatability with their location and neighboring plants.  The second section will help cure your &quot;brown thumb&quot; if you have difficulty keeping things alive.  You will learn how to properly feed and water your plants.  The last section has color photos and great detail about each plant presented; Latin name, sowing, growing and care are here.<br />This book is not only useful for researching and designing your garden, it is beautifully illustrated with rich color photographs throughout.  There are also some color diagrams where appropriate.<br />Write your name in this book and chain it to your coffee table.  After seeing your results the first season, the neighbors may be tempted to carry it off for their own use!	2002-03-17
US	52885527	R3C7QXJCMW1MGS	0966094573	312185157	Divided By A Common Language: A British/American Dictionary	Books	5	9	11	N	N	Solid Hit On A Moving Target	The study of language and usage is a constantly evolving beast.  Christopher Davies has taken a slice of usage and explained it to us with this book.  Some common slang and colloquialisms from both countries are included.<br />There are brief narratives about driving, schools, dining, etiquette, pronunciation and a host of other subjects.  These are followed by lists of equivalent US/UK terms.  There is also an extensive lexicon, along with idioms and expressions.  These are listed American to British and British to American, just like a true translation dictionary.<br />There are also numerous cautions about the use of certain terms which may be interpreted as vulgar depending on the country they are used in.  Some of the &quot;translations&quot; are a bit humorous; &quot;pissed&quot; is considered vulgar in both countries, in the US it means &quot;furious,&quot; In the UK it means &quot;drunk.&quot;  I guess I'd rather be pissed in the UK!<br />Davies also explains mechanical differences in plumbing, electricity, telephone usage, currency, banking and postal service.  These sections would be of greater interest to travelers than readers.<br />Although it is difficult to label any dictionary in any language as absolutely complete and current, this one gets very close to the mark.  Even Webster's is revised every few years!  This is a good place to start matriculating the usages of the opposite country, if you plan travel, correspondence, reading or just watching TV.  You may find hidden humor in works you have already read.  If not, I'm sure you'll find some amusement just perusing the various sections of Davies book.  At the very least, you'll have no excuse if you drop a clanger and blot your copybook on you next London holiday.	2001-12-15
US	52885527	R3LD4VAWM9BHE4	0961559780	891970023	Exploring Kansas	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Finding Hidden Travel Treasures	Mil Penner takes us to small towns and hamlets off the beaten track in a state that many people pass over.  The book reads like a series of articles about the counties he highlights.  There are not many habitated towns in most of the counties he explores.<br />He highlights local history and culture, both in artifacts and personalities.  He looks at the Santa Fe Trail, ethnic settlements, wildlife, festivals, museums (both public and private), historic structures and small industries.<br />If you are planning on travelling to or through Kansas, this book will open your eyes to some opportunities that aren't found in more popular travel guides.  If you are looking for a quiet and unrushed place to tour, you will find it in Kansas.  This is a ground-level view of a well-grounded state.	2001-11-24
US	52885527	R3NQQN37IFRQLJ	0486258475	867846178	Easy-to-Make Bird Feeders for Woodworkers (Dover Woodworking)	Books	5	40	42	N	N	More Than Just Feeder Plans	Scott D. Campbell has put a plethora of information in this concise book detailing feeding birds.  He has included not only plans for the construction of feeders, but information on how to attract various species of birds by offering their favorite meals in an attractive format.  <br />There are clear drawings, dimensions and materials lists for all the projects.  Basic information regarding construction techniques with a variety of materials are detailed.  He even includes some &quot;squirrel proof&quot; designs.<br />There are charts detailing what type of common and not-so-common feeds many different species eat and how many species are attracted by each feed.  He has also depicted breed specific feeders.  How to locate, mount and stock your completed projects is also detailed.<br />Beginner or not, if you are looking for a manual to make simple feeders and attract birds with them, this is the only book you'll need.  Mr. Campbell has once again set the standard for bird lover's projects.	2001-07-23
US	52885527	REXIEZKRMOHG6	1888952970	874733672	The Best Defense: True Stories of Intended Victims Who Defended Themselves with a Firearm	Books	5	44	45	N	N	Great Insight on Our Second Ammendment Rights	The basic premise of this book is: defensive use of firearms is not just for the military and police; it is for every citizen confronted or assaulted by violent criminals violating their personal and property rights.  This book contains numerous examples of citizens who used firearms to save their own lives, or the lives of others, before law enforcement arrived.<br />There are also examples of armed citizens coming to aid of stricken law enforcement officers, who probably owe their lives to the second ammendment rights exercised by the citizens.  The stories of survival in the face of certain death at the hands of a violent criminal are gripping.<br />The book is a fast and easy read.  Although not a great literary work, Robert A. Walters succeeds in telling the stories of victims turned defenders completely and understandably.  No matter which side of the &quot;gun control&quot; debate you are on, this book will give you a good source of insight into the reasoning behind the pro-second ammendment advocates.<br />You will probably not sleep well at night after reading this book - unless you have an appropriate, loaded weapon nearby.	2001-07-22
US	52885527	R1KQ2ZLZF5GNQ3	031226660X	19959884	The Ten Things You Can't Say in America	Books	5	9	9	N	N	The PC Police Won't Like This One!	Who, but Larry Elders, a Libertarian, can point these things out without being called racist, biggoted or uninformed?  He delves into ten topics that are at the top of the &quot;PC Police's&quot; list of taboo subjects.<br />He points out the problems we are failing to address and the reasons behind that attitude.  He has a large appendix of references, charts and statisitics to back up his reasoning.  He exposes many of the accepted &quot;norms&quot; as myth, while reinforcing others as understatement.  Some of the facts that have been hidden from the general public are truely shocking.<br />If you are looking for a thought-provoking, insightful read about American society and its problems, this is a good book to start with.  It is a quick and lively read that will make you want to learn more than what is told on the nightly news.	2001-07-22
US	52885527	R11906EHN2DMB6	1561582417	641551458	Classic Garden Structures: 18 Elegant Projects to Enhance Your Garden	Books	5	21	21	N	N	Great Book for the Gardening Woodworker	The projects are not so challenging as to be overwhelming; they are fairly simple and can be completed in an evening or over the weekend.  The exception is the greenhouse, which has a block waist wall and wood framing for the glass top.  I am building the tomato towers and will start the strawberry tower to use next year.  There are several smaller projects - a sting-line row marker, caddies and dibble that can be made with scraps you may already have.<br />I am blessed with a shop full of power tools and shop-made jigs, which makes ripping and cutting complicated angles easier, faster and more accurate, but many of these can be built with simple hand tools and attention to detail.<br />The book is well laid out, profusely illustrated with color photographs of the completed projects and clear construction drawings and plans.  They even recommend specific woods for each project - mainly cedar - but I had a bunch of pressure treated yellow pine left over from other projects which I am using.  They also recommend finishes for each project.<br />If you are looking for something to do when it is too hot, cold or wet to work outside; here's your book.  Your garden will be more beautiful and efficient.  Your plants will thank you.	2001-07-09
US	52885527	R1W7160TL3JBWD	1580173349	236183680	Outdoor Water Features: 16 Easy-to-Build Projects For Your Yard and Garden	Books	5	53	55	N	N	Your Garden Will Be Alive - With the Sound of Water	Do you like the refreshing sound of lemonade trickling into a glass, only you wish it would last longer?  The relaxing sound of running water is refreshing and also attracts wildlife.  This book has 16 projects you can build, most quite easily, with simple, readily available materials that will add sound and visual interest to your yard.  <br />The book has information about tools, materials and plants, well illustrated with photographs and watercolor drawings.  There are even maintenance tips.  Some of the projects are as small as container fountains and some as large as ponds.  They even discuss &quot;bog gardening.&quot;  Most of the designs fall in the small to medium size range.<br />Among the more interesting projects is a &quot;Japanese Deer Scarer&quot; which is an animated bamboo fixture that beats on a rock while dumping water.  Also unique is a &quot;Wine Bottle Spray Fountain.&quot;  (We are avidly gathering the materials for this one as I write.)  There are several that utilize sheet copper parts and one made from glass bricks.<br />There are lots of good tips on design that you can use for your own variations.  If you are only going to buy one book on outdoor water features, get this one.  It is sure to be an inspiration for your next weekend &quot;water&quot; project.	2001-05-17
US	52885527	R157HFXQDSVS8R	0898156270	306442888	How to Shit in the Woods, Second Edition: An Environmentally Sound Approach to a Lost Art	Books	4	68	73	N	N	Comprehensive Guide for the &quot;Fecal Tourist&quot;	Despite the vulgarisms in the title and splattered throughout the text, there is a load of good information contained in this book. Having been a Boy Scout, I thought I was well prepared for these weighty contingencies. But, I found that the Boy Scout Handbook was deficient when it came to defacation.<br />Ms. Meyer punctilios not only techniques for maintaining privacy and decorum while relieving oneself, but the environmental consequences of so doing. She vents about fecal-born bacteria and disease and how to minimize contaminating surface and ground water. The precautions that must be taken to avoid disease when drinking backcountry water are discharged here, too.<br />There are also heaps of anecdotes and funny stories, that will have you rolling at the foibles of the less informed &quot;eliminators.&quot; She covers methods for many types of terrain and ecosystems and also spouts information on the delicate subject of off-road &quot;runs.&quot;<br />If you are planning a backcountry trip, guided or not, I'd suggest you &quot;dig in&quot; to this book before departing. Through its guidance you can avoid piles of potential embarressment and, at the same time, be more friendly to the environment. Urine good hands with Kathleen Meyer's book. No ifs, ands, or butts. And, wipe that smirk off your face!!!	2001-05-16
US	52885527	R1CN12YVPEJGJ4	1580630995	906823701	Clean Your Clothes with Cheez Whiz: And Hundreds of Offbeat Uses for Dozens More Brand-Name Products	Books	5	12	13	N	N	A Riot of Unconventional Uses for Ordinary Products	Joey Green details alternative uses for almost three dozen common products, available at a store near you.  He also gives a brief history of each product, ingredients and their web addresses.  He also has &quot;strange facts&quot; about the products.<br />Did you know that Cheez Whiz of Cool Whip are also substitute shaving creams?  How about cleaning your toilet with Gatorade, Country Time Lemonade or Dr. Pepper?  It's amazing how many things we eat are also effective for house cleaning.  Scope and Baby Oil will keep the flies off your horses, too.  M&amp;M's are apparently great bass bait, as well as a tasty snack.  Cheez Whiz can also prevent &quot;split ends&quot; in your hair.<br />Some of the uses will crack you up, other make you say &quot;yuch!&quot;  But, this is an amusing read that you will find educational, as well.  If you want a good laugh and get new insights of the items you have under the sink, in the fridge or on the can shelf, get this book.  You can even play &quot;guess what product I'm talking about&quot; with your wife on a long car ride.<br />No, I don't think I'll shave with Cheez Whiz anytime soon.  Cool Whip, maybe......	2001-04-29
US	52885527	R30XOZUG51R0AB	0399512578	840215682	Calligraphy Alphabets Made Easy: Master the Art of Beautiful Writing Quickly and Simply, as You Learn a New	Books	5	62	64	N	N	Great Resource, Letter by Letter	My wife took a caligraphy class and when she wanted to get a book of alphabets, we went right to Amazon, and here it is.<br />The book has a variety of different &quot;fonts&quot; and some penstroke instructions for each one.  There are formal and whimsical styles, that will be appropriate for numerous different applications.  She has created awards and membership certificates for several organizations using the inspiration of this book.<br />If you are looking for a source of new and different styles for your caligraphic projects, this is the first book you should buy.  It has the greatest variety of practical alphabets that we have found.	2001-04-18
US	52885527	R304I3XZ9LGIX9	0688159028	143128823	Cucina & Famiglia: Two Italian Families Share Their Stories, Recipes, And Traditions	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Outstanding Recipes to Compliment Your BIG NIGHT	This book is a work of love, and as we all know...Food is Love.  This cookbook is as interesting to read as it is to use.  The stories of the emmigration of their families from Italy, bringing their culinary traditions with them and developing new ones in America, are as facinating as the food you'll prepare.<br />Joan Tropiano Tucci is the mother of actor Stanley Tucci, who wrote the forward and made the movie &quot;Big Night&quot; about a failing restaurant trying to come up with &quot;the&quot; signature dish to keep it alive.  The timpano recipe from the movie is here.<br />There are chapters on appetizers, eggs, soups, pasta, bread, different meats, seafood, vegetables and desserts.  Everything you need to know to prepare a fabulous meal for your family and friends is here.<br />Follow the recipes and you will enjoy a lush culinary experience that can only result from well developed family traditions.  Get out your Pavarotti records and get cookin'.  &quot;Most of the world eats to live, but the Italians live to eat.&quot;  Mange, mange!	2001-02-05
US	52885527	R89TRV2VOKQQ5	1565542827	394019487	Justin Wilson Looking Back: A Cajun Cookbook	Books	5	19	19	N	N	A Fun Cookbook to Read and Use	I bought this book after seeing reruns of Justin on TV a couple of years ago.  He has folksy comments about a variety of subjects on most pages.  I have tried a number of recipes and had some tasty results.  There are lots of family pictures sprinkled among the ingredients and instructions.  He starts out by explaining how to make roux.  I never could understand why anyone would buy it ready-made.  <br />Some of the ingredients may be difficult to come by in some areas, but you will find plenty of recipes with common ingredients.  He likes his dishes spicy and uses generous amounts of wine and Louisiana Hot Sauce in some.  There's nothin like a Jambalaya that makes your hair sweat!<br />You will also have an enjoyable book to sit back and browse through in your favorite comfy chair. Be sure and bring a glass of that beaujolais drinkin' wine - I garontee!	2001-02-05
US	52885527	R1O1GCZPTUOKLB	0062702475	957037891	Ordinary People, Extraordinary Wealth: The 8 Secrets of How 5,000 Ordinary Americans Became Successful Investors--and How You Can Too	Books	5	24	27	N	N	The Complex Made Easy	Ric Edelman has a gift of being able to distill complex financial situations into easy to understand concepts, explained in layman's terms.  His book shows how he counsels his clients and the results they have achieved as a result of his advice.  Wealth is achievable by anyone who desires it, given time and the proper discipline.  He provides insightful perspectives to help you duplicate the efforts of his clients.  <br />The key seems to be controlling the largest pool of assets you can, not necessarily owning them all outright.  At the same time, you must evaluate how you are using your resources, own appreciating, rather than depreciating assets with borrowed money.  Unlike books expounding on entrepreneurial efforts as the key to wealth, this book applies to anyone who is earning a living by some means.<br />Of course the future will never be the same as the past, but the strategies he outlines will perform relative to the whole situation just as well.  If you can only buy one book of financial advice, make this the one!  You won't be disappointed if you follow the strategies outlined in the book.	2001-02-05
US	52885527	R3HH1KOMD83KU3	0895262436	266973565	Sellout: The Inside Story of President Clinton's Impeachment	Books	5	0	1	N	N	Have High Blood Pessure?  Don't Read This Book......	I can hardly imagine that the tactics and procedures used in the case of Clinton's impeachment would be endorsed by our founding fathers, the framers of the constitution or any decent court interested in promulgating the Truth.  Mr. Schippers, a Democrat, indicts both Democrats and Republicans for withholding key evidence, promoting procedural blockades, leaking information, misrepresentations and ignoring the true thrust of his investigation: not sex; but lying, intimidation and tampering with witnesses and evidence in a pattern that extended over a period of years culminating in Paula Jones being denied an &quot;honest&quot; day in court.<br />Everytime Schippers was thrown a &quot;bone&quot; of procedural advancement, he found it riddled with worms.  He expresses his own opinion often, backed up by the facts that are almost common knowledge now.  He cites Democrats who expounded on the lack of evidence, having never studied one page of it.  He holds Republicans with a consiliatory &quot;lets get this over with as quickly and painlessly as possible&quot; attitude equally accountable to the limited scope and miscarriage of the impeachment trial.  All in the name of &quot;keeping enough peace&quot; for all the politicians involved to appear &quot;fair&quot; and be re-elected.  The Spin Doctors had tried and won the case, not the Senate relying on the evidence.<br />This is an absorbing, fist pounding read if you have any interest in politics or the carriage of Justice.  It does bog down at times while recounting testimony, but all is crucial to understanding the Big Picture.  After reading this, I have serious questions to ask members on both sides of the aisle and Al Gore before I could vote for them.<br />Lesson:  If you are ever indicted, get a Washington Democrat for a lawyer and have your case heard before a Republican Judiciary interested in &quot;fairness.&quot;  You'll be home for dinner.	2000-09-27
US	52885527	R1S487G2CDCHGG	0895262436	266973565	Sellout: The Inside Story of President Clinton's Impeachment	Books	5	7	11	N	N	Have High Blood Pessure?  Don't Read This Book......	I can hardly imagine that the tactics and procedures used in the case of Clinton's impeachment would be endorsed by our founding fathers, the framers of the constitution or any decent court interested in promulgating the Truth.  Mr. Schippers, a Democrat, indicts both Democrats and Republicans for withholding key evidence, promoting procedural blockades, leaking information, misrepresentations and ignoring the true thrust of his investigation: not sex; but lying, intimidation and tampering with witnesses and evidence in a pattern that extended over a period of years culminating in Paula Jones being denied an &quot;honest&quot; day in court.<br />Everytime Schippers was thrown a &quot;bone&quot; of procedural advancement, he found it riddled with worms.  He expresses his own opinion often, backed up by the facts that are almost common knowledge now.  He cites Democrats who expounded on the lack of evidence, having never studied one page of it.  He holds Republicans with a consiliatory &quot;lets get this over with as quickly and painlessly as possible&quot; attitude equally accountable to the limited scope and miscarriage of the impeachment trial.  All in the name of &quot;keeping enough peace&quot; for all the politicians involved to appear &quot;fair&quot; and be re-elected.  The Spin Doctors had tried and won the case, not the Senate relying on the evidence.<br />This is an absorbing, fist pounding read if you have any interest in politics or the carriage of Justice.  It does bog down at times while recounting testimony, but all is crucial to understanding the Big Picture.  After reading this, I have serious questions to ask members on both sides of the aisle and Al Gore before I could vote for them.<br />Lesson:  If you are ever indicted, get a Washington Democrat for a lawyer and have your case heard before a Republican Judiciary interested in &quot;fairness.&quot;  You'll be home for dinner.	2000-09-27
US	52885527	R1ADSSKXSI7D6W	1854797549	129854128	The History of Farting	Books	5	17	17	N	N	Juicy Collection of Humorous Nuggets	My Mother passed this book to me after she had vented its fare on her afternoon club.  It is divided into six chapters, each spouting limericks and anecdotes concerning various aspects of crepitation.  I found that I had a &quot;whiff of a memory&quot; of several of the dozens of limericks, a poetic form particularly suited to the subject of flatulence.  There are airy songs, putrid prose and smudgy cartoons throughout the book.  The final chapter, &quot;The A-Z of Farting,&quot; expounds on preponderant and pathetic forms of flatulence, which have been so prevalent among man (and woman) for as long as the wind has blown.<br />If you are looking for a good laugh and enjoy nature in its rudest form, this all to brief, passing wisp of wit will tickle and inspire you.  Put in your &quot;bubba teeth,&quot; grab a beer and read this on your next airline flight.   FFRRRRRRRRRRRUPUPUPUP!  Excuse Me.	2000-09-26
US	52885527	R3VRS385X492RM	0399144463	305463091	Who Moved My Cheese?: An Amazing Way to Deal with Change in Your Work and in Your Life	Books	4	17	21	N	N	Behold, The Power of Metaphor	The four characters in pursuit of the metaphorical &quot;cheese&quot; in this book exhibit various character traits, anthropomorphized in two mice  and two miniature people, existing in the metaphorical &quot;maze&quot; of  life.  At first they find an ample supply and become complacent after  finding it in the same place, &quot;Cheese Station 'C',&quot; every day.   One morning they return to find the cheese absent.<br />The two mice, Sniff  and Scurry, approach the problem of the change in the &quot;cheese&quot;  supply by simply taking action, setting out to look for more.  The two  small people, Hem and Haw, approach the problem of missing  &quot;cheese&quot; by rationalizing the situation over and over, rather  than realize that they just need to take action and look for more somewhere  else.  Finally, Haw reaches the turning point in his life when he sets out  on his own and learns to laugh at himself and his predicament, as well as  taking a chance by going in a previously untraveled direction.  He  reapeatedly tries to convince Hem to try the new route to  &quot;cheese&quot; which he has had limited initial success attaining, but  Hem insists on waiting for his old &quot;cheese,&quot; which he felt  entitled to, to return.  Haw emerges as the hero of the story, adapting to  change and eventually liking it, along the way leaving &quot;writing on the  wall&quot; to inspire Hem, should he ever follow.  <br />We live in an era of  rapid changes and the reader can interpret the &quot;cheese&quot; almost  infinitly as a metaphor to some aspects of their own life, be it work  habits, routines or personal life.  (Who said, &quot;the only constant in  life is change?&quot;)  This book is not an answer, but as with all  metaphorical parables, an inspiration to broader thinking.  It is short,  easy to read and printed in larger type (probably to make the book appear  longer.)  It can be finished in one sitting, but the thought process will  probably continue for some time, as you discover the different flavors of  &quot;cheese&quot; in your life.  If you enjoy metaphorical thinking, you  will enjoy this book and find it useful.  If nothing else, you will find a  new set of cliches in the &quot;writing on the wall.&quot;	2000-08-17
US	52885527	R1JW99HW82RAS2	0071348999	216108387	Cabinets and Countertops (Complete Construction)	Books	5	11	13	N	N	Great Handbook for Cabinet Construction	This book really does cover it all - from outfitting your workshop to installation.  It is well illustrated with B&amp;W photographs and drawings of about everything he is writing about.  There is a prioritized list of  tools &amp; equipment as well as advice on choosing a workspace.  He  reviews a large number of tools, which was nice as he confirmed my choice  of a JET tablesaw as appropriate.<br />He also lists common dimensions of  appliances you will need to build around and has examples of CAD drawings  in many styles.  Construction techniques are covered as well as which tools  work best for each task.  He has whole sections on kitchen workspace layout  and installation methods. <br />If you are thinking of building kitchen  cabinets for fun or for a living, this is the only book you need to see how  to do it.  If you are looking for lots of color pictures of creative  designs, look elsewhere.  This is mostly a technical manual, written in a  conversational style that makes it interesting to read.  It is an essential  book in your woodworking library.	2000-07-12
US	52885527	RFUE75X6QVWEU	0446608246	454735144	The Protein Power Lifeplan Gram Counter	Books	5	76	78	N	N	Great Guide to Meaningful Nutritional Numbers	I started the &quot;Protein Power&quot; lifestyle change nearly a year ago and am maintaining my weight loss by &quot;keeping score&quot; of what I eat.  This guide is an essential reference on that count.  I wish I'd had  it when I started last year.  It is especially handy if you are traveling  on this diet; it is not as bulky as the whole Protein Power book.  (See my  review of &quot;Protein Power&quot;; &quot;Prove Your Mother Wrong, Eat  Prime Rib!&quot;)  <br />It is arranged by food groups: Breads, Cereals and  Grains; Dairy Products; Fish, Seafood and Shellfish; Fruits and Fruit  Juices; and so on.  I never realized how many species of fish we eat until  I leafed through that section!  They list lots of foods I didn't even know  were edible or available.<br />It lists the ECC (Effective Carbohydrate  Count), Fiber, Calories, Protein, Saturated Fat, Monounsaturated Fat,  Omega-6 and Omega-3 fat ratios as appropriate for each category of food.   All foods omit some of the categories that are not significant for them.   All foods list the Calories and Omega fats.<br />There is a good introduction  with some backround information on why each category scored for each food  is important.  It does not go into any detail about the whole diet plan, so  this is truely a supplement to the original diet book.  There is also a  brief area in the back with lists of &quot;rich sources&quot; for several  key nutrients.<br />If you have a thorough understanding of the &quot;Protein  Power&quot; diet and lifeplan and why this data is important, this book  will be a valuable reference.  I wouldn't buy it until you have read the  complete diet book unless you are just looking for a &quot;calorie  counter.&quot;	2000-07-06
US	52885527	R24VK8LWUM6V0F	0963824805	944835180	The Bat House Builder's Handbook	Books	5	70	71	N	N	Going Batty?  Here's Your Book.	This is an excellent source of information on bats as well as their abodes.  The book contains the results of years of research on size, color and placement of bathouses.  Builders are even invited to participate in  ongoing bat research through membership in Bat Conservation International  (application card included).  There is lots of information on the  importance of bats in the environment; their almost insatiable appetite for  harmful insects.  There is also information on identifying the species of  North American bats you may host, including B&amp;W Pictures.<br />There are  detailed plans giving the size and spacing of roosting boards, openings and  ventilation of your houses.  He gives a source for the netting that you  need to cover the roosts with, but I am using the mesh bags from onions as  a substitute.  I was able to find some dark colored ones that will be  appropriate.<br />My wife is looking forward to collecting guano (poopoo) from  under the houses - bat guano is an excellent source of free fertilizer for  your porch plants.	2000-06-25
US	52885527	R37VWF61QCNX5Z	0785807411	21136861	Build Your Own Birdhouses: From Simple, Natural Designs to Spectacular, Customized Houses and Feeders	Books	5	54	54	N	N	Beautiful Book, Great Plans	Perkins begins the book with some backround bird and woodworking information that will be useful for the beginner.  He then gets into plans for 19 houses and 7 feeders.<br />Each project includes color photos of the  completed house or feeder - these are not just the figments of a writer's  imagination.  There are detailed, measured, exploded color drawings of each  house.  His designs include several different methods of access for  cleaning out the houses after each nesting period.  I particularly like the  &quot;slide&quot; designs - no tools or dropped screws to worry  about.<br />Some of these houses are so pretty, I don't know if I would want  to put them out in the yard.  I suppose with a little imagination, you  could scale his designs to meet the needs of a variety of species.  He has  a breif, one page chart showing entrance sizes for some birds.  He also  show &quot;slot&quot; as well as round entrance options on some of his  designs.  I still keep referring back to Scott D. Campbell's &quot;The  Complete Book of Birdhouse Construction for Woodworkers&quot; as a more  complete technical reference. (See that review on Amazon.)<br />Overall, this  is a very good book on birdhouses, very inspirational for the imaginative  bird &quot;landlord.&quot;  This book is profusely illustrated with color  photos and drawings; it could be a &quot;coffee table&quot; book if you  don't get it filled with sawdust!	2000-06-25
US	52885527	R25LI2NSOEO8LI	0517093693	231572952	Knots and How to Tie Them	Books	5	19	20	N	N	Rope in Hand, I Opened the Cover......	This book was originally published in 1961 and I suspect, parts of it appeared in &quot;The Boy Scout Handbook&quot; during the 60's.  It covers a large variety of knots and tricks, too.  Each subject is accompanied by  hand drawn pictures of the knot being described as well as a clear  description of how to tie it.  Two rope knots are illustrated with one dark  and one light strand to make them clearer.  Uses and nicknames of the  various knots are also included.  The knots are divided into sections in  the book, arranged by similarity of application.  <br />This is a great  reference for anyone who works with rope, from a Boy Scout to a Sailor.   Teamsters all use ratcheting nylon straps now, but the original method of  tieing down with ropes can be learned in this book.  There are knots for  Cowboys, Fishermen and Magicians.  Even Decorators could learn a few fancy  knots here.  There are dozens of knots here for many purposes.<br />When you  order this book, get a rope, or two!	2000-06-25
US	52885527	RNVYMU74HOZUU	0486244075	774743756	The Complete Book of Birdhouse Construction for Woodworkers (Dover Woodworking)	Books	5	78	79	N	N	The Best Little Technical Reference for Birdhouse Builders	This book is short and to the point, well researched and documented.  There is a bibliography in the back that is helpful for further reading.  <br />The plans in this book are for simple, unadorned, basic shelter for  birds.  Even if you want to build fancy &quot;designer&quot; birdhouses,  you need this book to discover the entrance size, location and interior  requirements for dozens of species of birds.  He even gives great tips on  how to locate your completed shelters, including population density for  most species covered.  There is an amazing amount of information in this 48  page book.<br />I would highly recommend this book for anyone contemplating  building birdhouses.  Your success as a bird &quot;landlord&quot; will be  assured!	2000-06-12
US	52885527	ROR7KETJ2OQLP	1572230495	705768441	Build a Better Birdhouse (Or Feeder): New Designs in Avian Architecture	Books	4	15	16	N	N	Creative, But Not Technical	Once you plow through the diatribe condemming man for destroying the bird's environment, there are a lot of creative ideas here if you want to build birdhouses and nesting platforms.  The book is illustrated with  freehand drawings that can be hard to follow, but this is not meant to be a  book of plans, more as an inspiration to the creative.<br />There is a brief  chart showing the diameter of entrance hole for a few species, but it is  not as complete as other sources.  He does not get into any great detail  about where to mount houses, proper interior sizes or spacing for the  different species.<br />Most of his designs are for pole mounted houses and he  gives some creative ideas for poles.  Several ideas are for wall mounted  houses.  He does have a few designs for hanging houses.  One of the more  interesting houses is a pole mounted &quot;earth sheltered&quot; nesting  platform.<br />If you want more technical information, I'd suggest Scott D.  Campbell's &quot;The Complete Book of Birdhouse Construction for  Woodworkers&quot; (available from Amazon.com.) Campbell's book is an  excellent companion to Well's book and a basic technical reference for  building birdshouses.  You can modify the creative designs in Well's book  to conform to the researched standards in Cambell's book.<br />The more  information you have before you start, the better your results will be!	2000-06-12
US	52885527	R2IZ3NHGYMT8QF	1887006001	218683148	Values-Based Selling : The Art of Building High-Trust Client Relationships	Books	5	45	48	N	N	Should Be: &quot;Values Based Relationships&quot;	This book is not so much about selling as it is the way you relate to your clients.  I read this several years ago and did not really start using the techniques in earnest until I went to Bill's &quot;Values Based  Academy&quot; last June.  The academy is also a recommended activity, but  read the book first; better yet, get Bill's &quot;Mastery System&quot; that  includes the book, video and cassette tapes and other supporting materials.   If nothing else, I know more about my clients and am able to make more  appropriate recommendations to them.  It makes the discovery process in  financial planning much smoother.  I have not yet been able to semi-retire  and make more money, but I am making more money.  I find that my referral  level has increased.<br />It is an easy read, but pay attention and practice,  practice, practice!	2000-05-10
US	52885527	R268XZODTJ1LLO	0553574752	243454269	Protein Power: The High-Protein/Low Carbohydrate Way to Lose Weight, Feel Fit, and Boost Your Health-in Just Weeks!	Books	5	31	34	N	Y	Prove Your Mother Wrong!  Eat Prime Rib!	I have been on this &quot;lifestyle change&quot; since July of 1999.  Before starting the diet, I ate lowfat pasta, bagels and veggies in an attempt to keep the weight off.  I had done this for about 3 years and had  put on about 10 lbs/year, even while skipping dinner several nights a week.  My cholesterol had soared to 260!  This diet is not so much about what you  DO eat, but what you DON'T eat.<br />A friend told me about this book so I  bought it, READ THE WHOLE THING and started the plan.  By the second week I  was losing about a pound a day!  I leveled off several months later 45 lbs  lighter, 4+&quot; off my waist and with my cholesterol down to 210.  That  was last fall, so I plan to get it checked again.  I also found that after  about two weeks on the initial stage, I did not have the desire for the  volume of food I wanted before.  The book tells you that is because dietary  fat releases a hormone that makes you feel satiated.  Many times, all I  want for dinner is a couple of slices of ham wraped around a piece of  cheese and a salad.<br />My favorite meal was to go to the casino in Kansas  City for the Crab Leg Buffet.  I would get a soup bowl full of butter and  eat crab until the butter was gone.  I would top it off with a mixed green  salad with ranch dressing.  I learned to skip the bread and dessert bars.  That is a satisfying meal!<br />The key to success with any endeaver is a  desire and commitment to succeed.  This diet is no exception.  During the  first six weeks, you cannot &quot;cheat!&quot;  After that you can  &quot;treat&quot; yourself to a sweet dessert or a baked potato a couple of  times a week, but you can never go back to French Fries at every meal,  pastries &amp; donuts for breakfast and gallons of sugared up drinks/week.  After being off sugar for the first six weeks, I actually found myself  feeling a little nauseous after eating two pieces of pie.<br />Of course it is  a bit of a struggle during holidays and potluck dinners, but if you watch  what you eat for the following several days, you will not regain weight.  I  feel better than I have in several years.  I have taken ten years of weight  gain off - now if I could only change my birth certificate to match!, but if you watch  what you eat for the following several days, you will not regain weight.  I  feel better than I have in several years.  I have taken ten years of weight  gain off - now if I could only change my birth certificate to match!	2000-04-29
