US	52887769	R33TZXZLQHGRY3	0689849230	933414308	The First Part Last	Books	5	3	4	N	N	A very important book for all teens to read	This is a deceptively simple book with a very strong message.  It has short paragraphs, short chapters, and it is thin overall, but it packs a major punch with the storyline.  I admire Johnson for writing such an important book that is accessible to all levels of teen readers.<br /><br />The story is that of teen father Bobby and his infant daughter Feather, told in alternating chapters between \\"Then\\" (the day Bobby found out his girlfriend was pregnant, and the aftermath) and \\"Now\\" (Bobby's struggles as a single parent in high school who loves his daughter more than life itself).  The mystery of why Bobby is a single parent, why he kept the baby against his parents' wishes, and where Feather's mother is slowly unravels as the \\"Then\\" and \\"Now\\" storylines converge.<br /><br />This is an essential piece of literature for teenagers, both male and female, to read.  Even though Bobby loves Feather, she brings a heck of a lot of stress and complication to his life.  Reading about Bobby's struggles is bound to make any teenager think again about contraception and responsible actions.  I highly recommend this short but powerful book to all teen readers.	2005-10-12
US	52887769	R37BJW34FD8IDI	1555838898	548865376	Blue Days, Black Nights: A Memoir	Books	5	5	6	N	N	A tribute to a troubled man	Nyswaner's memoir purports to be the tale of his depressed (blue) days, from which he seeks escape with alcohol and drugs, culminating in rock-bottom blackout (black) nights.  It's an intriguing hook because Nyswaner has been highly successful as the screenwriter for Philadelpia and other award-winning movies, so of course we'd love to read about his rock-bottom days, right?  The book isn't really about Nyswaner's self-destruction, though--it is a tribute to the teetotaling larger-than-life male prostitute who comes into Nyswaner's life for less than a year.  This book is the tale of Nyswaner's friendship with a man he pays for sex, sex which he can only have when he is strung out on drugs.  The book's prologue opens with the hustler's death, so from the minute we enter Nyswaner's life, we know their time is limited.<br /><br />As a reader, I was touched by Nyswaner's addiction, his search for himself, his continual attempts to find happiness through chemicals, and his devotion to the hustler Johann.  There's a beautiful story in here, even if Nyswaner's relationship with Johann was mostly one-sided.  Highly recommended.	2005-10-12
US	52887769	R1GFLKHR6PSH9I	0689852231	547932192	The House of the Scorpion	Books	5	32	35	N	N	A winner for middle school and up, both male and female readers	This is YA fiction at its best:  an epic story about life-changing events and human strength, appropriate for middle schoolers but totally readable for any teen or adult reader, and a book that can be enjoyed by male or female readers.  The protagonist, Matteo, is male, but the story is universal and not to be missed by any literature fan.  This is one of those books that can change a middle schooler from a non-reader to a reader.<br /><br />The story unfolds gradually, as we learn about Matt and his life as a clone, a second-class citizen, growing up in the sprawling mansion of rich and powerful feudal drug lord El Patron, the man from whose DNA Matt was cloned.  Matt is unsure of his place in the world, and he needs to learn about the inner workings of the household and its members, the robot-like people who farm opium, the politics of the land El Patron rules between the US and Mexico, as well as Matt's own purpose in life (why did El Patron make a clone?  Is Matt his ultimate heir or is there a darker purpose?).  The reader is along for Matt's journey of self-discovery, as he figures out who to trust and where the real truth lies.  Along the way, Matt finds love as well as boyhood friendship and bonding.<br /><br />There's an important lesson in here about the fate of those who grow up inside cults:  When Matt figures out what is right and wrong in the world, will he be able to make the right choice and reject the powerful but evil man who brought him into this world?  What if your hero is a kind man to you, but reviled by the rest of the world?<br /><br />Another interesting aspect of the story is the way the future echoes the past.  In the futuristic world of House of the Scorpion, some places have reverted to the dark ages, with feudal lords ruling over people who can do nothing but farm the land.  Students of history will have an interesting time contrasting the future portrayed in this book with the \\"evils\\" of the past.<br /><br />The epic story of Matt's childhood, personal growth, and his final destiny makes for great reading.  This is highly recommended to readers of all ages.  My one complaint is that it starts a little slow, and the majority of the action is packed into the second half, so if you are having trouble getting into this book, I implore you to charge on, because the journey is very worthwhile.  In addition to the national awards bestowed on this book, it was also the RI Teen Book Award winner for 2005.his final destiny makes for great reading.  This is highly recommended to readers of all ages.  My one complaint is that it starts a little slow, and the majority of the action is packed into the second half, so if you are having trouble getting into this book, I implore you to charge on, because the journey is very worthwhile.  In addition to the national awards bestowed on this book, it was also the RI Teen Book Award winner for 2005.	2005-10-12
US	52887769	R2MS8GXE9202ZK	0312311028	505085237	Behind Bars: The Straight-Up Tales of a Big-City Bartender	Books	5	4	7	N	N	An insightful and intriguing memoir from a one-of-a-kind woman	The narrator, Ty, is unique as a Turkish-born Muslim woman who came to America, got her degree, worked a few unsatisfying fashion industry desk jobs, and finally found fulfillment working for a decade in a hip and crowded bar/restaurant.  Her anecdotes are funny, strange, heart-warming, voyeuristic, and downright delightful to read.<br /><br />Wenzel organizes her tales into a series of chapters that focus on the dating scene for bartenders, what tipping is like (and how it affects bartenders), the Cosmopolitan craze, her \\"regulars,\\" the insufferable bar theme nights, restaurant hygeine, and practical tips for entering the bartending trade (Wenzel reports that bartending school diplomas are worthless).<br /><br />Wenzel has a big chip on her shoulder about men who order frou-frou drinks.  She also claims that the popularity of the Cosmopolitan and the \\"pink drinks\\" is the downfall of a liquor-appreciating society.  And don't even get her started on those messy blended ice drinks!!<br /><br />The prose is scattered with Wenzel's instructive pet peeves, which include:  customers who beg after last call, customers who grab her for attention, foreigners who pretend they don't know American tipping customs, people who just graze on the garnishes, and more.  Wenzel is also an outspoken critic of anti-smoking regulations, claiming that people come to bars to drink, smoke, let loose, and have fun, and bartenders know what kind of lifestyle they are signing up for when they accept the job.<br /><br />Wenzel's narrative is free-flowing and loosely structured, and overall, the style works.  As a reader, I was left wondering about the resolution of Wenzel's panic attacks and how exactly she met her husband, but even with these mysteries obscured, Wenzel's memoir makes for great reading.  I wish this book had reached a wider audience, and I'm going to do everything I can to recommend it.	2005-10-12
US	52887769	RQERAV59N5MHS	1582344795	396832324	Suburban Safari: A Year on the Lawn	Books	5	10	10	N	N	Don't be scared by the subject matter--this is a fast-paced and fun book!	Even though this book was so highly recommended, I had trouble picking it up.  A year examining the backyard?  What?<br /><br />As soon as I started the book, through, I was hooked on the intense social lives of Holmes's crows, the eating and gathering habits of her local chipmunk, her people-wary squirrel clan (many of whom lost parts of their tails), the oh-so-important bugs, and more.  I'm not generally a reader of biology and nature books, so trust me when I say this book reaches across genres to the armchair reader.<br /><br />In fact, Holmes supports her thrilling narrative with citations from many biology books.  I can only imagine how dry these texts are, and I thank her for giving us the \\"best parts\\" in narrative form.  I learned about the navigational skills of robins and the extensive scientific studies conducted on the species, as well as the fact that hummingbirds have to learn to love the color red for its sugar, and many a baby hummingbird can be found picking at dry brown leaves and stems.  Holmes also discusses experiments that were conducted to learn how squirrels know to eat white oak acorns (which germinate before winter) and save red oak acorns (which can be stored through winter without germination).  Holmes manages to pack all this scientific information and more into a terrific narrative about a woman and her backyard.<br /><br />This book is highly recommended.  I can think of nothing else that compares, and the story of Hannah and her backyard is anything but mundane.	2005-10-12
US	52887769	R2861ZVWL2OUQQ	0786868198	689791533	Lipstick Jungle	Books	5	9	12	N	N	Welcome to the power women of the Lipstick Jungle	Bushnell has turned chick lit on its head by writing about women who have the power, the money, the success, the drive, and the charcter flaws usually associated with men.  These aren't hangers-on who are looking to find a man to fund their shopping and lunching habits.  Lipstick Jungle is the story of three major power NY players, all attractive and abitious women, working on furthering their careers even more.  We have Wendy, a movie producer angling to earn a few Oscars for her films and pull a big budget film out of the doldrums.  There's Victory, a fashion designer whose done well the past few years, but wants to become a major player and make her business more secure.  And there's Nico, a trendy magazine executive who is angling to put her boss out of a job and move up even further in the world.<br /><br />The male-female relationship dynamic is flipped upside down in this book.  Two of these women have husbands who earn far less than they do (and Wendy's husband Shane is a slacker who spends her money on clothes and personal care and failed business ventures).  Wendy enjoys her movie location shoots as an escape from a trying home life with three children.  Nico, the executive, finds satisfaction in an affair with a boy-toy who could be compared to Janey from Trading Up with his vacant lifestyle and ladder climbing attempts.  The one single character, Victory, struggles with dating a billionaire, because she's accustomed to her millionaire lifestyle and doesn't want to become dependent on a man and his money.<br /><br />Bushnell's fans will find some familiar characters in this book, namely Seldon Rose from Trading Up, who becomes a player in Wendy's professional and personal life.  Comstock Dibble and his fizzled out career are also mentioned in passing.  However, this book is different enough from her previous works that I think Bushnell might pick up some new fans, women who don't know every shoe and handbag manufacturer of the moment, but who would like to read an exciting and dynamic book about women trying to balance their quest for power with their personal and family lives.ng and dynamic book about women trying to balance their quest for power with their personal and family lives.	2005-10-09
US	52887769	R3LEI8EXUB1TI5	0767915054	358484575	A Girl Named Zippy	Books	5	4	4	N	N	'Zippy' is a true winner; give this one a shot!	When I first got this book, I was a little apprehensive about the \\"droll and distinctive\\" look at the \\"smallness of a rambunctious yet thoughtful child's world.\\"  A few pages into Zippy's series of essays about her childhood, her family, and her town, I was completely hooked.  Kimmel just lets facts drop, never finding the need to over-explain a situation or force the reader to a conclusion (it takes a few hints for the reader to figure out her family is Quaker).  I loved the style, and I laughed out loud and fondly remembered my own childhood at many junctures.<br /><br />This is a book that has wide appeal across generations.  I loved it as a twentysomething, and I gave it to my friends, my parents, and my grandparents this past Christmas, and they all adored the stories, too.  It's rare that I find a book that I can share with people of every generation with such success.<br /><br />Take a chance on the stories of Zippy and you will not be disappointed.  Be prepared to order a few extra copies to share.	2005-10-07
US	52887769	R3ON4EB5QRKWO6	0743257480	602349387	Hidden: A Novel	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Inside the mind of someone who is losing theirs	Author Paul Jaskunas does a terrific job taking us inside the mind of a woman who can't trust her own memories, portraying her confusion with her own mind and her frequent epileptic seizures.  All of this was the result of a violent assault for which her husband was convicted, but for which many believe he was innocent, wrongly fingered and convicted.  Where does the truth lie?  Will Maggie ever get out of her downward spiral?  All these elements of the book will haunt the reader and compel you to keep turning the pages.<br /><br />As the back story of the events leading up to the assault is filled in, the reader sees the portrait of a marriage between two very young individuals who hadn't formed separate identities before getting wrapped up in one another.  The story of Maggie and Nate's relationship helps the reader form their own opinion about the assault and subsequent trial.<br /><br />I'm impressed at how well Jaskunas was able to capture the point of view of a woman.  This novel was beautifully written and a compelling read.  I wasn't thrilled with the end, but I'll leave everyone to make up their own mind.	2005-10-07
US	52887769	R33KW82H0CY311	1573226114	164275315	Depth Takes a Holiday	Books	4	0	1	N	N	Life in Los Angeles during the Internet boom	Picking this up nearly a decade after its original publication is a fun treat, for exploring \\"the way we were\\" and seeing how some things never change.  Some reviewers have claimed you need to live in LA and be aware of pop culture to understand this book, and to some degree, a familiarity with her subject matter does help, but I think the book is overall very accessible.  It's a series of essays, so if you run into one that doesn't do it for you, browse on to the next.  Some of these were magazine pieces, and I can imagine reading them in Jane magazine back in the mid-1990's.  Loh takes on subjects ranging from the interior of IKEA to being a cheap but demanding consumer, her failed modeling attempts, an expose on a Palm Spring lesbian conference, and her father's on-going battles with his neighbors.  Overall, this is a fun read for anyone who lived through those times.	2005-10-07
US	52887769	R16XKQLBW5KZF	0452284554	111902659	Riding the Bus with My Sister: A True Life Journey	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Thank you for showing us this world, Rachel	This book came highly recommended, but I was wary of the subject matter--Rachel is going to take a year of her life and ride buses with her special needs sister, Beth?  The parameters of the arrangement made more sense--Rachel spent a couple of days every two weeks living with her sister and spending the entire day doing what Beth does, which is riding the city buses.  Rachel was able to maintain her own life, but made room to drastically expand her horizons by living intimately with her sister.<br /><br />The story is as much a glimpse into the world of Beth as it is a tale of self-discovery for Rachel, who realized that her sister had met every single bus driver in her town and 1/6 of them were her dear friends.  To Rachel, these people were philosophers, counselors, and observers of human behavior.  Rachel wondered when anyone else had gotten to 1/6 of the people in a given profession.<br /><br />I was struck (as Rachel was) by the lack of \\"right\\" answers in her sister Beth's care.  Professionals had wide differences of opinion about the way Beth lived, without a job, and the principles of self-determination.  Beth refused to take care of herself (including basic hygiene), and professionals had different opinions of what level of forced care should take place.<br /><br />A subtle undertone to the book asks how accomplishment and satisfaction are defined.  Rachel thought she was accomplished before her year on the buses, but she learned that Beth had built herself a much stronger support system for her own life.  People poured out to support Beth when she was sick.<br /><br />Other reviewers have chided Rachel for starting with such a negative and ignorant view of her sister.  I think that is what gives this book its magic--Rachel never set out to be a crusader for human rights and to change the world.  She was selfish in the beginning, and she struggled with her anger and her own shortcomings throughout the story.  She is able to draw the reader in by being candid about her own flaws, never defining herself as the new patron saint for people with special needs.  This is an eye-opening account of two sisters and how they learned about and grew with one another.  Highly recommended.ng candid about her own flaws, never defining herself as the new patron saint for people with special needs.  This is an eye-opening account of two sisters and how they learned about and grew with one another.  Highly recommended.	2005-10-07
US	52887769	RCI5PXW7V22PR	0375422986	960033606	The Sunday Philosophy Club : An Isabel Dalhousie Mystery	Books	3	5	5	N	N	Definitely a disappointment for No 1 Ladies Detective Series fans	Alexander McCall Smith won me over with the No 1 Ladies Detective Agency--I was transfixed by Mma Ramotswe and her special brand of folk wisdom used to solve crimes and domestic disputes.  He's set the reader up for another series of mysteries, this time with an Scottish heroine, and frankly, I'm disappointed.<br /><br />Isabel, our hero in this mystery, is nothing more than a nosy neighbor with an active imagination.  Heck, this lady creates drama were ever she goes.  Half her theories are outlandish and completely wrong.  She is completely missing the folkish charm of McCall Smith's first mystery heroine.  She's also tediously concerned with manners, agonizing over every interaction to the point of boring the reader to death.<br /><br />The strong point of this novel was Isabel's applied ethical dilemmas, which were tangential to the story.  I enjoyed reading about the morality of being overweight, the place of gene-testing in marital infidelity, the ethics of gambling, and the relevance of telling the absolute \\"truth\\" in amorous relationships, among other topics.  When Isabel switched from applied ethics to agonizing over manners and morality in her own life, the story really started to drag.<br /><br />Overall, there was truly no action in this book.  The mystery was resolved on a very subtle note.  The highest point of drama was the interpersonal relationship between Isabel and her niece Cat.  I'm left not wanting to read any more about Isabel Dalhousie.	2005-10-06
US	52887769	R15NQN4F3RQWPS	0316010812	919631242	The Hamilton Case: A Novel	Books	4	4	4	N	N	A rich text told in two different parts	When I picked up this book, I was presented with a series of charming but not seemingly connected anecdotes about life in the island nation of Ceylon.  They were interesting stories, but not a connected narrative, and I kept wondering when the mystery of the \\"Hamilton Case\\" was going to come up.<br /><br />It turns out that there is a lot of introductory anecdotal text before the reader is treated to the \\"Hamilton Case.\\"  I've read that some reviewers didn't get through the book, and I encourage everyone to stick around until they get to the mystery.  The book takes off from there.  This is an excellent piece of historical fiction and a rich literary tale.	2005-10-06
US	52887769	R2C8AAKSVFU3LU	0802138845	761128536	Crawling at Night: A Novel	Books	4	2	2	N	N	A challenging read that leaves the reader wondering about the characters	Another reviewer has already said it--the flashbacks in this novel make it a bit difficult to follow, at first.  As soon as the reader gets involved, however, the flashbacks are essential to filling in the backstories of the sushi chef Ito, the alcoholic waitress Marianne, a Vietnamese boat refugee, and an exotic massage parlour worker.  The entire novel takes place in two short nights, but the flashbacks constitute the core of the story, and the many American and Asian characters that make up this complicated and tragic tale.<br /><br />As an American, the alcoholic waitress Marianne is the one I most closely identify with, as she lost her child to child protective services and moved to the city with big dreams (or delusions) of earning her way back into respectable life.  I wonder how Japanese and Vietnamese immigrants feel about the portrayal of their heritage in this book.<br /><br />This is a beautifully written tragedy, and for anyone who enjoyed this book, I highly recommend Andre Dubus III's The House of Sand and Fog.	2005-10-06
US	52887769	R2YDJPIGMICRUC	0060761563	244855550	Playground: A Childhood Lost Inside the Playboy Mansion	Books	4	18	21	N	N	Fascinating subject matter: life in the fast lane	Saginor opens her memoir with a narrative about exploring the sights and the sounds (the pools, the games, the people, the food) of the Playboy Mansion when she first visited at the tender age of six.  The book is about how Saginor's father, Hugh Hefner's close friend and personal doctor, shaped her self-image and her life-long interactions with women.  She writes with a tone of reflection and analysis, explaining how her father used her to punish her mother and how her father manipulated her like he did all his girlfriends and the Playmate wannabes.  At one point, Saginor comments that her troubled relationship with an older woman grew out of her search for a mother figure, while her sister repeatedly got involved with sketchy older men in search of a father figure.<br /><br />The parties and scenes captured in this book are delicious time capsules of the fashions, the drugs, the music, and the celebrities of the early 1980's.  At the end of the book, Saginor contrasts the heyday of the Playboy Mansions with the current strict security and drug-free (on the surface) environment.  Overall, this is a quick and telling read about life in the fast lane and the consequences of living large.	2005-10-06
US	52887769	RB3RJG6GRNGNN	0385504489	963774493	Stranger Than Fiction: True Stories	Books	4	3	3	N	N	A medley of stories, some hit the mark better than the rest	When Palahniuk goes on book tours, he often tells a smattering of true-life stories that he heard from his fans, all items that are indeed stranger than fiction.  From a man who writes fiction that is often beyond belief, it is interesting to see the true-life tales that pass the Palahniuk strangeness test.<br /><br />The book starts out with a bang, an opening chapter that provides the reader a voyeuristic field trip into a sex festival.  From there, however, Palahniuk doesn't always maintain the momentum.  Sometimes it appears as if he's just a bored reporter scribbling down facts, not trying to weave a compelling tale.  Several of the stories didn't keep my interest at all, but there is enough good material in here to make the book a worthwhile read.<br /><br />Palahniuk fans should give it a shot, but don't expect to be blown away.	2005-09-30
US	52887769	R3RB5VXEPA0MZB	0316192945	63681096	American Sucker	Books	3	10	11	N	N	Great premise executed by an intellectual snob	This book would have been terrific if it had been written by someone less educated than Denby.  Give me an investing fool with a good editor any day.  Who cares if you can quote Nabokov and Trollope?  Am I supposed to be impressed because you used the word tintinnabulation not once, but twice (!) in this book?  The show-off intellectual tone of this book detracted from the story, which would have been much better had it focused solely on the insanity of the tech craze and the underhanded and/or insanely optimistic dealings which went on.<br /><br />As a narrator, Denby never revealed the magnitude of the money he put into the market, and I think that would have added a lot to the book.  Shouldn't the American Sucker tell all when he's revealing all his mistakes and missteps?  Also, his quarterly reports did little to add to the understanding of his financial portfolio.<br /><br />Denby did do a good job illustrating how the market worked, without resorting to a textbook style.  He explained how much capital is required to push a drug like Erbitux through FDA trial, and how production has to be ramped up even before approval in order to meet demand.  There are some good lessons about the stock market wheelings and dealings of the year 2000, if you can get past Denby's never-ending pretension.	2005-09-30
US	52887769	R16OVM6HUACQBT	0316010790	555987354	Dress Your Family in Corduroy and Denim	Books	5	0	0	N	N	The Sedaris adeventures never fail to amuse!	Sedaris broke into the big time with his bestseller Me Talk Pretty One Day, which does deliver more laugh-out-loud moments in a strictly quantitative sense, but Dress Your Family offers even more insight into the lives of the weird and wacky Sedaris clan.  We're also treated to more time with David's boyfriend Hugh.  No review can accurately portray the witticisms of a master humorist such as Sedaris, but allow me to provide one short quote:  [p. 140] \\"Real love amounts to withholding the truth, even when you're offered the perfect opportunity to hurt someone's feelings.\\"  Read this book now!	2005-09-30
US	52887769	RM4F6XA06DH95	0385720920	729613164	Choke	Books	4	4	9	N	N	Don't let this be your first Palahniuk, and give him another chance	My first Palahniuk was Invsible Monsters, and I highly recommend that along with Diary and Survivor if you want an intro to this literary master. Even as a fan, I had trouble both stomaching the content of Choke and liking the overall structure and message.<br /><br />Overall this book is just gross, and not in the fun irreverant way that Invisible Monsters is. Palahniuk commences once big gross-out fest with degrading acts of sex addicts, detailed descriptions of chewing and choking on food, debilitated nursing home patients, the slow starvation of a character, and the neverending description of narrator's bowel trouble.<br /><br />Is there a plot to this book? Was our narrator truly trying to overcome his addiction or was he just being a punk? Why pay for your mom's care if you secretly want her to die? All along, I was expecting a twist to make up for the rest of the book and explain everything to me, but it never came. I was just left with a great big feeling of \\"Eh,\\" amd \\"Ewwww[...]\\"<br /><br />I urge anyone who dislikes Palahniuk solely on the basis of this book to give one of his other works (but NOT Haunted) a try. This book has a small but dedicated audience, and there is much more to Palahniuk as a master storyteller.	2005-09-30
US	52887769	R1SN9I8TAGE4IE	0385318804	7702736	The Only Girl in the Car: A Memoir	Books	5	7	7	N	N	A girlhood, an assault, the coming-of-age	Dobie's book can be split into two distinct parts, the first about her early girlhood in a crowded Catholic family of six, trying to form an identity for herself within her family.  As an adolescent, Dobie relates more to boys than girls, and she makes some decisions that push her away from the girl cliques, yet she is never fully accepted by the boys.  Dobie learns the hard way, the very hard way, that there are different standards for boys and girls, and this culminates in the life lesson of being \\"the only girl in the car\\" for a sexual assault.<br /><br />The recovery portion of this memoir leaves the reader wondering about Dobie.  She became chaste and stuck it out in high school until she could escape to the world of New York city and leave her past behind.  I finished the book still wondering about her, as I think Dobie wondered about herself in the years to follow.	2005-09-30
US	52887769	R3RBIURXVOK0ZF	0316096199	784206304	Lucky	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Thank you for telling this story, Alice!	When I was a student at Syracuse University, I never heard of Alice Sebold, but every girl (and boy, for that matter) knew never to walk through Thornden Park at night.  20 years after her rape in this dark park, students don't all know her by name, but they know the park is a dangerous and scary place.  Alice was supremely innocent and naive when she was raped (it was her first sexual experience), a fact that the judge in her case could never grasp.<br /><br />Is this a recovery memoir?  Throughout the book, Alice convinces herself and the reader that she is recovering.  She goes through phases of anger, reckless behavior, being withdrawn, and the gradual acceptance of new friends.  At the end of the book, Alice reveals that as well as she thought she was doing, she had a lot more recovery to do the rest of her life.  The reader is forced to reconcile the fact that as painful as everything Alice went through was, she wasn't done dealing with the trauma.<br /><br />The investigation and trial of Alice's rapist is eye-opening and gut-wrenching.  I started reading that part of the book pretty much assuming Alice would win.  She was wronged, he's bad, end of story, right?  There was so much more to it, and my eyes were opened wide.  Alice reprints her testimony verbatim, interspersed with descriptions and explanations, and the reader can feel the tension in the courtroom as they go through the trial.  I was on pins and needles during the trial chapters, and I can only imagine what it was like for those present.<br /><br />Alice has done the world a service by telling this story, by offering the inside look from the victim's point of view.  This is an important read for all mature teenagers and all college-age girls.	2005-09-30
US	52887769	R256WBEREKHEK3	0385338082	693014192	Can You Keep a Secret?	Books	3	1	1	N	N	This is no Shopaholic book	In the Shopaholic series, we had Becky Bloomwood with her passivity and tendency to stick her head in the sand balanced by her witty confessionals about shopping and some funny moments.  In this novel, Kinsella again brings back a vapidly passive main character, and the formula falls flat on its face, without the witticisms to save it.  Emma is beyond belief in her wishy-washiness, letting everyone around her ruin her life while she sits on and says nothing.  As a reader, I was irritated with the main character, and her dilemmas seemed dreadfully drawn out, with the conclusion obvious to the reader from miles away.<br /><br />The Shopaholic books are charming gems of chick lit.  Kinsella does not score so high on this novel.	2005-09-30
US	52887769	R14PUGI5GXG6AF	1400031362	405618230	Morality for Beautiful Girls (No. 1 Ladies Detective Agency)	Books	3	4	6	N	N	Read the books in order, as they start off high and get more mundane	The first book in the No. 1 Ladies Detective Agency series is a masterpiece, a work of folk tradition, a mystery, a story about the strength of strong-willed women, and a heart-warming tale.  As Smith has written more books, they haven't been able to live up to the high bar set by the first.  This is more a sleuth story and less of a piece of literature.  The mysteries themselves are kind of boring and without the spicy resolutions of the first book.  Precious never gets to employ her special brand of folk wisdom to solve a crime.<br /><br />If you are just starting the series, read the books in order, and don't expect everything to live up to the first one.	2005-09-30
US	52887769	R1RWG8KGQW7S8F	0345361792	438809520	A Prayer for Owen Meany	Books	5	4	8	N	N	I'm limited to only five stars??	What can be said about this literary masterpiece?  There's a reason this book has been popular for over a decade and is still a top seller.  Despite its length, the plot will grab the reader and suck them in to the world of the one-of-a-kind Owen Meany and the people who were touched by his short time on earth.<br /><br />The narrator of this book, John Wheelright, tells the story of Owen in flashbacks from the vantage point of his current adult life in Canada.  The present and the past converge at the end of the novel--John talks about the last month's before Owen's death at the same time as he talks about the funeral and Owen's communications from beyond the grave.  The novel climaxes and concludes with Owen's death, which the reader has been told is coming from the very beginning of the novel.  The reader is fully prepared for the death, and even has rough foreshadowing of how it will take place, but it will still sock you in the gut, after having spent so much time watching Owen Meany grow up.  As soon as the book finished, I missed Owen's style of EMPHASIZING IMPORTANT THINGS through the use of capital-letter-speech.<br /><br />For those who want to explore more, there are themes of religion, political undertones, endless recurring symbolism, and much foreshadowing to be studied.  This story can be enjoyed on many different levels, and it is up to the reader how deep they want to look into it.	2005-09-30
US	52887769	R3RP9QIJTLVKKT	0060937548	494857165	Hell's Angel: The Life and Times of Sonny Barger and the Hell's Angels Motorcycle Club	Books	5	2	4	N	N	The man narrates with some major style	This is a great memoir, an important piece of historical record, and a heck of a story.  Do I believe Sonny Barger 100%?  Heck, no.  Do I think that there was some amount of mainstream media misinformation about the Hell's Angels at that the inside scoop is a worthwhile read?  You bet.  Sonny reveals all about the group's origins, traditions, the rules governing being a member, the long-standing conflicts with other motorcycle clubs, and his side behind some of the major Hell's Angels scandals in the last few decades.  The chapter on the racketeering (RICO) indictment of the club is alone worth picking up the book.  It's also fascinating to read Sonny slamming and debunking some of the other supposed Angels insider stories and biographies.  There's no doubt Sonny was a force behind the formation and rise of the motorcycle club.  There's no need to pass judgment on whether Sonny is an American Hero or not--like him or hate him, these stories pack a major punch!  Unforgettable.	2005-09-30
US	52887769	RSU7JFXA09YO5	0385319932	283750903	The Napoleon of Crime: The Life and Times of Adam Worth, Master Thief	Books	3	2	3	N	N	Not for fans of Confessions of A Jewel Thief	I picked this book up because it is heavily promoted by Amazon with Confessions of a Jewel Thief, Bill Mason's larger than life book about being a burglar.  These books have nearly nothing in common other than fitting into the true crime genre.  Macintyre misses the mark by getting bogged down in details and random facts (his research is impressive, yes) and forgetting to spin a compelling tale.  There is too much material here with no cohesive narrative.  Many other readers have hit it in the head by identifying the failings of Mason to focus solely on the topic of Worth and his exploits.	2005-09-29
US	52887769	R3SRHZ2NI3Z2F	1400060931	583114583	Goat: A Memoir	Books	4	3	5	N	N	Portrait of a young man; not a tell-all about hazing	This book has been marketed as the end-all expose on hazing.  While the hazing incidents are despicable and appalling, they aren't what hold this book together.  The book is truly the confessional of Brad, the most passive person ever.  At the beginning of the book, Brad is someone you could call a loser--he gets nervous around girls, he had no friends outside his brother, he had trouble making conversation, he failed out of school due to general laziness, and he got brutally assaulted thanks in part to his own passive stupidity (there was warning sign after warning sign for him to get out before the assault occurred).<br /><br />Brad writes about all of this with amazing candor.  There's no attempt to explain his loserish qualities away as sensitivity or introverted brilliance.  He delivers himself as is, in prose that is best described as present tense fragments of thought without much punctuation.  Does he grow and change throughout the book?  You'll have to decide for yourself.  I worried about Brad during the course of the book, and I kept flipping to his author picture to see if I could decide if he's doing okay these days.	2005-09-29
US	52887769	R3E92QV913J88W	1400034779	405618230	The No. 1 Ladies' Detective Agency (Book 1)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Charming doesn't even begin to describe it! Life-affirming!	Personally, I'm not a mystery fan, and I only read this at the urging of a friend. Imagine my surprise when a book I thought was about English ladies meeting in a parlor over tea to solve crimes turned out to be about a African folk hero and role model to women everywhere (who just happens to solve mysteries, in addition to fixing her friends lives, and running her business, and helping her community). To recount the pure joy of reading this book, I would have to cut and paste every line into my review. So what are you waiting for? This is a true gem not to be missed by readers of all ages! My high school sister, my mother, and my grandmother all adored the tales. I also highly recommend this as a book club selection (the Today show never disappoints with their selections).	2005-09-29
US	52887769	RIK8KOTM06AC6	0060508205	156011115	Traci Lords: Underneath It All	Books	3	8	12	N	N	Traci needs to face reality and hire a better ghost-writer and editor	I'm always trying to read the memoirs of fascinating people who live rock star or movie star lives in the fast lane.  This book was a major disappointment, mostly because Traci makes up complete mush about how she just \\"accidentally\\" fell into porn, almost against her will, when she was really a good person.  Another reviewer said it best:  Get real.  Why write a tell-all if you aren't going to tell all, and instead just make up wishy washy things to cover your actions?<br /><br />The second reason this book fails is because Traci never accepts her notoriety.  In Chapter 39, she laments that despite her several legit roles, everyone is only interested in her porn career.  Of course!  Do you think I would have picked up this book if she were just a woman with a bit role on Roseanne and some B-movie starring roles?  Traci thinks she is a serious actor and is confused why she can't break out of her past.<br /><br />My final thought is that Traci could have used some better editing to tell the story in a snazzier way, rather than starting at her birth and rattling on linearly through her life.  If you want an intelligent, bitingly funny, rock-your-socks-off look at the porn industry and a megastar, run out and get Jenna Jameson's How to Make Love Like A Porn Star, which is a collaboration with the very talented Neil Strauss.	2005-09-29
US	52887769	R27XDYLE7JKWSH	0060987464	386232840	The Long Hard Road Out of Hell	Books	5	112	121	N	N	Brilliant autobiography, to be appreciated even by non-fans	This book is co-authored with Neil Strauss, who is a master of the biography genre.  I picked it up solely on the strength of Strauss's name and not because I am a Manson fan.  This is a masterpiece of an autobiography and I highly recommend it to anyone who likes reading about life in the fastlane and unusual characters.  Hearing Manson's story behind the music made me want to explore his music more, but you definitely don't have to be a fan to appreciate this fine piece of literature.<br /><br />One of the highlights of the book is reading about the Antichrist Superstar tour through Manson's tour diary.  This was the tour that was constantly in the media for supposed crime and disgrace and violence.  During the tour and the media frenzy, I always thought Manson was out to make headlines and shock, but to hear the story in his own words, he didn't have to do a heck of a lot to provoke the American Family Association.  They invented enough on their own to make Manson into a scarier caricature of who he already was.<br /><br />Manson is depraved and twisted, and reading some of his narrative definitely has a gruesome allure.  There's also a softer side here, that of a confused boy who first heard heavy metal music when it was played backwards over his Christian school's PA system to show the students the depraved Satanic messages it carried.  Who wouldn't want to get into heavy metal after that?  Manson was also repeatedly wounded by women and lacked healthy relationships.<br /><br />In this book, Manson disputs some of the rumors surrounding him, via a list of fake information posted by \\"fans\\" on the internet.  I certainly had my eyes opened as some of the Manson myth was dispelled.<br /><br />Highly recommended to any music fan, pop culture fan, or fans of the memoirs of interesting people.	2005-09-16
US	52887769	R2KWRGTLH1DFPV	0804115613	8343212	Fried Green Tomatoes at the Whistlestop Cafe	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Southern Literature at its best	If you're trying to decide between seeing the movie or reading the book first, definitely go for the book. There's something about Flagg's writing that makes it leap off the pages with Southern charm.  Being overly familiar with the excellent movie of the same name, I felt like I was reading the screenplay when I read the book, and I wished I could enjoy this literature on its own, without imagining Kathy Bates and Mary Stuart Masterson in their big screen portrayals.<br /><br />That said, this is an excellent piece of Southern literature, interweaving years and generations of colorful characters. The stories about family, relationships, love, community ties, and more are beautiful and important with their life lessons.	2005-09-16
US	52887769	RVND4529IMHT7	0743236017	422115356	Sex, Drugs, and Cocoa Puffs: A Low Culture Manifesto	Books	5	3	4	N	N	All-star winner essay collection for the ultra-hip, the hipster wannabes, and the cooler than thou	I usually make note of brilliant and memorable lines from the books I read.  In the case of Klostermans manifesto, I'd essentially be photocopying the entire book if I wanted to capture every brilliant insight and hilarious witticism.  Klosterman attacks every topic under the sun, and he states his random philosophies as absolute fact.  He expounds on subjects endlessly, tying together outrageous theories about every aspect of pop culture.<br /><br />Klosterman as a music and culture critic is entirely love-it or hate-it.  Read the first essay before you buy this book, and if it grabs you, you're in for a treat.<br /><br />On p 182 Klosterman discusses hitchhiking.  He states he was told never to hitchhike because drivers who pick up hitchikers are serial killers.  Then he was told that all hitchhikers were serial killers.  \\"According to what I learned in public school, every person on the freeway was trolling for destruction.  I used to imagine nomadic, sadistic drifters thumbing rides with bloodthirsty Volkswagen drivers, both desperately waiting for the first opportunity to kill eachother.  Hitchiking seemed like an ultraviolent race against time.\\"	2005-09-15
US	52887769	R3R9LTMZYOAWMF	0743251636	590913597	Drive Like Hell: A Novel	Books	4	1	2	N	N	The transformation into adulthood	Hudgens has spun a compelling tale about Luke, a 16-year-old Southern boy in the late 1970's who is about to have a series of life-shaping experiences.  The reader gets to see Luke deal with scrapes with the law, his first girlfriend, his first experiences driving cars legally (and illegally), the minor and major-league drug deals, and coming to terms with his alcoholic mother and absent father.  All of this is told with true Southern charm and a fantastic cast of characters--a likeable but gruff sheriff out for political gain, a zany foreign chef who made salad dressing with Paul Newman, a breezy petty thief who happens to be a charming girl, AA teetotalers, and my favorite off all, an unbalanced former professional football player who lives in the moment and has tons of cash to thrown at his mistakes.<br /><br />I'm not a Southerner, but I was charmed by these just-to-the-side-of-the-law rednecks and car lovers.  Let's hope Hudgens treats us to a second story about Luke's career as a bail bondsman.	2005-09-15
US	52887769	RPMKC5IG2NA2C	0595324452	559558050	If I Knew Then . . .	Books	5	19	22	N	N	Now we know the real story, straight from Amy	Amy Fisher is now in her 30's, twice the age she was when she shot Mary Jo Buttafouco.  She's the age Joey was when he was a shady auto-body mechanic preying on the beautiful 16-year-old Fisher.  The contrast between their lives is sharp--Amy served seven years, got married, had a child, and became a successful newspaper columnist in her own right.  She's made peace with Mary Jo.  She works for women's rights and safety in prisons and supports legal aid work.  Joey, on the other hand, sleazily sold his story many times and was arrested repeatedly, most recently for insurance fraud, for which he was given a year sentence in prison.<br /><br />Amy is a mediocre writer in a purely technical sense, but she speaks from the heart and wins over the reader.  When she was a teenager, she was naive about the media (she got a raw deal on her story) and the law, and it took her years to get adequate legal counsel and reverse the damage done by her first attorney.  Her seven years of rape and abuse in prison are not easy to stomach, but she's done important work bringing these issues to light.  All is not bleak, because many of her abusers were later tried and convicted of rape, and Amnesty International now monitors the treatment of women in prison.<br /><br />Fisher has a purpose in telling her story--she wants to wake up suburban parents who trust their children unconditionally and turn a blind eye to their running wild.  She reveals how she slid down the slipperly slope to start hanging out with the wrong crowd and asks the Moms out there if they are listening.  Her story concludes with some clear-headed warning signs for parents.<br /><br />Overall this is a great read that fills in a lot of the backstory that was glossed over in the heyday of the tabloid media.  The media has gotten a lot more responsible than it was in the early 90's, and some tabloid programs even apologized to Fisher for the way they exploited her during the craze.  The one drawback to the book is the cheap way the photos were reprinted.  I wish the publisher had sprung for some nice glossies to accompany this excellent memoir.the cheap way the photos were reprinted.  I wish the publisher had sprung for some nice glossies to accompany this excellent memoir.	2005-09-15
US	52887769	R1KAQYKHZDFY5P	0385492162	582558887	The Girl in the Flammable Skirt: Stories	Books	4	0	2	N	N	Human desire, be it bizarre, fantastic, other-worldly, erotic	These stories can be enjoyed as a purely fantastic escape into an alternate reality, or the reader can look deeper for moral and symbolic themes in Bender's series of short stories.  Bender explores the bizarre, the extraordinary, the erotic nature of human desires.<br /><br />My favorite story in the book was \\"The Healer,\\" which dealt with the intertwined lives of a girl who had a hand made out of fire and her opposite, who had a hand of ice.  Another favorite is \\"The Ring,\\" about a ruby ring that colors everything it touches, and a woman's relationship with this risky item.	2005-09-15
US	52887769	R87E43R4UMX6D	0786888598	106131311	Pledged: The Secret Life of Sororities	Books	3	28	38	N	N	Worthwhile read, but not the end-all, tell-all that Robbins wants it to be	Robbins tried to do too much in one book, and her expose on sororities and Greek life suffered as a result.  She couldn't get official access to a sorority due to a national freeze on media acces after MTV's slightly sleazy Sorority Life reality show, so she befriended four girls at a southern university and followed their adventures for a year.  She alternates between the drama of each girl's life, interpersed with anecdotes from national interviews and research on subjects such as college alcohol abuse, the rush process, the pledge process, differences between historically white and black sororities, and the financial structure of national Greek life.<br /><br />While the lives of the four sorority girls were interesting in small doses, their narratives often seemed to go nowhere, and as a reader, I wasn't compelled to learn more about these girls.  The only way to do a true expose on Greek life is to read a first-person account such as Brad Land's Goat or Koren Zailckas's Smashed.  There's some element that just can't be captured by an outside researcher.  Robbins chose four girls to cover a spectrum of backgrounds, motivations, and experiences, but there was too much information, not all of it compelling, and it was difficult to keep track of everyone in the girls' lives.<br /><br />Robbins did do some excellent research on Greek life and culture.  She examines the pledging process in depth from pledges' personal experiences, anecdotes from around the nation, official university policies, and the hypocrisy of the sorority national policies.  Official anti-hazing policies prohibit sororities from any pledge activities that set pledges apart from full members, which means chapters are equally wrong for such benign practices as herding pledges in groups and making them wear specific colors or items as they are for the truly horrific and abusive hazing practices.  Robbins examines this discrepancy and others in the national policies of sororities.<br /><br />Robbins provides an excellent conclusion, full of suggested overhauls at the sorority, university, and national sorority level to improve the quality of life and experience for everyone.  The book is a worthwhile read if one can wade through the lengthy detail of the four girls' lives, and there are some good lessons to be learned.  If you want a real first-hand expose, go for the books by Brad Land and Koren Zailckas.onclusion, full of suggested overhauls at the sorority, university, and national sorority level to improve the quality of life and experience for everyone.  The book is a worthwhile read if one can wade through the lengthy detail of the four girls' lives, and there are some good lessons to be learned.  If you want a real first-hand expose, go for the books by Brad Land and Koren Zailckas.	2005-09-15
US	52887769	RI5T3AW258CZR	0812967224	822063103	The Day I Turned Uncool: Confessions of a Reluctant Grown-up	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Oh no!  Zevin is describing my life!	I'm a bit younger than Zevin and he's already describing my life, so I got a glimpse at what is coming up.  This book is a quick read--a series of short entries on topics from lawn care to home improvement to the breaking of those decades-old appliances from your college days to teaching students at a local college.  Zevin is a master humorist who delivers his message quickly and with a punch.<br /><br />The absolute highlight of the collection is Zevin's essay which alternates passages from his journal during his junior year abroad with his experiences fifteen years later visiting his younger brother in Spain.  Junior year was THE MOST INTENSE experience, closing down bars, being \\"stoked,\\" sleeping in train stations, and finding truth and beauty in music and literature.  That travel journal is juxtaposed brilliantly against Zevin's demand for creature comfort and different pace at age 35.  \\"Confession:  The world is no longer my oyster.\\"<br /><br />Zevin could be called a male Sandra Tsing Loh, but he gets to his point a lot faster and isn't whiny.  This is a fun book, a quick, digestible read, and a great gift item for anyone in their late twenties or mid-thirties.	2005-09-15
US	52887769	R3S2J3J8ET1YLR	1566251974	44028840	Straight Whisky	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Must-read for any music fan; a tour through the decades	Outstanding!  Prepare to be consumed by the tale of a Hollywood landmark, the Whisky A Go-Go, from its go-go and movie star days to the hippie era to rock to punk to glam metal and into the current day.  The authors' style is accessible and easy-to-follow--each chapter opens with an anecdote about people in the club and closes with a comprehensive historical analysis and commentary.  The two components of each chapter were perfectly delineated and well balanced.<br /><br />Prepare for a lot of tell-all uncensored anecdotes about everyone from the the Byrds to The Doors to Guns N Roses to Led Zeppelin to The Germs to Motley Crue.  There's something for everyone in the history of The Whisky.<br /><br />This book takes you inside a trio of clubs owned by the same family:  the legendary Wisky, the smaller venue for unsigned bands, the Roxy, and the legendary Rainbow, where rock stars and Hollywood scenesters dined and drank in the heyday of the Sunset Strip and continue to do so today.  Anyone visiting LA should stop by the Rainbow for a meal and to see a part of living history.	2005-09-08
US	52887769	RVSWR6AZD4V0L	0312315732	860060808	Little Children: A Novel	Books	5	4	5	N	N	The facade of perfect suburban life	In a novel that is definitely not for or about children, Perrotta reveals the dark and private sides of suburban yuppie parents raising small children.  This novel is addictive and easy to devour.  Everyone in here is tied together by the little children--we have a stay-at-home-dad, a power woman who wishes she could stay home with her children, a stay-at-home-mom, and a child molester who is being hunted down by a local vigilante dad.  Recounting the plot isn't necessary (you'll get some extramarital affairs, online porn addictions, frustrations with careers, vigilante justice, male bonding, female gossip circles, and more), but suffice it to say that once you get involved with these characters, you'll want to see more.  Perrotta does an excellent job with the resolution of the novel, too, in one final scene that brings everything to a head and sets the characters on their new, changed courses.<br /><br />Highly recommended, along with Adam Langer's Crossing California.	2005-09-08
US	52887769	R3QG48XQ54XME0	0312423772	30347471	Shadow Baby (Today Show Book Club #14)	Books	5	9	10	N	N	The book that got my bookclub back together	For anyone who runs a book club, I highly recommend this short and sweet book.  It's easy for all club members to finish in a month, and it will inspire a wealth of emotions and reactions in the reader.<br /><br />Clara is a bit precocious for an 11-year old, but her world view is very realistic.  We see her mother Tamar only through Clara's eyes, and Clara has trouble relating to her mother.  Clara relates beautifully to an old man who lives near her, and their friendship illustrates the wealth of both life lessons and practical knowledge that can be gleaned from our elders.<br /><br />Enjoy this book as Clara makes friends, learns about life, unravels the mysteries of her past, and comes to understand her mother.	2005-09-06
US	52887769	RAN6ISHTKJ0ZE	0312422202	864535953	Dress Codes: Of Three Girlhoods---My Mother's, My Father's, and Mine	Books	5	3	3	N	N	I came expecting a sordid thrill and left with a touching and well-done family portrait	The true story of a woman who grew up with a cross-dressing dad, who later became a transgendered woman, is bound to be an attention getter.  I picked this up expecting to get some nice shocking details about alternative lifestyles, but instead I was touched with a very complete family portrait.  Howey dove deep into her mother's and her father's childhoods, their formative sexual relationships, and how they were shaped into who they were as adults.  She paints a complete picture of three different transformations into womanhood--those of her mother, herself, and her father.<br /><br />This isn't a train wreck of a journey--the reader will come away surprised at how natural all this growth and transformation seems.  Howey captures the larger attitudes and issues around transsexualism, as well as how it affected her small family.  Her insight and wisdom make this book an excellent resource, and this book should be remembered as a portrait of attitudes about sexuality over the last 25 years.	2005-09-06
US	52887769	R2BJ5PSGRSUSW6	0894864025	149284688	Codependent No More: How to Stop Controlling Others and Start Caring for Yourself	Books	5	18	19	N	N	Characteristics, examples, and advice that is eye-opening and easy to follow	Melody Beattie, a former addict, used to hate codependents (which she defines as \\"people who have let another person's behavior afect him or her, and who is obsessed with controlling that person's behavior\\").  Codepdendents are most frequently the family members of alcoholics or drug users, but the definition is broad.  Beattie thought codependents were hostile and detrimental to the recovery process.  When she went through codependency herself, her eyes were opened to the world that these people live in, and to the potential for recovery if one can identify the problem and take positive steps to improve their life.<br /><br />This book is a quick and easy read, and it will hit home if you have an alcoholic or a codependent (or both) in your life.  Beattie provides example scenarios of codependecy, expounds upon the traits and self-defeating behaviors of codepdency, and provides self-help steps to move beyond codepdency.  Although this isn't marketed as a workbook, Beattie provides checklists and open-ended questions at the end of each chapter, and a blank journal to record your reponses would be an excellent companion to the book.<br /><br />Highly recommended to anyone who has an alcoholic or drug-addicted family member.  This can be an eye-opener and a life-changer.	2005-09-05
US	52887769	RPN4ERO1NGAB1	1567312187	993188463	Codependent No More & Beyond Codependency	Books	5	65	68	N	N	Excellent pairing up of two winning volume from Beattie	Melody Beattie, a former addict, used to hate codependents (which she defines as \\"people who have let another person's behavior afect him or her, and who is obsessed with controlling that person's behavior\\").  Codepdendents are most frequently the family members of alcoholics or drug users, but the definition is broad.  Beattie thought codependents were hostile and detrimental to the recovery process.  When she went through codependency herself, her eyes were opened to the world that these people live in, and to the potential for recovery if one can identify the problem and take positive steps to improve their life.<br /><br />Codependent No More is a quick and easy read, and it will hit home if you have an alcoholic or a codependent (or both) in your life.  Beattie provides example scenarios of codependecy, expounds upon the traits and self-defeating behaviors of codepdency, and provides self-help steps to move beyond codepdency.  Although this isn't marketed as a workbook, Beattie provides checklists and open-ended questions at the end of each chapter, and a blank journal to record your reponses would be an excellent companion to the book.<br /><br />Once you've finished Codependent No More, Beattie's next book (included in this two-for-one) Beyond Codepdency is a guide to the on-going recovery process.  It also includes activities/questions to probe the reader's own experience and help him or her get a handle on their situation.<br /><br />These two books are highly recommended and it is terrific that they are available in one volume.	2005-09-05
US	52887769	R36UORBW2ZY5C8	0767903277	863762746	The Informant: A True Story	Books	5	4	6	N	N	Absolutely fascinating tale that unravels quickly despite its length	Summing up the contents of this book is impossible.  Eichenwald manages to take the most boring of all crime (white collar unfair business practices including price fixing) in the large, unsexy biochemical industry and make it read like a Grisham thriller, only with more twists and turns.  The criminal company, Archer Daniels Midland (ADM) is a behemoth that supplies products for many aspects of everyday consumer life, but most people have never heard of them.  Eichenwald introduces us to a wide cast of characters--the FBI, the ADM corporate structure, ADM competitors, the families, the political players--and he truly humanizes all of them.  He presents all aspects of the story, from home life to corporate ladder climbing to FBI internal ladder climbing to the political climate.<br /><br />The most fascinating character is The Informant, an ADM executive who is secretly taping for the FBI in exchange for immunity.  But does he have his own agenda?  The story is told from the perspective of the investigating FBI agents, and as the story unravels, it gets trickier and trickier to deal with their informant...<br /><br />Despite its length, this book is a quick read and a complete page turner.  It comes highly recommended to any fan of thrillers and for fans of good non-fiction.	2005-09-05
US	52887769	RWVFGF8K9RF2A	0312181388	877583353	My Worst Date: A Novel	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Ahead of its time; worth it to pick this up a decade later	This book came out in 1996, way ahead of its time.  Mainstream literature readers weren't ready for an in-depth look at the gay scene in Miami Beach, where everyone is self-centered, body-obsessed, monogamy is unheard of, and bisexual men are creeps to the men and women around them.  This was when having one token gay character on a TV show was titillating.  Now we see these types of men all over the place in shows like Queer As Folk and mainstream America is begininning to get a glimpse of gay culture.<br /><br />This book stands the test of time.  It is still relevant a decade later and doesn't seem dated at all.  The main plot centers on a 17-year old son and his mother dating the same man, the dashing Glenn Eliott Paul.  Mom is unaware that her son Hugo is secretly getting it on with her boyfriend.  Some reviewers claim this is unrealistic.  Wake up!  Men on the \\"down low\\" are a cultural phenomenon and this is happening in every town in America (okay, maybe not in the same family, but there are many men who sleep with men but live life as heterosexuals).<br /><br />This is a dramatic tale, full of twists and turns and deceptions and family secrets.  No, you don't have to \\"like\\" all the characters.  But, boy, does this make for some thrilling reading!  There is plenty of homosexual erotica in this book, which I found to be well-done.<br /><br />Give this book a chance and view it with an open mind.  It is a complete page turner, and you get to see the action from the points of view of two very well developed characters, Hugo and his former-model Mom Iris.	2005-09-03
US	52887769	R2X9XS6ZFNJNWP	0743418174	780559593	Good in Bed	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Excellent debut novel from this rising star	There's a glut of \\"single-approaching-30 desperately-seeking-a-man\\" chick lit novels, but this one manages to rise above the genre as a shining star women of any body size can relate to.  The first half is a great tale, and I wasn't thrilled with slightly unrealistic glam turn the novel took towards the end, but overall this is more than just a beach read, and it comes highly recommended.	2005-09-02
US	52887769	R2EQPBN5HQUL6A	1400060117	548874180	A Round-Heeled Woman: My Late-Life Adventures in Sex and Romance	Books	3	9	12	N	N	Great premise, falls a little short on the execution	This book is advertised in a scintillating way: the late-life adventures in sex and romance of an English teacher who placed an ad in the NY Review of Books seeking to \\"have a lot of sex with a man I like\\" before she turns 67.  The result had an identity disorder:  Is this book a whirlwind of sexual escapades (as advertised)?  Is it Juska's depressing memoirs, describing her failed marriage and her relationship with her son?  It is a commentary on modern relationships?  Each ensuing chapter pulls the reader in a different direction, detracting from the book as a whole.<br /><br />The sexual meetings were, frankly, boring.  Give me Noelle Howey or Augusten Burroughs for sexual deviation any day.  Also, Juska talked a lot, but never really let the reader inside her head.  I never figured out why she was with Robert if he treated her so poorly, and she didn't explain her rationale.	2005-09-02
US	52887769	R2WYH504E2TWRC	0060959355	136587156	More Than You Know: A Novel	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Modern gothic that has appeal to all ages	Gutcheon weaves a tale comprised of stories from two different centuries, which switch back and forth seamlessly.  The pressures of the town and family on each of the characters in the two love stories were unique and yet raised similar themes.  The ghost in the story haunts both the characters and the reader, compelling me to stay up at night trying to finish this story for some resolution.<br /><br />This is an excellent read for both teenagers experiencing a first romance and for adults, especially those who enjoy historical fiction.	2005-09-02
US	52887769	RSP760BVHYUJZ	0060575271	314821682	A Vineyard Killing (A Martha's Vineyard Mystery)	Books	3	3	3	N	N	Disappointed in this Good Morning America Book Club selection	I selected this book for my discussion group based on the fact that it was a Good Morning America Book Club selection.  I'm not a mystery reader, and I have never hear of Philip R. Craig.  Reading through some of the reviews, it seems this isn't one of his best, so I'm disappointed that it was my introduction to the author.  I'm also disappointed in GMA for selecting such a mediocre story as a book club selection.  Unfortunately, my discussion group disintegrated into general bashing of this novel and of the selection of it for the group to read.  I put this out there as a warning to other people who might rely on the GMA recommendation and come looking for some moving literature, instead of bottom barrel genre fiction that gives mysteries a bad name.<br /><br />The narrator is well-known to series fans, but as an outsider, I found him full of himself, with an inflated ego in intellectual and physical matters.  He was unlikeable and I was thoroughly annoyed at having to listen to his point of view by the end of the book.  There was a huge sideline red herring storyline in this book, and it went absolutely nowhere and just made a mess out of the plot.  Perhaps it related to the larger series of books, but in this mystery, it was senseless.	2005-09-02
US	52887769	R3COXFHM4X4WAF	0375508392	838335142	Confessions of a Master Jewel Thief	Books	5	4	7	N	N	Riveting true-crime and tell-all	Mason has done it all, stolen from the most famous, engaged in the shadiest deals, sunks to the lowest lows in his personal life due to his life of crime, and, boy, does it make for great reading.  This is one of my all-time favorite memoirs for style, flair, and out-and-out storytelling ability.  It's strange to meet such a charming narrator that as a reader, you can forgive him for his life of crime and root for him when he was being pursued by the police.<br /><br />Many of Mason's feats were super-human, breaking burglar-proof systems and leaving in his wake unsolved crimes galore.  He tells all in this memoir, revealing facts that the police have scratched their heads over for decades.  It's fun to be along for the ride!	2005-09-02
US	52887769	RCHQFMNPZSB4	1400042070	669988222	The Amateur Marriage: A Novel	Books	5	5	5	N	N	A shining examination of a marriage	Reading the book description tells you nothing about this book.  There is no way to sum up the intricate tapestry Tyler has woven in a few paragraphs.  This is an examination of all the personal experience, personality traits, prejudices, unspoken suffering, and joys that go into a marriage of 50 years.  There's nothing extraordinary about Tyler's main characters, Michael and Pauline, and their beauty lies in how easily the reader can relate to their stuggles, and how these experiences relate to our own and those of our friends and family.<br /><br />This was my first introduction to Tyler and I'm left wanting to devour more of her works!	2005-09-02
US	52887769	R1QXVX62BRLGYH	0060517506	882357870	Nothing to Lose	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Another winner from Alex Flinn	This story is structured well, told in alternating passages from the present time and from the events of a year ago in narrator Michael's life.  The two time periods converge beautifully at the end, as we learn the whole story about the night that Michael's abuse stepfather was murdered in his house.  The end is slightly predictable, but the journey is still enjoyable, as Michael deals with anger, guilt, choices between right and wrong, and a basic struggle to survive.<br /><br />This book has a good male protagonist, and it should appeal to teen readers of both genders.  Michael is a tough guy, a football player, who realizes he has no true friends to confide in about the hell that his homelife is.  He makes an unlikely friend throughout the course of the book, and there's a good lesson about finding your true friends in here.<br /><br />Breathing Underwater is an earlier, and even better, YA novel from Flinn that comes highly recommended.	2005-09-01
US	52887769	R8UTTQ6NVATYH	0812969006	703313939	I Love Everybody (and Other Atrocious Lies): True Tales of a Loudmouth Girl	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Must-read companion to Idiot Girls'	Notaro broke into the essay scene with the amazing Idiot Girls' Action-Adventure Club. That's a must-read for anyone between the ages of 21 and 40 and should be everyone's intro to Notaro. Notaro's later books, such as this one, focus a bit more on married life, and the appeal according shrinks to the higher side of that age range.<br /><br />This is a great companion to Idiot Girls' because Notaro writes about the days when she wrote that book, got turned down by hundreds of publishers, had a rocky time with her newspaper job, self-published, and then finally got a break. As a fan of her first work, hearing the backstory behind bringing to to market was really amazing.<br /><br />The book is about much than just publishing her first book, of course, and all of Notaro's misadventures entertain the reader, as expected.	2005-09-01
US	52887769	R24SBW2RDL8OQM	0452285453	7966085	The Lady and the Unicorn: A Novel	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Weaving a literary tapestry	This story is more than just a fanciful historical romance, because Chevalier achieves greatness by tying her tale into the historical record through art.  This is a rich literary tapestry that explains the story behind a masterpiece of art, the Lady and the Unicorn tapestries.  There are both likeable and unlikeable characters within the novel, but they all come together in the historical record of the artwork.  At the end of the novel, Chevalier explains which parts of the book are historically accurate and which are her embellishments for narrative purposes.<br /><br />Overall, this is no comparison to Girl With a Pearl Earring, which is an absolute literary masterpiece, but it is still a great read.  First-time Chevalier readers should try Girl with a Pearl Earring first.	2005-09-01
US	52887769	R2YJ80MMQL69MS	0152053409	645778008	M.T. Anderson's Thrilling Tales - Whales On Stilts	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Not to be missed for children and adults alike!	This fantastic tale takes place in an alternate reality where corporate men don't question bosses who have flippers under their business suit and dump sea water over their head to get refreshed, where kids gather at a restaurant that floats in the area, where a photocopy machine powered by a mule doesn't raise eyebrows in the office.  It's a wacky and fun ride, and the reader will find themselves sucked in by the \\"Monstrous Thrills!  Gruesome Chills!  Sidesplitting Laughs!\\"<br /><br />The unconventional format of this short novel makes it a true winner.  It is complete with black and white illustrations of the unbelievable characters and events.  The narrator speaks directly to the reader in asides and laugh-out-loud stream-of-consciousness footnotes.  Plus, when the story ends, the author throughfull provides an offbeat reader's guide and list of ridiculous essay questions, along with an author interview.  Parents and children will enjoy reading this book together.	2005-09-01
US	52887769	R5KMXUPVZG9IH	0812969014	243319222	We Thought You Would Be Prettier: True Tales of the Dorkiest Girl Alive	Books	5	13	14	N	N	Another winner, watch Laurie try to mature	For fans of The Idiot Girls' Action Adventure Club, this book opens with Notaro recounting the days of her cross-country tour to support her breakout hit of a first novel.  While Idiot Girls' centered on a single, drinking, avoiding-growing-up life, in this look Notaro has definitely aged, as she writes about marriage, being an aunt, buying clothes for the middle-aged body, using eBay, and working out at the YMCA.<br /><br />There are several very moving \\"This Is Your Life\\" segments that reveal Notaro's roots with humor and wit.  In \\"Moving Day,\\" Notaro relives all her memories of her grandparents' house and what it was like to interact with them.  In \\"Last Night at Long Wong's,\\" she attends the closing party for the bar in which many of her Idiot Girls' adventures took place.  She had't been there in years, and she was too tired/responsible to go to the all-night after-party, something she would have been the life of in her Idiot Girls' days.<br /><br />For readers who have grown with Notaro, from being a reckless Idiot Girl to becoming the Dorkiest Girl Alice, this will be a surefire hit.	2005-09-01
US	52887769	R1VVOGE8QOUGUS	1578566991	893480191	Flying by the Seat of My Pants: Flight Attendant Adventures on a Wing and a Prayer	Books	4	34	35	N	N	Terrific diversion in a digestible format	This was a fun read, a compilation of short, unconnected essays on twenty years of working as a flight attendant.  The stories are amusing, but there is something missing to make this book complete as a whole.  Pick it up expecting a few minutes of pleasurable reading and laugh-out-loud antics and you won't be disappointed.<br /><br />One hilarious story was about carrying passengers bags:  [p 48]  Every day passengers bring bags on board that they are unable to lift into the overhead bins.  So they turn to me, and say \\"Will you life this for me?  I don't want to hurt my back.\\"  I am tempted to say, \\"Oh, I _do_ want to hurt my back.  Here, let me.\\"<br /><br />The bag essay continues as Marsha tells the story of the time she took a shoulder bag off an old lady's wheelchair, and it weighed close to 100 pounds.  She inquired what was in the bagm and the lady revealed that it was filled with rocks from her daughter's house (near a quarry) that she was carrying home for her garden.<br /><br />This is a fun, short read, and it reminded me how much flight attendants have to deal with on a daily basis.  I'll certainly think twice about taking my irration at an airline out on a flight attendant working in the trenches.	2005-09-01
US	52887769	R2IG1LULYTQ9FW	0767915305	315577385	The Sex Lives of Cannibals: Adrift in the Equatorial Pacific	Books	5	33	40	N	N	One of the best in recent years!  Give this book a chance!	Troost and his wife truly do go to the end of the world, to a tiny country in the equatorial Pacific, and live in an alternate reality.  Troot's misadventures with the town's hygiene and sanitation, the toxic fish, a complete lack of vegetation, limited dry goods, cannibalistic dogs, a rundown airplane, high seas on a plywood boat, and the like are relayed to the reader with humor and wit.  Beer is popular because it \\"tends to be parasite-free and calorie-laden, two very useful attributes on Tarawa.\\"  At first, Troost is an outsider, shocked by the island going-ons, but over the course of his two years there, he truly adopts the island lifestyle, so much that America is a complete culture shock for husband and wife when the part ways with Kiribati.<br /><br />Troost makes some insightful comments on infrastructure--he took for granted in his previous life that water and electricity came to your house by magic.  On Kiribati, he has hilariously eye-opening experiences ensuring a supply of both.<br /><br />Throughout the book Troost recounts the history of Kiribati, its culture, and its relationship to the outside world.  He actually does a real service to the island by recording the oral tradition and myth, and placing it in context with the slim amount of published literature on Kiribati.  Over the course of his stay, he grows to be a real defender of the nation.  When  Kiribati sincerely accepts the offer of a British drunkard to become their Poet Laureate, the global media has quite a laugh at the nation's quaint nature.  Troost is certain to set the truth straight about the lout who only lasted a few months in Kiribati.	2005-09-01
US	52887769	R1T7XNFRNCWB0G	0374278644	711497215	Trance: A Novel	Books	3	20	26	N	N	Does not translate well as a stand-alone book	I was excited to pick up a fictionalized account of Patty Hearst and her time with the SLA.  I didn't live through that time period, and I have only a fringe knowledge of the events, but what a gripping premise, right?<br /><br />Wrong.  I think this book is only a winner for SLA/Hearst-ophiles who can put the story in a larger context.  It does not stand on its own at all.  It is told from way too many points of view, and it takes tremendous concentration in the beginning of the book to remember all these characters and figure out why each one of them is narrating.  I got bogged down in the switching-around and wanted the action to get started.<br /><br />Other reviewers have talked about the beautifully developed characters and scenes.  I had the opposite reaction to the long inner dialogues and descriptive passages--I wanted Sorrentino to get along with the action already.	2005-09-01
US	52887769	R1FQQI4GSM47N9	0811834344	205845992	The Biggest Game in Town	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Mesmerizing time capsule of Vegas two decades ago	This book is a time capsule of a very different Las Vegas.  The Vegas of the late 70's and early 80's was centered around the downtown area, with none of the all-encompassing resorts on the Strip.  This is the heyday of Binion's Horseshoe, when Benny Binion was holding court at the most over-the-top gambling paradise.  Unlike other casinos, the Horseshoe had to limits on the bets it would accepts and played host to the most outrageous gamblers and bets of the time.<br /><br />All the greats of poker legend appear here--Johnny Moss and Nick the Greek Dandalos in their 1949 many-weeks-long marathon multi-million dollar game, Doyle Brunson, wacky cowboy gambler Amarillo Slim Preston, and formidable strategist Jack Strauss, among others.<br /><br />This is a must-read for any poker player.  For a modern look inside the World Series of Poker, try James McManus's Positively Fifth Street.	2005-09-01
US	52887769	R1NE5BMV2V5UWY	0743241924	646193804	The Men Who Stare at Goats	Books	3	12	15	N	N	Entertaining look at military conspiracy theories through the decades	This is a wacky trip through the field notes of author Jon Ronson as he interviewed alleged participants and theorists in some of the wackier military experiments.  The narrative didn't have much structure or overall message; it was more a collection of Ronson's experiences talking to a wide range of people.  The \\"men who stare at goats\\" are a small part of the story, which jumps from military intelligence to the battle techniques of the First Earth Brigade to the use of music to influence/torture Afghani and Iraqis to the extremists in the suicidal Heaven's Gate cult.  All of thse are interesting enough subjects on their own, but neither Ronson nor the reader knows the overall connection between them.<br /><br />The main substance of this book is interviews, many of which are conducted with subjects even Ronson questions the credibility of.  In one case, Ronson hears the legend of a military psychic who has a vision of a missing key to the back door of his lab and is able to have a locksmith create the key from a drawing of his vision.  When Ronson tracks down the actual man with the vision, he admits that he actually just picked the lock, but he invented the story to inflate the spirits of the flagging psychic group.  How can we believe any of the other stories?  It is all just heresay, and no one offers a smoking gun or concrete evidence about anything.<br /><br />If you have an open mind and want to hear some fantastic tales, read this book.  If you want solid evidence of conspiracies within the government, go to something better researched and documented.	2005-09-01
US	52887769	R342E2YS64NLFW	0441008534	486021067	Dead Until Dark  (Sookie Stackhouse/True Blood, Book 1)	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Must-read for lovers of Southern fiction	Any Southern fiction fan would enjoy this book, and it's not strictly for fantasy readers. The vampire setting is completely fun, and the narrator's special disability (mind reading) is portrayed well.  Sookie is a likeable hardworking Southern gal who has to deal with some issues most people never face. This is a mystery and a love story wrapped up in a wacky little package, and it makes for terrific reading.	2005-08-29
US	52887769	RUXZ45KCL3UGT	1573229326	319964836	How to Be Good	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Exactly how much do I have to do to be Good?	When are your good deeds enough?  When do you become truly Good?  What if you go from being insufferably mean to an even worse opposite--insufferably nice to everyone, to the detriment of your own family?  Giving away your children's computer to the needy, giving away the family dinner, inviting homeless strangers to live in your house...when is enough enough?  Sarcastic and self-centered David undergoes just this transformation in Hornby's novel, and it's a train wreck of action for his family.<br /><br />This book has gotten some negative reviews, but it caught me in the right way and I found it hilarious.  I found the musings on being Good to be very comical and witty.  Check it out from the library and give it a chance to see how it strikes you.	2005-08-29
US	52887769	R3LS1MGXIQRI13	0440225701	454775948	The Street Lawyer	Books	2	16	24	N	N	Definitely had higher expectations for a Grisham novel	This is my least favorite Grisham to date. It is hard to believe that we're reading the same man who wrote those blockbuster legal thrillers. This work is just thrown together and the plot is extremely lame. It hinges on a major life change for main character Michael which is presented on shaky footing and never fully backed up to the reader. We just have to accept that he does a 180-degree change in character, since that is the basis for the entire novel.<br /><br />Grisham presents a fantasy world in which the citizens of DC rally around a homeless woman and our street lawyer changes the world for the better. What?! Since when does the plight of any homeless person ever make a blip on the news media's radar? The end of this book is pure \\"happily ever after\\" drivel that has no basis in reality. I didn't know Grisham was trying out the fantasy genre these days.	2005-08-29
US	52887769	R3MS8T2SV2Y3ZL	0786868716	891971809	The Five People You Meet In Heaven	Books	5	2	3	N	N	A beautiful fable	This is a tale that is both general enough to be applied to any reader's life and so rich with detail that I came away knowing Eddie intimately.  I'm amazed that I learned so much, and got so many lessons about why things happen for a reason, in so few pages.  I walked away from this book knowing that are lives are intertwined with other people, like the Blue Man and Ruby, who are far outside our immediate circles.  This book made me appreciate everything I have in my life.<br /><br />There are some unforgettable quotes in here:<br /><br />[p 78]:  \\"'Strangers,' the Blue Man said, 'are just family you have yet to come to know.'\\"<br /><br />[p 167]:  \\"All parents damage their children.  It cannot be helped.  Youth, like pristine glass, absorbs the prints of its handlers.  Some parents smudge, other crack, a few shatter childhoods completely into jagged little pieces, beyond repair.	2005-08-29
US	52887769	R3M72JZU3Q7CEO	0451408888	475370067	The Trials of Tiffany Trott	Books	2	4	5	N	N	Absolutely dreadful; gives chick lit a bad name	I made the mistake of picking this up because it was recommended to those who love the Shopaholic series. Let me be clear, Tiffany Trott is in no way on par with the loveable and hilarious Shopaholic. All British gals are not created equal. Tiffany's narrative was extremely tedious and in no way entertaining. She's whiny and obsessed with finding a long-term boyfriend. The flirting in the book was lame, overdone, and none of the characters managed to endear themselves to me. I'm sorry I wasted my time on this book.	2005-08-29
US	52887769	R3C7ZJ8UKFB0KF	0374529035	51727880	Naked in Baghdad: The Iraq War as Seen by NPR's Correspondent Anne Garrels	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Amazing chance to learn the story behind that voice on the radio	As a listener to NPR, I feel so much closer to Garrels after learning the backstory behind her reports from the trenches of Iraq.  She has extreme skill and intuition at conducting herself in a foreign country, at making people willing to talk, at befriending the right people.<br /><br />I learned a lot about how much the Iraqi government practiced supression in the old regime.  People were terrified for their lives if they talked to foreign reporters, and Garrels had to pay many bribes to get press credentials.  When leaving Iraq, corrupt officials invent tests and fees for Garrels and her assistant to pay.  Her stories humanized the Iraqi conflict for me--I met both crooks and good guys through Garrels.<br /><br />Garrels has a great storytelling style.  She'll tell an anecdote and then end with a biting one line zinger.  She's as taltened on paper as she is on the air, and I'll be watching for more from this amazing woman.	2005-08-29
US	52887769	R64SSJVWRG15K	0425178102	857420607	Big Trouble	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Is there anything this man can't do?	The most obvious comparison to Barry's first full-length comic crime novel is to the work of Haissen and Elmore Leonard.  Barry has his own brand of humor, though, and he covers all the bases, from sophisticated situational irony to down and out slapstick. He even captures the thoughts of the family dog, who gets to play a significant role in the mystery.<br /><br />His comment on airport security is brilliant: [p 196] \\"It was the standard airport-security operation, which meant it appeared to have been designed to hassle law abiding passengers just enough to reassure them, while at the same time providing virtuall no protection against criminals with an IQ higher than celery.\\"<br /><br />I found Barry's second novel, Tricky Business, even better than the first, and that comes highly recommended. Another lesser known comic/crime/Florida writer is Tim Dorsey, and his works are recommended to Barry fans.	2005-08-29
US	52887769	R2RN9JAE17SO2J	0452284503	978544299	Oh, the Things I Know!: A Guide to Success, or, Failing That, Happiness	Books	3	4	6	N	N	Oh, how annoying this gimmick gets!	This is supposed to be a sharp and witty satire of inspirational books. Franken followed the self-help format well, but I never really laughed at his self-deprecating witticisms. His other books are much better. Throughout this, I couldn't help but think that Dave Barry could have done this topic much better.<br /><br />Franken fans may well enjoy this, but I don't think it has wide appeal.<br /><br />One funny passage was on [p. 73]: \\"My son...plays...Grand Theft Auto III, in which the object is to pick up a prostitute in a stolen car and murder her. It's not my kind of thing. But when I was young, I listened to the Beatles, which my parents viewed with equal horror.  Today, the Beatles are cultural icons, revered around the world. By the time my son is my age, the same will probably be said of the wizards behind Grand Theft Auto III.\\"	2005-08-29
US	52887769	R3QCZH3NNFBM4B	080213825X	754092812	Four Blondes	Books	5	3	6	N	N	Loved it, and I consider myself a literary snob	Most of my girlfriends shuddered when they saw this book on my coffee table, saying that they found it disgusting and upsetting. Of course, that only made me want to read it more, and I ended up being pleasantly surpirsed. I picked this up because I had read Bushnell's Trading Up, a follow-on book that follows the life of Janey, a character from 4 Blondes.<br /><br />I admire the style of this book--each of the four sections follows a different society girl, and the storytelling style and overall tone of each section is very different, to match the main character. Bushnell is a talented storyteller, even if you have moral qualms about her characters.<br /><br />The first blonde, Janey, was my favorite, probably because I had read about her in Trading Up. This story really helped me get the background of the Trading Up characters and understand why Janey was the way she was, and why she was in love with Comstock Dibble.<br /><br />The second story focused on Winnie and James Dicks. It was a beautiful satire of a well-educated career-climbing NY couple. It was less of a story than a snapshot \\"day in the life of...,\\" but it was still a good read.<br /><br />The third first-person vignette was the most interesting. Bushnell truly captured the scattered thoughts of a mentally ill woman in diary format. I felt like I traveled on her journey of partial recovery, then sunk back down into the depths of drugs. Bushnell is a master for making me feel the point of view of a shallow, social-climbing, drug-addicted woman.<br /><br />The final story was the least well developed. The writer's commentary was boring, and she thought she was much more talented and insightful than she really was. The English men in this story were one-dimensional, too. Bushell should stick to NY social climber who don't have as many pretentions.	2005-08-29
US	52887769	R1B5E7EMGFY4LI	0878334602	973093676	Loaded Dice - The True Story of a Casino Cheat	Books	4	1	1	N	N	A very different Vegas from the modern times	Other reviewers have questioned the credibility of Soares as an author.  I found him cocky and sure of himself, but wouldn't you have to be, to scam mobsters running casinos out of thousands of dollars?  Soares justifies his cheating because these were the days when the casino was just as happy to cheat the customer if need be, before heavy gaming regulations.  In fact, he started his life in the casinos as a crooked dealer, employed by the casino to bring down a player's winning streak if necessary.<br /><br />The tricks described herein relate to old reel-style machines and the days when you only had to fool the casino floorpeople, not the omnipresent \\"eye in the sky\\" video camera.  Some of what Soares describes in his craps games could still be employed today, but it would be awfully risky.<br /><br />This is a fun read, and it might be embellished, but I enjoyed the glimpse inside a lifetime's worth of scams nonetheless.	2005-08-29
US	52887769	R3T6T2EMYGFP6X	1573226955	870968002	If You Lived Here, You'd Be Home By Now	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Funny and insightful look at the "scene" post-college	Were you hip in college?  Did you throw wine tastings with eclectic groups of people and broaden your mind while discussing politics?  What happened since then, since everyone else started living in the middle of the LA scene, having private chefs, serving gourmet food, and owning exclusive lofts in excellent neighborhoods?  When did everyone learn to schmooze and network and climb the LA writing and acting ladder, while you are still stuck living in a cheap rental at an undesirble address in the Valley?<br /><br />If this sounds like your life, if you ever thought Trader Joe's was your personal secret indie find-of-a-lifetime, only to be dismayed that everyone but you has known about it for years, then this book is for you.  Bronwyn is a funny woman trying to hold her own post-graduate school in LA with her writer husband.  She imagines that on the other side of the country,  everyone not in LA is in clapboard Connecticut farmhouses, teaching American Studies to students who come over and prepare communal corn and lentil soup.  She's in neither scene.<br /><br />This is a time capsule of Los Angeles during the early 90's, with the political events that shaped the city, and is a must-read for Los Angelenos who lived through that time.	2005-08-29
US	52887769	R1GMAGMUOT07MJ	0525468943	103679475	Aimee	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Parents might not get this one, but teenagers need to read this book!	This is a poignant book that hits home on the theme of friendship and knowing what is right and wrong when you aren't sure which adults you can trust.  Once Zoe is accused of assisting in her friend's suicide, she is isolated from her friends.  Anyone who has experienced high school knows how essential your friends are to your mental health.  Zoe is angry, adrift, trying to cope with the loss of her friend, and has no one save for an unhelpful therapist to discuss this with.  She waits to describe the night of her friend's suicide until the climax of the novel, and the moment is eye-opening.<br /><br />The parents in this book were very realistic.  They were unhelpful to the teens, and they were mistrustful of their childrens' stories, based on their past behavior.  As an adult, I can relate to the parents' decisions regarding their children, but as a post-teenager, I relate more to how crushing the adults' actions were to the teens.<br /><br />In discussing this book with others and reading the other reviews, it is clear to me that adults have trouble \\"getting\\" this book, while teenagers immediately identify.  As someone not too long out of high school, this book really hit home for me.  It also resonated with my 16-year-old sister.  Each of us started the book during the day and then had to stay up the entire night because we were so drawn into the story.  I finished it at 2:30 AM and I was very emotionally stirred.  So I caution you, don't start this book right at bedtime!	2005-08-29
US	52887769	RGR80HK4DR9WB	0439388813	752339831	A Corner Of The Universe	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Excellent book	Martin has broken out of genre fiction with a real winner of a book, one that can be enjoyed by fiction lovers of any age.  This would be a great gift for an 11- or 12-year old girl, but I've recommended it to many adults, too.<br /><br />I hope this book also serves the higher purposes of opening the eyes of YA readers to the human nature of people who are different from the norm.  If children haven't had a chance to interact with different people in school, this book will serve to make anyone more comfortable with people with special needs.<br /><br />I liked Hattie as a narrator, and if you want to read another really convincing and touching young narrator, try Alison McGhee's Shadow Baby.	2005-08-29
US	52887769	R2PC160FUZ6CRT	1573223158	394899911	My Friend Leonard	Books	5	87	137	N	N	Larger than life, all-consuming, and absoultely amazing	First of all, if you haven't read Frey's first memoir, A Million Little Pieces, then stop right here and go get it.  Once you've been woken up by that book, come to this book to read the continuation of the story.  In My Friend Leonard, Frey serves his jail time for cocaine-influenced assault and then goes out into Chicago to try to rebuild his life.  He's been alcohol- or drug-addicted since he was 10, and he's only in his early 20's now, and he has no idea how to hold a job, how to relate to people without alcohol, how to go on a date while sober (he has his first sober date in Chicago), or how to deal with bone-crushing pain and loss without turning to substance abuse to try to forget it all.  When James gets a 25-cent per hour raise and is offered the change to be a doorman outside a crappy bar instead of cleaning the tables and floors, he realizes it is his first promotion of his life, the first time he didn't completely screw up and lose his job.  He celebrates this small victory.<br /><br />A mobster named Leonard (we met him in rehab in A Million Little Pieces) becomes a father-figure and guardian angel to James during the recovery process.  James struggles with how much help he wants to accept from his friend.  These two unlikely friends form an amazing bond, and by the end of the book the reader learns how much James (who has absolutely nothing in terms of money or connections or skills) was able to give to his older friend Leonard.<br /><br />James has a unique approach to sobriety.  He rejected AA in rehab, saying that people substitute the addition to alcohol for an addition to meetings.  He puts himself near alcohol as a test of his strength.  He totes around a bottle of cheap ethanol wine in Chicago to remind himself that he can give in to his demons, to his Fury, at any time.  In interviews, Frey has made it clear he is not a self-help guru, and he does not advocate his approach for everyone, but that it was the only way he could deal with his addiction.<br /><br />In addition to his unique sobriety approach, James has a one-of-a-kind writing style.  He writes in stream of consciousness and eschews pronounciation rules.  It's very accessible and still manages to make sense.  James has his own voice, and I've grown to love it as the way he speaks.  The reader comes to know James intimately through his writing, to feel like they are a part of his world.<br /><br />It took me a few days to absorb this book before I could begin writing about it.  I bawled at many places during the reading, and I hesitate to write that in my review, because this is definitely not a sappy or weepy book.  It's full-frontal and pulls no punches, and it really hit me hard.  For those who want more, James Frey has an author website with message boards, and he regularly posts in repsonse to questions on there.<br /><br />If you enjoyed Frey's memoirs, I also recommend Augusten Burroughs's \\"Dry.\\"ition to his unique sobriety approach, James has a one-of-a-kind writing style.  He writes in stream of consciousness and eschews pronounciation rules.  It's very accessible and still manages to make sense.  James has his own voice, and I've grown to love it as the way he speaks.  The reader comes to know James intimately through his writing, to feel like they are a part of his world.    It took me a few days to absorb this book before I could begin writing about it.  I bawled at many places during the reading, and I hesitate to write that in my review, because this is definitely not a sappy or weepy book.  It's full-frontal and pulls no punches, and it really hit me hard.  For those who want more, James Frey has an author website with message boards, and he regularly posts in repsonse to questions on there.    If you enjoyed Frey's memoirs, I also recommend Augusten Burroughs's \\"Dry.\\"	2005-08-21
US	52887769	R3KQ3IQ6LEH5UM	0385732147	138615728	Girl, 15, Charming but Insane	Books	5	11	11	N	N	Absolute realism, Limb captures the life and times of a teenaged girl	Sue Limb has spun a beautifully realistic story about the trials of being a teenaged girl.  Jess, the narrator, is spunky, witty, and trying to find her place in the world.  Her adventures and her take on life cracked me up and reminded me so much of my own experiences.<br /><br />Jess has trials relating to boys and balancing her friendship with Flora with the fact that Flora always seems to one-up her in any situation.  The fine line between loving your best friend and wanting to rip her head off because she is better at everything is portrayed beautifully.  On the boys front, you know Jess is headed for disaster when, instead of purchasing a \\"gel bra,\\" she makes her own at home with minestrone soup and some baggies.  Drama ensues, but it isn't at all predictable and it turns out in an unexpected way.<br /><br />This is a British book, so American readers will have to adjust a bit to the slang, which I found endearing.  The characters in here aren't goody two-shoes, but they are basically good kids, and this book is appropriate for any younger reader.	2005-08-17
US	52887769	R1NY323FKLCFDO	0767905202	527463952	Mr. Maybe: A Novel	Books	4	0	2	N	N	One of the true talents in the chick lit genre	Jane Greene is one of the true talented writers in the much maligned chick lit genre. Her Mr. Maybe is a complete page turner, mostly because the reader is in love with Nick and wants Libby to get back with him. I breezed through this book, enjoying every minute of the adventure, and I didn't want it to end. Libby is a modern woman and a role model for pursuing her happiness and fulfillment without sacrificing herself. Highly recommended!	2005-08-15
US	52887769	R3A3R33W4P3SBP	0440241812	796714451	Shopaholic Takes Manhattan	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Continue with the adventures of Becky Bloomwood	This book makes an excellent companion to the first one about Becky Bloomwood, Confessions of a Shopaholic.  Becky continues her outrageous shopping habits, which I could identify with on some levels.  One of my favorites is when she spends a ridiculous amount of money in a stationery shop, including buying a thank-you card addressed to a tennis instructor.  \\"Because I'm planning to have some tennis lessons next summer, and I'll want to thank my instructor, won't I?\\"<br /><br />Americans will be able to relate to the places and brands Becky shops for in Manhattan better than they could with her London botiques in the first book.  Her adventures at sample sales are absolutely terrific.<br /><br />The first two books in the Shopaholic series are the best, and the Becky character gets very tiresome in the follow-on novels.  These two are gems that I would recommend to any chick lit lover or someone looking for a light and funny read.	2005-08-15
US	52887769	R1BPWZ77T08XN8	0385336179	902335429	Shopaholic Ties the Knot (Shopaholic, No 3)	Books	3	1	2	N	N	The Becky character gets flat and tiresome in this book	People who loved the first two installments of the Shopaholic series should prepare to be disappointed in this third book.  The humor and whimsy that made me fall in love with Becky are gone.  The central plot here is that Becky buries her head in the sand while conflicting weddings in two different parts of the world are being planned for her.  The drama was entertaining for 20 pages, but NOT for an entire book.  She could have easily resolved the situation by having one real wedding and one blow-out wedding party, which is something many couples who have a need to celebrate in two places do.  The drama was stretched out, and I did not admire Becky as a woman for her lack of initiative or backbone.	2005-08-15
US	52887769	RYT4B8RATW3NW	044022103X	10089389	One True Thing: Love What You Have	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Breathtaking novel about coming of age and relating to parents	This book had a good buzz around it, and I picked it up without knowing it was about a mother dying of cancer.  That's not my usual fare, and I'm glad I got into this novel, because it was absolutely amazing.  This is a must-read for any mother or daughter, and I think it would be enjoyed by high school readers, especially those in the AP-English fast-track, because Ellen is a perfect example of a high school overahiever whose adult life gets put on hold to take care of her mother.  Many high schoolers will be able to relate to Ellen.<br /><br />Ellen always favored her father when growing up, but during her mother's illnes she perceives him as completely selfish, and she starts to learn about her mother as a person.  It is tragic that it takes terminal illness for Ellen to learn about the magic of the softer side of her mother, the loving and cooking part that isn't focused on academia and a fast paced career.  Watching the mother-daughter relationship blossom while mom is under Ellen's care is abosolutely beautiful and will transport you to another place.<br /><br />There's a great moral dilemma about euthanasia in here, and the novel starts out with Ellen in jail for her mother's death, and then Quindlen fills in the backstory so that the reader can decide for themselves what they think the right action was.  The Epilogue to the book brought me a sense of closure.  This is a masterpiece and I highly recommend it to any literature lover.	2005-08-15
US	52887769	R2VRH9AS31BIIS	0446673544	656995955	Sex and the City	Books	2	4	5	N	N	Hard to read if you don't know the series	I'm a Candace Bushnell fan (Trading Up and 4 Blondes), but I've never seen Sex and the City the TV series.  I found this book impossible to get into.  It was a bunch of disjointed paragraphs and bold headings that jumped through past and present time and seemed to change narrators.  I was never sure who was talking or what was going on, but reviewers who love the show seemed to be able to recognize the inspiration for certain espisodes, so it appears to only make sense as a companion to the TV series.<br /><br />I recommend this book only to people who are looking for more as fans of the TV show.  If you are a book lover or a fan of Bushnell as an author, stick with her latest works or other great books about Manhattan life.	2005-08-15
US	52887769	R1VFOUVKOIXDYX	0785263268	102619578	The Total Money Makeover: A Proven Plan for Financial Fitness	Books	5	144	166	N	N	Must-read for people with major problems and for those with little debt	Finally, a book that speaks to everyone, from those who are complete financial disasters to those who pay their bills on time, but overpend and need to reduce their debt load.  Too many books about debt focus only on paying your bills on time and reducing your interest rates, while ignoring the people who have too much debt and are too smart about it, never paying a late fee and keeping it all at low interest.<br /><br />I have never heard Ramsey's radio show, but this book was a huge wake-up call for me.  It is motivational and it will get you pumped to get intense about reducing your debt load and living only with the cash you have today.  The strategies are excellent, the advice is solid, and people have turned their lives around under Ramsey's guidance.  There are a lot of testimonials in this book, perhaps a few too many, but I enjoyed seeing the success stories and seeing the different kinds of people who turned to Ramsey's method.<br /><br />This book has wide appeal and everyone should check it out once to give their finances a good sanity check.	2005-08-15
US	52887769	R3QPNLL6KL8BLB	0440241413	841557271	Confessions of a Shopaholic	Books	5	3	3	N	N	A true gem of a book; the best of the entire series	If you are considering trying out a Shopaholic book, definitely make this one your first read.  They've gotten less fun and more annoying as Kinsella has tried to ride out the Becky character for far too long.  This book, stand-alone, is completely hilarious.<br /><br />Becky is unbelievably genuine in her beliefs. She truly believes she can completely re-invent herself by buying expensive cooking equipment and cooking at home forever and ever, or that buying a dozen Christmas gifts in March means she will never have to shop again for the rest of the year.  I saw so much of myself in her, only blown up to outrageously funny and loveable proportions.  Most women will identify with some part of Becky's shopping habits.<br /><br />I'm one of the few people who didn't find Bridget Jones hilarious, and I think Kinsella managed to succeed where that book in failed, in showing us the inner workings of a slightly delusional woman via her journal of shopping or food.	2005-08-15
US	52887769	R137DSWK0EMBW6	1592571166	20350363	The Complete Idiot's Guide to Beating Debt, 2E	Books	3	4	5	N	N	Only for the extremely clueless, not a real money makeover book	If you are at all aware of the credit and debt industry or in any way a responsible adult, this book will not help you out.  The most useful piece of information I found in it was a quote from Thomas Jefferson:  \\"Never buy what you do not want because it is cheap; it will never be dear to you.\\"<br /><br />If you are a responsible person trying to beat debt, this book is too remedial for you.  This is a wake up call for people who didn't realize that when you buy something, you have to pay for it by the due date.  I have more debt than I should, but I have never paid a late fee, and I keep it all at low interest.  When I took the quiz in this book, the results told me, \\"Your debt issues are not bad and are easily resolvable.\\"<br /><br />This book is a great tutorial if you want to declare bankruptcy or you have completely stuck your head in the sand for the last 10 years about your credit score.  Bankruptcy laws just changed to make it harder, however, so you might need to pick up an updated manual.<br /><br />If you are a responsible person who wants to get intense about beating debt, then Dave Ramsey's Total Money Makeover is an absolute must-read.	2005-08-15
US	52887769	R1797P85EEC3YB	0375760911	535819181	The Idiot Girls' Action-Adventure Club: True Tales from a Magnificent and Clumsy Life	Books	5	9	11	N	N	A must-read for anyone post-college and pre-kids	This book has appealed to everyone in their 20's and 30's I've given it to.  It is laugh out loud funny, and one of the early lines that grabbed me was on p.3, \\"Somewhere in between being drunk yesterday and sober today, my keys disappeared.\\"  Notaro has hilarious adventures on the dating scene, the bar scene (she warns against the pitfalls of DWI's, dialing while intoxicated), dealing with her mother, finding yourself post-college, and much more.  Each essay is short and can stand alone.  I never wanted this book to end!<br /><br />A terrific companion to this book is Notaro's 2004 book I Love Everybody (And Other Atrocious Lies).  In that, Notaro writes about the process of getting Idiot Girls' published and how her newspaper career was completely unraveling during the writing of Idiot Girls.  There's lots more from Notaro, and another author that Notaro fans might enjoy is Sandra Tsing Loh.  Los Angelinos will especially appreciate her take on their city.	2005-08-15
US	52887769	R33FIRBN0WKDR4	0060083964	843453239	Mr. Paradise	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Leonard scores again with his unique brand of crime fiction	I'm a casual Leonard fan who has read about a quarter of his novels.  I loved his latest work, which didn't disappoint in the delivery of numerous double-crosses from a multitude of radical characters.  As usually, all his plot threads got tied up nicely in the end, and the dumb criminals got what was coming to them.<br /><br />This is an edgy novel, full of hip street slang, gang references, modern fashion, and a realistic portrayal of a high class call girl.  Has Leonard been consulting with Candance Bushnell to get his sexy female characters right?	2005-08-15
US	52887769	RFRLYF3UZXUC	0609809512	657839683	A Year in Van Nuys	Books	4	6	7	N	N	Some hilarious moments, but I'm not sure about the overall message	Tsing Loh is a new talent in the essay genre, and she will appeal to anyone in their 20's or 30's who is post-college but still searching for themselves, while watching annoying overachievers from college become television anchors.  Some readers find her a bit too whiny, but she really hit home with me, and I loved her way of examining the world.  The book has some terrific hand-drawn illustrations and diagrams expressing Sandra's feelings (one winner is a pie chart comaring ideal time spent together by a married couple, actual time spent together by hetero couples, and actual time spent together by gay male couples).<br /><br />The end of this book didn't sit well with me, because the message seemed to be to abandon your dreams, and it was depressing.  The journey to the end definitely had its high points, though.<br /><br />Tsing Loh has some other great books about living in LA, and anyone from the area will be able to identify with the places and events she talks about.  Fans of Tsing Loh will love essayist Laurie Notaro, who writes about the same age and experiences, but definitely in a less whiny voice.  Check out Notaro's The Idiot Girls' Action Adventure club.	2005-08-15
US	52887769	R2HR5LJ8SFQY4C	0806520744	812429023	Who Killed Kurt Cobain? The Mysterious Death of an Icon	Books	4	11	13	N	N	Looks at both sides of the story, exhaustively researched	This book has been popularized as the one that contains private investigator Tom Grant's theory that Courtney Love hired someone to kill Kurt Cobain.  I read it thinking it would be borderline wacko with the conspiracy theory.  I was pleasantly surprised to find that it was an exhaustively researched account of the history of Nirvana, Kurt, Courtney, the days surrounding Kurt's death, and the investigation of the incident by the Seattle PD.  The authors do present Grant's theory and his main arguments pointing to murder, but they are quick to point out that there absolutely no smoking gun, nothing explicity incriminating Courtney.  They even point out some failing's in Grant's work and theories.  Their main case is that there are enough unanswered questions and questionable actions during the investigation that the case should be re-opened.  In fact, most people who review Grant's theory, when polled, say that the investigation should be re-opened to lay to rest all the discrepancies that he turned up.<br /><br />The authors took nothing at face value when writing this book.  Anytime someone claimed to have a degree, or that an incident happened, or the police were called, or that they said a certain thing, anything, the authors looked it up and verifyed whether it was true.  If they couldn't verify it, they identify it as a claim.  A lot of Courtney's official bio seems to be her wacky brand of lies and tirades, since the authors found many, many discrepancies in her statements, especially those to her biographer, Melissa Rossi.<br /><br />Courtney is a fascinating woman, a spectacle, a force to be reckoned with.  The authors remind us that no matter how much Courtney bashing goes on, we have to remember that our icon Kurt did love and trust her, and she was one of the few people he was close to.  The portrayal of Courtney in this book has made me want to learn more about this dynamic woman.<br /><br />Read this book to see an excellent case laid out in front of you, and then see what you think.  I'm reading the author's 2004 follow-up, Love & Death:  The Murder of Kurt Cobain next.of you, and then see what you think.  I'm reading the author's 2004 follow-up, Love & Death:  The Murder of Kurt Cobain next.	2005-08-14
US	52887769	R1EKBNVO5AIO90	1582345333	177512202	A Long Stay in a Distant Land: A Novel	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Breakout novel from a new talent in fiction	Chieng's novel is a family saga, but it is no thousand page tome.  Through short, funny vignettes than span decades, the reader comes to know the Cantonese Lums of Orange County, CA.  In this short book, the reader gets to know three decades of the Lum family in surprising detail.<br /><br />Chieng's timeline jumps around.  It opens with Louis, the protagonist, adrift and barely thriving in his post-college job as a magazine fact checker.  He is forced to move in with his gansta-rap loving dad, Sonny, to keep Sonny from trying to kill the man who accidentally killed his wife in a car accident.  When Chieng fills in the backstory of Sonny's boyhood, Sonny's marriage to Louis's mom Mirla, uncle Bo's relationship with Grandma Esther, and the relationship between Granpa Melvin and Esther, the story truly comes alive.  The family is unintentionally hilarious on all levels, from Louis's attempts to speak Cantonese with the correct inflection, to Sonny's love of rap, to Grandma Esther's famously dreadful turnip cakes.<br /><br />This book comes highly recommended along with the other Breakout Books of 2005.	2005-08-14
US	52887769	R2NPM22BMSX2V8	0345445856	216274565	Milk Glass Moon (Big Stone Gap)	Books	3	2	3	N	N	Trigiani gets her groove back after Big Cherry Holler	This is the third and final (?) installment in Trigiani's series about the people of Big Stone Gap and the MacChesney family.  The second book was an unrealistic portrayal of life after the death of a child, but in this third book, Trigiani really hits home with her central theme of mother/daughter conflict during the teenage years.  She knows her stuff and paints a compelling portrait of a family adjusting to the fact that their little girl is growing up.<br /><br />This book ends with all the characters having completed 180 degree turns on their lives.  Will this be the last we hear from the residents of Big Stone Gap?	2005-08-11
US	52887769	R1N302ZFI36O6H	0312333927	565853988	The Bitch Posse	Books	3	6	7	N	N	This book will completely suck you in!	Throughout this novel, Martha O'Connor manages to keep the reader interested a mystery event at the end of senior year that wound three high school girls together forever.  She doesn't reveal the secret until the end of the book, but the journey is well worth it and the suspense isn't overdone.<br /><br />This book tries to hit home on the theme of friendship, but O'Connor misses the boat a bit there.  Her high school girls are caricatures of themselves, and they aren't totally believable (since when does a cheerleader up and shred her uniform one day so she can hang out with a druggie crowd instead?).  They claim to have this everlasting \\"bitch posse\\" bond, but their bond of friendship isn't about being friends, it's about bitching about the world, lying to their parents, and doing drugs and alcohol.  I didn't really see a touching friendship in here, just some aimless girls.  Go read a Francesca Lia Block book if you want to be overwhelmed by girlhood friendships and finding your place with the misfits of the world.<br /><br />The girls face some truly dreadful adults in their lives, in the form of their parents and teachers.  They are right to be angry at the world about how they are treated, but I was upset that they took all their anger on adults as a whole out on one person, instead of working together to change their lives.<br /><br />The book is told from altnerating viewpoints of the three girls at age 18 and at age 30.  The style works and the story unfolds to shape these three women well.  Unfortunately, O'Connor gets more involved in the 18-year old story (which is the one which ends with the big suspense event), and the book ends on that note, with no resolution to what these women are doing in their 30's.  I was left feeling kind of empty about what happened to these women a decade after the big suspense event.<br /><br />I'm not sure who the audience for this book is.  It had a catchy enough description that I (mid-20's) read it along with my college freshman sister, and we both appreciated it.  It's ostensibly a story about high schoolers, but I'm not sure all the themes and language and drug use are going to be well received by high school librarians.  I wouldn't recommend it to anyone younger than college-age myself.college freshman sister, and we both appreciated it.  It's ostensibly a story about high schoolers, but I'm not sure all the themes and language and drug use are going to be well received by high school librarians.  I wouldn't recommend it to anyone younger than college-age myself. <br /> <br />	2005-08-11
US	52887769	R265H2NOURVTXW	0688163165	733601761	Mystic River	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Much, much more than a cheap murder mystery thrill	Lehane is a master novelist, and the murder in this book isn't just a cheap plot device to kick of his book.  He creates a touching story, so that the reader is just as crushed by Katie's murder as her family and community are.  The reader gets involved with the trio of boyhood friends, each battling their own demons throughout the course of the novel, shaped by an event from their boyhood days playing stickball in the streets.<br /><br />This is a fast-paced story full of twists and turns as the boys from the neighborhood and the police detectives try to unravel what happened to Katie Boyle.  Lehane sets the reader up for a twist at the end, but it still came as a complete shock to me.  As shocking as it was, it completely made sense when I re-considered the entire novel.<br /><br />If you enjoyed this book, check out the outstanding and psychologically thrilling Shutter Island.	2005-08-11
US	52887769	RZ9OBEGANXZF3	0306812274	161661538	How To Lose Friends And Alienate People: A Memoir	Books	3	7	11	N	N	Good if you get it as a bargain book	This is a good bargain book or library read; it is not one to own.  The inside jacket flap compares this book to You'll Never Eat Lunch in this Town Again.  This isn't You'll Never Eat Lunch, because the reason Young isn't lunching is because he is mediocre and uncharismatic, not because he revealed secrets and dirty laundry.  He's actually very protective of his subjects, not revealing many names.  He is only relentless with Tina Brown and Graydon Carter.<br /><br />Young has many philosophies which are uninteresting and lengthy, but he does make a good point about the American Dream and meritocratic society (a phrase coined by Young's father).  Americans think you can overcome social status and income to become anyone, so anyone who isn't doing well is dismissed.  Britons believe much more that your chances in life \\"are profoundly affected by who your parents are,\\" and therefore, \\"they're less inclined to judge people according to how well or badly they're doing.\\"<br /><br />I did notice a few errors and typos in this book.  Was it not edited at all?<br /><br />Young is friends with Candace Bushnell, and in many ways his novel is reminiscent of the social scene Bushnell writes about.  Fans of her work may well enjoy this true-life glimpse at the social ladder of NY.	2005-08-11
US	52887769	R1U4V072OQ1W53	0440241537	106527389	The King of Torts	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Fun legal thriller	I really enjoyed this legal thriller, especially compared to some of Grisham's other works, because there was no large evil all-consuming law firm or corporation which put hits out on people.  Those trying to \\"get\\" the protagonist Clay were the SEC and individual citizens--all through legal and established channels.<br /><br />Clay was an excellent protagonist because he was everyman, a man with good ideals and a good heart.  He set out thinking that he wouldn't get consumed in the greed of tort law, and then the reader was right along for the ride as he went down the slipperly slope of becoming more talented and powerful.<br /><br />One great quote from p. 183:  Mass tort litigation was not practicing law.  It was a roguish form of entrepreneurship.	2005-08-11
US	52887769	R2RBT8ZS8GKJRB	0743249992	281016025	Bringing Down the House: The Inside Story of Six M.I.T. Students Who Took Vegas for Millions	Books	5	0	1	N	N	Fast-paced eye-opening read	Fantastic!  Although author Mezrich reminded us a few too many times that he's a Harvard alum, he otherwise wove a fascinating tale of smart little guys vs. casino corporations.  The basic card counting scheme is well-known, but the team featured in this book used psychology to play even smarter, by using teams, so that the tell-tale signs of a single card counter weren't there.  For these guys, the game was an investment, a mini-corporation, not a fun hobby or pasttime.  They didn't do this to relax or for the free beer; they were hard at work trying to make money when they were gambling.<br /><br />This is a great look at a scam and is recommended to any non-fiction, gambling, or math lover.	2005-08-11
US	52887769	R1GDEQSHGG0U0X	0312422520	961531135	Positively Fifth Street: Murderers, Cheetahs, and Binion's World Series of Poker	Books	4	3	4	N	N	A real gem of a book that turned me onto poker	This is fantastic journalistic-style fiction that has all the elements of a great book:  gambling, Vegas, murder, sex, and the potential for personal ruin.<br /><br />This book is ostensibly about the murder of Ted Binion and the sex/money scandal surrounding that.  This storyline is what sucks the reader in, but McManus quickly abandons that story for a much, much more fascinating one about playing in the World Series of Poker, held at Binion's Horseshoe and founded by the Binion family.  McManus was sent by Harper's magazine to cover the Binion story, but he's a cocky poker player himself, so he puts his welfare and relationship with his wife on the line by taking his entire advance and playing into the World Series.<br /><br />Knowing that McManus has his own money on the line, and he's not funded by the magazine to make a good story, makes this journey absolutely amazing.  McManus teaches the reader how to play poker and gives the basics of the poker masters' strategies, so that the reader is able to play along with the highs and lows of the game.  McManus even finds himself playing against people whose poker books he has read, so he knows what they taught him and the rest of the world about poker, which makes for interesting mind games at the table.<br /><br />I would love to give this book 5 stars, but there is some material in here which really should have been edited out.  McManus goes off for pages about how he knows David Sedaris or the illustrator of Me Talk Pretty One Day, or some other fact that is unrelated to the book and serves only to prove how cosmopolitan the author is.  He also gives not only his childhood story, but that of his father and grandfather, and I found those to be very trying chapters that distracted from the high paced action of the book without adding any real meat to the story.<br /><br />This is a great intro to poker, and McManus gives the reader enough info to get them intersted in the game, and to know what books and software to check out if they want to start playing.  I highly recommend this book to any non-fiction lover.ftware to check out if they want to start playing.  I highly recommend this book to any non-fiction lover.	2005-08-11
US	52887769	R2GZ7BSYM2Q7JI	0375727345	498826779	House of Sand and Fog (Oprah's Book Club)  (Vintage Contemporaries)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Masterful, but in no way uplifting, story from Andre Dubus III	This is a tragic tale of a conflict over a house, which seems to be such a simple thing, but in reality represents everything in life to the two main characters, alcoholic drug addict Kathy Nicolo and immigrant Colonel Behrani.  As much as I wanted to identify with Kathy over the unjust sale of her house at auction, I could see Behrani's side of the story, too, so I was torn between the two sides of the story which Dubus painted via masterful prose.<br /><br />Dubus creates the most human characters I've ever seen, full of flaws, full of love for others, full of selfishness, full of their own ideals.  This book really made me think about human interactions.<br /><br />This is not an uplifting book in any way; tragedy strikes again and again for everyone involved, but it is still a masterpiece of storytelling.	2005-08-11
US	52887769	R2J9YCF7LCFL10	0060777516	479590427	Necklace of Kisses	Books	5	18	18	N	N	Re-unite with Weetzie and company; still magical at age 40	Fans of Weetzie and friends from the early 1990's will love seeing them all again facing modern issues.  Secret Agent Lover Man has been depressed since seeing the twin towers burn, and there are no more kisses in the marriage, so Weetzie sets out to the pink hotel of her high school prom to find some magic.  Her adventures are a delight to the senses, filled with exotic people, foods, tastes, jewels, and Weetzie's bright sense of fashion.<br /><br />Everyone who loved the first magical world of Weetzie will not be disappointed.  She has matured, and she deals with modern issues (including dishing about Botox), but her adventures are every bit as magical as before.  I admire Block for creating a middle-aged heroine who is just as snazzy as she was in her 20's.  Block also brings us back to the music Weetzie grew up on, which is a fun romp down memory lane.<br /><br />Witch Baby really comes into her own in this novel, and in a reading by author Block to promote this book, she hinted that she was feeling there was more to the Witch Baby story, and another book might be forthcoming.	2005-08-11
US	52887769	R2KUYWYAWUFOM4	0380732238	815166816	Smack	Books	5	17	18	N	N	Outstanding book that was nothing like I expected	When I picked this up, I was expecting some kids to think drugs were cool, then run with a fast sex, drugs, and rock n' roll crowd, have a huge tragedy strike, and then get the propaganda message that DRUGS ARE BAD (think \\"Go Ask Alice\\").  Boy, was I in for a surprise.  This book is an easy read, but a much more complex tale than a simple parable about how drugs are bad.<br /><br />The two main characters, Tar and Gemma, leave home for things that every teenager in the world has felt in some way.  Tar is abused, and leaves the hell of homelife for peace on the streets.  Gemma represents every teenager who is smarter than her parents and resents their control over her life.  She leaves for less justifiable reasons than Tar, but her emotions are ones anyone can identify with.<br /><br />There are a lot of people on the streets and in the squats--anarchists, straight-edge vegans, punks, pot smokers, and heroin users.  Tar and Gemma find friends and their own form of a family, and it is very easy to see how they slipped into the world of drugs, namely heroin.<br /><br />This book has shocking events in it, but the characters are so numb to it all that they describe it in a subtle and offhand manner.  Girls who sell the bodies for drug money in no way consider themselves prostitutes, because they have standards and they do it \\"on their terms,\\" and on and on.  The reader gets sucked up in this life and I found myself wanting to smack these characters and say, NO, what you are doing is not justifiable.<br /><br />This book has a beautiful ending that took me by surprise.  No, the world is not covered in roses in the end, but neither has everyone succumbed to hell.<br /><br />I'd like to make a comment about the appropriate age for this book.  My sister is a voracious reader.  She's now 17 and was able to appreciate this book when we both read and discussed it, but she had tried to read it at age 9 or 10, and it was too much for her to handle at that age.  This is a book for early high school, not for middle school readers.a book for early high school, not for middle school readers.	2005-08-03
US	52887769	R7ONZQ2OXU0M5	1400062241	299685337	Stop That Girl: A Novel in Stories	Books	4	10	10	N	N	Breakout book; enjoyable read	This is an Amazon Breakout Book for 2005, and once again, the editors do not disappoint with their selections.  It's a quick read comprised of snapshots of narrator Ann Ransom's life as she grows from grade school through college.<br /><br />The book starts out with a bang, as the spunky and self-centered grade-school age Ann deals with her mother's new boyfriend, losing her only child status, her manipulative and insane Grandmother, and an annoying schoolmate/neighbor.  I enjoyed seeing Ann grow, and she's no angel, just a girl trying to find her place in the world and deal with the people around her.<br /><br />I'm only giving the book 4 stars because I felt it kind of wandered at the end, and I didn't feel complete when I finished the book.  Author McKenzie portrays a psychotic grandmother, but the scenes with her are so brief that the reader barely gets to make up his or her mind based on evidence.  I almost felt as if the author used this \\"novel in short stories\\" gimmick to get out of having to fully develop some of the characters.<br /><br />Overall, this is a great book, and each chapter is a vivid portrait of the events which shaped Ann as she grew up.  I highly recommend this breakout book from a new talent in fiction.	2005-08-03
US	52887769	RJD2GCL7BM0JS	0312286686	195546958	Volcano Cowboys: The Rocky Evolution of a Dangerous Science	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Great book for a non-geologist armchair observer	I'm not a scientist nor particularly interested in volcanoes, but this is some great non-fiction.  It isn't a science book, although I did pick up a few facts here and there.  This is a dramatic tale about the world of studying and predicting the actions of volcanoes.<br /><br />The reader will learn about the economic impact of closing an area for a potential eruption, the politics of getting grants and closing areas near volcanoes, the risk of being in an active volcano area, the inside operations of the USGS, and much more.  It makes for a interesting read, and I know tons more about the history of volcanic eruptions after having read this book.<br /><br />Any fan of good non-fiction in the journalistic style will appreciate this book.	2005-08-03
US	52887769	R35B4RJRIZ9GWU	0061031550	151169729	Triggerfish Twist (Serge Storms)	Books	4	10	10	N	N	Dorsey delivers a fast-paced, whirlwind tour through Florida crime	Dorsey's novel is most easily compared to those of Carl Haissen and Elmore Leonard (and Dave Barry's two full-length novels), but, if possible, it is even zanier and more incredible.  It's set in Florida, with all of its quirks and swampland and the rampant crime from half-witted criminals.  Dorsey weaves a topsy turvy plot of dozens of threads which all come together in the end, with the bad guys getting their due and the good ones having it all work out.<br /><br />I'm impressed Dorsey was able to present as many characters as are in this novel, keeping them all straight for the reader, and then bringing them all together for a slam dunk ending.<br /><br />I haven't read other Dorsey novels, but I can see the style getting repetitive after a while, so I'll take him in small doses.  If you enjoy this book, be sure to check out Dave Barry's Tricky Business, which is a hilarious Florida crime caper from a talented comedic writer.	2005-07-27
US	52887769	R1IH5FM9M21EKD	0316779423	685145331	Barrel Fever: Stories and Essays	Books	3	4	4	N	N	Don't let this be your first Sedaris	If you haven't read any other Sedaris, this isn't the book for you.  Go pick up \\"Me Talk Pretty One Day\\" and \\"Naked.\\"  If you are already a fan of the witty self-deprecating voice from his memoirs, then give this a shot.  This is very different from the humor in his memoirs, and some of it just borders on bizarre.  I'm a huge fan and I was put off by some of the crass and downright weird stories.<br /><br />There are a few gems, and any Sedaris fan should hunt them out.  \\"The Santland Diaries\\" is the most famous, having been read on NPR, and that's a true winner (but it is also republished in the highly recommended Holidays on Ice).  Another one I particularly enjoyed was \\"After Malison,\\" which is told from the point of view of a rabid fan of the author Malison, who thinks no one else can understand her precious writer, and who self-implodes with her antics.	2005-07-27
US	52887769	R1762U4BHBQKEY	0802140149	35815621	I, Lucifer: Finally, the Other Side of the Story	Books	3	10	19	N	N	Difficult style to follow, not very original	This is a gimmick of a novel--Lucifer gets a chance to go back to Heaven if he can successfully inhabit a mortal's body for a period of time.  The mortal he occupies is the suicidally unsucessful writer Declan Gunn (notice that's an anagram of author Glen Duncan's name?).  There's a lot to wade through to get to the point of the novel, and the narrator (Lucifer) constantly interrupts himself to go off on any subject at all.<br /><br />While there are some funny parts to the narration, for the most part it is overly long and drawn out, rambling, and self-serving.  It made the entire book very inaccessible to me, and it exercised my brain to try to follow along and stay on top of where the narrator was going with his point (he often didn't know himself).<br /><br />Of course Duncan tries to have his Lucifer explain the backstory to Adam and Eve and angels like Gabriel, and so on, but the stories are just boring and don't really add anything amazing to what we all know from the standard Bible lore.  If you want to read a really amazing backstory of the Bible, go check out Christopher Moore's \\"Lamb:  The Gospel According to Biff, Christ's Childhood Friend.\\"  The book succeeds in having a snarky self-centered narrator explain the real story behind the Bible in every way that this book fails.	2005-07-27
US	52887769	R3DYU6VBVV368V	1400043395	813354201	Never Let Me Go	Books	5	2	4	N	N	I view this as literature, not science fiction	I didn't notice the \\"Science Fiction\\" sticker on the spine of my library copy, and I'm glad, because that would have probably unfairly prejudiced me against the book.  There isn't a lot of science in here, and while that might be a detractor for some people, I consider it a plus.  This is a beautiful story, and for the entire first half, the reader is caught up in a novel about childhood and adolescence in an idyllic boarding school, with only brief references to the science of cloning.<br /><br />The children in this book were surpisingly un-curious.  They accepted taboo subjects as such and didn't gossip among themselves or push their teachers for more information.  Most children would have pushed a little further, I think.  The reader, too, got stuck with accepting facts with no questioning, truly making the reader experience the formative years of the children in the boarding school.  I was curious throughout the book and kept turning pages to try to get to the reason behind the boarding school.<br /><br />I'm very impressed with how well the author captured the friendship between Ruth and Kate.  Anyone who has had growing pains with a childhood best friend, when sometimes you embarass them to make yourself look better or because you are in competition, but other times you would lay down your life to protect them, will be able to relate.<br /><br />I highly recommend this book to any literature fan.  Don't be put off by the sci-fi side of it--this is a beautiful story, through and through.	2005-07-27
US	52887769	R57QJCX9FP79L	0060566175	860210731	No Lifeguard on Duty: The Accidental Life of the World's First Supermodel	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Surprisingly biting, witty, and honest look at a super-life	This book is a delicious, honest and open romp through the life of a superstar.  Dickinson is very dishy and bitchy and I can imagine this caused many waves when she told-all, but it makes for excellent reading.  She revealed whirlwind top-of-the-world moments alond with the bone-crushing lows of her life, all with humor and wit.<br /><br />At times, the book seemed to ramble and I felt like we lost a storyline, but Janice (or her editor) always brought the story back and made her original point.<br /><br />I read Dickinson's other memoir, \\"Everything About Me is Fake,\\" before I read this one.  I highly recommend reading this \\"No Lifeguard\\" first, because it explains how Janice was shaped as a person and the growing pains she went through to get to the top of the world.  If you enjoyed this one, definitely read her follow-up, because she's in a very happy place for that book, and she's really in control of her later life.	2005-07-27
US	52887769	R15EX7DN3NNBD7	0743250605	910477078	The Know-It-All: One Man's Humble Quest to Become the Smartest Person in the World	Books	5	151	154	N	N	One of my favorites of the year; great story	This book came highly recommended, but I was skeptical.  Nerdy pointless trivia?  Becoming the \\"smartest person in the world\\" by reading Brittanica?  I was even skeptical about the format--an alphabetical tour through the encyclopedia, with starting entries on a-ak, a capella, Aachen, Aaron, etc.  Fortunately, Jacobs is a very talented narrator, and he had me hooked in the first few pages.  His method of detailing the journey from A to Z was very effective.<br /><br />This isn't random repeated trivia, it's a very good memoir.  We learn about Jacobs's career at Esquire, his relationship with his wife, their on-going fertility troubles, his playfully combative relationship with his brother-in-law, and his relationship with his dad and how dad shaped Jacobs as a person.  All of this is intertwined with his journey through Brittanica, and I learned a lot on the way.  Jacobs also spices up his quest for knowledge by taking a speed reading class, joining Mensa and attending a gathering, meeting Alex Trebek, and trying out for Who Wants to Be A Millionaire, among other things.<br /><br />There is, of course, the requisite Brittanica trivia, but Jacobs weaves it all into a cohesive narrative.  He points out how many people died of syphillus, the overshadowed siblings of famous people like Charles Darwin, the many occurences of cross-eyed people and those who had fetishes for them, the \\"good parts\\" and racy pictures in the Brittanica, and so on.  I also learned about ths historical biases of the encyclopedia and how the machine that is the Brittanica works.<br /><br />This book has mass appeal.  I know I'll be loaning it out to my family, because Jacobs tells a story most anyone can relate to.  I was sad when I got to the Z's and I had to part with this talented narrator.	2005-07-27
US	52887769	R1GFX3ZYWVOVVN	1582345503	681413531	The Bones: A Novel	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Great breakout book from Greenland; I'm waiting for more	This is a book set in Hollywood, in the intertwined lives of sitcom screenwriter Lloyd and life-in-the-fast-lane bad boy stand-up comic Frank Bones.  It starts with a bang, as Bones does drugs prior to a stand-up gig in Cleveland and then discharges a firearm into the ceiling on stage.  That scene sets up the novel, and Greenland delivers with an intriguing story of how both men try to revive their careers.  The irony is that Lloyd gets what Bones has been dreaming for, and Bones realizes Lloyd's dream, and neither is happy with the outcome.<br /><br />The novel has one climax mid-way through, and then Greenland starts Part Two, which covers another phase in his characters' lives.  The second half was more like a crime/detective novel, with a very different tone from Part One.  I'm not sure I loved the end of the book, but the rest of the journey was a good one.<br /><br />This is set in Hollywood, but you don't have to be an insider or a fan to enjoy it.  Greenland avoids the excessive brand-name dropping that so many novels set in LA and NY employ.  It has some very funny moments, especially when the straighlaced Lloyd is trying be as cool as his bad boy pal Frank Bones.  From the book, I learned some interesting facts about the industry, like how sitcom screenwriters employ a specific patter to deliver jokes, and how the audience has come to expect a pattern between lines and punchlines, and they laugh on command at the right time.<br /><br />I highly recommend this book to anyone looking for some good fiction from a new writer.	2005-07-27
US	52887769	R1WBZHV9G2M7Z2	044023722X	299088859	A Painted House	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Breaking out of the legal thriller	This book is billed as Grisham's first break-out from the legal thriller. This is a good read, but for something that combines both the small-town Southern life hominess of this book with the legal manipulations Grisham is best known for, turn to The Last Juror.<br /><br />This book was a good education on life in the 1950's for me. I saw the disparity between city car-factory workers and the midwest farmers, the emergence of television, America's love affair with baseball, and the hardship of having loved ones fight in Korea. The time period and farm setting were extremely well-done. The book makes a good point about status and wealth--no matter who you are, as poor as you are, there are people who are looking up to you and thinking you have it better than them, just as you look up to others who have it a little better than you.<br /><br />The book seemed to meander at times, but I enjoyed being transported into a different time and place in the history of my country.	2005-07-26
US	52887769	R2G4QMMLB510BN	1931686688	155535361	The Action Heroine's Handbook	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Fun gag gift, quick distraction	This is a great gift for the she-woman in your life, and a fun one to pass around among friends.  If you are familiar with \\"The Worst Case Scenario Survival Handbook\\" and the others of the like, you'll know what fun you are in for (the author actually wrote \\"The Worst Case Scenario Survival Handbook:  Dating & Sex\\").<br /><br />There are some memorable lessons in here, all accompanied by terrific illustrations.  Don't expect this book to change your life, but it will give you a few laughs and perhaps some tips on getting out of sticky situations.	2005-07-26
US	52887769	R3RMZGTQDCVE5M	0312422288	851819007	Sellevision: A Novel	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Great first novel from an author who has gone on to acclaim	I found out about this book from a Listmania list entitled \\"So you'd like to... impress Stangers with your reading material\\" It is early Burroughs, and it got me hooked on him as a writer before Running With Scissors came out. People who loved his memoirs would probably enjoy his dry satiric wit in this book, too. The entire plot is a witty commentary on consumerism and the cut-throat world of being a TV personality.<br /><br />The novel follows the lives of different people involved with the Sellevision home shopping network. The reader is rooting for Max to recover from his rock-bottom low, and we cross paths with a cast of characters who live larger than life as consumers and professionals trying to make it in the world. Peggy Jean is a masterful character, because she has a twisted way of thinking that Burroughs managed to get me as the reader to start believing in as the novel went along. When she faced addiction, I felt the same level of denial Peggy expressed.<br /><br />The novel has a delicious suckerpunch ending for all the characters. This is fast-paced, easy read and comes highly recommended. Try some early Burroughs to see him when he was just cutting his teeth as a humor writer.	2005-07-26
US	52887769	R290YUFAYPR2J	0393058875	640889190	The Golden Spruce: A True Story of Myth, Madness, and Greed	Books	5	84	86	N	N	Commercialism, history, ancestory, politics, science, everything	The most obvious comparison to Vaillant's work is that of Jon Kraukauer.  Both have chronicled superhumans in the wild, putting their main characters within the scientific, evironmental, and political context of the day.<br /><br />This is a book about so many things--the natural history of British Columbia and the offshore islands, the heritage of the Haida and other island British Columbian tribes, the lives of the courageous men who felled trees for logging companies in the 1900's, and the life of logger-turned-activist Grant Hadwin, who felled a magnificent and one-of-a-kind-tree.  Vaillant weaves a compelling tale of the formation of the islands and the native tribes, who first gained wealth trading sea otter pellets with the Europeans.  When that business dried up, there were tough times until the logging business picked up.  One tree, the Golden Spruce of myth and legend, was spared by the logging conglomerates as a publicity stunt, until Hadwin came along.<br /><br />Vaillant sets up the story well, priming the reader with history and science until Hadwin comes into the picture.  I only have two criticisms of the book.  (1) Hadwin is kind of \\"snuck in\\" to the story.  Vaillant speaks of Hadwin's uncle Angus and then brings Hadwin in without introducing him as the man the Golden Spruce story is about.  Unless the reader read the inner jacket, they have no idea why they are reading about this Hadwin (or Angus) character for so long.  (2)  There are no pictures of the mythical Golden Spruce, other than the cover shot, which looks to be altered so that it stands out more than the other green trees.  I'm not even sure if the cover shot is genuine or an artist's rendition.  The description of the Golden Spruce once felled is amazing, and I was dismayed that they didn't include a picture of it after it was felled.<br /><br />I learned a lot about the history of the logging industry and the super-men who work felling trees.  This is not a job for ordinary men.  I also learned about the necessity of participating in \\"evil\\" trades.  On p. 49 Vaillant states [of the sea otter pellet trade], \\"the natives were hostages, first and foremost, of the trade itself: once the market for skins had been created, they really had no choice but to participate.  Any village or tribe that didn't would become losers in the inevitable race for new arms, technology, and wealth.  Once aboard a juggernaut like this, it appears suicidal to jump off--even if staying on is sure to destroy you in the end.\\"  In modern days, the Haida tribal natives found them caught in the search for jobs--the only two available were fisherman or logger.  [p. 115] \\"Many Haida find themselves in a strangely familiar double bind:  aid and abet the plundering of their historic homeland, or get left behind.\\"<br /><br />This is an excellent book that will teach you a lot about science, history, politics, the business of logging, and activism.  Any non-fiction lover will appreciate the tale that Vaillant has woven.  As a bonus, his prose and metaphors are absolutely beautiful.I also learned about the necessity of participating in \\"evil\\" trades.  On p. 49 Vaillant states [of the sea otter pellet trade], \\"the natives were hostages, first and foremost, of the trade itself: once the market for skins had been created, they really had no choice but to participate.  Any village or tribe that didn't would become losers in the inevitable race for new arms, technology, and wealth.  Once aboard a juggernaut like this, it appears suicidal to jump off--even if staying on is sure to destroy you in the end.\\"  In modern days, the Haida tribal natives found them caught in the search for jobs--the only two available were fisherman or logger.  [p. 115] \\"Many Haida find themselves in a strangely familiar double bind:  aid and abet the plundering of their historic homeland, or get left behind.\\" <br /> <br />This is an excellent book that will teach you a lot about science, history, politics, the business of logging, and activism.  Any non-fiction lover will appreciate the tale that Vaillant has woven.  As a bonus, his prose and metaphors are absolutely beautiful.	2005-07-25
US	52887769	R2N5DBV0HUVSJK	0767913981	594225595	On the Down Low: A Journey into the Lives of 'Straight' Black Men Who Sleep with Men	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Worthwhile read about a topic that is kept underground	I, too, first heard about this book on Oprah, and I had never heard of such a thing as the down low (DL) before, so I had to check it out. This is a very quick read, and there isn't a lot of meat here. The information is good, but it could have been told in an even smaller format. Sometimes King gets repetitive and wandering in his stories, but it is still a worthwhile book to check out.<br /><br />Men on the DL are so in denial about their bisexuality that they don't even think about practicing safe sex. It is almost as if using a condom would be admitting that they are engaging in homosexual behavior. This is the real tragedy--the spread of HIV among the black community, especially to straight, monogamous women who catch it from their husbands. King also has anecdotal evidence that there may be a similar trend in the Latino community.<br /><br />This book should be a wake-up call for many, but I hate to think that every married black woman is going to be hiring a private detective to trail her husband. The very nature of this behavior is top-secret, so it is hard to \\"catch\\" your mate, and most wives are completely unassuming.	2005-07-24
US	52887769	R3PZQUJ52PL8VQ	0446693790	628954405	Dude, Where's My Country?	Books	5	6	10	N	N	Informative, straightfoward, and has a plan for action at the end	I usually go for books with classier cover art and titles, but you aren't supposed to judge a book by its cover, right? I found this at a friend's house and devoured it in two settings because it was so well done.<br /><br />Moore asks some very basic questions that we should all be asking about Bush and his administration. His style makes the content very accessible.<br /><br />Moore got the reader outraged, and then he concluded the book with a dozen concrete steps that we can take to get rid of the conservative administration (volunteering, putting up a poster). Moore provides statistics proving that the majority of us are liberal, but we've been tricked into thinking \\"liberal\\" is a negative and wimpy word. The end of the book validates all of Moore's arguments by provided a plan of action for interested Americans.<br /><br />He certainly made me get more involved in the 2004 election year. I really hope we learned out lesson in 04 and mobilize even more in 2008 for change.	2005-07-24
US	52887769	R236U863JDRORS	0897324005	887758507	The Best in Tent Camping: Southern California, 2nd: A Guide for Campers Who Hate RVs, Concrete Slabs, and Loud Portable Stereos	Books	5	1	1	N	N	This is a book for car campers who use tents	If you buy this looking to do some pack-it-all-in and hike-in camping, you are going to be disappointed. This book is for the car camper who wants to drive in and erect a tent. Some of the sites do allow RVs, it is true, but for the most part, these aren't going to be giant cement parking lots with RV hookups and people listening to the ball game on their satellite TV hookups.<br /><br />The site amenities are listed in great detail, and Bill Mai's accompanying blurb about his personal experience at each site is very helpful. There are miniature maps and detailed directions for each site, too. I like his 6-component rating system, covering beaty, privacy, spaciousness, quiet, security, and upkeep.	2005-07-21
US	52887769	R31QFMEXL4N6O	0060930934	609366713	Wasted : A Memoir of Anorexia and Bulimia	Books	5	21	25	N	N	Eye-opening, Marya made me understand her pain	Unlike some other memoirs and fiction I've read, Marya was able to touch me and make me understand her pain and understand her relapses.  I never felt like she was careening out of control, because she was explaining to the reader what her thought process was and why she did what she did.  Her narrative voice was amazing.<br /><br />Marya had a seriously jacked up upbringing.  I wonder what her parents think of her portrayal of them in this book.  Her mom had food issues and repeatedly told Marya that she \\"just came like this\\" and that her parents had no responsibility for her condition.  Her parents allowed Marya to convince them that she was okay to go to a boarding school filled with girls with eating disorders, that she could move in with a family friend in another state during high school (where she got dangerously thin), and that she could attend college at 17 (where she ended up weighing 52 pounds and coming veeeeery close to death).<br /><br />Marya had both bulimia and anorexia.  She made some enlightening comments on the differences between the two:<br /><br />[p. 107] I distinctly did not want to be seen as bulimic.  I wanted to be an anoretic.  I was on a mission to be another sort of person, a person whose passion were ascestic rather than hedonistic, who would Make It, whose drive and ambition were focused and pure, whose body came second, always, to her mind and her \\"art.\\"<br /><br />Marya admits to every embarassing detail in this book.  She details the coat of fur she grew when she starved herself near death, the weekend-long binges of food that resulted in her parents pipes bursting from all the vomit, her weird \\"safe foods\\" during anorexic periods (try some carrots covered in an entire jar of mustard).  She even admits to a lie about sexual abuse that she told during one period of hospitalization in order to deflect attention from herself, from her real issues.<br /><br />This is an amazing story from a very talented narrator.  It could have been edited down for length in some places, but I was so transported by the story that I didn't mind.  If you like this book, try A Million Little Pieces by James Frey and Smashed by Koren Zalickas.have been edited down for length in some places, but I was so transported by the story that I didn't mind.  If you like this book, try A Million Little Pieces by James Frey and Smashed by Koren Zalickas.	2005-07-19
US	52887769	R2RQ7S3HHJD7TN	0743406567	588083863	Fargo Rock City: A Heavy Metal Odyssey in Rural North Dakota	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Klosterman will rock your socks off	I first enjoyed Sex, Drugs, and Cocoa Puffs from Mr. Klosterman.  That has more mainstream pop-culture appeal.  To enjoy Fargo Rock City, you need to be familiar with, if not a complete fan, of the 80's metal scene.  Klosterman dissects the bands, the images, the fans, the personas, the albums, the videos, everything from 80's metal.  He's one of the few people who will admit to liking glammy bands like Poison while loving the \\"harder, more real\\" Guns N Roses.  Since I have eclectic tastes, I could identify with him.<br /><br />The more familiar you are with the material, the more you will enjoy this book.  Like Klosterman, I grew up on Appetite for Destruction and then watched GNR fall away to Nevermind in 1991.  He does a brilliant comparison of Axl and Cobain and of the importance of the two albums.  I found myself skimming over detailed analyses of subjects I wasn't so familiar with, like the particulars of a crappy Cinderella video.<br /><br />Each chapter is well-done and could stand on its own as a magazine piece.  Together, they take you through the decade of glam metal, and into the grunge era and the 90's rockers like Marilyn Manson, Korn, and Kid Rock.  This is truly a masterpiece.<br /><br />Allow me to highlight a passage on Satan (p. 133):<br /><br />\\"I have never met Satan, but he actualy sounds like a pretty cool guy. A bit geeky, perhaps, but I'm sure we could still hang out and play Scrabble or something.<br /><br />I've never been to Satan's apartment, so I can only guess how it is decorated. However, certain aspects of his personality have been well-established by the media: he obviously likes to play AD&D. He obviously owns a Quija board. He obviously likes to smoke angel dust. And he obviously has an awesome stereo with metal. In fact, he probably has a framed poster of Ronnie James Dio on his living room wall.\\"	2005-07-19
US	52887769	R1G6OUSZM2XFQW	0385722192	598573199	Lullaby	Books	5	5	7	N	N	Another solid hit by Palahniuk	This is the 4th Palahniuk book I've read.  An oft-repeated criticism is that his style is repetitive in the way he uses repeated catch phrases from his first-person narrator and then has an amazing knock-you-off-your-feet twist at the end.  My counter to that is to not read all of his books in one sitting.  I take a few months off between each one, so I can see the stylistic similarities, but I never get sick of his style.<br /><br />This is a terrific novel, but there is no gut-wrenching twist at the end.  You see the ending coming towards you and the pieces of the puzzle all start to fall together.<br /><br />Palahniuk manages to shock the reader with necrophilia, death, taking advantage of consumers, among other things.  This book is nowhere near as disgusting as Choke, however, and I found it easy to stomach.  I learned a lot about how cows are slaughtered, how journalists operate, the introduction of non-native species and how the bring havoc to the environment, SIDs, and much more trivia that Palahniuk worked into the prose.<br /><br />Invisible Monsters is my all-time favorite Palahniuk, so be sure to give that one a shot, too.	2005-07-18
US	52887769	R394AT3U5YZNVX	0679783571	564676745	The Broke Diaries: The Completely True and Hilarious Misadventures of a Good Girl Gone Broke	Books	3	1	3	N	N	Some very funny parts, but doesn't hold up as a book	This book definitely has some laugh-out-loud moments.  The author uses humor to narrate her \\"broke\\" days as a college student.  One early part that got me hooked was the scene in which she saw \\"all pants $2\\" at a drycleaner.  Looking through the rack, she found her own pants.  \\"They were on the $2 rack!  They would have cost me $9 to get out the regular way!  They'd been in there three months.  Always had something better to do with my $9, so I could never get them out.\\"<br /><br />Much more hilarity and light-heartedness follows.<br /><br />As a book, however, these scenes seem slapped together.  They were originally part of a weblog, and I think they would have been more digestable had I read a few entries per week and followed along with her life.  Reading them all together in one book gets very repetitive.  She uses the word \\"broke\\" every third sentence, so I'm okay if I never hear that again for the next three months.  Sometimes it just seems plodding and whiny, without any real context for why she is in this situation or any kind of deeper reflection.<br /><br />Give this book a shot, but read it in small doses so you don't get as sick of it as I did.  There are some unforgettable moments.	2005-07-14
US	52887769	R2P0GQO8G4CO0R	0375713344	890882757	Geek Love: A Novel	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Great novel--all the freakiness becomes normal to the reader	I was captivated by this tale of a family of carnival freaks, and pretty soon into it, you are overwhelmed by the world of Aqua Boy, the Siamese twins, the hunchback drawf, a maggot farm, and others.  Everyone in this novel is a freak in some way, and it's the \\"norms\\" who are boring and uninteresting.  One character comments that they only way you can tell the poor norms apart is by their clothing!<br /><br />This is a dark book.  Aqua Boy really would follow throw on his threat to kill any siblings who become more popular than him.  People really do maim themselves in the name of a cult following.  Yet it wasn't a depressing book, nor did I want to turn away in horror.  I wanted to learn more, to watch these people tick, to see the family that was formed by the blood-relative Biniewskis and their fellow performers and followers in the Carnival Fabulon.<br /><br />This book is highly recommended.  Read a few pages and you'll be hooked, wanting to learn more about these incredible people.	2005-07-12
US	52887769	R27NPXZKKZ4MH	0812971795	553962446	What to Keep: A Novel	Books	3	1	2	N	N	Quick read full of human emotion	Rachel Cline weaves a beautiful story out of three snapshots of the main character's life, spanning three decades. Cline manages to cover a lot of time in this short book, yet the scenes are vivid and detailed; nothing is skimmed over. I felt really close to Denny as I saw her in the different phases of her life.<br /><br />This book really hits home on the theme of parenting. Denny has a surrogate parent who affects her in each of the three life periods.  Denny, her friend Maureen, and another character are all children who grow up in a house without a father, and there are parallels between all of their lives. We see Denny go from a child with somewhat absent parents to the age where she considers becoming a parent herself, and the transformation makes for great reading.	2005-07-12
US	52887769	ROG4D3UGT2A77	0743464001	250310778	Maneater	Books	3	4	4	N	N	Fun escapist read, but I'm not picking up more by this author	I read this because I like Candace Bushnell's works (4 Blondes, Trading Up), and Amazon always has Maneater under the \\"Customers also viewed...\\" section.  I can see the similarity between this and Bushell and works like The Devil Wears Prada:  the characters and plot lines are completely over-the-top, with self-centered, social climbing women who still somehow manage to engage the reader in their antics.<br /><br />Clarissa's weird self-image and her husband seeking antics in the first half of the book were wacky and odd, but the second half of the book took a genuinely bizzare reality-bending turn, making the first half seem absolutely normal.<br /><br />Gazer is absolutely obsessed with parenthetical notes.  She used them excessively.  Often, the sentence could have been written fine with commas or by separating the thoughts into two sentences, but Grazer used parentheses to no end.<br /><br />Overall, there were some catchy, ditzy quotes and some great footnotes, but the book was bizarre enough that I won't be seeking out more from this author.	2005-07-08
US	52887769	R2DEAA9S45M30Q	0786887060	301892189	Trading Up	Books	4	1	5	N	N	A rare positive review of this summer beach read	I picked this up off a bestseller table, knowing nothing about the author or her other works.  I found this tale laugh-out-loud funny and completely, deliciously over-the-top!  I was surprised to see so many negative reviews and to hear from my friends that they thought Janey was a shallow, self-centered prostitute.  Janey really endeared herself to me, and I found myself totally convinced that she absolutely NEEDED the $40,000 grey pearls when she was out shopping with her friend.<br /><br />In the book, Janey tries out life both in Manhattan and in Hollywood.  Bushnell provides a good contrast between the East Coast and West Coast high societies, and it's interesting to see how Janey fits into each.<br /><br />My one complaint about the book is that some of the minor characters were barely developed.  Bushnell would just leave them out until it was convienent to bring them back in, especially in the case of Patty and Digger.<br /><br />This book made me want to go back and read 4 Blondes, the first book in which Janey appears, and I enjoyed that one, too.	2005-07-08
US	52887769	R31E5XG45GGP7G	1400032806	418900469	Under the Banner of Heaven: A Story of Violent Faith	Books	5	16	23	N	N	Krakauer doesn't disappoint!	I would pick up anything by Krakauer, based on the excellence of his past non-fiction journalistic pieces, Into Thin Air and Into the Wild.  I've seen enough of the ABC Primetime specials on the fringe-Mormons who still practice polygamy to have an interest in reading about that culture and practice, too, so the subject matter was an added bonus.<br /><br />This book is really three stories--that of the mainstream Mormon Church (a cut-throat business posed to take over the world by 2080), another about the polygamist, often incestual, beliefs of the offshoot Fundamentalist Mormon sects, and a third about the religious convictions and potentially schizophrenic beliefs of the Lafferty brothers, who believed that God commanded them to kill Brenda and Erica Lafferty 15 years ago.  The LDS church has veen in the spotlight more recently for the abduction of Elizabeth Smart by Funamentalist Brian David Mitchell.  After reading Krauker's interviews with Funamentalist LDS members, I can understand how Elizabeth went with her captor willingly, believing that God intended her to be his plural wife in a transient lifestyle.<br /><br />In all, I came away much better educated about both mainstream and Funamentalist LDS beliefs and practices (I didn't even differentiate between the two prior to this book).  I don't know that Krakauer provided any resolution, but maybe that wasn't his task.  He said he originally intended to write only about the LDS Church's relationship with its historical roots, but that his research pulled him in other directions.  I agree that this book is truly about the LDS church as a whole, but it was the Lafferty vignette and the interviews with the Fundamentalists of Colorado City that made it a page-turner for me (this is only natural; these are the parts of this book that would qualify for reproduction in a Court TV drama).<br /><br />Interesting side note--Krakauer mentions that the LDS church, contrary to American popular opinion, does not consider Salt Lake City a cultural and religious center.  They believe it to be full of heathens and far prefer the more dominantly Mormon outlying regions.ider Salt Lake City a cultural and religious center.  They believe it to be full of heathens and far prefer the more dominantly Mormon outlying regions.	2005-07-08
US	52887769	R31RUHNAAJ952D	0618446702	847790169	Reefer Madness: Sex, Drugs, and Cheap Labor in the American Black Market	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Gripping topics, falls a little short of being complete	Schlosser picked three gripping topics to suck the reader in:  marijuana legalization, migrant labor, and pornography.  I love the idea, but I was never sure how the three connected, and the book never really came together as a whole.  Nonetheless, I learned a lot from the different sections and I enjoyed the experience.<br /><br />The marijuana legalization section was exhaustively researched, well-written, and made an intelligent argument.  I was ready to go join a new cause when I finished that chapter.  Schlosser skillfully interspersed history, politics, legal statistics, and touching vignettes to make a strong case for a need for a shift in the focus of the war on drugs.<br /><br />I was similarly interested and energized by the migrant labor section, but I didn't feel that Schlosser provided and clear course of action to follow.  The proposed measures to improve conditions for migrant workers are highly controversial, and I can see both sides of the issue.<br /><br />The third and final section was the least well developed.  It had much less to do with the pornography industry as a whole than it did with the career of the very mysterious, but influential, Reuben Sturman.  Schlosser should have made this a separate biography, but no one would have picked it up, because Sturman is such an unknown.<br /><br />If you have an interest in any of these topics, or just like a good expose now and then, pick this book up.  It's not the end-all word on any of its subjects, however.	2005-07-08
US	52887769	R3S8TPS6809NKL	0345445848	287871634	Big Cherry Holler: A Novel (Big Stone Gap)	Books	3	2	4	N	N	Enjoyed seeing the characters again; not as good as the first	I was interested enough in the characters from Big Stone Gap that I had to pick up this sequel to find out what happens in the next phase of their life.  This book lacks the life-changing personal discovery that made Big Stone Gap such a good read.  It's a halfway-decent story about making a long marriage work.  The search for and the delight of new love from Big Stone Gap aren't here, and it isn't as much fun to read about people making it work in a humdrum kind of way.<br /><br />Making a marriage work after the death of a child is a momentous task, and one that wasn't adequately addressed by Trigiani.  There's a wealth of literature on the subject, but to me, Jack and Ave's marriage and their struggles didn't seen true to life.  It was almost as if Trigiani made up this trauma out of thin air to give their marriage something to stumble over, and she didn't develop it fully.<br /><br />This isn't as captivating at the first novel about the Big Stone Gap characters.  Read them in order if you are trying out the series.	2005-07-08
US	52887769	RD8G5XVDVW2A1	0142001740	378345448	The Secret Life of Bees	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Wonderful fiction; great gift for mothers and grandmothers	Everyone I've shared this book with has adored it.  Some of the criticism of this book being a white girl's racist fantasy of black people caring for her in the South is well deserved, but I enjoyed the book nonetheless and didn't think critically about it until I saw some of the Amazon reviews.  Enjoyed as a story about hope, and finding your place in the world, and love, and the strength of women when the bond together, this is an excellent tale.<br /><br />At first, I didn't like the book because it was too sad.  I was getting depressed by the early events, but then I found hope.  I was also worried about how Monk could wrap everything up in the end, yet she managed to deliver a believable ending that also made me feel good about the world.<br /><br />A good quote from p 92<br /><br />\\"Don't be afraifd, as no life-loving bee wants to sting you.  Still, don't be an idiot; wear long gloves and pants.\\"	2005-07-08
US	52887769	R2X8APU5QOFK5U	0812967089	960148459	Electroboy: A Memoir of Mania	Books	5	15	21	N	N	I was on highs right along with Behrman!  Must-read!	This was a recommendation off an Amazon listmania list, and I'm so glad I picked it up.  Few people have heard of this book and I wish it had gotten a better buzz.  It's absolutely amazing.<br /><br />As a reader, you'll journey right along with Behrman's shopping sprees, personal relationship self-destructions, and temporary psychotic episodes.  On the reverse side are his depressions, which aren't bleak days in bed, but rather uncomfortable rages and moments of complete self-destruction.<br /><br />Behrman goes to trial for his art crimes, and the whole time, he was really worried about keeping his family sheltered from the details of his acts.  Given that, I'm surprised how self-revealing he was in this memoir.  Nothing is off limits, not being a gay stripper, visiting both gay and straight escorts, an embarassing moment in an unemployment line, and many other details that I would purge from memory as soon as I had done them.  His text is rich with details of everything.<br /><br />This is a readable, well-edited memoir that tells a captivating story.  I urge any non-fiction fan, and anyone dealing with psychiatric illness, to give it a shot.	2005-07-08
US	52887769	RPDET2RZ8A793	0345440641	18282523	Dave Barry Is Not Making This Up	Books	4	6	7	N	N	Another hit from Barry; this man does not disappoint	I can read three or four Dave Barry books in a row before I need to take a break.  This is another solid hit and his fans will love it.  Highlights include the two-part \\"Worst Songs Ever Recorded\\" and the stand-out expose on a UFO situation in Gulf Breeze, Florida.	2005-07-08
US	52887769	R1NTLCEONGW83Y	0609600664	439982425	Dave Barry is from Mars and Venus	Books	5	1	3	N	N	Most laugh-out-loud moments of the recent Barry	This book gave me the most laugh-out-loud moments I can remember from a Barry book.<br /><br />Some of my favorite columns in this one include \\"Speed Trap,\\" regarding the abolishment of the national pretend speed limit of 55 miles per hour.  Another is \\"Eureka!,\\" regarding the invention of \\"buffalo-style\\" wings, which means (according to Barry) \\"to people who have been drinking beer.\\"  He theorizes that buffalo wings are the same bones over and over, run through the dishwasher before being re-served to customers.	2005-07-08
US	52887769	R2VYN7XBHD7MQX	0425192741	81364874	Tricky Business	Books	5	2	2	N	N	The best (so far) of Barry's full-length novels	This is Barry's second full length fictional novel, and the comparison's to Carl Hiassen's Florida quirky mystery novels are inevitable.  Barry's book is laugh out loud funny, full of situational irony and criminals who make you laugh while they do bad, bad things.<br /><br />Dave Barry warns the reader in the introduction, \\"THIS BOOK CONTAINS SOME BAD WORDS.\\"  I expected that from his unsavory characters, but the deaths shocked me!  I was unaware that Barry knew what a TEC-9 weapon was (I don't know what one is, but I also don't read South Florida newspapers), much less how to kill off mobsters with them.<br /><br />Two of my favorite characters were the old curmudgeons from the nursing home, Archie and Phil.  Every time they got in the same old fight, it was absolutely hilarious.  They admitted that they don't have to follow any rules, because people never get mad at them, they just assume that the pair is senile and unassuming.<br /><br />The band perfectly exlempfied pot-induced conversations about nothing from thirty-something men who still live at home and play in a cover band for little money.  I identified will all of them as someone I've known in my own life.<br /><br />Overall, the characterization, even of the bad guys, is fantastic, and you'll keep turning the pages on this one.  This is a solid hit from Barry.	2005-07-08
US	52887769	R22RX0EZB3EETS	0345416600	407565024	Dave Barry Slept Here: A Sort of History of the United States	Books	5	3	5	N	N	Re-live your elementary school American History education!	Re-live it, and this time around, have a heck of a lot more laughs!  Barry delivers a biting satire of your American History book, complete with hysterically funny comprehension questions and diorama project assignments at the end of each chapter.  I will never think of the Hawley-Smoot tariff the same again.<br /><br />The better you know your American history, the funnier this book is.  It brought back lots of memories of class for me!	2005-07-08
US	52887769	R3M9DIYOEP152W	1400080762	230714329	Boogers Are My Beat: More Lies, But Some Actual Journalism!	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Re-read this to re-live the year 2000 and all its quirks	I always trust Dave Barry to provide me with some quality laughs, and this book does not disappoint.  He covers the 2000 presidental campaigns and conventions, the Florida election counting debacle, the winter Olympics in Salt Lake City, and a bunch of regular weekly columns from that time period.<br /><br />Barry concludes with two amazing columns about September 11th.  These are stunning.  When I was searching for reading material/commentary in those days immediately post-9/11, I wish I had found these columns.  His ability to write to Americans in the face of tragedy proves his true depth and talent as a columnist.  (Yes, he actually writes about moore than just boogers.)	2005-07-08
US	52887769	R1WMOPPLP6SW7S	038073186X	339916413	Shutter Island	Books	5	13	13	N	N	A masterpiece that stayed in my mind for many nights	This kept me up at night reading because it was such a twisted and gripping psychological thriller.  When I finally finished it, I had to read a Dave Barry humor book to shut my mind down so that I could get some rest!  This is a complete masterpiece, all coming together in the end for a biting twist that makes complete sense and leaves the reader feeling haunted.  Anything having to do with a psychiatric hospital of the 1950's is bound to be scary, but this goes beyond your wildest expectations.<br /><br />This is an intense read--Lehane had my heart rate up for the last 1/3 of the book.  The dream sequences were very vivid, and this was the first time that I really felt an author had actually captured the non-linearity of a dream in text form.<br /><br />On a side note, the name Shutter Island is fictional, but when I made my Mom read this, she said Lehane is describing Thompson's Island, off the coast of Boston.  She used to play in the abandoned forts there as a child.	2005-07-08
US	52887769	RB4X9RWNEPYZH	0345438329	46292343	Big Stone Gap: A Novel	Books	3	16	17	N	N	Fun book in a charming Southern series	This book tried a bit to hard to be cute and loveable for me to give it a rave review.  I enjoyed it, enough that I read the other two books in the series, in fact, but Trigiani is a mediocre writer at best.  She uses short sentences with fancy vocabulary words thrown in instead of a fluid, delicate prose.<br /><br />Trigiani threw in lots of cutsey facts about her mountain town, but it seemed forced.  She overtly painted Big Stone Gap as a quaint town, instead of subtly drawing the reader into her world.<br /><br />The novel lacked detail in many places, and I wonder why Trigiani didn't expand some sections.  One shining star was the description of mining operations--I learned a lot from that.  Another time, a character mentioned that Mormons were good a geneaology (a true fact with an interesting reason), but it was never expounded upon.  It would have been easy to expand on that.  Another time, the main character gained respect for \\"asking an intelligent question about the explosion.\\"  What WAS the question?  Trigiani could have developed that to make our appreciation of the main character even deeper.<br /><br />All my gripes about her writing and storytelling aside, I was captivated by the characters, and I wanted to know what was going to happen next.  When the novel was done, I was eager to read the sequels about this charming (if forced) mountain town.	2005-07-08
US	52887769	R197WW86I8GZZS	0375829822	241194998	Saving Francesca	Books	4	26	26	N	N	A teen read to be enjoyed by moms and daughters alike	I picked this up because someone told me they loved it.  I'm an adult and I had no idea this was YA fiction until I realized that it was set in high school from the point of view of a high school girl, but by that point, it didn't matter, because the story is so great that teens and adults alike can read it and relate.<br /><br />I'm not too far out of high school, so Marchetta's descriptions really rung true for me.  Francesca deals with feeling like a loner, worrying about doing \\"the wrong thing,\\" worrying about which friends are her real ones, meeting people outside her \\"normal\\" friend circle and realizing that they are worthwhile, too, and dealing with her family.  Everything was vivid and lifelike, including Francesca's mother's depression.<br /><br />I went on highs and lows with Francesca, rooting for her the whole way through, and the end of the book has an excellent resolution that wasn't everything tied up with a pretty ribbon, but learning to deal with your place in the world and finding your own little pocket of happiness and worth.	2005-06-30
US	52887769	R20VCHUVQKVR3Q	1400050596	41924248	Whatever You Say I Am: The Life and Times of Eminem	Books	3	6	6	N	N	Well-written, but it should be called "Rap: 99-2003"	In the first few chapters, Bozza did an excellent job of putting Eminem in context.  It's important to remember what the culture was like in 99 when the Slim Shady LP came out:  TLC's No Scrubs was number one, Lauryn Hill and Celine Dion were superstars, as were the Backstreet Boys and Madonna.  The culture was different in 2000 for The Marshall Mathers LP, after Columbine and when the presidency was on trial.  Then Eminem lived a reality celebrity life until the 2002 release of his movie 8 Mile, which rocketed him into mainstream praise from \\"older\\" critics and a huge, diverse, fan base.<br /><br />I enjoyed the first few chapters of \\"putting Eminem in context.\\"  But then it went on and on and on and on.  I have no idea what point each chapter was trying to make.  Bozza wasn't telling a linear story of Eminem's career; rather, these are random essays/parts of interviews which could each stand on their own as a magazine piece.  There is no benefit to having them gathered as chapters in a book, and reading chapter after chapter about Eminem's place with Dre, DMX, Puffy, rap magazines, Rolling Stone, the VMAs, etc. gets old.  This is much less about Enimen than it is about pop culture, rap, and hip-hop from 1999 through 2003.  Bozza doesn't even do a very good job making Eminem the unifying theme between all his comments on pop culture.<br /><br />Bozza did an outstanding job with Tommy Lee on his auto-biography Tommyland.  This was his first effort, and it shows that he is a talented magazine writer, but not a biographer.  If you want a good read, go pick up Tommyland.	2005-06-30
US	52887769	R3OXN1EJ4JWM80	0375725784	381316770	A Heartbreaking Work of Staggering Genius	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Could have used some better editing in places	Overall, this book is a gem, filled with aboslutely hilarious and raw moments.  Sometimes, though, Eggers goes into lengthy, bordering on boring, diatribes about certain subjects, and I wonder why those weren't edited down just a bit.  This was something that everyone in my book club commented on--there were some pages that you had to skim through to survive.<br /><br />The MTV interview for reality TV could stand on its own as an essay.  If you only read one chapter of this book, pick up that one (Chapter VI).<br /><br />The book is told from a raw perspective--Eggers has recently gone through some very traumatic life events.  I think his perspective is one of a kind--had he waited a few years to write this book, it would have been very different.  He includes self-criticism in his book, including verbatim messages from friends who think he his whiny and self-absorbed.  This helped me when I thought he was being whiny and self-absorbed, myself.	2005-06-24
US	52887769	R106I5PTFBPEKP	0805063897	671016982	Nickel and Dimed: On (Not) Getting By in America	Books	4	15	16	N	N	Worthwhile read, critcism is well deserved	This book seems to be a love it or hate it one.  Either way, it is a worthwhile read, because it will make you think differently about the people cleaning your house and ringing you up at Wal Mart.  My book club was split on the book--some found Ehrenreich superscillious in tone right from the start, and so everything she said was grating.  She did have an slightly condescending attitude of, \\"oooh, look at me, slumming it like the poor people, ohhh,\\" but it would be pretty hard to have any attitude other than that.  She does admit that she is privleged, and tries to defend herself by saying (p. 6) \\"So this is not a story of some death-defying undercover adcenture.  Almost anyone could do what I did--look for jobs, work these jobs, and try to make ends meet.  In fact, millions of Americans do it every day, with a lot less fanfare and dithering.\\"<br /><br />The section on working for Merry Maids was my favorite part of the book.  I never realized how un-clean they get your house!  People respond much more to the scent of clean and to the redistribution of dirt with a ditry rag, so these cleaning services are very superficial and offer little in the way of germ- and dirt-reduction for your house.<br /><br />Ehrenreich makes one excellent comment in her concluding remarks:  the wealthy get a housing credit in the form of tax deductions for mortgage interest.  Where is this housing credit for the people who really need it, but don't have the capital to make an investment in a house?  Even a fraction of the standard mortage interest deduction could really help the working poor.	2005-06-24
US	52887769	R3OXL8PCZH44HO	0449005615	678550726	Seabiscuit: An American Legend (Ballantine Reader's Circle)	Books	5	10	10	N	N	Even more gripping than the movie follow-on	I saw the movie first, and then read the book, and if it is at all possible, the book was even more gripping than the movie (which was very good)!  There was no way that everything Seabiscuit faced could be captured in a cinematic format, so the book reveals even more hardships the Seabuscuit team had to overcome in their journey.<br /><br />This is truly a book about capturing the nation.  Seabiscuit was important due to his place in the political and cultural events of his time.  I found myself wondering if the entire nation could be captured again by comething like The Great Match Race, the ultimate elite old-school East Coast vs. new-fangled West Coast match-up.<br /><br />This book is highly recommended, and I hope Hillenbrand continues to turn out non-fiction like this.	2005-06-24
US	52887769	RLVXMRRGU25PI	0060959223	683960669	Journal of the Dead: A Story of Friendship and Murder in the New Mexico Desert	Books	5	2	6	N	N	Amazing true-life story; a complete page-turner	This was originally a magazine piece, and then Kersten expanded it into a book.  I was hooked from the book's description, and this turned out to be such a page-turner that I finished it in just two days.  The story is captivating:  did a man perform a mercy killing on his best friend out in the desert, as he died from dehydration, or did he murder him in his sleep?<br /><br />The author correctly identified that this situation was not about guilt or innocencem but about the sentencing part of the trail.  It's a great moral dillema:  would you be able to watch your friend suffer to death?  At the same time, though, the law does not make allowances for mercy killing.  Watching the prosecution and sentencing of this crime was fascinating.<br /><br />I fault the park for this tragedy, too, and I'm surprised that didn't come out in the civil litigation.  The dead man's parents donated money to improve the park, though, so perhaps they are the type to do good without litigation.  The park charged too much for water, didn't provide containers for drinking water, and the ranger seemed to have never heard of the idea of clueless East Coasters stumbling around on a vision quest without the proper precautions, so he trusted everyone to take care of themselves entirely too much.<br /><br />Kersten has painted a grippping narrative that will make you think about the fine line between right and wrong, and how society should mete out punishment.  I hope he turns out more non-fiction soon.	2005-06-24
US	52887769	R2XLX69DH2UMLV	1566251893	806912803	Get the Edge At Low-Limit Texas Hold'em (Scoblete Get-The-Edge Guide)	Books	4	14	14	N	N	Decent book, but not my favorite low limit title	This is a decent book on low limit Hold Em.  Note that Low Limit is a 2/4 or 3/6 game, not the $30 blind games in Vegas or the big CA tournaments.  The psychology and right moves in low limit are very different from no-limit or tournament style play, and it is important to read a book directed at where your play is.<br /><br />Burton gives you very little of the theory behind poker, the odds, the \\"whys\\" of the best move.  Now, for a beginner low limit book, you don't want to get too bogged down in that stuff, but personally I find it easier to remember, \\"I should do  XX because the odd of getting YY are so much better than the odds of ZZ.\\"  Figuring out the basic odds isn't too hard, but it is treated only briefly in this book, and Burton doesn't really drive the point home.<br /><br />Frankly, this book has a lot of info, but it doesn't boil it down into strategies that you are going to remember when you are at the table.  You might get frustrated because you be paranoid about remembering everything that is laid out in a very verbose format.<br /><br />Personally, I didn't find this book as useful as the one by Lee Jones (Winning Low Limit Hold Em).  If you only buy one book, go for Jones's, because he really breaks down the hows plus the whys of each move, and every chapter concludes with a cheat sheet for you to remember your new Hold Em \\"rules.\\"	2005-06-23
US	52887769	R168ZBKN9JMJJK	1566913276	950997986	Moon Handbooks O'Ahu: Honolulu, Waikiki, and Beyond (Moon Oahu)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	High quality, durable format	This is a high quality guidebook from respected company Moon Handbooks.  I love the smaller format, medium-small type, and thin pages, so when you tote this along, it is very lightweight.  It's also very durable for a paperback--it's meant to be carried around in your backpack during your journeys.<br /><br />This covers just the island of Oahu, which is home to Waikiki and Honolulu.  It's broken up into chapters on the land, the ecology, the history, arts & music, sporting & recreation, and so on.  All of this makes great plane ride reading.  The bulk of the book is a geographically-divided tour around the island, listing beaches, attractions, accomodations, food & drink, etc.  I used this to get around Waikiki and found all the info to be up to date and very useful.	2005-06-23
US	52887769	R262361866B76Z	0760750432	835872684	Weird U.S.: Your Travel Guide to America's Local Legends and Best Kept Secrets	Books	4	17	19	N	N	Fun coffeetable book; not a guidebook	If you buy this planning to go on a wierd US tour, you'll be disappointed, because the directions to each place aren't very well documented.  If you want to visit any of these weird attractions, plan to make copious use of the Internet to search out better directions so that you don't get lost on the way.<br /><br />The layout of this book is gorgeous, and while it may not be worth the original B&N price, the Amazon marketplace price makes it a steal.  The pictures are just fabulous.  I love the personal narrations by different authors, but some other reviewers have noted mistakes, so they need to be taken with a grain of salt.	2005-06-23
US	52887769	R6FJWB47UGEMS	0916397564	540156906	The Underground Guide to Los Angeles	Books	3	4	7	N	N	I was sucked in by the title, but other books offer more	This book is a good idea, but even the standard Moon handbook has more hidden out of the way stuff than this one.  It's more like a series of essays than a comprehensive guidebook, so you can't turn to a specific area or a specific topic, other than the essay titles.  It's best as a guide to restaurants, shops, bars, and coffeehouses, but there are much better ones if that's what you are really after.  Everything is treated too quickly to really give the reader a good idea what they are getting into.<br /><br />I remember one thing in the Hollywood chapter they pointed out was the Pink Dot, a convienence store that delivers.  I \\"had to\\" go visit it, thinking it was a famous landmark, but it is really just one of a chain of mediocre conveinence stores.  I have no idea why it made it into an \\"underground\\" guidebook.	2005-06-22
US	52887769	R2A6RC5BU9ZN6H	1886070156	406975415	Winning Low-Limit Hold'em (2nd Edition)	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Absolutely essential for the LOW LIMIT player	This is the baseline standard for low limit Texas Hold Em playing.  There's a big difference between a 2/4 or a 3/6 game and the \\"big boys\\" games over at the Mirage in Las Vegas or the CA tournaments.  The psychology and the \\"right\\" moves in Low Limit change because people play differently with the small denominations.  I tried reading some of the poker standards, but I got too bogged down in theory and explanation until I found this book, which is expressly written for the amateur low-limit Hold Em player.<br /><br />In the 2nd edition, the author changed some of his advice from the first, updating it based on simulation testing and conventional wisdom.  He even admits to making a mistake in the first version in the Introdcution.<br /><br />This is a book if you are familar with poker and have tried Texas Hold Em.  If you've never played the game before, there are other books that are better first-time teachers.  While this does assume you have played before, the fundamentals are reviewed, and there's an excellent glossary if you need to refer back to make sure you know what the flop, trips, a check raise, or the nuts are.<br /><br />Jones is a student of Sklansky and Malmouth, so he's feeding advice to the low limit player based on the grandaddy of all poker books.  He's not some guy on the sidelines making up his own rules.  Poker experts respect this book as one for the low-limit arena (not the arena they're playing in these days).<br /><br />The advice is easy to follow.  Jones instructs you how to play before the flop (when you just have 2 cards in your hand), after the flop, and on each successive card.  He tells you what the minimum you need to stay in is, and he really improved my game by telling me when I should be raising, not just calling.  My husband and I took our knowledge to Vegas and did quite well playing with these new techniques.<br /><br />Hold Em looks easy on the big screen TV tournaments.  If you are out there shooting from the hip without reading any theory, I implore you to pick up this book to give your game some direction.  Just don't come play me once you've mastered it.  :)without reading any theory, I implore you to pick up this book to give your game some direction.  Just don't come play me once you've mastered it.  :)	2005-06-22
US	52887769	R11F52E909P5C7	096746370X	850418245	Exploring The Ghost Town Desert: A Guide to the Rand Mining Area, its Natural and Historic Points of Interest	Books	5	7	7	N	N	One of a kind Mojave desert history	This is a gem of history of the Mojave desert, specifically the Randsburg and Johannesburg historic mining areas.  These are real ghost towns, ready to be explored on foot or in your car, with no tourist traps or sellers hawking merchandise.  This book provides an outstanding history lesson along with all the practical information about what types of vehicles are needed for certain roads and where to find unmarked turns and roads less traveled.<br /><br />All directions are extremely detailed and I've had no problem following them.<br /><br />The photographs, which include both current and historic snapshots, really add to the content of the book.	2005-06-22
US	52887769	RX51Y6NZFTRCR	0826311482	482319330	A Guide Book to Highway 66	Books	5	14	14	N	N	Fun historical kitsch guide	The road out west from Chicago to LA can be tedious at times, and this cheap and fun little guide was a great way to pass the time.  It's an exact reprint of the 1946 first edition about HIghway 66.  I was able to call out towns and gas stations that were now in a shambles or abandoned on the side of the road.  Fun book, right price, and it made my trip more interesting.	2005-06-22
US	52887769	R2SUB62VZ9N5QA	0966405587	98723746	Mojave Desert Windshield Adventures	Books	4	13	13	N	N	One of a kind reference	This is a one-of-a-kind guidebook for the Mojave Desert area.  It's invaluable for the detailed directions to local desert haunts that aren't in any other guidebooks.  This is the place for a history lesson and some local hidden culture throughout Southern CA's Mojave.  I used it to tour Randsburg, Johannesburg, and get directions to Burrow Schmidt's tunnel.  I couldn't find any of these places in my other guidebooks.<br /><br />The book is obviously done in a vanity press, but that's forgiveable because there probably wasn't any other way to get this information out.  For the price, you get a book chock-full of off beat places you aren't going to learn about unless you find a local historian to give you directions.<br /><br />It is supplemented with the authors' own photos of many attractions (in b&w), which is very helpful.	2005-06-22
US	52887769	R3PIH71N2O9MR	1566913330	549241009	DEL-Moon Handbooks Southern California: Including Greater Lost Angeles, Disneyland, San Diego, Death Valley, and Other Desert Parks	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Essential guide for a tourist or native	I bought this book when I first moved to Southern CA, and it's a staple for referencing any trip I want to take in the area.  I am confused about any \\"political\\" leanings that the other reviewers have mentioned.  I use this for any attraction or site I am considering visiting, and I don't dwell on Ms. Weir's personal views on the Southern CA area, ecology, or business.  This is a wonderful part of the country, and don't let a few not-so-positive remarks ruin your visit.  Focus instead on the practical information found in this guidebook.<br /><br />When friends have seen me using this book, they've liked it so much that they go out and buy their own copy.<br /><br />For each area, in addition to major attractions, the book covers little holes-in-the-wall in the form of restaurants and clubs, or seldom mentioned LA landmarks.  I've learned a lot of history from this book, and it makes me a better tour guide when I have friends visit.  This book is exhaustive on the subject of Southern CA, covering any area I can dream of wanting to visit.  It would take years to visit all the places mentioned in here.	2005-06-22
US	52887769	R2UG07TK71CLNW	0811808211	338173600	A Little Book of Campfire Songs	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Good book, small format	I love that this book is light and small.  My only complaint is that it is hardcover with a dustjacket--something more durable would be more practical for toting along to the campfire.<br /><br />This is really a book of standards, not an all-encompassing book of some of the more modern songs you might have sung as Girl/Boy Scout.  Standards include Amazing Grace, America, Home on the Range, Kumbayah, Old MacDonald, Skip to My Lou, Taps, This Old Man.  All songs have the music written out for the first verse, and all verses are included.	2005-06-22
US	52887769	R2CIKQFD1GT2JL	1564406512	894055016	Off the Beaten Path - Rhode Island: A Guide to Unique Places (1st Edition)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Good book in a small format	This is a good book, broken up by geographic region, to some of the popular and the less-well-known Rhode Island haunts.  Most of this stuff stands the test of time, so it doesn't get outdated too fast.  While some quirky stores and restaurants are mentioned, the focus is really on attractions like bridges, parks, forts, museums, gardens, and other attractions.	2005-06-22
US	52887769	R1BS3V7RN145NZ	0811835995	605090471	The Worst-Case Scenario Survival Handbook: Holidays	Books	4	1	1	N	N	It's a gag gift, not as practical as the original	The original Worst Case Scenario handbook was a good guide, essential for your paranoid friends. I enjoyed that one, so for some reason my family has given me all the follow-on books as gifts. None of them really compare to the original, but this one comes close in some respects.<br /><br />Many of the scenarios are completely outlandish, so don't buy this looking for practical advice.  Unlike the original, this isn't a book to buy your paranoid death-fearing friend.  Some advice is practical, like dealing with swallowed mistletoe, driving in a blizzard, or dealing with a canceled plane flight, but it can get lost in the more outlandish, like fending off unwanted kisses, jumping from a runaway sleigh, fending off a charging reindeer, dealing with a meddling parent, etc.  Some situations just don't boil down to 3 easy to follow steps and a diagram.<br /><br />I do love the section on repurposing a fruitcake, though.<br /><br />Enjoy this for a small laugh and pass it around amoung the adults for the holiday.	2005-06-22
US	52887769	R5DWEYUXOL14Y	0762702095	855138035	Short Bike Rides Los Angeles (Short Bike Rides Series)	Books	3	5	7	N	N	Need to use some common sense on some of these routes	I bought this book for my husband, who loves to ride.  We live just outside LA.  When I cracked it open, I got excited about a downtown LA route.  My husband read the route and said we'd be crazy to be on bikes through some of LA's most dangerous neighborhoods (both in terms of crime and in terms of traffic).  A lot of these routes are nice in theory, but I wouldn't exactly want to put them into practice.<br /><br />There are better guides that stick to the well-known, safely traveled routes like the beach bike paths and stuff through the Malibu mountains.  This isn't recommended for a LA novice, because you need to know if a route makes sense before embarking on it.<br /><br />The lay-out of the book is great, with detailed maps and turn by turn directions.  If you know you want to do a route, it is very easy to follow along.	2005-06-22
US	52887769	R3RB5QEOYXGBFL	076270358X	144608424	Traveler's India Companion	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Terrific full color guide	This is a beautiful, full-color, glossy guide to India.  It is chock-full of information in a sturdy paperback format that will stand up to traveling wear and tear.  The illustrations make this a stand-out in the field of guidebooks.  Includes a full index.	2005-06-22
US	52887769	R1BZ3T4METJHEA	0897322169	887758507	The Best in Tent Camping: Southern California: A Guide to Campers Who Hate RVs, Concrete Slabs, and Loud Portable Stereos	Books	5	18	18	N	N	This is a book for car campers who use tents	If you buy this looking to do some pack-it-all-in and hike-in camping, you are going to be disappointed.  This book is for the car camper who wants to drive in and erect a tent.  Some of the sites do allow RVs, it is true, but for the most part, these aren't going to be giant cement parking lots with RV hookups and people listening to the ball game on their satellite TV hookups.<br /><br />The site amenities are listed in great detail, and Bill Mai's accompanying blurb about his personal experience at each site is very helpful.  There are miniature maps and detailed directions for each site, too.  I like his 6-component rating system, covering beaty, privacy, spaciousness, quet, security, and upkeep.	2005-06-22
US	52887769	R2C16HJX6AWAJY	1843530805	664071298	The Rough Guide to Southwest USA 3 (Rough Guide Travel Guides)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	My favorite Southwest guidebook	This is the mother of all Southwest guidebooks, and as one reviewer stated, it is most useful because it covers multiple states (New Mexico, Arizona, Southern Utah, and Southern Nevada).<br /><br />The maps inside are second-to-none.  I always trust these maps, especially when I need to get off the major highways to a less-traveled road.<br /><br />This book has medium-to-small type and thin pages, so they pack a lot of information into a small space.  This is great for the traveler who doesn't want to lug around a huge and heavy book.<br /><br />Every town has a good description, history, and information, followed by a list of practicalities like where to eat, where to stay, where to get more information.  The Indian reservations are covered in great detail, and this was essential for my trip.<br /><br />Love this book and I highly recommend it to anyone driving through the Southwest.	2005-06-22
US	52887769	R1R6SIGDBW4Z1Z	0878339779	51538820	Alternative Weddings: An Essential Guide for Creating Your Own Ceremony	Books	3	13	13	N	N	Good starting point, but you'll need other references	This book is a good starting point for ideas for an alternative wedding, but you'll end up needing other references to flesh out your planning.  I bought this and read it only once; I wish I had just checked it out of the library instead.<br /><br />The book isn't very well laid out, but you can find some good info if you dig through it.<br /><br />Ceremonies listed include Protestant, Quaker, Unitarian, Jewish, Civil, Religious Blessing, Interfaith Buddist, Baha'i, Spiritualist, Pagan, Druid, Humanist, Viking, Pacifist.  Gay and lesbian ceremonies and Honeymoon/destination weddings are also covered.	2005-06-20
US	52887769	R3SZPETDTRRLZS	0899332854	344740694	Southern & Central California Atlas & Gazetteer: Detailed Topographic Maps, Back Roads, Outdoor Recreation, GPS Grids	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Not a standard road guide	This is not the book you want to take with you if you are navigating the CA freeways or surface streets.  I use it solely for backwoods trips into the Sequoias and the Kern Valley, and even then, it can be a little frustrating to a novice.  I use AAA maps as a first resort, and this as my second (last) resort.<br /><br />Also, all of the elevations are in meters, which isn't what I'm used to, but it might be a standard for hiking that I'm not aware of...?	2005-06-19
US	52887769	R2WRIPLHXVXW79	002863716X	382917457	Weight Watchers New Complete Cookbook	Books	5	16	16	N	N	If you buy only one cookbook, it should be this one	I've seen a lot of the Weight Watchers cookbooks, and this is the most all-purpose general-appeal one I've seen.  I'd even go as far as to say this is the Joy of Cooking for the Weight Watchers crowd.<br /><br />Many of these recipes have become standards in our house, and they never taste like \\"diet\\" food at all.  This is just a common sense good-health cookbook that happens to provide points values for people following the Weight Watchers program.  There is a huge variety of recipes, nothing is repeated, and it would take a very long time and much effort to ever get sick of this cookbook.<br /><br />I will repeat one common complaint of reviewers--the book doesn't state what the serving size is, just how many servings there are.  This means you have to divide your whole soup (or whatever) out into 6 portions, then measure, to get the portion size.  I've made notes to myself about any of the recipes that I've tried, but I wish the authors had just done that from the beginning.<br /><br />I adore the spiral format of this cookbook.  I hate having to destroy the spine of a book to make it lay flat for my uses.  The pages are also high-gloss, which helps if anything accidentally gets spilled on them.	2005-06-19
US	52887769	R3GJVQFKP71FC3	0688163785	800738491	Emeril's TV Dinners: Kickin' It Up A Notch With Recipes From Emeril Live And Essence Of Emeril	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Recommended for the Emeril fan you know	I got this because I told someone I liked Emeril (about the five times a year I manage to catch his show).  It's a gorgeous book and I highly recommend it for any avid Emeril fan.  The recipes are well organized, the layout is beautiful, and it's a collector's item for a fan.  For a cook who doesn't love/watch Emeril, it doesn't offer much.<br /><br />I also tend to do a lot of healthy and low-fat cooking, which this book is not amenable to.  The food is delicious, but you pay for that it fat in calories.<br /><br />Many of the recipes are accompanied by a narrative from Emeril about, for example, the different types of potatoes you might use in this recipe, or the techniques used in cooking it, or a cooking history lesson.  These make the book a stand-out item, but again, it mostly stands out for the rabid Emeril fans.	2005-06-19
US	52887769	R7NEWM8H3S859	0684818701	422504912	The All New All Purpose: Joy of Cooking	Books	5	11	13	N	N	Your most basic cookbook; the foundation of your kitchen	Having never owned any previous versions of The Joy of Cooking (I did use them growing up), I can't comment on any contrast between this and the previous releases.  For me, this is the baseline standard of my kitchen.  It's the all-knowing reference.<br /><br />--If I buy a new vegetable like asparagus and want to know how to cook it, this is where I turn.<br /><br />--If I want to try a new food like chocolate mousse, and I need to learn how to make it, this is where I turn.<br /><br />--When I met my husband and he asked me to make pot roast, which was never cooked in my house, this is where I turned to learn what kind of meats and vegetables to use, and how to prepare the meal.<br /><br />--When I want to make the perfect flaky pie crust that my father always made growing up, this is where I turn.<br /><br />--When I wanted to make shish kebabs, this is where I turned, and it taught me not to place the pineapple next to the beef, or it would ruin the meat by over-tenderizing it.<br /><br />--If I want to make a basic standard like Caesar dressing, this is where I turn.<br /><br />I rest easy knowing that I have this reference to turn to if I have a cooking question about any new food, recipe, or technique.<br /><br />This is not a book for sexy new full-color recipes.  One of those should be the second book you buy for your kitchen (after this one).  And when your new-fangled cookbook doesn't explain soemthing well or turns out wrong, you can look up those foods in The Joy of Cooking for the all-knowing time-tested ways to prepare the foods.<br /><br />I love that is has ribbons for marking your spot so you don't lose your place while flipping around.	2005-06-19
US	52887769	R1KVW6QA4JLC8W	1561483176	246790704	Fix-It and Forget-It Cookbook	Books	4	12	13	N	N	A lot of the same, but good for an emerging cook	I bought this book when I was 20 and had my first house and my first slow-cooker.  There are a couple of recipes in here (about three) that have become standards for my household.  The rest of the book just sits unused on my bookshelf.<br /><br />It's been said before, but I agree--there's too many repeated receipes with too little variation.  Who needs a dozen slight variations on meatballs?  Why not just put the best meatball recipe in here once and ignore the rest?  The user can always modify it to his or her tastes, anyway.  It seems like the editor gathered these in quantity to fill the pages, but did not edit for quality or mass appeal.<br /><br />I think I was attracted because this sais \\"NY Times Bestseller\\" and \\"National #1 bestselling cookbook\\" on the cover.  I'm lost as to why it would receive those accolades, unless there truly just isn't much in the slow cooker genre.<br /><br />If you just got a slow cooker and want a lot of stuff to try out, then you might like this book.  If you are experienced, you'll quickly tire of the dozen \\"variations on a theme\\" that you could have thought up yourself without having them spelled out as separate recipes.	2005-06-19
US	52887769	R1LQZUXIAB8KQJ	0945352808	556765983	The Natural Lawn & Alternatives (Plants & Gardens)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Small, short book on an interesting topic	I got this for a friend who has native beach grasses instead of a traditional lawn, and she was able to glean useful information out of it.  It's a very short book, and it doesn't cover every climate possible, but it also doesn't set out to do that.  There are plenty of good alternative ideas for your lawn.  I recommend this to anyone who wants to conserve water, do something natural, or try something a little different.	2005-06-19
US	52887769	RZ6LUKZJJ0AWZ	0892819812	558935747	Pilates on the Ball: The World's Most Popular Workout Using the Exercise Ball	Books	5	45	46	N	N	Terrific book that took my exercise routine to the next leve	I carefully poured over the reviews before selecting this book.  I bought an exercise ball and I quickly got tired of the 30-minute DVD that came with it, so I wanted new challenges.<br /><br />This book delivers challenges for beginners, intermediate ball users, and the advanced.  I am still on the beginner workout and haven't gotten tired of it yet.  I like the idea that there are two more levels for me to move into, so I'm not worried about advancing too fast and \\"using up\\" the useful knowledge in this book.<br /><br />Each exercise is painstakingly explained in a standard format.  It's very easy to learn the moves and follow along with the pictures.  Then, the end of the book has 3 different workouts that use the exercises in different combinations.  You can use the page number references to refer back to how to do an exercise if you forget.  I've mastered about half of the beginner's workout and it's a terrific exercise every time.  I'm going to buy some handweights to move on to the rest of the beginner workout.<br /><br />Many exercises have a basic and advanced version, so you can do the one you are comfortable with until you are ready to progress to a move that requires more skill at stability on the ball.	2005-06-19
US	52887769	R1O7PQHUQK3CH4	0316284955	613460974	White Oleander (Oprah's Book Club)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	This was so captivating I stayed up all night to finish it	I couldn't put this down once I started it.  Make sure you have plenty of time to devote to reading once you start this.  It took me only two nights because I wanted to see what was going to happen to Astrid at every turn.<br /><br />The book is essentially Astrid's time in the foster care system while her mother is in prison.  Astrid came to life as a feeling child just like anyone else, without a guardian to guide her through life.  Like Astrid, I would find myself thinking, well, this situation has these negatives, but at least it isn't as bad as X, so I might as well suck it up and live with it because the unknown could be worse.  Every foster home is different, and shapes Astrid into the person she becomes.  As many problems as her foster families had, I still loved parts of them for what they imparted on her.<br /><br />Honestly, if someone told me this was a book about a series of foster homes, I probably wouldn't have picked it up.  If that desription turns you off, I implore you to give this at least one shot.  I was hooked pretty quick and I bet you will be, too.<br /><br />Throughout the book, the mother, Ingrid, wrote literary prescriptions of things her daughter should read.  I want to re-read the book to capture all these gems and explore them for myself.	2005-06-17
US	52887769	R24IBB4X1KAU6A	0060505877	314406782	Meeting of the Waters: A Novel	Books	4	1	1	N	N	A decent read, beautiful title	I picked this up based solely on the cover and display in the bookstore, so I didn't know I was reading something in what others seem to describe as the genre of interracial fiction.  I read this as a literary work, and the racial issues (especially the treatment of the Rodney King beating) were eye-opening for me.  The book definitely imparts two very different viewpoints on the same issues from the early 1990's, and since I came from one of those viewpoints, seeing both sides was very interesting.<br /><br />As other readers have commented, I was never lear on why the black woman, Lee, loved Porter.  He seemed insensitive to me.  That part of the novel really nevel gelled for me.<br /><br />The title of this books is a beautiful symbolic reference to the joining of two rivers.  Reading that description of nature made the book worth it.	2005-06-17
US	52887769	R1ZDFSABL55C3J	0316168815	784206304	The Lovely Bones	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Lives up to the hype	I find it fascinating that many reviewers who have lived through the loss of a family member say this book has helped them through their healing.  I thought it was beautiful, but I would never presume that it could speak to everyone's experience, so I am delighted to hear that other people have felt it reached them.<br /><br />There's a mystery running along throughout the book--will Susie's murderer be captured?  I was worried that there was no way for the author to resolve that and satisfy the reader, Susie, and Susie's family, but Sebold certainly managed to deliver.  I also realized as the book progressed that that mystery wasn't necessarily the most important thing in the book.<br /><br />As soon as Susie was in heaven, she saw her parents' flaws.  As a child, I saw my parents as invincible and all-knowing.  It was eye-opening to see a child witnessing how much her parents didn't have it together, especially after their family trauma.<br /><br />Sebold's first person account of her rape and near-death experience, Lucky, is another excellent read.  I never would have thought someone could make that kind of experience readable, but Sebold is very talented, and she draws the reader in to the story of human triumph and love despite setbacks.	2005-06-17
US	52887769	R254560HNMZASH	0836252608	992705465	Newlyweds' Predictionary	Books	5	2	3	N	N	I wish this was advertised more!  Great engagement gift.	I bought this because I wanted to do my own set of predictions cards as a game at my reception (there was no dancing at my reception), and I wanted to use their ideas.  These were absolutely invaluable to greating a good set of predictions cards for my guests.  I'm saving the set I bought to give as a gift to another engaged couple, and it's permanently on my list as a good engagement or bridal shower gift.  These time capsules things are totally fun to open on an anniversary, and it is much more personal than the signatures in a guest book you might get from each guest.  It was fun to harass my guests about their outlandish predictions.<br /><br />Buy this for anyone who is getting married as a fun trinket.  It will definitely be appreciated for years to come.	2005-06-16
US	52887769	R2BF197KSX4K19	1580624561	815478686	The Everything Wedding Checklist: The Gown, the Guests, the Groom, and Everything Else You Shouldn't Forget	Books	5	16	16	N	N	Good foundation for not forgeting anything	This is a short, quick book that stays on track with all the must-haves, must-asks, and must-dos of wedding planning.  You should pair this with something more flowery if you want to get into the gorgeous details of your wedding, but this is a basic essential for those of us who didn't want to forget anything!  I used this to make my own checklists, agendas, plans, schedules, etc. in Microsoft Word and Excel (but you can also use the book as is).<br /><br />Useful highlights:  detailed budgeting, what to register for, hiring vendors (checklists and comparisons), how to run the ceremony, food, transporation, even changing your name post-wedding.<br /><br />I liked getting all of this info in a quick, light-weight, small format.  This should be an essential part of your wedding arsenal.	2005-06-16
US	52887769	R2YCCKP6PWJPWQ	0812018699	715462167	Statistics (Barron's EZ-101 Study Keys)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Invaluable if you get in a bind	This isn't a book to learn statistics from.  This is for someone who needs to brush up for a new class or an exam.  I used it when I had an engineering course that expected a much stronger background in statistics than I had, and I found it to be a very handy reference material.  If you want to start from square one and learn statistics, there are other books for that.<br /><br />Yes, the book sometimes skimps on the derivation and explanation, but it is supposed to be an easy review-type book, not a comprehensive textbook.  I'm glad the authors kept the size down and got to the heart of making the reader functional in stastics.<br /><br />What is key to the usefulness of this book is the worked examples.  Some texts give you theory and expect you to apply it on your own.  The author of this book always provides a worked example, so you know how to go out and apply this material on your own.<br /><br />There are some errors in the answers to the problems, which I hope will be fixed in the next edition.	2005-06-16
US	52887769	R3205GA7C23AHC	0142003514	343739022	Coffee, Tea or Me? The Uninhibited Memoirs of Two Airline Stewardesses	Books	4	11	12	N	N	Go in expecting a fun romp and you won't be disappointed	I picked this up based solely on the reissue cover.  I got into it and started wondering who the heck would talk like this, as a woman?  Then, about 1/2 the way through, I read the intro and realized this was actually penned by a male who had interviewed a lot of stewardesses.  It made me feel better that these weren't real women, but a man trying to sound like a woman.<br /><br />This isn't a literary work, but it is a great beach read.  Don't expect too much, and you'll be thrilled to join these two \\"women\\" on their careers.  I was born well after the 60's, and it is fun to imagine how classy and upscale air travel was back then.  It's certainly a contrast to the budget consciousness of today.<br /><br />It was definitely a page turner, because I wanted to keep having more adventures in the crazy life of 60's stewardesses.  Check this one out and have fun for a few hours.	2005-06-16
US	52887769	R105OKG7KO11ZD	0139077421	441846662	Foundations of Electric Circuits	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Great text for a non-EE major	I used this in a required engineering course on Electrical Engineering for non-EE majors.  This was a great reference and I still keep it on my bookshelf years later.  The example problems were done step-by-step and the techniques laid out were easy to extrapolate into the assigned problems at the end of each chapter.  I dislike it when books skip too many steps in the example problems.<br /><br />Overall, the book is lightweight and a great size without skimping on being comprehensive.  Highly recommended.	2005-06-16
US	52887769	R338A8KV4P4P5E	1570612560	906096986	The Stranger Guide to Seattle: The City's Smartest, Pickiest, Most Obsessive Urban Manual	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Totally off-beat:  what other guidebooks only hope to be	This is a totally unique look at a city, not from the frame of a large international tourguide company, but from point of view of THE BEST local weekly newspaper for Seattle (a shining star amoung weeklies for the whole nation, in fact).  The Stranger paper has the job of pointing you in the direction of happening haunts, good eats, nightlife, shopping, etc, and they've been doing it for years, so who better to write the ultimate guide on the city of Seattle?<br /><br />This is a great book if you are a brief visitor, if you are relocating, or if you have lived in Seattle and want a terrific reference guide for new things to do out and about.<br /><br />I like the way the restaurants are broken up:  ethnic, quick-fix, splurge, cafes, etc.  Bars are done similarly:  rock clubs, all ages, taverns, swanks bars, cool places to be seen, dives, dj & hiphop, etc.  This makes it easy to find your scene and head on out.<br /><br />The only drawback is that this was published in 2001 and no updated version is out yet.  There might be some things that have changed in the interim, but this is still a good baseline for your visit to Seattle.  Pick up this week's copy of The Stranger when you get there!	2005-06-16
US	52887769	R1FGWXAULOCBSM	0912301511	868539254	Newcomer's Handbook for Moving to and Living in Seattle Including Bellevue, Redmond, Everett, and Tacoma	Books	5	30	31	N	N	This is an absolute must have for re-locators!	I usually buy guidebooks for people relocating to a new city--and this book has completely one-upped me by creating a guidebook especially FOR new residents of the Seattle area.  This is invaluable for any new resident (they have them for other major metro areas, too).  It covers much more than I would think of on a standard \\"moving to a new city\\" to-do list, so don't leave home without it.<br /><br />I really liked how it broke down all the communities and neighborhoods.  Getting a feel for areas is nearly impossible on a few nights stay to a new area, so hearing it from an expert gives me a high comfort level with a decision to move to a certain area.  Beyond that, this book covers a lot of the how-tos for apartment searching, leasing, house buying, etc.  It also has good tips on hooking up all your new services and what to ask for when you do so.<br /><br />I can't even list all the useful things in here.  Some samples:  where to go running, where the gay & lesbian scene is, how to use public transportation, good bookstores, standard attractions like museums, earthquakes, air pollution, and an AWESOME yearly calendar of annual events in Seattle.<br /><br />Don't move without this book!	2005-06-16
US	52887769	R72RT7YLVGGGL	1889392138	287513911	Bridal Bargains: Secrets to Throwing a Fantastic Wedding on a Realistic Budget	Books	5	23	24	N	N	I give this as a gift to every engaged couple!	When I started reading this book, I had to get out post-its to mark all the fantastic information I was getting from each page.  The stuff on the bridal boutique industry, how it works, why you pay what you pay, what David's Bridal is really like, how to maximize your dollar, etc. is worth it alone.  This was the first really good introduction I got to the industry, and it made me understand a lot of why things work like they do.<br /><br />I basically marked every other page because this book had so much useful info.  This is invaluable.  Other bargain books might say, \\"oh, hire a photo student to do your pics and have your friend do arrangements.\\"  Well, both of those courses of action are RIPE for disappointment, hard feelings, etc.  This is the FIRST bridal book I have seen that seriously talks about doing it right, doing it well, and doing it for a reasonable cost.<br /><br />One great tip I got was that \\"wedding\\" packages often cost more, so price your food as a \\"party\\" or \\"reunion\\" to see if the price is lower than what vendors what to scam a princess's Daddy out of paying.<br /><br />The authors also have a great website where more links and information are available.<br /><br />Do not try to plan your wedding without this book!	2005-06-16
US	52887769	R3VZMB2VWR5V7J	0070492670	273216961	Italiano in Diretta: An Introductory Course (Student Edition) (2nd Edition)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Great book for into course in Italian	This is a great book for an intro class in Italian.  It is not a stand-alone text, but should be used in a frequently-meeting class setting to progess through the fundamentals of Italian.  The text is well laid out with boxes, headings, tables, examples, etc., to help the student understand the different facets of the Italian language.  The problems were straightforward and followed directly from the lesson text.	2005-06-16
US	52887769	R22N39XC3NRN9O	0470235985	515273353	Performance and Stability of Aircraft	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Good book, needs better editing	I agree with the other reviewers that this book is riddled with errors.  That makes it difficult to use on your own.  In a classroom setting, however, it is easy to come to agreement on which parts of the posted solutions to problems are errors.  Fortunately, my professor worked out a lot of the problems ahead of time and warned us of the errors.<br /><br />I definitely recommend covering this with durable plastic when you buy it.  I did, and my copy has lasted me years.  Many of my classmates had their copies fall apart in just one semester due to the quality of the paperback binding.  It doesn't stand up to wear and tear and carrying around campus.<br /><br />Also, be forewarned that this is a British text, so it will differ from other Aero texts in standard terminology and notation.  It's fairly straightforward to correlate, but there are some differences in the terms used.<br /><br />Overall, the derviations are clear and the diagrams are excellent.  Used with a knowledgable professor, this is a good resource.	2005-06-16
US	52887769	RCYB97JK3V6ZL	0883910551	745031022	Fell's Budget Weddings	Books	3	1	2	N	N	Just okay	This book had a lot of common sense information on saving money, but nothing really earth-shattering.  You take a risk hiring amatuer photographers or flower arrangers, and this book doesn't really seem to acknowledge that, for example.  A lot of these tips, like having a mid-afternoon instead of a dinner reception, or not having an open bar are really common sense and make it evident to everyone that you want to have a budget wedding.<br /><br />To really learn about a budget wedding (or just a normal wedding where you don't get taken advantage of by vendors), Denise Fields's Bridal Bargains is invaluable.  I recommend that book instead.  It will show you how to have a wedding for a reasonable price that doesn't appear to cut corners at all.	2005-06-16
US	52887769	R23N2JOCFV093N	0762735864	600742393	Mobil Travel Guide Northern Great Lakes, 2005: Michigan, Minnesota, and Wisconsin (Forbes Travel Guide: Northern Great Lakes)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Great on the lodging side, lacking in attractions	This is a terrific guide if you are driving through the area and need hotel accomodations throughout the Great Lakes.  It has all the basic functional details you need in comparing hotel amenities, prices, and offerings.  If you are a member of AAA, of course, you could just use their guidebook for this information.<br /><br />If you want a good book about what to do in the Twin Cities, what the different neighborhoods are like, the history of the area, the local culture, good shopping ideas, etc. go for another guide.  This would be a good guide to pair with something that has more on the attractions/dining/out and about side of traveling.	2005-06-15
US	52887769	ROSFQ9J3GWJ7O	0679004378	267905817	Compass American Guides: Minnesota, 2nd Edition (Full-color Travel Guide)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Good at what it sets out to do	I got this book because it was one of the few available for the MN area.  I was going to the Twin Cities, and I found the section on that area decidedly lacking in information.  It had far less information than a standard AAA guidebook.  The tradeoff is the rich history and the beautiful photography, which are what this book is touted for.  I usually prefer more practical information such as prices, hours, time to allow for an attraction, guides to good shopping and dining areas, etc., and this book did not deliver on those fronts.  If you want an in-depth and beautifully done history, though, this book is a good choice.<br /><br />If you are a stranger to the area, you definitely have to pair this with a more practical guidebook (like AAA).  I'm still looking for a good one for the Twin Cities area.	2005-06-15
US	52887769	R3FRJ0INEFIF44	1400043646	793044180	Paradise	Books	2	11	15	N	N	Couldn't get through the book after three sittings	I've enjoyed some of the books in the \\"Customers who also bought this book\\" list, so I picked this one up.  The back of the book touts the amazing prose and supreme literary talents of the author.  I read about 1/3 of it and I couldn't appreciate any of this terrific prose because the action seemed to be going absolutely nowhere at all.  I had a series of disjoined snapshots of an alcoholic's life, all of which were just sad and confusing as a whole.  I couldn't see where this was all going, and I wasn't compelled to keep turning the pages.<br /><br />This book may be technically amazing, and you could admire each sentence on a stand-alone basis, but fantastic literary devices do not a good story make.  There wasn't enough cohesive action for me to want to stick with Hannah and her story.  I'm sorry I don't have more information to offer, but no one else has reviewed this book yet, so I wanted to get some comments out there.<br /><br />As for the \\"funny\\" parts, I didn't find any of those in the 180 pages I read.	2005-06-15
US	52887769	R1G0O3SH4575VT	0375703861	363806782	White Teeth: A Novel	Books	4	3	5	N	N	Terrific characters and use of language	Smith's use of language was amazing.  I loved every descriptive passage of this book.  I need to re-read it with a notepad to capture the new vocabulary words that I just gleaned from context on my first read-through.<br /><br />The characters in this book are terrific.  I was infuriated with Ahmad for his self-righteous religious-ness.  He was so real to me that I couldn't stop thinking about him.  Joyce Chalfen was the over-achieving new millenium mom, and every scene featuring her was a terrifyingly humorous portrait of the damage a driven woman can do in pursuit of enlightened motherhood.  Hortense Bowden was another rich character, full of her own set of religious beliefs that she followed in spite of common sense.  These characters were diverse in their lifestyles and opinions, and all of them blindly followed a personal code that led them to do damage to others in the name of their personal beliefs.	2005-05-16
US	52887769	R1JGIUGB8FI1R2	0061097640	406344440	I Know This Much Is True (Oprah's Book Club)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	How do I even describe this book?	Five stars is a disservice to this amazing book.  I read it after I liked She's Come Undone, and even though Undone is a terrific book, Lamb actually manages to put it to shame with I Know this Much is True.  This book is hard to recommend to people, because people are easily put off by its length, but trust me, every inch of paper is put to good use.  I got so absorbed in this story that I can't imagine it being any other length.  Heck, I could keep reading about these characters without ever tiring of them.<br /><br />Lamb dropped repeated bombshells on his characters, shaking up their lives and compelling me to keep reading more to find out how the issues were going to be resolved.  I don't want to try to enumerate any of them here--I implore you to just go out and read this amazing book!<br /><br />Lamb is a masterful storyteller because he had the reader mirroring Domineck's feelings of irritation and resentment toward his stepfather Ray, but throughout the course of the book, Lamb forced both the reader and Domenick to change their perspective.  This happened over and over with all the characters.  I grew with the main character and his perception of the world.<br /><br />I liked the history that was brought into the plot--the draft, the Gulf War, Rodney King, and the fall of the Soviet Union, to name a few.  These major news events were well integrated into the plot, and I liked how they shaped the main characters.<br /><br />I'm eagerly awaiting more from this author. I'm glad he's not rapidly churning out trash just to sell books on his reputation, though.	2005-05-16
US	52887769	R1FZP5QYJO3DTS	0060082194	757728138	Rum Punch	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Another solid Leonard and a great movie companion	Get Shorty and Jackie Brown are two of my favorite movies, and after the success I had with the book version of Get Shorty, I had to check out Jackie Brown's book, Rum Punch.  In both cases, my appreciation of the book was greatly enhanced by my ability to picture the outstanding actors in the movies.  It almost seems like Leonard wrote the book with the actors in mind, because the descriptions in the book so closely match the visual on the screen.  The exception, of course, is Jackie Brown, who was a blond in the book and a black woman in the film, but similar in almost every other way in both the book and the movie.<br /><br />The plot has tons of twists and turns and double crosses, but I found I was able to follow it fairly well.  I recommend this as a companion to the movie.  Fans of the movie should definitely check out the book, and vice versa.	2005-05-16
US	52887769	R3SGAOQJ1SBYCH	0767914767	167500313	The Devil Wears Prada a Novel	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Fun escape into a devilish world	If you aren't expecting award-winning fiction, just a fun romp and expose of the fashion world, then this book will deliver.  I didn't go in with very high expectations.  I knew this would be in the style of the Nanny Diaries, but in the end, I found it to be a much better book, because the main character was so much better developed.  I got so caught up in the main character and my identification with her, in fact, that it took the other characters in the book to point out how poor her attitude at work was.  I was going right along with it until other characters called her to task for her disdain for everyone in the fashion world.<br /><br />Weisberger's writing style was conflicted.  She could go for pages using no other adjective besides \\"cool,\\" and then she would throw in a vocabulary word like obsequious in a decidedly un-elegant sentence.  She seemed to be forcing her Cornell education not to go to waste, but the style wasn't consistent at all.<br /><br />For a fun look at the fashion industry and devilish bosses, as well as devilish employees who dish about their careers to the whole world, pick this up.  Don't expect a literary masterpiece.	2005-05-16
US	52887769	R1R7SWGVLW8Q35	0345389964	946634305	A Son of the Circus	Books	5	18	18	N	N	Totally new setting for Irving; loved it!	Irving is absolutely one of my favorite authors, and if you can believe it, this actually the first one of his that I read, and it got me hooked to go out and read the better known Garp and Owen Meany books.  Having read all of Irving's novels, I get a little tired of the repeated elements of boy's boarding schools in New Hampshire, wrestling coaches, life in Vienna, prostitutes, and so on.  This book completely breaks out of the Irving mold for me (even though there were some formative years in Austria and the characters play squash, as in other books).  It's unlike any of this other books, and I loved exploring the completely new territory in India.  Transsexuals?  Bollywood cinema?  Circus dwarves?  Sideshow freaks?  Serial murder?  Twins?  Confused priests?  Hippies?  They're all here and they all come together in this beautiful narrative.<br /><br />I highly recommend this to all Irving fans as one of the under-appreciated books that often falls below the radar.  I loved getting lost in this fantastic world of intrigue in India, and I was sad to have this beautiful book come to an end.	2005-05-16
US	52887769	R3AJR1TTTKK86A	0375724834	352044771	Motherless Brooklyn	Books	4	5	9	N	N	I admire the book, but I didn't enjoy it	I read this critically acclaimed novel for a book club, and I was less than impressed.  I don't plan to read other Lethem novels after reading this.  I seem to be in the minority among Amazon.com reviewers, however.<br /><br />The whole book takes place in a remarkably short time--two days, with flashbacks interspersed.  The narrator runs into a lot of dead ends and puzzling clues in his search for his mentor's killer.  I found this frustrating, but then I had to stop to remember that this makes the book more true to life than some of the snazzier mass market detective stories.  Real life crime solving is tedious and full of dead ends.<br /><br />The real genius in Lionel's detective work lies in his Tourette's syndrome.  People don't see him as a threat and are therefore less guarded with their words.<br /><br />I found the book tough to read, but then again, it is probably tough to live with Tourette's, too.  Read this for something true-to-life and gritty, and unlike anything else on the bookshelf today.  I admire the book for stepping out of the norm, but it is not the kind of journey I usually take with my reading.	2005-05-16
US	52887769	R160NQSD67KR31	080411109X	207990769	The Hundred Secret Senses	Books	5	96	98	N	N	Outstanding book that I can't stop recommending	I put off other things on my weekend to finish this book because I was so involved in it, and I've been recommending it to other readers since finishing it.  This book was more beautiful to me than The Joy Luck Club, but it took me a little longer to get into the book and realize how amazing it was.<br /><br />The plot is summarized well on Amazon.  While reading, I had a little trouble getting into Kwan's Miss Banner previous-lifetime stories.  I, like Olivia, thought Kwan was a kooky dreamer.  Of course, her stories have a deeper meaning, and I urge you to stick with them so see Tan's beautiful resolution of the relationship between Olivia and Kwan.<br /><br />In the beginning of the book, I thought Olivia knew herself the best, and that Kwan was just an overly-emotional meddler.  As the book progressed, Tan convined me of the depth of Kawn's character, and my feelings about everyone in the novel changed.  Tan is a masterful storyteller for taking me in this journey of discovery.<br /><br />This history of China is well-treated in this novel, and I wanted to learn more about the Taiping Rebellion when I finished.  Don't be put off if you don't like historical fiction, though, because I'm not usually a fan, but I found myself entirely wrapped up in this.	2005-05-16
US	52887769	R46C5EFEQXGRE	0671021001	785191741	She's Come Undone (Oprah's Book Club)	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Solid hit by Lamb; I'm waiting for more from this author	This book is well-deserving of all the critical acclaim it has received.  Reading the back of my paperback copy, I saw the main character, Delores, compared to Garp from The World According to Garp.  I recoiled a bit at the comparison to such a literary masterpiece.  Delores as an adolescent was nowhere near as lovable for all her shortcomings as Garp was.  In the end, I think Delores stands as a literary character in her own right, but I can see where the comparison came from, because both Delores and Garp surrounded themselves with a fantastic cast of characters who brought beauty and richness to the world in their own unique way.<br /><br />I enjoyed watching Delores develop and grow as a person, and I moved from finding her selfish and intolerable to loving her for all her personality traits.<br /><br />Once you've finished this, pick up Lamb's I Know This Much is True.  I didn't think anything could top She's Come Undone, but Lamb's next book is even more amazing.  I'm eagerly awaiting more from this author.  I'm glad he's not rapidly churning out trash just to sell books on his reputation, though.	2005-05-16
US	52887769	R3EMUJ0FPM9Z6S	0312291639	244886090	The Nanny Diaries: A Novel	Books	3	1	2	N	N	Fun escape, easy to read	This isn't award-winning fiction, but as long as you going in expecting nothing more than a fun ride with some shocking moments, you'll be satisfied with the book.<br /><br />My main complaint with the novel was that it was too general, with characters having names like \\"Nanny\\" and \\"Mrs. X.\\"  The authors tried to conglomerate almost too many experiences into generic characters.  This book was hyped well, and while it was fun to have my jaw drop at the exploits of the rich and famous, and their poor treatment of their children and nanny, this isn't a book to read for the quality of the writing or the character development.  Nanny's boyfriend was entirely 1-dimensional.  I also have no idea how the main character could have done well in school.  Her schedule is completely unrealistic.	2005-05-15
US	52887769	R28QRESVK2OWX7	0440221471	692576280	The Runaway Jury	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Yes, a civil trial is as interesting as criminal intrigue	When a friend loaned me this book, I read the plot summary and wondered how a civil trial could possibly be as good as a typical Grisham plot of criminal behaviors.  Well, I was hooked pretty quickly.  Grisham's talent as a storyteller is evident, because I was able to keep up with all the different backgrounds and opinions of the jury members with no effort at all.  I was worried that I'd not be able to keep track of the jury members, but Grisham made them each a unique being, and their manipulation at the hands of the jury-tamperers was fascinating to watch.<br /><br />When I read this book back in 2003, I commented that I never thought it could be made into a movie, because how could someone bring all these characters to life as well as they were done on the page?  It has been made into a movie now, so I suppose the next step is for me to watch that.	2005-05-15
US	52887769	R14FS4303ZUXR6	034536743X	234748596	The 158-Pound Marriage	Books	4	18	20	N	N	Only for the true Irving fans	After falling in love with Irving's more well known works, I went back to read his earlier novels.  This is a decent read, but clearly less well developed that something like The World According to Garp, or A Prayer for Owen Meany.  I wouldn't recommend it as your first Irving book.<br /><br />We have some of the same plot elements that are seen again and again in Irving's works--life in Vienna, wife-swapping, wrestling, and prostitutes in Europe.  The subject of Vienna is given a much more beautiful treatment in The Hotel New Hampshire, in my opinion.<br /><br />Children are an afterthought in this novel.  They were written in only when convienent and completely ignored when more adult matters were at hand.<br /><br />The book is darkly tragic, more dark than other Irving novels.  I didn't find the beauty of being human as a relief from the tragic undertones.  Enjoy this if you are desperate for more Irving, but try some of his later works if you want a better read.	2005-05-15
US	52887769	R2VINY5K7QZAHY	006109868X	767963707	Pigs in Heaven	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Terrific read; a must-have for Kingsolver fans	I read this after loving The Poisonwood Bible and Prodigal Summer.  Only after finishing it did I learn it was a sequel to The Bean Trees.  I enjoyed it as a stand-alone work, so I'm interested to go and get the backstory.  They certainly don't need to be read in sequence to be meaningful, though.<br /><br />Kingsolver amazes me with her diverse settings and topics.  The first two novels I read were set in Africa and Appalachia, respectively.  Here is yet another setting--the southwest, and yet another culture--Native American.  She doesn't repeat themes or settings as an author, and I admire her for that.<br /><br />The story is told so well that I mimicked all the emotions of the main character, Taylor.  She and I both came to trust one character in the story, and when she betrayed Turtle and Taylor, my heart was ripped right out along with Taylor's.<br /><br />This book has cemented Kingsolver as one of my favorite authors, and I look forward to exploring more of her works.	2005-05-15
US	52887769	R3MD1F8BFSYRNO	0440236673	376574359	The Brethren	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Standard Grisham legal/political thriller	This is your standard Grisham thriller about the law and politics, yet he doesn't repeat any of his old plot elements.  This is a fresh plot by some jailed ex-judges to blackmail closeted gay men.  It's a neat storyline, with all the legal twists and turns we've come to expect from Grisham.<br /><br />I thought that the power and corruption of the CIA were a little over-exaggerted in the book, and the CIA's scheme seemed to be a little roundabout, but it all made for compelling reading, so I tried not to dwell on any implausibility too much.<br /><br />If you want to have your beliefs challenged and read a masterful plot, go read The Runaway Jury or The Chamber.  For a quick escape in a nice paperback format, The Brethren is recommended.	2005-05-15
US	52887769	R3KMR69RPR6SA	006008216X	191746584	Get Shorty	Books	5	13	13	N	N	Another terrific Leonard, complement to the movie	I loved the movie Get Shorty, as well as the other Leonard books that have been turned into movies (Rum Punch, Out of Sight), so I had to try out this book.  It's a great read and much of the snappy dialoge from the movie is taken right from the book's narrative.  The dialoge works great both on screen and in the novel.<br /><br />I appreciated the subtle differences in the plot line between the movie and the book, and the differences were enough to keep me interested in the book despite knowing much of the movie by heart.  Leonard is a master at writing dialoge.  He uses grammar that precisely captures the way people speak, and each character has a unique way of talking that is personally identifiable.<br /><br />The character descriptions were so similar to the movie that I had to wonder if Leonard wrote the novel with certain actors in mind!<br /><br />I recommend this as a companion to the movie.  They can be enjoyed together as the same story via two different mediums, each with its own richness.	2005-05-15
US	52887769	R7ITUABVLOHSF	0553348981	919939441	Jitterbug Perfume	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Intertwined narratives spanning a thousand years	While I loved this book when I was reading it, after I put it down, I would often pick up something else instead.  I'm not sure why that was.  As a whole, the story is a masterpiece of intertwined lives which all come together in the end.<br /><br />Personally, I found Kudra and Alobar's quest for immortality the most riveting.  They were grounded.  I found the other character's motives less pure, and their stories less gripping.<br /><br />Especially toward the end, Robbins seemed to veer off with long metaphysical quasi-scientific naraatives through one of the main characters.  I found these hard to follow, and they detracted from the story for me.  I was disappointed that the book ended with one of these narratives instead of with all the characters.<br /><br />I'll never think about beets the same way again!  They always bring a smile to my face now.	2005-05-15
US	52887769	R2TR6DXEEV0YYP	0060959037	822422067	Prodigal Summer: A Novel	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Be prepared to learn about biology and life in the mountains	Kingsolver is one author whose books can be devoured in rapid succession--you aren't going to get bored with repeated plot elements or the same setting over and over again.  She delivers a terrific interwoven novel of three parallel stories with the shared theme of the importance of preserving predators to maintain ecosytems from bug-size to mammal-size.  I loved this for the storyline and for the biological science I picked up during the reading.  She delivers a masterful ending in which leaves the reader at peace with the way the characters from the three different storylines came together.  Be prepared to keep turning the pages when you pick this novel up.	2005-05-12
US	52887769	R35C8Z1ABFDT2R	0316776963	491689172	Me Talk Pretty One Day	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Don't judge a book by its cover!	This lay around my house in college and I assumed, from the cover and the title, that it was some textbook for my roommate's special education coursework.  I had no interest in it as a result.  How wrong I was!  I read the first chapter and it was so hilarious that I stole the book from her to finish in as few sittings as possible.<br /><br />Sedaris has a unique talent for taking the mundane, the average, even the tragic and twisting it up in his special way to make the reader laugh out loud.  I've given this book as a gift to many people, and they all have loved it and looked into Sedaris's other works.	2005-05-12
US	52887769	R2ZB8GM4X11RNO	0671727583	67221443	Smart Women	Books	2	8	10	N	N	Pick up another Blume with better women in it	I am a huge Judy Blume fan, especially of Summer Sisters.  This work doesn't compare to what Blume is capable of.  I found myself just finishing it because I had already invested time in the beginning.  I didn't connect with any of the characters, and I found myself feeling as if I had walked in at the end of the story because no time was spent developing the characters.  The subject of love was very 2-dimensional in this book...this is no Wifey or Forever.  Pick up something else by Blume instead of this.	2005-05-12
US	52887769	R2PMJMEIEW9H2W	0316779237	383741816	Holidays on Ice: Stories	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Buy this and re-read it every holiday season!	Brilliant!  Disturbing!  Deliciously short and appropriate for holiday evening reading.  Tuck this one in your travel bag when you go home for the holidays to use as an escape or distraction.  I don't want to give too much away, but the piece on working as an elf at Santaland should be familiar to public radio listeners, and it is hilarious.  The visciously biting review of an elementary school Christmas pageant, \\"Front Row Center with Thaddeus Bristol\\" is another terrific read.<br /><br />This is a book to own and open up every holiday season to read the stories over again.  Pass it around the house.  It's a very quick read.	2005-05-12
US	52887769	R2XJZ7PHTG7U04	0385491069	153232466	The Edible Woman	Books	3	9	9	N	N	Not sure this stands the test of time	I'm a generation (or two?) removed from this book (a single woman having a career in the late 1960's), so I had some trouble relating to the main character's struggles.  At times, I wasn't sure if Atwood was telling a matter-of-fact tale or trying to make a feminist point.  Marian loses her ability to eat as she faces a decision about whether to stay with a dependable man or date the quirky anti-establishment freethinker she met at random.  The female characters all seemed weak and lacking motivation or direction, so I'm definitely missing something if this is supposed to be fun and ironic.  I think this can be a tough novel for people so far removed from the late 1960's to read and understand.  I wish I was able to relate, because I admire Atwood as an author, but I just couldn't.  Definitely try some of her other work, like The Robber Bride or The Handmaid's Tale, if you are interested in experiencing the more accessible material.	2005-05-12
US	52887769	R3LWZLBJKY04ZB	0440220602	233513923	The Chamber	Books	4	40	40	N	N	This will raise questions about right and wrong	At first, I thought the title referred to a judge's chambers, but this is actually a book about the gas chamber.  It took me a litttle while, but after the halfway point I was really connected with the characters and involved with the book.  Grisham manages to make the reader just as torn as the other characters about whether Sam deserves to/should die in the gas chamber for his crimes.  I got totally immersed in the book, and spent a lot of time contemplating the death penalty in general.  This is a masterful story and a good book for anyone who wants to look at the grey areas of the law and what is right and wrong.	2005-05-12
US	52887769	RFX702UFY65DK	0385491034	893718356	The Robber Bride	Books	5	2	2	N	N	This turned me into an Atwood fan	This was my first introduction to Margaret Atwood and I've become a huge fan since reading this and her other works.  The book starts with all the main characters feeling itense fear/envy/spite for a woman named Zenia.  I found myself wondering how the author could possibly fill in the backstory to explain these vituperous emotions.  Did Atwood deliver?  Yes, she certainly did.  I felt the same range of emotions for Zenia as I learned more about her in the book.<br /><br />All the women in this novel are survivors, they are the strong responsible ones in their relationships.  The men are weak, driven by their lust and blinded by the lies of women.  The final lesson of the novel is about the triumph of women, and it's well worth the journey to arrive there.  This book comes highly recommended.	2005-05-12
US	52887769	R3T64J9Q0J5J8Z	0590410628	765846748	One Hundred and One Elephant Jokes	Books	5	3	4	N	N	I searched high and low for this book!	My parents had this book, and I remember loving it when I was a kid.  I couldn't for the life of me remember the title, so I searched for a while before buying this one off Amazon, hoping that it was the right one.  This is ripped off on tons of Internet websites...it's the original source of the on-going Tarzan and Jane elephant jokes.  The jokes contained in here aren't meant to be standalone--the book is intended to be read cover to cover (it's short) because the one-linder jokes build on one another.<br /><br />This book is so cheap that you should take a chance and go out and buy it.  Enjoy!	2005-05-11
US	52887769	R1DC7D4I4YJR7F	068815333X	240949428	Prayers for Rain	Books	4	37	40	N	N	Far better than your average genre fiction!	I got hooked on Lehane after Mystic River, and his thriller Shutter Island was absolutely gripping and completely mind-twisting. I had to stay up late one night to finish that, and I couldn't sleep afterwards, so I had to read a Dave Barry book to take my mind off it! I should have learned my lesson, because as soon as I got into Prayers for Rain, I couldn't get the creepiness and mystery out of my head, and I once again had to stay up late to finish the entire book.<br /><br />I'm a snob who usually avoids genre fiction, and I have a sneaking suspicion this might be found in the mystery/crime genre section, but Lehane is really a league above the other mytery writers I have read. Lehane is a masterful storyteller and has a rock solid plot here. He's very talented with the psychological aspects of crime (very much so in Shutter Island...I fear my review is becoming a big ad for that book!), and I wished he had further developed some of the psychological aspects in this book.<br /><br />The lesson I've learned about Lehane is that he is such a good and creepy storyteller than I'm no longer reading any of his books in bed late at night. They are only to be digested when I am lying on the beach.  If you enjoy thrillers, definitely get this book, and be prepared to be blown away by a well-crafted plot.	2005-05-11
US	52887769	RM44UOQ0WC00L	0848718526	446532356	Cooking Light 5 Ingredient 15 Minute Cookbook	Books	3	7	7	N	N	Terrific item in a great layout	My roommate had this book, and when I moved out, I had to buy my own copy to replace hers that I had been borrowing.  This is a great idea:  quick recipes with a few ingredients, laid out on the page with a full color picture and the recipe on the opposing page.  The amount of time spent on layout design makes this cookbook extremely readable and accessible.<br /><br />These recipes are quick and easy, and after you make them once, you'll have them memorized and they'll become staples of your after-work dinner repetoire.  These aren't complicated recipes you are going to have to prop up in a bookstand each time you want to make them.  You'll quickly be making these on your own and modifying them to the ingedients you have available.<br /><br />My one complaint about this book is the price.  Maybe that's what you have to pay for all the gorgeous full color illustrations!  If it were cheaper, I would have given it as a gift to more friends.  The price is a bit prohibitive, so maybe picking up a used copy is a good idea.  I wouldn't trade the illustrations for anything--you can hand this book to your kids or partner and ask them to leaf through it until they find something that looks good to them.  I love browsing for recipes that way.	2005-05-11
US	52887769	R3DSAS66FJH04A	0375826211	357658542	The Burn Journals	Books	5	31	35	N	N	Entirely readable--don't be scared off by the subject matter	This is the true story of a 14-year old who set himself on fire in his household bathroom.  It came very highly recommended from my mom, a middle school teacher/reviewer of YA books.  I will admit that I let it sit for a while because I wasn't sure I could stomach the subject matter.  There was no need for my apprehension--the book is completely readable.  Brent, the narrator, is straightforward and just as confused about himself as everyone else in the world is.  He's refreshingly normal in pretty much every way, except for that fateful day with the gasoline in the shower.  I think that's the true strength of the book--it is important to remember that normal middle school students are struggling with these kinds of issues and not sure where they fit into their family and the world.<br /><br />The story is told amazingly well.  Runyon does no posturing; he lays everything out just like it happened, with every stupid and uncool thing he said, and all the times he didn't understand himself and the world.  He is still very much a 14-year old boy during his year of recovery, trying to figure out how to talk and interact with girls.  I think if I wrote my autobiography, I'd be tempted to make myself look cooler than I am.  For Runyon, it is his straightforwardness that helps the reader so easily identify with him.	2005-05-11
US	52887769	RZYSNA76XL45G	1572242949	254511617	Responsible Drinking: A Moderation Management Approach for Problem Drinkers	Books	4	97	99	N	N	Worth the time to do these exercises	I found Moderation Management through their website (moderation.org), which is where I learned about this book.  I highly reccomend MM for anyone who is a little concerned about their drinking, but doesn't think they need to go to AA.  This book was eye-opening for me.  If you are concerned, why not give MM a shot and see if doing 30 days of abstinence (the first step of MM) does anything for you?  It might teach you how to moderate your drinking, it might teach you that you need to abstain forever in an abstinence-based program like AA, or it might just open your eyes and make you re-evaluate alcohol's place in your life.<br /><br />The book has easy-to-digest anecdotes and exercises.  I left my copy in the living room and did a chapter at a time over a week.  I would fill in the exercises, but often, reading this book would spurn more thoughts and reflections about my life that I would record in a blank journal.  This was a great companion for the 30-days of trial abstinence that Moderation Management advocates.  It really made me think critically about my life.  The experience has been excellent for me and I encourage others who are questioning to try it for themselves.	2005-05-11
US	52887769	RMG3TTNGR7BEV	068486441X	748117905	Eating The Cheshire Cat: A Novel	Books	3	3	4	N	N	Quick read told in a digestible format	I tried very hard to like this book, because it came highly recommended, but it just didn't do it for me. I'm not exactly sure what \\"Southern fiction\\" is supposed to be, but I am seeing that label all over everything these days, and it was on this book.<br /><br />The way the story was told was well done--chapters alternated between the points of view of three different girls, from very different backgrounds, during their high school and college years. It isn't a long book; lots of time passed between chapters. That's good, too, because Ellis is a mediocre writer at best, so I couldn't handle an Owen Meany-length book from her. This book couldn't decide if it was a satire or it was serious--it was not a delicious satirical romp through self-centered characters, nor was it believable enough to be a real-life kind of novel.<br /><br />The Nicole character never really came to life for me. She wasn't believable. The most ridiculous self-centered character, Sarina, was more true to life, and her character was better developed. The third girl seemed to be the nice, respectable, hard-working one the reader was supposed to identify with, but near the end of the book, she did things that seemed way out of character for me, so I had trouble identifying with her.<br /><br />I think my review is coming out much more negative than I intended. I didn't hate this book, I just failed to jump on the \\"so hilarious, wickedly funny, delightful\\" bandwagon.	2005-05-11
US	52887769	RXXJUTERP8XHX	0689711735	170127521	Alexander and the Terrible, Horrible, No Good, Very Bad Day	Books	5	154	165	N	N	People of all ages can relate!	I first had this book read to me as a child, and it stuck with me throughout life.  I would always remember that anyone can have a terrible, horrible, no good, very bad day (even in Australia).  In fact, sometimes I still tell people that I am having a terrible, horrible, no good, very bad day, and it someone flickers with recognition, then all is well in the world!<br /><br />Contrary to what some reviewers say, this is not a depressing book.  It's one to keep on the shelf and re-read any day things aren't going right.  It has a wonderful message and is beautifully illustrated.<br /><br />This is a timeless classic.  Adults and children will enjoy the experience.	2005-05-11
US	52887769	R1KVFY5WW4EHEI	0060929596	316982155	As Nature Made Him: The Boy Who Was Raised as a Girl	Books	5	13	14	N	N	Exhaustively researched into a readable narrative	I was hooked by the book's description:  \\"Following a botched circumcision, a family is convinced to raise their infant son, Bruce, as a girl. They rename the child Brenda and spend the next 14 years trying to transform him into a her.\\"  That alone was enough to get me interested.  The book was heartbreakingly well researched and documented.  Colapinto did extensive research, presenting exerpts and interpretations of every piece of literature in the intersex field debate from the 50's through the 70's while still providing a readable narrative that I could digest from my couch.  I learned so much about science, and about scientific debate and how fields of study work when they are in their infancy, as well as what it is like to be a human subject for a scientific researcher.  I think today, the idea of \\"just deciding\\" a boy could be raised as a girl with no ramifications is astounding, but the chief researcher in this case was able to convince academics all over the world that he was having success with Bruce/Brenda, when the experiment was really a dismal failure.<br /><br />The real heartbreak, of course, is that not only was a scientist forcing an experiment that had every sign it was failing, it was occuring at the expense of one man's life.  The book painstakingly details the history of David's life, using transcripts, videotapes, interviews, and medical records.  It all comes together in the end when David makes extremely insightful first person narrative comments in an interview with the author.<br /><br />I highly recommend this book!	2005-05-11
US	52887769	R2NOT8FAHI7RYT	0452270421	653217787	Betting Thoroughbreds: A Professional's Guide for the Horseplayer: Second Revised Edition (Reference)	Books	4	9	12	N	N	Buy this if you are already skilled and want an edge	I bought this book as a novice thoroughbred better, and no one in my casual group of horserace friends has been able to glean much useful information from it.  I should have been warned--the title clearly states that it is for professionals.  While this book didn't help me personally, it is probably an excellent resource for someone already in the field looking for the next step in their edge over the house.<br /><br />I'm posting this review as a caution to other people who might be looking for a good introduction to horse racing.  This isn't it.  Leave this one for the professionals.	2005-05-11
US	52887769	R1U3OSVS38HIER	0679763309	251642252	An Unquiet Mind: A Memoir of Moods and Madness	Books	5	9	11	N	N	Managing the illness in a professional and personal life	Jamison is a clinician who lives with and studies manic depression (bipolar disorder).  She has the unique stance of a scientific background combined with personal experiences and stuggles.  Manic depression is hard on sufferers and on their families.  Jamison herself describes it best on p. 174, \\"It is not an illness that lends itself to easy sympathy.  Once a restless or frayed mood has turned to anger, or violence, or psychosis, Richard, like most, finds it very difficult to see it as an illness, rather than as being willful, angry, irrational, or simply tiresome.  What I experience as beyond my control can instead seem to him deliberate and frightening.  It is, at these times, impossible for me to convey my desperation and pain; it is hard still afterwards, to recover from the damaging acts and dreadful words.\\"<br /><br />Jamison eloquently articulates the difficulty of deciding whether to disclose her illness to her colleagues.  Doctors are stigmatized or removed from practice for admissions of illnesses, so many of them turn to drugs or alcohol on their own as a form of self-mediciation.  Jamison's story is an excellent example of managing the illness within a personal and professional life so that the proper checks and balances are in place, and she can be a productive member of society.<br /><br />This is a quick read and has both narrative and limited scientific information.  It's not heavy-handed or textbook like at all.  I recommend it to anyone trying to learn more about psychiatric disorders or just looking to read good memoir/non-fiction type books.	2005-05-11
US	52887769	R10FVLVVP8JC9X	0740741365	848803118	Bucky Katt's Big Book of Fun: A Get Fuzzy Treasury	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Brilliant comic; love the treasury!	I owned the original comic collections, but we still wanted the treasury for the color comics.  Get Fuzzy is the only thing that can come close to filling the void left by Calvin and Hobbes.  I live in a household of just two people, but both of us have elements of Bucky Katt and Satchel in us, and the relationship Rob Wilco has with is cat and dog roommates applies not only to people with pets, but to any family unit.<br /><br />I keep this by the bedside to read whenever I have a free moment between other novels.  It makes a great gift...I've given it to people who have never heard of Get Fuzzy who were instantly converted.  Try it out on any Calvin and Hobbes fan.	2005-05-11
US	52887769	R13ZPT1DS5PU64	068808074X	474003550	Good Housekeeping Illustrated Cookbook	Books	4	8	8	N	N	Terrific illustrations and explanations	This is a great starter cookbook.  I bought it because it was illustrated, and the full color pictures have come in handy many a time.  When I'm reading a recipe (from this book or not), if it references a type of knife or pan or utensil I'm not familiar with, I grab this book and look it up in the pictures in the front.  The pictures explaining all the different utensils, spices, techniques are absolutely indispensable.<br /><br />This has a wide variety of recipes, and with the large color photo section, you can browse on looks and then refer to the step by step instructions.  Some of the recipes might be better left in the 1970's (cold salmon mousse molded in the shape of a fish, complete with peppercorns for eyes??), but even those just gave me a good laugh.	2005-05-11
US	52887769	R1KI3AJVGA9QVP	0812967240	491726583	It's My F---ing Birthday: A Novel	Books	3	4	4	N	N	Quick read, fun escape, not much to write home about	This came recommended on Amazon because I like Laurie Notaro and Cynthia Kaplan.  Markoe is an Emmy-winning writer for David Letterman, and one frequent criticism is that she didn't put much effort into this book.  I can where that comes from, but I liked the book becausse I could finish it in just a few sittings and it was easy to digest.  It is worth a few minutes of your time just for the one hilarious chapter on dating a fictional semi-popular completely narcissistic but absolutely beautiful tortured rock musician.  I would recommend this to anyone who has had their share of bad dates.<br /><br />The story is told in yearly updates on the narrator's birthday.  I usually resist gimmicky storytelling like that, but this book would have been dreadful had the yearly updates been any more drawn out.  It worked in this case.<br /><br />One character who really frustrated me was the narrators overly critical and nasty mother.  She became a cariacature of herself.  No reasonable adult daughter (in her forties!) would put up with the kind of abuse the narrator's parents doled out.	2005-05-11
US	52887769	R24L0NE6OMJE8D	1842402463	140226998	The Band That Time Forgot: The Complete Unauthorised Biography of Guns N' Roses	Books	1	13	14	N	N	Regurgitated facts; nothing new or original; too many typos!	I am a really big GNR fan and I have a large collection of biographies.  When I heard about this one, naturally I had to buy a copy.  I barely finished a fourth of this book due to the extremely large amount of typos and the fact that there is abosolutely nothing new in this material.  I haven't read any other GNR book in at least two years, so I'm not a source of endless GNR trivia, but nearly every \\"fact\\" or \\"anecdote\\" in this book was something I remembered hearing from another source.<br /><br />This book is extremely shoddily done; shame on the writer and the publisher!  It was put out just to capitalize on the hype around Chinese Democracy (don't even get me started on the mud Axl is dragging the memory of GNR through), and the author/editor/publisher clearly had no concern for producing a high quality product.<br /><br />Go read Mick Wall's book if you want unauthorized (but probably really true, just not that Axl wanted to hear it) material by an outstanding journalist.	2005-05-11
US	52887769	RZZCRZY6QM545	0385510438	817294609	The Last Juror (Grisham, John)	Books	4	3	4	N	N	A meldng of the legal thriller and the small town story	Awesome! This is a magnificent meld of Grisham's legal-thriller type stuff with a beautiful story of small-town interactions and friendships. I thought this was a great development in Grisham's writing style, and this was the book that made me want to try The Broker. Definitely pick this up. But DO NOT READ THE INNER JACKET, because it gives away about 70% of the action, and I would have rather seen the plot develop without reading the spoilers in the jacket. I don't know why they put so much info there.	2005-05-10
US	52887769	R2IJZPS1NWV3QL	0312422156	298109609	Middlesex: A Novel	Books	5	3	5	N	N	An epic journey like none other I've read	I barely have the words to describe this amazing and beautiful book. It is deserving of all the praise it has received.<br /><br />The fact that the novel is set-up as the memoir of a hermaphrodite, Cal, is, of course, an attention grabber. I wanted to get right down into the nitty gritty. But the narrator started two generations back in his family, with his Greek villager grandparents, to explain the cultural, historical, and social circumstances which shaped the Stephanides family and led to his upbringing. I've always had a prejudice against historical fiction, but I gave the first few chapters of this a shot, and I was totally hooked on the lives of his grandparents, and then his parents, and their relationship within the world of Greek immigrants, Prohibition, and the white flight and race riots of Detroit. Cal was shaped genetically as a person, but there were also so many cultural and historical influences. This is an epic, and I loved every word of it.<br /><br />The prose is unlike anything I've read before. Cal shifts from first person into an out of body third person with complete ease. Cal even acts like an omnipotent stage manager setting up a play about her life, and I just totally went with it. Usually, I shudder when the narrator addresses the reader directly on occasion, but I was Cal's confidante, and I loved every word. I never wanted this book to end.<br /><br />A passage I had to mark for its beauty:<br /><br />[p 217] Emotions, in my experience, aren't covered by single words. I don't believe in \\"sadness,\\" \\"joy,\\" or \\"regret.\\" Maybe the best proof that the language is patriarchal is that it oversimplifies feeling. I'd like to have at my disposal complicated hybrid emotions, Germanic traincar constructions like, say, \\"the happiness that attends disaster.\\" Or: \\"the disappointment of sleeping with one's fantasy.\\" I'd like to show how \\"intimations of mortality brought on by aging family members\\" connects with \\"the hatred of mirrors that begins in middle age.\\" I'd like to have a word for \\"the sadness inspired by failing restaurants\\" as well as for \\"the excitement of getting a room with a minibar.\\" I've never had the right words to describe my life, and now that I've entered my story, I need them more than ever.<br /><br />This is Eugenides' second novel, after The Virgin Suicides. I'm not cool because I didn't love the move made out of The Virgin Suicides, but this makes me want to go back and read the novel.ns in middle age.\\" I'd like to have a word for \\"the sadness inspired by failing restaurants\\" as well as for \\"the excitement of getting a room with a minibar.\\" I've never had the right words to describe my life, and now that I've entered my story, I need them more than ever. <br /> <br />This is Eugenides' second novel, after The Virgin Suicides. I'm not cool because I didn't love the move made out of The Virgin Suicides, but this makes me want to go back and read the novel.	2005-05-10
US	52887769	R32NL8D1A5J6QE	0670033944	748214467	The Mermaid Chair: A Novel	Books	2	4	6	N	N	No comparison to her first work	I cried at the beauty of The Secret Life of Bees. I stayed up late to finish it and was transported to another world. So, naturally, I put in my request for Kidd's second novel as soon as I heard about it, months before it was published. And I was let down.<br /><br />This is just kind of ho-hum, a woman with a blah life, trying to find herself, trying to figure out her place in her relationships. It never really grabbed me, and none of the characters were really convincing. What were these's people's motivations? When the twist at the end is finally revealed, I found myself looking back at the entire premise of the novel (mom's lifelong best friend makes the estranged daughter return to mom and friend's island because the mom is having severe mental troubles) to be flawed. Given what other people knew about the secret to the mom's mental troubles, how the heck was bringing the estranged daughter out there a good idea? And why should I care about Jessie? She was poorly developed, in my opinion. The end was predictable and just blah. I contrast that to Bees, in which I had an ending I was secretly hoping for but knew wasn't possible, and Kidd managed to give me and ending that I both adored and found entirely plausible.<br /><br />I did notice that this had the same women-doing-girls-only-quasi-religious-ceremonies-and-dances plot element that Bees had. yet Bees was richer in its religious, cultural, and historical traditions. The history of Catholic saints and Gullah culture seemed forced here...it never really gelled for me. Another repeated theme was the child who felt lifelong guilt over causing the death of a parent.<br /><br />A follow-up to Bees is a weighty task. Sophomore novels are challenging. I won't write Kidd off yet, but she only gets one more chance with me. This alone wouldn't convince me to read more of her stuff.  I'm sad that this got so much hype when it came out.<br /><br />Some reviewers on Amazon have suggested Whispers of the Wicked Saints (Veronica Haddon) as a novel comparable to Bees. Maybe that's what those of us looking for something to transport us like Bees need to read.rable to Bees. Maybe that's what those of us looking for something to transport us like Bees need to read.	2005-05-10
