US	52887881	R37EFH81CK8B1J	0393051412	289223922	The Reckoning: Iraq and the Legacy of Saddam Hussein	Books	3	13	16	N	N	Decent overview of Iraqi history, but nothing more	This book is a solid primer on the history of Iraq. It covers the entire history, from early Mesopotamia through the modern day. It's a decent primer, and good for someone with a limited knowledge of the subject, but is not much more.<br />The book has several large flaws. First, it was fairly obviously rushed to print to take advantage of the the interest in Iraq folowing 9-11 and the recent invasion. As such, there are many sections that are confusing or don't flow well (she has an annoying habit of telling a narrative history, then jumping back 20 years and retelling a whole new big thread that went completely unmentioned in the previous chapter.) The book is also fairly repetetive in its basic themes about the disjointedness of the country, repeating them a half dozen or more times.<br />Lastly, as other reviewers have noticed, there is little firsthand information or new insight here. While her book the Saudis provided a lot of unique personal knowledge and analysis, this book is almost completely a basic history, reading like an extended encyclopedia entry rather than an important new contribution.<br />So, while it gets the basic information across, there are (hopefully) better and more interesting books that would do the same. It's not a bad book, but neither is it anything special.	2003-09-03
US	52887881	RNNJRE6KMGN1A	0306806541	718801342	Hannibal	Books	3	7	14	N	N	Hagiography	This is a solid book, that does a good job presenting an overview of Hannibal's life and campaigns. One strength of the book is Dodge's emphasis on Hannibal's qualities as a captain, in keeping his army together as an effective unit through great difficulties, in a foreign country no less. That aspect of his greatness is often overshadowed by the crushing victories he achieved in battle.<br />On the other hand, the tone of the book is overly fawning, with Hannibal presented as perfect, and any failures of his cause due to factors outside his control. Even worse, Dodge's worship of Hannibal leads him to run down the achievements of his Roman rival, Scipio, giving the book an unbalanced feel to it.<br />I also found Dodge's long digression on the exact route taken by Hannibal through the Alps to be irrelevant and tedious. It may have been a controversy at the time of writing, but exactly which pass Hannibal's army marched over had zero effect on any of the important events before or after the march, and so the detailed discussion of the issue would have been better left out or relegated to an appendix.<br />So, while this is a good book to read to learn the facts about Hannibal, I'd encourage any reader to be sceptical and not to accept Dodge's celebratory interpretations too uncritically.	2001-08-09
US	52887881	R2RT5QS7LQ5MPS	0415015960	552239409	The Beginnings of Rome: Italy and Rome from the Bronze Age to the Punic Wars (c.1000-264 BC) (The Routledge History of the Ancient World)	Books	5	36	39	N	N	First rate scholarly work	This is an excellent book that I think is primarily intended for a scholarly audience (experts in the field, professional historians and archaeologists, etc.) but is also very valuable to an interested amateur like myself.<br />Cornell goes through the early history of Rome and sets out what the evidence is and what we can reliably conclude from it. One of the best features of the book is his willingness, all too rare even among scholars, to recognize when the evidence is inconclusive and to admit that we have no way of knowing the answer to a particular question. He is also clear about the limitations of archaeological data, and recognizes the way it is often misused to support historical theses when, in fact, it is rather the histoprical ideas that allow for the interpretation of the archaeologucal data in the first place.<br />However, while Cornell is pretty good about presenting the narrative historical tradition, the book generally covers the history with fairly large brushstrokes and jumps from one large topic to another without trying to string together a coherent narrative. Because of this, this book is best used as a second reference on early Roman history. That is, it shouldn't be the first book you read on the topic. I think you'd be best served by first reading a good narrative history to provide the framework, and then read this work to fill in the details and show up any inaccuracies.<br />It is well written and suprisingly readable, not at all dry. I'd highly recommend it to anyone who has some knowledge of early Roman history but would like to learn more about the &quot;state of the art&quot; in that field.	2001-06-29
US	52887881	R1U5N3DUHI20AK	0140187243	62081801	Billiards at Half-Past Nine (Classic, 20th-Century, Penguin)	Books	5	31	32	N	N	Gripping panorama of German life	This work, in my opinion Boll's greatest, takes place duirng a single day in the life of Robert Faemel. He is an architect and ex-soldier who since WWII has turned inward, relying on routine to get him through the days. As the story unfolds, the reaader learns of the difficult and tragic events in his life that have led Robert to seek escape from the world, and ultimately gives hope that even these darknesses can be overcome.<br />Through his memories and those of his family, the book paints a remarkable panoramic picture of German life from ~1920 through 1960. The book really presents 3 generations of a German family and their experiences through this harrowing period. It shows both the dark side of postwar Germany, where many ex-Nazis had risen to positions of power and influence, as well as the lonely lights of human goodness and decency that remained throughout the dark period of the Nazis rise to power and the second world war.<br />As always, Boll's character's are expertly drawn and powerfully human. The storytelling can be difficult, requiring attention to keep up with the flashbacks and change in narrators. But it is absolutely worth the effort, as reading it will be a powerful experience that will stay with you.	2001-06-13
US	52887881	R3DJYDSM70G3HY	0394712439	863473949	Remembrance of Things Past Volumes 1-3 Box Set	Books	5	62	63	N	N	Brilliant psychological detail	If you're here reading this review, then you're presumably thinking of reading Proust. Given that, you also probably know that it's supposed to be one of the greatest works of literature ever written, an opinion I happen to agree with. But what makes it so great? And should you give it a try?<br />To answer the first part, while different people will find different things, what I enjoy most is Proust's tremendous psychological insight, and his ability to move from the specific to the general. The work is full of small events which Proust uses as springboards to illustrate general characteristics, many of which you will read with the shock of recognition that true insight provides.<br />And Proust tackles the big questions: love, art, and memory are all major themes, just to pick the most notable examples. But it is not all heavy, serious drudgery. Proust is also a very funny writer, and there are large sections which show a wonderful comedy of manners or social satire.<br />So should you try it? I would definitely recommend it, with a few caveats. First, while I think his reputation is a bit overblown, Proust can be a difficult writer. The biggest hurdle is his style; he writes very long, involved sentences that pile clauses upon clauses. But given this length and intricacy, it is remarkable how clear Proust's prose actually is. Only very rarely will you have to stop and recatch the drift of a sentence. And when that happens, it's usually because your attention has wandered, not because of any inherent opaqueness. And after you become accustomed to it, Proust's writing style becomes one of the charms of the work, immersing you in a different world every time you pick up the books.<br />It is also unfortunate in a way that probably the most difficult section of the book is the very first, &quot;Combray.&quot; However, even if you find that tough going, things pick up with the second section, &quot;Swann in Love.&quot; (Although it is never a page turner in the usualsense.) And if you can read and enjoy the first 50 pages, then you can make it through the whole thing.<br />The length also puts many prospective readers off, but I wouldn't worry about that so much. The total cast of characters is relatively large, but not huge, and they are so well presented and disntinctive that I never had any trouble keeping them straight. And because the work is not driven by details of the plot, it can be set down and picked up a little later without losing much, if your motivation lags. (This is a last point to keep in mind: the work will not carry you along with the plot or keep you guessing about what will happen. Instead, it will captivate you with the detail and insight it brings to present the everyday occurences of life.) <br />Obviously, there's much more I could write, but hopefully this will give you some idea of the work and whether you would like it, which is what a review is all about...	2001-06-05
US	52887881	R1I10H9WAA3LG6	0375701389	317401482	My Pilgrim's Progress: Media Studies, 1950-1998	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Hit and miss	I'm torn about this book and don't really know what to rate it, since I found it wildly uneven. But ultimately I think there are enough interesting insights and thought provoking ideas to warrant 4 stars.<br />Trow meditates on cultural values and attitudes, using examples such as the front page of the NY Times as jump-off points for his reflections. Many of these are very penetrating and allow you to see the development of the country since 1950 in a new light. In particualr, his analysis of the major cultural threads operating at 1950, and the way that TV ended up winning almost by default, was excellent.<br />On the down side, despite the title the scope of the book is very narrow. There is little coverage of anything that has happened since 1960 or so. The book is also rather geographically limited, as Trow is very focused on New York City, upper class intellectual NYC, to be exact.<br />I also found the style to be very distracting. Trow writes in a stream of consciousness fashion, which to me really cripples the book and was almost enough to make me knock off another star. He rarely comes out and states an idea, but instead dances around the issue for 15 pages, constantly getting sidetracked and going off on tangents. In the end, you are forced to go back and fill int he blanks to figure out what he was actually trying to get at. Maybe it makes me old fashioned, but in non-fiction I like writers to actually spit out what they're trying to say, rather than playing games and being cutesy.<br />And as another reviewer mentioned, he has a bad habit of coining new phrases and terminology, which is annoying and makes the book harder to follow than it needs to be. The fact that he often dances around the definition of his terms in the same way he does other things only makes this habit more obnoxious.<br />But on the whole, I'd recommend the book, since it will challenge you and make you think about recent history, as well as restoring a bit of perspective to modernsociety and its roots in the post-war period.	2001-05-30
US	52887881	R17ZYABMJTZSIY	0394495179	152594585	The Civil War, 3-Volume Box Set	Books	5	12	12	N	N	Sets the standard for narrative history	Foote's magnum opus is the essential history of the Civil War. While it is long, the space is not wasted or unnecessary--it simply takes that many pages to present the events in adequate detail.<br />Foote almost never makes any judgements on the events which occurred. He merely tells, in clear and artful prose, what happened. There are a few &quot;what ifs,&quot; but he will not tell you whether Lee or Grant was a better general, or give his opinion on any of the other controversies about the war. Judgement calls and conclusions are left to the reader. If you're looking for a book to tell you what to think about the Civil War, this is not for you. But if you want to find out the events that occurred in order to decide for yourself, then you can't do any better.<br />One of the best features of the work is its geographical evenhandedness. Most quick coverages of the war keep a fairly tight focus on the conflict in northern Virginia, with occasional peeks out west for major events such as the fall of Vicksburg. Foote gives the decisive events in the west equal weight to those in Virginia, and also gives detailed attention to the campaigns west of the Mississippi.<br />Through it all, Foote does a masterful job of keeping the multiple threads of events clear. It is an art to tell multiple simultaneous stories without confusing, boring, or frustrating the reader, and Foote pulls off this difficult task with a skill that makes it appear almost effortless.<br />Foote also includes maps with each battle, to help the reader visualize the conflicts.	2001-05-30
US	52887881	R6LUTZ708DLX	0375725806	718909823	Underground: The Tokyo Gas Attack and the Japanese Psyche	Books	3	3	6	N	N	Never really came together for me	This book makes for interesting reading, and it paints a chilling picture of the impact of terrorism on everyday lives. (There is a strong element of sensationalism in the page turning quality of these interviews. Like seeing a car crash, you can't turn away from the tragic stories, although you feel a little dirty afterwords.) But all of the first-person narratives never really coalesced to say anything to me, or to provide any particular insight. A few of the stories were very moving, but for the most part didn't stay with me when I put the book down.<br />The second part, with its interviews with current or former members of Aum, was interesting in its presentation of why members joined and what Aum provided for them. But I didn't feel that it ever got to the heart of the matter, which is why individuals were willing to carry out this horrible job of releasing poison gas on the subway. Maybe this is impossible, and Murakami did try, but I didn't feel any closer to the answer after reading the book than I was before picking it up.<br />I also felt that the American version could have used an introductory section with a little more general information about the attack, its outcome, and the motives of the Aum organization in carrying it out. Japanese readers are likely familiar with such details, but I had nothing more than a sketchy idea of what had happened and why. The bbok never filled this gap.	2001-05-21
US	52887881	R3QYB2YSFIL3VI	0679739386	526429290	Rescuing Prometheus: Four Monumental Projects That Changed the Modern World	Books	2	11	27	N	N	Boring telling of an interesting tale	Hughes has picked out an interesting subject to write a book about--namely the rise of large scale technological projects in the post WWII world. Unfortuantely, I don't think he's enough of a writer to bring it off.<br />The best popular science/history hybrids bring you a sense of the excitement of the technological advance, a new knowledge of the problems faced and solutions found, and an insight into the characters and personalities behind the science. Hughes doesn't really do any of this. The book is extremely dry and reads like a laundry list of facts rather than a compelling narrative. None of the characters ever come alive. And for the most part, I didn't feel he did a very good job presenting the technological challenges faced. I think he perhaps tried to do too much with the book, telling four stories instead of one or two in the depth required to really draw the reader in.<br />I really wanted to like this book, especially as a former worker in operations research/systems analysis. But unfortunately, Hughes doesn't deliver on the promise that the subject has.	2001-05-21
US	52887881	RMGLWYZN9Z5GL	0679772693	620118114	A Short History of Byzantium	Books	4	3	6	N	N	Nice overview but far too short	I think this book is about as good as you can do trying to cover the whole history of Byzantium in a single volume. Which is to say, not especially well; there is simply far too much history to really do it justice in such a short space. Yes, there is the longer 3 volume version by Norwich, but unfortunately the publishers have declined to offer that at an affordable price, so I was reduced to buying this work instead.<br />On the plus side, it's an absorbing read and does give a reasonable overview of the subject. It also is enough to proivide support to Norwich's essential thesis, namely that Byzantium was a rich and important civilization that made important contributions and served as a bulwark for Europe against Islamic expansionism. He intends this as a corrective to Gibbon's very negative view of Byzantium as a decadent civilization, merely a shadow or appendage of the greater and more vibrant Western empire.<br />And Norwich does make a convincing case for his point of view, one which should pique the interest of most readers. Unfortunately, this very virtue highlights the flaw in the work, since it will leave the reader wanting much more detail and information than this single volume can provide.	2001-05-21
US	52887881	R22C5CF26MZKLU	0375753974	683606071	Pontius Pilate	Books	5	15	17	N	N	Fascinating and thought provoking	As Wroe admits, there is not enough hard evidence to allow one to write a true biography of Pilate. So she doesn't attempt this. Instead, she weaves together the fragments that do exist into a wonderful book, which can be roughly divided into 2main sections.<br />The first deals with the historical background. Firstly,what did it mean for a Roman to be named a provincial governor? What sorts of people acheived this status, and how would they have viewed their job? <br />Secondly, what was the situation in Judea during Pilate's time there? What was the relationship between the Romans and the Jews? What do we know about Pilate's specific acts while there? Although I knew quite a bit of Roman history, these sections were still very interesting, and did a better job of putting that history into a personal context than the usual political histories.<br />The second section is much more speculative, and recounts the Passion, using both the Gospels and numerous medieval Passion Plays to explore Pilate, his character, and his motives. I think it is this section that some reviewers have objected to, but it was what I found most interesting. <br />Pilate only shows up briefly in the Gospels, but the very existence of this book testifies to the continuing fascination that he has for people. Wroe traces some of the historical threads and interpretations on Pilate that have been created, and supplies a few speculations of her own. To me, this section read like nothing so much as _The Marriage of Cadmus and Harmony_ by Calasso, with its telling and retelling of the Greek myths, sort of a theme and variations approach to the numerous alternative myths that have grown up around the central stories.<br />So, maybe it isn't biography, but it is an enjoyable, informative, and thought provoking work of non-fiction, wherever you want to shelve it.	2001-04-23
US	52887881	RKCEZAD6LBS8L	0393317552	733405472	Guns, Germs, and Steel: The Fates of Human Societies	Books	2	6	11	N	N	Tedious and thin on ideas	If you are interested in this book, I would strongly urge you to buy his previous book _The Third Chimpanzee_ instead. _Guns, Germs, and Steel_ is merely a book length explication of the ideas contained in one 30 page chapter of that book. Unfortunately, padding them out to 350 pages didn't add much in the way of depth or interest to the ideas. Instead, Diamond goes through and repeats the same basic points 6 or 7 times over the course of this longer work. His writing quickly grew tedious as no new ideas emerged after page 40 or so--merely more repetitive hammering home of the basic points.<br />Not that the core idea--that local biological factors had a decisive influence on the rise of early civiliations--isn't compelling. It is a fascinating perspective. But it's ultimately not enough to carry the entire book, and Diamond really has little else to offer. With _The Third Chimpanzee_ you get the same ideas plus about 15 other ideas almost equally interesting.	2001-02-20
US	52887881	R1HM8VGH8XGWRM	0375706305	574735145	The Last Great Revolution: Turmoil and Transformation in Iran	Books	4	0	2	N	N	Very good reporting	This is a very nice book, which provides a very interesting insight into the state of modern Iran, a nation far more rich and diverse than most westerners realize. Tangentially, the book also provides some interesting insight into the role of Islam in middle eastern states and societies.<br />The author is a reporter, and that background shows through in the book. There is essentially no analysis or deep insight--the author simply tells what has happened and relays what people have told her. This has a lot of value, and the book is about as good as such a piece of work can be, but this narrow scope ultimately limits it to being merely a good book rather than a great one. <br />The writing is also workmanlike at best, and there is some annoying repetition of phrases and statements throughout the book. A little better editing should have cleaned these up. These quibbles aside, it's a very nice book and one which will likely expand your view of the world and give you new understanding of a very different culture.	2001-02-20
US	52887881	R16U8KAEP1A54F	0684869004	469521034	Plague Time: How Stealth Infections Cause Cancer, Heart Disease, and Other Deadly Ailments	Books	3	4	6	N	N	Would have made a nice essay	Actually, that's pretty much all this book is. There was a cover article in &quot;Atlantic Monthly&quot; a few years back that contained all the important ideas in this book and then some. This book merely fluffs out those ideas a bit, prints them with large type and big margins, and adds a few irrelevant tangents to (barely) get the book up to an acceptable length to market.<br />The main idea, that many diseases beleived to have genetic and environmental causes may actually be linked to infectious agents, is interesting, challenging, and worth more investigation. But the book is ultimately unconvincing on this central thesis, and doesn't explore it in the depth I expected from a book-length treatment. Ewald is a true believer, and his main reason for his belief is theoretical. If diseases were genetic, then they should be selected against. Ergo, heart disease (to take an example) can't be a genetic problem, it must be something else. A suggestive argument, but, despite Ewald's zeal, theory proves nothing without some experimental verification.<br />Unfortunately, there is limited experimental support for his thesis. Ewald is reduced to repeatedly bringing up the two cases for which his thesis has been proven: cervical cancer and peptic ulcers. He must mention both of these at least 10 times through the course of the short book. Beyond that, he's got a few somewhat suggestive results and a lot of hectoring and arguing by analogy. His ideas may be true, but it's far from clear just yet.<br />Beyond that, he adds in a long historical digression on the emergence of AIDS, which was mildly interesting but almost completely unrelated to any other part of the book. But they needed that extra 35 pages to push up the length.<br />I'd say it's worth checking out from the library, but if you've read any (however brief) explication of Ewald's ideas before, you're not going to find anything new in this book to make it worth getting.	2001-02-13
US	52887881	R3H6ELYT2Y6Q2P	0300066635	189948442	Battle Tactics of the Western Front: The British Army`s Art of Attack, 1916-18	Books	3	14	20	N	N	Poorly titled polemic	Griffith has a clear goal with this book, and that is to demonstrate that the British Infantry was at least as skilled at attacking as the German infantry in WWI. He does a good job of this, but a much less satisfactory job of exploring actual small unit tactics in any depth. <br />Most of the discussion of infantry tactics is in very general terms that would be familiar to anyone who's read a decent general history of the war. I was hoping for more details and case studies, going down into the nitty gritty of what went on during an attack. How did units advance? How did they coordinate with flank units and supporting arms? How were trench assaults carried out and successes reinforced?<br />Instead, Griffith looks at the broad scale development of British tactics and shows that the British weren't stuck with hidebound ideas, but were actually rather innovative in important ways. While this does answer some of the criticisms levelled against British generalship, it only sharpens others. If British tactics were so good, then why were the results so miserable? Either some of the tactics weren't as good as Griffith makes out, or the larger strategy was unbelievably incompetant.	2001-02-13
US	52887881	RY1WX0K0933PM	0140447202	916647216	Maxims and Reflections (Penguin Classics)	Books	2	9	19	N	N	Disappointing	I was very disappointed in the quality of this book; I guess it goes to show that genius in other fields of literature and art do not necessarilly translate into writing effective aphorisms.<br />Many of Goethe's reflections included here lack any punch--there is nothing unexpected in them, no new way of seeing things or flash of insight. Many of the statements that he seemed proud of seemed to be obvious or uninteresting to me. Many others concerned Goethe's peculiar (and incorrect) view of science. As an ex-scientist I found these, in general, to more exasperating than enlightening. Many of the reflections were rather long and rambling, lacking the tightness and economy that characterizes the best aphorisms. As a final complaint, many of the maxims are not really individual thoughts at all. Instead Goethe simply broke up longer arguments into individual sentences and gave them each their seperate number as if they were stand-alone maxims.<br />Overall, I found little that was memorable or stimulating in this book. Perhaps the lack is in me (&quot;When a book and a head collide and a hollow sound ensues, must it always come from the book?&quot;--Anton Kuh); maybe I simply don't have an affinity for Goethe's thought. But I wouldn't recommend this book. Instead pick up a work by one of the true masters of the form: Nietzsche, Lichtenberg, and La Rochefoucauld.	2000-10-26
US	52887881	R3KMLOC7ZLTON3	0941419746	498874642	One, No One, and One Hundred Thousand (Eridanos Library)	Books	4	11	12	N	N	Engaging meditation on identity	This short book by Pirandello is a quick read, but if you're like me the ideas will stay with you. Pirandello explores the nature of personal identity and the disconnect between self-image and the views that others have of us. It's not a great book, but it is a very good one and is definitely worth the afternoon spent reading.	2000-10-23
US	52887881	R2FM94IO45YPZG	0374234612	106059277	Plowing the Dark: A Novel	Books	2	10	13	N	N	Powers' worst by far	For most authors I might have given this book 3 stars, but knowing what  Powers is capable of makes this very middling effort that much more  disappointing. Powers' books in the past have worked on multiple levels,  with intriguing ideas meshed with an interesting plot, together with  well-realized characters. Parallel plots with interesting cross-links  provide food for interpretation and Powers' high-flying prose made reading  interesting and fun.<br />This book has none of these merits. First, and most  glaringly, the book has no plot. There is no dramatic tension at all. In  fact, not until page 250 was there even a challenge or a problem to be  solved by the characters. And at that point, it simply felt like an  afterthought, and not one that was particularly interesting, either.<br />It's  hard to criticize without spoilers, but I found the conclusion to be  shallow and silly. I thought the exaggerated character reactions caused by  an extremely distant and tenuous military connection to be completely  unbelievable.<br />I didn't think the two parallel plots really  cross-fertilized and enriched each other in the way they have in Powers'  better works. In this book, they seemed like two seperate stories tacked  together, as if Powers was &quot;writing by numbers,&quot; lacking any more  original structure for a novel.<br />Powers' strength has never been his  characters, but in this novel they seemed shallower than usual. And they  were described almost exclusively in terms of what they had experienced,  and not by their actions in the present. (This is related to the lack of  plot mentioned earlier.) This gave the characters a two-dimensional  feel.<br />Lastly, I didn't find the ideas in the novel to be grand or  gripping. Virtual reality seems to me to be a neat little technology, not  the monumental, existence changing advance that Powers tries to make it out  to be. It just doesn't have the shoulders to support grand ideas and musing  that, say, the discovery of the DNA-protein link or game theory do. VR's  main application is in making neat video games, which I find it hard to get  too worked up about.<br />The above makes it sound like I hated the book,  which I didn't. It was a decent read and was a way to enjoyably pass a few  evenings. I'm probably overcompensating because of the effusive praise the  book has gotten here. But it was an average book at best, and one which  left me completely unsatisfied.	2000-09-06
US	52887881	R3R8FD9H8LHEK7	0312140924	752837064	Waiting for the Dark, Waiting for the Light: A Novel	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Powerful and insightful	This novel explores the events before and after the Velvet revolution in Czechoslovakia through the experiences of a photographer. Under Communist rule, he was forced to take artless phtotgraphs for news agencies but had  always dreamed of being able to pursue his art and make great films. After  the revolution, he may have his chance.<br />The novel works both as the story  of a single man's life and in exploring more generally how Czech society  after Communism did and did not live of to the dreams of freedom that its  citizens had.  There is a safety in unattainable dreams that is no longer  there once they are realizable. (Think _The Iceman Cometh_.)	1999-12-03
US	52887881	R3DPESCMOAGJHZ	0810111489	495421822	End of a Mission (European Classics)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Hilarious Satire	An extremely funny book, it has a quiet, wry sense of humor. But, like all good satires, there is an underlying seriousness. In this book, the underlying themes deal with the relationship between the state and the  individual. <br />As always, Boll's characters are powerfully human and fully  realized, and the events are told with a touch that remains light without  trivializing.	1999-11-03
US	52887881	R3HND25NQ7RPYD	0810112078	40475276	The Stories of Heinrich Boll (European Classics)	Books	5	17	17	N	N	Tremendous	A fantastic collection. Boll shows a beautiful touch in presenting the horror of WWII and its aftermath. The story &quot;Stranger bear word to the Spartans...&quot; alone is worth the cover price, and it's only 5 of the  400+ pages. Do yourself a favor and buy this book. It will introduce you to  one of the finest writers of the 20th century.	1999-11-03
US	52887881	R2S0FLO851EL3	0374115435	774225373	A Book of Memories: A Novel	Books	4	26	29	N	N	Good but difficult	I was drawn into reading this book by the comparisons with Proust, which I don't think are really justified. It is a very good book, and has some  superficial similarities, but I didn't find the same psychological insight  in Nadas that Proust had. Nadas seems to have an exceptionally keen eye for  external detail, and has many brilliant descriptions of things, but I don't  think he has the same brilliance for interior, psychological details. A  simple way to put it would be that where Proust writes about love, Nadas  writes about sex.<br />The book also suffers from overly clever and elliptical  story-telling, weaving together two distinct plots (which are confusingly  both told in the first person, by very similar narrators), without clear  indications of when it switches from one to the other. Nadas also adopts a  faulkneresque non-linear narrative style, jumping around in time, which  further confuses the issue. A few more concessions to readability would  have benefitted the book enormously, in my opinion.<br />A last comment is  that the book's central, climactic events hinge around the Hungarian  revolution in 1950, but it assumes the reader already knows all the events  of that period. If you don't know the timeline of events and the internal  politics of Hungary during this turmoil, you would do well to brush up on  it before reading Nadas's work.	1999-10-30
US	52887881	R5RVRD84BM7CC	0670870951	436220225	Stalingrad: The Fateful Siege, 1942-1943	Books	3	12	18	N	N	Disappointing	Given the rave reviews that this book has gotten, I was hoping for more than it gave. It isn't a bad book, but neither is it exceptional. In particular, I came away without any real feel for the street fighting in  Stalingrad. Since this was what made Stalingrad unique, I thought it would  be a natural emphasis of the book. Instead Beevor's work focuses almost  exclusively on the command level, although he spruces it up with the  occassional quote from diaries or letters.<br />Because of the lack of  &quot;ground-level&quot; battle description, the book never really explains  how the Soviet forces in the city, badly outnumbered and with a tenuous  supply line, managed to hold off the Wehrmacht long enough to enable the  encirclement. This is the main question that the battle makes me wonder  about, and I'm still wondering.<br />Another fault, to me, was that Beevor  spent too long setting the scene. Almost a third of the book covers the  period before the Germans reached Stalingrad. While I recognize the desire  to write a stand-alone book, I think that was misplaced emphasis.	1999-06-25
US	52887881	R16G7TLERO0PWO	0374199507	575635470	The Memoirs of Elias Canetti: The Tongue Set Free, The Torch in My Ear, The Play of the Eyes	Books	5	57	58	N	N	Wonderful: A High Point of 20th Century Literature	I'm at a loss to convey how great this book is. I think anyone who enjoys literature and fine writing should read it. Canetti was one of the leading writers and intellectuals of the 20th century, and he brings all his  formidable talent and insight to this work.<br />The biography is excellent on  many levels. First, it works as a simple biography. Canetti led a very  interesting life, and he does an excellent job presenting the important  events and influences that shaped him. Because of this, it is a required  read for anyone who has enjoyed his other major works (_Auto Da Fe_ and  _Crowds and Power_.)<br />Second, it is great literature. Canetti was an  excellent writer, clear and lucid without being bland, with a wonderful  ability to see and present the fundamental elements of individuals. His  memoirs are full of rich and fascinating characters, which Canetti is able  to present either in a few quick strokes or in full detail, depending on  their role in his life.<br />Third, it is a fascinating record of the time.  Canetti came of age during and after WWI, and spent much of his early  adulthood in the intellectual turmoil of interwar Vienna. Canetti focuses  mainly on the intellectual life, describing his interactions with Robert  Musil, Bertolt Brecht, Hermann Broch, Karl Kraus, Isaac Babel, and others.  Inevitably, though, the memoirs also give some details of everyday  existence in central Europe during this chaotic period.<br />The memoir is not  told as a single continuous narrative. Instead, the book gives a series of  vivid incidents and characters, the things that Canetti remembered about  his life. Because of this, his memoir has a universally high level of power  and detail, without long flat stretches of filler. It was his autobiography  that finally generated enough support for Canetti to be awarded the Nobel  Prize. In my opinion it is is best, most accessible work, and one which can  stand with the greatest of 20th century literature.	1999-04-19
US	52887881	R1GYGWJPUR9KX1	0312857691	504533718	The Path of Daggers (The Wheel of Time, Book 8)	Books	3	0	0	N	N	A slight improvement	After spending two books in neutral and reverse, the plot finally lurches  into first gear in this book. Most notably, the irrelevant tedium of the  quest for the Bowl of Winds is finally wrapped up. (When was the last time  a plotline was actually resolved?) And the two Aes Sedai factions are so  close to their final confrontation that not even Jordan could write another  book without finishing that off as well. That's not a lot, granted, but  it's still better than the previous two volumes. <br />The main weaknesses of  the previous volumes remain, however. Jordan still seems to feel compelled  to have every single event, no matter how insignificant, occur on-stage. So  we are &quot;treated&quot; to many more long scenes showing various bad  guys (and gals) plotting against Rand and the other heroes. Of course, to  maintain suspense, Jordan rarely reveals any details of the evil-doers  plots, so we have dozens if not hundreds of pages whose sole message is  that many people want to do bad things to the main characters. (Anyone  remember a few books ago when we had at least a hundred pages of internal  plotting by the Whitecloaks? Did that have a point?)<br />While improved from  the last couple of volumes, Jordan's writing is still overly verbose and  workmanlike at best. And, while there's less of it, there's still too much  of the childish male-female simpering, fawning, and flirting. It was  amusing at first, but Jordan rode that particular horse into the ground  several thousand pages ago.<br />Most ominously, in my opinion, is the way  Jordan has turned Rand from one of the most interesting characters into the  most annoying. It's going to be tough managing to make the story work when  the hero grates like fingernails on a blackboard. The whole madness/voice  in the head thing has been poorly managed by Jordan, and has made all the  scenes with Rand in them almost painful to read.<br />Anyway, if you've made  it this far in the series, you're probably as hooked as I am. And in that  case, it's probably worth it to spring the $20 for the hardcover, saving  you the wait and the difficulty of reading another one of the cheap cubical  paperbacks. (Why don't they release them in a nice trade paperback edition,  instead of the smaller size? It would be much nicer, especially for books  of this length.)	1998-10-27
US	52887881	R22TM1ELL52VNO	0374159963	184001758	Gain	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Powers returns to his old form	After the muddled _Operation:Wandering Soul_ and the disappointing and overpraised _Galatea 2.2_, Powers in this book returns to the form of his first three novels, which made him my favorite contemporary novelist.<br />Like most of his other novels, _Gain_ mixes together two plotlines. The first is the struggle of a middle-aged, divorced mother of two, Laura Bodey, to deal with ovarian cancer, her children, and her ex. The second, parallel story details the rise of the huge multi-national corporation Clare International from its modest beginnings as a small family business through all the twists and turns of American history.<br />With these two stories, Powers looks at the way in which technology has become omnipresent in our lives, and attempts to trace how the imperatives of business worked to produce the modern world, in which corporations have grown beyond any individuals ability to control them. Along the way, we find out that a local Clare factory may be responsible for Laura's cancer, one illustration (of many)of the costs of continuous 'progress.' <br />Despite some of the reviews, Powers doesn't have a political agenda here. Rather, he sees both the good and the bad that have come from technology, and merely (!) tries to answer how we came to the point where our everyday household objects are made by processes we don't understand, with materials from 6 different continents.<br />Powers is one of the few writers with the interest and background to really address the technological issues that increasingly shape our lives. He doesn't just gratuitously throw in technological details to look sophisticated, but actually tries to come to grips with the modern world and the forces that shape it. _Gain_ succeeeds completely on this thematic level, and also as both a fascinating history and a moving story of one woman. As a final achievement, the novel manages to be very funny. I highly recommend it.	1998-07-07
US	52887881	R35DF3UUR7Y1OX	0306801949	244659195	Stendhal's: On Love	Books	4	9	11	N	N	Interesting but Flawed	In this book, Stedhal attempts to analyze the phenomenon of love. I'd highly recommend it to any fans of Proust, as it presents many of the ideas which were more completely and satisfyingly developed in novel form in _Remembrance of Things Past._   The first half of the book contains the meat of Stendhal's ideas, which I found very interesting. However, the second part, in which Stedhal attempts to give examples of his ideas, was uniteresting and would have been better left out. Stedhal spends a lot of time discussing the particular ways that different nationalities approach love. Perhaps a European reader might find this parade of national stereotypes interesting, but I thought the second half of the book was tedious and didn't add anything to the ideas developed in the first part.	1997-12-17
