US	52891068	R16TV2XZ3A9MLC	0968588190	767897402	Fragments of Lappish Mythology	Books	4	40	40	N	N	Interesting	This book is divided in to sections about Dieties, Sacrifice, Divination and Lappish Tales.  Giving his own recollections and knowledge and quoting a number of others who wrote before him, and an Addition that adds more information from another who wrote at the same time (around 1840).  Covers a range of beliefs and practices that continued on into the 18th century.  Including detailed descriptions of such things as the bear hunt and reindeer sacrifices, as well as about their shamen (noaides) and a collection of tales about giants (stallo), that he theorizes are about invading Vikings, as well as detailed information about the Sami divination drum and how it was used.<br />I read this book as part of a study of Norse mythology, but enjoyed reading it for its interest in giving as much detailed information as possible from a region where paganism seemed to linger on.  And is fine an interesting enough for a general reader.  However it is all scholarly prose with only a few actual poetic verses.  Clearly none of the old religion remained when this book was written, but it still provides a great deal of information.  Only a few illustrations.	2004-06-24
US	52891068	R3JM2JUT264CV	0806524634	661893621	The City Of Light	Books	3	3	7	N	N	many indications that this is largely a 20th Century work	This volume starts out as a plausable enough chronicle of a Jewish merchant from Italy who travels to China and so on, but very quickly it becomes apparent that this is just the setting for a series of philosophical debates that the merchant partakes in with other groups in the &quot;City of Light&quot;.<br />It is written like no other narrative from the past I have seen and is quite long as well.  Although I am no expert on that time and place, and there are none who truly are, what really makes it suspect is the fact that most of the work fails to give details of how people lived and what things were like at that time and place and instead concentrates on the dialogues that he is invited to and partakes in.  And all of the matters that they discuss are those that would preoccupy the mind of a person in the late 20th Century.  Which either means that people in the 13th Century had identical problems to those we have today, or that this was written by someone in the late 20th Century.  He even forsees the Holocaust at one point.<br />There is nothing that would secure it as authentic and many indications that this is largely a 20th Century work, enough to make it well accepted as a forgery until proven otherwise (which I never expect to happen).  As for what it contains and the value of its philosophical debates, it offers nothing in the way of secure arguments, unless you already accept the Jewish religious teachings as a source of unchallenged wisdom.  It also was rather long without adding much.  It might have been better to publish this as a modern philosophical novel, which would have permitted it to be a better novel, without attempting to mislead scholars, that can cause trouble for years.  Although I realize that from a publishing standpoint, it gets more attention to claim authenticity.<br />Also, he (Selbourne) clips off the return journey, which might have been one of the only authentic parts in the book.  I paid full price for this book when it was first published and I consider it was not worth it.	2004-05-26
US	52891068	R1F677TQI20QPU	0316639680	661893621	The City of Light	Books	3	3	5	N	N	Many indications that this is largely a 20th Century work	This volume starts out as a plausable enough chronicle of a Jewish merchant from Italy who travels to China and so on, but very quickly it becomes apparent that this is just the setting for a series of philosophical debates that the merchant partakes in with other groups in the &quot;City of Light&quot;.<br />It is written like no other narrative from the past I have seen and is quite long as well.  Although I am no expert on that time and place, and there are none who truly are, what really makes it suspect is the fact that most of the work fails to give details of how people lived and what things were like at that time and place and instead concentrates on the dialogues that he is invited to and partakes in.  And all of the matters that they discuss are those that would preoccupy the mind of a person in the late 20th Century.  Which either means that people in the 13th Century had identical problems to those we have today, or that this was written by someone in the late 20th Century.  He even forsees the Holocaust at one point.<br />There is nothing that would secure it as authentic and many indications that this is largely a 20th Century work, enough to make it well accepted as a forgery until proven otherwise (which I never expect to happen).  As for what it contains and the value of its philosophical debates, it offers nothing in the way of secure arguments, unless you already accept the Jewish religious teachings as a source of unchallenged wisdom.  It also was rather long without adding much.  It might have been better to publish this as a modern philosophical novel, which would have permitted it to be a better novel, without attempting to mislead scholars, that can cause trouble for years.  Although I realize that from a publishing standpoint, it gets more attention to claim authenticity.<br />Also, he (Selbourne) clips off the return journey, which might have been one of the only authentic parts in the book.  I paid full price for this book when it was first published and I consider it was not worth it.	2004-05-26
US	52891068	R1KJQJEZL59JN7	0465076696	591748085	The Settlement of the Americas: A New Prehistory	Books	3	11	23	N	N	Accumulation of archaeological finds and some speculation.	Groundbreaking as this book may appear to be to some, it seems to be able to clarify little beyond that the over-riding theory that has been held through now (centering on the N. American &quot;Clovis&quot; culture) is mistaken.  However, apart from the evidence (often inconclusive) and his taking part in the far easier task of deconstructing a theory, rather than in constructing, it seems that so little is known about the subject matter that it will be left to those living several decades in the future to have any real clue as to the complexity of migrations into the Americas.  To imply this is a &quot;New Prehistory&quot; is saying too much.  The work is entirely comprehensive but reads rather like an accumulation of archaeological work to date.  If you are prepared to read two hundred pages of background and a run-down of all excavations and sites that have or might build a new picture of the migration models into the Western hemisphere followed by some of the authors own speculations (the &quot;probably&quot;s) as to how events actually may have occurred, then you will not be disappointed.  Throughout you will be expected to keep track of fairly esoteric terminology, in his quest to draw comparison or lack thereof, but he does provide a glossary too.	2002-05-31
US	52891068	RRJMPFTAZX9RA	0812694120	782292005	How to Think About the Great Ideas: From the Great Books of Western Civilization	Books	3	26	31	N	N	Basic introduction to some of Adler's Great Ideas.	Each chapter represents one program and most consist of a dialogue of sorts between Adler and Luckman, with Adler also answering viewer questions.  But as it must already be clear what this book is, I will seek to establish why I gave it only three stars.  Firstly, because Amazon does not permit assigning 3 and 1/2 stars.  Second, that it is rather long considering how much there is to actually gain from it.  The number of subjects that he attempts to cover reduces most of the discussions to a rather elementary introduction.  This is good in the sense that it might whet the appetite, before you might get bored by a tedious analysis, but often you get a sense that Adler's final word is good enough before he moves on. Some of the brevity and incompleteness is a function of the presentation, and this limits how much you might actually gain in understanding the topics.  The accurate presentation of dialogue adds nothing to the book.  Probably it would be most interesting to those who are fond of Dr. Adler and like reading his other books.  It is hard to recommend another book that would fulfill the same function that this one does, and this is the first of his that I've read.	2002-05-04
US	52891068	RD8KB6M737OEM	0140444742	748309591	Seven Viking Romances (Penguin Classics)	Books	4	14	15	N	N	Maybe better called Seven Fanciful Viking Adventures	The term &quot;Romances&quot; in the title refers to the style not the content of these stories.  These are really fantastic adventures.  There are a couple lengthly ones and some short ones, but most all of them are great reading.  I would say that even if you don't find the legalistic/feud-based Icelandic sagas particularly appealing, these are a quite different. These seem much more like mythical stories, although the Norse gods play only a limited role in them.  In some ways they are like Beowulf because they portray Norse dealing with fantastic creatures and magic.  They would make great movies, but not really for children.	2002-05-04
US	52891068	RWEXHGRA562ML	0500051011	960001459	The Tarim Mummies: Ancient China and the Mystery of the Earliest Peoples from the West	Books	3	10	21	N	N	Lots of academic theorizing to reade, sometimes engaging.	What this is, mainly, is a discussion about the cultural name and the language of the mummies might be.  This is fine, and should occupy a chapter, but half the book is specifically related to trying to pin down a name out of Chinese and European sources and where they came from from archaeological and linguistic knowledge.    It seemed to me that the book might better have concentrated on what could be learned of their culture from what we DO know from their burials and with comparisons to how people live in those regions today.  There is no in-depth analysis of the items (beyond what you can see for yourself in the photographs) nor comparison of cultural details or even explaining what a nomadic lifestyle would be like, nor discussion of specific practices that might suggest their beliefs.  And when mention is made it is done briefly so they can get on with their analysis of the historical basis of Central Asia.  Clearly they chose their emphasis simply because they have such limited access to the mummies themselves.    There are several chapters at the end that spell out all the competing ideas of how the Tarim basin may have been populated, which probably belonged in a anthropological journal.  But I cannot say the book is not interesting to reade, its just that I kept waiting for a close study of cultural comparisons right until the book ended.  For this reason I liked Barber's book better, for her close appraisal of Tarim fabrics and then to speak of how they might have been made.  One feature of the mummies was the women with \\"witch\\" hats.  The authors simply say the real witch's hat was Puritan dress from the 17th century and then blithely go on.  Now somehow I believed the Puritans were Christians not pagans, but maybe I'm wrong.	2002-03-19
US	52891068	R2QA173WC8D8S5	0140442138	632632148	Two Lives of Charlemagne (Penguin Classics)	Books	3	18	29	N	N	One biased and one highly embellished "biography"	Whether you wish to reade this book depends much on what you expect from it.  If you are really seeking anything approaching an honest portrayal of the life of Charles the Great or anecdotes told by those who worked closely with him then you might be disappointed.  However, if you are seeking examples of biographical styles in use at this time, you probably will find them interesting.  The first Life by Einhard seems to promise a rather intimate portrait of the man he knew, but simply outlines in a rather simple form aspects of his personal and political life that clearly favor and applaud all that he ever did, and it seems leaving out things that might taint his reputation.  It is short (under 40 pages) and often paints in the broadest of strokes.  The second Life by Notker is filled with anecdotes, some even about Charlemagne, but it seems even after this reading that you have learned little about the man himself.  Certainly it was written some 70 years after his death, but it seems already to be starting up the legendary traditions that were to follow.  Then, after about 80 pages, suddenly comes to an end with a 'but...'.  Not a bad book to reade, but also not exceptional.  It stands out, though, as an example of literary endeavour, with some historical truth, from a time that certainly is significant but is also rather murky.  How much this books serves to clear this up is debatable.	2002-03-03
US	52891068	R18A1JQAVCSC7C	0520226127	962324583	The Lost Chronicles of the Maya Kings	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Total story of the Maya	As a general reader with an interest in the Maya, I found that this book delivered.  It was well written and not difficult and didn't get bogged down in archaeological minutae.  But it IS thorough.  Not just about the so called &quot;Lost Chronicles&quot; but a total survey of our knowledge of the Maya, from their &quot;discovery&quot;, the serpentine journey to understanding them, and what is known from their origin through to recent times.  But he is clear to point out that in Classical times we are restricted often to the lives of rulers, and often only of a few cites that have lots of inscriptions and are well studied.  He even agrees that it is time to return the study of Mayan culture to the Mayan descendants.  One still gets a sense of sketchiness in the presentation, which only reveals that even with all that has been recently aquired is still not very much.  Contains maps, many b&amp;w illustrations and color plates.  He could have used twice as many, these things are really beautiful.<br />Aside: One aspect of Maya scholarship is the destruction in the 16th century of several Maya bark scrolls by Friar Diego de Landa.  Although he is only supposed to have burned a few dozen, Drew appears to be wringing his fists as he goes on, as if at each turn these irreplacable items - and he claims the loss of hundreds or thousands - would have answered all his questions.  Well, maybe.	2002-03-03
US	52891068	R2WD55L80SMUF9	0806130121	612109792	The Mythology of Native North America	Books	4	13	13	N	N	Probably a good introduction to native myths.	Native American myths are always primitive, raw, peculiar, and sometimes entertaining, but might not be for everyone.  This particular book is not daunting, at about 200 pages, with most of the myths being relatively short.  What the authors have tried to do is present the myths in a general, more literary approach, and with some reference to similarities with other mythic traditions.  Starting with the native &quot;pantheons&quot;, then to their conception of the cosmos (creation, flood, afterlife, end of world), then to hero myths.  Of these the last section was the most entertaining, the other myths end up being etiological and rather simple.  If you are interested in the mysths in their more original forms there is &quot;American Indian Myths and Legends&quot;.  This book is more like a primer, but is at least a good overall introduction to what is really a vast mythological tradition.	2001-08-18
US	52891068	R19U3KSITCG302	0812216563	70728975	The First Crusade: "The Chronicle of Fulcher of Chartres" and Other Source Materials (The Middle Ages Series)	Books	3	18	29	N	N	Book organization and content not for general reader.	Having read Penguin's very good &quot;Chronicles of the Crusades&quot; (covering the 4th and 7th Crusades) I ran across this book and thought it would provide some intersting stories from the 1st Crusade.  But it has taken me months to get through it, in large part because it seems to have been organized principally to suit a scholar of the Crusades and not the general reader.  Book I of the Chronicle of Fulcher of Chartres is fine enough, but hardly stirring.  While the rest of the book then assembles other sources by subject.  The chapters follow on &quot;Peter the Hermet&quot;, &quot;Journey to Constantinople&quot;, &quot;At Constantinople&quot;, &quot;Siege of Nicea&quot;, &quot;Siege of Antioch&quot;, and &quot;Siege of Jerusalem&quot;, where in each chapter the sources are broken up so you read each version of the same event one after the other.  It is really just a collection of translations with minimal explanation, no extras (such as maps), and does not seem suited for the general reader.  It is for this reason that I rate it lower.  If the sources were presented in full and not broken up by subject, I would have given it an extra star.  Although as the content goes it seems thorough to me (including parts from the accounts of Raymond d'Aguilers, Peter Tudebode, The Gesta Version, and Anna Comnena), even including a few Arabic sources.  However, only buy this if you are a Crusade scholar, for the general reader it does get tedious very quickly.	2001-08-18
US	52891068	R2L6IV2V4CAI6E	060960581X	395300413	The Jesus Mysteries: Was the "Original Jesus" a Pagan God?	Books	4	21	23	N	N	Not as good or as bad as other reviews would suggest	A careful study of the gospels could lead anyone to conclude that they cannot be biographical, however there would seem to be no viable alternative to thinking they ultimately arise from the teachings of a real man.  This book is not one of history but of comparative mythology, and sets out an interesting thesis that is difficult to dismiss.  That is, that the figure of Jesus is an incarnation of the mythical dying and resurrected god figure that existed at the center of common pagan religion.  But the book might be less interesting if you know how they prove this, so I won't get into the arguments.  Some of its points are not surprising, and often there is no attempt to separate what are early parallels with paganism with later adoption of pagan ceremonies and dates to make Christianity more palatable.  It relies heavily on certain sources deemed more reliable and also on the genuine letters of Paul.  As such it can easily be dismissed by some as being selective in its evidence, and it still leaves the possibility that Jesus lived and was later equated with the pagan god.  Also at times they aren't entirely convincing and occasionally make sloppy arguments and weak associations.  The last fifty pages seem to be the weakest, when they attempt to reconstruct true history.  Always a difficult task, but it clearly is meant as an attack on the traditional Christian histories, and is not in any way meant to be balanced (since it is always uncovering the hypocrisy and degenerate nature of the early catholic Christianity while praising the pagans and Gnostics throughout), but they are not unreligious or hostile to religion and God.  The authors at least have made their point well and have done their best to provide evidence when they can, but on the very last page there is a statement that says \\"[the authors] are now offering lectures and seminars exploring the mystical Inner Mysteries of the ancient Pagans and the original Christians\\" which, together with their concludingchapter, suggests they are attempting to revive these ancient pagan rites in preparation for the age of Aquarius.  Its rating derives from the book itself, plus an additional star for how compelling it was to read.	2001-07-21
US	52891068	R2Z1B6DN2YVFHV	0345376595	691321715	Pale Blue Dot: A Vision of the Human Future in Space	Books	3	8	11	N	N	Pale	Mishmash of material lacks the scope and grandeur of Cosmos.  In effect it gives him an opportunity to catch up on about 15 years since Cosmos, but adds little beyond what was conveyed before.  And goes almost nowhere in making a good case for space exploration and a weaker one in support of his SETI project.  It hardly stands well on its own and even Sagan's usual comfortable style seems pale itself rather than stirring.  Not a failure as a book, but certainly not his best, and only for those who either like Sagan or want a survey of those years focussing on Sagan's ideas and contributions, which may not be fully objective or complete.  Get it at the library.  Both Cosmos and Demon-Haunted World are more worth reading.	2001-07-16
US	52891068	R3OHVEILEK91YR	0679781285	951460029	The Sibling Society: An Impassioned Call for the Rediscovery of Adulthood	Books	3	7	20	N	N	Fairy tale interpretations, entertaining but goes nowhere	One does not have to believe in a men's movement to read Robert Bly's Iron John, and having read it I thought I knew exactly where Bly would go with Sibling Society.  But after reading this book, I have begun to really question what Bly is trying to accomplish with his books.  He has gone from dealing with the issue of absent fathers to taking on all social problems (as though he at first thought applying what he presented in Iron John would provide the solution), causing his good-humored style to grow tense and anxious.  Iron John read like listening to someone who knew what you were facing and tried to bring some awareness of its common meaning.  This book appears to seem like listening to your grandfather telling you what's wrong with your generation, and he ultimately seems to imply TV and profit-driven advertising.  The rebel-without-a-cause rebellion has succeeded in pop culture, and adults and maturity are unwelcome.<br />But Bly is runing the risk of presenting a good analysis and a good remedy, but lacking a good fit between the two.  Is the problem simply our being overly preoccupied with the media (or is this only what one absorbs when one attempts to both understand and remedy society based on what the media dishes out)?  Is the problem fathers are at work all day or fathers who are absent completely (from divorce).  Do we solve the problems of divorce by introducing an initiation ritual for those affected?  Or is he now saying that the solution is no longer one created by the Industrial Revolution but from one that has arisen only in the last few decades?  In attempting to analyze social ills, he is over-extending his philosophy.  The book, however, is filled with absorbing pieces, but it never congeals to provide a genuine cause or solution.  The writing also fails sometimes when he assumes we know everything he does about poetry and such and so is too vague.	2001-07-16
US	52891068	R37INIPA5TVHCA	0415136113	747633545	Roles of the Northern Goddess	Books	3	12	18	N	N	Long and winding evidence to support goddess worship	The tenor of this book is one of attempting to peer through centuries of Christian influence to show what the religion of the goddess may have been like. But in almost every of its presentations often is too loose in character to be truly fulfilling and abounds in conditional statements. It probably fails most in how it presents the subject in categories and then presents examples from the observations and works of others in an attempt to bring things to light. In doing so it tends to lose your appreciateion of variation in perceptions over time and place, which is understandable due to the scarcity of hard and sure information. But then it is this lack of certainty that makes it a book of possitbilites rather than information. However, if it were not for the obvious continuation of goddess worship into the Christian age with the Virgin Mary, I might doubt that there were any widespread goddess cults simply from the arguments this book provides.<br />It might have been better to have divided the book up by region, rather as History of Pagan Europe does. Instead the dearth of hard evidence is supplemented by comparisons to notions of goddess worship much further south of north. At best it is a collection of what can be said in a scholarly manner, but is rather too dull of a presentation to be an exceptional read.	2001-07-16
US	52891068	RNFGPWYCE2NT0	0393045218	962003450	The Mummies of Urumchi	Books	4	24	26	N	N	Textile expert seeks answers about Caucasian migrations	A rather good look at a very interesting mystery of pre-historic European migrations.  Central to this has been the discovery of mummies some three to four-thousand years old who posses what is termed a \\"Caucasian\\" appearance, both biologically and culturally.  Elizabeth Barber is an expert on ancient textiles and the first part of this book, involved in a description of mummies' textiles (from observations made on a visit there) is in her element and makes what could have been a dreadfully tedious description quite lively.  It ends up being the best discussion in the book.  In fact I give this book an additional star over other scholarly books of this sort - rather bland usually - for causing me to read with deep interest page after page about what is really an analysis of textile stitching.  After describing the better-preserved mummies and analyzing their goods and textile weaves and patterns, she then approaches the whole question of their origins and especially in whether one can link this culture to the theoretical proto Indo-European language-speakers.  At this point there is an interesting but rather plainly-written collection of a good deal of information provided by explorers into the region, and comparisons to other cultures such as the Celts, and some linguistic analysis.  Although it kept my interest, the jumping between time, place and peoples could sometimes be confusing.  And I kept having to search through the maps to remember where we were in relation to where, as these parts of Asia are not very familiar to us.  It lacks at the end a good tie-up of loose ends or a summary, that seems required after such a lengthy heaping of theories.	2001-04-22
US	52891068	R3KNR96FBQOW2X	0345409469	137607328	The Demon-Haunted World: Science as a Candle in the Dark	Books	4	3	5	N	N	Essential treatise on skepticism for everyone.	When people are on a certain side of the fence, it is difficult to cross ranks.  This may be the book that does it (if not, nothing will).  Bringing together a collection of examples to illustrate a growing set of problems, Sagan shows a very impressive understanding in this book.  Starting with a very informed review of the belief in flying saucers and aliens from other worlds, sounds at first rather prosaic.  Certainly if you believe that beings from outer space have visited earth, you will dismiss his insistence upon evidence.  However, Sagan of any scientist would believe in aliens if there was any compelling evidence to do so.  His life has centered on an almost obsessive pursuit of life on other worlds, yet without proof then there is no justification.  Then he begins a very frightening summary of the propensity for abuses when people have no skeptical restraint, as illustrated in the witch trials and communist hearings.  How easily people can experience hallucinations, also how easily credulous people can be duped and are willing to allow themselves to be.  Then includes what is probably the most important segment in the book, a \\"baloney detection kit\\", which is a list of rules to prevent acquiring false beliefs.  He also describes how education in America is faltering and how Fredrick Douglass was able to rise beyond prejudice through reading and learning, thereby gaining freedom.  He shows how science works and sometimes when it has failed, but in few other fields can a single unknown overthrow a well-established theories and be expected to, if they have the proof and are competent in attaining it.  Certainly, he argues, we are free because of the awareness of human failures through protection of the Bill of Rights.  And sometimes includes excerpts of letter sent to him by people commenting on his statements, which are rather quite illustrative.  Of course, it was only until I was about half way through the book that I began to be skeptical of what Sagan was saying, yet having scientific training much of it was not difficult.  Certainly refute if you can, but try using his baloney detection kit against him and it will be difficult.  Although it seemed that it would have been sufficient simply to have gotten it at a library, since its not the sort of book I felt I would wish to read again.	2001-04-22
US	52891068	RCI9AL8QFJ714	0684844893	708330639	A Necessary Evil: A History of American Distrust of Government	Books	5	10	18	N	N	Brief but exact history and one very special voice of reason	Having run across this in a catalog, rather picking it on a whim, I was not able to stop reading this very well-approached historical analysis of our distrust of government.  Beginning with a study of Revolutionary War myths and concentrating thereafter on the continuing struggle of the Federalist and Anti-Federalist positions on the structure of government, Wills exposes the folly of those who oppose the constitutional government of the United States, who use the constitution as the basis for their beliefs.  Each and every point is made in a sound historical basis and throughout I attempted to find him falling into a Liberal stand, but always found it remained true to the facts and as such is a remarkable attempt to re-align thought with actual historical truth.  He goes on to study how the anti-federal trend has manifested itself by grouping them under such names as Nullifiers, Seceders, Insurrectionists, Vigilantes, Withdrawers, and Disobeyers.  Rarely would I give the highest rating to a recent non-classic book, but this is a book well worth reading.  On a shelf his book would sit juxtaposed to George Will's, but the similarity ends here.	2001-04-22
US	52891068	R1T7GU6NJNBJ1P	0345427718	250226497	Liberating Everyday Genius: A Revolutionary Guide for Identifying and Mastering Your Exceptional Gifts	Books	3	27	32	N	N	Self-help book to give gifted adults balance and outlook.	The book title might better have been \\"Liberating Everyday Genuises\\" as it really is only dealing with a specific sort of person she refers to as an Everyday Genius.  (The title probably arises from the publishers attempt to attain a borader market.)  And this might be a key issue, because although she clearly defines what an Everyday Genuis is and allows you to score yourself using the Evolutionary Intelligence Profile (EvIQ), it could be that anyone who read the book could be left convinced that they are one.  Scoring myself highly on the EvIQ, I then went on to find things that sounded like me and other things that didn't.  Or rather, were not necessarily the most obvious characteristics of being an Everyday Genius for me.  It also seemed to be speaking more clearly to female readers than male ones, possibly from the author's own experiences and self-understanding.<br />Having in part I defined what an Everyday Genius is and how many people grow up unaware of it, and also how standard intelligence measures may not measure it, she then presents in part II the EvIQ and then in part III details the sorts of issues that gifted adults face and how you can help to be true to yourself, removing the False Selves.  The only time I began to feel she lurched into common self-help drivel was in part IV and also the section that seemed to have changed focus from the topic into more general information.  Part V is rather like a summary and final motivation.<br />All in all, I know too much about the subject to think that approaching this from simply a self-help point of view is sufficient, for even though I ranked as being a balanced everyday genius, it does not prevent all sorts of difficulties because others have only so many slots to fit you in, and not knowing what you are force you into one you're not.  And society wants all your good qualities but aren't willing to tolerate the emotions and needs and love that go along with it, especially in the workplace.  It is ratherlike having them say to you that they want you to dance, but only if your legs are tied, because lack of understanding makes them mistrust.  There are so few people who are there when you need them to say, we accept you and release you.  This often leads to frustration and having a book about it at least gives one some inner security, but it is not nearly enough.<br />After I finished reading this book and started in on Thucydides, I came across a speech where a politician said \\"ordinary men usually manage public affairs better than their more gifted fellows.  The latter are always wanting to appear wiser than the laws\\".  Perhaps this is true, or maybe its because gifted people see where others do not see.<br />If you want to go one step further, in this book an Everyday Genuis is someone who often feels out of place in society because they are not ordinary, but there are also those who may feel accepted but still reject soceity to seek something transcendent.  There is a very interesting book on this called \\"The Outsider\\" by Colin Wilson.  It is much more profound.	2001-01-23
US	52891068	R1U9E5NA2QSGV0	0964963515	953733324	Laid Back in Hollywood: Remembering	Books	2	12	17	N	N	Brief and patchy recollections spend little time on movies	Not being partial to reading Hollywood memoirs, I am left with no basis for comparison.  The only interest I had in this book was that for a while she was my favorite actress and at first was thrilled to find this book.  The lens, however, is not so much on Hollywood as it is on the more personal impressions of a person remembering and commenting on her past.  Divided in two, between the first part, \\"The Living was Easy\\" covering from her early years through the apex of her career during the 50's in the first 75 pages, then meeting Joseph Cotton and stories from her marriage another 90 pages.  The second part, \\"Only When I Cry\\", the last 50 pages, details his illness and ends with his passing.  Reads like it could have been a novel, if it were fleshed out, sometimes it reads as if your sitting and hearing quick stories from your grandmother over tea.  Sometimes an obscurity isn't explained or a commonplace reported.  The friends enter and exit like any friends, but they have names like David Niven or Jennifer Jones.  It's a difficult book to rate, and it would have been nice if it had been a picture book because she is very lovely, possessing Hollywood's most beautiful shoulders.  Her own character arises from this as a timid tempest and the admiration and love she has for her husband Joseph Cotton is boundless.  I always know a good book because I read it quickly, but if it takes 8 months to get through a 220 page book, I can only recommend it for those who have an interest in either of the two actors.  The title no doubt arises from a publisher's wish to give the work a slant; this actress never got the film she needed to launch herself into the list of Hollywood icons.	2000-12-14
US	52891068	R341MSJ1IG7GMK	0140441824	961689350	Procopius: The Secret History (Penguin Classics)	Books	3	6	13	N	N	Incident after incident not fit for official history.	More or less an accumulation of incidents describing the villainy in the reign of Byzantine Emperor Justinian in the fifth century.  Quite a bit of it the result of his decadent queen Theodora's whims.  Only struck me as a  good wake up call for those who would exaggerate the matters of Bill and  Hillary or the problems of popular democracy.  It shows we've come a long  way.  Otherwise, it presents event after event to prove that Justinian was  a demonic creature who allowed these atrocities to go unchecked or  encouraged criminal activity throughout the Empire, in addition to their  own personal conduct.  As it is, I find it very difficult to believe that  this history is unreliable, and certainly the final sentence of the book  seems to prove that he left instructions that it be published only after  Justinian's death.  As for reading it, it soon begins to sound fairly  redundant and should be taken as a work of interest to those who like  delving into interests during a dark time in the Christian Empire, but  although I expected to be shocked by what I read, neither the language nor  incidents seemed as shocking as the author seemed to suppose, at least  given what we have seen in the world during the 20th century.  But it is a  real example of the abuse of power.	2000-04-06
US	52891068	RWIDYXQV881FA	0881847046	267464313	Beyond the Outsider	Books	4	10	11	N	N	Last of series tries to elucidate the new existentialism.	Supposed sixth book in a series, I had no problem reading this after only reading the first book of the series, but definitely read The Outsider first.  The series deals with a world that cannot accept religious  approaches from a superstitious past and seeks a new meaning for mankind.   My opinion was that this was not as good as The Outsider, mostly because it  reads more like a dry philosophical summary and discussion than an inspired  holistic analysis.  It speaks somewhat of the dual nature of mankind's  perception and how recognizing this allows us to take the next step with is  the path to our own evolution.  Provides a discussion of the development of  Romantic and Existential philosophies, to show how concepts have been  revealed or failed through the last hundred years or so (from when the book  was written in 1965).  Seems to jump around and present aspects of thought  in a manner that made it read like a mental zig zag.  Briefly the  \\"immediate perception\\" that is the basis of scientific investigation is  only half of it, the other being \\"meaning perception\\".  And one way he  introduces (via Huxley and Sartre) to open the western mind to the concept  of meaning perception is the taking of mescalin (a drug that actually seems  to confuse perceptions, as I see it, rather than awaken them, but this book  was a product of the sixties).  Anything that gets man to understand his  role is not passive but active, then Wilson gets to a, sort of, ultimate  answer that was not totally clear after one reading, except it converged  upon man's design of his own evolution.  The book attempts to cover only  some main concepts but does so in a flurry of references and odd phrases  (like describing a concept as the 'St. Neots margin' or 'old woman in a  vinegar bottle').  You may have to be farmiliar with at least the more  notable Romantic and Existential philosophers to really appreciate his  presentation.  I have enjoyed reading Colin Wilson's books.	2000-04-06
US	52891068	R33PNJJVEH2FM5	0684833328	338713165	The Moral Sense (Free Press Paperback)	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Discusses studies on innate beneficial behaviors.	Wilson focuses on the innate senses of sympathy, fairness, self-control, and duty that rise beyond what we are simply taught.  Indeed, it appears that he has zeroed in on the morality most people act upon, instead of the  moral codes that we think we follow.  Often these senses live side-by-side  with the other hostile senses we also posess.  Covers a wide range of  issues, but I read it too long ago to recall any more.  The other chapters  focus on the sources of these sentiments: social animal, families, gender,  and universal aspiration.	2000-02-01
US	52891068	R21A02PQKZWU2X	0300017111	536932116	The Literature of Ancient Egypt: An Anthology of Stories, Instructions, and Poetry,	Books	3	7	21	N	N	Collection from Old, Middle and New Kingdoms.	I should say that the edition that I bought only last year, the new edition, is from 1973 and may not be exactly like the revised edition.  My interest in these writings arose from an understanding that they had a not  intangible effect on Biblical literature.  But although I feel bad giving  this book only 3 stars I should explain that there are reasons for this.   First is that many of the stories, etc. are fragmentary or missing the  entire beginning, end or both.  If they were all complete it would get at  least 4.  The other reason is the often obscure quality of the readings,  which is purely a function of our not getting enough exposure to books like  this.  Mostly if the story was complete, it was very enjoyable, but if  broken up and missing parts, it seemed useless to the general reader.  So I  cannot say that the low rating is due in any way to the fault of the  editors or translators.  Other than that it was a charming array of tales  and advice that is every bit as good as Biblical literature.	2000-02-01
US	52891068	R3CNZR2UZ8XRLZ	0140440070	356515104	The Persian Expedition (Penguin Classics)	Books	4	10	15	N	N	Warfare during classical age of Greece comes to life.	This historical book deals with a group of Greek mercenaries who are hired to fight a war in Persia as one brother, Cyrus, builds an army to take the kingdom from his brother, Artaxerxes, around 400 BC.  Although Xenophon's  histories are really memoirs from his own experience, there are probably  many errors in proportion but no errors in flavor.  And this is a good  account of how battles were fought and how armies worked at this time.   Provides a good fill between the end of the Peloponesian War and Alexander  the Great.  Typically straight-forward reading, although it is sometimes  difficult to keep track of the men, especially if you put the book down for  a few days.  But a Glossary is provided for just this problem as is a map  so you can follow their movements.  Overall good if you are interested in  the history of war or Ancient Greece and Persia.  It's only real fault is  that it starts to drag towards the end.  Deserves three and a half stars  for how it reads.  Historically it's a gem.	2000-02-01
US	52891068	R2JCA95F83WKJL	0963789740	938957606	The Wisdom of Human Kind	Books	5	10	11	N	N	Tolstoy's capstone achievement of unified religious thought.	Tolstoy (known today only for his novels) attempted to complete his philosophical conceptions by unifying the basic moral conceptions of all religions and this is a condensed (and more manageable) form of his final  work.  Although emphasising pure Christianity it also blends this with  traditional eastern concepts and creates a good complete summary of proper  moral behavior.  He seems also to convey a certain passion and love, giving  the book a spirited tone.  It preaches non-violence and even vegetarianism.   I was surprised to learn that Tolstoy's ideas were much regarded 100 years  ago and even were an inspiration for Ghandi.  Depending on your background  in world religions, the contents may or may not provide you with any new  knowledge.  It is certainly not out of date or only for readers of  Tolstoy's novels.  Five stars, although there may be better books out there  (?).	1999-11-27
US	52891068	R3DUTWDSBQH7O3	0393317552	733405472	Guns, Germs, and Steel: The Fates of Human Societies	Books	4	5	7	N	N	Engrossing historical analysis that leaves you rethinking.	Good analysis gets beyond proximate causes and into the actual causes for general technological development.  It's presentation is balanced and reasonable not fanatical or political.  Centered on the attempt to answer  the question about the conquest of the New World by the Old, as opposed to  the other way around.  Primarily focussed on the presense of raw animal and  plant materials for the development of domestication.  But overall provides  a fairly lucid presentation of human history before writing, which is  typically inadequately dealt with in history books.  For me, the only thing  I didn't like was the title.  The best pre-historical history book I have  read.  One apparent lacunae to me was neglecting the effect of the  Mediterranean on the development of Southern Europe and North Africa.  The  Third Chimpanzee is also as good, but focusses instead on human  development.  Both are enjoyable.	1999-11-22
US	52891068	RMM0GR847ELD6	0874772060	906842881	The Outsider	Books	4	37	40	N	N	The most profound book that I have yet read.  Excellent.	An attempt by the author to get behind the expressions of what he terms outsiders, but in reality are people who attempt to break free from society's constraints and illusions.  Rather like the attempt to transform  one's life from a catarpillar into a butterfly.  Where most people never  get beyond the catarpillar stage.  Explains the real struggle of those who  can no longer accept deception and attempt to seek personal unification,  revealing what many great works of art, poetry, and literature attempt to  express.  The Outsider is the visionary beneficiary when he/she succeeds,  but a terrible burden if he/she fails.  What the Outsider brings is  transcendence from ordinary existence and ultimately is the supreme  paragon, and the prophet.  Primarily a literative study, with a discussion  of such as H.G. Wells, Hemmingway, Dostoevsky, and Tosltoy, it also studies  others such as Van Gogh and T.E. Lawrence, and the usual philosophers  Nietzsche and Kierkagaard.  The message is that prophets, who are those who  understand the unpleasant truth for the good of all, are also the most  persecuted and misunderstood.  It occurred to me that this may have  provided philosophical source material for the explosive 60's TV series  &quot;The Prisoner&quot;.  Four stars because it's not for everyone.	1999-11-21
US	52891068	RRSQU4KCY0F12	0060984031	794982372	Third Chimpanzee, The	Books	4	26	29	N	N	Fine summary and speculation about origins of human nature.	I bought this book because I liked &quot;Guns, Germs, andSteel&quot; and was not disappointed.  Although there may be booksthat are just as good, the author is not be too close to the theories he's talking about, is balanced, and puts things in perspective.  In addition, he provides a great deal of first-hand knowledge from his extensive time in New Guinea.  Discusses human evolution, sexuality, language, and vices.  Challenges the idea of primitive human's being in harmony with nature, and ends on a conservationist note about endangered species, even providing lists of environmental groups at the end!  Still, I will not deny his approach or cause for concern. Very enjoyable reading overall, and only loses steam in the inadequate explanations given in &quot;Why Do We Smoke, Drink, and Use Dangerous Drugs?&quot; but also speaks profoundly about the prevalence of genocide in &quot;In Black and White&quot;.  This is not bland anthropology.	1999-11-21
US	52891068	R2KPKZYQ0MAJJP	014043593X	215075639	The Saga of King Hrolf Kraki (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	8	9	N	N	One of the most adventurous sagas I have read.	Hrolf's Saga is written in a style that most closely resembles Saga of the Volsungs about Sigurd the Dragon Slayer (the source of the Wagner opera).   Although difficult to summarize, this saga set in Denmark has better  characters and pacing than the longer ones set in Iceland (Njal's Saga,  Laxdaela Saga, Egil's Saga, Eyrbyggja Saga) and the story possibly dates  back to the 6th century AD.  It is also noted that it shares some kinship  with Beowulf.  Although only 78 pages, the story moves quickly and is a  good trial book for those who have never read an Icelandic Saga before.  As  with the other sagas was written in the Christian era, in the 14th century,  but still remembers older traditions.	1999-10-26
US	52891068	R1HTVO09IV5AJ5	0674993853	119062769	Manetho: History of Egypt and Other Works (Loeb Classical Library No. 350)	Books	3	21	27	N	N	Extracts from other writers tries to reconstruct Manetho	This is probably better for scholars than for the general reader.  Manetho lived during the third century BC and wrote of ancient Egyptian history  spanning 30 dynasties to the age of Alexander.  But since the original has  not survived, this attempts to reconstruct what Manetho may have been, but  does so with three variants of his &quot;History of Egypt&quot;, two are  quoted from Syncellus who quotes from Ersebius and Africanus who quote from  Manetho.  These amount to lists of dynastic ages, showing - one after the  other - how the sources record each (which are not identical).  Also  interspersed with probably corrupt versions of Manetho quoted by Josephus.   Including confusing footnotes throughout.  Also attempts to reconstruct  &quot;The Sacred Book&quot;, &quot;An Epitome of Physical Doctrines&quot;,  &quot;On Festivals&quot;, &quot;On Ancient Ritual and Religion&quot;, and  &quot;On the Making of Kyphi&quot;, in addition to a further appendix.   Overall, the results are unimpressive and lack any attraction as  literature.  Of its 250 pages every other is in Greek.  Includes one map of  the Nile valley.	1999-10-25
US	52891068	R2W1O2Q9EG6VAC	0486280993	133412811	Magellan's Voyage : A Narrative Account of the First Circumnavigation	Books	3	25	26	N	N	Main surviving account of first circumnavigation of globe	This is an amazing detalied account written by one of the men who sailed on Magellan's voyage to the spice island of Molucca (1519-1521). This is also the principal first-hand source that we have today.  Good in its  descriptions of actions and thorough, all things considered, in  anthopological details. It reads somewhat more like a log than a story.   The translator fails sometimes to explain enigmatic wording, which is not  easily conveyed to a modern reader, and expends a great number of the  footnotes pointing out differences between this translation of the French  MS and the Italian MS which may have better been executed with brackets.   However, it is a difficult book to give a star-rating to.  Even with the  tremendous significance of the voyage that led to the first  circumnavigation of the globe, and the details including collections of  native words, I found this book lacked grip as a reading experience.  For  what amounts to only about 100 pages, I found it work to get through a  couple chapters in a day.  48 chapters total, and 28 black and white maps  from the French edition.  But don't let this impression stear you away if  you have a genuine interest in the event.  This is the book to get for  that.	1999-09-30
US	52891068	R39ASZ7YFDT8BO	0486235009	830518787	The Discovery of the Tomb of Tutankhamen (Egypt)	Books	4	20	21	N	N	See the discovery through the eyes of its discoverers.	This book is not simply a description of the tomb or complicated archeological jargon, but was written to inform the curious while the tomb was being cleared.  It still contains a sense of currency that captures a  rare event in recovering the past.  Starting with a biography of Lord  Carnarvon who financed the expedition, then goes on to describe in  subsequent chapters what they knew of King Tut at the time, and the  background of the Valley of the Kings and a discussion on the theft of  antiquities.  Then about half way through begins the story of Carter's  involvement.  With a combination of the words and pictures it is possible  to get a glimmer of what events were like for them.  Even to his irksome  view of people who interrupted the work by insisting upon a tour of the  tomb, or his peevish rebuttal against those who consider an archeologists  work akin to a day at the beach.  Anyway, through it all it is an engaging  book.  Includes 105 photographs, however in black and white.  It should be  known that this account is not of the complete find and primarily concerns  finds in the Antechamber, and not the Annex or Shrine.  Still, the book is  titled the &quot;Discovery&quot; so this should not come as a surprise.	1999-09-20
US	52891068	R7FC486ZQ6NFQ	014044517X	919994894	Conversations of Socrates (Penguin Classics)	Books	4	27	31	N	N	The second complete account of Socrates to survive.	More on Socrates, especially for those who wish to know more after having exhausted Plato (which is no simple task).  Only gets four stars because it comes across as being slightly less powerful than Plato, although, contrary  to the translators opinion, appears to portray the historical Socrates more  accurately (except for the final dialogue).  Socrates' Defense presents the  only other complete account of his trial, Memoirs of Socrates is a  collection, The Dinner Party is about the notion of love, and Estate  Manager is a dialogue about managing an estate.  I have always find the  presentation of dialogue preferable to essay (as in Plutarch).	1999-08-30
US	52891068	R2BG28D4MULDG3	0812564839	861735579	The Lost World (Tor Classics)	Books	3	3	6	N	N	Light adventure novel about a mysterious plateau land	This enjoyable novel led to the silent movie, and is similar to it in much the same way as Jurassic Park was to its movie. That is, they are a bit different, although the basic outline and characters are the same. The  scientific claims of a Professor Challenger as to the existence of a land  sporting unusual fauna is challanged by the London Zoological Institute who  send an investigating expedition to the plateau. As for the insitute, there  is a fair amount of passion for science and opinion, which seems  unrealistic today. Shouting down, rioting, etc. The story is told as a  narrative by a journalist who goes on the expedition because of his  girlfriend. There is much less emphasis on dinosaurs than one would think,  and does not have the gripping quality of Jurassic Park. But it probably  deserves a 3 1/2 star rating.	1999-08-20
US	52891068	R144FOUDB9WYGS	0465006221	638441667	The Mythic Past: Biblical Archaeology And The Myth Of Israel (British Commonwealth, United States, United Nations, 1993)	Books	3	40	43	N	N	Seeks to reveal the Bible as it was understood then	The book assembles a collection of arguments that compare the past portrayed by the Bible against historical fact, and in doing so reveals that it is misleading to view the Bible as history, or that its purpose was ever to be historical. The book convinced me that most of what I believed  to be true was understood as mythological at the time of the Bible's  writing. Even showing how the original mythical meaning of the garden story  was changed during the Middle Ages to the one generally held today. And  although the argument that the Bible was a late development seems rather  pretentious, he also suggests that the traditions that the Bible drew upon  understood events from the past, but that it is difficult to extract  history from myth. Both the New and Old Testaments are discussed, including  parallel metaphors in each. But the main message is that if the Bible is  viewed as history, its true meaning is no longer understood from its  symbolism, which is at the heart of understanding the Bible's theology.   Although much more interesting at first, this book could have been 100  pages shorter without any real loss. Another book that tries to explain the  source of the myths used to create the Bible is &quot;The Bible Myth&quot;  by Gary Greenberg.	1999-08-19
US	52891068	R34MZDESQTJ2OW	0806519703	846911550	The Bible Myth: The African Origins of the Jewish People	Books	3	23	29	N	N	Parallels myths of ancient Israel with those of Egypt.	The author approaches histhesis from two directions. First by matching Egyptian dates with chronologies of the Bible, in an exercise that often appears to be tenuous and exhaustive. But combined with the much more  intriguing second half of the book, which deals with comparative mythology,  creates a very convincing point of approach for understanding the source of  Biblical myths. By the end, I was glad I read this book.	1999-08-19
US	52891068	R38IRUSMB5TAK1	0312219237	332127254	Atlantis: The Andes Solution: The Discovery of South America as the Legendary Continent of Atlantis	Books	3	6	7	N	N	New theory best fits Plato's description of Atlantis.	Rogue, J. M. Allen, has brought this book forward to offer yet another historical explanation to the Atlantis legend.  Although the book is brief and occasionally garbled, he presents a wonderful and exciting new theory,  about a subject anathema to archeology.  The book goes from the description  of the site in Peru to specific links between a pre-Inca Andean polulation  and Atlantis.  Even showing how Andes, a corruption of Antis (copper), can  with Atl (water) even provides the name Atl-Antis (copper water).   Occasionally lack of exact correspondence to Plato's account and necessary  corrections sometimes creep in, yet if Plato's account is true, this seems  the most likely site to date for its location, and this book is only the  beginning.  Contains several arial and satellite maps, and several pages of  color photos, although curiously none are referred to in the text.  Rating  of book does not reflect the subject but simply my impression on the  reading experience.	1999-05-31
US	52891068	R2E36SYGC50YRP	0292755597	216653473	Narrative of the Incas	Books	4	18	19	N	N	History and Conquest of Peru from Inca point of view.	Account translated from a manuscript that was only discovered in the 80's. It records the descent of the Incas from the creation of the world through the conquest by the Spaniards. The focus is kept on the Inca's (kings) and  their ceremonies and conquests from one of their descendents (whom the  author used as his source), who also lived through the conquest. This is a  good book to read after reading Discovery and Conquest of Peru, recently  published, since you get behind the thoughts of the Spanish in the one and  the Incas in the other. In this case we get those first impressions the  natives had when they first encountered the Spanish and their horses.   Contains maps, illustrations, and glossary.	1999-04-12
US	52891068	RXB3DGATL12EW	0822321467	172820373	The Discovery and Conquest of Peru (Latin America in Translation)	Books	4	29	31	N	N	Detailed and balanced account of Spanish occupation of Peru	This work is actually part 3 in the series of volumes written by the author, who wrote about the events of the Spanish conquest of Peru soon after they occurred.  This part 3 was never published and only discovered  in the 70's.  It comes across as a well-balanced presentation of events as  the partners of Francisco Pizzaro and Diego de Almegro search for and  discover the Inca civilization in the Andean region of South America.   Detailed and easy to read and understand, the author himself was not  involved in the events but was able to speak with men still living from  those times and understand it by recollecting of his own experiences.  The  book contains notes at the end of each chapter, some illustrations, maps,  and a glossary.  I found this work compelling, but its rating arises  because it did not reach the level of some other conquest stories, such as  D and C of Mexico, De Vaca, or La Florida (available in De Soto  Chronicles).  But is the only thorough account of the Peruvian conquest I  am aware of apart from that of Pedro Pizarro.  Another recently uncovered  work, Narrative of the Incas, tells of events from the Inca's perspective.	1999-04-12
US	52891068	R18HL2Y10IROH4	0140445641	552269618	Essays (Penguin Classics)	Books	4	31	32	N	N	Selection of philosophical writing from first century Greece	This book comprises a selection of essays from the body of Plutarch's work collectively referred to as Moralia.  Within he expounds on various topics often relying on quotes from writings he was farmiliar with, and very often  misquoting because he relied on his memory too often.  Contains essays 'On  Listening', 'How to Distinguish a Flatterer from a Friend', 'On Being Aware  of Moral Progress', 'Whether Military or Intellectual Exploits have brought  Athens more Fame', 'On the Avoidance of Anger', 'On Contentment', 'On God's  Slowness to Punish', 'On Socrates' Personal Deity', 'In Consolation to His  Wife', and 'On the Use of Reason by Irrational Animals' (which relies on a  dialogue between Odysseus and a human-turned-pig).  I found these were  probably not up to Plato, but were also much more popular once than they  are today.  Each essay has its own introduction and numerous footnotes.	1999-04-02
US	52891068	RH38NGX9PRUR6	0486263088	200556333	The Journey of Coronado (Dover Books on Travel, Adventure)	Books	3	11	11	N	N	Collection of narratives from search for fabled Seven Cities	Contains the main narrative of the Coronado expedition by Pedro de Castaneda, who was one of the soldiers on the expedition and wished to separate the stories being told from what really took place. The Seven  Cities were supposedly a kingdom of riches and on the word of a friar an  expedition was launched to seek them out and this relates what they went  through, albeit very briefly.  Also includes other letters and shorter  accounts that all tell about the same story. Gets a lower rating than it  probably should because I found the translation did not flow easily.  It is  also not nearly on par with the much more vivid accounts such as Conquest  of New Spain about Cortez, the Relacion of Cabeza de Vaca, or La Florida  about De Soto.  Contains no maps but a great deal of endnotes.	1999-03-08
US	52891068	R33TTPJ134N2QN	0345383249	760372128	Eaters of the Dead: The Manuscript of Ibn Fadlan, Relating His Experiences With the Northmen in A.D. 922	Books	3	1	2	N	N	Fictional prose re-telling of epic poem Beowulf	The author here has accomplished a convincing fraud for the unwary reader.  Eaters of the Dead purports to be \\"The Manuscript of Ibn Fadlan, Relating His Experiences with the Northmen in A.D. 922\\".  And so the introduction,  bracketed inserts, footnotes, appendix, and bibliography would have you  believe this book was compiled from other fragmentary manuscripts that the  author had pieced together into a seamless whole.  Wrong!  In reality it is  a fictional novel, based on the epic poem Beowulf, the origin of which he  explains only at the very end.  If it were a novel it could probably have  been done better.  Still it was thoroughly convincing for what it professed  to be and learning it was fictional only created the greatest  disappointment I've ever felt after reading a book, making me want to throw  it into the nearest waste basket.  Even so, it does contain plenty of  accurate details about the Viking way of life as any historically based  novel should attempt to do, but I'm sure much of its fascination will be  lost if you know beforehand that it is mostly of the author's imagination.   The story concerns a kingdom that is being assailed by an attacking hoard.   Buliwyf and his warriors attempt to fend off the mist monsters who are the  eaters of the dead.  By the way there was a real Arab named Ibn Fadlan who  did spend time amidst the Vikings and the first three chapters of this  novel borrow heavily from his actual manuscript.	1999-01-09
US	52891068	R744BXF8QMMFE	006016848X	587492563	Men Are from Mars, Women Are from Venus: A Practical Guide for Improving Communication and Getting What You Want in Your Relationships	Books	2	18	23	N	N	popular mall book teaches how to overcome marriage pitfalls	May better have been called \\"John Gray is from Mars, and his wife is from Venus.  Maybe it's the same with you\\", since it appears more based on personal experience than on exhaustive research.  Obviously Dr. Gray was  once himself a self-centered, success-oriented, and sometimes obsessive  individual and wrongly attributes some of it to being a man.  His wife  appears to have been the one who broke the barrier and provided him with a  revelation that inspired the book.  The book is by and large slim on  content; each chapter expresses a single thought in as many different ways  as he can to fill it out.  Perhaps a good book for people who don't have  any real problems, but simply get on each others nerves.  It seems best  suited for educated professionals who have little time for each other,  misplaced priorities, and are sometimes confused or resentful.  It should  not, however, be used as a guide for understanding differences between men  and women.  On the whole it is a tiresome, over-written book to have to  plod through, unless of course it is helpful to you.  Some useful and  positive, but heavily diluted and sometimes oversimplified information  gives this book the rating it gets.	1998-12-13
US	52891068	R3VLA1VJZFA9M2	0684812975	278933018	Sailing to Paradise: The Discovery of the Americas by 7000 B. C.	Books	4	19	21	N	N	This book requires a bit of explaination	It surprises me that it is necessary to argue whether or not Columbus discovered the Americas.  But whatever you call it, Columbus transformed the world by what he did.  Even so, Sailing to Paradise presents a case for  not even the odd visit before Columbus but of a substantial intercourse  between the two hemispheres during the Bronze Age.  Very much like Ignatius  Donnelly's Atlantis for today (although one to be taken seriously), this  book compiles all the evidence of pre-Columbian contact.<br />The thesis is  this:  tin and copper, needed in to make bronze, only existed in sufficient  quantities in America.  (The source is otherwise a mystery.)  Trade was  carried out and the metals (and religions) transported to the Middle East  by the sea people, Atlas people or Phoenicians, and distributed.  (It gets  very complex.)  Even megalithic stones, like Stonehenge, were built for  navigation to America.  When iron surpassed bronze, trade ended and so did  commerce, except in small numbers.  It also presents evidence of  significant interaction between America and India.<br />Presents many solid  foundations for the approach to understanding history, but although  sometimes convincing in its arguments, it often inserts any scrap to prove  a point, firm or flimsy, and often requires leaps of faith on short  evidence.  Interprets almost all stories (myths, Bibles, hearsay) as  relating to his thesis.  At one turn saying that one thing can be taken  literally, but that another must be substantially re-interpreted in order  to fit it well into the picture of the Bronze-Age world he describes.  Yet  the only real incredible thing to accept is that every mystery is explained  by this one idea.  <br />Still it is thought-provoking and self critical  enough to be taken for serious consideration.  Most things before 500 years  ago are sketchy and always open to some debate.  The further in the past  the more this is true.  In this sense, we are blinded by a lack of writtensources, yet his argument is that this book is only to establish a basis  from which to focus archaeological study.  Which is true since what is  provided as evidence is still too circumstantial, even if I agree with much  of what he says (even if not the broad thesis).<br />As for how the book is  put together, things are often referred to casually, such as places,  expecting the reader, apparently academics, to follow his line.  So this  book may not be easily understood by a general reader, since he is clearly  presenting this theory in the line of an academic argument.  Of trivial  note, although there are many illustrations, one irritation was that they  don't follow the text.  You have to continually hunt around for them.  So  read this book, if this sort of historical debate or theories about  Atlantis (America?) are of interest to you.	1998-11-06
US	52891068	RYA90JAZII0GY	0395859964	359077660	The Journals of Lewis and Clark (Lewis & Clark Expedition)	Books	5	19	21	N	N	One great American story	Fascinating personal day-by-day account of the journey of Lewis and Clark through the Louisiana Territory.  As you read, you feel yourself slowly seeing the American west as it was seen by those who first wrote of its  magnificence, the customs of the natives, the wildlife, and climate.  You  see it for what it was, and for its possibilities.  This edition has been  edited from the individual journals of both Lewis and Clark and some of the  others.  It has been made more compact by putting in only passages that  tell the story, but with no sentence restructuring or spelling corrections.   Sometimes this requires you to figure the meaning out, but is never a big  problem.  The chapter length was perfect for reading a chapter a day which  means 33 days.  The only bad chapter was 31, which was a summary of one leg  lifted from DeVoto's The Course of Empire, which I felt was harder to  understand than the journals.  The appendix includes Jefferson's  Instructions, list of personnel, and specimens returned.	1998-11-01
US	52891068	RK3MYH6Q628WH	055356983X	160233701	Anne Frank's Tales from the Secret Annex	Books	1	5	15	N	N	Unimpressive collection of lesser writings	Short, 150 pages, but awfully tiresome.  I got this book off the Amazon  recommendations after I had ordered the diary, expecting to find further  writings that would be as engrossing as her wonderfully touching diary.   The first part of the book collects Anne Frank's short stories and seem  typical of a gifted writer of her age, centered around the thoughts and  ideas of girls at that age.  The second part collects some of the essays  she wrote about her life.  Unable to hold a torch to the diary, its only  glimmer lies in some eviscerated diary entries.  Unless you are a genuine  devotee of Anne Frank, this has little to offer.	1998-10-31
US	52891068	R28JMT8NKKZ3ND	0852246234	990605927	Vikings in Russia: Yngvar's Saga and Eymund's Saga	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Two legendary sagas of Viking travel into Russia around 1015	Expensive little book runs just 102 pages: 25 pages for Yngvar's Saga and  20 for Eymund's Saga.  The rest of the book comprises a lengtly  introduction and a collected glossary of Icelandic Sagas.  Both saga's  relate stories of forays into Russia in an economy of style that makes them  quick and easy to follow.  Interesting, but probably hardly historical,  they are filled with some true references but much embellishment by the  storytellers (not the translators).  Yngvar's Saga reminded me of a kind of  Argonautica (Jason and the Golden Fleece) as Yngvar searches for the source  of a river, while Eydmund's speaks instead of Vikings acting as a mercenary  army for Russian Kings.  Unlike some other sagas, these would have  benefitted from being more fleshed out.	1998-10-31
US	52891068	R16RMAZ0SSH2JW	0140441034	263160544	Njal's Saga (Classics)	Books	4	11	12	N	N	One of the greater sagas about Icelandic events around 1000	376 pages.  This saga spans that period that many of the saga's do,  skirting around the year 1000 when Christianity was adopted in Iceland by  decree.  Starting before this transition, the saga tells the story of a  beautiful yet spiteful woman, Hallgerd, whose nature begins a feud that  burns for several decades between the Sigfussons and Njalssons.  Njal  himself being a man of law who has a close friendship with Gunnar  (Hallgerd's husband) and finds himself caught up in events as they develop.   I have read that this is the most highly regarded of Icelandic saga  literature.  At least a hundred pages more than other sagas, it verges on  straining the limits of saga readability.  The first quarter is paced as  well as any saga, but it seemed to get sluggish in the second quarter,  regaining its former pace in the third quarter, and showing the best in  saga writing only into the last quarter of the book.  It may not be right  reading for you unless you are entranced by saga reading, or possibly would  make good reading for lawyers due to its portrayal of early law.  Snorri  the Priest, who appears in this saga, factors highly in Eyrbyggja Saga.  As  usual with Penguin, they include geneologies of the characters involved, a  glossary of names (very helpful) and two maps of Iceland.	1998-10-13
US	52891068	R3SZMR4OUKRU1D	0817308245	350221572	The De Soto Chronicles: The Expedition of Hernando de Soto to North America in 1539-1543 (Two Volume Set)	Books	5	27	28	N	N	Volume II:  De Soto chronicle La Florida is second to Diaz	This work is a complete collection of chronicles for the De Soto  expedition into La Florida (which is most of the south-east USA).  Due to  the fact that this work comprises two volumes of almost 600 pages each, I  have so far only read volume II which is the complete account &quot;La  Florida&quot; by Garcilaso de la Vega.  Following others (including the  Narvaez expedition that de Vaca relates) De Soto went into Florida to find  gold and eventually settle the new land.  Garcilaso used one captain from  the expedition as his source and is a great storyteller, claiming his  abhorrence of exaggerating the contents, much of it is told with the heroic  chivalry and noble virtue of the times, whether speaking of Spaniards or  Indians, and always some purposeful enthusiasm.  If all you know of De Soto  is that he was the first to see the Mississippi, that doesn't begin to say  anything about what happens during the expedition, and even to the way  those who were on it considered it afterwards.  It shows also the real  nature of the natives, showing great differences in their treatment of the  Spanish, their use of slavery, and the brutatilty they showed towards other  tribes. (Not as placid as Las Casas would have you believe).  Also  describing the native cultures and life-styles to some degree.  All  wonderful and interesting stories.  The volumes contain some maps and black  and white illustrations.  Volume I contains all the other existant accounts  including the more historical one by the Gentleman of Elvas.  Well worth  the price.	1998-09-12
US	52891068	R1DBWV81XZJBPA	0140445625	977366519	A Short Account of the Destruction of the Indies	Books	4	17	20	N	N	Dominican monk writes in 1542 of atrocities in the New World	Fifty years after Columbus found this world, a friar had witnessed himself  and heard from others about the true nature of the conquest.  Greed for  gold and slaves under the name of Christianity and the Spanish soveriegn.   If the Journal of Columbus begins the story, this could be its conclusion,  (although he did write a longer History of the Indies after this brief  one).  Any romantic ideas about the conquest will be wiped out after  reading this.  Probably the most horrific view of the conquest, it  summarizes the suffering of native victims at the hands of both Spaniard  and German conquerers until that time.  It fails to some extent by lumping  men of conquest with those who showed criminal madness, although this was  often true as well.  And he makes no mention of how many of the deaths he  tallys were due to disease and not direct butchery.  In the history of the  discovery this work tells the story of the losers, whose suffering and  shameful deaths would otherwise have remained silent (even better in this  regard than The Broken Spears).  Contains engraved illustrations from a  17th century edition.	1998-09-01
US	52891068	R6M3EGVYVYZ9E	0801841119	817812160	Eclogues and Georgics of Virgil	Books	2	30	30	N	N	Strange adapted translations of Virgil's poems.	I only read Georgics in this book, but I'm not sure what to make of it.   To give you an idea, here is how Georgics starts in another version: What  makes the corncrops glad, under which star to turn the soil, Maecanas, and  wed your vines to elms, the care of cattle, keeping of flocks, all the  experience thrifty bees demand - such are the themes of my song.<br />Compared  to how it begins in this translation: Okay, Maecenas, whatever you say;  farming it is; hints for happier cornfields, &quot;The Compleat Plowman's  Calendar&quot;; &quot;Your Vines and Mine&quot;; something on flocks -  &quot;Herding Together,&quot; or &quot;How Now, a Cow&quot;; and &quot;Bees  in Your Bonnet&quot; or maybe &quot;Going Apiary.&quot;<br />You get the idea.   Not recommended for seekers of a proximity to Virgil's original.  That is  why this gets the rating it does.  Certainly influenced because it was  translated in 1971 the work is punctuated with four-letter words.  However,  it might get another star if it were consistent since it is often very  poetic, and might get even a further star if it were titled &quot;Ecolgues  &amp; Georgics of Slavitt&quot;.  The best translation I've heard was done  by C. Day Lewis that I have on record, but as far as I know is not in  print.	1998-08-23
US	52891068	R3GXWZDW9TPNT3	1558850600	680563008	The Account: Alvar Nunez Cabeza de Vaca's Relacion (Recovering the Us Hispanic Literary Heritage)	Books	5	21	23	N	N	Very Good translation of Cabeza de Vaca's Relacion	Most recent translation by the US Hispanic Literary Heritage.  This story  is one of the most important and incredible works in the world. It relates  the adventures of a Spaniard who travelled on the first foray into Florida,  under the command of Governor Narvaez who was eager to find rich cities to  conquer, as Cortez had recently done against the Aztecs. Navarez, however,  was no Cortez, and one mistake after another put the entire expedition in  jeopardy. De Vaca's account relates what became of this expedition into  Florida and the American West. It is no exaggeration to claim that this is  one of the most significant books ever to be written.  This translation  surpases that of Cyclone Covey for its readability.  Explanations are given  in endnotes and requires some page flipping, but at least provides it for  those who are interested.  It would have been nice to see more maps and  photos, but there is one map included.  The only thing I missed was that  they didn't include an Afterword like Covey's had.  I look forward though  to other books from this series dealing with the conquest.	1998-08-13
US	52891068	R334CW2S3HM8YS	0875482287	426784975	The Gospel of Buddha	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Life of Buddha written in the style of Christian Gospel	311 pages, illustrated.  This is a nice book for Christians who wish to grasp the message and principle beliefs of Buddhism.  Carus presents the Buddha's life in a collection of stories from his birth, attainment of enlightenment, teaching, to his death.  Well written, it emulates the biblical style of the King Jame's Bible, occasionally puncuated with Ye, Thou, Thy, and so on.  The stories are enjoyable but short and somewhat numerous.  This edition appears to be made from the original plates, with original intricate illustrations made for the work by Olga Kopetzky.  Also included is a glossary of terms and a concordance with passages in the New Testament.  This book convinced me that Christianity is historically the child of both Judaism and Buddhism.	1998-08-11
US	52891068	RPEG5BZRYCV1E	0910261113	426784975	The Gospel of Buddha	Books	5	13	14	N	N	This version of Gospel of Buddha lacks illustrations.	This is a nice book for Christians who wish to grasp the message and principle beliefs of Buddhism. Carus presents the Buddha's life in a collection of stories from his birth, attainment of enlightenment, teaching, to his death. Well written, it emulates the biblical style of the King Jame's Bible, occasionally puncuated with Ye, Thou, Thy, and so on. The stories are enjoyable but short and somewhat numerous. Also included is a glossary of terms and a concordance with passages in the New Testament.  This edition has been reset and lacks the original intricate illustrations by Olga Kopetzky.  The pages of the book were also stragely scented.  I bought this to have a hardcover version but prefer the Open Court copy made from the original plates.	1998-08-11
US	52891068	R114DH6T2V6RB6	0140440887	961400385	Buddhist Scriptures	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Nice collection of various Buddhist writings.	Like any translation should be, this book reads as if it were written in English.  More than that it is superbly written as well.  It begins with stories of the Buddha's past lives, then a short rendition of his life.  It follows with selections covering the three doctrines of Morality, Meditation, and Wisdom.  And closes with some other writings including a short clip from the Tibetan Book of the Dead.  I actually enjoyed reading this book more than the Gospel of Buddha, and would have given it 5 stars had it maintained its grip consistently.  It also includes selections from Dharmapada, the Buddhacarita, and the Questions of King Milinda.	1998-08-10
US	52891068	R9ADZWRN3P0B1	0553296981	636860937	Anne Frank: The Diary of a Young Girl	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Touching story of human nature and a legacy against hate.	I never espected such a wonderful piece of writing.  Historical and personal, it covers so many aspects of life.  This detailed account of her two year life within the &quot;Secret Annex&quot; to escape Hitler's &quot;final solution&quot; is extrememly moving. Through it all Anne changes, attempts to understand herself, and keeps a hope for tomorrow.  It is heart-wrenching to know how it will end. One would wish they could read about her complete fulfilled life but alas the diary ends with her life still full of dreams and hardly begun. I would suggest reading Mein Kampf before this (if you can stand to) in order to experience the antithesis of her inward-looking, caring being. It is indeed a stark contrast.  This book speaks plainly of a human reality and an incredible tragedy.	1998-06-19
US	52891068	RZY75FYBBG9RU	0345331354	979388730	Cosmos	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Enjoyable summary of science and astronomy.	323 pages with 16 pages of color photographs. Sagan presents a good  introduction to science for non-scientists. Sagan is at his best when  describing the destiny of planetary exploration and the wonders of the  universe, but the entire book is well presented. Sagan's life-long  passion for seeking out extraterrestrial life is evident throughougt, as  are his fears of possible nuclear annihilation. He also shows how  human's have shown great ignorance and great achievement, while  advancement in technology has aided both human good and evil. With  examples (including himself), he shows that scientists care about the  world and attempt to do good, while ignorance, distrust, and  superstition are to be avoided. Although some of the conceptions of the  universe are becoming somewhat out of date, that only gives due reason  for reading this book now. Most of my understanding of the universe I  aquired by watching Cosmos, and this book provides a suitable  alternative to purchasing the expensive video set.	1998-06-17
US	52891068	R3HF5DG1MT9IE1	0807055018	654628039	The Broken Spears: The Aztec Account of the Conquest of Mexico	Books	4	27	31	N	N	Good selection of native sources chronicle Mexican conquest.	This work provides native Aztec tellings of the Spanish conquest under Cortez.  The selections are presented chronologically, with typically two versions of each incident.   The book itself is well done and not difficult to read, with some copies of native illustrations.  Although this work cannot be compared to the vivid, first person account of Diaz,  it does provide some interesting inside information on the Aztec reaction and their first impressions of the new arrivals.  The final chapter brings the struggle of the native vanquished to light  by quoting written sources through the 20th century.  Unfortunately making the historical implications much too political.  Still it is a well done and thoughtful book.	1998-06-14
US	52891068	RLHIYN7GUG1XZ	082630656X	421023354	Cabeza de Vaca's Adventures in the Unknown Interior of America (Zia Book)	Books	4	26	27	N	N	Good translation of DeVaca's original Relacion.	This work relates the adventures of a Spaniard who travelled on the first foray into Florida, under the command of a greedy Governor Navarez who  was eager to find rich cities to conquer, as Cortez had recently done against the Aztecs.  Navarez, however, was no Cortez, and one mistake after another put  the entire expedition in jeopardy.  De Vaca's account relates what became of this expedition into Florida and the American West.  It is no exaggeration to claim that this  is one of the most significant books ever to be written, however this particular translation was not without its own flaws.  I could imagine a better, easier to read translation than this (this one was first published in 1961).   Additions made in brackets were sometimes confusing and broke in without often adding any information that aided in the reading.  He does include portions that compare this account with another referred to  as the Joint Report which were all right.  Descriptions of place would better have been shown on a map (but the book has no maps or illustrations at all).  At the close I would have liked  to see a concluding bio of De Vaca but instead got an unneccesary Epilogue on the literary significance of the work, after the work has already spoken for itself.  The first time I read about this was in Journey Into Darkness  by John Upton Terrell, who used this Relacion to tell the story, but failed by often looking back on the event from our own day, as opposed to transporting you back as a translation of the original Relacion should do.  In this case the  rating is based only on this edition while the story itself is one of the most important works in the world.	1998-06-13
US	52891068	R8FUAFBARD8I8	1567311504	323888926	The Essential Jung	Books	5	22	25	N	N	Essential Jung is an essential read.	Stor has done a wonderful thing in presenting Jung's voluminous works in a single volume.   Although the content may at times be intimidating, the sections flow easily enough.   If you are going to read any book this year, then this should be the one.  Jung makes it absolutely clear the challenge that faces the modern mind, caught  between reason and faith.  In the last section he gives due emphasis to the struggle  between the individual and the state.  In short, this book is true wisdom for all to meditate upon.	1998-05-25
US	52891068	RNPP8JKKSF6JG	0140440852	801058727	The Voyage of Argo: The Argonautica (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	14	16	N	N	Very Good relation of the quest of the Golden Fleece.	215 pages long.  This is the only complete tale of Jason and the Argonauts quest for the Golden Fleece.   The story is certainly a classic through curiously not as widely read as Homer.  Especially since this work is  shorter and easier to read than the Illiad and Odyssey, yet also provides a good prelude to these epics too.   My only prior knowledge of the story was the 1963 movie, which has the flavor of a jaunty adventure, compared to  the more dramatic strains of this particular telling.  I was most impressed by the map that shows the most likely route  given the details of the story (although other known versions can differ quite dramatically sometimes).  The book also  contains a Glossary of names that came in useful.  This is a very good book that places you in the middle of greek  thought and legend.	1998-04-11
US	52891068	RC778I6W3F2SA	0517799693	960873812	The Man in the Ice: The Discovery of a 5,000-Year-Old Body Reveals the Secrets of the Stone Age	Books	3	7	9	N	N	Complete look at what is known so far about the Iceman.	This is probably going to be the best book about Otzi the Iceman available, divided into six sections.  It details every aspect of the find from a sometimes tedious day-by-day account of the process of excavation,  to a close description of all items.  The sections I found to be the most interesting were those<br />describing the Icemans wares, weapons, and clothing, in addition to a summary of life around the Alps in<br />Neolithic times, as part of an attempt to understand the circumstances surrounding his life and death.<br />Spinder understandably comments on the uglier aspects of the find, such as the fights for media attention and<br />everyone trying to get a piece of the Iceman (figuratively and literally), and clearly separates this from the<br />purely scientific analysis of the find.  The book contains many color pictures of the excavation, artifacts, and body,<br />including other illustrations as required.  Also a glossary of technical terms to assist the reader.  It must be remembered, though,<br /> that this is primarily a book about a corpse and contains detailed pictures in color.  It's depth of detail may seem tedious, and<br />I assuredly would have rather not seen all measurements given in Metric.  The overall rating is simply based on my overall<br />impression of the book, but it probably stands as being the prime treatment of the subject matter.	1998-03-28
US	52891068	R2G38EL67GE755	0140442189	296082860	Laxdaela Saga (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	10	11	N	N	One of the best Icelandic Sagas and known as romantic.	This Icelandic saga deals with event in Laxriverdale, first tracing the story  of the families involved before leading into the real story of the desirable Gudrun  and her sequential marriage to four gentlemen.  The basis for the story is certainly true,  although it is never known how true an Icelandic saga is.  This is one of the best sagas  both for its moving story and easier readability than other sagas.  Is interesting too in  that it deals in part with the introduction of Christianity into Iceland.  Contains family trees  for the characters involved and four maps of Iceland and Laxriverdale.	1998-03-23
US	52891068	R1UX20JCYRTS6F	0140445307	55912065	Eyrbyggja Saga (Penguin Classics)	Books	4	3	7	N	N	Interesting saga that captures Icelandic justice.	This Icelandic saga tells of settlers from Norway on Iceland's west coast around 1000 AD.  Like all sagas of this sort it is not plot-driven and makes characters hard to follow.   This saga in addition has no clear-cut main character, although it revolves around Snorri the Priest.  Throughout, it deals with conflict and resolution in wild-west Iceland.  The book includes maps of Iceland, places footnotes at the bottom of the page (which I find easier than if they are at the end of the book), and has a glossary of personal names.   One objection is chapter headings  that tell you what is going to happen before you read it.  I gave it 7 because there are a few sagas that are better.	1998-02-28
US	52891068	R31Y2ANNVSH9KJ	0460872656	853474667	Egil's Saga (Everyman's Library)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Remembered life of viking/poet makes good reading.	Egils saga relates the life of a prominent Viking/poet, starting with the life of his grandfather.   The story takes place primarily in Norway (also Iceland, England) c.900 AD and the precarious relations between the  Kings of Norway and Egil's family.  This saga captures some detailed scenes of Viking raids,  which makes it of some interest, but is the near-true story of an often brutal man, Egil.  Even so, he was also known for his poetic compositions and a number of them are included to highlight events  in the story.  Two translations of each is given, the literal one in the footnotes (which are sometimes better).  As with any icelandic sagas,  the style must be tolerated which includes a story that is not plot-driven, and trying to keep track of the different characters,  (many of whom have the same name).  In this version Christime Fell places the footnotes at the end which means you have to flip back  a lot.  She also places the text in long, unbroken paragraphs and doesn't set apart the dialogue (which is not done in Penguin's translations, although this one sells cheaper).   The book contains a short family tree of Egil's family and maps of the regions where the story takes place.  Although a work such as this should be widely read,  I only gave it a rating of 8 since it can be difficult reading.	1998-02-28
US	52891068	R15VJRZDH9CDRT	0140444459	854705553	King Arthur's Death (Penguin Classics)	Books	4	5	7	N	N	Two versions of King Arthur's last stand are noteworthy.	This King Arthur's Death book contains two versions of the story. The first is Morte Arthure which is an alliterative version, while the  second, Le Morte Arthur is stanzaic (rhymed).   Neither are Malory's Morte D'Arthure, although he used these as  his sources.  And especially good fare for fans of the round table.	1998-02-28
US	52891068	RZKEW3SOJFBFE	0231073054	110772628	The Art of Courtly Love (Records of Civilization)	Books	4	17	20	N	N	Revealing book from 11th Century on Attaining Love	This is the sort of book you look for, not a scholarly book compiled from various sources and presented for a modern reader, but a treatise written at the time that Courtly Love was at its height in France.  This book consists of three sections.  The first  has dialogues between men and women of different classes, which are of a man trying to reason with a woman for her love.   In the book there are two nice stories, but the third section was the most suprprising.  The first two sections summarize the rules of love to a young man the author knows named Walter, but in the third he gives his own opinion about pursuing love  and women to the boy that gave what seemed like a light work the ending of a heavy and controversial commentary.   I liked it, and you will especially as preparation to reading books of the era such as King Arthur.  I gave the book a rating of 8  only because the dialogues all seemed to be similar, but on the whole its a great book.	1998-02-07
US	52891068	R3BBUIP2N6AN6F	0140441549	979625993	The Vinland Sagas: The Norse Discovery of America (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	9	10	N	N	Two interesting sagas of Viking settlement in America	124 pages, containing maps including one from 1590.  This book contains two sagas giving accounts of the Viking arrival and attempted settlement of New England (they called Vinland).  The first is Graenlendinga Saga which first speaks to the discovery of Greenland by Erik the Red, and the further exploration of Vinland by his sons. The second, Eirik's Saga gives a somewhat different account of the same events.  Although the details remain similar, the persons and personalities shift.  Both are short but interesting, and the first chapter of each had to be restored from another account as the original chapters for each were lost.  That should no distract from one of the amazing  stories in human history.	1998-02-01
US	52891068	R1OPX1GS2ZZYGZ	0140442413	910396082	The Agricola and the Germania (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	8	9	N	N	Interesting Roman perspective of Britons and Germans	Agricola was one of the Roman governor's in Britain.  He was also Tacitus' father-in-law.  So he set down Agricola's great life down for posterity.  With some brief descriptions of Britain that they had recently found was an island, there are accounts of battles that Agricola made to push the edge of the Empire even further.  In Germania, Tacitus gives a  fascinating account of the German people, and as far as I know a unique account of their &quot;barbarian&quot; society.  As may be typically Roman, Tacitus speaks with a Romo-centric tone, but these works provide a lot of basic information of the world  at the time, without being as Tacitus' very long (and incomplete) Histories and Annals.	1998-02-01
US	52891068	R22QN52MBP1X6B	0520203844	626822802	Works and Days: A Translation and Commentary for the Social Sciences	Books	5	15	15	N	N	Rare source: concerns of common man and farmer in 600 BC	149 pages, about 40 pages for the work, while the rest comprises the introduction, footnotes and the index. The work is a rare example that describes concerns of the common Greek around the 7th century BC.   Hesiod addresses the work to his brother, and defines rules for proper conduct along with a description of the ways of a farmer, encouraging his brother to not become indolent.  The footnotes are presented opposite the text on each page which allows for easy reference.  Some references to Hesiod's Theogony might make that a worthwhile read before this one.	1998-01-24
US	52891068	R4W341C9TAJM7	0140444025	962236503	The Rig Veda: An Anthology of One Hundred Eight Hymns (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	8	17	N	N	Classic Sanskrit hymns tell of earthly and divine concerns.	Comprises 108 out of the 1,000 hymns of the Rig Veda, selected by the author. At about 300 pages no more are required.  The book is presented in a way that allows you to read any hymn independenly, so the introduction does not attempt to summarize deities or their relations to each other except within the footnotes (which I saw as a problem). Since the footnotes appear at the end of each hymn, some page flipping is required (another problem). The hymns praise the gods of the Aryans who invaded Inda in 2,000 BC (Agni, Indra  and their favorite alchoholic drink, Soma) along with others.  A classic that brings the thoughts of ancient people to light, whose meanings may not always be clear, but  are often candid.  People wide-read in mythology may see similarities to other mythological traditions.	1998-01-24
