US	52893974	R2XPB9PTYT1PIV	1570717656	604380257	The Fiske Guide to Colleges 2002	Books	4	30	32	N	Y	An excellent resource!	As a professional college advisor, I purchase the updated version of the Fiske Guide to Colleges for my office the moment it is available. Why Fiske as opposed to the Princeton Review, Kaplan or Peterson's you ask? Because, in my opinion, it is one of the best publications on the market today.<br />There are several features which make it both unique and user-friendly. For families just beginning this difficult process, I have found that the most useful inclusion in this guide is the section where it states where students who apply to a certain college also apply. So, if you research Georgetown (of course I had to use my alma mater for an example) and really like the school, Fiske would tell you that students who applied to Georgetown also might apply to universities like U Penn, Duke, Harvard, Johns Hopkins and UVA. Thus, Fiske is a great help in expanding and creating a student's list. It is also an excellent starting point.<br />Another one of my favorite features of this guide is that it discussed the academic strengths of a college. If for example, you are thinking about engineering as a major, Fiske will let you know if that is considered to be a strong program of study at a particular university. While some may feel that high school seniors do not really know what they want to study or do in life, I have found that a student who wants to study chemistry, for example, will often end up majoring or minoring in a science or related field. The same holds true for those interested in liberal arts or social science. While this generalization does not hold true in every case, it is a trend that I have noticed. If you are concerned about switching majors and not locking yourself into one particular program, look for a school that is strong across the curriculum as opposed to one that focuses in a particular area. By examining Fiske's strength of program listings for each school you are interested in, you will better be able to determine if a school can meet your academic needs.<br />There is one way in which Fiske could improve future guides. It would be useful to have a table in the Appendix which listed schools by strength of major. Hence, if you were seeking an institution that was strong in economics, you could reference the appendix's economics section and review a list of schools whose economic programs were considered strong. This would make the guide easier to use.<br />Overall, I would advise you to make the Fiske Guide one of your first purchases when beginning the college process in January of your junior year. It will be an excellent resource and serve you well up to the day you mail your applications.	2001-11-26
US	52893974	RTAGF5TRM641N	0312868626	700120202	The Valley of the Kings	Books	1	5	6	N	Y	Poor Character Development leads to a dull read	Cecelia Holland divides her book into two parts - Howard Carter's expedition in the early 20th century and the events leading up to the death of Tutankhamun thousands of years before. The concept intrigued me and, having heard much of the work of Cecelia Holland and being fascinated with Ancient Egypt, I was anxious to get this book into my collection. I hate to say it, but what a disappointment! <br />After so many people raved about Ms. Holland's talent and skill, I was astonished to find her character development to be so flawed and inadequate. While Howard Carter is a somewhat believable figure, Tutankhamun and his wife Ankhesenamun are simply flat. Little if any motivation can be found to justify their actions and neither character possess depth.<br />In my opinion too much historical material exists about the restoration of traditional Egyptian Gods in the aftermath of Akhenaten's monotheism for such an uninteresting book to be written. I had really hoped for better.	2001-10-12
US	52893974	R1R5IO2MYNWN5I	0892967056	687891835	Slayer of Gods	Books	5	4	6	N	Y	The best of the Lord Meren series	SLAYER OF GODS is a fantastic mystery set in Ancient Egypt and the 6th novel of The Lord Meren series. While you can read this book independantly from the previous 5 novels, I do recommend that you read DRINKER OF BLOOD before delving into this one. While not as exciting as SLAYER OF GODS, DRINKER OF BLOOD will give you the necessary background information to thoroughly enjoy this mystery.<br />Set during the reign of the Pharoah Tutankhamun and flashing back to the reign of the heretic Pharoah Akhenaten, SLAYER OF GODS focuses on the mystery of Queen Nefertiti's death. Lord Meren, the Eyes and Ears of Pharoah (an ancient detective)and Friend of the King, believes that the great Queen was poisoned. Meren, his son Kysen, his daughter Bener and the Charioteers Abu and Reia set out on the perilous quest to find her murderer. SLAYER OF GODS is filled with twists and turn of plot that enticed this reader to finish the book in one night. I found myself constantly surprised and I never guessed where Meren's investigation would lead.<br />On a historical note, this is a work of fiction (which the author states in her preface.) Much liberty with history has been taken here. Nevertheless, SLAYER OF GODS is a page turner and thoroughly enjoyable if you can put some historical facts aside...	2001-09-01
US	52893974	R6G3CMX4J2HTJ	0768905311	152227320	Private Secondary Schools 2001-2002 (Private Secondary Schools, 2002)	Books	5	12	12	N	N	Private School College Advisor highly recommends!	Are you exploring the option of a private school for your child or are you a student looking into independent education for yourself? Whether you are seeking a day or boarding school, the 2002 revised version of PRIVATE SECONDARY SCHOOLS by Peterson's is the most comprehensive guide written about private and independent secondary schools to date.(Some K-12 and junior boarding schools are included but the main focus of this guide is secondary education.) As an education professional who works both in the field of Private Secondary Schools and College Admissions, I can without hesitation give this Peterson's publication the highest recommendation possible. <br />Peterson's has created an informative and easy to use guide with website references and contact information. While not all schools are presented in the format of a detailed one to two page article, you will be able to find the vital statistics on most 9-12 private day or boarding schools in the United States even if they have not been featured in the aforemention in depth profile. You will always be able to find the following information for each school: Academics, Athletics, Endowment, Number of Faculty members (a breakdown of how many hold Bachelors, Masters or Ph.Ds), Physical Plant, Amount of Financial Aid given last year, Applied vs. Accepted Statistics and of course Admissions contact information.<br />I have worked with many families who were exploring the idea of sending their child to private school. Whether you or your family are familiar with independent education or are just being introduced to the idea, I promise that this guide will be your best reference throughout both the exploration and application process. <br />Do keep in mind however that a campus visit (including a tour and interview) and a school's own literature are always the best sources of information about a particular school. Nevertheless, the Peterson's guide will help a family to determine which schools are a good match and willbest meet their needs, thus making the best of each campus visit.	2001-08-31
US	52893974	R263IXA9NMT9GN	0385499094	875297371	Akhenaten: Dweller in Truth A Novel	Books	2	4	4	N	Y	Not worthy of Mahfouz	When I first learned that Mahfouz had written, at long last, about the ancient times of his beloved Egypt, I could not wait to get my hands on the book. With great anticipation, I began reading \\"Akhenaten: Dweller in Truth.\\" The recreation of the city of Akhetaten is outstanding, the writing  as you would expect from this author, is both insightful and lyrical, however, the book itself is not worthy of the great Naguib Mahfouz. <br />The format though is interesting. Set after the death of the \\"heretic\\" Pharoah Akhenaten, who banned traditional Egyptian religion to institute the worship of the one god - the Aten, Mahfouz chronicles the interviews of the heretic's friends and foes conducted by a young nobleman who visits each one persoanlly in an attempt to learn what \\"truly\\" occurred during this time in Egypt's history. While most interviews provide the reader with court intrigue, family issues and theological dilemmas, the weakest interview in the book, in my opinion, seems to be with Nefertiti. The entire book leads up to this interview...and, upon completing his interview, our interviewer sums it up in three sentences! What a let down... <br />Perhaps I am asking to much, but I really don't think so. I have had the pleasure of reading such Mahfouz masterpieces as the Cairo triology and \\"The Fountain and the Tomb\\" ....	2001-07-15
US	52893974	RTZWRZBQ96M9D	1557251894	197245795	How Firm a Foundation: A Gift of Jewish Wisdom for Christians and Jews	Books	4	5	6	N	N	Jewish-Christian understanding...	Those who are interested in Jewish-Christian understanding will truly treasure &quot;How Firm a Foundation.&quot; Rabbi Yechiel Eckstein wrote this piece for a Christian audience who is seeking to better understand Judaism and the Jewish roots of Christianity. Areas covered include the foundations of Jewish belief, paths to santcification, the Sabbath, festivals of the Jewish year, Jewish life cycles, dealing with the Holocaust, the importance of the land of Israel and the rise of Jewish  &quot;denominations.&quot; While certainly not the book I would suggest you read should you desire a scholarly text or wish to gain information about the conversion process (Maurice Lamm's &quot;To Be a Jew&quot; is the most definitive book to date on orthodox conversion,) &quot;How Firm a Foundation&quot; is a wonderful book for those who are exploring the Jewish faith a bit more in depth for first time. As a woman, raised as a Roman Catholic, who is considering conversion to Judiasm, I found this book to be extraordinary.	2001-07-15
US	52893974	R3UX0APF0OAE99	0743403460	114608099	Nefer the Silent (The Stone of Light, Vol. 1)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	If you liked Jacq's Ramses the Great series...	The first volume in Christian Jacq's The Stone of Light series is pleasure to read. If you have read his five volume Ramses II series, don't miss this one. <br />Jacq is an Egyptolgist who possesses an incredible ability: without hindering plot, bogging down his writing with too much detail or weak character development, he allows the reader to visit this great civilization in its glory, recontructed upon accurate historical information. I suppose the point that I am trying to make is that Jacq's novels are not like an academic textbook, although you may find yourself wanting to learn more about this fascinating ancient civilization after reading one of them... His writing simply flows. He skillfully breathes life into actual people (as well as some fictional ones too) that lived thousands of years ago. I have found reading each of his works so far to be a pleasurable experience.<br />As for Nefer the Silent itself, the story focuses on two young men, Silent (a sculpter) and Paneb (a painter), who both seek to become artists in the brotherhood of the Place of Truth.  The Place of Truth is home to a sacred brotherhood who are charged with the task of creating the tombs of the Pharoahs and Queens. Although many rumors exist about the brotherhood due to the secrecy of their work and the fact that they answer only to Pharoah, both men are determined to follow the path that will lead them there. For each it will be different and there it is not certain that an artist will be accepted once he reaches the Place of Truth. Nevertheless, Paneb and Silent are determined to try and this is their story.<br />I enjoyed Nefer the Silent a great deal and immediately purchased the next volume (I confess, I didn't but the book when it first came out.) I've finished both of them in under three days. I couldn't put this down. I hope your experience is as good as mine has been. Enjoy!	2001-07-12
US	52893974	R2PD5WZB22D70Q	1559723327	938420515	Eating in the Light of the Moon	Books	5	167	169	N	Y	This book lifted my spirits when I needed it most	I feel compelled to share with potential readers of Anita Johnston's EATING IN THE LIGHT OF THE MOON how much this book has helped me on my recovery from bulimia. As a woman with an eating disorder, let me assure that the path to recovery is a long difficult journey, but when things get tough, to this day, I turn to this book.<br />The concept is different than anything I have read to date, and I have read a lot. I love analysis, thought and literature. Johnston, who, by the way, runs an acclaimed eating disorder clinic in Hawaii uses multicultural fairy tales and myths to illustrate to the reader important steps on the journey to recovery. The story I return to again and again is that of the Tutu bird.<br />Briefly put, there was a young girl who lived in a village in Africa where the people were starving. Like all the other village children, she was sent out to fetch the animals that had been captured in the village traps overnight so that the villagers might eat. When she got there, there was a Tutu bird in the trap. His song was so sweet that she set him free. She returned to the village and explained what happened. The villagers were so angry that they buried her alive in a mud hut and left her to die. She cried and cried. One day, she heard a sweet song and a ray of light came though the top of her hut. The next day she heard the song again and realized that it was the Tutu bird. The bird was pecking a hole in the mud hut to free her! The bird then dropped in fruits and nuts. This continued until the girl was well fed and the Tutu bird could free her. She returned to an astonished village with the Tutu bird nourished compared to the thin villagers and then left with the Tutu bird to go into the forest forever. The point of the story: Find your voice, listen to it and don't stray. It will serve you in the end no matter how bleak things seem at the time.<br />If your mind is a literary one - if you are a person who finds deep meaning in stories/books - then PLEASE purchase this book. It has instrumental in my recovery and I really want to thank Ms. Johnston for that. I hope EATING IN THE LIGHT OF THE MOON will speak to you as it has to me.	2001-07-10
US	52893974	R3QIBICMWHU5XH	0399523391	342240483	Film School Confidential (Perigee)	Books	5	23	24	N	N	An excellent resource	During my senior year of college, while I was applying to film school, this book proved quite helpful. Very little is written about graduate programs in the arts (at least that I've been able to find) compared to Law, Medical or MBA programs and, beyond the Internet, word of mouth and professors, it is good to have an additional source to consult (especially one written by two MFA film grads from NYU!) <br />So far, I have found Film School Confidential to present a fair, accurate and honest portrait of what I have expereinced. The authors want to make sure a potential MFA candidate in film knows what he/she is signing up for. I did not find this book to be discouraging: just realistic.<br />Schools are reviewed in depth. One thing I found to be of particular help was the discussion of how production staff roles were determined. In some schools, a student might never get a chance to direct, even if that student came to study directing; whereas in other programs, students rotate through postions and have the opportunity to learn to edit, write, direct, produce, etc,... I found that the literature a school would make available to its applicants did not cover this information. It was only when I specifically asked the question to the film department itself that I determined how they approached this VERY important aspect of a film student's education.<br />For me, learning to ask that question alone was worth the price of the book. But, in fact, there really is a lot more - especially with regard to the mission and philosophy of each school (yes, they really are quite different.) If you are seriously considering getting your MFA in film, this book is an excellent resource.	2001-07-10
US	52893974	RQ3T0JK7JTHQK	0828873690	84522357	Thesaurus Larousse	Books	5	7	7	N	N	For the Serious French Major...	Are you REALLY serious about improving your essay writing skills as well as you vocabulary? If you are, then this is the book that will help you to do it. To properly use a Thesaurus a) of this size and b) written only in French, your language skills must to be quite strong. So be prepared. This is a book to acquire as you are approaching near fluency. When I was finally ready to use the Larousse Thesaurus as it was meant to be used, I was able to judge the nuance of the French language (most of the time.) Still, I found it to be so helpful a tool that I haven't been able to write a paper without it since I bought it.<br />If you are serious about majoring in French, not just getting through the &quot;dreaded&quot; college language requirements, I would really advise you to invest in one of the larger Larousse Thesaurus editions as well as a French-French Petit Robert Dictionary (preferably one that is several inches thick) Both will be well worn, put to good use and worth each and every penny by the time you get your degree.	2001-07-10
US	52893974	REV3T2SNU7V40	0345389220	889257796	Murder in the Place of Anubis (Lord Meren Mysteries)	Books	3	13	16	N	N	A light, fun read...	If you are intrigued by Ancient Egypt or a light mystery novel at all, then by all means purchase Murder in the Place of Anubis. This is the first mystery in a series that follows the adventures of Lord Meren, the Eyes and Ears of Pharoah (to use modern terms - something like a high ranking FBI agent who enjoys investigating himself as opposed to delegating to a subordinate.) Meren serves the Pharaoh Tutankhamun during what is an uncertain time in Egypt's history. Tutankhamun's predecessors, the Pharoah's Akhenaten and Smenkhare, created a tremdous rift in the country by forcing a religous conversion to the worship of one god, the Aten. Tutankhamun, in an effort to regain stability and control, has returned Egypt to traditional polytheism. There is one question that remains: do those who were wronged by the previous reigns want revenge or even trust the new Pharoah? Needless to say, Robinson has a wealth of possibilties for future novels...<br />If you are seeking an indepth recreation of Ancient Egypt with detailed character study that will &quot;take you there,&quot; may I suggest a few options - anything by Pauline Gedge, Margaret George's The Memoirs of Cleopatra, Sylvia Shults' The Golden Horus, Naguib Mahfouz's Akhenaten or either of Christian Jacq's series: Ramses or The Stone of Light. If however, you are willing to overlook a few historical details and enjoy a good mystery that's a quick light read, give Lynda Robinson a try...	2001-07-09
US	52893974	RC2TYD91CP3SN	0060907835	576308701	Peter Shaffer's Amadeus	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Mediocrity can be too much to face	Amadeus, in my opinion, is Shaffer's masterpiece. Shaffer explores the familiar theme of man versus God at a new depth, but it is his treatment of the theme of mediocrity that gives this play its true bite. I find myself in this play and my guess is that you will too. Much like court composer Antonio Salieri, I am good at what I do and I am grateful that I have been endowed with the ability to excel professionally. Still, I am the not best (no matter how much I wish it for myself.) I am, however, blessed or cursed , depending on your perspective, with the ablity to recognize someone who has been given that special gift just as Antonio Salieri realizes the incredible musical talents of Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart. Being truthful, like Salieri, I too can grow jealous, especially when I must work hard at something that comes so easily to someone gifted.<br />Traveling with Antonio Salieri as he deals with his own talents in the face of Mozart's is a rich, rewarding experience. It is a pleasure I urge you not to deny yourself and I promise that the play offers a much deeper character study than the film. If I had the option to give this 10 stars, I would. It is truly a masterpiece of late twentieth century theatre.	2001-07-04
US	52893974	ROEEKD3YJCY8V	0738839647	608037687	Golden Horus	Books	4	3	6	N	Y	Time Travel with Tutankhamun	I truly enjoyed Golden Horus and finished the book in under two days. I just couldn't put it down. This is a well rewritten book with an interesting concept - what would an Ancient Egyptian think of 20th century America? How would he react to McDonalds, pizza, automatic doors, the large beer selection or cars? Slyvia Shults addresses this situation in Golden Horus when the Pharoah Tutankhamun accidentally travels forward in time and finds himself living 3700 years into the future. <br />Shults' Tutankhamun is a very believable, assertive young man who is trying to comprehend his predicament. He is the ruler and living god of a long dead civilization whose remnants are found behind musuem glass. Religious worship, as he knows it, has been considered pagan for centuries. The societal hierarchy with which he has lived his whole life exists no longer - men and women as well as people at different socio-economic levels appear to treat each other with a degree of equality that Tutankhamun has never experienced. How should he both adjust and live in this new world? Tutankhamun turns to the three American friends he has made, Susan, a sucessful romance writer, John, a history professor, and Dr. Zenger, and Egyptologist, to guide him in his new life.<br />I would suggest this book to anyone who enjoys historical fiction. While the details are not entirely accurate, the vast majority of Ancient Egyptian history is correct (as best we know it...)Shults' characters are engaging and memorable and I can assure you that life for Susan and John (and the reader too!)becomes interesting when Tutankhamun decides that he must find a way for them to experience the Ancient Egypt in which he grew up.	2001-06-30
US	52893974	R361ALDQ8OSB5L	038097696X	882537781	The Eye of Horus: A Novel of Suspense	Books	3	2	4	N	Y	An interesting story beneath an overabundance of information	Ms. Thurston successfully backs each point and counterpoint in The Eye of Horus with what only can be described as meticulous, accurate and thorough research and, for this effort, she deserves much praise. As woman who, like the author, has a passion for Ancient Eygpt, I am fascinated with the minute details of Egyptian medicine or the meaning of each penstroke in the formation of the hieroglyphic character known as &quot;the eye of horus.&quot; Nevertheless, as a reader, I found Ms. Thurston's plot to be bogged down with details that might be better found in graduate level textbooks which focus on the Egyptian language, medical practices or religious ritual.<br />Still, I have enjoyed this work of historical fiction. The two stories, one modern and one ancient, are quite interesting. The ancient Egyptian plot tells the story of a young woman, an outline scribe, by the name of Aset and her tutor, the physcian Tenre. Several thousand years later, the lives of another physician, Dr. Max Cavanaugh, and Kate McKinnion, an artist or a modern day outline scribe, intertwine through the discovery of the unusual burial of the mummy Tashat. As I read this novel, I started to feel that these two couples, Aset and Tenre and Max and Kate, though separated by thousands of years, may have more in common than meets the eye.<br />I found The Eye of Horus to be a slow read, but, if you are willing to wade through the overabundance of detailed information, you may well find a creative and imaginative story that is worth the effort.	2001-06-11
US	52893974	R2NQB5Y8H5I5XT	0768905699	165262338	Peterson's Private Secondary Schools 2000-2001 : The Smart Parents' Guide to Private Education (Peterson's Private Secondary Schools, 2000-2001)	Books	5	7	7	N	N	A MUST for families considering private education!	As an education professional who works in the field of Private Secondary Schools, I can without a doubt give this Peterson's publication the highest recommendation possible. The guide is easy to use and quite informative. While not all schools are presented in the format of a wonderfully detailed one to two page article, most 9-12 private day or boarding schools in the United States are included. At the very least, you will be able to investigate the following areas at each school: Academics, Athletics, Endowment, Number of Faculty members (a breakdown of how many hold Bachelors, Masters or Ph.Ds), Physical Plant, Amount of Financial Aid given last year, Applied vs. Accepted Statistics &amp; Contact information.<br />I have worked with many families who were exploring the idea of sending their child to private school. This guide has been their Bible. Whether a family is familiar with independent education or is just being introduced to the idea, I promise that this guide will be your best reference throughout both the exploration and application process. A campus visit and a school's own literature are of course always the best sources of information. The Peterson's guide, however, will help a family to determine which schools are a good match and will best meet their needs, thus making the best of each campus visit.	2001-06-05
US	52893974	R30REA5LJNHQZI	156947236X	158080587	The Horus Road: Lords of the Two Lands	Books	5	5	5	N	Y	Amun is Satisfied...but has the cost been too great?	The house of Tao has long waited for the god Amun to end his demands of personal loss and sacrifice for the return of the rule of Ma'at (rightful law &amp; justice by the true Egyptian Pharoah of royal blood)to Egypt. After living through his father Seqenenra's slaughter, his brother Si-Amun's suicide, his brother Kamose's murder and his sister Tani's marraige to a traitor, Ahmose Tao may finally see the unification of Upper and Lower of Egypt and feel the weight of the Double Crown of the Pharoah rest upon his brow. <br />Still, there remain so many obstacles to overcome if peace and prosperity are to reign. The Setiu usurper, Apepa, once Pharoah of the whole land, still lives and controls the northern capital of Het-Uart. The trade routes along the Horus Road, necessary for Egypt to thrive, remain out of Ahmose Tao's control. Furthermore, there is the business of the government itself. As Ahmose will learn, it is one thing to build, motivate and lead an army during a time of war, but quite another to create a government to rule a country that has been devastated by the scars of battles. Ahmes-Nefertari, Ahmose's wife, grows skilled in the arts of politics and diplomacy but will her ability to rule, the joy she takes with her accomplishments and her new found independence tear her marriage apart? Can Ahmose and Ahmes-Nefertari hold Egypt and their family togther?<br />The Horus Road is the conclusion to the Gedge's trilogy which depicts the events that usher in the great 18th Dynsaty. It is fitting for Gedge to have focused such attention on Ahmes-Nefertari as well as Tetisheri and Aahotep (her grandmother and mother, respectively) in this final volume as these three women are the ancestors of the only woman to rule as Pharaoh, Hatshepsut (Gedge's Child of the Morning is an incredible book if you would like to learn more about this amazing woman!). As always, the attention to detail is precise and the amount of research done by the author shines through each sentence. Egypt comes alive once again in a Pauline Gedge novel and I have had the pleasure of visiting, if only for a little while...	2001-05-19
US	52893974	R3R7DB47TO0R1Y	1569472386	855402107	The Oasis: Lords of the Two Lands: Volume 2	Books	5	10	10	N	N	Captivating...	The Oasis, the second volume of Pauline Gegde's Lord of the Two Lands Trilogy, is even more captivating the the first. Following the death of Sequenenra Tao at the hands of feared but brilliant General Pedzeku, the members of the House of Tao are stipped of their titles, nobility and power to rule over their ancestral home of Waset by the Setiu King Apepa. The idea of a foriegn king ruling over Egypt does not sit well with Sequenenra's sons Kamose and Ahmose despite all that they have lost and, with their family's permission, they decide to restore Egypt to the rightful Egyptian rulers, the Taos, or die in the process. <br />At times gruesome and painful, the Oasis details exquistely the price war can exact on those who wage it. The decision to take life, regardless of how noble its reason, is one which weighs heavily on the soul. Gedge's character Kamose Tao, who proclaims himself Pharoah and sets out to purge Egypt of the Setiu who have usurped the country from its rightful citizens, fights many bitter, bloody battles in which innocents are killed to right what the Ancient Egyptians refer to as Ma'at - a sense of law, righteousness and justice. The development of this character from an introspective older brother, favored by his grandmother, to a king who speaks his mind without regard to consequences and who is tormented by the horror of a war of his own making, is indeed compelling.<br />Additionally, as you will always find in the work of Pauline Gedge, Egypt is recreated in intricate detail. The reader is transported to a time when the 17th Dynasty is concluding and the Great 18th Dynasty is about to leave the womb...<br />I can't wait to read The Horus Road (vol 3)!	2001-05-08
US	52893974	R3OIE304OM8H20	0226532089	715044357	The Fragility of Freedom: Tocqueville on Religion, Democracy, and the American Future	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Referred to: on a weekly basis; Purchased: 5 years ago	If you are reading Democracy in America and attempting to come to terms with Alexis de Tocqueville as he pertains to 21st century America, there is no better book I could suggest to you than Joshua Mitchell's The Fragility of Freedom. <br />Professor Joshua Mitchell, of Georgetown University, is indeed gifted at breathing life into what many students too often and mistakenly view as &quot;dry&quot; political theory. It was through Mitchell's guidance that I began to see Tocqueville's ideas - the need to fill the void within ourselves; America's ever expanding boundaries; self definition by action and acquistion - not only existing but thriving in America today. Political theory and philosophy came alive! It was exciting and that had never happened to me before.<br />For a student of Political Science, Philosophy or American History, this book is a must read. It's been over five years since I purchased this book and I still refer to it on a weekly basis.	2001-04-24
US	52893974	RKLVSYIQT7R9I	0385335482	841557271	Confessions of a Shopaholic (Shopaholic, No 1)	Books	4	6	7	N	N	How to learn about Credit Cards and Debt and still have FUN!	Sophie Kinsella's quick witted Confessions of a Shopaholic is an enjoyable read, but don't be fooled by its superficial appearance. Ms. Kinsella has raised some very crucial issues with regard to personal finances, responsibility and credit in this wonderful, fast-paced and light-hearted romp through London's finest boutiques, department stores and Starbucks-like coffee houses about the consumer based/commericial culture that dominates the western world. I found myself laughing with Ms. Kinsella's main character Becky Bloomwood as she explained that she purchased things but always had two prices for them: what she actually paid and what she TOLD her mother she paid (usually calculated at about 70% off a half priced item) and crying with Becky as her monthly credit card statements arrived and she confronted, in writing, the reality of her total expenditures for the month.<br />While Ms. Kinsella makes it clear that Becky has no problem spending money she does not already have (i.e. a credit purchase), she also takes pains to show that the credit card companies are delighted to extend Becky much more credit than her salary would justify as reasonable. Even when Becky does not pay off her balances, the credit card companies continue to entice her with balance transfers, free gifts and things such as airmiles to use their product. The question of why extend credit to someone who is having difficulty repaying or really could never have been expected to repay a debt greater than her salary just hangs there. Yes, Becky Bloomwood put herself in the situation, but her creditors did little to help this young woman, fresh out of college, educate herself to avoid getting there in the first place. <br />Confessions of a Shopaholic is a fun way to be enlightened about the dangers of debt and quite frankly has really helped me to make a conscious decision to charge something before I automatically put it on the credit card - and wait in dread until the Visa bill arrives to see thedamage I've done.	2001-04-18
US	52893974	RT95CEHE6Q3KH	1569471916	314357322	1: HIPPOPOTAMUS MARSH-C (Lords of the Two Lands)	Books	5	14	14	N	Y	Gedge does it again	Pauline Gedge has been granted a gift. She has the ability to bring civilizations, long dead, to life through her words. Imagine that you are the ruler of a specific region of a country and that you receive a letter from your king, who lives several hundred miles away, which states that the noise made by the Hippopotami who inhabit  your marsh are keeping him awake at night. What a ridiculous notion! Yet Seqenenra Tao must deal with a king who is just this irrational. Add to this mixture the fact that the king is a foriegner, a Setui or Hyksos as we know them today, and that in Seqenenra Tao flows the blood of the rightful pharoahic line of Egypt and The Hippopotamus Marsh, Gedge's masterful tale of revolt in Ancient Egypt, is begins. Truly, I couldn't put this book down until I finished it and I am finding the same thing to be true of the Oasis, which I am reading now. These characters are so well developed that the reader invests much in their lives.	2001-04-17
US	52893974	R1JVHTPZYR812O	0446357693	164881250	Ancient Evenings	Books	2	8	19	N	N	Lewd, Disgusting but at times Enlightening &amp; Powerful	Full of characters who eat the excrement, flesh or [body parts] of a variety of animals in order to gain the wisdom and strength that they offer, Ancient Evenings journeys a path into a world of Ancient Egypt that I have never known. Nor frankly, for that matter, care to. Yet, Mailer's portrait of Rameses II, Usermare as he is known is this work, is incredible. Divine and human, Horus and Set are woven so well into the fabric of of this pharoah's character that his struggle to maintain harmony between these two opposing forces alone is worth wading through the rest of the book. My faith in Ancient Egypt as a whole and its actual traditions is restored by Mailer, however, by the conclusion of this work but not before I have been thoroughly disgusted by a variety of acts descibed by the protagonist Menehetet.	2001-03-28
US	52893974	R33SQFLKMMZZKB	0811202097	823934486	Under Milk Wood: A Play for Voices	Books	1	5	26	N	N	Not for me	Often hailed as genius, Dylan Thomas' Under Milk Wood proved far from that lofty title for me. First I read the play. Next I saw a University of Richmond production and finally, I read the play again. I thought I was missing out, somehow, and decided to discuss the play with one of my former theatre professors. At last, I've concluded that although some may find beauty in the so called poetry of Thomas' language, I find nothing but confusion - both for the reader and the audience member. I am a theatre professional and I would not choose to mount a production of Under Milk Wood at any cost. I fear I'd lose the audience.	2001-03-27
US	52893974	RTML0FZLFF96A	0374411891	372873233	The Ch'i-lin Purse: A Collection of Ancient Chinese Stories (Sunburst Book)	Books	4	18	18	N	Y	Works well with a Middle School Ancient China Curriculum	This past year, it was suggested to me my the publisher of our 6th grade social studies textbook to have the students read the Ch'I-Lin purse in conjunction with our chapter on Ancient China. I cannot tell you how much my students loved this book. They are just wonderful. Of particular interest to my 6th grade girls was the story of the carp fish who gives up her immortality for love. I also have to confess, I really enjoyed this book myself and plan that in years to come, should I have a daughter, I will be reading this book to her.	2001-03-27
US	52893974	RPZNYT8GT78QU	014006639X	64016183	Stargate	Books	1	6	14	N	Y	Please don't  judge Pauline Gedge by Stargate	I suppose I should start out by saying that I believe Pauline Gedge to be a fantastic author; therefore, if you have read this book, please don't judge her by it. Gedge's words typically weave a fine tapestry upon which her work is set. Her characters are rich and complex. The reader feels transported into the world she has created and never wants to leave. I have had this experience so often with Ms. Gedge's work, to her credit, that I have grown to expect the pleasure each time I open one of her novels. Unfortunately, this is just not the case here. Stargate does not stack up to Child of the Morning or the Twelfth Transforming at all. It is in fact a disapointment. The book is wordy, difficult to read and not at all engaging. I am hopeful Ms. Gedge will stay with Ancient Egypt. She excels so in that time period.	2001-03-27
US	52893974	R3KUFY46A61ZW4	0060275014	826981261	Sound the Shofar!: A Story for Rosh Hashanah and Yom Kippur	Books	4	15	15	N	Y	Very enjoyable read for children	As a middle school social studies teacher who teaches world cultures, I wanted to expose my students to the High Holy Days, I was seeking a colorful, fun and informative introduction to this most important time in the Jewish year. My mostly Christian students knew nothing of Rosh Hashanah or Yom Kippur which led me to choose a book that was very simple and straight forward. When I discovered Sound the Shofar, I knew that it was perfect.<br />The story centers on one family's celebration of the High Holy Days and focuses on the reasons behind some of the more allegorical  traditions (such as blowing the shofar, dipping apples in honey...)My students did gain a basic understanding, but the book, in my opinion, is really meant for a much younger audience (perhaps kindergarten - second grade) although children through 10 will most likely enjoy it.	2001-03-27
US	52893974	R3BRRUV0X81H88	0060165413	892587171	Mirage: A Novel	Books	4	6	8	N	N	Gedge recreates Ancient Egypt yet again	Pauline Gedge is perhaps the best author currently writing Ancient Egyptian Historical Fiction. I enjoy her work tremendously. She creates complex, believable characters and gives the breath of life to a rich, beautiful culture that flourished by the Nile several thousand years ago. While not her best work (my personal favorite is Child of the Morning), Mirage is an enjoyable read which showcases Gedge's attention to detail and character development.	2001-03-22
US	52893974	R309WDWB80PBS4	0446520918	453150099	Sunrise on the Mediterranean	Books	2	5	7	N	Y	Weakest in the series	Ms. Frank's third installment of this trilogy is lacking in comparison to its counterparts Shadows on the Nile and Reflections of the Aegean. Sunrise on the Mediterranean is a very fast read, quite thin and way too predictable. I feel read the book more to discover the conclusion of the triology than for the story contained within the book itself. I expected more, I suppose, and I found myself disappointed.	2001-03-22
US	52893974	R21I7S8OJVI04G	0939149850	432962807	Child of the Morning (The Hera Series)	Books	5	72	74	N	Y	This is one of my favorite books ever written...	Child of the Morning is Pauline Gedge's historical fiction account of the life of Pharoah (or Queen depending on your source) Hatshepsut. In this work, Pauline Gedge recreates the world of Pharoah Thothmoses I, specifically the court where his two children a son, Thothmoses II, and a daughter, Hatshepsut, grow up. As we watch these children grow, it becomes clear that Hatshepsut is suited to rule while her brother is not. There is however a problem. Egypt has never had a female Pharoah. Can she be accepted by the military? The People? The Priesthood? and the Nobility? Or would Egypt prefer a male Pharoah who is not fit to be called a god? How will Thothmoses I deal with the issue of succession and how can he assure that his wishes are carried out?<br />Child of the Morning is a wonderful book of politics, social commentary and wisdom. It is truly an incredible piece of literature as well as an outstanding character study of the main female character, Hatshepsut. I cannot give this book a higher recommendation and I thank Ms. Gedge each day for writing such an amazing work.	2001-03-22
US	52893974	R32Z4DHCIIHQRV	0312242638	533199320	The Horus Killing (Ancient Egypt Mysteries)	Books	3	3	4	N	Y	Enjoyable but....	The Horus Killings is a quick read. Unlike the work of Pauline Gedge, I found the work somewhat devoid of detailed setting and character study. If you are seeking to read a book involving Ancient Egypt and are quite focused on plot, you will enjoy this book. It's an enjoyable mystery, full of suspense. Do not look for more than this because I fear you will not find it.	2001-03-22
US	52893974	R1FZYSHU2CLF9X	0385270380	321323225	Eagle and the Raven	Books	5	22	22	N	N	Gedge steps out of Egypt	Wow! I have always loved Pauline Gedge's novels set in Ancient Egypt. Her attention to detail, historical fact and ability to imagine a civilaztion in the fullest sense of the term based on the knowledge we have available through the work of Egyptologists continues to impress me. In the Eagle and the Raven, Gedge brings her remarkable abilities to another place and time in histroy and is quite successful. I really encourage a reader who wants to see and feel living history to pick up this book. You won't be sorry, I promise.	2001-03-22
US	52893974	R2AO6FS8UFUAQZ	0894105817	286967181	Fountain and Tomb: Hakayat Haretna (Three Continents Press) (English and Arabic Edition)	Books	5	26	27	N	N	Mahfouz paints a beautiful, mystical portrait....	When I was a freshman at the University of Richmond, Naguib Mahfouz's  Fountain and Tomb was one of the books all first year English classes were  required to read. I must confess, as a typical student, I had little desire  to read the aforementioned text; however, from the moment I read the first  paragraph, I was hooked. Rarely  have I ever discovered such pure joy in  prose. Each word, each sentence created so detailed a picture of a world  which delighted me and, by the conclusion of the piece, I longed for more.  Mahfouz has painted with words a beautiful, mystical portrait in the  Fountain and Tomb and I highly recomend this book to anyone who has even  the slightest passing interest in Egypt.	1998-10-01
