US	52895367	R2KWUNEW4IR9VI	0825420237	856915097	Exploring the History and Philosophy of Christian Education: Principles for the Twenty-First Century	Books	4	10	17	N	N	Not the perfect one	It is always gratifying to see attention paid to the perennial ideas and ideals, the importance of understanding the events and lessons of history, and to the appreciation of the classics in any educational enterprise. Perhaps more so today, it is cause to celebrate when that attention happens in the context of theological education. An informal survey of courses of study in theological schools will reveal a diminishing opportunity for being introduced in any systematic way to the history and philosophy of educational thought and Christian education.  <br /> <br /> So it was with some anticipation that this reviewer read Anthony and Benson's volume on the history and philosophy of Christian education. While the organization and coverage of the text offers a traditional Western approach that is recognizable to those who appreciate \\"old school,\\" sadly, it has little to contribute by way of new insight, interpretation, or challenge to the contemporary reader. The coverage of history and philosophies which impact Christian education extends up to the twentieth century, but ends with a cursory treatment of the very influential impact of existentialism, and almost no treatment of substance of postmodernism, a school of thought that, regardless of what extent one sees as relevant, should nevertheless be dealt with critically by any student of history, philosophy, and education.  <br /> <br /> This is at best an introductory college-level textbook. The coverage and treatment of the subject at hand is much too simplistic, at times understated to the point of inaccuracy, to allow for deep understanding of the subject.  For example, the extent of the reference to the Odyssey is the statement that it is \\"the account of Odysseus, the king of Ithaca, who makes an arduous journey home from the battlefield\\" (p. 47). There are too many oversimplifications like, \\"People worshiped Greek gods more out of fear for how the gods could hurt them than out of a genuine desire to express their appreciation and affection for the gods. They presented offerings more to avoid future punishment than to express heartfelt thanksgiving\\" (p. 48). The book also suffers from an over reliance on educational, theological, and philosophical dictionaries and general works as well as some puzzling sources like the All Color Book of Greek Mythology (Pattrick, London: Octopus, 1972).  <br /> <br /> The authors provide what they call \\"three major emphases\\" throughout the book. The first is the placing of the historical content under examination into a broader context through the use of a timeline list under the caption \\"What in the world?\\" This is a sidebar feature that is somewhat helpful. The second is the use of textboxes (sidebars) that provide an (overly) interpretive summary of the material under discussion. The third feature is a final chapter section labeled \\"So What?\\" in which the authors summarize and attempt to apply \\"principles or lessons\\" (hence the subtitle) from the material-a sort of whack on the side of the head for those who may have difficulty connecting the dots on their own. Unfortunately, the principles offered are not helpful generally. More often than not they seem disconnected from the content coverage and intended more to reaffirm a predisposed philosophical stance. For example, the \\"So What?\\" list for Chapter 1, Hebrew Origins of Christian Education includes, \\"1. God desires to use people to accomplish His purpose on earth,\\" and \\"3. Ministry is about relationships.\\" Likewise for Chapter 2, Greek Education and Philosophical Thought, the \\"So What?\\" list includes, \\"1. Christian education must be more than rote memory,\\" \\"2. The curriculum of Christian education must be fully integrated,\\" and \\"3. Scope and sequence of Bible-related curriculum must consider basic tenants of human development.\\"  <br /> <br /> The book has a decidedly conservative evangelical perspective, including a lack of attention to inclusive language (God is always \\"He\\").  This work may provide a good introductory text for Christian and parochial high schools or a college religion course. But we'll have to continue to wait for a more critical contemporary review treatment of the history and philosophy of Christian education for advanced programs of study.  <br />	2005-03-24
US	52895367	R6YO7VWFM8RR6	0801026288	136743270	Family in the Bible: Exploring Customs, Culture, and Context	Books	5	9	9	N	N	A new standard text.	The title of this concise book says it all. Coming from an evangelical orientation, the collection of essays in this book on the family focus on (no pun intended) the depiction of the family in the varied times and contexts of the biblical canon. While the book itself is not organized thematically-there are, logically, two parts: Part 1: Family in the Old Testament, and Part 2: Family in the New Testament-some of the contributing writers do approach their treatment thematically. The chapters provide responsible reviews of the biblical content when it pertains to families, describing, but also interpreting, the ways that the family is understood in the section of the Bible under review. The family, as a social unit, is presented in the cultural contexts of the grand scope of the ever-evolving biblical worldviews in the canon. The writing is impressively tight, consistently so, allowing for a rich biblical background resource in a short 175 pages.  <br /> <br /> Some will undoubtedly be disappointed at a lack of an overall definitive statement about what the Bible has to say about families today-in social, political, ecclesial, or theological contexts. Only one contributor to the volume strays long enough from the biblical evidence to address at any length issues related to, for example, feminist interpretations of the family in scripture. In fact, in the one chapter that a contributor attempted to provide implications for the contemporary family, the statements come across as an overreach of the text and its message. The editors seem content to allow the treatment on the family to remain focused in the text and its context. As such, the conclusions offered in most chapters are short on interpretation and implications for the contemporary family. For those needing more, this may lead to an assumption that the Bible has nothing to say about families for the contemporary world. But that would be a misunderstanding of both the intent and message of this book.  <br /> <br/> This is a worthy contribution to both biblical studies and fields whose main concern is the family and its place and role in society. The editorial light touch has ensured that the contributors' personal voices contribute to the uniqueness and richness of this work. This is important, given the varied backgrounds of the writers, including England, Canada, Costa Rica, Japan, as well as the United States. This will become a standard work for every academic library.  <br />	2005-03-24
US	52895367	R1DUVB262S1QHG	0802827640	695204787	Universal Salvation?: The Current Debate	Books	5	96	99	N	N	A heady, responsible treatment.	Ambiguity is the devil's volleyball, said former President of Yale, Kingman Brewster, Jr. Robin A. Parry and Christopher H. Partridge's book, Universal Salvation? gives us a well matched game of back and forth with the theological hot potato that is at the heart of the book's \\"debate.\\" While the writers in this volume are articulate and responsible in handling this (again) current hot topic among evangelicals, if there is one null theme the critical reader may pick up is that the debate is fueled, in part, by the inherent ambiguity of the concept in the biblical text that all sides claim for their points of view. Biblical ambiguity is the one reality few seem ready to confess when conceding an opponent's point on the issue.  <br /> <br /> The volume's \\"debate\\" opens with three chapters (Part I) by Thomas Talbott, a professor of philosophy at Willamette University and an advocate of the universalist position (in effect, Talbott argues that Scripture teaches the ultimate salvation of all people, including those in Hell). His treatment and defense for this position is thorough, reasoned, and responsible. Though Talbott's case for universalism includes arguments from theology and a Pauline interpretation of relevant texts, the strength of his argument is philosophical. His logical treatment of theological thoughts on the subject is exemplary and rigorous. Neither Talbott nor the writers who respond adversarial to his views shy away from claiming the authority of the Bible, or the primacy of Scripture to inform theology, tradition, and reason to put forth their arguments.  <br /> <br /> The remaining part of the book (parts II to V) consists of rebuttals to Talbott's arguments by other evangelical scholars. The issue at hand receives treatment from biblical responses (I. Howard Marshall and Thomas Johnson), philosophical responses (Jerry Walls and Eric Reitan), theological responses (Daniel Strange and John Sanders), and historical responses (Morwenna Ludlow and David Hilborn & Don Horrocks). In these rebuttal chapters the writers evaluate both the strengths and weaknesses of Talbott's position, but also expand the conversation beyond the parameters of Talbott's original arguments. They provide a case for their own position on the issue of universal salvation. Some chapters bog down in minutia and pedantry, which is always a danger when treating a subject as complex as universal salvation-not to mention the ambiguous textual evidence for it. For those who are \\"set in their thinking\\" on the matter, exposure to that reality may prove unsettling-and indeed, these are scholars who are honestly wrestling with the ambiguity-though not silence-of Scripture on this issue of critical concern. But then, as Freud said, \\"Neurosis is the inability to tolerate ambiguity.\\" Some of the authors fall on one side of the argument or another, and others offer a mediating stance, proof enough that there is room for more dialogue on the issue. <br /> <br /> The book closes with a final chapter in which Talbott replies to his \\"interlocutors.\\" He is responsible, and gracious, in responding to the counter arguments and criticisms of his view from all fronts, theological, textual, historical, and philosophical, but takes full advantage in having the last word on the matter, at least in this volume. This is one of the most thorough and responsible treatments available of the issue of universal salvation-and its related issues-by evangelicals. A solid resource, highly recommended.  <br />	2005-03-24
US	52895367	R1E3V9OEXD7CE9	0801091608	474319947	Ancient-Future Evangelism: Making Your Church a Faith-Forming Community	Books	5	27	29	N	N	Webber provides a corrective	In this volume, Robert Webber, Myers Professor of Ministry at Northern Baptist Seminary continues the \\"ancient-future\\" theme from previous works, the Ancient-Future Worship website, Ancient-Future Faith, and anticipates the soon-to-be-released Ancient-Future Time. In this book Webber presents a model for evangelism and discipleship-and therein lies his worthy contribution to the subject of churches and evangelism: the authentic reclamation of evangelism as a vital part of what the church does as part of its disciple-making mission. Specifically, he reminds his readers that the Great Commission is \\"not only to evangelize, but to make disciples\\" (p. 13). Part 1 provides a historical survey of evangelism in the church, and then reclaims the early church traditions for the contemporary church. He identifies four distinct stages of evangelism-conversion, discipleship, spiritual formation, and Christian vocation-and suggests three accompanying \\"ancient-future\\" rites of passage that can be adapted to any church tradition. <br /> In chapter 1 Webber provides a survey of how Christians have been evangelized and formed as disciples throughout the centuries. In chapter 2 he looks at the development of the process of Christian formation in the ancient church, while in chapter 3 he shows how the church may evangelize in today's world. Here Webber contributes significantly to the conversation on evangelism by stressing how evangelism happens by way of a community of faith.  <br /> The final three chapters in Part 1 explicate the process of discipleship formation (one he claims can happen within a six-month period) that comes after initial evangelism and conversion:  initial discipleship, introduction to the spiritual life, and Christian vocation. Webber argues that this approach is universally applicable in churches, regardless of culture or denomination.  <br /> In Part 2 Webber argues that the contemporary church exists in a culture that is very much like that of the first three centuries-a secular, non-Christian, narcissistic culture where an individualistic and ego-centric milieu has given rise to an eclectic spirituality. In this context, Christianity is perceived as just one kind of \\"spirituality\\" among many.  Weber demonstrates how the four-fold process of faith formation is interwoven with three informing theological principles: (1) Christ is victor over evil, (2) the church is a witness to God's salvation, and (3) worship is a witness to God's mission as accomplished in Jesus Christ.  <br /> Webber is intentional in the organization of the book, putting his description of the practice of making disciples first, before talking about matters theological. This is in keeping with his concept that \\"experience precedes reflection-an ancient principle that was reversed by modernity\\" (p. 16). Webber challenges churches to stop \\"reinventing\\" themselves in ways that accommodate the culture, and instead return to the countercultural vision of the community of faith as modeled by the early church. His prophetic challenge that the future of evangelism and Christian formation will take place in community (in contrast to traditionally individually-focused understandings of evangelism and conversion), alone is a message worth the price of the book. This is a worthy addition to the dialogue on evangelism, discipleship, and Christian faith formation.  <br />	2005-03-24
US	52895367	R2XW0G7UJUFILM	0800636465	846681614	Inscribing the Text: Sermons and Prayers of Walter Brueggemann	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Consistent Brueggemann	As anticipated, the book was a delight to read, more like a conversation with a companion over a couple of days than a brow-knitting exercise in academic critique. And, writing a review is worth the price of the experience.  <br /> <br /> This collection of prayers and sermons by Walter Brueggemann, now Professor Emeritus of Old Testament in the William Marcellus McPheeters Chair at Columbia Theological Seminary, is a companion volume to an earlier collection by the same publisher, Awed to Heaven, Rooted in Earth (2003). Those readers who are familiar with Brueggemann's works (there is a plethora to choose from, the man is an industry unto himself) know with anticipation that this work too can only be good.  <br /> <br /> The sermons are wide-ranging in themes, scripture text, and occasion. The original context of these sermons range from chapel addresses to colloquia presentations; from congregational sermons to lecture series events; from homiletic conferences to the 100th  anniversary of the author's home church (Peace UCC in Tilden, Nebraska). These sermons have a characteristic Brueggemann style in their construction, movement, and structure, and those who have heard the author speak will hear the echo of the spoken voice throughout. There are twenty-three sermons and twenty five prayers, and the book concludes with a helpful index of biblical references. <br /> <br />   The first chapter of the book (though not designated as such) is a paper presented at the Festival of Homiletics in Chicago in 2002 (originally appearing in the Scottish Journal of Theology and revised for this volume). This essay, itself titled \\"The Preacher as Scribe\\" provides the title of the book. In this piece Brueggemann challenges preachers to \\"speak truth to power,\\" but not by influence of office or personality or skill, but rather, through respecting the power of the text to do so. He concludes, \\"The text is a voice of truth, albeit an elusive one. Yet when text-time is well managed, truth does speak to power-but not through the advocacy of the preacher.\\"  (p. 17).  <br /> <br />The sermons are model exposition, without being expository, with a decidedly didactic element to them. In these sermons Brueggemann models how it is possible to stay close to the text while providing both an authentic and contemporary interpretation and the prophetic function that is sorely needed in today's pulpits. <br />	2005-03-24
US	52895367	R3BEGEQ4CB0XG7	0664226108	128363849	The Gospel According to Tolkien: Visions of the Kingdom in Middle-earth	Books	5	41	42	N	N	A good companion.	The plethora of books with a variant of the title \\"The Gospel According To ...\\" continues to fill bookshelves and entice the unwary buyer into reading some attempt to shoehorn popular culture into the biblical message. The earliest of this genre that I can recall was The Gospel According to Peanuts (still in print since 1965), after the popular cartoon strip by the late Charles Schultz. Being a confessing Christian, Mr. Schultz did on occasion openly present a Christian message through his syndicated strip-the most famous and endearing being the rendition by the blanket-hugging Linus of Luke's birth narrative in Schultz' animated Christmas television feature. Today we have our choice of The Gospel According to Dr. Seuz, The Gospel According to The Simpsons, The Gospel According to Harry Potter, The Gospel According to Disney, and The Gospel According to The Sopranos (I'm not making that last one up, really). <br /> <br /> Ralph C. Wood, professor of theology and literature at Baylor University, has now added to that collection The Gospel According to Tolkien. It is arguably the only volume that can legitimately make a claim to that title, for as Wood ably demonstrates, Tolkien's corpus is implicitly, but authentically, Christian. Tolkien's Middle Earth trilogy has experienced a rediscovery, if not a revival, among a wider audience due to Peter Jackson's brilliant movie interpretation of The Lord of the Rings, so the timing of this publication could not have been more strategic. <br /> <br /> Wood presents an accessible theological interpretation to The Lord of the Rings material, though he draws from Tolkien's entire corpus of writings, from works like The Silmarillion, The Hobbit, as well as letters and essays, in which Tolkien provides the background and history of the mythic Middle Earth as well as commentary on the nature and purpose of the literary genre in which he worked. This background material is in evidence especially in the first two chapters of the bookin Wood's treatment of the themes of creation, the Fall (both of the mythic world of Tolkien and of the real world), the nature of sin (\\"iniquity\\") and evil. Subsequent chapters stay closer to the more familiar Middle Earth material of The Hobbit and The Lord of the Rings.  These later chapters deal with the themes of good and evil, and Tolkien's vision of the Kingdom. The most valuable contribution of this book, I believe, is Wood's treatment of the redeeming virtues in the panoramic drama of Tolkien's world and ours. Specifically, his treatment of the four cardinal virtues: prudence, justice, courage, and temperance-as well as his treatment on Tolkien's concepts of eucatostrophes, community, and the nature of stories-serve in an authentic way to connect the dots between Tolkien's dense cosmology and the Christian faith.  <br /> <br /> For those wishing to delve into the informing Christian theology that plays out behind the curtain of Tolkien's dramatic trilogy, or for those who want an overtly Christian introduction to the epic story of The Lord of the Rings, there is unlikely a better resource to be found. Wood's book will not only help introduce the reader to the theological world of Tolkien's Middle Earth, but will provide insight into the importance of stories-of good stories-to our ability to understand the Gospel message.  <br />	2005-03-24
US	52895367	R1074G3K8NRLLS	8780877370	23256900	Communicating Jesus Way	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Communication theory and Christianity	This is a revision of the 1979 edition by the same title and is Kraft's third book on communication. The book presents basic thoughts on communication theory and relates them to the specific context of Christian teaching and preaching. The book is short (seven brief chapters and a one page bibliography) and the content is straightforward and presented in outline form. <br /> <br /> While the content can only be considered \\"basic,\\" it is the type of information that is worth repeating, and being reminded of often. As such the book proves to be a valuable resource of essential communication theory for pastors, students, and teachers. At the heart of Kraft's message of communication in the Christian context is the relational nature of communication. This view is informed by the incarnational nature of God's communication to the world through Jesus Christ. As the title of the book suggests, Kraft them explores connected implications of the ways of communication used by Jesus. <br /> <br /> After presenting an incarnational emphasis to understanding the nature of communication, the book addresses communication from a practical information-processing view. But the strength of the book is found in Kraft's treatment of the process of communication and meaning-making. Here he goes beyond most treatments of information-processing models of communication and addresses the relationship between language, culture, and the individual's process of meaning-making. He concludes this section with a list of specific implications for Christian communication. Though the treatment of these implications is brief, it provides a most significant challenge to thinking about communication and the Christian faith.  By way of summarizing the book, Kraft concludes with a new chapter on communication \\"myths.\\"  <br />	2005-03-24
US	52895367	R1QIJ0JEI45X75	0801027225	434648947	The American Church Experience: A Concise History	Books	5	7	7	N	N	A great resource.	After I graduated from seminary I followed up on my promise to myself to read all those books I never got around to reading because of the interruptions of course schedules and meeting class requirements (it's a promise that seems never-ending, for, as the Preacher said, \\"of the publishing of books there is no end.\\"). At one point I took up the reading of the two-volume set on the history of Christianity by Kenneth Scott Latourette. They remain on my bookshelf today-marked up, underscored, dog-eared, and full of notations. I remain aghast at the tenacity of my younger self to see that exercise through. While reading over 1500 pages of an obsessively comprehensive history in small dense type may be, in itself, an accomplishment, after a while, comprehension and recall took a back seat to the sheer force of will to get through that volume of information.  <br /> <br /> Reading Askew and Pierard's The American Church Experience brought back some memories of that misguided experience in pedantry, in this instance, they were all good. Their subtitle, A Concise History is apropos-part of what makes this book a delight to read is the elegant economy of words and straightforward prose.  <br /> <br /> The book would have been well-served by an Introduction. The content chapters are bookended by a Preface and an Epilogue that make the now seeming de rigour, but here unsatisfactory, allusions to September 11, 2001. The twenty chapters of the book fall under the organization of five parts: The Old World Heritage, which provides a background history, up to the Reformation, for the American religious history; Colonial Foundations (1607-1783) covering the initial migrations to North America up till to American Revolution and its immediate aftermath; The Nationalization and Expansion of the Churches (1784-1860), which covers the Second Great Awakening and emerging new groups, denominations, and social orders; Disruption, Devotion, and Debate (1861-1916) which covers the rise of evangelicalism, fundamentalism, regionalism, and the emergent international missionary movements; and The Churches in a Pluralistic Society (1917-Present), which does a more than fair job of recognizing the contribution and impact of ethnic Christianity and globalization on the American church experience. Throughout the book the authors include photos of personalities, events, and moments referred to in the text.  <br /> <br /> This is a comprehensive work that strives for balanced coverage but ultimately retains a decidedly evangelical Protestant orientation. Only in a few instances did the authors fail to avoid overstatements and generalizations, which is a hazard in trying to produce a short volume with such historical coverage. Overall, the precise and uncomplicated writing style is one of the book's strength-this is part of what makes this work a delight to read. Askew and Pierard have made a welcomed contribution to the field of American religious history. I wish I'd had this book as a choice over Latourette, way back when; my comprehension of the movement of American Christianity would have no doubt been much better.  <br />	2005-03-24
US	52895367	R35EZKVEPTSVYA	0802821103	525557803	The First Christian: Universal Truth in the Teachings of Jesus	Books	5	9	11	N	N	Picking a (good) fight.	Given an unfair choice between understanding Jesus as a first century Jew, or Jesus as a Christian, Paul F. M. Zahl, dean of the Cathedral of the Advent (Episcopal), would probably choose Jesus as the original, \\"first\\" Christian. He suggests as much in the title of this provocative short work.  <br /> <br /> Zahl's small but rich book deals with the fundamental questions surrounding the relationship of Christianity to its mother faith, Judaism, and more specifically, the relation of Jesus of Nazareth to first century Judaism. Zahl attempts to provide a corrective to what he sees as the prevailing re-judaizing and re-culturation of the founder of the Christian faith, Jesus of Nazareth. This tendency, he believes, has been motivated by a shared Christian \\"Holocaust guilt\\" and results in a contextualized second-century historical figure that is inadequate to the realities of the unique claims of both the founder and the faith or Christianity. <br /> <br /> Zahl claims that \\"what has occurred within wide sectors of Christian self-understanding since 1945 has been so to detach the Jesus of history from the Christ of faith that it has become hard to say whether the Christ whom Christians worship is the same as the rabbi Jesus who taught and lived in a specific time and place.\\" (p. 5). The result of this has been the tendency to understand Christianity as a variant of first-century Judaism, not much different in substance from the norms of Jewish ethical teachings and monotheistic belief. In the end, the risk is, as Zahl sees it, that Christianity becomes \\"a form of Judaism for non-Jews\\" (p. 5).   <br /> <br /> The corrective for this inaccurate understanding of Christianity is to understand its founder, Jesus of Nazareth, as uniquely Christian and discontinuous with his contemporary Second Temple Judaism. It is this discontinuity, claims Zahl, that becomes the centrifugal force of the movement that ultimately became the Christian church. As such, Zahl emphasizes that Jesus of Nazareth was indeed, \\"the first Christian\\" who was at the center of this centrifugal dynamic.  <br /> <br /> Zahl is not unaware, nor insensitive, to the potential discomfort that a position of choosing to understand and interpret Jesus as uniquely and overtly Christian over his ethnicity may cause. He handles those objections not only through acknowledging the risk involved, but more importantly, through the courageous commitment to theological and scholarly discipline.    <br /> <br /> The early chapters of the book contain the groundwork for the treatment of Jesus as the first Christian. They include a survey of the search for the historical Jesus movements, a responsible and balanced treatment of Jesus as a first century Jew and as a religious figure who shaped a unique eschatology that led, naturally, to a discontinuity with the Jewish religion of his time. The heart of Zahl's arguments is found in the subsequent chapters titled, \\"Jesus the Christian\\" and \\"The Centrifugal Force of Jesus the Christian.\\"  <br /> <br />This is a readable but responsible treatment of an important, often complex, subject. Zahl provides a stellar example of responsible scholarship and theological thinking.   <br /> <br />	2005-03-24
US	52895367	R1VAEZVH05B3TE	0801026903	881407487	Reviewing Leadership: A Christian Evaluation of Current Approaches (Engaging Culture)	Books	5	25	27	N	N	A good resource.	It seems that the number of books put out by publishers, in any number of fields, will not be abetting anytime soon. Whether or not that is a good thing may be a matter of debate. Some subjects are worth discussing at length, because trawling for deeper meanings or drawing out the nuances of the matter yield more insight and expand our understanding with each new layer of data-whether by contrasting it against the hard edge of another discipline or by the overlay of the veneer of a new metaphor. But some subjects, once having been examined, leave one with the impression that \\"everything that needs to be said has been said.\\"  <br /> <br /> Robert Banks and Bernice M. Ledbetter think that the subject of leadership is one of those topics worth revisiting, and they do so in their book, Reviewing Leadership, much to our benefit. In this short book, Banks and Ledbetter do two things. First, they briefly introduce the reader to \\"everything that needs to be said that has been said\\" about leadership by providing a brief overview of how leadership has been treated and understood in what they categorize as biblical, historical, and contemporary perspectives (chapter two). Second, in the chapters following, they attempt to bring an ethical lens to the subject of leadership through a Christian perspective, beginning with \\"spiritual and religious dimensions\\" (chapter three) to a more overt Christian understanding of the leadership function in the final chapter through the use of \\"exemplary case studies\\" of Christian leadership in action (refreshingly, and tellingly, none of the persons featured in the case studies would likely be the first, or second, guess of most contemporary leaders or informed laity as to \\"models of leadership.\\"). <br /> <br /> According to the writers, the book is \\"a summary of academic approaches and concrete experiences. It is a fruit of biblical investigation and reflection on our own experiences. It is an exercise in cultural analysis and theological exploration. It is derived from current writings on leadership and personal observations of exemplary role models. It has its basis in common sense and familiar proverbs and our exposure to film and poetry\\" (p. 11). And it is this confessed subjectivity that yields some of the (few) least helpful portions and conclusion in the book. The critical reader, however, will be able to overcome those sections and focus on some of the more substantive and insightful contributions the authors make in this study. <br /> <br /> The first two chapters provide a background to the study on leadership that the authors develop. The first chapter provides definitions and discussions on the nature of leadership and stakes a claim as to the importance of its study. In the second chapter the authors offer a brief historical interpretive overview of leadership, limiting the scope to a biblical context and to the last century. The brevity of the coverage leaves curious gaps in the scope of leadership studies, as well as an absence of mention of some arguably influential leadership theories and schools. <br /> <br /> Chapters three and four provide the unique contribution that the book makes to the subject at hand. In these chapters the authors attempt to highlight overt spiritual, theological, and religious dimensions of leadership. The treatment culminates in their attempt to frame, and critique, distinctly \\"Christian\\" approaches to leadership.  The fifth chapter discusses how to translate theories of leadership into practice through the advocacy of three ethical (Christian) dimensions: faithfulness, integrity, and a servant-like attitude. Following the chapter on case studies of model leaders (Franck Buchman, Soren Kierkegaard, Janet Hagberg, and Gordon Cosby), the book concludes with a a very brief chapter reflecting on how to nurture the kind of Christian leadership the authors advocate. <br /> <br /> While not containing everything that needs to be said on the subject of leadership, this book is a good companion addition to other solid, more thorough, books on leadership that may be on the readers' bookshelf.  <br />	2005-03-24
US	52895367	R2JQBVV81F40IN	1573123471	459638769	A Christian Educator's Book of Lists (Smyth & Helwys HELP! Books)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	A good resource and handy desk reference.	This is a handy resource! I spend 45 minutes just flipping through the book when I first got it. So far I've used the concise information found here to write a newsletter article, find an illustration for a lesson, check a fact without going through my files, and have used one list as the outline for a presentation.	2003-03-29
US	52895367	R3ARPVRZIUOIG6	1569714029	38354145	300	Books	4	0	1	N	Y	Dramatic and entertaining	Miller's interpretation of the epic battle of Thermopylae is dramatic and entertaining. Great art and a great story.	2002-06-28
US	52895367	RJDB5LEM8DNLN	0870126717	289866097	R.I.T.C.H: Stories and Journals for ""Ritch"" Living Without Perfection	Books	5	0	0	N	N	We're all different, we're all the same...	M. D. Stuart's honest portrayal of growing up &quot;different&quot; taps into that fragile human spot in all of us that makes us realize that despite our differences, quirks, handicaps, limitations, doubts and fears, we all share the same heart that makes us human. Hers is a courageous, humorous, and at times, impish heart--keen on observation and quick to find the joy of life even in the darkest of times. She has much to teach us.	2002-06-28
US	52895367	RQPRMFT7M2WPV	0801022886	22238440	Authentic Spirituality: Moving Beyond Mere Religion	Books	4	10	10	N	Y	Where the Holy Spirit fits into spirituality	Against the prevailing but uninformed notion that \\"I am spiritual, but not religious,\\" Barry L. Callen (professor of Christian studies at Anderson University, editor of the Wesleyan Theological Journal and founding editor of Anderson University Press) counters that religion and spirituality must coexist. In this book he demonstrates how religious practice and tradition are necessary for authentic Christian spirituality. <br /> Callen's stated purpose is \\"to show the way beyond dead orthodoxy to the authentic Christian faith of the heart, a faith that is both text anchored and Spirit enlivened\\" (p. 19). His approach in the principal chapters is to select language (terms) and teachings of the Bible on spirituality, relate them to key elements of the Christian year and them to connect those to the theological teaching of the Apostles Creed. Callen's audience is primarily the Evangelical Christian who may not be familiar with the traditional liturgy of the Christian Year and the Apostle's Creed that inform the spirituality of more Mainline traditions. As such, his approach is a bold attempt at reclaiming a richer heritage that can ground contemporary spirituality in Word and tradition.  <br />       Callen is a careful scholar and engaging writer, providing solid scholarship in the literature of spirituality, responsible hermeneutics, and a preacher's knack for storytelling. A strength of the author's approach is a careful attention to basic definitions of terms and concepts used (spirituality, Christian, religion, prayer, etc.). He relies on the critical works of ancient and modern authors on spirituality for these definitions, providing along the way a valuable introduction to the literature and writers on spirituality from a variety of traditions. Chapter one focuses on foundational issues of personal openness to God and to Christian tradition and heritage, and of God's openness to us throughout history. Chapters 2 to 7 focus on specific dimensions of the work of theSpirit, and how the resources of tradition, the Church Year, and the Apostle's Creed can be relevant tools and guides to tapping into the movements of the Spirit for a more authentic spirituality. The final chapter, \\"Truly Growing: Paths to Sanctification\\" provides ways and means for working at a maturing, authentic spirituality: Biblical models of spiritual growth, \\"Exercises, Fruits, and Gifts,\\" and the spiritual discipline of waiting. <br />      The book provides a sound introduction to Christian spirituality accessible to students and laypersons. The writing style is conversational with numerous illustrations and anecdotes-though often these may seem excessive, interrupting the narrative of the point at hand.  The author includes extensive historical and theological background, a glossary, a list of select spiritual leaders, extensive notes, and a bibliography.	2002-06-28
US	52895367	R2LEG1LFXMEAXZ	020530902X	241676942	The Elements of Style, Fourth Edition	Books	5	0	4	N	Y	The essential tool for writers and students	What? You don't have this one yet? This is THE essential tool for writer and student!	2002-06-28
US	52895367	R1DSKPU46C92IP	1569714029	38354145	300	Books	4	1	2	N	Y	Dramatic and entertaining	Miller's interpretation of the epic battle of Thermopylae is dramatic and entertaining. Great art and a great story.	2002-06-28
US	52895367	R1BTKXG03A1A27	0817013679	241922182	Urban Disciples: A Beginner's Guide to Serving God in the City	Books	4	10	10	N	N	A very useful workbook for missioners	Jenell Paris and Margot Eyring have prepared a most useful tool for those involved in missional efforts, whether leader or participant. Urban Disciples is a workbook for persons or teams participating in, or planning on engaging in, urban mission experiences. The content is adaptable for various kinds of missions groups, including, as listed by the authors, \\"church Bible study groups, college ministry groups, small groups, cell groups, urban plunge programs, short-term mission projects, urban ministry courses at seminaries and colleges, and people in the first years of long-term ministry.\\"<br /> The book consists of twenty-four lessons or sessions in five units. The units cover the themes: Beginnings, Learning and Ministering in the City, Growing in Faith, Building Community Together, Endings. There is no substantive content in either the units or the lessons that would help the reader shape a theology of missions, or to discover a biblical basis for missions. Rather, the book provides a more experiential approach to engaging in theological reflection on the experience of urban mission experiences. Each lesson or session moves the reader from scripture to life application with an additional emphasis on a prayer activity. A \\"Digging Deeper\\" section gives readers and leaders ideas for additional learning activities. Several of the learning activities are quite creative and imaginative and provide for excellent ways to engage missions participants to learn meaningful lessons through activities, questions, dialogue and interaction with their mission environment. An underlying assumption in the book is that to engage in missions means that one will not so much change the mission field and others, but that one will be changed through the experience. The structure of the learning experiences goes a long way to ensure that that insight is not lost on the participants.<br /> The book includes seven appendices, some potentially more helpful than others. The reviewer found \\"Appendix B: Important Contacts\\", for example, to be superfluous (one cannot imagine that someone away from home for an extended period of time would not take along a Daytimer or Palm Pilot with a list of \\"important contacts\\"). By contrast the appendices on \\"Learning from Important People and Places,\\" \\"Visiting a New Church,\\" and \\"Personal and Corporate Spiritual Disciplines,\\" are succinct but substantive.<br /> Urban Disciples is, overall, and excellent and much-needed resource for churches and missioner-sending agencies or groups. It provides a model for what is most lacking in the missions engagement experience: a structured and intentional approach to theological reflection on the meaning of the missions engagement experience.	2001-07-30
US	52895367	RWW84X0TJXJHB	157312298X	186732627	The Tree of All Hearts: Modern Parables for Teaching Faith	Books	5	0	0	N	Y	Great stories for teaching, preaching, or devotional reading	FROM THE BOOK JACKET:<br />&quot;If you are interested in learning important spiritual lessons in a most entertaining way, this book is for you. Modern parables are used to teach truths that are needed for today's Christian.&quot;   --Paul D. Feinberg, Professor of Biblical and Systematic Theology, Trinity Evangelical Divinity School<br />&quot;This collection of modern parables, like those Jesus told, breaks open the truths of love and grace in new ways. For those who seek to understand those truths and act on them in the contemporary world, their offering of original parables is a welcome gift.&quot;    --Mark Price, Editor of Bible, Reference, and Disciple Resources, Abingdon Press<br />&quot;The Tree of All Hearts is a good collection of parables that can help religious educators. As parables have always done, these stories simultaneously teach the simplest and most profound truths through the language of story and metaphor.&quot;   --John McLaughlin, Professional Storyteller, Founder of Storypower Workshops	2001-07-04
US	52895367	RSNKJ3IO9ZH0R	1928560016	338237558	Light in the Shadows: Meditations While Living with a Life-Threatening Illness	Books	5	7	7	N	N	A wonderful spiritual resource for difficult times.	Rarely do people want to talk about death and dying. This especially, and tragically, during the time when people most need to be free to talk about it: during the threat of a terminal illness. Hank Dunn's book is a  sensitive and hopeful book for those living into their dying. Dunn's  extensive experience as a chaplain in the presence of those who've walked  that journey is evident in these meditations: insightful, honest, and  hopeful. Elegant and poetic writing from the heart.	2000-07-27
US	52895367	R9EXW21DVWZWA	1928560008	794352665	Hard Choices for Loving People: CPR, Artificial Feeding, Comfort Measures Only and the Elderly Patient	Books	5	5	5	N	N	The best book of its kind.	As a former hospice chaplain, I appreciate Dunn's straighforward work. It is an invaluable resource for both professional caregivers and patients and their families. The &quot;hard choices&quot; are dealt with honestly and  thoroughly.       This is an informative guide that will provide the help  people in crises need at a time when they are most ready to listen.	2000-07-27
US	52895367	R1UHXR67BOGKG4	0316316962	226933679	The Tipping Point: How Little Things Can Make a Big Difference	Books	3	8	9	N	Y	Interesting, but not profound	This book is worth reading. The ideas are fascinating and the writing fun. It's a good place to start thinking about some potentially powerful concepts. But in the end, nothing new here that has not appeared in basic  texts on sociology, communication, and education.	2000-07-20
US	52895367	R1O6CS4CY7NY8Q	1551802384	611637840	Family Ties That Bind: A self-help guide to change through Family of Origin therapy (Personal Self-Help Series)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Good birth order book	Richardson's early book is one of the most reasonable and non-sensational treatments on birth order and family dynamics. Goes beyond focusing on individual traits or characteristics, he takes seriously the overarching  family systems theory that should inform any treatment on birth order.	2000-06-23
US	52895367	R2KF7CFNWJM638	0440506603	599818698	The Annotated H.P. Lovecraft	Books	4	1	4	N	N	The master of horror!	A scholarly tome on a master of the horror genre!  Yes! The selection of classic works by the master of horror, H. P. Lovecraft, alone is worth the book. The added bonus of thorough annotated entries makes this a  fascinating read for any hardcore HPL fan-and a great introduction for  those just discovering this unique old world writer.	2000-06-23
US	52895367	R2DUMNT69YX4HR	0933031688	862507909	A Cherokee Feast of Days: Daily Meditations	Books	5	4	6	N	N	Feed your soul!	Certainly one of the most elegant daily devotional books available today. Hifler is both poet and spiritual guide. This book is a real treat!	2000-06-23
US	52895367	R31VBKNE8YP1FZ	0800629558	745696226	Creating a Healthier Church: Family Systems Theory, Leadership and Congregational Life (Creative Pastoral Care and Counseling Series)	Books	5	10	11	N	N	A good start to systems	Richardson's book is one of the better introductions on the application of Bowen Family Systems Theory to congregational life. Well-written, it is thorough and substantive. A good first choice for those needing a solid  introduction to systems theory--though it's probably NOT a good substitute  for a good conference, workshop, or on-going group work on systems.	2000-06-23
US	52895367	R37IUPIVHNDHX0	0873190459	567184855	Plagiarism and The Culture War : The Writings of Martin Luther King, Jr, and Other Prominent Americans	Books	5	21	25	N	N	Sobering	Theodore Pappas' book is a devastating look at the state of academia and &quot;scholarship.&quot; The treatment of MLK, Jr's dissertation is especially troubling.	2000-06-23
US	52895367	R1P4X5D33232	0898620597	189420977	Generation to Generation: Family Process in Church and Synagogue	Books	5	7	8	N	N	A modern classic	Friedman's seminal work in the application of Bowen Family Systems Theory to congregational life (Jewish and Protestant) has become a modern classic. More than just &quot;theory&quot; Friedman's book offers examples of the  application through the lens of both pastor (rabbi) and therapist.  This  book provides the key to both healthy leadership and functional, healthy  religious systems.	2000-06-23
US	52895367	R16P6TQ27SK5VP	047134690X	108293753	Extraordinary Relationships: A New Way of Thinking About Human Interactions	Books	5	40	42	N	N	A first choice	Whenever I'm asked to recommend a book on systems theory, I suggest Gilbert's book. She does an excellent job of accurately covering the theory, but an added bonus is her clear writing style, which makes often  difficult concepts easier to digest. The book enjoys good organization. A  good first choice for anyone needing an introduction to Bowen Family  Systems Theory that focuses on relationships.	2000-06-23
US	52895367	R1Y44ZWU1QKX7J	0872139018	560860854	Understanding the Church: The Biblical Ideals for the 21st Century	Books	4	1	3	N	N	A good Bible college intro text	At this side of the millennial threshold, wading through the deepening waters of change, the issue of reexamining the nature and future of the church is foremost on the minds of theologians, church educators,  ministers, and denominational leaders. What will the church look like at  the midpoint of the next century? Will the structure of the church require  change to survive? Will the mission and functions of the church change?  Will the institutional church survive its own success or succumb to a  structure too rigid to adapt to the winds of change? Understanding the  Church sidesteps contemporary conversations of the sociological dynamics of  the church or the usual speculation as to generational shifts within the  body. Being a compilation of papers presented at a 1997 colloquium at Grace  Bible Chapel in St. Louis, Missouri, the book reviews basic questions about  the nature, structure, and functions of the church. The seven essays that  make up the chapters of the book do not stray far from the biblical text  for interpretations and prescriptions on rudimentary questions about the  church from a strictly Protestant theology.  The book begins with an almost  apologetic chapter on the necessity of maintaining the primacy of Scripture  in understanding the nature of the church and any interpretations as to her  form and function. This foundational chapter limits its understanding of  the church not only to a Protestant theology, but more, to that of the  Brethren Church (and even narrower, the Open Brethren, at that). This  self-limited understanding of the nature of the church is the book's  greatest weakness. The following chapters explore further the nature of the  church from a strictly biblical theology, and issues of the identity,  nature, and character of the local church versus the universal church. The  final two complementary chapters examine issues concerning the autonomy and  the interdependence of local churches. Rather than providing a new vision  for the church in the 21st century, the book offers up a 19th century  conservative evangelical biblical theology of the church typical of what  would be found in a sophomore year systematic theology course at a Bible  college. The \\"biblical ideal\\" for a 21st century church that appears in the  book's subtitle seems to be a call for a return to an idyllic \\"first  century church\\"-the yearning to return to the days of a fabled  ecclesiastical Camelot. Some will find comfort in the certitude that a  propositional systematic biblical understanding of the church provides.  Unfortunately, such a stance is inadequate in helping churches deal with  the overwhelming complexities that the church faces in the 21st century.	2000-06-23
US	52895367	R2MWDW23SUKS40	0898797713	807601198	How to Write a Book Proposal	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Sell your book!	One of the best \\"how to\\" books around. No-nonsense and direct. A must for every aspiring writer-I know, I followed Larsen's \\"how to\\" suggestions and my first book proposal was accepted!	2000-06-23
US	52895367	R1IBDPZJ2GCNQH	0898624401	795039433	Friedman's Fables	Books	5	38	39	N	N	Storytelling in the classic tradition	More parables than fables, Friedman's genius as a storyteller in the rabbinic tradition shines through. This collection of short fables are ingenious studies of human nature from a Family Systems point of view.  Though the book has many uses for teaching and therapy, its best use is  pure enjoyment!	2000-06-23
US	52895367	R1SE0DSR7VXWPO	078795134X	239434864	Becoming Adult, Becoming Christian : Adult Development and Christian Faith	Books	5	7	12	N	N	a fresh look at Christian vocation	Fowler's book contains some of the best material on Christian vocation available. His complex writing style can be both frustrating and fun.	2000-06-05
US	52895367	R1KBJENCFZTZQ3	1573227218	290811427	Amazing Grace: A Vocabulary of Faith	Books	3	3	7	N	N	Israel Galindo	If you've read other books by Norris and liked them, you'll probably like this one too. Though there were some gems here, most of the chapters were not. I found the book to be inconsistent in its depth. Too much of a mixed  bag to be a book I'll come back to often.	2000-06-04
US	52895367	RLV0YOU5GXP5X	1585790079	502440078	The Black Hole of Calcutta: A Reconstruction	Books	5	9	10	N	N	A great read!	I really didn't have time to read this book, given that I was in the middle of several projects. But once I started, I couldn't put it down. Good descriptive writing. Fascinating character studies pieced together  from contemporary sources. Makes an interesting study of leadership (or the  lack of it) and human nature. Dark and intriguing, especially because of  its historicity.	2000-06-04
US	52895367	R23FDZ8U8N2E02	1573121576	82168681	Making the Church Work: Converting the Church for the 21st Century	Books	5	3	3	N	N	A work to challenge the church	Hammett presents a well-articulated challenge for the church in his book. Beginning with an assessment of &quot;what's wrong,&quot; Hammett moves the reader toward theologically sound and practical ways for a more authentic  way of being and doing church in the 21st century. Highly recommended.	2000-04-22
US	52895367	R1X7XHV7KAJ4C9	0817013156	224436748	The Bible, Live: Experience-Centered Activities for Children	Books	5	6	6	N	Y	From the back cover	&quot;Israel Galindo's experience in teaching is a variety of settings has prepared him to write a needed addition to the field of curriculum for children. He addresses the sensory nature of learning for children so that  the children are engaged in creative activity and learn at the same time.  Addressing these topics biblically helps the children form opinions and  approach issues from a Christian perstpective.&quot; --Dr. Allen Jackson,  New Orleans Theological Seminary.<br />&quot;This book is a resource for those  adults wanting to bring meaningful experiences to children about their  church, home, family, and faith. A must for any adult working with children  in a faith community!&quot; --Jessica Shields Flowers, Director, Vienna  Baptist Children's Center<br />&quot;The educational approach used in The  Bible, Life! puts the emphasis on active learning, as opposed to teacher  performance. As children participate in their learning experience, the  teacher engages them in reflection and analysis by asking questions and  engaging them in conversation. In this way, children are not merely  entertained or &quot;kept busy&quot; by doing an activity. They learn to  reflect and make connections between what they do and what they are  learning about self, God, church, and faith.&quot; --From the Introduction.	2000-02-12
