US	52904888	R1T59HSDYRTFJN	0310205719	36906356	The Purpose Driven Life	Books	1	16	26	N	N	Misses the Mark Big Time As a Career or Passion Guide	I really must have missed something. I was under the impression that after 40 days I would be 100% positive what I was supposed to be when I grew up, otherwise known as finding my purpose. After the first five chapters I had the sinking feeling that I had been misled. Rather than a career guide, this is fundamentalist Christian rhetoric telling me nothing good is going to happen to me unless I love Rick Warren's version of God first. And you have to be a really big fan of eternal life, and have to want that, and that just doesn't fit me at all. I personally care too much about the lives of the people in the world right now and the immediate future to worry about whether I get some selfish reward after my time on earth is up.<br /><br />That having been said, the book is not without some redeeming qualities...as a religious study guide, not as a book to help you define your passion. It gets one star for that. I'd say the last eleven chapters, on dedicating one's life to service, are the only salvageable parts of the book. However, any literature on St. Francis of Assisi, or the wonderful book, \\"Living Faith Day by Day\\" by Debra K. Farrington, will tell you the same thing, more or less, only without the fundamentalist rhetoric.<br /><br />Maybe it's my fault. I bought the marked down book sight unseen because of the hype, and I took the title at its word, so to speak. I should have known better. I had no inkling of the evangelical nature of the book. There was nothing in the title or the back literature that suggested that one had to be a Christian to have a purpose-driven life.<br /><br />I would say that if you're not a fundamentalist or an Evangelical Christian, or if you are non-Christian, you will, like me, hate that you spent money on this book. I feel I've been duped, and this one's going in the dumpster.	2005-05-08
US	52904888	R1S0GXWSHHUK94	4770029993	768696247	The Very Small Home: Japanese Ideas for Living Well in Limited Space	Books	1	99	186	N	Y	Not My Idea of Small...or Attractive	I bought this book because of my interest in minimalism and Asian decor. I was looking forward to this book, and delayed my order for this to be released. Ultimately, I was disappointed by what I saw.<br /><br />I was hoping, based on the title of the book, that this would be a folio of very small spaces, &lt;1000 sq ft., such as the space I live in now. Turns out I was wrong. I personally would hate living in the spaces portrayed in this book. They're sterile, they're ugly, they're unnaturally clean, and worst of all, they're large! Some of these homes have three levels. Also, nothing about page after page of white walls, white sofas, and bare floors communicates \\"home\\" to me.<br /><br />I suppose I have a very different idea of what a very small home is supposed to be.  My idea of a very small space would be that of a cabin, condo, or cottage.<br /><br />Maybe it's a cultural thing. All the houses are Japanese, to say, actually in Japan, and I guess everybody there lives in white cubes. But, I'm American, and I love color! So while I was hoping to get ideas to how I might redecorate my own very small living space, I was disappointed. I suppose this is what comes from buying a brand new book that I haven't been able to go to a bookstore and thumb through yet.	2005-04-13
US	52904888	R2H39U2WFYCRJ5	0877736391	308807341	Indian Herbalogy of North America: The Definitive Guide to Native Medicinal Plants and Their Uses	Books	3	6	14	N	N	Why can't the editor spell?	This book gets serious stars taken off for unprofessionalism. It's one thing if the author can't spell, but her editor is supposed to catch her errors. This important practice can't hope to be taken seriously if the editor couldn't even spell the title of the book. The correct spelling is \\"herbology\\" and means the study of herbs. Geez.	2005-03-16
US	52904888	R3HCAMDNACDZCE	0321213483	785316594	InDesign CS for Macintosh and Windows	Books	2	18	25	N	N	Too Much [...] for the Beginner	I'm having to learn this on the job, and there's too much crammed in here. There's nothing to tell me how to undo the side panels, and how do you draw just a round-corner box?! For people like me who aren't even familiar with Quark, there's just too much to take in. A better book would be Robert Shufflebotham's InDesign in Easy Steps, [...] Thumbing through that, I found it less crammed, more white space, less information. Less is better when you're first learning, then if you want more information, a book like Quick Start might serve you better.	2005-02-09
US	52904888	R2BDPIN2QTVC4I	059512870X	834503066	How To Ruin The Perfect Child	Books	4	1	2	N	Y	Homemade Written All Over It	The story, I must say, is inventive. The characters are realistic, and one or two even have some powerful things to say. I thought it was great. It's a great way to while away a Sunday rainy afternoon next to a fire, it's not that long...the kind of book you read once and pass along to a good friend to read. However...<br /><br />I just wish it didn't look as if this book bypassed an editor or two before it went to press. I kept finding missing punctuation, incorrect word usage, and if one is going to be a writer this cannot be. There's a sample chapter of the next novel at the end of the book, and it's title is: \\"What Becomes of a Legacy: A peak at the follow up to How To Ruin The Perfect Child.\\" Peak?! It's the kind of thing I found throughout the book and felt I shouldn't have; how in the world can the author use a phrase like \\"de rigeur\\" and not know to use \\"throes\\" rather than \\"throws\\"?<br /><br />Even though these imperfections didn't really take away from the story, thank goodness, I found myself going \\"tsk\\" everytime I saw one...it just didn't have that look of professionalism I would have preferred. If this book makes a second printing, I hope they go through and correct the inconsistencies and flat-out grammatical errors. And at the very least, they should correct that homonym in the sequel's title before it goes to press!	2004-12-20
US	52904888	R2JL9WGY4F8ED2	1572435933	848830071	Jumble Fever (Jumbles)	Books	3	2	4	N	N	Too Easy!	I like puzzles with a little challenge to them...somehow even the more challenging Jumbles that were supposed to be toward the back were too easy for me! I hate solving the main puzzle before I get the words unscrambled!	2004-10-31
US	52904888	R91ZPZIUA4F4F	1400049199	543966950	The Fat Fallacy: The French Diet Secrets to Permanent Weight Loss	Books	4	33	58	N	N	Yes, there are Fat Europeans, too...	...and the French Chef Julia Child was no Vogue model. However,<br />I like the concepts in this book, and I'm going to try them. I have been doing Atkins since the summer of 2003, my &quot;summer of 42&quot;. I've lost 30 pounds. But, I missed my summer fruits, and I hate going to the store and seeing nothing but carbs I can't have!<br />I've never been a bread eater. But occasionally, I do like to make my whole wheat biscuits for myself and my friends, and I like the idea that I can now eat them without guilt or having to figure out how many carbs they are!<br />I hear what Mr. Clower is saying about the fake foods. However, as an Atkins follower, I've gotten so used to Splenda, I don't see myself weaning myself off of it anytime soon. I like to use it not only in my coffee, but in my lemonade and my, oops, unsweetened cherry Kool-Aid! I really needed to get my blood sugar down, and the Splenda has really helped me out in that regard. I'm keeping it for now.<br />I really do want to try what Mr. Clower suggests in the book. A lot of it appeals to me: I'm a fish eater, despite the fact that they say there are too many PCBs in it to be safe to eat every day, I want to eat my fish EVERY DAY. I'm time-challenged, and fresh fish is the fastest thing you can cook, especially for breakfast. I also love chicken. I've been using skinless chicken thighs exclusively for years. I've gotten to where I hate chicken skin now, so I won't be going back to unskinned. I absolutely hate beef, and I'm sorry if it hurts the economy if I don't eat steak and bread, but it's not for me at all. So, the FF diet is right up my alley philosophically-speaking.<br />I learned through Dr. Andrew Weil the health benefits of olive oil, and it has been years since I've had a hydrogenated oil product in my kitchen. I fry with extra virgin, I happen to like the taste it gives to even my biscuits. It's not the worst thing you can put in your food!<br />Where I'm going to have problems is the dairy products. I'm African-American, and lactose-intolerant (I've read where for some reason this goes hand-in-hand), which wasn't a problem because Atkins tells you to pretty much stay away from them. However, it's 100 degrees here in Oklahoma, and I like the occasional ice cream, just enough to not send me to the bathroom in pain. I agree 100% with Mr. Clowers endorsement of Breyer's Ice Cream, but you have to be careful, because for some unfathomable reason Breyers has started putting unnatural ingredients in some of their ice cream brands. Stick with the Breyers' Ice Cream in the BLACK BOXES, and you'll be safe.<br />Dr. Weil advises against margarine, too. I've used nothing but butter for years. I hate that you can't even find simple butter cookies in the stores anymore. And I love the idea of a bite of dark chocolate for dessert. And eating it the way my best friend taught me: get a Hershey Special Dark with Almond nugget and just slowly suck the chocolate away until you get to the nut...then crunch! Now THAT takes patience!<br />Eating in courses is tres impractical for me, a single person! But I can certainly learn to put the fork down and chew and take my time to eat. I wish they'd give me time to do that for lunch, though, at work!<br /><br />Losing the grazing habit will be hard. Atkins encourages snacking somewhat, as long as you fall within a prescribed limit of carbs per day. I'm going to have to reeducate my body to a new way of thinking about food.<br />Oddly enough, water isn't discussed at all in the book...it is critical in the Atkins/South Beach diet because of the ketone buildup, but I drink three 24 oz. sportspack of room-temperature spring water per day. However, I LOOOOVE coffee, and love to finish my day off with a nice, STRONG cup of it that I've pressed with my small French press which makes just enough for one cup.<br />In short, I think I'll like this approach because it correlates with a lifestyle I'd been leading anyway yet had been failing tolose weight at. I'd like to combine what's in this book with the New American Plate concept the cancer organizations are touting these days: one part protein, two parts vegetable product, kind of like &quot;the Zone&quot;, even for breakfast.<br />I've always hated low fat products, it seems obscenely unnatural, and you know what, my grandmother lived to be 92, butchered her own hogs and chickens, milked her own cow, grew her own vegetables, baked her own bread, and was thin as a rail. How do you argue with that? The older generation knew how to eat healthy, it is we youngsters who have strayed, and who are paying now with all these cancers and weight problems.lose weight at. I'd like to combine what's in this book with the New American Plate concept the cancer organizations are touting these days: one part protein, two parts vegetable product, kind of like &quot;the Zone&quot;, even for breakfast.<br />I've always hated low fat products, it seems obscenely unnatural, and you know what, my grandmother lived to be 92, butchered her own hogs and chickens, milked her own cow, grew her own vegetables, baked her own bread, and was thin as a rail. How do you argue with that? The older generation knew how to eat healthy, it is we youngsters who have strayed, and who are paying now with all these cancers and weight problems.	2004-07-19
US	52904888	R2EHELRLRTSVB	1587680270	357053021	Francis of Assisi: A Revolutionary Life	Books	5	16	17	N	Y	This One Compelled Me to Buy It...'Nuff Said	Usually, a historical text such as this one bores me to death with its &quot;educated&quot; language and more detail than one could ever care about. But today, while searching for a birthday gift for a friend who, like me, has been touched by the piety of Francis, I sat and read for an hour, and was compelled. I usually am especially intrigued by the relationship between Frances and his young proteg&eacute;, Clare. I was pleased to find a book that admitted that theirs was a love affair, albeit unconsummated, and pretty much in her mind, only; a situation I can relate to, unfortunately, only too well. Finally, here is a text that shows me what Francis was about, but doesn't seek to convert or evangelize. Detailed enough to clear up some things I may have read elsewhere without boring me with too much. When I got to the photographs in the center of the book, it was the photograph of the bones of Francis that brought home to me that this man did exist, and I found myself mourning his loss right there in the bookstore. When a book does that to me, I've got to have it.<br />Did we need another biography on Francis of Assisi? In my opinion, yes, we did, and this is the best of all of them. This is a book that, once I was able to try it, I bought it. Not at the bookstore in which I auditioned it, but here, at Amazon.com, where it was cheaper.	2004-03-13
US	52904888	RB3RMFIRRIX2C	1557046182	616436452	In America: A Portrait of the Film (Newmarket Shooting Script)	Books	1	1	26	N	N	False advertising	This is not a DVD; this is a paperback book about the movie. Shame on you, Amazon, for trying to fool the public! I'll review the real thing when it finally comes out.	2004-01-26
US	52904888	R2QB9785WB75WX	006621369X	690812118	Sweet Caroline: Last Child of Camelot	Books	5	13	14	N	N	Truthful Yet Sensitive	It can't be an easy thing, writing a biography of someone who's still alive. If, as is the case with singer Johnny Mathis, the author has to go through paid spin doctors who try to control what is and isn't told, getting a book together that's sensitive to the subject yet doesn't back down from the truth can be darn near impossible.<br />I read a third of this book while browsing in Target, and it was evident Mr. Andersen had exceptional access to confidantes and other sources to put this book together. I found it a very readable, fascinating view of a privileged little girl who adored her father and her little brother and had to absorb so much at a very young age. But this isn't a children's book; there's enough real life in this story to give even the hardened biography reader pause. I appreciate a biography of a living public figure that isn't all fluff and dander.<br />I appreciate what the author had to go through to put a book like this together, and I highly recommend it.	2003-12-11
US	52904888	RGH7JJSUMHI04	1580930727	962836508	The Risko Book	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Hirschfeld's Heir Apparent	I thought I'd reviewed this years ago, but maybe it was elsewhere. I love this book. I've been a fan of the late Al Hirschfeld for years, but here's a relatively new artist from New York who captures a little of that style but yet has his own. Well, the cover says it all! If you can look at the cover and not laugh, well, you're dead. The back cover will blow away any Diana Ross fan, as well. His caricature style is such that if you follow pop culture at all, you don't need to look at the index to see whom is who. Well, for me there were a couple that were unfamiliar. I thought he missed the mark with Michael Jordan, but nobody's perfect! The book is divided into TV, Style, Music, Thinkers, Film, Scandals, Media, Sports, Theater, and Politics. Nobody seems to be off limits with Risko. His artwork is just beautifully done on a technical level, and still there's humor in a lot of it. There's one piece in particular of singer Al Jarreau that's stunning--it's part Hirschfeld and part Picasso! It's hard to explain, really. If you've never seen a Risko, you just have to experience it for yourself. Buy this book! I can't say enough about this artist, and I can't wait for Volume Two!	2003-11-16
US	52904888	R3247H87AO495H	0867163968	150713766	To Live as Francis Lived: A Guide For Secular Franciscans (The Path of Franciscan Spirituality)	Books	5	59	83	N	Y	A Lot of Knowledge in a Small Book	As a non-Catholic, I find Francis of Assisi fascinating as a man who gave up the life he knew, with all its privileges, to live with as little as possible so as to serve the people as Christ did. So I was happy to find this easy-to-read book.<br />The book is divided into different sections consisting of &Ograve;reflections&Oacute;, which are what normal people call &Ograve;chapters&Oacute;.<br />The first section is called the &Ograve;Foundation&Oacute; which is, as the authors put it, &Ograve;Jesus Christ and no other.&Oacute; That says it all, doesnÕt it? Each reflection, such as &Ograve;The Grace of Christ&Oacute;, &Ograve;The Real Christ&Oacute;, &Ograve;Jesus Visible Today&Oacute;, &Ograve;Mary, Our Mother and Model&Oacute;, explains the different roles Christ plays in the Franciscan life.<br />The second section covers &Ograve;Conversion&Oacute;, the painful process we must endure if we are to throw away our old ways and adopt a new attitude. This is explored in reflections such as &Ograve;Penance: Turning to God and Away from Sin&Oacute;, &Ograve;The Poverty of Christ&Oacute;, &Ograve;The Poverty for the Kingdom&Oacute; (easily the hardest part of the conversion process), &Ograve;Humility Toward Others&Oacute;, &Ograve;A Life of Chastity&Oacute; (possibly the second hardest), and &Ograve;Youth, Hope for the Future&Oacute;.<br />The third section is a group of reflections on prayer. I found information here that hasnÕt been explained by anybody else as plainly before. You get into what is prayer, whatÕs it for, what are the ingredients? Then it goes into what I call the &Ograve;Catholic elements&Oacute; of liturgy and Eucharist.<br />The fourth set of reflections teaches the role of those who call themselves apostles, which we can do if we follow Jesus and help others do so as well. You learn how to see Christ in others, how to represent Christ to others (a personal Jesus, if you will), how to love ALL people, what is the role of family (however defined), whatÕs really involved in forgiveness, what exactly do we mean by &Ograve;justice&Oacute; (important this day and age), how to be a peacemaker, what is consumerism doing to the environment we are charged with caring for, what is the role of work, how are we to regard those with illnesses, and what perfect joy is all about.<br />At the end of each reflection, there are instruments for further study. You find questions for reflection&Oacute; to see if you understood the chapter, important &Ograve;applications to daily life&Oacute;, a prayer thatÕs relevant to the discussion, and you are also given scriptural and other references for each &Ograve;reflection&Oacute;.<br />By the end of the book you will have enough basic knowledge of what itÕs like to truly live as Francis lived to be able to decide whether to study further or abandon it. ItÕs a small book that can be covered in two afternoons. ItÕs a very plain-spoken book that opened my eyes about what devout religious life is all about.<br />As for me, I would have liked to have seen more mentioned about the other woman in FrancisÕ life, Clare of Assisi, and the roles of women in general in Franciscan life. Also, the book calls itself a guide to secular Franciscans, and that membership in the Catholic Church is required for Secular Franciscan Order. I take exception to that.<br />After all, what is being a Franciscan is all about? On the outset it means patterning your beliefs after those of the legendary Francis of Assisi, but in reality you are simply patterning your life after Christ. And you shouldnÕt have to join the Catholic Church or any other form of organized religion to do that.<br />So, to live as Francis lived is to live as Christ lived. CHRIST, not the hateful, misogynist, homophobic, and full-of-himself self-appointed apostle Paul. If I may paraphrase from the first chapter, as a friend of Francis your purpose is to respond to GodÕs love with TOTAL love of your own. This book puts you well on the path of doing just that, if you open your mind to what it has to say. Highly recommended.oing just that, if you open your mind to what it has to say. Highly recommended.	2003-06-01
US	52904888	R16IKJ0JCM5Y9Z	0471423270	938357392	Bush's Brain: How Karl Rove Made George W. Bush Presidential	Books	1	12	44	N	N	The subtitle should have been: The Lack Thereof.	Karl Rove wasted his time: you can't get blood from a turnip. Summarize as follows: Bush's brain has long atrophied from lack of use. Never let it be said that the government won't hire the mentally-challenged. This country is being run by advisors, not by the president, and it'll take years to undo what's been done around the world because of it. Don't buy this book looking for an explanation of this phenomenon, you'd get further studying labaratory rats.	2003-04-12
US	52904888	R3LAOW4ZBKJZMT	1588340554	901797046	Picturing Men: A Century of Male Relationships in Everyday American Photography	Books	3	5	70	N	Y	God, These Men Were Ugly	I bought this for my best friend who's gay. I almost hesitated doing so, the men in these photographs leave a WHOLE lot to be desired. He likes it, though, because he has a few of these old postcards, and is a photography buff to boot. So, I supposed just based on that, if someone you know shares that interest, they may like it.	2003-03-31
US	52904888	R3R0WJH4NRP8FG	0812062787	403452977	Container Plants: For Patios, Balconies, and Window Boxes	Books	5	14	14	N	Y	Simply the Best!	I found information on overwintering plumbagos that I couldn't find any place else. Focused on containering, no raised beds, no plant biology. It's informative, and the pictures make it entertaining to read, as well. Easy to read picture symbols let you know right away which plants need sun, and which need shade, how much water they need, and how much light they need. In the front there are seasonal suggestions for combining plants and how to make their suggestions. Yes, roses and hydrangeas grow in a tub! There's information on how to make chemical-free potions for your plants to take care of fungal infections, aphids, and mildew. And for the brave, you can start your patio collection from seed...helpful instructions show how. I've done them and trust me, if I can do it, anybody can!<br />I can't say enough about this book. I consider this book my container garden bible, and has been very useful for me in creating a garden environment on my 7x10 apartment patio in the Oklahoma City area! This is simply the best book I've seen on container gardening.	2003-03-02
US	52904888	R31J5W08JVX928	076210127X	672216657	The No-Garden Gardener	Books	3	34	35	N	Y	Container gardeners beware.	Several things turned me off about the book. First, it's seems very British for some reason. Second, it goes in to pages and pages and pages of assessing your situation, whether you are a blind gardener, \\"the importance of design\\", then gets into water gardens and water features, and raised beds. Suffice it to say that it didn't seem very geared toward the apartment owner with a 7x10 foot balcony!<br />It's not there isn't useful information in this book, but it's about plants in general, though. This is not totally geared toward the container gardener. I guess that's said in the subtitle: Creating gardens on patios, balconies, terraces, AND IN OTHER SMALL SPACES. About 85 pages into the book, about types of hanging baskets, window boxes and other containers. Then it gets into container design where you choose compatible plant partnerships. But even here there's a little trouble, because the illustrations show plants that are NOT IN CONTAINERS but in a garden setting. From there you get into soils, how to propagate the plants, how to control pests (suggests picking off caterpillars will do...ewwww!),<br />I needed more from this book. I needed a book on containers and tha plants that grow well in them. One that talked about a wide variety of plants, especially those that grow well in my zone. I could care less about the parts of a plant and stuff I had in biology. In the very back, where it talks about \\"lack of space makes this plant list no more than a suggestion.\\" Well, if they hadn't filled it with [stuff] what was off-topic, there may well have been room to discuss more plants. The main problem with this book, in my opinion, is that it lacks focus.<br />Bottom line, I guess it depends on what you need out of this book. This book works well as a general plant care reference book, but if you need a book specifically on the special needs of plants in containers, I'd try another book. One that was more helpful to me, and one which I consider my own personal bible as far as container plants goes, is called Container Plants for Patios, Balconies, and Window Boxes by Halina Heitz, published by Barron's. I have plumbagos, and while there's no mention of them in the No-Garden Gardener, you'll find useful references to them there.far as container plants goes, is called Container Plants for Patios, Balconies, and Window Boxes by Halina Heitz, published by Barron's. I have plumbagos, and while there's no mention of them in the No-Garden Gardener, you'll find useful references to them there.	2003-03-02
US	52904888	R2I4IND23ILGAM	0891349545	96819450	Painting Portraits of Homes in Pen, Ink & Watercolor	Books	5	31	32	N	N	Don't Throw Away Your Old T-square!	A graphic artist of the old school, like myself, eats this kind of thing up. Using things like T-sqares and engineers rulers is like using my own hands, and to use them in an artistic manner to produce beautiful works of art gives these old tools new life.<br />Mrs. Haberstroh gives the best instruction possible by simply telling what SHE does to produce a painting, not what other people USUALLY do. All you have to do is follow what she does...then if you want to try a different style on your own, go for it!<br />You jump right in learning what tools you'll need; smooth Bristol board, she calls it plate finish; an engineer's ruler (meaning the pyramidic one the drafters use); 12\\" steel cork ruler with centimeters; T-square; 90&#730; transparent triangle; 4H pencil; graphite eraser (a soft white one like the Factis); circle template; rapidograph pen; quality ink eraser; 140 lb. cold-press, cotton rag watercolor paper (she uses Arches in blocks); brushes (1-inch flat, Nos. 10, 9, 7, and 3 round quality brushes); and watercolor paints, being careful of lightfastness of the reds and greens you use (she says Hookers green fades badly.)<br />She also uses distilled water because of the mineral problem in tap water, and handy items such as a medicine dropper for gradual lightening of pigment, mask or frisket, paper towels, and that all-important apron!<br />She uses a point and shoot 35mm with 200 speed film for sunny days and 400 speed film for cloudy days. She then shows how to pick the best view, shoot in the best light, and what to do with the details.<br />The fun begins with one pen-and-ink step-by-step demonstration, and two watercolor ones. If you can't follow her instructions, there's something wrong! She couldn't be clearer, and if you follow along using her own drawings, it's magical the way things take shape.<br />The thing is, you can't rush the process. No blow-dryer...the ink must dry 24-hours before applying watercolor! This type of painting calls for a lot of patience, and may not be for everybody.<br />Mrs. Haberstroh generously offers a lesson in architectural rendering by showing us how to render different elements of the house, like the window, garage door, siding, and bricks.<br />Finally, in case you DO want to try doing this for a living or a sideline, she shows you how to set up your studio and get your name out there.<br />Her methodical approach suits me to a T; while I'll not be going into \\"house painting\\" full-time, I've learned enough to produce a very nice Christmas present for a few close friends of mine that won't be taken back to Wal-Mart and exchanged, and that makes me very, very happy!of patience, and may not be for everybody.<br />Mrs. Haberstroh generously offers a lesson in architectural rendering by showing us how to render different elements of the house, like the window, garage door, siding, and bricks.<br />Finally, in case you DO want to try doing this for a living or a sideline, she shows you how to set up your studio and get your name out there.<br />Her methodical approach suits me to a T; while I'll not be going into \\"house painting\\" full-time, I've learned enough to produce a very nice Christmas present for a few close friends of mine that won't be taken back to Wal-Mart and exchanged, and that makes me very, very happy!	2003-01-29
US	52904888	R2AYKNKCGH6H3S	1885171617	790069467	Straight Women, Gay Men: Absolutely Fabulous Friendships	Books	3	6	9	N	N	Change the Name Back!	When I bought the first version of this book, called A Couple of Friends, back in '96 or '97, I didn't even know any gay people personally, and it came out well before the TV show about such relationships. I bought it because of my interest in learning more about gays since a singer I like is gay. I found it a very easy-to-read and insightful book, but it soon started collecting dust on my bookshelf for a few years.<br />About two years ago, purely by accident, I developed a close friendship with a gay man. When I discovered I still had the book this summer and re-read it, I was amazed about how closely the relationship between my friend and I gibed with what was in the book.<br />So, I wondered if my buddy had even heard of the book, and I thought it'd be a good idea if I gave it to him for Christmas! Well, I discovered to my disgust that they had changed the name, and therefore the focus of the book. Inside, it's more or less the same. Almost to be expected, there are new references to the sitcom Will and Grace, but that wasn't what bothered me about it. What bothered me was that the title they gave the revised version of the book focused on, I believe, the wrong aspect of these unique relationships. The old title, A Couple of Friends, focused on the friendship. In fact, the subtitle was,The Remarkable Friendship Between Straight Women and Gay Men. Friends in huge letters in the title, friends in the subtitle. And that's what my buddy and I have. We're just a couple of friends, and we do indeed have a remarkable friendship.<br />Compare that with the new title. Big letters: Straight Women, Gay Men. As if that's the most important thing about the relationship! Then, in little bitty letters: Absolutely Fabulous Friendships. Almost absolutely inconsequential.<br />I think this is wrong. Wrong, wrong, wrong. The whole point of the first book is that my orientation and his orientation (or for that matter, our races) don't matter between us. Even though they are the inescapable components in our lives and help shape how we relate to our worlds, our friendship comes FIRST.<br />So, I bought it, because I want my buddy to read what it has to say about us and other friendships like ours. I hope he likes it. I know for SURE that he'll have his own outspoken opinion about it either way! But I'm also tempted to find an older copy with the original title and picture, because I believe it was a little more to the point than this supposedly \\"updated\\" revision.<br />I hope that one day the publisher will realize that what we have as friends isn't to be trivialized for the sake of attention-grabbing commercialism (Straight Women! Gay Men! Oh, No!!), and will restore future revisions to the more appropriate emphasis on men and women who live in two different worlds and yet are the very best of friends.scapable components in our lives and help shape how we relate to our worlds, our friendship comes FIRST.<br />So, I bought it, because I want my buddy to read what it has to say about us and other friendships like ours. I hope he likes it. I know for SURE that he'll have his own outspoken opinion about it either way! But I'm also tempted to find an older copy with the original title and picture, because I believe it was a little more to the point than this supposedly \\"updated\\" revision.<br />I hope that one day the publisher will realize that what we have as friends isn't to be trivialized for the sake of attention-grabbing commercialism (Straight Women! Gay Men! Oh, No!!), and will restore future revisions to the more appropriate emphasis on men and women who live in two different worlds and yet are the very best of friends.	2002-12-18
US	52904888	R1BITX97V8AVD7	0385492707	221350941	A Love of My Own: A Novel	Books	2	1	3	N	Y	This is too hard to read	I bought this book on 8/12/02, and now it's November and I still haven't gotten past the second chapter. It's as if I hit a wall, and couldn't go any further.<br />I like a book that has a story. Beginning, middle, end. I have a writing book that says you should only have ONE main character. This book broke that rule right off. First you're reading about one character, then you're reading about another one...there's no structure. I'm afraid I just can't handle episodic writing. It's as if Lynn Harris was writing a script for a soap opera instead of a novel.<br />I own two books by E. Lynn Harris: his first, Invisible Life, and this one. The first was the best by a long shot. While it's interesting how some of the characters from that first novel had evolved...they alone couldn't hold my interest in this book. Sorry, Mr. Harris, maybe next time.	2002-11-18
US	52904888	RO2SW5UMFUGA3	0201627248	223921757	Daughters: On Family And Fatherhood	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Little Girls Love Their Daddies...	...whether they grow up with them around or not. If today's young people could only understand that. Even a girl without a father may wonder, whether she realizes it herself eventually or not, what kind of a person she shares her chromosomes with. Luckily, Linnet and Rosalind don't have to wonder.<br />This book is a dad's-eye view of his girls, but even more remarkably, it's a girl's-eye view of their father, as told by the father. The author does a great job of presenting both sides, and of showing not only his daughters' growth, but his own.<br />And woven throughout the book like a black thread in a tartan skirt is the everyday dealings with race. Each member has their own very poignant coping mechanisms, and the truth isn't always very pretty to read. Still, I recommend the book, because it illustrates the special understanding a man can have of his girls and vice-versa.	2002-10-30
US	52904888	RIDUQFSBTR5J	0816190534	325690548	The Women's Travel Guide: 25 American Cities	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Still Timely After All These Years	This book has maintained its timeliness even in the new millennium. Sure, some or all of the prices have changed in the last 15 years, and you won't be visiting the Observation Deck of the South Tower of the World Trade Center anymore when you go to New York City on business. But the advice it gives to women, such as how to dress, which hotels meet our needs, and how to keep safe in each of these cities, is right on. I consult this book even now for all my long-distance American travel.	2002-08-29
US	52904888	R2QYJ1F99F8K38	0452278341	945662165	The Lessons of Saint Francis: How to Bring Simplicity and Spirituality into Your Daily Life	Books	5	18	49	N	Y	It's a Shame People Call Him a Catholic...	John Michael Talbot's little book goes with me everywhere I go. I am nowhere NEAR being a Catholic and never will be, but I have to say that in just a few short chapters, I've learned where mainstream Christianity goes horribly wrong. Most important are the chapters on Service, Prayer, and Humility. If we get just these three right, we will have come a long way. I'm sorry Francis is considered a Catholic; it's not a good time to be one this day and age, but if there were more like him there wouldn't be much problem. That having been said, there is the interesting section on his friend and disciple Clare, whom he didn't even want to look at, yet considered an equal? I'm off to look for a similar book on her life and teachings; in the meantime, I'll keep this unanimous and give it five stars, because I recommend this book to anyone, Catholic or not. I believe it'll give the reader plenty of food for thought.	2002-07-26
US	52904888	R2OHUBMVKKZIN9	0385497318	48396968	Eight Steps to Seven Figures: The Investment Strategies of Everyday Millionaires and How You Can Become Wealthy Too	Books	3	25	36	N	N	A Post-Enron Analysis	Since this book has Enron's phone number in the appendix, I thought I'd share my views on some of the points raised in this book.<br />1) I have NEVER been a fan of 401K. As the Enron employees found out, they are not a fail-safe investment. You don't have any say-so in the stock selection or even choose if you want a load or no-load fund to put your money in. And it is apparently very easy for the company to make off with your funds leaving you very little recourse.<br />2) I would advise the reader not to pay all that much attention to the recommended \\"must-have\\" stocks, even though he only had one or two real losers in the bunch (Lucent, Tribune). I believe it would be more effective if maybe sectors were chosen, then use Carlson's advice on how to choose your favorite stocks wisely. Carlson says to know your strengths and weaknesses and interests as an investor and invest either in index funds or individual stocks, or some combination of both, so I go along with the need for personal interest, or buying from companies whose products you actually use yourself. He lists entertainment/media, health care, information services, financial services, retailing, consumer products/services, technology, telecommunications, and energy (thank goodness, he didn't recommend Enron here). I think I would add the transportation sector, but for some reason that one isn't discussed. And I wish I had chosen an index fund instead of my Strong funds. Luckily I did not invest all my eggs in that basket.<br />4) I really hate the \\"limit shocks to your finances\\" chapter. I couldn't believe there was a chapter that suggested one avoided having children or taking care of one's elderly parents. What's wrong with this picture? Job-hopping and divorce are also considered shocks to the seven-figure dream. On the other hand, these things are a pretty good shock to the five-figure income, as well! I also believe that higher education is a financial pit worth avoiding unless you absolutely need it. I know too many people with an expensive piece of paper on the wall and not using it. Carlson feels that education levels correlate strongly with future earnings. I believe future earnings depend upon whom you know at the company you work at, so I guess we'll have to agree to disagree on that point!<br />I guess the real problem I have with parts of this book is not only a post-Enron attitude but a post- 911 attitude as well. At the time I bought this book, I certainly wanted to find out how to make more money than I was. However, these days being a millionaire just isn't a goal for me. Being healthy, happy, and loved are better goals for me, I think. When a book comes out with a title something like \\"Eight Steps to Six Figures, And Being Happy With What You Have Afterwards\\", I think I'd rather buy that one instead. In the meantime, I can't say this book wasn't informative for me, and if I HAD to pick a stock, I believe I can now do so with confidence. But I really think I'll put my book up for sale!t. I know too many people with an expensive piece of paper on the wall and not using it. Carlson feels that education levels correlate strongly with future earnings. I believe future earnings depend upon whom you know at the company you work at, so I guess we'll have to agree to disagree on that point!<br />I guess the real problem I have with parts of this book is not only a post-Enron attitude but a post- 911 attitude as well. At the time I bought this book, I certainly wanted to find out how to make more money than I was. However, these days being a millionaire just isn't a goal for me. Being healthy, happy, and loved are better goals for me, I think. When a book comes out with a title something like \\"Eight Steps to Six Figures, And Being Happy With What You Have Afterwards\\", I think I'd rather buy that one instead. In the meantime, I can't say this book wasn't informative for me, and if I HAD to pick a stock, I believe I can now do so with confidence. But I really think I'll put my book up for sale!	2002-03-14
US	52904888	R1BDD330JSBETT	0966469119	532929389	Rental Houses for the Successful Small Investor	Books	4	3	17	N	Y	Neither of these are high literature...	However, if I were to compare the this book with &quot;How to Retire With a Million Dollars&quot; by Elaine Zimmerman, I'd say it was a virtual tie.	2002-01-18
US	52904888	R6YQHJ4T6A521	0967059844	823604772	The Well-Fed Writer: Financial Self-Sufficiency As a Freelance Writer in Six Months or Less	Books	3	16	25	N	N	Just A Few Things Lacking	Here are some things I would have liked to have seen in The Well-Fed Writer:<br />1) How to start a writing business, or even how Mr. Bowerman started one. Instead of the cop-out of &quot;hire an accountant and they can tell you how to do this in your state,&quot; how about an anecdote, since the book is full of them, of how he chose the name of his business, whether he applied for a resale number, and  whether he had to look around for an apartment that was in the right commercial zone BEFORE he started the cold calling in Chapter 6's &quot;Let's Get Started.&quot;<br />2) I would have liked to have seen more on how to deal with the rude client--you know, the kind who feels they can treat you however they like because they know you need their business! In a larger metro area maybe the pickin's aren't as slim, but if you don't live in as large a metro area as NYC or even Atlanta, you have to deal with people who KNOW you need them as much if not more than they need you!<br />3) It would be nice if an appendix could be supplied for the minority writer, one that discusses how being a person of color might affect the success of their business.<br />4) I wish there could have been some mention about the non-commercial writer (is there such a thing?). The kind of writers people think of when the word &quot;writer&quot; is mentioned: the magazine article writer, the novelist, even the journalist. Surely there can be a way for the creative writer to add his/her talents to create a niche market along with the business-related writing jobs.<br />5) Then there's writing. There isn't as much discussion of writing as I would have liked. I'm thinking the author assumes you already know how or, as I believe he put it, you already write better than a lot of your potential clients. Right. I would have liked to have seen maybe some references to good correspondence courses to sharpen your skills with. I would have also liked to have seen some mention of the special problems involved in writing in a language other than English.<br />On a positive note, what I loved about the book are the samples in the back! They give many good ideas about what areas writers are needed. It had never occurred to me that all those lovely PBS documentaries that I love by David McCullough and Ken Burns need writers to create the scripts for them!<br />I also like the idea of pro bono work. After Sept. 11, there are a lot of things that aren't as important as they once were, and some things that are even more important, and I like the idea of using writing to help people, rather than using writing to help someone sell something somebody probably doesn't need anyway to someone who can't afford to or doesn't really need to buy it.<br />Overall, I feel it's a good book, but not a be-all, end-all publication. It's one guy's experiences, and it has lots of good advice.in writing in a language other than English.<br />On a positive note, what I loved about the book are the samples in the back! They give many good ideas about what areas writers are needed. It had never occurred to me that all those lovely PBS documentaries that I love by David McCullough and Ken Burns need writers to create the scripts for them!<br />I also like the idea of pro bono work. After Sept. 11, there are a lot of things that aren't as important as they once were, and some things that are even more important, and I like the idea of using writing to help people, rather than using writing to help someone sell something somebody probably doesn't need anyway to someone who can't afford to or doesn't really need to buy it.<br />Overall, I feel it's a good book, but not a be-all, end-all publication. It's one guy's experiences, and it has lots of good advice.	2001-11-18
US	52904888	R1TJUBHMQM6Z6A	089879921X	294262710	Formatting & Submitting Your Manuscript (Writer's Market Library)	Books	2	8	11	N	Y	Very Disappointed	I'm an essay writer, and on the cover it says, &quot;A Visual Guide to Preparing and Presenting Your: Novels, Personal Essays, Articles and Proposals, Screenplays &amp; TV Scripts, Short Stories, Poetry, Children's Picture Books, Greeting Cards, and more.<br />Well, guess what. Absolutely doodly-squat about essays of any kind, much less personal ones. I'm upset because this is the reason I got the book, to give me a floorplan for submission of my essays.<br />I already have an excellent book on formatting submissions written by Mary Lynn called &quot;Every Page Perfect&quot;. I recommend this book; hers doesn't have anything on personal essays, either, but at least hers didn't SAY it did.<br />I don't give &quot;Formatting &amp; Submitting Your Manuscript&quot; one star, because the book does have good information in it, IF you don't have Mary's book. Plus, there is information on e-querying in it that's not in Mary's book because the edition I have was written pre-Internet.<br />The authors and Writer's Market dropped the ball as far as I'm concerned. Their cover amounts to false advertising.	2001-08-19
US	52904888	R2J0QK7DVM2NWX	0028634470	88559485	Places Rated Almanac (Special Millennium Edition)	Books	2	24	39	N	N	What about Diversity?	I brought this up in a letter I wrote to the authors a few years ago (pre-internet), and never got an answer. I moved over a year ago, and when I'm picking a new city or neighborhood, I look at the kinds of things most people do, such as what the weather's like, will I be able to do what I want to do for a living in this city, how bad is the traffic, will I be taxed to death, what is the quality of health care, what kind of cultural activities, how likely is it that I'll be mugged, etc. And I like the fact that this book makes that information available in an easy-to-read format for over 300 cities or so.<br />But I look for other things, as well; namely, are there people there like me? Are there people there who have the same faith as me? Will I be able to find a church home there? Are there people there who share my cultural or ethnic background? If so, what percentage of the population are they? Would a Jewish person, gay person, Asian person, whatever person, feel comfortable in this city? Are minorities well represented in city  government? How diverse are the schools?<br />Some people want to actively find cities, and neighborhoods, with a diverse population so that their children are exposed to a variety of cultures and lifestyles. I personally wish that the Places Rated Almanac had addressed that issue when they put their book together.  When I asked why this was so of the authors several years ago I got no reply. Sadly, with the new &quot;electronic&quot; edition of this book, it doesn't look as if things have changed much.<br />To make a good fit, you need all the pieces of the puzzle. This book leaves out a couple of major ones.	2001-08-02
US	52904888	R3RMVMIS45FYZ8	0812928407	277907944	A Girl Needs Cash: How to Take Charge of Your Financial Life	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Good Advice--But Be Careful Picking Investments	Any book which extolls independence from men, I'm for. I bought this book three years ago, and the best thing I've learned from it is the Rule of 72. (What is that? Read the book.)<br />I've since learned that there's more to picking investment vehicles than finding one you like and feeding it. If a person already has their &quot;dignity money&quot; built up and want to maintain it, that's the only time bonds and bond funds should be considered. If a person is still in the process of building assets, then use safe savings vehicles like money markets until enough is attained to start investing, after that only consider stocks and stock funds to invest in for growth. And watch out picking mutual funds! It involves more than choosing no-loads over loaded funds. For more information on this, I highly recommend another book, Eight Steps to Seven Figures by Charles B. Carlson.<br />I disagree with not waiting until credit debts are paid off before investing. A person must have something to invest WITH, after all! If a person has such serious cash flow problems that any cash they have must go to pay off these bills, it would to me be fooling to be sending off that money to an investment firm at the risk of losing a house or a vehicle. That person needs help, most of all they need discipline and less dependence on material things. I say clear the debt or at least bring it way down; then work on a savings plan, then work on an investment plan, in that order.<br />A girl does need cash, but in order to have that cash she's simply got to quit spending it. She needs discipline and faith in herself to meet her financial goals. Part of that discipline is not relying on others to take care of her financially, whether it's a man or other lover or the Federal Government or even the stock market. This book doesn't really tell the whole story in that regard, but I think it's a good start toward self-education.	2001-06-24
US	52904888	R1E3THQFUJWQE8	0486228185	388627366	Mary Thomas's Book of Knitting Patterns (Dover Knitting, Crochet, Tatting, Lace)	Books	3	6	118	N	N	Politically Incorrect, but Usable	Here's how a sentence in one of the chapters begins: &quot;The name Faggot Stitch immediately suggests the dainty embroidery used for fancy seaming on dresses, lingerie, etc...&quot; Statements like this and the sometimes cute, sometimes tasteless accompanying graphics diminish the appeal for me. On the plus side, this book is an experimenter's dream, and a person could go wild just making samplers from all the patterns, which range from easy to complex.	2001-06-23
US	52904888	R1HQAFD84UXK2F	0060392231	986298746	How to Retire with a Million Dollars	Books	4	8	8	N	Y	Not A Millionaire Yet...	...but on the other hand, I haven't bought my first property yet. What I'll grade on is readability, timeliness, and feasibility. Mrs. Z obviously knows her real estate, and I never thought about living in the property first before you make it a rental. Makes sense, why rent out to someone else a house you wouldn't want to live in yourself? I give her high marks for the checklist to go through for in searching properties, and she recognizes the fact that not all of us WANT to be millionaires. It's a very readable book that doesn't get lost in jargon, but doesn't ignore the terminology a real estate investor is going to need, either. I also found the analogy for shopping for a house/husband very cute. I'm leery of the more creative financing ploys, though. I think her method is doable, but I'd also investigate the book Rental Houses for the Successful Small Investor by Suzanne Thomas and then compare the two outlooks.	2001-06-23
US	52904888	R1NBEH6R4T5CS1	0891349006	239925278	Paint Radiant Realism in Watercolor, Ink & Colored Pencil	Books	3	17	22	N	N	I'm Selling Mine	From a purely instructional standpoint, I was disappointed for many reasons. I would have liked to have seen the chapter on developing your ideas expounded upon. I mean it was beneficial for me to see how reference photos were used to develop an idea for a painting, but it definitely skips some steps. In my opinion, if you're writing a book on watercolor technique, and you have a chapter in it that describes what paper to get, which brushes to use, which colors to start with, which pencils to buy, how to transfer a sketch onto the watercolor paper, etc., one can easily assume that this book was written for someone who doesn't use the medium much. So, I bought the book with the assumption that I would be TAUGHT something. But at the level I work at, I need step-by-step instruction, rather than a quick gloss-over of key concepts. I also believe the author could have used less complicated subjects for her examples. The intricacy of her &quot;Daisy Faces&quot; alone would discourage anybody from following along. Consequently, I never got past the first chapter. Also, I would have liked some examples of painting people, not animals and landscape.<br />I feel this book would have been better off as a showcase/portfolio for the artist, rather than trying to use her work as a tutorial suggesting that &quot;you too can do this&quot;, because I'm afraid I can't. Her level of expertise takes years, and that's something they forget to point out in the copy describing the book.	2001-06-01
US	52904888	RRE5RG1OB2N31	0446527467	915953312	Angel on My Shoulder: An Autobiography	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Incredible Insight to Life in the Studio	I didn't know what to expect out of this book when I decided to buy it. A reviewer at Black Issues magazine dissed this book because of the language he claimed she used throughout (&quot;honey&quot; this, &quot;honey&quot; that). I'm fascinated! I also conclude that that reviewer is out of his mind. I find nothing wrong with either the language used or the editing. So it's not perfect English! Communication is sometimes more important, and Ms. Cole makes her position perfectly clear on a lot of things. At least, I myself had no problem understanding what she was trying to say.<br />That having been said, let me say that for me, the insight Ms. Cole shares of what goes into the making of a recording (can't call them &quot;records&quot; anymore) makes this book a bargain at twice the price. She's very detailed, but not to the point of boredom by getting overly technical. I think it's amazing the hoops a recording artist has to go through, that is, if you're not one of the up-and-comers. Now I see what it's like to have an idea for an album you really want to do, only to have your label worry about how to sell it and where, or what category they'd have to put you in. The music business is a zoo, and Ms. Cole really lets you know what kind of animals are involved throughout an album's conception. I found the &quot;Unforgettable&quot; chapter fascinating because I had never read that side of it before. Few recording artists who have written books really go into it; at least the ones I've read. Few listeners even think about it. If you want to know why your favorite artist doesn't do this on record or do that on record, you get some really big clues in Chapter 23. Thank you, Ms. Cole, for letting us in on that side of the business!<br />I've noticed that my copy of this book doesn't have the purple background shown in the above picture: it makes me wonder if this book was released with different covers. My hardcover's dust jacket has the same pose but with a white background and gold lettering. A very tasteful and beautiful cover.<br />Finally, it must have been very hard for Natalie Cole to sit down and sort of air dirty linen in public. Normally, that sort of thing wouldn't be anybody's business, but I think that because sometimes the court of public opinion can affect how many records one sells, I think Ms. Cole felt she had to be frank about her relationship with her family, especially her mother. I'm kind of glad she did so, because in a lot of ways, I can relate to it. My family's dysfunctional, too! So thanks, Ms. Cole, for letting us know what's going on.und and gold lettering. A very tasteful and beautiful cover.<br />Finally, it must have been very hard for Natalie Cole to sit down and sort of air dirty linen in public. Normally, that sort of thing wouldn't be anybody's business, but I think that because sometimes the court of public opinion can affect how many records one sells, I think Ms. Cole felt she had to be frank about her relationship with her family, especially her mother. I'm kind of glad she did so, because in a lot of ways, I can relate to it. My family's dysfunctional, too! So thanks, Ms. Cole, for letting us know what's going on.	2000-12-07
US	52904888	RD20W8V1PTDQ0	0312140916	386897159	Sassafrass, Cypress and Indigo: A Novel	Books	5	13	13	N	N	My Favorite Christmas Book!	A gift from Mama, one from their dead Father, and one from Santa, each found through a kind of scavenger hunt by clues left for each child under the Christmas tree, and each savored by the individual Child privately, free of &quot;rivalries, jokes, and Christmas confusions.&quot;<br />What a marvellous, inventive Christmas tradition. If I had family, I would initiate this idea. The Christmas chapter is my favorite in this whole book. I also enjoy the recipes scattered throughout the book! I've tried a few and they're great!<br />I'm not going to analyze this book and try to guess at what the author was trying to do. Seems to me only the author could do that, anyway. All I can do is review this book based on what I got out of it. Besides a new Christmas ritual and some great recipes, what I got out of it was, a beautiful story about a mother and her three daughters, each with their own unique gifts: Sassafrass the weaver, Cypress the dancer, and Indigo the voodoo priestess/midwife. Their mother, Hilda Effania, wants the best for her girls, but she knows they each have to make their own way in the world; and when at the end of the story her three grown girls are reunited in the celebration of the newest member of the family, she lets them know that no matter what, they can always come home. I think this is a beautiful message, and I'm surprised this book hasn't become a movie by now. Not that being on video would improve the story, far be it; in fact, most movies based on books are so intent on sensationalism that it ends up being nothing like the book (think Waiting to Exhale). It's just that, if done right, it could become the type of touchy-feely message film that Touchstone films or even Hallmark should have jumped on long ago.<br />This is my favorite book, and I don't own/enjoy a lot of fiction. I've had this book about ten years now, my book has a better cover, and I enjoy pulling it down every Christmas just to read the Christmas day story again and again.<br />I'm seeing some references to this book as reading for grade schoolers. I think that may be a mistake. I wouldn't recommend this book for a young (prepubescent) child; the drug scenes and the passages involving sexuality are a little intense, I think, even though today's children are a lot more worldly about such things thanks to cable!/>I'm seeing some references to this book as reading for grade schoolers. I think that may be a mistake. I wouldn't recommend this book for a young (prepubescent) child; the drug scenes and the passages involving sexuality are a little intense, I think, even though today's children are a lot more worldly about such things thanks to cable!	2000-12-03
US	52904888	RZVZ497JV8F3B	0471144215	560694488	The National Trust Guide to Great Opera Houses in America	Books	5	2	3	N	Y	Well-Researched Important Reference Book	I originally bought this book so that I could research the many opera houses that singer Johnny Mathis has played, since nine times out of ten, he performs with an orchestra in these venues when not at the casinos. Some  of them, like the Orpheum Theater in Memphis, and the Seattle Center Opera  House and the Broward Center in Fort Lauderdale, Florida are places he's  played that are in this book, yet some of them, like the Morton Meyerson in  Dallas, the Davies Symphony Center in San Francisco, and the great Carnegie  Hall in New York City aren't mentioned, possibly because although similar,  they weren't built expressly for opera. I don't know. But they are all  wonderful venues for vocal entertainment.<br /><br />But these beauties aren't  just pretty façades! Their form has a function, as well. Being a physics  major, I've always had an interest in how these special arenas are  constructed. For me, where Mrs. Zietz succeeds is her thorough descriptions  of some of the finer examples. Her pictures are wonderful and plentiful...I  just wish a few could have been in color.<br /><br />The author makes a plea of  sorts to save the older opera houses rather than razing them to build new  ones. Because of possible asbestos worries, I'm not sure how feasible that  is, but I will agree that these architectural wonders do deserve at least a  little consideration of their cultural past.	2000-08-01
US	52904888	R2PM3EDDEYKN4	0932102093	649650338	Graphic Artists Guild Handbook (Graphic Artists Guild Handbook of Pricing and Ethical Guidelines)	Books	3	21	42	N	N	Why Such Ugly Covers from Graphics Professionals?	In the graphics industry, communication is the name of the game. There's no point having a message if your intended audience can't read it. Why on God's green earth, then, are the covers to both this edition and the  previous one so hideous? It's like a Where's Waldo maze just to make out  the name of the book! Both covers are horrible examples of graphic design,  and it doesn't speak well to what the art buyers must be paying good money  for. Now, once you get past the cover to the inside, here is good  information, somewhat generalized, about the prices publishing companies,  newspapers, ad agencies and the like  in New York City are charging for  their artists. Those of us outside that zone will have to adjust  accordingly, I suppose. So my suggestion is to buy the book, rip off the  front and back cover and make one of your own. It's bound to be better than  what the &quot;pro&quot;s have done.	2000-07-31
US	52904888	R1Z4T8G4EXCUYO	089134618X	19409642	Designer's Commonsense Business Book Revised	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Great Examples, but Info Out-of-Order in Pricey Book!	This review is for the version I have, which was published in 1991. It's well-organized and easy-to-read. Be prepared to make several copies of the forms in the book. (Why not a CD-ROM included in the book so that you could  just print them out from that? I hope they did that for the new edition.)  The best chapter is 5: Work Smarter Not Harder, which takes you from First  Client Meeting through writing a letter thnking the client for allowing you  to work on the project! (Billing the client is the NEXT to last thing you  do! ) I was wondering, though, if some of these chapters aren't out of  order; for example, the above Ch. 5 could go after Ch. 8 Pounding the  Pavement and before Ch. 9 Growing Your Business and Ch. 9 Planning Your  Future. Also,  Ch. 7 Who Hires Designers and Why could be the first or  second chapter! So hopefully this new edition was a little better edited.  Also, the 1991 version sold for $24.95 (got mine for $5 used!) so is the  new, more expensive version worth it? Well, I guess that'll have to be for  someone else to say!	2000-07-31
US	52904888	R2EVC33UU0QGXM	0696023792	654153475	The Italian Gourmet: Authentic Ingredients and Traditional Recipes from the Kitchens of Italy	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Beautiful, Informative Book with Wonderful Recipes	This is a fantastic and beautiful book. In it, you will learn how to make your own noodles. You will learn more about olives than you've ever dreamed possible; maybe you'll try some antipasti (appetizers); and you will  definitely learn some Italian! I love the vegetables chapter, where you  learn how to cook asparagus (which had been a mystery before this book) and  learn about the importance of leaching the poisons out of eggplant before  you cook it, easily done with salt; and you learn that the bell pepper can  be a tasty vegetable in its own right, and not just a seasoning vegetable  in the same class as the onion: the Stewed Bell Peppers, called Peperonati,  is an easy yet superb dish. Being a big fan of rice, I loved learning about  the different rices, and realized that our long-grain rice is not that  common in other parts of the world! And cooking it by sauteeing it first is  a European method I first learned about in one of Brazilian writer Jorge  Amado's novels. I could go on and on about this book, but really you need  to find this book, either in hardcover or paperback, and see for yourself  what a wonderful job they did putting this book together! What a shame it's  no longer in print, because I treasure my copy!	2000-07-28
US	52904888	REF4VIXZWG44Q	0679456236	418386783	Living a Beautiful Life: 500 Ways to Add Elegance, Order, Beauty and Joy to Every Day of Your Life	Books	4	23	25	N	N	Alexandra out-Marthas Martha	I bought this book years ago when the cover was different, and it cost only $12.95 in paperback, and I still use it for ideas, although some of them are a little off-the wall or even impractical for me. It's the kind of  book where there is a culture clash with some of the things she suggests:  &quot;Put strawberries in a bowl and leave two, with stems on, on the table  next to the bowl..&quot; Why?  Or &quot;Put eggs in an old wire  basket.&quot; Well, I'm afraid they won't last too long like that, and with  the organic eggs I buy costing over $2,00 a dozen, it's the height of  impracticality for me. Then there's &quot;Make lobster, avocado, and wild  rice salad for a picnic.&quot; Two problems: a) tell me how, and b) maybe  this is no problem for a New Yorker or Connecticut resident, but for a  landlocked Oklahoman that's a mighty pricey picnic! Statements like these  make her seem very Martha Stewart, like she's from another world. Certainly  not mine, anyway.Still, there are many, many parts of her book where she  makes perfect sense, such as buying in season, and that people buy too much  food, and taking the television out of the bedroom is a great idea I've  completely taken to heart! So to sum up, this book that gives you food for  thought, if you don't choke on some of the grace notes!	2000-07-23
US	52904888	R36S8BLK355GCO	0767903641	151169292	Love Unlimited: Insights on Life and Love	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Can't Get Enough of This Book, Babe!	Here is a man who was, for a brief moment, in the company of Malcolm X, got jacked around by his first record label and is able to shrug it off and learn from it, and pass along his wisdom and the benefits of his experiences both to his peers in the entertainment field and to the world at large through this wonderful, insightful, inspirational book. How refreshing it is to see such honesty in such a large package!<br />Update: the Maestro died tonight, July 4, 2003. Get this book, however you can get it,  if you truly want to understand the drive it takes to come from nothing and make something of yourself. Iris Gross Georg	2000-04-27
US	52904888	R1YIJFQOZ0PR3E	0764111140	783921728	Cooking With the Stars: A Collection of Favorite Recipes of Celebrities from Film, Television, Music, Sports, Politics, Business, and the Culinary Arts	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Fun and Easy Recipes By Favorites!	These are very good recipes, they're fun and most are easy. I mean, if you can't handle Joan Rivers' recipe for Toast, there's something wrong! I tried Barbara Bush's Barbecue Chicken recipe and it's great. And my  favorite star Johnny Mathis provides 6 recipes including Southern Corn  Bread, which I haven't tried, because I make mine with whole wheat blend  flour, but I'm sure his is good, too! But the thing I like best about these  recipes is that they are developed obviously by people who have to use  their time wisely and don't like to spend forever in the kitchen!	2000-02-28
US	52904888	RDZSR975RPILV	1569801169	160324640	Sing Out: Gays and Lesbians in the Music	Books	3	4	8	N	Y	Some Authentication, please.	I suppose this is an interesting read for its intended audience..gay men and women looking for celebrity role models. I personally would have liked to have seen more documentation..a bibliography, something other than  hearsay to back up the author's claims.	2000-02-19
US	52904888	R3VK3W4W1580PU	1569801169	160324640	Sing Out: Gays and Lesbians in the Music	Books	3	3	7	N	Y	Lack of Accuracy flaws a really interesting book.	I like the section on my beloved Mathis...the book really couldhave used a bibliography. Otherwise there is a question as to thetruthfullness of some of the author's claims.  END	2000-02-03
US	52904888	RX6GAKT9OYEJE	0929261127	167041242	Watercolor: Drybrush Technique (Artist's Library Series)	Books	5	10	10	N	N	Perfect Novice's book	Having never painted the usual way, I took to this method like a duck to water. I'm afraid this method may spoil me! I found some of the concepts odd at first, especially the purple underpainting for everything, but then  I remembered that Rockwell started his oil paintings with a Mars violet  underpainting; and besides, the results are beautiful! I'd say that if  you've never done a watercolor before in your life, here is a safe way to  plunge into a new medium with good results!	1999-11-15
US	52904888	R3JOY4R3BNP6WY	1578590264	408677425	Musichound R&B: The Essential Album Guide	Books	1	8	10	N	N	Get the Facts Straight!	Johnny Mathis wasn't born in San Francisco..he was born in Gilmer, Texas. He was introduced to George Avakian at Ann's nightclub in San Francisco by his manager Helen Noga, not singing the National Anthem at a track meet!  And as far as millionaire status...try his predecessor, Nat King Cole! How  about employing some fact checking before publication! There are more  RELIABLE sources than this for biographical material concerning Mathis. If  the authors screwed up this badly for Johnny Mathis, who knows how accurate  their entries are for the rest of the artists!	1999-01-19
US	52904888	RQP7YALT2XAPZ	0825610567	709779250	Chords and Progressions for Jazz and Popular Guitar	Books	5	19	21	N	N	Perfect for the Neophyte Guitarist	Unlike a lot of books that expect you to already know some music theory before you use them, this book doesn't assume anything.<br />It bogs you down a little with the inversions they have you memorize, and the chords that  look like fractions and chemistry symbols are intimidating, but at least  you start out slow and easy...by the time you're into the inversion chapter  you've already been able to hear your progress in a jazz-flavored  accompaniment to &quot;Blue Moon&quot;. I myself was amazed after I played  it and could actually superimpose the song over the chord changes in my  mind; I could say, yeah, that works!<br />I wish all guitar instruction books  were programmed the way this one is. By the end of the book, and I'm not  there yet, you really know your music, and not just jazz, either!	1999-01-03
