US	52904230	R13EMB7GROTR4	0765312395	694164277	Godslayer: Volume II of The Sundering	Books	2	4	5	N	N	writing very good, content disappointing	I find Carey's prose wonderful - also in the two books of the Sundering, which I am reviewing together - like another reviewer, I read them back to back. Again and again, for a few pages, she fully pulled me in, because her writing is beautiful. <br /> <br />HOwever, the story fails, for me.  <br /> <br />There is no main character, who has real depth. Each person is repetitively associated with a few main traits, or memories, they do not develop, just continue. <br /> <br />The story itself has so much promise, but there are too many people, about whom I never manage to care deeply, since they all seem pawns in a grand chessgame nobody is visibly playing. Even the Shapers do not appear to guide the destiny, or to act, they just set events in motion, long ago, and now the game is played out - and never is there a feeling of a new game being set in motion, or of a shift towards a new player taking over (except the epilogue). <br /> <br />The moral basis is very interesting, but never fully developped or explained. I like the hints, and the half grasped truths, but nobody, at the end, is truly wiser or happier, or even really clearly different from how they set out except some of those who suffered for millenia are finally released into death. Well, yes, predetermination is also a way of looking at the world, but then the whole struggle is in vain, basically, which makes for a rather depressing ending to a long book.  <br /> <br />I may have missed some subtle stuff because I started skipping, all those repeated moments of pain, endless despair and futile striving got repetitive and I was not able to start caring deeply for anyone, maybe with the exception of a raven, who played a very minor role.  <br /> <br />If all this was condensed into a 50-100 pages legend which was the introduction to a new era and then we had a real story happening in the new era, it would have been excellent. But only the legend, in very long words, with everybody larger than life and no funor happiness at all, and all innocents just getting ground into the grand design, that works, maybe, for those who like legends. But not for someone like me, who wants a good story where I can identify with the characters - so all those who like heroic sagas should like this one. <br />  <br />I will definitely read Carey again, and probably even risk the price of a hardcover, since her writing is so good that I am prepared to try one more time.  <br />	2005-09-14
US	52904230	R2FJT1TGXUSRB0	0451457951	402100144	Transformation (Rai Kirah)	Books	5	59	63	N	N	Very, very good!!	Are you tired of multi-book epics? Or of the naive, innocent character who saves the world while all the experienced people had no clue? Or of quick, nobody-gets-hurt solutions to huge problems? Well, I am. And so it was a wonderful discovery to find this book:<br />Both heroes are disillusioned, and make mistakes, and have a hard time even trying to do good. And their development through the book is believable, not too fast or easy. No relationships are instant, but they develop nicely and convincingly. The problems also are not obvious to everyone, and grow and develop nicely. And despite all this, this is not a long-winded, drawn out book. It goes so fast, you just keep returning to it and reading on whenever you can, the tension is so high, you want to know what happens next, and you find yourself peeking a few pages down to know that it turns out OK.<br />The writing is beautiful, Carol Berg draws unexpected pictures with her words, extremely readable.<br />Nothing in this book was run of the mill - I found myself again and again waiting for a rehashed plotline or thinking (well, of course, and now...) but I was always surprised. Absolutely wonderful book, all around.<br />And - just imagine! - it is finished after 400+ pages! There may be a sequel (who knows?) but it is not necessary, and I enjoy that. I do not want to be drawn into 1000+ pages every time, and so many fantasy authors just seem unable to stop.<br />Recomms: you might want to try Tanya Huff, Julie Czerneda, Roby James, Anne Bishop, Laurell K. Hamilton - each very different, but all with complex characters and unexpected stories.	2000-10-01
US	52904230	R39K68D3CV61SR	0061051217	269719484	Lord of Emperors: Book Two of the Sarantine Mosaic	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Goes right on my Keeper and Re-read Shelf - Magnificent!	I have been captivated, amazed, pleased .... this is the sort of book that echoes inside you, that you remember scenes or ideas from  - very special.<br /> Apart from the deep enjoyment I had from the book, I admired  the author's craft very much. GGK's art is growing from book to book.  <br />The idea of the mosaic is not only subject of the book - the main  character is a mosaicist and the creation of a mosaic is at the center of  the story - but is also the underlying theme, or pattern, of the writing.  People and their acts, seemingly randomly arranged, making a great pattern.  The telling of one night' s actions by a huge number of people, all of them  seemingly disconnected, forming for the reader a pattern with a clear curve  of excitement, of going towards a climax, wonderfully well done! How often  does it happen that an author tries for this, and what comes out is a lot  of bits and pieces, too many to hold together, the attention wanders and  the momentum is lost. Here, it is done perfectly!<br />The other theme, or  pattern, the one of the artist who is at a bit of a distance from people,  who observes and records, but is not quite involved - or is he? - is  another bit of perfection. The pull of the world versus the pull of  remoteness and art is subject of the book, but again, also part of the  reading experience. There is the remoteness of the writer, or the reader,  who only experiences bits of people's lives, who cannot know all of their  past and thoughts - again, this is an often tried method of writing, but is  usually fails. The remoteness is too great, I feel indifference for these  characters, or I get angry because I do not get enough information to form  my own view and be involved with the characters - the book gets boring, why  should I go on reading? GGK manages this masterfully, I feel regret at not  knowing more, yet I am intensely interested, I look for hints and - when  the story ends - I think to myself &quot;I would like to know more, but I  am satisfied all in all&quot;.<br />The book well deserves five stars, yet, I  have a few comments, on what I did not find quite perfect: The pacing of  the book, the relative space of events, especially of the Journey to  Sarantium in the first volume (Sailing to Sarantium) versus the events of  the second, was a bit off for me. It could have been the opposite, more  space for what happens in Sarantium, less for traveling there. The other,  and it results from the technique of distance and mosaic pieces, was a few  characters who got &quot;shortchanged&quot;, in my view. The slave girl  Kasia, the dancer, the chariot driver, GGK took us quite deeply into their  lives, and then just left us hanging, in a way. Even a short epilogue, like  for the doctor Rustem, would have satisfied me, but I missed any indication  of their future. Finally, the love story of Crispin - I found no indication  in the book of anything more than admiration, sympathy, and a certain  regard in the book for him and the woman he finally ends up with. That was  a bit too little, for the ending that showed them meeting and being  immediately completely devoted - like the fulfilment of a deep longing,  when that longing was not noticeable anytime before. It was not quite  convincing for me. I would like to underscore, I make these criticisms only  because I found the book so very good that I thought about it a lot and  these weaknesses bothered me a bit, it is still the best read in a long  time, and I look forward to seeing what GGK gives us next.	2000-06-08
US	52904230	RERDDR0806NE3	042517428X	983788058	The Burning Point	Books	3	3	4	N	N	Skillful in dealing with a difficult subject	This review may spoil your reading pleasure - read only if you do not mind or if you have already read the book.<br />This book deals with a very dark side of marriage, with abuse. I found the way the two main characters dealt  with the abuse OK. Their way of tip-toeing around each other - and the  sometimes stilted conversations they had - was for me a good way of showing  the mood of mistrust and fear, guilt and remorse that they had to deal  with. Their &quot;approach&quot; of each other was convincing, and the  underlying love, too. It was a dark book, a book about a harsh issue, but  it worked as a redemption story for me.  I would have liked a less abrupt  ending - just figuring out that forgiveness is necessary, and that the  heroine has a dark side as well, and that is it, immediately HEA - not  enough for me. A chapter showing how the figuring out builds an emotional  foundation, how it &quot;settles&quot; and becomes a stronger link between  the characters - I missed that, but I found the way this book dealt with  abuse, and with breaking that vicious circle, and the alcohol etc. - it  worked for me as a dark, redemption oriented book as far as the two main  characters relationship was concerned.<br /> What did NOT work for me was the  idea that Kate had a loving and close family and still the situation  developed as it did. No one in her family knew of the abuse (except her  also estranged brother), her family never asked, her ex-husband got  accepted into the family and she was &quot;cast out&quot; - even if a child  of mine left a partner without giving a reason, would I stand by that  partner or by her? All this could work as a plot if the family were not  portrayed as a loving one (and then, the abuse angle would also work  better, because children who live in cold, or power-oriented,  performance-driven families accept much more easily that there is a power  or abuse angle in other relationships). A cold family, a neglectful one, a  money angle thatmade Donovan indispensable, all that would have made for a  better book. The heroine's mother, this wonderful, warm, caring woman did  not sit down her daughter once in 10 years and ask her what happened? Oh,  please! And no one ever says that her father was cruel, hard and  unforgiving, apart from being a macho who never really learned the lesson  that his daughter was worth as much as the son-in-law he so cherished. He  even gets mentioned as wise in the last paragraphs of the book. Oh no!<br />  Those were the bits that - for me - made the whole book sort of  unconvincing, because they intruded all the time, but I found dealing with  domestic violence courageous, the way it was dealt with sensitive, and, to  me, it did contain clear warnings of how a woman can slide into it, how it  hurts her soul, how easily promises are broken, and all that. I  congratulate MJP on daring to write this book, and think it is an important  step in getting this issue, so often hidden, out into the open. Thanks,  MJP!	2000-05-20
US	52904230	R1MB385QAWFIZV	0312251963	625712590	Sex and Shopping: Confessions of a Nice Jewish Girl	Books	4	1	1	N	N	well-written, weak plot	Judith Krantz writes well. She knows how to make a sentence, a paragraph, a chapter a joy to read, just for the way she puts words on paper.<br />In this autobiography, she has clearly a balancing act to do: How can she tell  about her life and not hurt, humiliate or even just reveal anything  possibly embarassing about those people she likes or admires? She  ruthlessly comes down on the side of friendship and loyalty, not of plot.  On the one hand, I admire this, she obviously makes a very good friend, on  the other, she could have written a much better book if she did tell a bit  more about her sons, her friends, the problems and challenges she had to  surmount - and do not tell me there weren't any, even a fairly rich, fairly  smooth life has its problems!<br /> Still, I enjoyed the good writing, I  enjoyed reading a bit about where her books came from (could have been  more, for my taste), and, like I said, I admire her as a friend, who did  not grab the spotlight, sacrificing friends. But as a reader, I was not  really satisfied, there is obviously so much more left out, at least from  the point of her marriage on, than is IN that biography.	2000-05-14
US	52904230	R2JIX7LEKDCW0A	0151004188	735217045	Surpassing Wonder: The Invention of the Bible and the Talmuds	Books	4	12	15	N	N	Engaging reading, many interesting thoughts	I find the book very lively, engaging, the writer says veryclearly that this is a book of his personal opinions, and tells them clearly, also  stating wiht whom he disagrees.  I regret that he is rather brief in his  description of the Christian Books, I would have enjoyed the same depth  that both the older Jewish Scriptures and the Talmud enjoy.  Still, I do  not find him glib and condescending................................... Authors who clearly state that what they write is their  personal idea invite discussion and stimulate me to think, which is very  different from expecting blind agreement. They show me their thinking and  its limitations, and I can &quot;take or leave&quot; whatever I want -  exactly the contrary of arrongance and condescension.  A very valuable and  well written book, that makes the rather academic subject exciting and  fresh.	2000-05-05
US	52904230	RJTKQJUF2SPRR	0671032976	869998580	Whitney, My Love	Books	4	2	2	N	N	An old favorite, expanded, no real improvement on original	Well, basically, I loved this book and I love it still. I is a very nice, partially humorous love story, extremely original and very well written. The rewrites did not change the book fundamentally for me, and I knew - it was clearly advertised - what I was getting, namely a slightly expanded  version, and I still wanted it, so I am not blaming anyone, which many  reviewers seem to do. I think that it is legitimate to try and improve a  book, and legitimate to offer it to the public, and if a reader does not  want that - do not buy. That said, I was disappointed in one respect:  McNaught said in interviews that she would be explaining Clayton's motives  for his mistrust and anger better, and I was interested in that. As far as  I could see, he had a fairly happy childhood, no particular emotional  scars, and still he kept being sheer paranoidally suspicious of Whitney,  rarely understanding that he was &quot;hunting&quot; her with no holds  barred and that her evasion tactics might stem from that. So I waited to  hear about what had made him so suspicious, some old betrayal, some  problems in his parents marriage (like &quot;Something Wonderful&quot;, eg)  but nothing, no explanation like that. Just some obvious arithmetics about  pregnancy and that was that. So, I still do not understand why Clay was so  cruelly suspicious, and I find that a disappointing part of the character  of the hero in an otherwise very lovely book, which also explains my  rating.	2000-01-07
US	52904230	R2SRFFFUXC6JH3	0451456726	65025730	Heir to the Shadows	Books	5	1	1	N	N	gripping tale, writing still needs some polish	I really read this through fast. It was so involving and gripping, I did not want it to end but I really wanted to know what happens on the next page - both these attributes are rare, and I thank Anne Bishop for writing  books that offer both. <br />And - and this makes Anne Bishop outstanding for  me - she manages this with quite a number of flaws in her story: Jaenelle's  friends are not quite fleshed out (such a lot of names, such a lot of  alliances between them and none of it told, all of it just mentioned in  passing - I had no chance of even remembering who is who), there are a lot  of jumps in her story where transitions are sketchy and a few sentences  thrown in are supposed to explain a battle or disaster scene of many pages,  the emotional growth of Jaenelle (respect for her body, e.g.) just happens  in a page or so, Sadi is &quot;forgotten&quot; by everyone for endless  amounts of time and the justifications for that are sketchy, Jaenelle's  marriage just happens in passing. <br />So, yes, I had a lot of criticism  after thinking it over, or even while reading. But, and that is why this  book gets five stars, I still wanted to read it, I enjoyed it, it kept me  hooked and completely distracted from all else. I hope that Anne Bishop's  writing gets even better, but even if it never does, I will wait for each  of her books and look forward to them with anticipation - and have pleasure  from reading them. <br />Finally, to respond to other comments: I found the  violence and the sex all necessary to the story and not excessive at all -  it fit into her dark tale very well.	1999-05-31
US	52904230	R13TGZQOKZHN9J	000223677X	848239664	The Wolves of Time: Journeys to the Heartland v. 1	Books	5	7	7	N	N	deeply felt, sometimes disturbing - it stays with you	I cannot read Horwood at just any time. His description of tough decisions, of long suffering, it makes the final triumphs beautiful, but it is also sometimes so disturbing, that some of his books stay on the shelves  for years before I read them. When I finally do, they echo in me, I  understand some things about the world and emotions, and they stay with me  - a fascinating author, not an easy one. And because he writes about  animals, some truths are harsher and clearer than with people as heroes.<br />                   A tip for all those who look for this book or its sequel:  check out amazon.co.uk, both books are in print there and you might just  order them there, if you wanted.	1999-04-10
US	52904230	R2BSUE5R0ITT53	0671684620	758817369	Having It All	Books	5	8	9	N	N	Such fun to read!	I happened upon this book on a shelf in a holiday resort and got completely caught up in it - I even considered stealing it!<br />Her personal writing style, her common sense, her attitude to life - how I enjoy hearing  that you have to make an effort if you want to achieve anything! - I  enjoyed the book immensely and really got new ideas on some issues. Even my  husband, who hates self help books, read a few pages about business and  found them interesting and practical (phone rules). Of course, some of the  stuff is dated, but in general, excellent reading and so entertaining! The  little stories, the wording, the very personal tone (and still, she is  never rude to her readers, even in the most intimate situations or when  describing what you really should NOT do).<br />Absolutely lovely, I do hope  she writes something for women in general again (a writer's guide is really  not something I need! - though, if written by her, I might enjoy even that)	1998-12-20
US	52904230	RELODXLNLA90E	067169507X	560916915	The Seat of the Soul	Books	3	4	4	N	N	nuggets of wisdom, too many theories	I really liked his fundamental idea and the description of growth and development possible and its way. This part was much too short for me and did not go into sufficient depth and descriptiveness. I felt like he had  started to write something truly interesting and then did not flesh it  out.<br />I really disliked his theories about &quot;group souls&quot;  &quot;souls being only partially present in the specific person&quot; and  so on. Not because I disagree with him (I have no idea whether animals have  group souls and whether I have a 1/158 of a soul or more or less) but  because he just says &quot;this is how it is&quot; and does not explain why  he thinks that and where he gets it from. If he did explain, I might find  myself agreeing with him (who knows?) but I find such theories without  explanations very irritating.	1998-12-20
US	52904230	R259SATWAAREB9	0385478186	587611649	Nearer, My God: An Autobiography of Faith	Books	2	3	20	N	N	no depth, no true charity, just catechism rehashed	I left the Catholic Church a few years ago just because of the rules about papal infallibility, contraception - not the rules as such but their complete overshadowing of personal responsibility of each of us and their  lack of charity. <br />In a way, Mr. Buckley's book is reassuring. If that is  what Catholicism is, the correctness of my decision to leave is reaffirmed  for me. And goodness, the argument that something is good (the centralistic  One Church of Catholicism) because it has been around for a long time - I  was astonished to see that this argument still is printable in a serious  book! <br />I give the book a 2 because it is nicely written but don't expect  anything that really inspires or breaks new ground in here.	1998-12-20
US	52904230	R149BHAZLJS7U0	0671000853	42968960	Night Whispers	Books	3	0	0	N	N	a very nice romance, but not more than that	A very nice love story, but not McNaught standards. It is just not &quot;fleshed out&quot; sufficiently. When I remember &quot;Paradise&quot;! Every character breathed, lived, had motivations of his own.<br />Here, I  still don't understand Paul Richardson (he has sweet moments, but he never  really becomes a person, and his motives for  again - he was the detective  who ruthlessly used a young woman in &quot;Perfect&quot;, too - using  someone so carelessly are never spelled out). His romance with Paris is  never described, it would have been so nice to know more about that instead  of just finding out that it happened. I miss the development of the romance  between Noah and Sloan, except for two, three nice scenes it all happens in  a few sentences where she thinks how nice the last ten days were. Noah  never really becomes a person to me either (how I nostalgically remember  Zack from &quot;Perfect&quot; or even Cole in &quot;Remember When&quot;),  Noah is just a black and white sketch compared to their color photographs.  The villain and his motives are also just quickly stated, that is not  exough for me. And the love affair between the older couple would have been  so nice to read about, instead of just hearing it happened in the epilogue.  Finally, Sara and Jess deserved some more space, too.<br />I feel more and  more that McNaught is publishing books that are not finished, really. If  she had taken the time to &quot;flesh out&quot; this lovely story, to make  it some 200 pages longer, it would have been wonderful. This way, it is  disappointing - please, wait for the paperback!!	1998-12-20
US	52904230	R3UB2XUIZG3XOR	0892966742	100200360	The Course of Honor	Books	4	3	5	N	N	wonderful, intelligent story of Ancient Rome	I really liked this book. It tells a wonderful story of two people growing and developping, over beyond 40 years, (thank God not another of those books that end when people are young and beautiful - here, they grow up)  without ever becoming unbearably long or dull, quite the contrary, it  leaves you wanting to know more about that time and those characters, but  still, it is somehow enough to know that much.  My complaints: I lost the  thread a bit when Caenis was living first in that slum appartement, then  did not want to move back to Antonia's house, but still moved out of the  slum. I either overlooked something or she was living somewhere (where?)  for a few years; the other one: I never quite figured out what Caenis lived  on: those occasional pieces of dictation and the (explicitly) unpaid  lessons to the Imperial children - these inconsistencies make me rate the  book only a 4, but extremely enjoyable still - if you like Ancient Rome,  this is a treat!	1998-11-24
US	52904230	R3SMG25IT7LJOZ	0553100831	65924712	With This Ring (Vanza, Book 1)	Books	3	4	5	N	Y	delightful story, but not a Regency and no character growth	I loved hear early books. They were delightful, light, entertaining, but still, her heroines were real Regency ladies, with the restrictions and convictions of that time, and they somehow developped during the book, learning something about themselves, growing beyond some old fears, or so.<br />The last few books are getting ever flatter. The story is still delightful, but the heroines are much too free for Regency, the period is just used as a costume backdrop and not as a real part of people's lives and values and, and I miss this most, they do not grow. They are already happy with themselves and life as it is, and the man is just icing on the cake. This is not romance for me, romance is a void being filled, a growing up of the whole person.<br />So, both in her contemporaries as Jayne Ann Krentz, as in her historicals, I still find a fun read, but it gets flatter and flatter in every book and I will probably not buy her next one as a hardcover, it is just not worth that m! oney.	1998-08-05
US	52904230	RSTLPHTAET2IY	0671523104	527293314	Sharp Edges	Books	3	1	2	N	Y	fun read, but too superficial, no character growth and depth	I loved hear early books. They were delightful, light, entertaining, but still, her heroines were real people, they had problems and hang ups and they made mistakes in judgment.And during the book, they somehow developped, learned something about themselves, grew beyond some old fears, or so. And the man was part of that growing up. The last few books are getting ever flatter. The story is still delightful, but the women, and I miss this most, they do not grow. The men too, but they still develop more during the book than the women. The whole story feels like a casual affair, not like LOVE. This is not romance for me; romance is a void being filled, a growing up of the whole person.<br />So, since the last I really liked, &quot;Trust me&quot; (or &quot;Grand Passion&quot; whichever came first),  I still find her a fun read, but it gets flatter and flatter in every book and I will probably not buy her next one as a hardcover, it is just not worth that money. Same goes for h! er Amanda Quick novels.<br />Like another reader, I would beg her: Please, take the time to write something with a bit more substance on the personalities' side. I don't mind formula, I like her kind of formula, she can go on writing that kind of book forever, but make the characters come alive again, give them more flaws and more growth - to me, Aloha shirts are not enough to make someone special.	1998-08-05
US	52904230	R1K6480CKLQNXW	0786000236	160267935	Dazzling Brightness	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Wonderful love story, excellent mythology!	Roberta Gellis is truly special. Her characters, the choices they make, the way the think and decide, she has a way of really describing what happens &quot;inside&quot; people to lead them to act. At the same time, the stories she tells are exciting, well thought out and original.<br /> With this book, she writes the first in her new subject, (up to now, it was Medievals - I hichly recommend them and a series of Regencies I loved, too) old Greek myths, and the story of Hades and Persephone is fresh, exciting and believable. I couldn't put it down and I reread it occasionally, like the others in the series, Shimmering Splendour and Echanted Fire. Though this one is the best of her Greek stories so far.	1998-04-01
US	52904230	RES9ZKWED6PL3	0786003308	969636574	Enchanted Fire	Books	4	17	17	N	N	Good story, well told	Roberta Gellis is special. She writes good, exciting stories about intelligent, likeable characters and she is always original, you will never read a Gellis book and feel that it is run of the mill, everyday stuff. She stands out. She is one of my favorite authors.<br /> Also, her Greek mythology series is very good, her idea of magic power fits well with the mythology we were taught and still makes it all fresh and exciting.<br />However, this is the weakest of the three she has written so far (Dazzling Splendour and Shimmering Brightness are the others). The central theme is the role of women and Orpheus just cannot accept that Euridyce is not a meek Greek female (you know,seen and not heard). After describing this conflict for a whole book, I find it a bit too easy to have Orpheus change his mind in just a few pages at the end. I would have needed some more explanation or some more time to see that his change of heart lasts. The ending left me feeling that she just had to wrap this up and finish. It is still a very good book, but the rushed ending leaves me with a slight disappointment.	1998-04-01
US	52904230	R3QF1GB7G6DSJJ	0786001321	570593831	Shimmering Splendor	Books	5	10	11	N	N	Lovely, a good mix of mythology and love story!	Roberta Gellis is an author I buy &quot;blind&quot;, I don't need reviews or ratings, I just know she's good - and she's never disappointed me yet. <br /> Her characters are always well-defined, their actions believable or well explained, so that even seemingly strange choices make sense in the context. And her stories are good, exciting, well-written.<br />My one complaint with this book, and that is the only reason I don't give it a ten, is : I would really like to have a bit of explanation what happened to Eros with his family and in which way his beauty was so unbearable to those around him - how exactly was he punished and for what. It is not central to the story and maybe I should know my mythology better, but that was my one complaint. <br />Apart from that, wonderful, I reread it occasionally because it is such a good book!	1998-04-01
US	52904230	R9Q9ZR1N3AK36	0380776170	376589566	The Last Hellion (The Scoundrels Series)	Books	5	1	1	N	Y	Wonderful, funny, touching, why does she write so slowly???	I love Loretta Chase's book, she is truly original, writing in a style all her own, her characters (though similar from book to book) are &quot;her own&quot; and not a cliché. <br /> I enjoy the way she gets lovers together that seemingly are opposites of each other and where a lot of prejudice comes in at the beginning. Then, and that is where she is special, the prejudice and the attraction are both addressed. I really lose interest in a book if a heroine, deeply convinced that the hero is a total monster, still gives in to her physical attraction to him. It is very difficult for an author to pull off giving in to lust  while feeling contempt. It nearly never works (at least for me). So, the way both characters discover good things about each other, and how this makes the attraction grow, I really enjoy that here.  It is a heartwarming romance, where the tension between the two lovers is palpable throughout, and acted out in a convincing way. <br />  Another thing  I enjoy in her writing is the way falling in love suddenly &quot;breaks up&quot; some old wounds of the characters that they have then to deal with. Loved ones lost, or a lack of love in childhood, etc. It is so true that love is a huge upheaval and suddenly shakes loose parts of our soul that we ignored or so.<br />   And finally, she does all this in a very funny way. I keep laughing at her characters ideas and dialogue, and yet it never stops being emotionally genuine even in all the laughter.<br />  A very special author, I regret that she does not write faster!	1998-03-23
US	52904230	R1YZMVAGSOT3FM	0872167763	502409278	The Dragon and the Rose	Books	5	11	13	N	Y	wonderful historical book, with true &quot;period&quot; feel	I love Gellis' historical (medieval) romances, she focuses on a love story but always gives rich period detail and the characters do not think or act like present day people but are actually bound by their times, this makes her stories very authentic sounding. At the same time, she manages to make their choices and hardships understandable to us - a real achievement. Although I enjoy her newest series where she writes of mythological (Greek) figures and has more freedom than in writing about historical times, I regret that she is not writing medievals anymore.<br />I am very happy that I found this out of print title through Amazon, I have been hunting for her old titles for about five years and I am very happy that I finally have all of them!	1998-03-23
US	52904230	R1TDDP6Y0L7W0H	0425161854	464397463	Husband, Lover, Stranger	Books	4	3	3	N	Y	wonderful build-up, sloppy resolution	I was really gripped, kept turning the pages, the whole set-up was excellent, lots of motives, confusions, mixed feelings. I couldn't wait to finish it and solve all the mysteries. <br /> The confused heroine and the mysterious stranger, really very well done, utterly convinving! Great job!<br />But then, when it came to offering solutions, there were just a few sloppy sentences, like sketching a possible direction what might have happened, but no real explanation. When I am kept on tenterhooks for many hundreds of pages, I want to know what actually happened<br />Without giving away too much: What did Colby actually do to his brother? What was Claude's role in the whole thing? Why were Wallis and El's actions so easily forgivable that El could be fully trusted to complete Jay's treatments at the end? I did not feel satisfied on the intellectual level at all. I hope that Suzanne Forster is going to work on this, as I really like the way she sets up the whole story, I am just left with too many open questions at the end.	1998-03-08
US	52904230	R2OV8S2TA2F7Y2	0440118204	676932852	The Tiger's Woman	Books	5	6	7	N	N	One of my all time favorites	This is an absolutely wonderful book. The story is excellent, the building of a new life in the historical West by both the hero and he heroine very convincing and well thought out. The harshness of the circumstances and yet, how people survive in them is described realistically without being depressing. So the background is well thought out. <br /> What impressed me so much was the personal growth of both heroine and hero, how they overcame the coldness and cruelty they had grown up with, and built a life together. <br /> Emotionally gripping, well written - the tension is kept up very well - a story to fall into and &quot;live along with the characters&quot;.	1998-03-01
US	52904230	R3T91ER3L588OA	0380794470	925562381	Dream a Little Dream	Books	5	4	5	N	Y	New territory with this book, very well done, wow!!!	Wonderful!<br />I am a longtime fan, I already liked Hot Shot, Glitter Baby and Fancy Pants, her more serious (older) books a lot. When she began, with It Had to Be You, to write wonderfully funny and still touching books, I just couldn't wait for the next one, and I kept rereading them again and again, they are so special!<br />Now, Dream a Little Dream is again new territory, still funny, but much less so, and dealing with a very tough subject. The heroine is really fighting for the survival of her son and herself, she's so poor, she's prepared to do anything to keep her son fed and get money for basic necessities - and yet, she manages to do this with grace. The hero lost a beloved wife and son and is not recovering at all. He's at the edge of just giving up. He behaves horribly and cannot stand the heroine's son. <br /> With this premise, writing a book where you still can laugh sometimes, where you don't hate the hero but understand him, where the heroine is convincing (the right mixture of looking out for herself and still being a good person in such a difficult situation is nearly impossible - but it works here) - I am very impressed. I couldn't put down the book and I was sorry when it ended. <br />I still hope that Susan Elizabeth Phillips will write &quot;pure fun&quot;  books again, they are such a treat! But this a bit darker one was so good, and dealing with subjects like death and poverty and prejudice is so important, that it should be done well. There are few authors who can do it, and I am happy to see that SEP is one of them. <br />I will read anything she writes and look forward to see where she takes me the next time, her growing palette of writing styles and subjects  makes me richer, too.	1998-03-01
US	52904230	RY4Q74UETKNDR	0553106163	153158875	And Then You Die...	Books	2	4	4	N	Y	excellent plotline, but not &quot;fleshed out&quot;	I love Iris Johansen. I am hunting for her old Loveswepts because I enjoy each and every one of her books. She's capable, within a few paragraphs, to pull you into a story and make difficult people come alive in such a way that you care for them. <br /> Not here. These people remain distant and in a way cold. Bess, the heroine, is constantly demanding unreasonable things and getting her way. She's hurt by the whole situation, but that doesn't make her unreasonableness right, and there's just not enough depth to make it realistic. Kaldak, the hero, works on the intellectual level, but not on the emotional one. The supporting characters are, at least for Johansen, formulaic.<br />I really liked the idea for a thriller, it is an excellent plot, but it would need more meat on those bones to &quot;pull you in&quot;, to make you feel and believe. I wasn't afraid for the heroine, I didn't share her sudden need to go to bed with the hero, I didn't hate the villain (although he was truly bad).<br /> I hope Iris Johansen will get better with her next book, both her last two thrillers and her romances were good (although I would have preferred more relationship in the thrillers, I regretted her switch from romance) - I am definitely going to wait for the paperback with her next novel, this quality is not worth the money for a hardcover.	1998-02-15
US	52904230	R2PERFH93CE3G9	0813521505	412392872	Irrationality	Books	5	6	7	N	Y	absolutely marvellous, you even laugh out loud at yourself	Absolutely excellent. <br />This book takes our own way of thinking and shows us where we make mistakes while thinking we are being perfectly rational.<br />Wonderful examples, easy reading style - you don't notice how much you learn while being entertained - and he really makes you laugh at your own mistakes - that's not easy, at least for me, I tend to get annoyed when I'm wrong and some very wise person shows up and tells me about it - while he does it in such a funny way, I really don't mind.<br />A wonderful book, I reread it again and again.<br />It is scary, though, to think of all the foolish decisions being taken every day in the name of &quot;rational decisionmaking&quot; - this book ought to be mandatory reading for everyone who makes decisions - so really, for everyone.	1998-01-31
US	52904230	R2FXRGVA6XZR6S	0553561367	473969912	Spring Collection	Books	4	3	4	N	N	frothy, light entertainment, well written but a bit shallow	I like her books, I really do! Wonderful text, good language, well-paced stories.<br />However, books like Till We Meet Again, Princess Daisy or Dazzle showed the characters growing and developping, while Scruples 2, Lovers and this one are just like - and Krantz says it herself towards the end of the book - like an extra long episode of Love Boat. You enjoy it hugely, but you cannot get emotionally involved with her characters as much as in her other novels. <br />The book was a treat, I'll read the next one as soon as it comes out, but I hope that, at some point, Judith Krantz will write something a bit more emotionally strong again, not just the best soap opera in the world. But then, I am not complaining (too much), the best soap opera is still mighty good reading!!	1998-01-25
US	52904230	RXK8RENPE147M	067102180X	225894437	Simple Gifts : Four Heartwarming Christmas Stories : Just Curious / Miracles / Change of Heart / Double Exposure	Books	1	5	8	N	N	Offering a reprint of titles not even 2 years old	The stories by both authors are wonderful, I am a devoted fan of McNaught. I just find it upsetting - and a easy way to mislead people into spending money on something they've already read - to reprint stories that appeared one or maximum two years ago under a new title and cover. Anyone not careful is just going to see the new title and the authors names and will  buy to be disappointed afterwards. I really don't like this approach - so I'm rating that and not the content which is very good.	1998-01-16
US	52904230	R1M0C1NUL25D0Q	0385311400	173145556	Drums of Autumn (Outlander)	Books	3	9	9	N	N	Disappointing for Gabaldon, still very good escapist fiction	As many other readers, I was disappointed. Books one and two were so very good, the third &quot;Voyager&quot;, was wrenching, especially Jamie`s prison experiences, but then it became a bit of a travelogue, a bit dragging in places, but still very good! Now, this one really was much flatter. I mean, there are still axceptional scenes and laugh-out-loud-moments, the language is wonderful, but it is superficial. Brianna acts so often like a spoiled child, and the whole sequence of Roger first making love to her, then disappearing after just one night and by mistake being &quot;thrown to the Indians&quot; by her family, oh, come on, this really sound like the cloak and dagger stuff from old romances! Also, you got this feeling of pages that have to be filled and time that has to be spent before we get to the next really interesting things, a bit like being with people in their everyday lives after sharing all the high drama before - a bit of a letdown. Well, I was disappointed, the tension was just not there and I really put the book down for weeks before reading on - I don't think I will buy her next book as a hardcover, seems a waste of money! - But yes, it was still so good that I will definitely read on through the series.	1998-01-05
US	52904230	RB39L5958PQMH	0553374605	482694144	Excession	Books	4	0	0	N	N	highly complex, very enjoyable sf, beautiful language	I happened upon Excession by chance, and enjoyed it so much that I immediately picked up all of Bank`s SF books. He uses wonderful language,precise, clear, witty,  just as a language lovers experience, its worth reading. At the same time, it is a very gripping story. His use of parallel strands of storytelling and his very interesting use of time - he actually tells the story in the reverse, up to a point - would be confusing if not done so masterfully. Consider Phlebas, which is very well reviewed by some others here, was very dark and somber, while this novel is so beautifully amorally joyous for most of the characters, one of the most impressive reads in a long time. I look forward to reading the rest of his books.	1997-11-17
