US	52906303	R2IFCIL83DUQV3	1582619913	33687977	Terry Funk: More than Just Hardcore	Books	5	32	35	N	Y	Wrestling As Only Terry Funk Could Have Lived It	The problem with most wrestling autobiographies is that they're written by wrestlers who have little experience in the game. What does someone who has been in the business for 10 or less years really know, or is willing to reveal?<br /><br />The WWE biographies read as if they've come out of the same template: I was born, I went into wrestling, Vince McMahon is the greatest thing since sliced bread. All this for $20 odd something dollars.<br /><br />The best bios are written by people with real tenure in the business: Lou Thesz, Fred Blassie, Jim Wilson, and Ric Flair. In other words these are all people who have a real story to tell.<br /><br />Add Terry Funk to this list of distinguished alumni. Terry's memoirs, written with Scott Williams (who earns a real tip of the hat for his contributions) seem as if we are sitting down in a comfortable room with Terry and listening to his life story. The book literally comes alive in the reader's hands and imagination, which cannot be said of many other books on the subject.<br /><br />To say that Terry led an interesting life is an understatement. A member of what could rightfully be called, \\"the first family of wrestling,\\" both Terry and brother Dory, Jr. have held the NWA World Title along with so many regional titles that it would take a couple of days to research. Father Dory, Sr. was a legend in the business himself, a man who, like Lou Thesz and Bruno Sammartino, replied on no other gimmick than his own ability, of which he had plenty.<br /><br />Traveling with Terry, we discover how he got into wrestling, how it was decided to make his brother Dory, Jr., champion, and how it was decided to make Terry himself champion. He also discusses the effect wrestling had on his marriage and family, the lost art of selling (making one's opponent look like a world beater), the decline and fall of the NWA, WCW and ECW, and how the WWE almost became extinct at the hands of WCW (and how WCW blew that chance), and the state of the art today. Plus he paints hilarious portraits of quite a few of his co-workers over the years, including, Dusty Rhodes, Harley Race, Jerry Lawler, Dick Slater and Mick Foley.<br /><br />This is not just a book for put in your wrestling library - this is a book to READ and place in your wrestling library. But keep it in a handy place, because you'll want to refer to time and again.of the art today. Plus he paints hilarious portraits of quite a few of his co-workers over the years, including, Dusty Rhodes, Harley Race, Jerry Lawler, Dick Slater and Mick Foley. <br /> <br />This is not just a book for put in your wrestling library - this is a book to READ and place in your wrestling library. But keep it in a handy place, because you'll want to refer to time and again. <br />	2005-05-04
US	52906303	RLVAOG5UC5HG4	0895260506	644690342	Men in Black: How the Supreme Court Is Destroying America	Books	5	617	949	N	Y	A Cogent Disscetion of Judicial Tyranny	The framers of the Constitution took care to see that our government would depend upon a delicate balance between the executive, legislative and judicial powers, each there to hold the others in check and preserve the republic. But what if one branch began to usurp the power of the other two branches, and in effect, become a self-legislating body? And what if this was the one branch not elected by the people, but rather appointed by the other two branches? This is exactly the dilemma we have today, according to Mark Levin. The Supreme Court was seen by the framers as a body that acts only on the constitutionality of a particular legislative action when brought before them. When the Supreme Court becomes an activist court, it makes, rather than interprets, the law. In doing so it usurps the authority of the executive and legislative branches, disenfranchising the will of the people, which is correctly exercised through the people's duly elected representatives.<br /><br />Mark Levin, an expert in constitutional law, and a strict constitutionalist, takes a close look at the judicial activism of the Supreme Court and the mischief it has wrought upon the Constitution. Levin doesn't limit his examination to recent event, but starts from the beginning of American history, with Madison v. Marbury, in which Chief Justice John Marshall declared that the Court would now decide what is and is not constitutional. President Thomas Jefferson, a leading opponent of judicial activism, saw the consequences of such an action only too clearly: \\"But the opinion which gives to judges the right to decide what laws are constitutional and what not, not only for themselves in their own sphere of action but for the Legislative and Executive also in their spheres, would make the Judiciary a despotic branch.\\"<br /><br />Levin also examines the Dred Scott v. Sanford, a decision that upheld slavery based on a rather unique interpretation of the Fifth Amendment; Plessy v. Ferguson, which made segregation the law of the land until the Court reversed itself in the 1954 decision Brown vs. Board of Education; and the infamous Korematsu v. United States, wherein the Court found that the Fifth Amendment, which states that no person shall be deprived of life, liberty or property without due process of law, did not apply as regarding the forced internment of Japanese-Americans during World War II.<br /><br />Levin also examines Roe v. Wade, asking whether there exists a right to privacy in the Constitution, the 2000 election debacle, wherein the Court stuck its nose into the election process; and the Court's varied interpretation of free speech, allowing virtual child pornography as free speech while upholding the limits on free speech contained in the McCain-Feingold Act, devoting each chapter to the constitutional development of the issues that so move us today.<br /><br />\\"Men in Black\\" is a pithy, well-reasoned argument against judicial activism, written without reliance on legal jargon or bombast. Those fans of his popular radio show who buy this expecting the sort of bombastic jargon he uses on the show will be disappointed, but every reader who comes to this book expecting a rational, well-researched argument against judicial activism will find their expectations amply filled.e segregation the law of the land until the Court reversed itself in the 1954 decision Brown vs. Board of Education; and the infamous Korematsu v. United States, wherein the Court found that the Fifth Amendment, which states that no person shall be deprived of life, liberty or property without due process of law, did not apply as regarding the forced internment of Japanese-Americans during World War II. <br /> <br />Levin also examines Roe v. Wade, asking whether there exists a right to privacy in the Constitution, the 2000 election debacle, wherein the Court stuck its nose into the election process; and the Court's varied interpretation of free speech, allowing virtual child pornography as free speech while upholding the limits on free speech contained in the McCain-Feingold Act, devoting each chapter to the constitutional development of the issues that so move us today. <br /> <br />\\"Men in Black\\" is a pithy, well-reasoned argument against judicial activism, written without reliance on legal jargon or bombast. Those fans of his popular radio show who buy this expecting the sort of bombastic jargon he uses on the show will be disappointed, but every reader who comes to this book expecting a rational, well-researched argument against judicial activism will find their expectations amply filled.  <br />	2005-02-03
US	52906303	R1IE6IPZNTAGC4	0312221282	835183984	Penitentiaries, Reformatories, and Chain Gangs: Social Theory and the History of Punishment in Nineteenth-Century America	Books	5	3	3	N	Y	Comprehensive and Informative	The penitentiary, reformatory and chain gang were all developed during the 19th century, which belies the importance of that century to American history and the history of punishment in particular as it forms the bridge between earlier forms of punishment in Colonial America and the development of the modern penal system.<br /><br />Mark Colvin has made a solid contribution to this history with an informative, well-researched and well-written study of the evolution of punishment in America. Taking his cues from such theorists as Durkheim, Foucault, Elias and Marxist notions of punishment, Colvin applies their theories to each major step in the development of the American penal system. He examines how punishment differs from reform, examines the establishment of women's reformatories during and after the Civil War, and, most interestingly, traces the development of the Southern chain gang and leasing of prisoners to companies as an extension of antebellum slavery. Engrossing and comprehensive, this is a study recommended to all those interested in the roots of the modern justice system.	2005-01-04
US	52906303	RMCRW4CQS5HBQ	0812236270	868366135	Football: The Ivy League Origins of an American Obsession	Books	4	5	5	N	Y	Potentially Great history Ruined by Sloppy Editing	This could well have been not only the definitive history of the Ivy League, but also one of the seminal works on the subject of football. The history of football by necessity goes through the Ivy League and the intrigues among Princeton, Harvard and Yale were to affect the college game for years and decades to come.<br /><br />The Ivies have always been an enigma, an asterisk on the history of college football. Once boasting the most dominant teams in the country, the Ivies haven't boasted a national champion since Cornell in 1939. Finally, they were demoted by the NCAA to its Division I-AA in the late 70s. There would be no more national glory, and football became just another thing to do in the autumn, instead of being an obsession, which it is at Division 1-A colleges.<br /><br />Bernstein does an excellent job of narrating the history of the Ivies. Every school is included, and there are loads of anecdotal sidelights that will delight the reader. The book is also thoroughly researched and is marked by a lively style not often found in university press publications.<br /><br />Then why do I say that this could have been the definitive history of the Ivy League? One word: editing. One would naturally take for granted that a book from a university press would be well-edited, and a book from a press of the University of Pennsylvania being such should be a no-brainer. But the book is spoiled by numerous errors, errors that could have been caught by an editor's sharp eye. Other reviewers have pointed out some of the more outrageous errors as pertains to football, but I give you the most egregious of all:<br /><br />\\"In many ways, the teens were a decade of Ivy prominence. Both presidential elections were all-Ivy affairs: Theodore Roosevelt defeated Woodrow Wilson and William Howard Taft in 1912, and Wilson beat Charles Evans Hughes in 1916.\\" (p. 95)<br /><br />HOW'S THAT AGAIN? ROOSEVELT DEFEATED WILSON IN 1912?? This will come as some news to American Historians. Obviously, history is not a core curriculum course of the University of Pennsylvania these days. I don't blame the author (though he should know better, being a graduate of Princeton), I blame the editors. They're the ones who are supposed to catch these mistakes. I admit that a mistake concerning football history can slip by, but this is a basic fact of American history that slipped right past. Shame on the editors.<br /><br />Nonetheless, I do recommend the book for its strengths and its well-written narrative and lively style. Perhaps the mistakes can be corrected for the paperback edition.torians. Obviously, history is not a core curriculum course of the University of Pennsylvania these days. I don't blame the author (though he should know better, being a graduate of Princeton), I blame the editors. They're the ones who are supposed to catch these mistakes. I admit that a mistake concerning football history can slip by, but this is a basic fact of American history that slipped right past. Shame on the editors. <br /> <br />Nonetheless, I do recommend the book for its strengths and its well-written narrative and lively style. Perhaps the mistakes can be corrected for the paperback edition. <br />	2005-01-03
US	52906303	R1Z4SASL0BPC4R	0520234669	218700173	William Mulholland and the Rise of Los Angeles	Books	3	35	38	N	N	A Great Story Lost in the Details	One of the great stories in American history was the transformation of Los Angeles from a sleepy, anarchic California town into the megalopolis of today. And in any history of this transformation, the figure of William Mulholland looms large, for it was he who almost single-handedly brought about this transformation by providing Los Angeles with the one thing it needed to grow: an abundant water supply. This was accomplished by building an aqueduct to divert water from the Owens River to L.A. But this was no peaceful project; residents of Owens Valley, farmers and ranchers, felt the water had been appropriated from them through cronyism and legal bullying. They retaliated by blowing up sections of the aqueduct in 1924 and 1927. Mulholland himself met his own downfall with the collapse of the St. Francis Dam in 1928, a disaster that killed over 500 people and destroyed Mulholland's career.<br /><br />These are but parts of a great story in American history, but one would never know it from reading his granddaughter's tome, for the vivacity of the times is thoroughly lost in needless detail; almost a year by year survey of her grandfather's accomplishments. Instead she is more intent on refuting the critics' charges, painting Mulholland as a pragmatist guided by a progressive vision of what Los Angeles could become. Because of this stand, her arguments are not altogether convincing; the Owens Valley residents tend to be painted as villains exploited by villains on the press that seek Mulholland's downfall. In the Preface we are given warning of this bias when she takes previous books on the subject to task. Her attempt at exonerating her grandfather for the St. Francis Dam disaster is also unconvincing, almost as if she were attempting to refute the movie \\"Chinatown\\", itself a piece of fictionalized history.<br /><br />If by reading the above paragraph one thinks this biography is lively, think again. The best way to obfuscate an issue is to bury it in details, and the book covers its subject almost year by year, which is a shame given the subject matter and the presence of Mulholland, a mover and shaker who, unfortunately, became a prisoner of his own vision. Mulholland's life is akin to a Greek tragedy, and this is the stuff of which history is made, not the mere recitation of facts. The tragedy is that, given the subject matter, this book could have been so much more than it turned out to be.d the book covers its subject almost year by year, which is a shame given the subject matter and the presence of Mulholland, a mover and shaker who, unfortunately, became a prisoner of his own vision. Mulholland's life is akin to a Greek tragedy, and this is the stuff of which history is made, not the mere recitation of facts. The tragedy is that, given the subject matter, this book could have been so much more than it turned out to be. <br />	2004-12-20
US	52906303	R2TYJL7FOJVZT3	0060934727	960634322	Mike Nelson's Death Rat!	Books	5	2	2	N	Y	Not Only for Mike Nelson Fans	Mike Nelson proves two things with this novel: One, that he has a touch for comedic writing, and Two, that he can find life in old chestnuts of a plot. Here he takes a plot that has seen many an incarnation and turns it into something that becomes quite compelling to read. It concerns one Pontius Feeb, a sixty-year old writer of arcane historical books who suddenly finds himself unemployed when his publisher folds its book division. He suddenly finds there is absolutely no market for his kind of books, so in desperation he turns to the sort of writing of the Nelson DeMille - Tom Clancy - Clive Cussler school. But he is deemed too old to make an effective author, so he recruits a college student to pose as the author, with hilarious results. It has all the makings of Preston Sturges, except that Nelson doesn't supply us with an ing&eacute;nue. Much better than the stuff he made fun of on \\"Mystery Science Theater 3000\\", this is the sort of novel you'll remember bits and pieces from long after you've read it. Highly recommended.	2004-12-01
US	52906303	R21N3YAZAGMZE5	0465024653	204466372	The New Dealers' War: FDR and the War Within World War II	Books	5	34	44	N	Y	When The Legend Conflicts With The Truth, Print The Truth	There have been many excellent reviews already written about this remarkable book and all of them are worth your time. I, for may part, would just like to add this coda, quoted directly from the book itself, and a passage that I believe speaks volumes about America at war:<br />\\"Meanwhile, the mixture of memory and history that constituted America's vision of World War II underwent a remarkable transformation. Forgotten were the reluctance to take up arms, the double-talk Franklin D. Roosevelt used to conceal is intention to make war on Germany  -- revealed so graphically in the leak of Rainbow Five - and the provocative politics that lured Japan into the attack on Pearl Harbor. Also lost to memory was the ferocious antagonism between Roosevelt and Congress. Perhaps most forgotten were the consequences of the policy of unconditional surrender and the hateful tactics it legitimized, terror bombing of civilians and the use of the atomic bomb.<br />Instead, the deepening realization of Hitler's campaign of extermination against the Jews, which only a few Americans understood during the war, justified in many people's minds unconditional surrender, the ruthless air war, and even the atomic bomb. The global conflict slowly became the Good War, something that few of its participants would have called it at the time.\\"<br />Does this sound familiar? And yet it has been the underpinning of every American entry into war since (and including) the American Revolution. Reading this book made me shudder as to what might have happened if, say, we were not so successful in winning this war. Suppose it had bogged down over seven to eight years? And what if FDR, in spite of his chicanery, was not as resolute in pursuing his goal? FDR's only failure in handling the war came back to haunt his successor, Truman: the underestimation of Joseph Stalin. FDR though he could win Stalin over by dint of his forceful personality, the way he had with so many others. Fleming does a great job of pointing out the ability of Harry Truman in not only bringing peace, but in keeping the balance of power. Were it not for Truman's realization of the facts after Potsdam, Stalin might well have ended up as the hands-down winner. Keeping Stalin out of Japan turned out in retrospect to be one of the crucial events of the war. Fleming does every historian and would-be historian a solid turn by taking World War II from the clouds of myth and grounding it firmly in reality.<br />One other note: the book's writing style is such that it is a sheer pleasure to read, which I attribute to the fact Fleming is also an accomplished novelist and thus has a way of making dry facts palatable to the mind. A must-have for anyone interested in American history.inting out the ability of Harry Truman in not only bringing peace, but in keeping the balance of power. Were it not for Truman's realization of the facts after Potsdam, Stalin might well have ended up as the hands-down winner. Keeping Stalin out of Japan turned out in retrospect to be one of the crucial events of the war. Fleming does every historian and would-be historian a solid turn by taking World War II from the clouds of myth and grounding it firmly in reality.<br />One other note: the book's writing style is such that it is a sheer pleasure to read, which I attribute to the fact Fleming is also an accomplished novelist and thus has a way of making dry facts palatable to the mind. A must-have for anyone interested in American history.	2004-07-06
US	52906303	R1V2GF1EFDAGRH	1565848748	701269570	Hatchet Jobs: Writings on Contemporary Fiction	Books	5	4	13	N	N	Peck Is His Own Bad Boy	In each generation an iconoclastic reviewer comes along to topple our mythical notions of what good literature is, and indeed, what good literature should be. This generation, perhaps the last truly literary generation, at least has Dale Peck, who continues the line that stretches from Hazlitt through James, Mencken, Connoly, Prichett, Vidal and Simon.<br /><br />Whether one agrees with him or disagrees with his views is not the point; the value of Peck is to be exposed to his viewpoint, for it is not one we often see. It is certainly not the view of what Vidal calls \\"bookchat,\\" practiced by the New York Times. No, it comes from a passionate love of literature, a love that is often beaten out of us by the time we graduate college, if not sooner. And it is refreshing to see someone with such a passion; someone willing to call a rotten egg a rotten egg, regardless of how long it's been regarded by society as golden.<br />If literature is to survive at all, we need such as Dale Peck. I remember Vidal creating quite a stir when he challenged the long-held notion of academia that the novel began with Richardson's \\"Pamela.\\"  Even though this notion became academic tradition, almost written in stone, Vidal nevertheless traced the novel back to \\"The Golden Ass\\" and \\"the Satyricon.\\"  In other words, the Greeks and Romans long had what we thought was a modern discovery.<br />If Peck can cause half the stir Vidal did, then he has indeed performed a great service not only to literature, but to culture and our battle with the postmodern surrender. Besides, the book is a joy to read and downright entertaining, sure to make one smile and wonder about the moxie Peck certainly has in abundance. More power to him.	2004-06-28
US	52906303	R2GLEQ9RB5NP25	0393324818	346106080	Moneyball: The Art of Winning an Unfair Game	Books	5	5	5	N	Y	Indispensible For Any Serious Baseball Fan	Ever since free agency became integrated into baseball culture, the current wisdom has always been that the small-market teams must finish at the bottom because they don't have the resources to compete with larger market teams such as the New York Yankees, Los Angeles Dodgers, and Chicago White Sox. The 1997 Florida Marlins spent their way to winning the World Series, but had to conduct a fire sale the next year in order to avoid bankruptcy. This, say the pundits, is in keeping with the current wisdom.<br />But there is an exception, and a rather large one at that. The Oakland A's, for years the epitome of the small market team, sharing a small market with the National League San Francisco Giants, have managed to win more games (553) from 1998 through 2003 than any other team save for the large market New York Yankees (598) and the Atlanta Braves (594). Now here's the kicker: In 2002, Oakland won 103 games, as many as the Yankees and two more than the Braves, with a payroll ($42M) only one-third the size of the Yankees ($133M) and half that of the Braves ($94M). Is this merely the exception that proves the rule, or is something else going on here?<br />\\"Moneyball\\" provides some of the answers. It is an in-depth look at how the Oakland A's, without the money of the Yankees, managed to win as many games by just looking at the baseball universe in a different way. The old rule was \\"you gotta spend money to make money.\\" The '97 Florida Marlins spent their way to the World Series, and lost about $30 million in the process. They were forced to dump salary the next year and ended up alienation an already small fan base, which cut attendance even further. Billy Beane, the GM of the Athletics, realized early on that you can't spend what you don't have; thus consistency is the ideal. In this case, consistency is gained by getting the best players for the least money. To achieve this, Beane just looked at the same thing in a different way. Judge players by the things they can control rather than the things they can't control.<br />This is vividly illustrated in the case of Jeremy Brown, a catcher with the University of Alabama who was pooh-poohed by major league scouts, including Oakland's, as a \\"bad body catcher.\\" But when Beane and his staff looked at Brown, they saw the only player in the history of the SEC with three hundred hits and two hundred walks. For Beane, the ability to control the strike zone was the best predicator of future success, and the large number of walks was an indicator of how well Brown was able to control the strike zone. The same held true for a pitcher. The speed of his fastball wasn't as important as the ratio of walks to strikeouts. Brown may have been slightly overweight and slow afoot, but he understood the strike zone. The same with pitcher Barry Zito, another overlooked Beane discovery. Zito may not have had that blazing fastball, but he knew how to manipulate the strike zone. What Beane and his staff did was simple: take statistics that already exist and rank them differently. If the game from the hitter's view is not to make outs, then the stat of on-base percentage becomes the best indicator of plate success.<br />What Beane and his staff knew that the others didn't was that, when humans are involved, the physics of baseball changes dramatically. There are an almost endless variety of books on the physics of baseball, illustrating the Newtonian principles of the curve ball, but when the human factor is computed the game comes down to probabilities. Newton ceases to reign. Heisenberg rules. While Beane's methods do not assure absolute success they do cut down on the probabilities, and that for the serious baseball fan is what the game is all about.<br />The paperback edition contains a beautifully written postscript entitled \\"Inside Baseball's Religious War.\\" It is a counter-attack against the critics of the book and at the same time a devastating example of why baseball is in the mess it's in. The critics missed the point, seeing \\"Moneyball\\" as an exaltation of Billy Beane instead of as an examination of his system and why it has worked as well as it has. If baseball is to prosper, it has to forego the myopia that plagues it, and that is the real point Lewis is making.tics missed the point, seeing \\"Moneyball\\" as an exaltation of Billy Beane instead of as an examination of his system and why it has worked as well as it has. If baseball is to prosper, it has to forego the myopia that plagues it, and that is the real point Lewis is making.	2004-04-30
US	52906303	R11F2ZYG1SX8Q8	0231078307	857521704	Carnival Culture: The Trashing of Taste in America	Books	1	6	6	N	Y	And Your Point Is . . .?	Given the provocative title, I expected to find a full-blown critique of the state of our current culture and just how it got that way. Was I ever wrong: the book was overblown and there was no critique. Nor was there a defense of today's culture. While the book was good at explaining today's culture and its history (particularly the development of the paperback book), there is no follow-up. As one earlier reviewer perceptively noted, it's as if the author was merely writing a term paper. And nowhere is this more evident than in his description of professional wrestling, which he seems to have researched solely on his television set. As if to provide a bit of validity to this exposition, he includes a lengthy quote from Rolaand Barthes' essay on wrestling. Nice, except that Barthes doesn't know what he's talking about, either, and something I would expect from a term paper, not a book. The sections on wrestling and movies only serve to date the book rather badly, and without any sort of conclusions or judgments, the book dates as badly as an issue of Life magazine, only it lacks any nostalgia value. Skip this one and read Neil Postman's Amusing Ourselves to Death instead (which, by the way, the author does critique; dismissing it as a mere jeremiad.) If you must buy this tome, buy it on the cheap; your disappointment will then be less.	2004-04-22
US	52906303	R1CXTAY8LEXR6J	0802824951	831893681	Silent Music: The Life, Work, and Thought of St. John of the Cross	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Excellent Introduction toOne of the Great Mystics	St. John of the Cross, along with his mentor, St. Teresa of Avila, is regarded by many as the greatest mystic produced by the Catholic Church. His writings are timeless, touching the same strings of the 20th century soul as they did the 16th or 19th century soul. However, unlike St. Teresa, who seems to be in the throes of a serious revival, little is known of this fascinating thinker beyond his published writings. Robert Herrera performs a worthy service for all those interested in the Spanish mystic. Herrera provides the reader with a solid look into his life and times, finishing up with an analysis of his writings. For those who have not yet gotten around to reading St. John, this is a useful introduction. For those familiar with the Saint's writings, this slim volume is a valuable companion.	2004-04-19
US	52906303	R2LLLPSFJ2C3QN	0810114461	4317857	Nature: Course Notes from the Collège de France	Books	5	37	39	N	Y	Important Reading for Students of Merleau-Ponty	\\"La Nature\\" is a volume that should be most welcome by students of Merleau-Ponty. It is a translation of three courses given by Merleau-Ponty at the College de France.<br />The first course, given in 1956-57 is entitled \\"The Concept of Nature,\\" a survey of the historical elements that constitute the present concept of nature, from Aristotle and the Stoics, through a new reading of Descartes, Kant and a novel look at Schelling. From there it's on to Bergson and Husserl. Merleau-Ponty is tracing the idea of nature in each thinker and how it corresponds to ontology, attempting a new vision of nature more in step with recent developments in science. But he squanders the gains he made when he deals with the developments in physics. This stands as the weakest part of the lectures. Though he gives a good summary of quantum mechanics, he fails to understand the ramifications of quantum physics and its effect on nature, and, ultimately, ontology, preferring instead to hide behind Bergson and the process philosophy of Whitehead. Instead of using the new physics as a starting point, he instead settles for the cul-de-sac of metaphysics.<br />The second course given in 1957-58, is concerned with deconstructing the Cartesian concept of Nature by examining the recent advances in biology and behavioral studies. Animal as machine is replaced by the animal as being finding itself in the world: How does the animal show itself to others (including humans) - leading to asking what is the structure, then, of its behavior and how does it signify? His lecture of Lorenz's study of instinct is the highlight of this section.<br />The third course, 1959-60, is entitled \\"Nature and Logos: The Human Body.\\" He re-examines his findings of the previous years and the emergence of the human body at the intersection of Nature and reason: \\"the concern is to grasp humanity first as another manner of being a body - to see humanity emerge just like Being in the manner of a watermark, not as another substance, but as `interbeing', and not as an imposition of a for-itself on a body in-itself.\\" This would later begin to developed in his last work, \\"The Visible and the Invisible,\\" left unfinished by his sudden death. One can only wonder where he might have gone had he only lived to complete the work. These lectures give us a tantalizing peek into what well may have been.nce, but as `interbeing', and not as an imposition of a for-itself on a body in-itself.\\" This would later begin to developed in his last work, \\"The Visible and the Invisible,\\" left unfinished by his sudden death. One can only wonder where he might have gone had he only lived to complete the work. These lectures give us a tantalizing peek into what well may have been.	2004-04-05
US	52906303	R1AS9IBNZRF2SA	1592571336	260195509	Jerry Capeci's Gang Land - Fifteen Years of Covering the Mafia	Books	5	26	26	N	N	Tales of the Real Life Sopranos	New York City has always been notorious as one of the capitals of Organized Crime (Chicago is the other). And those of us who follow the doings of the Mob have been fortunate over the years to read Jerry Capeci's &quot;Gangland&quot; columns in the New York Daily News. Capeci encapulated the doings of the Five Families each week in a column written with a panache and style rarely seen these days. His column was so incisive that John Gotti reputedly considered issuing a contract on him.<br />Those who were not fortunate enough to read Capeci's columns when they originally ran can now rejoice with the publication of &quot;Jerry Capeci's Gangland,&quot; a compilation of his columns over the years. This is more than just plain good writing; it is living history, a chronicle of the times when infighting coincided with RICO indictments to diminish the power and glory of New York's Five Families.<br />Compelling from beginning to end, this is a book any interested reader should have on his or her shelf.	2004-04-02
US	52906303	R3OY9J40VIL48S	B00008JYUP	825560444	Expect the Unexpected (Or You Won't Find It): A Creativity Tool Based on the Ancient Wisdom of Heraclitus	Books	5	14	14	N	Y	Philosophy as if it Matters	I was first tempted to give this book only one star for disparaging the notion of \\"pure philosophy.\\" But then I began to question what the purpose of philosophy was. Who has done philosophy more of a disservice, Von Oech, who sees the creative potential in Heraclitus and passes it on to willing readers, or the academics, who have purified and rarefied philosophy into something quite unrecognizable to the ancient Greeks? That was the easiest question I've had to answer in quite a while. Von Oech gets what the pointy-headed pettifoggers of academe do not: philosophy is only effective as it relates to the world. It is not a mere matter of linguistics nor an interpretation by each textual reader, but rather a force guiding humans towards creativity through its answers to our everyday questions. There was a time in the past when philosophers wrote for the educated public. Nowadays, philosophers write for other philosophers, substituting rhetoric and wordplay for creativity. The loser is our culture, which depends upon philosophy as a lynchpin.<br />Von Oech's fascination with Heraclitus goes back to 1971 while studying in Germany. Picking up a book of Heraclitus' epigrams, Von Oech became instantly hooked when he read \\"the way up and the way down are one and the same.\\" He writes that this caused him to spend the next several weeks trying to figure out its meaning. Since then, he says, he's wanted to put out a \\"creativity tool\\" based on the works of Heraclitus.<br />And what a creativity tool he has created. His grasp of Heraclitus is firm and, moreover, he is able to apply each epigram he examines to the problems of thinking and creativity in the workplace. The reader will also notice a warmth coming through: a deep love of the subject and philosophy in general, something we do not always get from our academics, as anyone who had to sit through Philosophy 101 with a boring pedant will tell you. And Von Oech will succeed in doing what our friends in the ivory tower have failed to do, and that is to instill a love of wisdom in the heads of his students. For that, Roger von Oech, I salute you.failed to do, and that is to instill a love of wisdom in the heads of his students. For that, Roger von Oech, I salute you.	2004-03-24
US	52906303	R1Y4ANPTPW3K48	0151005257	512087721	Letters : 1925-1975	Books	5	24	25	N	Y	Finally Available	Perhaps it's a sign of the times in which we live, but the biggest stories of recent note in philosophy have been Heidegger's flirtation with National Socialism and the revelation of his affair with his student, Hannah Arendt, in the 1920s. The affair with Arendt has left a bad account of the affair (Ettinger) and a badly written novel in its wake, but perhaps these lumps of fool's gold have led us to the real thing, for they helped persuade Heidegger's son, Herman, to open the private files of his famous father and release these letters to the public. These, along with the letters to Arendt that are extant, comprise a volume that belongs in the library of every serious student of Arendt and Heidegger. It provides a glimpse of the lives and thought of two intellectual giants and of how events led to their estrangement and shaky reconciliation.<br />The first part of the book comes across as a one-way conversation, as only Heidegger's letters to Arendt are extant. Obviously Heidegger was smart enough to destroy Arendt's letters lest they fall into the hands of Mrs. H. The tone of these early letters is that of a besotted adolescent. Heidegger sends her bad poetry and, in one letter, refers to her as his \\"little wood nymph.\\" As these letters were meant to be strictly private, we cannot help but suffer the embarrassment of an unintentional voyeur. However, the section ends on an ominous note with a letter from Heidegger in 1933 answering Arendt's charges that he is anti-Semitic. This came shortly after the ascension of Hitler and makes us sad that Heidegger destroyed Arendt's letter making the charges.<br />The correspondence begins anew after the war and only because Arendt saw it in her heart to forgive her former mentor and in effect bury the hatchet. Heidegger seems most pleased and the letters lead to a personal reconciliation with Arendt visiting Heidegger and his wife in Germany. But all was not to remain quiet. Heidegger had confessed all to his wife, and took her willingness to see Arendt again as a sign all was back to normal, as it were. The letters he sends in 1950 give the impression that he is more than willing to resume their affair; to once again have his cake and eat it, too. But a sudden dispatch from Heidegger warns Arendt to cancel a postponed visit and not to write for a while. Seems Elfride Heidegger was not the willing accomplice her husband believed her to be.<br />But time heals all and the letters (and visits) resume. Heidegger is more interested in what he is doing and the American response than in what Arendt is doing. In one telling letter, he admits he has no idea of what she means by \\"radical evil.\\" Another subject on which Arendt treads lightly is that of Karl Jaspers: Jaspers and Heidegger attempted a reconciliation after the war, but failed and each has bitterness toward the other with Arendt playing the diplomat in the middle, though in her letters with Jaspers there is no doubt about whose side she is on.<br />Another missed opportunity is the sudden death of Merleau-Ponty a few months before he was to meet Heidegger in Marburg. Arendt has a higher opinion of him than does Heidegger, although in a philosophical debate I'd place my money on Merleau-Ponty, whose forays into aesthetics, ontology and physics expose Heidegger as stuck in a neo-Kantian continuum.<br />All in all, this is the book students of these two intellectual giants have waited for, and I, for one was not disappointed in the least.her willingness to see Arendt again as a sign all was back to normal, as it were. The letters he sends in 1950 give the impression that he is more than willing to resume their affair; to once again have his cake and eat it, too. But a sudden dispatch from Heidegger warns Arendt to cancel a postponed visit and not to write for a while. Seems Elfride Heidegger was not the willing accomplice her husband believed her to be.<br />But time heals all and the letters (and visits) resume. Heidegger is more interested in what he is doing and the American response than in what Arendt is doing. In one telling letter, he admits he has no idea of what she means by \\"radical evil.\\" Another subject on which Arendt treads lightly is that of Karl Jaspers: Jaspers and Heidegger attempted a reconciliation after the war, but failed and each has bitterness toward the other with Arendt playing the diplomat in the middle, though in her letters with Jaspers there is no doubt about whose side she is on.<br />Another missed opportunity is the sudden death of Merleau-Ponty a few months before he was to meet Heidegger in Marburg. Arendt has a higher opinion of him than does Heidegger, although in a philosophical debate I'd place my money on Merleau-Ponty, whose forays into aesthetics, ontology and physics expose Heidegger as stuck in a neo-Kantian continuum. <br />All in all, this is the book students of these two intellectual giants have waited for, and I, for one was not disappointed in the least.	2004-03-18
US	52906303	R16SJQ173YA2BV	0195160142	713496812	Living with Nietzsche: What the Great "Immoralist" Has to Teach Us	Books	5	35	38	N	Y	An Excellent Introduction to a Great thinker	Nietzsche once stated that there are no facts, but only interpretations. Judging from the volume of tomes written about him over the years, especially in the last 20 years, scholars seem to have taken him literally. There now exist a ton of interpretations, each claiming to reveal the \\"true\\" Nietzsche, based on some angle gleaned from his writings. For some0one familiar with Nietzsche, this presents no problem; but for the student coming to read Nietzsche for- the first time, the plethora of various interpretations can be so daunting as to possibly prove discouraging, which would be a great loss, for there is no greater intellectual pleasure than reading Nietzsche.<br />For those who are new to Nietzsche, this is the book for you. Rather than try to determine what Nietzsche is the \\"true\\" Nietzsche, Solomon instead looks at the Nietzsche who first appears to in his writings: the Nietzsche of the personal insight, the moralist who wants to give us another way to think about life, especially the inner life. The book most students begin with when encountering Nietzsche is \\"Thus Spake Zarathustra,\\" a book profoundly about the inner life.<br />The book is also rewarding in that Solomon does not write like an academic, but rather with a free flowing style that captures the reader's attention and draws him to the points about the subject Solomon wishes to make. Solomon loves his subject and that enthusiasm is evident when reading the book, which makes it even harder to put down.<br />While I would strongly recommend this book to those who are new to Nietzsche, I can safely say that even the most well-read Nietzsche follower will find intellectual chestnuts worth the time throughout this volume. I can only say in passing that Solomon is the professor I wish I had when I took my first course on this great thinker.	2003-12-24
US	52906303	R2IKXSH1QIVDLG	0966803051	353908122	The Secret Life of Humphrey Bogart: The Early Years (1899-1931)	Books	1	29	34	N	N	Lurid? Yes. True? I doubt it.	In today's age, when nothing can said to be sacred, Darwin Porter proves that a certain sort of shock value still persists. Porter, who specializes in the kiss and tell biographical novel, turns his focus to a &quot;straight&quot; biography. In this case he digs up the skeletons that kept company in the closet that was the life of Humphrey Bogart.<br />In order to concoct such a tome, Porter uses the old tabloid formula: one part truth and one part memories by co-stars (all of whom are conveniently decreased). Blend well, add five parts pure baloney, and presto! A new lurid biography, perfect for those times in the bathroom when a Jackie Collins novel is not available.<br />So how true is Porter's book? He bases Bogart's early life on incidents that did happen and speculates from there. For instance, it was commonly known that Bogart did not injure his lip during his Naval service as he never saw action. Porter attributes the injury to a beating by Bogart's father. O.K., that is a plausible explanation. So is the intrigue during his first marriage to Helen Mencken, who was one of the shining lights of Broadway's Lavendar Set. However, Porter gets himself in deep literary doo-doo when he begins to speculate about everyone Bogart supposedly slept with, and the reader can almost feel the book's theme derail as Porter plays a &quot;can you top this&quot; game with himself. If Bogart were truly the rake Porter makes him out to be, one wonders how he ever found time to act.<br />Porter cites the notes on Bogart's life by Bogart's friend and fellow actor Kenneth MacKenna and gossip columnist Stanley Haggart. Porter also depends on the testimony of such co-stars as Joan Blondell, Ruth Gordon, George Raft, Eric Linden and Mercedes de Acosta. The problem here is that the sources were well into the twilight of their years when interviewed and we don't know for sure whether they were working Porter to an extent or whether they had reached the age where legend becomes fact.<br />The use of a form of narrative usually found in a novel is also a hinderance, as neither Porter nor his sources could have been privy to the sort of intimate conversations he claims took place.<br />And finally, take into consideration the author's praise for Kenneth Anger, who brought back into vogue the sort of reporting one thought had died with the demise of &quot;Confidential&quot; magazine.<br />The book is a naughty pleasure, but in the final review, reader beware.>The use of a form of narrative usually found in a novel is also a hinderance, as neither Porter nor his sources could have been privy to the sort of intimate conversations he claims took place.<br />And finally, take into consideration the author's praise for Kenneth Anger, who brought back into vogue the sort of reporting one thought had died with the demise of &quot;Confidential&quot; magazine.<br />The book is a naughty pleasure, but in the final review, reader beware.	2003-12-23
US	52906303	R3M1XVK2KRIRD8	1401072178	101924220	CHOKEHOLD: Pro Wrestling's Real Mayhem Outside the Ring	Books	5	11	14	N	Y	Required Reading For Wrestling Fans	\\"Chokehold\\" is no ordinary wrestling biography. It is the story of one man's attempt to challenge the Powers-That-Be for fair wages and benefits. He could have been a superstar of the mat world, and I remember him distinctly being pushed for such a position, but his integrity and ethics prevented such a future. They also may have saved him from an early death from the wrestling lifestyle that has left so many other victims in its wake.<br />Along the way, not only is the story of Jim Wilson told, but  the seamy world of professional wrestling is exposed in all its faded notoriety. The fact that shady and illegal shenanigans happen from time to time in sports is nothing new to most readers, but the fact that these very same doings have been part and parcel of the way professional wrestling has been doing business since its inception should give readers cause for concern. Behind the glitz of the television camera and the character angles is a business that sees many of its most talented performers pass away at relatively early ages; a business that treats its workers like serfs on a feudal estate, telling them to win or lose, how to win or lose and where to appear, all the while calling them \\"independent contractors.\\" This, of course, to deny them health and pension benefits available to most other workers. And, most astonishing of all, while Congress and the Justice Department have vetted boxing and other sports over the years, the image of pro wrestling as an unbelievable sham has kept it protected, except for a brief period in the 50's, when pro wrestling was convicted of Antitrust misdeeds, which were quickly forgotten by all parties concerned a few years later.<br />Instead of wasting your money on prefabricated biographies of WWE superstars, where the only things you really learn is that wrestling is wonderful and Vince McMahon the most wonderful of all, read this book, for it is the closest wrestling fans will get to the truth that underlies the circus-style atmosphere of that strange hybrid of athletics and entertainment.tmosphere of that strange hybrid of athletics and entertainment.	2003-11-20
US	52906303	R2WLC2W0XKILU4	1591020603	464637646	The Heidegger-Jaspers Correspondence (1920-1963) (Contemporary Studies in Philosophy and the Human Sciences.)	Books	5	17	19	N	N	They Were Giants Then	The history of 20th century German philosophy can be neatly summed up in three words: Husserl, Heidegger and Jaspers. They were the giants of the rich philosophical tradition and most of 20the century thought is influenced by them, either as followers who adapted their thought to other paths or as opponents, deriding what was seen as a preponderence of metaphysics over \\"clear thinking.\\"<br />The emphasis on Heidegger in recent years has expanded into an investigation of his personal life, intertwined as it was with the Nazi regime during the '30s. We have access to the Arendt-Jaspers correspondence, but only get to know Heidegger second-hand. That is why the release of the Heidegger-Jaspers correspondence is a tresure for every student of philosophy. Not only do we gain valuable insights into the workings of each author's conception of existentialism, but we also get to soak in the atmosphere of German university life, and its view of scholarship, so different from our own universities today, which now serve as little else than extensions of high school.<br />The letters also give us the opportunity to see how the Heidegger-Japsers friendship fared over the years. (The letters are from 1920 to 1963.) During the '20s, the two are very close and share critiques of each others philosphy. During the '30s, with the rise of the Nazis, we see a cooling off due to the fact Heidegger sides with the Nazis and Jaspers, whose wife was Jewish,was appalled by what was happening to Germany. Very few letters are exchanged during the period from 1936 to 1948, when Heidegger, by now defanged by the Allied occupation, once again ventures into the public eye. The letters of this perios lack the warmth of the letters from the '20s, with Heidegger wishing to forget what happened in the '30s and Jaspers wanting an explanation.<br />This is an unforgettable foray into the livers anf thought of two giants of twentieth century philosophy, and, as such, is a must for every philosophical library.ry.	2003-08-08
US	52906303	RSCIVB6T9IYOY	1568212712	292455248	Existence (The Master Work Series)	Books	5	12	12	N	Y	Introducing a New School of Psychoanalysis	While American psychoanalysis during the 40s and 50s was under the influence of Freud, Europeans were beginnig to branch out in new directions, especially influenced by the existentialism of Martin Heidegger, Edmund Husserl, Jean-Paul Sartre and Maurice Merleau-Ponty. &quot;Existence,&quot; edited by Rollo May, was the first book to introduce Americans to the writings of those who worked under the mantle of existential psychology. Contained within are essays by Erwin Straus and Ludwig Binswanger, among others. The second half of the book contains three essays by Binswanger not previously available in America.<br />Although the book is a good introduction to existential psychoanalysis, it contians a glaring omission by the absence of writings from Medard Boss, a Swiss Dasienanalysist who became the leading light of this type of therapy in Europe. Despite this omission, however, the book remains an eye-opener for anyone unfamiliar with existential psychoanalysis and is recommended for psychology student and philosophy student alike.	2003-06-27
US	52906303	R3LEVPAKK4TKF5	0060559284	763216843	Off with Their Heads: Traitors, Crooks & Obstructionists in American Politics, Media & Business	Books	5	95	120	N	N	He's Mad As Hell And He's Not Going to Take It Anymore.	There have been many books published since the events of September 11, 2002. Most skewer the Clinton legacy and the left-wing opposition to Bush. Some are excellent (O?Reilly and Coulter), some interesting (Savage) and some in between (Hannity). But this book by Dick Morris has them all beaten and beaten by a large margin. The difference? Unlike the others, who are looking into the fishbowl, Morris has actually lived in the fishbowl as an advisor to Bill Clinton. This special insight is what fuels his book and gives it a special weight not shared by the others.<br />Although he begins with an attack against the left-wing bias so prevalent in our media, Morris does not stop there. He takes on all manner of sacred cows, and his chapter on the Hollywood liberals transformed by the media into America?s newest set of intellectuals is worth the price of admission alone, especially as concerns Streisand and Sarandon. His take, on the disingenuousness of France during the Iraq war, is also hilarious, and dead on target.<br />What also makes Morris so special from the rest is his strong reliance on facts over opinions and feelings and his refusal to play the game of demonization. Clinton may have been dead wrong in his views and actions on foreign terrorism, but he was not a traitor. The only real venom I saw from Morris was toward France, and there I couldn?t disagree with him, especially with their tasteless and racist treatment of Serena Williams at the recent French Open still reverberating in my mind.<br />Morris does run out of steam at the end when he begins taking on a slew of offenders (elected officials misusing tobacco settlement monies, the tobacco industry itself, and that all-round target, Congress itself), but, still, he does so with a deftness and panache that is simply not found in the other books on the subjects. Funny, informative and on-target.	2003-06-26
US	52906303	R1PZL2N9DBT9PO	0312253699	460841757	Apocalypse Movies: End of the World Cinema	Books	5	3	4	N	N	What a Way To Go!	When I first picked up this book I was expecting a cursory explanation of movies such as \\"Five\\" or \\"On the Beach,\\" each film accompanied by a long-winded explication of the movie's social relevance and dull political analysis. To say I was pleasantly surprised upon reading this book is, to say the least, putting it mildly.<br />Newman covers the phenomenon of end-of-the-world films with a zest and a writing style rarely seen in works such as this. He deftly traces the genesis of the movies back to their ancestors in literature, even citing Mary Shelley's \\"The Last Man,\\" her second science-fiction novel. (It was written in 1826 and is about a plague that destroys mankind.) It takes a thorough knowledge of the subject-matter to be able to speak of Mary Shelley in the same breath as Roger Corman. And it takes a thoroughly facile writing style to keep us interested until the back cover. Fortunately, Newman possesses both.<br />And did I mention Roger Corman? Yes I did, and this is what makes the book such a delight. Newman covers all end-of-the-world movies, noting correctly that the world does not necessarily have to end; the threat is enough. Whether it's \\"The Thing From Another World,\\" or the ants of \\"Them,\\" or even the paper-mache crabs of Corman's \\"Attack of the Crab Monsters,\\" each film gets its due in Newman's pages.<br />So for those who wiled away a Saturday afternoon watching Godzilla save Tokyo from yet another guy in a monster suit, remember: you weren't just watching a Grade-Z movie, you were watching an apocalypse movie.	2003-04-02
US	52906303	RE3TJM233Z56U	0872206203	919469963	Spinoza: Complete Works	Books	5	118	122	N	Y	A Bargain for the Price	Scholars, students and those who just plain love philosophy should be overjoyed at the release of this volume of Spinoza's collected works, the first in English. The Shirley translation is excellent, easy to follow, and much smoother in general than E.M. Curley's Cartesian-anchored exposition. Until this volume came along I was using three different editions of his collected works. I cannot describe the pleasure of having all Spinoza's works at my fingertips. It pays to be able to consolidate.<br />The Hackett edition is study, the pages quite thick considering such a lengthy volume, and sewn with thread, ensuring a lasting product, especially comforting considering the price asked. Still, it is a bargain when compared with the Curley edition published by Princeton. Volume Two of that edition has not even been published, though Volume One has been out for quite some time. If you love Spinoza and want to consolidate your collection into one volume, you can't go wrong with the Shirley translation.	2003-03-03
US	52906303	R18P4MXQ08TZD8	0521495830	514599202	Hobbes: A Biography	Books	5	20	21	N	Y	As Close to the Standard Edition As It Gets	One, if not the first, in a series of biographies of European philosophers by Cambridge University Press, this volume more than holds its own and is bound to becomne the standard text on the life of Thomas Hobbes.<br />Deftly written and extremely well researched, this is a volume not only for the scholar of English philosophy or history, but for the well-read layman as well. Martinich presents his subject chronologically, as any good biography should, with brief stopovers for analysis of each Hobbes text both philosophically and within the historical context against which it was written. Martinich is most unusual in that he does not take his own words as the last ones on the subject; there are pages on his disagreements with other writers on interpretations of both the life and thought of Hobbes, which makes this volume both unusual and valuable to any understanding of its subject.<br />Pricey, but strongly recommended, especially if one has any of the other volumes in the Cambridge series. If possible, wait for the paperback . . . but not too long, for there is much about Hobbes one will miss.	2003-02-28
US	52906303	R1FVM6O1YK3VSM	0892815671	620210357	Meditations on the Soul: Selected Letters of Marsilio Ficino	Books	5	32	32	N	Y	Fascinating Side Glimpse Into the Renaissance	A book definitely recommended for students of the history of philosophy or students of the history of the Renaissance. Most histories, no matter how deep and well-written, can only scratch the surface of this fascinating period. Original works of creativity, autobiography or letters are necessary in order to fill in the gaps that naturally occur to us tourists of these times.<br />Ficino makes a wonderful guide for the intellectual explorer. He was a major figure of Renaissance thought, marking the transition from the Aristotelianism of the later Middle Ages to a rediscovery of Plato and Neoplatonism. Ficino translated Plato's dialogues, along with many Neoplatonic works, into Latin, making them accessible to Western scholars for the first time. His masterpiece, &quot;Platonic Theology,&quot; was a demonstration of his belief that Platonism, unlike Aristotelianism, was compatible with Christian dogma.<br />The letters of Ficino give us a rare glimpse into the workings of this great mind during the period he was formulating his magnum opus, as well as a window into the political climate of the times. This was an era when the letter was 'the' form of communication and his letters remain as fresh today as they did when they were written, making the book even more compelling, if possible.<br />A volume that deserves to be in every scholarly library.	2003-02-28
US	52906303	R3E9TWA5WGELPK	0195113624	334436313	John Scottus Eriugena (Great Medieval Thinkers)	Books	5	15	16	N	N	An Excellent Introduction to an Unjustly Forgotten Thinker	Deirdre Carabine has written a concise, well thought out and extremely well written account of the life and philosophy of John Scottus Eruigena.<br />Although time has not been kind to Eriugena, his contibution to both philosophy and Christian theology cannot be denied. He stands out as an intellectual bridge between the age of Augustine and Pseudo-Dionysus and Anselm during an age when Europe was only beginning to get back on its intellectual feet. His most original and important work, the &quot;Periphyson&quot;, remains as possibly the most important philosophical text of its time.<br />Carabine examines not only Eriugena the teacher and translator of Greek thought, but also Eriugena, upon whom that Greek thought, especially in its Neoplatonic form, lay at the heart of his metaphysics and his attempt to reintroduce the notion of Being back into philosophy.<br />An introduction, especially to such an original and compelling thinker as Eriugena can either scare us away from further studies or prod us on to learn more. Carabine has successfully accomplished the latter, and more power to her.	2003-02-12
US	52906303	R3LIVH7LZRWLXD	1553663055	473151497	Top 100 Pro Wrestlers of All Time	Books	2	28	35	N	Y	Myopic View of Wrestling History	One of the most popular oxymorons among wrestling fans is \\"wrestling history.\\" Unlike baseball, football or other sports that trace their roots and superstars back to forgotten eras, wrestling writers, by and large, live in the eternal now, with wrestling history stretching as far back to when they first became interested in it. It's not that they have no interest in the past; they just cannot conceive of it. After all, it happened before they were born.<br />And it is this mindset that dooms what otherwise is an excellent survey of wrestling, replete with photos from the library of Dr. Mike Lano, one of the sport's greatest photographers. Ric Flair the #1 wrestler of all time? Sorry, but given the standards of history, that honor goes to Lou Thesz. Thesz was not only heads and tails above Flair as a wrestler, but it was also Thesz who shaped the course of wrestling history when he became NWA champion and united wrestling promotions across the country, giving the NWA, and wrestling, a cache it had never before enjoyed. Without Thesz, it could well be argued that there would be no Flair, for without the iron hand of Thesz, there might not even be an NWA surviving into the 80's.<br />The inclusion of Japanese wrestlers Rikidozan and Antonio Inoki to such lofty spots also shows the myopic bias of the editors. This is the fallacy of the Hardcore fan, who has been so steeped in Japanese wrestling lore so as to actually believe it. When Inoki bought the Cleveland-Buffalo based NWF in the mid-70s, he quickly put himself over as champ. He just as quickly put the promotion out of business in the U.S., for here he had the charisma of a toad. Try Strangler Lewis, the dominant champion of the 20s and well into the 30s. It could be said of wrestling that it was fake, but no one called the Strangler a faker. How about Frank Gotch, whose 1908 title bout with George Hackenschmidt was covered all over the world?<br />One might even make a case for Joseph \\"Toots\\" Mondt, a superb middleweight who, as a promoter, devised the game as we know it today. Over 90% of the finishes and about 60% of the finishing holds came from the fertile mind of Toots.<br />So is this book worth your time and money? Yes. For the reasons that (1) there is very little of wrestling's past ever mentioned; and (2) At the least, this book will make one think and will encourage debate. Besides, every serious fan will purchase it anyway for his or her library regardless of its faults.leweight who, as a promoter, devised the game as we know it today. Over 90% of the finishes and about 60% of the finishing holds came from the fertile mind of Toots.<br />So is this book worth your time and money? Yes. For the reasons that (1) there is very little of wrestling's past ever mentioned; and (2) At the least, this book will make one think and will encourage debate. Besides, every serious fan will purchase it anyway for his or her library regardless of its faults.	2003-02-11
US	52906303	R3IQJ76FRE56AP	0719036240	622193060	Rational Fears: American Horror in the 1950s	Books	3	1	4	N	Y	Same Old, Same Old, With  Few Surprises	Yet another in a seemingly endless procession by academics seeking to fit horror films into some sort of Film Theory niche. In this case they play the 'id' to the Fordist (i.e. Henry Ford) 'superego' of society. The book is almost redeemed by the chapters on the writings of Richard Matheson, Charles Beaumont and Robert Bloch, three masters of horror/sci-fi whose works have been largely forgotten by the mainsteam culture. But is it enough to spend the money for this book? Depends on how much of a collector/scholar one happens to be. That and the size of the wallet.<br />For those who want to experience the joy of these sort of films, I would rather recommend the works of David J. Skal, Bill Warren, and Michael J. Weldon, all of whose works can be purchased on this site.	2003-01-05
US	52906303	RYI4XYFV7G8AV	1566631025	869552450	To Sleep with the Angels: The Story of a Fire	Books	5	58	59	N	Y	Solid Reporting Makes For Compelling Reading	Many books have been written about real-life tragedies, and in this sense, Cowan and Kuenster's book is no different. However, there is a thin line in these type of books between boring the reader by burying the human aspect of the story with an overload of factual material and becoming nothing more than a non-fiction hankie weeper. Quite a few books have disappointed me in the past by straying to either one side or the other. Not so with this one. It is a solid piece of reporting that does not lose the human dimension of the tragedy. Nor does it obscure the investigation and the facts with too much emphasis on the human dimension.<br />The fire at Our Lady of the Angels was one of the worst tragedies to strike America, made even more so in that the vast majority of its victims were innocent children. The authors follow the story from the day it occured to the fire itself and the heroic efforts of the fire department to the later delegation of blame and recriminations from what was seen as a bureaucratic conspiracy. In doing so they manage to bring the reader into the story not merely as a spectator but almost as a fellow reporter, sharing not only facts, but also conjectures and whispers plus personal items about the victims, always careful always to straddle the line between objectivity and thje trap of a \\"crusading\\" journalism. By letting the story speak for itself, they bring it home all the more forcefully, to where no one who reads it will remain unaffected.<br />This book should also serve as a warning against the false sense of security that this sort of thing cannot happen again. There are still many schools, public and private, at risk, and this is a book that should be read by every parent with children still in school, and not only during Fire Prevention Week.	2002-11-13
US	52906303	R20Y562PI85CDB	1582341761	871434661	The Outfit: The Role of Chicago's Underworld in the Shaping of Modern America	Books	5	41	43	N	Y	Compelling Look at the Chicago Mob After Capone	&quot;The Outfit&quot; is a well written, thoroughly comprehensive look at the post-Capone history of organized crime in the city of Chicago. Gus Russo does an excellent job of leaving no stone unturned as he chronicles the Outfit's activity from the jailing of Capone to its decline in the 90s. Along the way we meet the gangsters who made the Chicago mob rich and famous: Tony &quot;Joe Batters&quot; Accardo, Paul &quot;the Waiter&quot; Ricca, &quot;Curly&quot; Humphries, Johnny Roselli,Jake &quot;Greasy Thumb&quot; Guzik, and Sam &quot;Mooney&quot; Giancana. Russo discusses the role of each in making the Chicago Syndicate the power it was in the world of organized crime.<br />Russo's breezy style makes &quot;The Outfit&quot; an absolute joy to read, deftly mixing facts and ancedotes like a master chef. Read about the takeover of IATSE, the Hollywood union, and the infiltration of the mob into the world of the Hollywood studios; the Mob's entry and takeover of Las Vegas; the infiltration into the Teamsters and the scheming of the Outfit to fix the 1960 presidential election and what happened when they were doublecrossed. It was by no means a smooth ride - along the way Russo details the eforts of law enforcement to balance the books, so to speak, with the result that the Outfit always had to keep scheming, keep looking, for new rackets and businesses to infiltrate. Russo keeps the pages turning with a compelling style that makes the book's 550 pages seem like 100 when you hit the end.<br />Few books even attempt to cover the history of the Chicago Mob after Al Capone left the scene. Fewer still are this enjoyuable. A must for crime historians and those just interested in a good book.	2002-09-18
US	52906303	R1H4XXDXJH818Y	1887368426	299860454	Richard Matheson's The Twilight Zone Scripts (Volume 1)	Books	5	21	22	N	N	Classic Scripts By a Master of Suspense	\\"The Twilight Zone\\" has long been acknowledged as a television classic. Not only can episodes still be seen on the SciFi Channel, but the show has also proven to be a durable video and DVD best seller.<br />The stories presented on the show are intelligent and have a timeless quality and charm about them that makes even repeated viewings seem new. One of the main reasons for this is the contributions of Richard Matheson. A noted sci-fi and horror novelist with several books turned into classic movies (\\"Incredible Shrinking Man\\", \\"I Am Legend\\", which became \\"The Last Man on Earth\\", and later \\"The Omega Man\\" with Charlton Heston, and \\"Whatever Dreams May Come\\"), Matheson was a master of the short story, a style perfect for the 30 minute \\"Twilight Zone\\" format. While the scripts cannot fully take the place of the televised story, reading them is like reading a short story, with the advantage that the reader is able to see how the story is constructed from scene to scene.<br />The scripts included in this volume are as follows: \\"The Last Flight\\", A World of Difference\\", \\"A World of His Own\\", \\"Nick of Time\\" (Who can forget the sight of William Shatner feeding penny after penny into the fortune telling machine with the Devil's head?), \\"The Invaders\\" (Agnes Moorehead versus tiny invaders from another world. It was the first episode I saw as a child and continues to scare me.), \\"Once Upon a Time\\", \\"Little Girl Lost\\", and \\"Young Man's Fancy\\".<br />For those who loved the series or just for those who love a good script.	2002-08-31
US	52906303	R3MSLUYXY4CO86	1887368523	10701523	Richard Matheson's The Twilight Zone Scripts (Volume 2)	Books	5	17	17	N	N	More From the Master	This sceond volume of Richard Matheson's classic scripts for \\"The Twilight Zone,\\" covers his work for the 1963-64 seasons. Scripts included in this volume are as follows:<br />\\"Mute\\"<br />\\"Death Ship\\"<br />\\"Steel\\" (Great performance by Lee Marvin)<br />\\"Nightmare at 20,000 Feet\\" (The classic with William Shatner. Much better than its remake in \\"Twilight Zone: The Movie\\")<br />\\"Night Call\\"<br />\\"Spur of the Moment\\"<br />Like the first volume, worth your money and time.	2002-08-31
US	52906303	R5L0G013DNIO3	0671201581	635633775	A History of Western Philosophy	Books	5	16	17	N	N	THE Introduction to Western Thought	I'm going to make this short but sweet. There are many books out there promising the reader an introduction to philosophy. And more times than less these books do not measure up to the reader's expectations, or simply bore the reader and cause philosophy to lose another interested adherent. If you have ever wanted to know what philosophy was all about, whether a novice or simply a victim of an &quot;Intro to Philosophy&quot; course at college, this is the only book you will ever need. But I guarantee it won't be the only book you'll purchase on the subject of philosophy.<br />Written for the intelligent public with a verve and panache in the style that shows the author's love of the subject, this book will stimulate your interest as it makes the foggiest questions clear. No matter what the price you pay for it, it will go down as the best intellectual investment you've ever made. Sure, the are prejudices shown in the book, and Lord Russell was a strong-willed philosopher. But you will find yourself purchasing supplemental books on the subject to determine whether Russell was right or wrong in his opinion. You will already have the facts, due to Russell's diligence and clear style. I myself am on my third copy of the book, having worn out the previous two reading, writing and teaching the wisdom contained within their pages.	2002-07-08
US	52906303	R1PGQLJWJMXX7U	0631214445	35419071	Abelard: A Medieval Life	Books	5	26	26	N	N	What Did Heloise Know and When Did She Tell Abelard?	M. T. Clanchy has written what will surely be regarded as the definitive biography of Abelard in years to come. Clanchy presents us with a portrait of a philosopher/theologian who made enemies with the same ease that he applied to the problems of God and man. Instead of a sterilt, academic look at the man's thought we are instead treated to a panorama of medieval politics and their impact upon both the man and his thought, which was responsible for getting Abelard in hot water on many an occasion, coming as he did under the jaundiced eye of the Inquisition. Along the way Abelard picks up his own personal Inquisitor in the person of St. Bernard, who finds himself at odds with Abelard's writings and Ableard's frequent public defense of his thought.<br />As if this weren't enough, what separates this work from the rest is its speculation on the role of Heloise in the thought of Abelard. The standard portrait of Heloise through they years has been one of a young woman was was taught, then seduced by her teacher, Peter Abelard. They married, the marriage was annuled by her family and Abelard paid the price by being castrated. Heloise escaped to a monastery where she became a nun and later superior. But history also tells us that Heloise was very respected for her sagacity and intelligence. Clanchy makes the obvious speculation that as their relationship as lovers grew over the years, so did their intellectual partnership. He points to several instances where the thought of Abelard undergoes changes after the relationship with Heloise was well underway. Given the times and the historical portrait of both lovers, this argument comnes across as a refreshing revision in the intellectual development of one of Europe's leading thinkers.<br />For those interested in the development of medieval philosophy and those interested in a good solid biography, this volume fills both needs without insulting its reader.	2002-06-02
US	52906303	R1YTQVA49X0HRZ	0300092784	79250507	Zarathustra's Secret	Books	4	25	30	N	Y	Was Nietzsche Gay?	At first sight, it would seem to the reader that Nietzsche's biographers have finally run out of things to say. We've had the French Nietzsche, the Positivist Nietzsche, The Existential Nietzsche, the Postmodern Nietzsche, ad nauseum. And now the Gay Nietzsche? But hild on here; not so fast. While I may not agree with many of Kohler's arguments, he has still managed to write one hell of an entertaining book without insulting my intelligence in the process.<br />When I first began reading this tome, I thought to myself that this may well be another of those works in which anyone in history who was anyone was, of course, gay. But then I remembered Siegfried Mandel's \\"Nietzsche and the Jews,\\" in which Mandel made many of the same assertations. Kohler, however, wants to pursue the issue of possible homosexuality as the centerpiece of his biography, instead of leaving in on the sidelines as Mandel does.<br />It is a difficult task, as Nietzsche was one of the most open philosophers in terms of private life, but one who had his life heavily edited by his manipulative sister after madess rendered him helpless. Anything that went against the ideal she had made for her brother was rewritten to have its meaning changed, or was simply discarded it to the dustbin. Because of this huge gap in out knowledge, Kohler can only rely on information rescued from the scrap-heap, and to this addes a great deal of speculation. Granted, some of it is learned speculation, and some of it appears dead on target, but it is speculation, nonetheless and must always be viewed with the proverbial grain of salt.<br />Ther author is also aided greatly in this effort by reference to the definitive three-volume biography of Nietzsche by Curt Paul Janz. Published in Munich in 1978, it appears never to have been translated into English and is, alas, now out-of-print in Germany. Much of Kohler's biographical information comes from this book, which helps explain why it blows away all English biographies in terms of depth. I have learned many more facts about Nietzsche's life from this book than I have from, say, the biography of Ronald Heyman, which itself adheres to the familiar paradigm about the life of Nietzsche.<br />Does Kohler prove his point? Sadly for him, no. Most of his evidence is purely circumstantial and some second-hand. But he gives the reader enough good information for many evenings of argument until those documents that will prove the argument one way of another are found. As that day is not very likely to come, at least not soon, the speculations in this book should serve to entertain and provide ammo for countless future arguments. And sometimes there is no greater intellectual fun to be had.in terms of depth. I have learned many more facts about Nietzsche's life from this book than I have from, say, the biography of Ronald Heyman, which itself adheres to the familiar paradigm about the life of Nietzsche.<br />Does Kohler prove his point? Sadly for him, no. Most of his evidence is purely circumstantial and some second-hand. But he gives the reader enough good information for many evenings of argument until those documents that will prove the argument one way of another are found. As that day is not very likely to come, at least not soon, the speculations in this book should serve to entertain and provide ammo for countless future arguments. And sometimes there is no greater intellectual fun to be had.	2002-05-30
US	52906303	R1GJ39OKR0U35K	0192853570	391413545	Ancient Philosophy: A Very Short Introduction	Books	1	31	42	N	N	Quite Useless	Every once in a great while comes a book that takes what can be a difficult subject matter and melts it into a coherent, readable whole that can be enjoyed by both student and intelligent reader alike, whether in the classroom or on the commuter train to work.<br />Unfortunately, this book is not one of them.<br />To be effective, a &quot;short introduction&quot; must not only be concise, but also reader friendly, keeping to the subject as close as possible in langauge terms designed to enlighten and entertain with an eye toward expanding the reader's interest in the subject covered.<br />Annas conveys none of the above, mainly because she hardly sticks to the subject matter at hand: philosophy. Instead we get a historical-political-sociological treatise that fails on every level to meet the expectations a reader has coming into the book.<br />Actually, when one applies common sense, this is too large a subject to fit into too small a format. For a couple of dollars more, there is an excellent title called &quot;Greek Philosophy&quot; by the same publisher. Also, for a few dollars more, are the works of popularizers Bryan Magee, Roger Scruton, and Robert Solomon, each of whom will give you way more than your money's worth. Try them; your wallet won't feel used and abused.	2002-05-19
US	52906303	R74471O4D5YRH	0393049515	62981090	The Dream of Reason: A History of Philosophy from the Greeks to the Renaissance	Books	1	34	50	N	N	Did Reason Dream At All During the Middle Ages?	Anthony Gottlieb has presented us with yet another introduction to philosophy. Let's see . . . how many does that make in the last two years? Ah, but Gottlieb's tome is no ordinary introduction, lest we think otherwise. The author boldly informs us in his introduction is that the one thing he learned writing this book on philosophy is that there is no such thing as philosophy. Come again? Upon further inspection we find that the author has mistaken the diversity in philosophical thinking as meaning that there is no such thing as philosophy. First things first, philosophy is not an ideology; it is not monolithic, though all philosophers begin with the same ground rules. Many dishes can be made from ham, does this mean there is no such thing as cooking, or ham? Secondly, the first thing one learns in studying the subject is that the word \\"philosophy\\" itself means \\"love of wisdom. One who loves wisdom will pursue it, and not everyone pursues their loved one in the same manner.<br />Gottlieb also notes that the branches of knowledge we now refer to as sociology, psychology, science, and mathematics were once bundled under the name \\"philosophy\\", and that this practice was prevalent during the Middle Ages. This sets up the real cheat in this book: out of its 469 pages, 375 were dedicated to Greek and Roman thought. This leaves 84 pages for the Middle Ages and Renaissance, but, wait a minute. Of the 84 available pages 38 pages are devoted to noes and the index, leaving a scant number to cover two major portions of both the subject at hand and the time periods. And yet the publisher dares to call this \\"a stunning successor to Bertrand Russell's 1945 classic, 'A History of Western Philosophy'.\\" At least Russell had the good taste, not to mention sense, to include a decent synopsis of both the Middle Ages and Renaissance and devoted more than the half page Gottlieb does to St. Thomas Aquinas.<br />As I have said in relation to other books, if you must have this, wait for the paperback.paperback.	2002-03-03
US	52906303	RBWOE0OS8PW3R	0415936608	925953571	Atomic Bomb Cinema: The Apocalyptic Imagination on Film	Books	3	8	11	N	N	Entwined in Its Own Verbiage	Jerome Shipiro has quite an idea. And, as an American living and teaching in Japan, he has a unique perspective. He has managed to write what is, for the most part, a credible book on the phenomenon of atom bomb cinema, tying it to the tradition of apocalyptic literature rather than the &quot;red scare&quot; category that other film critics have used to describe the genre.<br />His problems begin when he tries to categorize all a-bomb films in the apocalyptic category, in the process omitting those films which do not sport an obvious a-bomb connection, such as &quot;The Thing From Another World and The Trollenberg Terror.(Although both films sport radioactive monsters and are set in desolate areas.) Worst of all, while he rightly summarizes Gojira (Godzilla), he pays amazingly short shrift to director Honda's other, more closely linked film, The H-Men.<br />Other cases occur where the author defends a film he has chosen for his category against critics who see it in another category, usually as a &quot;red scare&quot; film. An excellent example is &quot;Them!&quot; Every point used by the author to prove it is not a red scare film can also be used to support the thesis that it is a red scare film. I would think Shapiro loses because he ignores the FBI-Air Force Intelligence connection around which the film revolves. It is a close argument and I give Shapiro kudos for an entertaining and illuminating chapter.<br />However, what does this book in at the end is its needlessly dense writing style, a style that makes each chapter seem as long as the book itself. Oh, the academic rag -- it's done in more good intentions than any other style of bad writing. Just imagine the fun if David Skal or Bill Warren had written this book. And there's the rub.<br />While this is no means a bad book for its price, it is a shame that many of its arguments are done in by its own language. I would recommend this for film fanatics only.	2002-01-16
US	52906303	R181CC74YJ2YHE	0415007437	33415797	Arthur Schopenhauer's English Schooling	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Ninety Days That Changed Philosophy	Remember the old adage, &quot;Don't judge a book by its cover?&quot; Well, in this case take that saying to heart, especially if you are a fan, reader, or otherwise interested in the philosophy of Arthur Schopenhauer.<br />At first glance it would seem this is a tome written by a scholar-squirrel sure to produce boredom to the 10th degree, especially when one takes into consideration the fact this book has almost 400 of these pages.<br />However, when I put these prejudices aside and delved into the bok itself I found a well-written and entertaining look at a crucial period in the young Schopenhauer's life. The question that occupies the author was the extent to which this experience changed Schopenhauer's view of England the the English. Schopenhauer was an Anglophile equally at home with the English language as he was with German. His philosophical writings show the English influence: they are easier to read and digest than those by German philosophers, which accounts for much of Schopenhauer's popularity with the intelligent public.<br />It was not, however, a happy stay for the young Schopenhauer at the Wimbledon School. Rather, it was a very traumatic experience attributed to the desire of Schopenhauer's mother, Johanna, to be rid of her son while she and Schopenhauer's father could enjoy their European vacation alone. Added to this was the fact that the headmaster at Wimbledon was a strict Anglican clergyman to whom the young Schopenhauer took an immediate dislike.<br />The author argues that the headmaster played a role in the formulation of Schopenhauer's later philosophy, which in itself was a refutation of Christianity (especially that practiced by his headmaster)written in English style containing many allusions to his three months at Wimbledon. It is a compelling argument and one that calls out for serious connsideration.<br />Also included in the book are letters to Schopenhauer at Wimbleton from friends, and, especially his mother, who takes her son's side in his ongoing argument with the headmaster. Last, but not least, is a series of letters from Schopenhauer to English publisher Francis Haywood offering to translate Kant's &quot;Critique of Pure Reason&quot; into English. Unfortunately for Schopenhauer, and the rest of us as well, he was turned down. How interesting might have been the course of philosophy in England and America if only Schopenhauer was taken up on his offer. Besides casting Kant in a new light, it may well have speeded up the discovery of Schopenhauer's own philosophy and changed the course of philosophy.side in his ongoing argument with the headmaster. Last, but not least, is a series of letters from Schopenhauer to English publisher Francis Haywood offering to translate Kant's &quot;Critique of Pure Reason&quot; into English. Unfortunately for Schopenhauer, and the rest of us as well, he was turned down. How interesting might have been the course of philosophy in England and America if only Schopenhauer was taken up on his offer. Besides casting Kant in a new light, it may well have speeded up the discovery of Schopenhauer's own philosophy and changed the course of philosophy.	2002-01-09
US	52906303	R2FA1VAB4IBK6D	0252070356	804837009	Nietzsche	Books	5	64	65	N	Y	An Important Addition to Nietzsche Studies	To scholars and admirers of Nietzsche, Lou Andreas-Salome has always been seen as his Irene Adler, the intellectual equal who got way or was driven away, depending on one's point of view. Although their affair lasted for only a few months, it left an indelible mark on both, for it came at a turning point in Nietzsche's life where he would leave the realtively safe nests of academia and the Wagners for a peripatetic life in the Eupopean Alps.<br />Over the years we have heard from almost everyone who was anyone in Nietzsche's life, except Lou Salome. This makes the published reprint of her 1894 even more important for those involved in Nietzsche studies. To say that Salome brings a unique perspective to her work is a bit of an understatement, but those who simply expect this to be memoir of the man she knew will be, I think, somewhat joyfully disappointed. Instead she has written what well may be the first attempt to view the persona behind the works. After giving us an excellent analysis of Nietzsche's philosophy, she comes to the conclusion that perhaps Nietzsche's madness was the inevitable result of his philosophy. Was this, as Nietzsche's sister said, merely a fantasy of female revenge? Then simply compare the last page of her book with the events of Nietzche's last days in Turin, events which she cannot have known. Hers is a provactive and illuminating look at Nietzsche, made more powerful by the fact that she was first to the gate and that the strength of her book is the analysis, not the memories.<br />As with any book on Nietzsche that comes to us in a foreign language, translation is most important if we are to have not only a working understanding, but also a deeper understanding than we would ordinarily expect. That the translator should be the late Siegfried Mandel is only to the reader's advantage. His translation is crisp and clear. His excellent introduction makes it all the more clear to me that this man is, or should be at least considered, one of the formost Nietzschean scholars of his time. (For further reference, see his excellent &quot;Nietzsche and the Jews.&quot;)<br />This is a book every serious student of Nietzsche should have in his or her library and a book that may contribute to a new vision of the tortured harbinger of the overman.he formost Nietzschean scholars of his time. (For further reference, see his excellent &quot;Nietzsche and the Jews.&quot;)<br />This is a book every serious student of Nietzsche should have in his or her library and a book that may contribute to a new vision of the tortured harbinger of the overman.	2002-01-08
US	52906303	R17OJWMHMJWNBK	0691070199	989067730	Heidegger's Children: Hannah Arendt, Karl Lowith, Hans Jonas, and Herbert Marcuse.	Books	5	44	60	N	Y	Insightful	Considering the current emphasis on Martin Heidegger and his thought during the last decade, it is more than a bit surprising this book wasn't written sooner. Besides being one of the most influential philosophers of the twentieth century, Heidegger was also a university professor, and quite a charismatic one at that. Living and teaching in Weimar Germany, it is not surprising, then, that many of his best students were Jews. And if we were to, say, pick a 'cream-of-the-crop' among those Jews, the names of Hannah Arendt, Karl Lowith, Hans Jonas and Herbert Marcuse would easily spring to mind.<br />It is interesting to note that none of the above were practising Jews; rather they saw themselves as assimilated and cosmopolitan in outlook. Ironically it would be their teacher, one of the greatest existentialist philosophers, who drove home to them the inauthenticity of their position when he dedicated himself to National Socialism. By abandoning them he turned his back on them and forced them to face their Jewishness, no longer as a metaphysical question, but in the harsh light of ontological reality, as an important component of their social being. Despite religious assimilation, they were still outcasts, only this time by basis of their racial identity - their very being.<br />Though abandoned by their mentor, each of Heidegger's students would go on to make a mark in the field of philosophy. In the chapters concerning their careers Wolin takes the time to carefully not their contribution to phliosophy and their attachments to their former teacher. Each discourse is concise and to the point, often giving the reader important insights into the relationship between student and teacher in ways not directly observable. With Arendt, this is easy due to the mass of scholarship, some excellent, some on the level of a supermarket tabloid. With a thinker such as Jonas, whose public career is not so well known, such insights are most welcome. I remember Jonas as a teacher and remember quite well his relationship with Heidegger. Although he would criticize his mentor in the strongest possible terms, when traveling to Europe he would still be careful to make the pilgrimage to the Black Forest to pay homage to the old man. Jonas made his mark both as an expert on Gnostic philosophy and as a philosopher of the environment, his works helping to build the basis of Germany's Green Party.<br />Lowith developed a love-hate relationship with his former teacher, becoming one of Heidegger's most insightful critics, and yet refusing to pull the trigger. One should not stop reading Heidegger; but one should refrain from reading him so naively. Perheps it was Heidegger's own latent, and naive, romanticism that led him from a critique of nihilism into the arms of totalitarian philosophy.<br />Marcuse is the strrangest case yet, if we view he and his teacher merely from the outside. It would appear Marcuse made the strongest reaction of all to his former teacher, by Msarcuse incorporated more of his teacher's thought into his own than any of the others. Compare Marcuse's &quot;One Dimensional Man&quot; with Heidegger's &quot;Letter on Technology.&quot; Marcuse's retreat into the pseudo-rationalism of Marx to escape the demons of nihilism strangely mirrors Heidegger's own retreat into National Socialism for the same reason. Taking Spengler at his word, Marcuse accepted the decline and retreated into a new world order of sorts while Heidegger fought Spengler's prognosis by adopting the standards of what he saw as the defence of civilization in the Swatstika.<br />Wolin wraps all this into 269 tightly constructed pages. Not a wasted word or thought. In other words, an excellent and entertaining introduction into a world of thought not usually considered. Highly recommended.emember quite well his relationship with Heidegger. Although he would criticize his mentor in the strongest possible terms, when traveling to Europe he would still be careful to make the pilgrimage to the Black Forest to pay homage to the old man. Jonas made his mark both as an expert on Gnostic philosophy and as a philosopher of the environment, his works helping to build the basis of Germany's Green Party.<br />Lowith developed a love-hate relationship with his former teacher, becoming one of Heidegger's most insightful critics, and yet refusing to pull the trigger. One should not stop reading Heidegger; but one should refrain from reading him so naively. Perheps it was Heidegger's own latent, and naive, romanticism that led him from a critique of nihilism into the arms of totalitarian philosophy.<br />Marcuse is the strrangest case yet, if we view he and his teacher merely from the outside. It would appear Marcuse made the strongest reaction of all to his former teacher, by Msarcuse incorporated more of his teacher's thought into his own than any of the others. Compare Marcuse's &quot;One Dimensional Man&quot; with Heidegger's &quot;Letter on Technology.&quot; Marcuse's retreat into the pseudo-rationalism of Marx to escape the demons of nihilism strangely mirrors Heidegger's own retreat into National Socialism for the same reason. Taking Spengler at his word, Marcuse accepted the decline and retreated into a new world order of sorts while Heidegger fought Spengler's prognosis by adopting the standards of what he saw as the defence of civilization in the Swatstika.<br />Wolin wraps all this into 269 tightly constructed pages. Not a wasted word or thought. In other words, an excellent and entertaining introduction into a world of thought not usually considered. Highly recommended.	2002-01-02
US	52906303	RO3TOADBYOZ8P	0393050084	494130651	Nietzsche: A Philosophical Biography	Books	5	51	55	N	Y	Another Solid Effort for Safranski	I would imagine that one of the toughest subjects for an author today would be Friedrich Nietzsche. Not so much in terms of difficulty, but in terms of previous output. There have been quite a few, to say the least, books on Nietzsche over the past few years. They seem to have left no stone unturned in their quest for material. There have appeared books on almost every aspect of Nietzsche's philosophy and life: Nietzsche as a young man, the later Nietzsche, Nietzsche and the Jews, Nietzsche's last days, Nietzsche and the Nazis, Nietzsche's influence on the French, English, the young, modern thought, what have you. There have even been biographies of Nietzsche's friends and family members. Where else is there left to go? It would seem that the vein of Nietzsche studies has been tapped dry.<br />Rudiger Safranski has managed to put an new and entertaining spin on things by giving the reader a philosophical biography of Nietzsche, focusing on the development of Nietzsche's ideas rather than his life. Rather than asking how Nietzsche's relationship with the Wagners affected his later life, Safranski asks how the relationship affected the development of Nietzsche's later ideas; which were developed, which were jettisoned and which would later emerge because of the realtionship.<br />Safranski's thesis is backed, as usual, with clear, concise writing free of the stifling style and jargon that has come to dominate Nietzschean studies. Safranski's style reminds one of Walter Kaufmann in the respect that he is writing for an intelligent public rather than fellow academics or students for whom this tome would be a required, and expensive textbook.<br />If you want a straightforward exposition of Nietzsche or just want to get to know this elusive philosopher better, you can't do better yourself than this book. Those more familiar with Nietzsche will not agree with everything Safranski writes, but that is part of the beauty of such as well-written book.<br />As someone involved in Nietzsche studies myself, I give this volume my highest recommendation for clarity and content.in Nietzsche studies myself, I give this volume my highest recommendation for clarity and content.	2001-12-11
US	52906303	R22RLRJIB0BXW9	1553660854	4963254	Tributes: Remembering Some of the World's Greatest Wrestlers	Books	4	9	10	N	Y	A Must For Every Wrestling Library	I don't think msny will disagree with me when I say that professional wrestling is the most exposed and yet least covered sport (or aspect of sports-entertainment for those who care). When a baseball, football or outstanding amateur athlete dies, his or her obit will be assured of a prominent place in at least the sports section of the newspaper or television. When a wrestler dies, we remain blissfully unaware unless the death is somewhat akin to the death of Chuckles the Clown on the old Mary Tyler Moore show (See Owen Hart). Even the wrestling promotions themselves made little or not mention of a wrestler's death, in some cases even when the grappler was currently working there.<br />Of course, it's not only death that counts. Ask yourself why Lou Thesz, Bruno Sammartino or even Kurt Angle haven't yet appeared on ESPN's \\"SportsCentury\\". Wrestlers are the equivilent of Rodney Dangerfield: they get no respect.<br />A good remedy for this neglect can be found in the writings of Dave Meltzer. In 1981 he founded \\"The Wrestling Observer,\\" a publication that comes as close to the definitive word on the game as one will find. And one of the strong points of the Observer is its obits. They cover every wrestler, whether superstar or starting out, providing the information necessary to fill in the lines of that person's life and doing the wrestling fan a serious favor in the process.<br />Now Meltzer has published a book of Tributes to those who made wrestling . . . well, wrestling. From the legendary Buddy Rogers to the tragic Rick Rude to the always hopeful Louis Spicoli, Meltzer covers 20 of these lives in his inimitable style. Owen Hart, Fritz Von Erich, Andre the Giant, even Yokozuna are there, larger than life, only with the blanks filled in. An absolute must-have for any wrestling fan.<br />It must also be noted that the book is a nicely bound hardcover, the pages sewn tight to last. Considering the author and at a price this is what in the consumer magazines consitiutes a \\"best buy.\\"tes a \\"best buy.\\"	2001-11-26
US	52906303	R1IALKMO7QZDR6	0312253583	966328618	Within Reason: A Life of Spinoza	Books	3	10	12	N	N	More of a Novel Than a Biography	Margaret Gullan-Whur is a victim of bad timing. A Spinoza scholar, she released her book around the same time as Steven Nadler's excellent biography of Spinoza. Spinoza poses large problems for any biographer, for the vast majority of his life was &quot;lived&quot; in the public sphere. Letters from friends and intimates were destroyed. Whereas Nadler presents a straightforward biography heavy on philosophical analysis, Gullan-Whur, by contrast, attempts a psycho-biography of Spinoza, attempting to fill in the gaps in his life with speculation concerning his philosophical works, particularly the &quot;Ethics.&quot; She tries to tie in the philosophical chapters, especially those on sexual desire, with speculation about Spinoza's life.<br />At times, when solid facts are there, her speculation is strong . . . but at other times, we are led down the road of fantasy, as in her specualtions on pp. 142-43 of a homosexual relationship between Spinoza and a Dutch student. And having made the speculation, she wonders what we are to think of it before wavering as to its veracity concerning Spinoza, citing a recent Dutch novel about Spinoza being homosexual. How can we be sure when she admits she isn't even sure. Who is the biographer here and who is the reader?<br />When dealing in the world of facts, Gullan-Whur is strong, evincing a strong, imaginative writing style. The first two chapters of her book are a joy to read. However, when dealing with the restrictions of biography, she comes off a distant second to Nadler. It would have been far better, given her fluid, imaginative writing style, to have penned a philosophical novel about the life of Spinoza. There she could have speculated to her heart's content.	2001-11-05
US	52906303	R2RPAGNQ2MB1E1	0802849288	918281508	Reasons for Our Rhymes: In Inquiry into the Philosophy of History	Books	4	2	3	N	Y	A Useful Introduction to a Sometimes Difficult Subject	Of the many branches of philosophy, perhaps the most interesting to specialists and laymen alike is the philosophy of history, a subject that has been recently come to the fore of the academic world as those who believe history is coming to an end are still grappling with those who feel history is far from over.<br />Unfortunately, most books on the subject would frighten away even the most fervent scholar. Rare is the academic these days who can write for the educated public.<br />Yet, there are good introductions to the topic and this is one of them. A strong point in Herrera's favor is that this book pretends to be no more than an introduction, and, combined with its brevity, makes for excellent reading.<br />Herrera mixes chapters on the giants of the subject, such as Augustine, Hegel and Marx, with lesser known, but nevertheless influential thinkers as Joachim of Fiore and Vladimir Soloviev. At the same time the author also traces the underlying theme of the philosophy of history from that of Providence through Progress to the current anti-threads of Postmodernism.<br />The only fault in the book is the exclusion of twentieth century existentialist thinkers Jose Ortega y Gasset and Raymond Aron. This ends up leaving a noticeable void because the road from Progress ro Postmodernism travels through the thought of Ortega and Aron.<br />Aside from this, however, the book is a rewarding intoduction to a most fascinating subject and well worth the time and money.	2001-10-30
US	52906303	R3KBX92NOW07J	0060393270	192185596	It's True! It's True!	Books	5	19	19	N	Y	Inspiring Story of a Real Life Hero	When Kurt Angle made his debut in the WWF he was portrayed as the character of a sports legend who thought the world owed him a living for his winning gold medals in the Olympics. The real Kurt Angle is nothing like that at all, as we see in this eye opening and inspiring autobiography. Over the course of the book we learn that Kurt did not have the perfect family (losing his father to a fatal accident when Kurt was 16) or even the perfect marriage. Nor, despite the glory he's reaped, has his athletic career been on a perfect note. But he's done well, and he chalks it up to one constant in his life: if you really want something, there is no substitute for hard work. Angle overcame both personal disappointments and serious injuries to dominate his sport of wrestling at the college level and the Olympic level through his mantra of dedication and hard work.<br />Angle is the first American amateur star to turn pro since 1980. Before, it was not unusual for amateur stars to take to the pro ring; such wrestling champions as Mike DiBiase, Dick Hutton, Danny Hodge, the Zebra Kid, Bob Backlund, and Jack Brisco came from the amateur mats. Angle's reasons in joining the WWF, his views of the difference between amateurs and pros and his adjustment to the pro game make for fascinating reading, especially in light of the fact that his signing has caused other amateur stars to take the possibility of a pro career seriously. (Such as NCAA champion Brock Lesnar, who should make his WWF debut shortly.)<br />But Angle's story is not only of interest to adults or wrestling fans. His message and the fact the book lacks the profanity that has become commonplace in these sort of tomes make it perfect reading for any teenager who has dreams of pursuing a career, athletic or otherwise. There is no substitute for hard work.	2001-10-17
US	52906303	R1WNT4GLPPI6PD	1573929069	304920660	Martin and Hannah: A Novel	Books	1	15	19	N	N	Unintentionally Hilarious	What did Hannah Arendt and Martin Heidegger ever do to end up as the subjects of a poorly written example of the Roughly-He-Grabbed-Me school of typing?<br />That thought kept coming to mind as I slogged my way through this turgid tome - 304 pages that only seem like 800.<br />Based, according to the author, on a passage from Elisabeth Young-Bruehl's excellent biography of Arendt, the book covers Arendt's last meeting with Heidegger in 1975 and her reconciliation with Heidegger's wife Elfriede. Any resemblance with Young-Bruehl ends there as Clement remakes the Arendt-Heidegger love affair into something out of a soft-core romantic paperback. It still wouldn't be so bad if the writing didn't seem like a parody of a romantic paperback. Consider these passages:<br />&quot;For it was obvious: Hannah loved Martin, as only Jewesses know how to love, with an ardor and determination . . . there were really no words to describe it.&quot;<br />Evidently.<br />&quot;Hannah had a flash of fantasy: He was going to die right here, right now, and she would shout in Elfriede's face how Martin had enjoyed Hannah's body. Hannah shuddering under Martin's hand. Martin atop Hannah, his penetration, his pleasure. And hers, such as no other man had given her.&quot;<br />Wow. The thought of Hannah Arendt and Martin Heidegger making love is hard enough to even want to imagine. In the hands of a practitioner like Clement, however, it manages to reach the Olympic heights of sheer nausea.<br />If all that weren't enough, add a goodly amount of pop discussions of Heidegger's philosophy and you have a piece of writing awful enough to give Ed Wood, Jr. a real run for his money.<br />I have an idea of how the publisher can make money on the paperback edition: On the cover, have Fabio, as Martin Heidegger, ripping the bodice of a well-endowed comely dark haired Hannah Arendt, with the tag line, &quot;Their love was anything but Platonic.&quot; Failing that, there's always the movie version. If it's to be true to the book, Jim Carrey should play Heidegger and Julie Kavner as Hannah Arendt with the vocal intonations of Marge Simpson. Altogether fitting in its own weird way.'s to be true to the book, Jim Carrey should play Heidegger and Julie Kavner as Hannah Arendt with the vocal intonations of Marge Simpson. Altogether fitting in its own weird way.	2001-10-12
US	52906303	R15RBWZSFHBF3M	0674576403	264970886	The Ministry of Illusion: Nazi Cinema and Its Afterlife	Books	5	34	36	N	N	Surprising Look at the Nazi Film Industry	When one thinks of the Third Reich and its movies, the first thing that comes to mind is &quot;Triumph of the Will,&quot; or &quot;Olympia,&quot; both by Leni Riefenstahl and usually the only cinematic examples from the Third Reich shown on television.<br />It might surprise many to note that the vast majority of the over 1,000 films produced in the Third Reich contained no overt propaganda whatsoever. It might also surprise many to read that the Third Reich also produced musicals and even screwball comedies.<br />This is just one of the little known facts presented in this extremely important and entertaining book. The Nazis never had to invent a cinema from the ground up; the Germany they inherited had perhaps the most sophisticated film industry this side of Hollywood. Add the fact that the Nazi hierarchy were film fanatics and it is somewhat easier to see why the cinema of the Third Reich developed as it did.<br />Eric Rentschler points out that instead of overt propaganda, Joseph Goebbles preferred as subliminal message instead. Too many preachy films would turn off the audience; instead, if films were enrobed in traditional German values, the message is all the easier not only to get across, but to gain acceptance. The most frightening aspect of &quot;Jew Suss&quot; (the most notorious Anti-Semitic film ever made)is how the message is presented so matter-of-factly. No over the top drama, but an effective use of melodramatic elements to get the point across.<br />An added bonus for film researchers is a listing of films released by year and a filmography of the more noted directors. Essential for those interested in film or the social hisotry of Nazi Germany.	2001-08-10
US	52906303	R1Z36PKN9L6I7I	0156720353	67570135	Plato and Augustine: From The Great Philosophers, Volume I	Books	5	15	16	N	N	The Best Introduction Yet to Plato and Augustine	Karl Jaspers was one of the most influential philosophers of the 20th century. What is less known is that he was one of the best teachers of the subject. (If you doubt me, just read his letters to Hannah Arendt.) This book was taken from two chapters of his seminal &quot;The Great Philosophers.&quot; Jaspers has the unique ability to melt down the sometimes difficult thought of these to giants of philosophy into an easy to understand narrative covering the essence of their thought. Jaspers knows how to use an economy of words as not to confuse or bore the reader, unlike many other academic introductions, which ramble on and on.<br />As I said earlier in my review of Jaspers's introduction to Kant, only a great mind such as Jaspers could condense and present other great minds in such a way as not only to make them easily understood, but to also hook the reader on the intellectual joys of philosophy, and by extension, thinking.<br />Hey, the book is cheap, it's short, it will be hard to put down once you begin reading,and you will find yourself referring to it many times in the future. The best buy for your money.	2001-07-29
US	52906303	R19DJNJXZXJE90	1893554090	643613111	The Long March: How the Cultural Revolution of the 1960s Changed America	Books	3	25	33	N	N	Addresses the Symptoms, Not the Cause	Roger Kimball has written a very entertaining book tracing the roots of our current cultural malaise from the faux posturings of the Beats, Susan Sontag and Charles Reich, among others, to the present day, where radical thought and politics have become the norm, not only at our universities, museums, and other centers of higher learning, but also in our culture, morays, and seemingly every part of our everyday life.<br />Kimball is correct in his assessment of the situation.  All one need do is to but look around to see the climatic change the 60s has wrought in our culture. Feeling has replaced thought; hedonism has replaced the sense of duty a citizen felt to his or her country or community; tribalism has replaced the sense of unity, as reflected in the current multicultural craze; and the concept of Original Sin has given way to the notion of inner perfectibility.<br />Of course, as Kimball notes, it didn't just come about because of the radicalism of the 60s; no, the 60s were merely the catalyst for a change that had been building up since the end of World War II. He compares it with the Rousseauian fervor that tore France apart in 1789, and there is some solid justification here, as both Robespierre,the Beats and Sontag alike are children of the Enlightenment, for it was the Enlightenment that stressed the role of reason over that of faith in determining the course of humankind. In other words, man was perfectible, if he would only use his reason. The last World War shook our faith in reason and saw its replacement with a self-fulfilling postmodern philosophy of perfection through feeling. Marxist thought filtered through Freud, with a solid mixture of mysticism, both East and West, thrown into the mix. The Counter-Culture, far from being the antipode to Western culture, instead was absorbed into Western culture, changing it in the process.<br />But while Kimball gives many fine examples of the intellectual silliness that has engulfed us, including an excellent exposition on the influence of Norman O. Brown (who was way more influential on people I knew than either Sontag or Marcuse, who were too obtuse), he falls woefully short on the &quot;whys&quot; of the matter. How could a philosophy, spawned by people so outside the mainstream, not only triumph, but become the dominant mose of thinking? Can we simply blame it on the anti-Vietnam 60s radicals permeating society? Or is there something else, without which the radicals would come to a complete halt? Why would a culture permit the musical stylings of the last thirty years to set the musical standard? The same for television and movies asx well.<br />The answer is quite simple and can be found in the amorality that is capitalism. If these stylings were not profitable, they would not exist, while legitimate voices are drowned out as being of little or no commercial potential. The roots of the Counter-Culture can be found in the product of Madison Avenue in the late 50s and early 60s. It is no accident that Allen Ginsburg toiled for Madison Ave. or that Jerry Rubin turned to Wall Street. The Hippie and the Establishmentarian are closer than we think. Witness Bill Clinton. It is the paradox that stops Kimball from reaching the conclusion he is leading us to.exposition on the influence of Norman O. Brown (who was way more influential on people I knew than either Sontag or Marcuse, who were too obtuse), he falls woefully short on the &quot;whys&quot; of the matter. How could a philosophy, spawned by people so outside the mainstream, not only triumph, but become the dominant mose of thinking? Can we simply blame it on the anti-Vietnam 60s radicals permeating society? Or is there something else, without which the radicals would come to a complete halt? Why would a culture permit the musical stylings of the last thirty years to set the musical standard? The same for television and movies asx well. <br />The answer is quite simple and can be found in the amorality that is capitalism. If these stylings were not profitable, they would not exist, while legitimate voices are drowned out as being of little or no commercial potential. The roots of the Counter-Culture can be found in the product of Madison Avenue in the late 50s and early 60s. It is no accident that Allen Ginsburg toiled for Madison Ave. or that Jerry Rubin turned to Wall Street. The Hippie and the Establishmentarian are closer than we think. Witness Bill Clinton. It is the paradox that stops Kimball from reaching the conclusion he is leading us to.	2001-07-27
US	52906303	RWAWY2L5X616I	0874519098	251347185	Reflections in Bullough’s Pond: Economy and Ecosystem in New England (Revisiting New England)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	New England As Seen Through Bullough's Pond	Diana Muir has written a thoughtful and well-researched book about the history of the eco-systems of New England through the lens of her life and experiences at Bullough's Pond. Lest the reader suppose that this book is related in some way to a famous predecessor also written from the viewpoint of a life by a pond, let me allay those prejudgments right here and now. Walden was a philosophical tract while Diana Muir has penned a rather enjoyable history of the ecology of New England and how it was changed (not necessarily for the better) by each wave of human settlers.<br />She finds the habitat fragile from the start, due to the climate and location. Each wave of human settlers has changed the environment. As the population of the first settlers, American Indians grew past what the land was able to sustain, deforestation and agriculture began as maize and beans became important sources of food. Fishing was also a way of life, particularly oyster harvesting. When settlers arrived from Europe they found land friendly to agriculture, but over-farming and poor land management doomed the thin topsoil. Fishing would later join agriculture on New England's endangered list; even the oyster was soon gone, a victim of overfishing.<br />But Ms. Muir's story is also one of pure Yankee inventiveness. Industry soon took the major role and, helped by waves of immigration from Europe, made New England a major player in America's economy, providing the manufactured goods needed by the North to win the Civil War. And it was New England's ecology that supplied the backbone for the industrial revolution through the use of water power. The price New England paid for that was the polllution of these very power sources, making them unfit for drinking, or life.<br />As the rest of America caught up with New England, new technologies emerged to give her a new foothold in America's economy, but the ecological problems remained the same. Her solutions, as seen from her foothold in Bullough's Pond, are not new, but are based in thoughtful reflection, unlike some other solutions I have seen, and bear reflection.<br />Except for the chapter on the waterways, where she descends into a jeremiad, stating the all-too-obvious, this is a restrained book that lets the facts speak for themselves. Especially delightful, and to the point, is her description of the dredging of the pond by the county due in large part to Winter run-offs. One note of warning: the writing style is such that once you pick it up, you'll find it hard to put down.Pond, are not new, but are based in thoughtful reflection, unlike some other solutions I have seen, and bear reflection.<br />Except for the chapter on the waterways, where she descends into a jeremiad, stating the all-too-obvious, this is a restrained book that lets the facts speak for themselves. Especially delightful, and to the point, is her description of the dredging of the pond by the county due in large part to Winter run-offs. One note of warning: the writing style is such that once you pick it up, you'll find it hard to put down.	2001-07-18
US	52906303	R1IY7SJK9JI68W	0871137771	362960513	Self-Help Nation: The Long Overdue, Entirely Justified, Delightfully Hostile Guide to the Snake-Oil Peddlers Who Are Sapping Our Nation's Soul	Books	2	4	6	N	N	Painfully Disappointing	The self-help phenomenon seems to be everywhere: in bookstores, on the radio and television, on audio tapes for our Walkman, the variety and number of these tomes and programs seem endless. And it seems to be a modern phenomena, or is it?<br />It may surprise a lot of people, Tom Tiede included, that self-help books have been around almost since the printing press was invented. And though it seems as if there is a neverending proliferation of these self-help tomes these days, the twenties and thirties had more than their share -- the most famous self-help book of all, How To Win Friends and Influence People, was written in the thirties. And its spinoff, the Dale Carnegie Institute, still thrives today.<br />Despite the Oprahization of America, self-help tomes really haven't changed all that much. How could they? The subject is always intrinically the same. No, it's just the angles that have changed, especially with the coming of quantum physics. Many snake oil salesmen have made careers misinterpreting quantum physics through the medium of the self-help tome.<br />So, given all that's out there these days on television and radio and in the bookstore, an examination of this racket is long overdue. Unfortunately, Tom Tiede is not the person to perform such an examination. Despite a few good examples and hits on the mark (Who could miss such an inviting target as Deepak Chopra?), Tiede falls short both in organization and the necessary ingredient of humor. Where a P. J. O'Rourke comes off with a good dose of sarcastic disbelief, Tiede comes off with more than a touch of bitterness toward his subjects, as if they really are to be taken with the utmost seriousness.<br />This is what ultimately does the book in. There are too many screeds and not enough satire. It's like reading the Skeptical Inquirer. Where is the laughter? If you really want to read this book, then I suggest you local library, and if you simply must buy a copy (and I know many of you are scannig these reviews looking for justification), then wait until it comes out in paperback, where your financial expense won't be as great, although you will have to accept less when you put sell it to the used book vendor.eviews looking for justification), then wait until it comes out in paperback, where your financial expense won't be as great, although you will have to accept less when you put sell it to the used book vendor.	2001-07-15
US	52906303	R2BWT4P5X0VEHT	156858153X	273667388	1927: High Tide of the 1920s	Books	4	6	6	N	N	That Wonderful Year . . .	Amid the nostalgia and mystery that passes for rememberance of the Twenties, Gerald Leinwand makes a solid contribution by focusing on what he sees as the key year of the decade: 1927. And after reading his excellent book, it's hard to disagree.<br />The popular view of the decade is a melange of flappers, gangsters, federal agents, flaming youth and athletic heroes, all set to a jazz beat. The Jazz era peaked in 1927: the stock market was hotter than ever, minting new millionaires almost daily; the wealth of America was as large as Europe combined; furniture and electric appliances sold more than ever thanks to the enormous popularity of the installment plan. Most households had a radio and over half owned an automobile. Movies began to talk and drew record crowds. The Yankees dominated baseball, with Babe Ruth smacking an unheard of 60 home runs. Tennis, golf, and even polo enjoyed a boom in popularity. 270 shows opened that year of Broadway, a record that still stands. English language daily newspapers enjoyed a circulation of 38 million, thanks in large part to the development of the tabloid. The tabloid publicized the more lurid aspects of the day's news, providing a fitting companion to the two most popular magazines of the day, &quot;True Stories&quot; and &quot;Confessions.&quot; Thanks to the force of the media, celebrity was celebrated like never before. The world thrilled to the exploits of &quot;Lucky Lindy&quot; and his spirit of St. Louis. Jack Dempsey dominated boxing, until Gene Tunney took the heavyweight championship away from him that year. John Gilbert and Greta Garbo ruled the silver screen. And gangster Al Capone was practically a household word.<br />Women had the right to vote; they wore their skirts short, bobbed their hair like movie idol Clara Bow, and smoked and drank bootleg whiskey in public. More American than ever were getting high school degrees and moving on to college. African Americans, after enduring decades of Jim Crow, seemed finally to be making progress, as witnessed by the Harlem Renaissance.<br />But on closer inspection, a dark side emerged that would culminate in the Great Depression a little under two years later. (Hindsight is always 20/20.) Calvin Coolidge shook public confidence when he announced he would not seek another term. The income gap between rich and poor grew; many rural residents abandoned their farms to head to the cities and the promise of jobs. More and more money was being spent on education, yet teachers were drastically underpaid. In rural areas, some teachers barely had an elementary school degree. Lynching was still widespread, especially in the South, and the neo-apartheid policy of &quot;separate but equal&quot; still held the country in a tight grip when it came to race relations. Religious intolerance was the rule with an undeclared war against science, competing for the minds in America's schools. And America was caught up in a rather nasty jungle war against Sandino rebels in Nicaragua.<br />If this all sounds somewhat familiar, it is probably no accident. Leinwand's insights keep the reader interested and his judicious use of them help the book to flow like a well-tuned novel. Add a lively writing style and we have a perfect book for the days of Summer.<br />One added bonus is a chapter listing preductions of the future made in 1927 by such notables as H.G.Wells, Aldous Huxley, Hermann Keyserling, and even H.L. Mencken. Of course, they were all wrong, and it's a lot of fun to see Leinwand point out their errors.  Highly recommended.inally to be making progress, as witnessed by the Harlem Renaissance.<br />But on closer inspection, a dark side emerged that would culminate in the Great Depression a little under two years later. (Hindsight is always 20/20.) Calvin Coolidge shook public confidence when he announced he would not seek another term. The income gap between rich and poor grew; many rural residents abandoned their farms to head to the cities and the promise of jobs. More and more money was being spent on education, yet teachers were drastically underpaid. In rural areas, some teachers barely had an elementary school degree. Lynching was still widespread, especially in the South, and the neo-apartheid policy of &quot;separate but equal&quot; still held the country in a tight grip when it came to race relations. Religious intolerance was the rule with an undeclared war against science, competing for the minds in America's schools. And America was caught up in a rather nasty jungle war against Sandino rebels in Nicaragua.<br />If this all sounds somewhat familiar, it is probably no accident. Leinwand's insights keep the reader interested and his judicious use of them help the book to flow like a well-tuned novel. Add a lively writing style and we have a perfect book for the days of Summer.<br />One added bonus is a chapter listing preductions of the future made in 1927 by such notables as H.G.Wells, Aldous Huxley, Hermann Keyserling, and even H.L. Mencken. Of course, they were all wrong, and it's a lot of fun to see Leinwand point out their errors.  Highly recommended.	2001-07-13
US	52906303	RJR4YPPS4HDX8	0802116736	189214091	A. J. Ayer: A Life	Books	4	3	4	N	N	A Biography Superior To Its Subject	&quot;I warned you,&quot; Anthony Blanche said to Charles Ryder in Evelyn Waugh's Brideshead Revisited. &quot;I took you out to dinner to warn you of charm. . . Charm is the great English blight. It does not exist outside these damp islands. It spots and kills anything it touches. It kills love; it kills art; I greatly fear, my dear Charles, it has killed you.&quot;<br />Anthony Blanche could have just as well been speaking of A.J. &quot;Freddie&quot; Ayer, for he was to philosophy what Waugh's Charles Ryder was to art: a celebrity more noted for being such rather than for his work, which is found to come up short. Overshadowed in philosophy by Wittgenstein and in both philosophy and celebrity by Russell (who had a unique talent of reinventing himself so as to appear new to each generation), Ayer is mainly known for one work, Language, Truth and Logic, a depressing tome that relegates anything that is not empirically verifiable or true in virtue of linguistic rules as meaningless. Questions of God and metaphysics are lumped in this category.<br />Despite being overshadowed by Russell and Wittgenstein, Ayer may have had the last laugh, for his influence on philosophy far surpassed theirs. As Rogers notes, Ayer wanted to put an end to philosophy. For Ayer, the only role for philosophy is the logical clarification of the concepts of science, rather than the quest for truth and ultimate reality.<br />With that stroke of the pen, Ayer succeeded to dealing philosophy a near mortal wound from only which she is now recovering. Ayer took philosophy from the general reader and rarefied it to the world of specialization and academia. Where once philosophers as Hegel, Schopenhauer, McTaggart, Bergson and Russell wrote for an educated public, today philosophers write for other philosophers. Instead of a search for ultimate truths, philosophy has become a series of problems made sterile in the world of academia.<br />But how could the iconoclastic Ayer accomplish this? The answer is simple: charm. Rogers astutely chronicles Ayer's smooth relationship and movement through the upper classes so often found in the environment of the English university. Ayer grasped quite quickly that if one can't out-think one's opponent, it is just as well to out-entertain him. And for that task Ayer was well suited. He became a sort of celebrity on the BBC, always playing the iconoclastic philosopher, whether debating Frederick Copleston on the existence of God for BBC radio or discussing the nature of knowledge for a televised lecture series. Learning from Russell's mistakes, Ayer eschewed the leftist radicalism that defined the later Russell in favor of a trendy leftist posture that guaranteed entree to the moneyed classes that dominated England and America.<br />Bur the real delight in Rogers's book comes when he describes not A.J. Ayer, thinker, but &quot;Freddie&quot; Ayer, hedonist, filling in what Freddie does not tell us in two volumes of autobiography. Unilke Alfred Jules, the Thinker, Freddie the Fop thought with a different organ, judging from his marriages and numerous affairs, sometimes seeing two or more women at the same time. There is a strange hilarity is seeing one of England's foremost practitioners of rationality being such a slave to his libido when not on duty. And Rogers does a first-rate job interlocking the two into a seamless whole, knowing when to switch gears and keep the reader's interest on the page.<br />The funniest passage in the book is the confrontation between Ayer and one Mike Tyson (yes, that Mike Tyson) who shanghaied a young Naomi Campbell into a spare bedroom during the course of a posh party with something other than debate on his mind. How does it turn out? I leave it to you to find out the power and limits of charm.is simple: charm. Rogers astutely chronicles Ayer's smooth relationship and movement through the upper classes so often found in the environment of the English university. Ayer grasped quite quickly that if one can't out-think one's opponent, it is just as well to out-entertain him. And for that task Ayer was well suited. He became a sort of celebrity on the BBC, always playing the iconoclastic philosopher, whether debating Frederick Copleston on the existence of God for BBC radio or discussing the nature of knowledge for a televised lecture series. Learning from Russell's mistakes, Ayer eschewed the leftist radicalism that defined the later Russell in favor of a trendy leftist posture that guaranteed entree to the moneyed classes that dominated England and America.<br />Bur the real delight in Rogers's book comes when he describes not A.J. Ayer, thinker, but &quot;Freddie&quot; Ayer, hedonist, filling in what Freddie does not tell us in two volumes of autobiography. Unilke Alfred Jules, the Thinker, Freddie the Fop thought with a different organ, judging from his marriages and numerous affairs, sometimes seeing two or more women at the same time. There is a strange hilarity is seeing one of England's foremost practitioners of rationality being such a slave to his libido when not on duty. And Rogers does a first-rate job interlocking the two into a seamless whole, knowing when to switch gears and keep the reader's interest on the page.<br />The funniest passage in the book is the confrontation between Ayer and one Mike Tyson (yes, that Mike Tyson) who shanghaied a young Naomi Campbell into a spare bedroom during the course of a posh party with something other than debate on his mind. How does it turn out? I leave it to you to find out the power and limits of charm.	2001-07-12
US	52906303	R35HGKXXK5X24J	0300087004	382088109	Humanity: A Moral History of the Twentieth Century	Books	4	16	16	N	N	An Examination of Man's Inhumanity to Man	Jonathan Glover has written an interesting and lively chronicle of the twentieth century using the prism of morality as his filter. Noting that the last 100 years were the most brutal in human history, Glover seeks the reasons why this became the case. In Europe at rhe start of the century, most people accepted the authority of morality. What happened to undermine that authority? Glover states that barbarism is not unique to the twentieth century: atrocities have always been with us throughout recorded time. Technology has made a difference; hyped as the answer for a better life, technology has also made it easier for programs such as genocide and biocide, not to mention the total destruction of humanity via nuclear weapons. Never before has the fate of so many been in the hands of so few.<br />Perhaps it has been that the view of human psychology developed during the Enlightenment has stagnated, failng to adjust to new developments and the outgrowths of those developments in the industrialized world. Glover tellingly quotes John Maynard Keynes's criticism of Bertrand Russell's comments about life and affairs as &quot;brittle&quot; because there was &quot;no solid diagnosis of human nature underlying them.&quot;<br />But Glover errs by leading his book with a look at Nietzsche as a harbinger of the new type of thinking, concentrating on Nietzsche's values of &quot;cruelty,&quot; which the philosopher had associated with the overman, the man who overcomes himself, creating new values in the process. Nietsche did not endorse his values of the ubermensch as values for the mass of humanity. The Nazis attempted to adopt Nietzsche as a philosophical cornerstone, but it is evident from their writings, especially those of Alfred Baumler (quoted by Glover), that they did not  understand exactly what their chosen philosopher was really saying. Glover would have been much better off in this study by leading off with a study of Nietzsche's study of resentment. The twentieth century marked the triumph of resentment over rationality, taking the technology developed through and by a brittle rational world-view and using it not for the enhancement of human life, but rather the destruction of life.<br />Glover also misses another opportunity when he fails to note that the bloody reigns of Stalin and Mao are in a very large sense based on the Enlightenment view of human psychology that mankind was perfectible. Those not in step with the new order were deemed expendable, Glover quotes a chilling statement Stalin made while issuing arrest warrants, &quot;Who's going to remember all this riff-raff in ten or twenty years' time? No one.&quot;<br />Most of Glover's analysis is spent with Hitler, and from the viewpoint of twentieth century history we can understand why. Much more is known about Hitler and his regime than those of Stalin and Mao, of whom new revelations are made with every passing year. In covering the excesses of all three dictators, Glover remains on target with an analysis that keeps the reader turning the pages.<br />Other strong points include chapters on Hiroshima, Rwanda, the Gulf War, and the refusal of Italians to help their allies, the Nazis exterminate Jews in Croatia, serving as a beacon of hope and rationality in a deadly irrational darkness.<br />Well worth your time and money, especially that it is now in paperback, and thus easier to read on the train or bus. The book will make you think and is the perfect tome to read on the way to and from work.entury marked the triumph of resentment over rationality, taking the technology developed through and by a brittle rational world-view and using it not for the enhancement of human life, but rather the destruction of life.<br />Glover also misses another opportunity when he fails to note that the bloody reigns of Stalin and Mao are in a very large sense based on the Enlightenment view of human psychology that mankind was perfectible. Those not in step with the new order were deemed expendable, Glover quotes a chilling statement Stalin made while issuing arrest warrants, &quot;Who's going to remember all this riff-raff in ten or twenty years' time? No one.&quot;<br />Most of Glover's analysis is spent with Hitler, and from the viewpoint of twentieth century history we can understand why. Much more is known about Hitler and his regime than those of Stalin and Mao, of whom new revelations are made with every passing year. In covering the excesses of all three dictators, Glover remains on target with an analysis that keeps the reader turning the pages.<br />Other strong points include chapters on Hiroshima, Rwanda, the Gulf War, and the refusal of Italians to help their allies, the Nazis exterminate Jews in Croatia, serving as a beacon of hope and rationality in a deadly irrational darkness.<br />Well worth your time and money, especially that it is now in paperback, and thus easier to read on the train or bus. The book will make you think and is the perfect tome to read on the way to and from work.	2001-07-11
US	52906303	R3ERIV400QVDXG	0385501544	415654220	The Last Empire: Essays 1992-2000	Books	5	18	18	N	Y	Vidal  In The Gloaming	It seems perfectly fitting that Gore Vidal should become our leading man of letters here in fin de siecle America. Through his novels he has become our de facto historian, and through his essays he has emerged as a wry observer of American life and letters, although a sort of disembodied one, as he spends most of his time at his home in Italy.<br />As he enters what is certainly the last fertile period of his life, we ask ourselves if The Last Empire will indeed be Vidal's last collection, or last memorable collection, of essays. If this should indeed be the case, Vidal has gone out a winner.<br />Vidal's strong point as an essayist is not to lecture the reader, but rather to take the reader into his confidence, almost as if he was at his home in Ravello having a conversation. Whether he is discoursing on Claire Bothe Luce, Mark Twain, or the latest history of the Kennedy years, Vidal brings a lot of himself and his personal experiences to the page and opens up new vistas even to his most educated readers. The beauty of Vidal is no matter how much the reader brings to his essays, he or she will always leave with something, whether a previously unknown fact or a lead for further reading.<br />One of the best essays in the book is &quot;Twain on the Grand Tour,&quot; during the course of which Vidal takes apart an academic's book of psycho-babble on Twain. There is nothing Vidal dislikes more than academics who make their subjects fit whatever theory-of-the-day is popular, and by doing so, perform a disservice both to their subject and the reader. As a further bonus for us readers, the hapless fool Vidal criticized didn't know when he was beaten, and sent a reply. Vidal's riposte is a classic, hoisting the fool on his own petard and damning him with his own words. It's like watching an osprey catching fish in the water.<br />One caveat, though. Vidal becomes glaringly inconsistent during the course of his political essays when he insists on issuing a free pass to the Clintons. It is apparent while reading the essays that he has succumbed to what passes for charm in the former First Family, Hillary especially. For him, she seems to represent some combination of the best of Eleanor Roosevelt and Jackie Kennedy. Though he says time and time again that it is impossible to be elected ruler of these United States unless one is part and parcel of the military-industrial complex, these rules seem to fly out the window when discussing the Clintons as brave reformers in the face of ignoble Republican opposition. In reality, Bill Clinton has proven to be no more than the poor man's Huey Long, while his wife is resentful and duplicitous. Were this America of the forties, Joan Crawford could have easily essayed her in one of the Warner potboilers of the day. It gets so even wooden Al Gore, of whon Vidal has said many unflattering things in the past, is given that ticket to ride. Vidal's strength is as a critic; his weakness is as a supporter.<br />Nevertheless, even flawed Vidal is far. far better than what passes for literary criticism in today's America. One should always keep this in mind when contemplating this book's purchase.Clintons. It is apparent while reading the essays that he has succumbed to what passes for charm in the former First Family, Hillary especially. For him, she seems to represent some combination of the best of Eleanor Roosevelt and Jackie Kennedy. Though he says time and time again that it is impossible to be elected ruler of these United States unless one is part and parcel of the military-industrial complex, these rules seem to fly out the window when discussing the Clintons as brave reformers in the face of ignoble Republican opposition. In reality, Bill Clinton has proven to be no more than the poor man's Huey Long, while his wife is resentful and duplicitous. Were this America of the forties, Joan Crawford could have easily essayed her in one of the Warner potboilers of the day. It gets so even wooden Al Gore, of whon Vidal has said many unflattering things in the past, is given that ticket to ride. Vidal's strength is as a critic; his weakness is as a supporter.<br />Nevertheless, even flawed Vidal is far. far better than what passes for literary criticism in today's America. One should always keep this in mind when contemplating this book's purchase.	2001-07-01
US	52906303	RUB68BIZ8M4ZJ	0060393297	115507970	If They Only Knew	Books	5	21	26	N	N	Behind Every Chyna There is a Joan Laurer	The third in a string of WWF star biographies (Mick Foley, the Rock), and easily the best of the bunch. Chyna comes across with a mixture of honesty, bravado and vulnerability that keeps the reader glued to the page. She was born into a family that can best be described as putting the &quot;fun&quot; in dysfunctional. Her father was an alcoholic con man and her mother was cold fish whose idea of punishment verged on the sadistic. At the age of 15, after suffering her mother and a series of stepfathers, she would leave to move in with her stepfather, now a recovered alcoholic, but no less of a con man. (He would later get student loans in her name without her knowledge and leave her to pay the bills upon graduation.)<br />A graduate of the University of Tampa, fluent in Spanish, Joan Laurer bounced around from job to job before hitting upon the idea of entering Killer Kowalski's wrestling school. Her memories of both Kowalski and his training institute are both hilarious and, as one who knows Kowalski, right on the point. After finishing her training she works the independent circuit until a chance meeting with Hunter Hearst Helmsley (Paul Levesque, who later became her boyfriend)and Shawn Michaels. (One of the best parts of the book comes upon meeting Hunter and discovering they were both trained by Kowalski.) Helmsley and Michaels envisioned a role for her and convinced Vince McMahon to take her on. Needless to say, it was one of the best moves he made.<br />I haven't really spilled anything because the strong point of this book is not the chronology of her life, but the way she handled adversity and being different. Attempting to come across completely as the swaggering, tough Chyna, she glosses over her academic achievements and her stint in the Peace Corps. But the chinks in her armor reveal her sensitivity, and oversensitivity, and make this one of the more compelling sports biographies published in the last couple of years. I thought it most interesting point that Joan Laurer can only consider herself feminine in the guise of Chyna. &quot;I was meant to be someone else,&quot; she says. Perhaps it is true, then, that our capacity for happiness lies in a delicate balance between what chilhood has allowed us and what it had denied us.that Joan Laurer can only consider herself feminine in the guise of Chyna. &quot;I was meant to be someone else,&quot; she says. Perhaps it is true, then, that our capacity for happiness lies in a delicate balance between what chilhood has allowed us and what it had denied us.	2001-02-02
US	52906303	R1IH7P518FF2B	074320008X	725522864	Circles : Fifty Roundtrips Through History, Technology, Science, Culture...	Books	5	29	30	N	N	The Delights of Reading James Burke	James Burke strikes again. The author of such compelling books as Connections, The Day the Universe Changed, the Pinball Effect and the Knowledge Web has come up with yet another catchy title to describe his latest effort. And on no level does he disappoint here, using the metaphor of a circle to begin his journey, describe the improvements and sidebars during the trip, and take us back to almost right where we began.<br />Tne book is also full of the sort of hooks and traps we have grown to enjoy in his writing over the years. Consider this passage at the beginning of one chapter: &quot;Thanks to mass production and distribution, I can go back to the shop and get a free replacement copy for a cup that I found a flaw in last week. It weas one of those willow-pattern things. Genuine Wedgwood. An ironic term, really, because Wedgwood's original stuff was fake.&quot; Just when you think you can get out, he pulls you back in again. And don't think you can skim your way through. The facts in this book are so well interwoven that to skim a sentence may mean losing your place in the chapter.<br />An excellent book for that rainy day or suuny day in the park, or on the train, or anywhere, for that matter.	2001-01-16
US	52906303	ROEUAFWA1YJMO	0226304981	849816075	Basel in the Age of Burckhardt: A Study in Unseasonable Ideas	Books	5	17	19	N	N	A Look at Fin-de-Sicele Basel	Over the years many books have been written on the culture of fin-de-siecle Vienna, but no one had attempted a similar study of Basel, Switzerland, a city that blossomed as a cultural center during the Renaissance and then slowly faded over the centuries, as peace and prosperity teamed together to eliminate the tensions that make a city into a center of arts and literature. Vienna was done in by the war, Basel by peace.<br />Lionel Gossman has written an interesting and lively study of the city, choosing to focus on the four major thinkers that mark its last great period in intellectual history: Jacob Burckhardt, Johann Jacob Bachofen, Frans Overbeck, and Friedrich Nietzsche. and how their ideas were ultimately interwoven with the culture and tradition of Basel itself.<br />Recommended for anyone interested in the history of ideas and the question of not only whether liberty can co-exist with democracy, but can a culture keep alive in a setting that has escaped the tensions of its day, such as revolution, depression and war?	2001-01-16
US	52906303	R1CYR8T8OMXHWC	0684835207	373319673	Communicating in Sign: Creative Ways to Learn American Sign Language (ASL) (A Flying Hands Book)	Books	5	56	57	N	N	I Judge This Book By Its Results	How-to books on ASL, like any other how-to book, must ultimately be judged on their practical results. Using that standard, Diane Chambers and her amazing book must receive the highest accolades.<br />Our company recently decided to teach ASL to all employees because almost five percent of our workforce was deaf, and there was a noticeable communication gap between us. In a company of 200 employees we had only two who were fluent in ASL. Without them to translate and act as a buffer, the uneasiness we already felt through our communication gap changed into outright panic as we became reduced to passing written notes back and forth. Our deaf employees never took part in any company activies, perfering to associate with themselves. Our personnel director asked if anyone would be interested in learning ASL and practically the entire company expressed such an interest.<br />As one of our ASL signers had ASL teaching experience, he volunteered to give the course. I suggested Diane Chambers' book and he used it as the text. Using one of our deaf employees to practice on, the class was held on company time for an hour a day. The chapters on ASL helped us to &quot;speak&quot; to them, and the chapter of deaf culture helped us to understand them. The quickest among us learned in a little over a week, the slower among us took three weeks. But all can, and do, make use of the ASL they learned and we have a much more happy, and more productive, office as a result.<br />Many other books of ASL have nicer covers and nicer illustrations. This one has nicer results.	2001-01-14
US	52906303	R22LYF6PDIUMVD	0156466856	960378799	Kant: From The Great Philosophers, Volume 1	Books	5	48	49	N	N	The Best Introduction to the Philosophy of Kant	The one philosopher who discourages more students of philosophy is Immanuel Kant, the hands-down winner. Yet, it is not his ideas that are difficult to understand, but, rather, getting to his ideas, which are cocooned in a maze of needlessly bad technical writing.<br />Thus, most would-be students of Kant seek a basic introduction to his thought, only to find that the vast majority of these are even denser than that which they seek to explain. Who wants to shell out $19.95 for an introduction to Kant that itself needs an introduction?<br />Well, you can relax, because there is a highly readable introduction to the great man's philosophy that sells for less than ten dollars. Written by the great 20th Century existential philosopher Karl Jaspers as part of his &quot;Great Philosophers&quot; series, it stands out as an easy to read, easy to understand introduction to one of the giants of philosophy. Armed in such a manner, Kant's actual writings will become less formidible, more appealing to both eye and mind.<br />Do not waste your time reading an academic's explanation of Kant. Read a major philosopher's introduction instead, for it not only takes a great mind to understand a great mind, but also to make the thought of that great mind accessible to all.	2001-01-14
US	52906303	R3KZZAO61T17UN	0300072546	781964083	Hannah Arendt/Martin Heidegger	Books	1	4	9	N	N	Tabloid Philosophy	When Hannah Arendt was a student she fell in love with and had an affair with her married professor and mentor. Nothing new in that; she wasn't the first and she certainly wasn't the last. And the whole thing would have been relegated to the dustbin of her life by biographers if that teacher was anyone but Martin Heidegger. The news of this discovery adds the lurid overtones necessary for philosophy to compete with the likes of Enquirer-style gossip in the hands of less talented practitioners, where it becomes a sort of an over-intellectual &quot;The Blue Angel,&quot; only no one gets ruined.<br />Make no mistake about it, to judge from this book, Ettinger is one of the least talented practitioners out there. While their affair would make an interesting chapter in a biography of either, it certainly does not deserve a full-length book treatment. In the end she leaves more questions unanswered. What effect did their reconcilation in 1950 have on the thought of Arendt? To what extent, personal or professional, was Arendt an apologist for Heidegger? These are just two of the many questions the reader will not find the answer for in this book. Instead we are treated to a sweaty, turgid tale; soft porn for the intellectual set.<br />That Martin Heigegger had a prominent effect on the thought of Hannah Arendt is unmistakeable, but if you want a book about them, try Dana Villa's excellent Arendt and Heidegger. Leave this Paul Johnson (Intellectuals) wanna-be where it belongs,: in the remainder pile of intellectual history.	2001-01-07
US	52906303	R17CBW58RWS5ZO	0812932021	187071102	How Hitler Could Have Won World War II: The Fatal Errors That Led to Nazi Defeat	Books	4	21	25	N	N	What If . . . ?	One of the most favorite games among the historians I know is &quot;What If?&quot; It allows one to indulge one's intellect in a rational speculation, use the tools of historical analysis in which one has been trained, and above all, to stretch the imagination. In the case of an Adolf Hitler, the &quot;What If?&quot; game also takes the place of the good old campfire horror story.<br />And Bevin Alexander has us around a roaring campfire for his re-telling and shaping of &quot;What If?&quot; into a minor masterpiece. Just why did Hitler, with the world's most powerful army at his disposal and riding the wave of victory in 1940, committ not not one blunder, but a series of such that effectively snatched defeat from the jaws of victory? How close were the Nazis to victory?<br />Alexander attempts to answer the speculation by probing into Hitler's personality; that his paranoia mortally did in his political acumen.<br />But I have a &quot;What's If?&quot; that has been bothering me since I opened this book. What If . . . Hitler was simply the most overrated personage of the Twentieth Century? What if he were simply a case of the wrong man in the right place at the right time? Looking at the leadership of the Nazi Party during the twenties and early thirties one sees a lack of focus in its leadership -- except for one man, Hitler. It is possible that Hitler, by dint of his extraordinary focus (A product of paranoia?) was able to persevere where his peers failed. Nazi Germany during the thirties was no economic or political marvel, as social histories of the periods written by those who survived attest. What Hitler was most remembered for during the war was sacking generals who disagreed with him and ignoring the rest. The ultimate &quot;What If?&quot; question is &quot;What if Hitler had let his generals fight the war?&quot; But then Hitler was pursuing his own Wagnerian Gotterdammerung for Germany.<br />I had many other &quot;What If?&quot; questions, all inspired by this book. And that is the ultimate reward of this book: the power to inspire imaginative reflection in its readers. As only a few books have this power, I can recommend this volume wholeheartedly.his book. And that is the ultimate reward of this book: the power to inspire imaginative reflection in its readers. As only a few books have this power, I can recommend this volume wholeheartedly.	2001-01-07
US	52906303	RSFWSHEGW08C5	0151003033	860109077	Within Four Walls: The Correspondence between Hannah Arendt and Heinrich Blucher, 1936-1968	Books	5	20	20	N	N	Intimacy at Its Highest Level	Hannah Arendt has had much of her correspondence published over the last decade or so. We have volumes of her correspodence with Karl Jaspers, Mary McCarthy, Kurt Blumenfeld, and Martin Heidegger, among others. But these letters between Arendt and husband Heinrich Blucher stand out as the finest volume yet published. Whereas in the other volumes we see Arendt as student, friend, confidant, teacher, philosopher, intellectual, in these letters with Blucher we see Arendt as intimate confidant, vulnerable lover, and supportive wife. Heinrich Blucher was the one person to whom she could reveal herself, with whom she dropped her guard. The confidence was mutual as well; in Blucher's letters to Hannah we see his hopes, frustrations, trepidations, and above all, his devoted attachment to her hopes, needs and ambitions. Two people for whom the other was much more than a spouse or lover: someone in whom to take refuge in dark times.<br />The letters begin in 1936, shortly after Arendt and Blucher met in Paris, to which both escaped from Berlin in 1933: she after a short prison term for illegal Zionist activity, and he as a member of the German Communist Party, fleeing via Prague. At the time they met she was 29 and he 37. Both were married, but not to each other. They would not marry until 1940, shortly after their divorces became final.<br />Their first letters set the tone. Interspersed with intellectual and political affairs are their feelings for each other and their doubts and a lasting commitment can be achieved. IT grows from there, in all aspects, intellectual and emotional. When Arendt reproaches Blucher for not sticking to their letter-writing schedule, she tells him that she cannot continue to careen like a car wheel that has come off, &quot;without a single connection to home or anything I can rely on.&quot;<br />They also discuss mutual friends such as Karl Jaspers, Mary McCarthy, Alfred Kazin, and Martin Heidegger (whose relationship over the years with Arendt can only be described as ambivilent), holding nothing back and giving the reader a rare glimpse into their intellectual and social world, a glimpse one can only imagine in a formal biography of the two. As no one writes letters anymore, this is a most valuable look into an intellectual time and world as distant from our cyber-present as last century's history.<br />Worth your time and money? Yes - in every sense of the word.can only be described as ambivilent), holding nothing back and giving the reader a rare glimpse into their intellectual and social world, a glimpse one can only imagine in a formal biography of the two. As no one writes letters anymore, this is a most valuable look into an intellectual time and world as distant from our cyber-present as last century's history.<br />Worth your time and money? Yes - in every sense of the word.	2001-01-06
US	52906303	R2P4BQVASP9RRL	076030369X	232851021	Giant Earthmovers: An Illustrated History (Crestline Series)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	A Useful Introduction to Heavy Equipment	Keith Haddock has written a serious and lavishly illustrated introduction to the world of heavy equipment, a world not used to being treated in such an adult fashion.<br />Haddock traces the history and development of each type of machine listed in his book, along with their manufacturuers,and the history of each brand name in the field. Accompanying the text are a series of clear, relevant photographs that illustrate different brands and periods in the development of each machine. Whereas many books drop an adult approach for the \\"Oh Boy, What a Big Machine That Is!\\" view of things, Haddock sticks with his conviction that he is writing for an intelligent audience interested in the history and development of heavy earthmoving machines. It is an approach I greatly appreciate.<br />One qualm with this book and others like it: There is too much emphasis placed on the largest of the machines; probably in the belief that this is the only way to sell such an intelligent book. However, if this is the only approach, why are there no color photos? While I can appreciate the size of a Caterpillar Model 24H grader, let's face the fact that the graders we normally deal with, and the graders that helped build America's road system, are the Cat Models 10 and 12 grader. Also what about the automatic paving machine and ther roller. We never hear of their stories; yet without them, roads would be much the worse for wear.<br />But until such a book comes out, Haddock's tome is well worth the time and money and is guaranteed intelligent reading with much to offer in the way of learning.	2001-01-02
US	52906303	R2DDYJDDVEE1X	0252024974	413762806	Yellow Steel: The Story of the Earthmoving Equipment Industry	Books	5	20	20	N	Y	Fascinating Chronicle of Earthmoving History	Mention the words &quot;yellow steel&quot; to just about anyone and the image that most comes to mind is that of Caterpillar, whether bulldozer, excavator, or grader. And just about every child has been awed by the size and abilty of these large machines; witness the huge amount of toy bulldozers, excavators, dump trucks, etc.<br />But it has been this childlike awe that has prevented a serious look at the earthmoving industry and, especially, its history. When I look at a documentary or a book on the Ford Mustang, for instance, I will see the history, the roots, and the legend of the car, as well as several past year models which led to the present model. Now, if I watch a documentary or read a book on earthmoving equipment, all I see are the biggest trucks, shovels and tractors. Books are listed with title adjectives like &quot;Giant&quot; &quot;Huge&quot; &quot;Colossal,&quot; and the like. It's as if no one really wants to take this industry seriously.<br />The irony, of course, is that if it weren't for the earthmoving industry, there would be no interstate highway system, Hoover and Grand Coolee Dams, housing projects, sewer systems, or flood control. Perhaps a case could also be made that the environment would also be in better shape, but I rather doubt it.<br />William R. Haycraft, a former employee for Caterpillar Tractor, has written the first comprehensive history of this fascinating business. He covers the history of the earthmoving industry and the forces, economic and social, that contributed to the development of mechanized earthmoving equipment. The intelligence of the book reveals itself in its detailed coverage of the development of various types of machinery and the companies that manufactured them. From Adams road graders to Volvo wheel loaders, Haycraft informs the reader every step of the way, from company formation to (all too often) dissolution at the hands of both supply and demand - and other companies via merger. He also tells us how the strength of the American dollar, combined with fatal mistakes by the likes of International Harvester, Allis-Chalmbers and Bucyrus-Erie, and near-fatal mistakes by Caterpillar, allowed Japanese companies like Komatsu and Mitsubishi to not only gain an entry into the American marketplace with lower priced equipment, but, through mergers and buyouts of existing companies, to nearly achieve a complete dominationation of the marketplace.<br />Lavishly illustrated and intelligently captioned, Yellow Steel is an indispensible volume for industrial historians, social historians, and everyone who always wanted to drive such a machine.strength of the American dollar, combined with fatal mistakes by the likes of International Harvester, Allis-Chalmbers and Bucyrus-Erie, and near-fatal mistakes by Caterpillar, allowed Japanese companies like Komatsu and Mitsubishi to not only gain an entry into the American marketplace with lower priced equipment, but, through mergers and buyouts of existing companies, to nearly achieve a complete dominationation of the marketplace.<br />Lavishly illustrated and intelligently captioned, Yellow Steel is an indispensible volume for industrial historians, social historians, and everyone who always wanted to drive such a machine.	2001-01-01
US	52906303	R17TGBSWFFAOOV	0953709701	697395678	Pure Dynamite	Books	4	3	3	N	Y	Pure Dynamite From Start to Finish	With the current wrestling boom, we now have more biographies and autobiographies than ever. That's the good news. The bad news? Except for Mick Foley's book, none is really worth reading. Until now. Tom Billington, a.k.a. the Dynamite Kid, has written what is easily the best of the lot. Billington will tell you more about the business in half the pages Foley uses to tell you about himself. And what every wrestling fan really wants to know is the inner workings of the business and the inside dope on those who work in the business. Billington does not disappoint, giving the reader a close-up view of wrestling, warts and all, from his beginning in England to his premature retirement from injuries at the age of 40. In between he achieved superstardom in Europe, America and Japan, influencing a whole new generation of wrestlers with his combination of a strong working style and high-risk aerial manuevers. Unfortunately for the Kid, the cost of such a style proved to be his body, a body he abused over the years with drugs and steroids.<br />Were it not for the steroids, Billington might well be walking today, but he would not have had the impressive build, and, consequently, might never have made it to superstardom, especially in the WWF.<br />This book won't win Billington any fans among those in the wrestling business, especially among the Hart family and the Kid's own cousin, Davey Boy Smith (who emerges as the villain of the piece). However, it should win him new fans among wrestling addicts, who will surely appreciate the Kid's honest telling of his life's story.	2000-12-30
US	52906303	R3QE666QIJIUG3	0393048225	938238788	The Missing Middle: Working Families and the Future of American Social Policy (Century Foundation Books (Brookings Hardcover))	Books	4	8	8	N	N	Exposing the Reality Underneath the Myth	Theda Skocpol does an excellent job in bringing to light a problem that not only will not go away, but a problem that has been made worse by this nation's politicans, both Democrat and Republican. And yet it is an easy problem to ignore, because the economy has yet to betray it.<br />The word of the day is &quot;investment.&quot; The nation has enjoyed an 8-year bull market, the Dow, for the moment, is still over 10,000, and we are said to enjoy a budget surplus. Yet, there is talk of a further tax cut to aid those on whom the tax burden is supposedly the greatest: the rich and the poor.<br />But the largest and most oppressive tax burden has always fallen on the working class (often called the middle class to deflect any sort of class consciousness). It is the working class that pays the most into the system and gets the least out of it. The rich enjoy loopholes, the poor are helped by such gimmicks as the Earned Income Tax Credit. Both the loopholes and the EITC (as well as the budget surplus)are funded by the taxes paid by the working class, for whom the tax system offers few benefits aside from the famous mortgage interest deduction that is seemingly always under attack from some economist or politican as a form of welfare.<br />Skocpol takes a thoughtful look into a system that aids the very rich and the very poor often at the expense of the forgotten working class. A decline in wage progess coupled with little or, in many cases, no health care has left the working class vulnerable to financial disaster, often turning them into the working poor, where a two-salary family is often necessary to keep heads just above the financial water line.<br />Skocpol's only flaw is putting too much emphasis on the role of government. While government has certainly played its role in getting things to where they are today, the working class has functioned as an enabler. Union membership is down to less than 15% of the working class, and unions themselves often throw their support behind politicans who have little or no sympathy. Government policies have played their role in helping this country lose most of its manufacturing base in favor of a service economy (with its inevitable consequences in terms of wages and benefits). The slide towards today has been a broup effort.<br />How to fix the mess? Skocpol's suggestions, for the most part, would only serve to enable further mischief (lending individuals money from the Social Security Trust Fund for education or training), while others, such as the expansion of Medicare to all, are short on details on how to function without draining the economy -- and thus raising taxes on a working class ever more burdened by the spectre of overtaxation.<br />However, all criticisms aside, this is a welcome volume that should be more wide read than it probably will be.pport behind politicans who have little or no sympathy. Government policies have played their role in helping this country lose most of its manufacturing base in favor of a service economy (with its inevitable consequences in terms of wages and benefits). The slide towards today has been a broup effort.<br />How to fix the mess? Skocpol's suggestions, for the most part, would only serve to enable further mischief (lending individuals money from the Social Security Trust Fund for education or training), while others, such as the expansion of Medicare to all, are short on details on how to function without draining the economy -- and thus raising taxes on a working class ever more burdened by the spectre of overtaxation.<br />However, all criticisms aside, this is a welcome volume that should be more wide read than it probably will be.	2000-12-28
US	52906303	RKLWZJBDA1Z71	019289322X	849373642	The Great Philosophers: An Introduction to Western Philosophy	Books	5	64	65	N	N	Great Philosophers . . . Great Fun!	The basis of this wonderful book is a series of television programs first telecast by the BBC in 1987. However, while most would have stopped there and merely published the book as a transcript of the shows, Magee takes it one, two, and even three steps farther. As editor, he reworked the transcripts and even brought back his contributors for further revisions and improvements. The result is a delightful book that easily exceeds one's expectations, and mine were not so high given the fact the book is a series of conversations with academics about a particular philosopher or school of philosophy. In the wrong hands, this can be certain death by boredom. But in the right hands . . .<br />Can academics keep our interest while discussing philosophy? They can easily do so when: (1) they are allowed to rework and improve their material; and (2) when they are talking with Bryan Magee. Magee is no mere interviewer; he prods, interjects, disagrees, and yet allows his subject to shine when conversing about their subject. This is no mean feat; it takes a delicate skill to pull this off and still keep it entertaining. And this is exactly what Magee does. Whether he's asking Anthony Kenny his opinion on why so many great medieval philosophers come from The British Isles, asking Anthony Quinton to more exactly define Leibniz's Monad, debating Schopenhauer's philosophy with Frederick Copleston, or just sitting back and allowing Geoffrey Warnock to explain Kant's mataphysics, Magee keeps his readers not only entertained, but delightfully informed.<br />The highlights of the book are Passmore's explanation of Hume, Magee's defense of Schopenhauer during his conversation with Copleston (was included because he penned book, albeit hostile, about Schopenhauer), Warnock's easy explation of Kant's sometimes difficult metaphysics, Hubert Dreyfus on Husserl and Heidegger, and John Searle explaing the wonder that is Wittgenstein. Quite a lot of highlights for such a book, but as I said before, this is no ordinary book.<br />One final word: Magee is often described as a popularizer, a word that is often used disparingly, as in &quot;He's not an expert, he's just a popularizer.&quot; Nonsense. A popularizer is at root a teacher, and to be a popularizer, one must really have a firm grasp of the subject matter. There are good popularizers and bad popularizers. Magee is among the very best. He not only knows his subject matter, but has the unique talent of making the experts not only entertaining, but also amazingly lucid.<br />This book is a bargain at any price.re, this is no ordinary book.<br />One final word: Magee is often described as a popularizer, a word that is often used disparingly, as in &quot;He's not an expert, he's just a popularizer.&quot; Nonsense. A popularizer is at root a teacher, and to be a popularizer, one must really have a firm grasp of the subject matter. There are good popularizers and bad popularizers. Magee is among the very best. He not only knows his subject matter, but has the unique talent of making the experts not only entertaining, but also amazingly lucid.<br />This book is a bargain at any price.	2000-12-19
US	52906303	R2G33UL7SCR4UT	0684828022	902049808	Bertrand Russell : The Spirit of Solitude 1872-1921	Books	5	15	18	N	N	The Best Russell Bio To Date	Question: How would Ray Monk follow his wildly successful biography of Ludwig Wittgenstein? Answer: He takes on the life of Wittgenstein's teacher, and the most public philosopher of the 20th century, Bertrand Russell.<br />There are a myriad of biographies of Russell in and out of print; even the most ardent Russell admirer could easily admit burnout on this score. Russell himself penned an autobiography that lends itself more to literature than fact. Why should one spend money and time on yet another biography?<br />Two reasons should suffice, I hope. Monk is a thorough biographer, but not an adoring one. Although some others have also been critical, none brings to the subject the background in analytical philosophy that Monk does, and this is an important factor when discussing the life and thought of a philosopher, for both are obviously and subtly interwined in the subject.<br />Secondly, Russell was more than an academic philosopher, he was a public figure who was more well known than his philosophy. His life was lived in the pages of the press and made great fodder for the newshounds. Whether it was his many love affairs (including a disastrous one with poet T.S. Eliot's unstable wife Vivian) or his peace campaign during the first World War that led to his jailing by the English government, Russell always made good copy. Monk takes the reader behind the headlines to the events and forces that shaped the young Russell's life and philosophy. His partnership with Alfred North Whitehead in the co-authorship of Principia Mathematica is expertly handled, as is Russell's later dalliance with the Bloomsbury Group.<br />This is the first of two projected volumes and I can't wait to read Part Two.	2000-12-19
US	52906303	RSVKSY2KISMPM	0942637453	41765833	My Life With Groucho	Books	4	19	19	N	N	Third Time Around is the Final Charm	My Life With Groucho is a composite of Arthur's two previous books about his father, Life with Groucho and Son of Groucho. Only this time, with Groucho's death and the court fight for his estate, is there finality to the three volume saga.<br />Part One of the the book is a virtual reprint from Arthur's first tome, Life With Groucho, written in the mid-Fifties. As this book is now out of print, this section becomes a valuable source of information for collectors of Marxiana who were too young or not even born when this book was published.<br />Part Two is a summary of Son of Groucho's better parts, meaning those concerning life with Dad after Life With Groucho was published. Detailed in full is the inter-family ruckus that almost prevented the publishing of the first book, and Arthur takes us to the end of his father's life, warts and all, although tempered by the perspective of a loving son.<br />The last part of the book concerns itself with the ensuing fight for Groucho's estate and the pernicious influence of Erin Fleming on Groucho's life.<br />Highly recommended for Marx fans and anyone else seeking an insight into what it was like to grow up in a family headed by a Marx Brother.	2000-12-17
US	52906303	R1SZZFCD8JLABP	1566631238	891732579	Kant in 90 Minutes (Philosophers in 90 Minutes Series)	Books	2	30	32	N	N	Learn Kant in 90 Minutes? Not With This Book	Immanuel Kant has a well deserved reputation as one of the most difficult philosophers to read and to study. His writing style is, to be generous, rather convoluted. One could only imagine Kant's laundry lists: they must be pages and pages in length.<br />So it comes as no surprise that a Get-Kant-Quick book would be desired by many intelligent readers who do not have the time to translate the English translation of Kant's writings into English. And there are such books out there that will enable one to do just that. Unfortunately, this isn't one of them.<br />Don't be taken in by the inexpensive price - all you really get for your shekels is a cursory summary of Kant's life and thought, with more emphasis on the biography than the thought. A dialogue on Kant's metaphysics follows. Add to that short passages from Kant's writings, and timeline chronologies of Kant's life and the history of philosophy. All this for about $6.00.<br />For a few dollars more, you can buy Karl Jaspers's excellent short book on Kant taken from his &quot;Great Philosophers&quot; books. The difference between Paul Strathern and Karl Jaspers is that between a backyard barbeque cook and the Iron Chef.<br />To illustrate my point in this regard, consider Strathern's discussion of Kant's Categorical Imperative. While he takes the first part into account, &quot;Act as if what you do should be a universal law,&quot; he forgets the second part, &quot;Treat others as ends and not as means.&quot; Strathern gives us an example of Kant being asked by the Nazis as to the whereabout of a Jewish friend. Strathern noted that, according to Kant's own dictum, to tell a lie even to a murderer is wrong. But he then notes that perhaps &quot;his highly active mind would quickly discovered a duty which forbade him to hand over his friend. If Strathern had taken the time to digest the complete Categorical Imperative, he would have the answer. (A Kantian would replay that, although he knows where his friend is, he could not turn the friend over, for the person is an end and not a means to an end.)<br />Jaspers knew this, and so does Scruton: the difference between spending you money and getting your money's worth.could not turn the friend over, for the person is an end and not a means to an end.)<br />Jaspers knew this, and so does Scruton: the difference between spending you money and getting your money's worth.	2000-12-11
US	52906303	RGRKUW9Q3EY5P	0156225999	946950097	Correspondence 1926-1969	Books	5	10	11	N	N	More Than a Correspondence - A Dialogue	In 1926 Hannah Arendt was a student of Karl Jaspers at Heidelberg University. What began as the questions of a student to her teacher in 1926 blossomed into a friendly correspondence that ended with Arendt's forced emigration from Nazi Germany to the United States, with a stopover in France in the 30s, and then resumed in the Postwar years completely transformed into a rich, detailed dialogue between colleagues and friends, taking on a father-daughter feeling in many of the letters.<br />It was during the years after 1945 that the two examined everything about their world and themselves. Of particular importance were the dual issues of German guilt for the war and, for Jaspers, what it meant to be a Jew, for not only was Arendt and her husband Jewish, but also Jaspers's wife. This issue becomes intertwined in their conversations about the future of West Germany, the Suez War of 1956, and Arendt's trip to Jerusalem to cover the trial of Adolf Eichmann. When they shift the political into the personal, Martin Heidegger, a colleague of Jaspers and a teacher of Arendt, is there for taking. The passages concerning Heidegger are quite gossipy at times and lend the reader a voyeuristic look into the private worlds of Arendt and Jaspers. It's almost as if when things get dull and weighty, a little dirt about Heidegger adds just the spice to make the letter memorable.<br />The other strong point of this book is the portrait Arendt paints of politics in 1950s America, succinctly analyzing the Eisenhower (and later Kennedy) Administrations, describing the collapse of the cities in the 60s, and the &quot;pointless&quot; war in Vietnam. It's almost as if a mirror were held up to history, as insights about those turbelent times pour forth from every letter dispatched.<br />An invaluable book, not only for those interested in the scholarly events of the times, but for anyone interested in the history of the times.	2000-12-11
US	52906303	R1EJNJKBFVWV7R	1573922234	384783147	Nietzsche & the Jews: Exaltation & Denigration	Books	5	14	14	N	N	The Title Does Not Do This Wonderful  Book Justice	Siegfried Mandel's Nietzsche and the Jews is a title which either attracts instantly or detracts instantly. In my case I was a little put off by the title, for it almost sounds like a parody. When I began to read I noticed the book takes a biographical path with regard to its subject matter, tracing Nietzsche's exposure to anti-Semitism throught his years. I have read many, too many in fact, biographies of Nietzsche and was about ready to '86 this one. I'm glad I didn't, for when I got to the chapters concerning Wagner and Nietzsche, the book suddenly came alive with little known facts based on terrific research. Nietzsche's relationships with Richard and Cosima Wagner, Peter Gast, Paul Ree and Franz Overbeck are examined against the background of German anti-Semitism and Nietzsche's reaction to it.<br />Also, whereas most books center on sister Elizabeth and Lou Salome when discussing Nietzsche and women, Mandel provides a deep look at the relationship between Nietzsche and Helen Zimmern, his first translator and herself a Jew. Scattered in between are some revealing tidbits about Nietzsche and sexuality rarely revealed in other studies.<br />Another strong point is the chapters on Jewish scholars and disciples interested in Nietzsche, such as poet Siegfried (Solomon) Lipiner, scientist Josef Paneth, and journalist Paul Lansky. The chapter on critic Georg Brandes is an absolute gem.<br />Two Appendix chapters on Nietzsche's thought concerning the Jews contain an excellent analysis of Nietzsche's often confusing writings on the subject.<br />If you are looking for a serious book on this subject, or if you are looking for just a good book on Nietzsche, this one is definitely one to add to your collection.	2000-12-08
US	52906303	R12E0AAFCD6XR1	078943511X	783631365	Story of Philosophy	Books	4	8	10	N	N	An Illustrated, Cursory Look at Philosophy	Bryan Magee is a philosophy professor who has used the medium of television to spread the word about philosophy. He hsoted a minseries on the history of philosophy for the BBC constructed much in the same manner as Sir Kennth Clarke's history of art, &quot;Civilization,&quot; and the dozens of imitators that have since followed. Magee also hosted a series called &quot;The Great Philosophers,&quot; in which academics discuss a particular philosopher with Magee. (For instance, Martha Nussbaum on Aristotle; Frederick Copleston on Schopenhauer.)<br />The Story of Philosophy is much in the style of Bertrand Russell's book, The Wisdom of the West, which is also a cursory look at philosophy, albeit Western philosophy, but also lavishly illustrated. Magee's book, on the other hand, reads almost like a companion to the history of philosophy series Magee hosted. It boasts many lush illustrations and cursory summaries of major thinkers categorized into television-esque chapters, such as &quot;The Great Rationalists,&quot; &quot;The Great Empiricists,&quot; &quot;A Golden Century of German Philosophy.&quot; As such it is better aimed at high school students or beginners rather than those mote familiar with philosophy.<br />But if you can't keep away from those illustrations, most of which are gorgeous, and want a coffee table-type book to stimulate discussion, or simply show off, this is quite a good book to have to your disposal. It's a lot of fun and sure to start a conversation or two.	2000-12-08
US	52906303	R3L7F1KVM33KSR	0415183731	567729189	Introduction to Phenomenology	Books	4	62	62	N	Y	The Joy of Phenomenology	Finally, an intelligent, clear and remarkably concise (considering its 568 pages) introduction to phenomenology and the leading figures of the phenomenological movement. Told in a straightforward style with no reliance on the technical jargon that has so frustrated readers in the past. Moran covers major figures from Brentano through Derrida, touching on their lives and thought, with part of the chapter or an entire chapter dedicated to an analysis of his or her major work on the subject. As a result, the reader not only gains a solid overview on each phenomenologist, but will also discover in the process just why phenomenology is such an attractive subject and why its has gained so many adherents over the years.<br />One slight complaint on my part. While there is no doubt that Hannah Arendt is one of the Twentieth Century's major thinkers, her reputation is not in phenomenology, though she was a student of Heidegger. I believe this volume would have been better served instead by the inclusion of Aron Gurwitsch and Alfred Schutz, both of whom applied the method of phenomenology to science and sociology, respectively. The Arendt inclusion is a little too redolent of political correctness to suit me, and does not serve her to the effect she deserves from such a study.<br />But then, one can't have everything, and the plusses of this volume far outweigh any petty complaints of mine. Overall, a volume that should be in every philosophy library.	2000-11-28
US	52906303	R423BSZZPO874	038097763X	482873508	America Afire: Jefferson, Adams, and the Revolutionary Election of 1800	Books	5	35	35	N	N	History Comes Alive in Weisberger's Hands	Here's the perfect book for this election season, and one which sets our minds at ease knowing this wasn't the only closely contested election in American history.<br />More than that, however, is the brilliant portrait Weisberger paints of our Founding Fathers. While they came together in Philadelphia to proclaim independence, they would come together later in Philadelphia to participate in political machinations against each other concerning the future direction of the young republic. John Adams and Thomas Jefferson would suffer a rupture in their friendship that would last over ten years, not only over the course the Adams presidency took, but the mud that was slung in the campaign of 1800.<br />The capper to all this, and it should come as no surprise, was the role of the media (newspapers) in exploiting and encouraging the slander, the accusations and the tension between the Federalists of Adams and the Republicans of Jefferson. The media of today has nothing on the writers of the late Eighteenth Century who made absolutely no pretense about where their loyalties were. Weisberger makes it into a fascinating backdrop to the election, showing the passion and the tenor of the times.<br />As to the principals of 1796 and 1800, Adams is portrayed as a brilliant man, caught in the middle between England and France, while trying to steer America on a neutral course. All the while in the background is the figure of Alexander Hamilton, pulling strings to replace Adams with a friendlier Federalist candidate and almost costing Adams the 1796 election as a result.<br />Jefferson comes across as a consummate politican, accepting the Vice-Presidency in 1796 with a hostile Adams as President, waiting his chance in 1800 when he saw the time as being right. Adams will suffer through numerous foreign policy errors concerning France, some of his making and others the result of his Republican opponents. The Republican newspapers would cause Adams to make the biggest blunder of his Presidency over the opposition of such Federalists as John Marshall, The Alien and Sedition Acts of 1898, ostensibly designed to deport hostile foreign-born residents (mostly French) who were wont to side the Republicans and to make it a crime to criticize the Government of the United States. It was a mistake that would have disastrous consequences for him in the next election.<br />And yet, all of this wonderful history could turn to the dullest lead in the wrong hands. Weisberger takes the facts of America's early years and makes them come alive for the reader. By employing a clear, concise style that eschews both bombast and the tendency to lose the narrative in an ocean of information, Weisberger keeps us on the edge of our seats throughout the book, even though we already know how it comes out.Presidency over the opposition of such Federalists as John Marshall, The Alien and Sedition Acts of 1898, ostensibly designed to deport hostile foreign-born residents (mostly French) who were wont to side the Republicans and to make it a crime to criticize the Government of the United States. It was a mistake that would have disastrous consequences for him in the next election.<br />And yet, all of this wonderful history could turn to the dullest lead in the wrong hands. Weisberger takes the facts of America's early years and makes them come alive for the reader. By employing a clear, concise style that eschews both bombast and the tendency to lose the narrative in an ocean of information, Weisberger keeps us on the edge of our seats throughout the book, even though we already know how it comes out.	2000-11-28
US	52906303	R1TJJKVE9YKQHU	188766436X	533004887	As Long As They're Laughing : Groucho Marx and You Bet Your Life	Books	5	14	14	N	N	Why He's The One, The Only . . . Groucho!	Back in the Golden Days of Television, two game shows stood out: What's My Line? and You Bet Your Life. Neither offered money as its hook, but rather good intelligent conversation. That neither show can be duplicated today is just another sign of the times in which we live. Both shows had a mystique about them that made them special and made people tune in.<br />Robert Dwan does a wonderful job of explaining the mystique behind You Bet Your Life, and though most of it is rightfully due to the talents of Groucho Marx, Dwan explains just how the show was put tigether each week and the behind the scenes and politics that shaped it during its run as America's most popular quiz show.<br />Dwan also offers a history of the show, from its beginnings on radio and how Groucho, who had already failed numerous times in radio, was convinced to take the job as emcee of a &quot;lowly&quot; quiz show. Dwan tells his story in the manner of a gentle reminiscence that pulls the reader along while providing a few laughs, and surprises, along the way. (One surprise is that for all Groucho's leering and suggestiveness, he abhorred &quot;working dirty,&quot; and considered it the cheapest way to get a laugh. Many times on the show an innocent line became a memorable one in the imagination of the audience, who were expecting Groucho to come right out and say what they were thinking.)<br />With the recent surge in published books on the Marx Brothers, this gentle tome from a small press might well be forgotten in the shuffle. Instead, to those who read it, it will become one of the fondest and best remembered books on the subject.<br />One thing I would like to see is the reprint of The Secret Word is Groucho, by Groucho himself and Hector Arce. as a previous reviewer perceptibly noted, the two make an excellent boxed set. But as that book is out of print, you can't go wrong with the Dwan book.	2000-11-27
US	52906303	R225YZ9SHW8JPQ	0375410546	388721998	When We Were Orphans	Books	3	4	6	N	N	Disappointing	After reading The Remains of the Day I became a fan of Kazuo Ishiguro. After reading When We Were Orphans, however, I realized that what worked in the previous novel -- an at-arms-length narration and storyboard structure -- does not work in this book. At times I almost got the feeling that it was specifically written to be a movie, for the structure reads almost like a screenplay, yet the dialogue is so weak, a total rewrite would be required. The plot is a most interesting one, but the execution is so flawed as to make one impatient for the end; not a feeling to have when settling down with a novel, especially one so eagerly anticipated.	2000-11-25
US	52906303	R5CJFUBEKU7DW	0226260127	841931612	The Conquest of Cool: Business Culture, Counterculture, and the Rise of Hip Consumerism	Books	5	45	52	N	N	Required Reading in Today's Corporate World	Thomas Frank has written one of the most important, and yet baffling, works on understanding the Megamachine and like others of his type (Lewis Mumford, Jacques Ellul), it will strike so close to home as to be actually uncomfortable to read and digest and still view the world as before. The thesis that Madison Ave. invented the counter-culture by co-opting the hip underground culture of the time is both brilliant and obvious; so obvious, in fact, that its very simplicity caused it to go unnoticed for years. That is the very essence of the Megamachine, the ability to absorb humanist and revolutionary trends, only to revise them in the very image of the machine and counter to their intended purposes. Only when up against another machine (fascism, Soviet Marxism, Chinese Marxism) does the Megamachine have to posit counter values. (i.e., Hollywood propaganda: &quot;Why We Fight,&quot; Red Scare films, why Hiroshima and Nagasaki, as well as Dresden, were necessary for freedom, etc.)<br />I remember an interview with a rock star of the 60s who boasted that by publishing his music the Establishment was laying the very seeds for its own destruction. Nonsense. Nothing truly subversive would ever be allowed to pass through those hallowed commercial halls. Frank's book shows just how insidious the Megamachine is in its cultural hegemony.	2000-11-25
US	52906303	RR3N3PEX6A9ND	015688254X	898742327	Technics and Civilization	Books	5	57	60	N	N	The First Critique of the Myth of Technology	Lewis Mumford is widely regarded as a critic of architecture, but his true importance in intellectual history is as a critic of technology and the myth of progress that accompanies technology, making it seem as if every technological advance is a step forward in civilization. That the events from 1945 onward dispute this claim would seem evident, but themselves are brushed over in favor of the prevailing paradigm.<br />Mumford was the first to take a critical look at technology and its accompanying mythos, and even though this book was later surpassed by his masterpiece, The Myth of the Machine, it is still worth reading for its approach to the tenor of its time (written during the Depression).<br />You can safely ignore the last chapters when Mumford attempts to offer an alternative to the technological society. Like most critics, he is mercifully short on alternatives. (Considering what alternatives were given humanity over the centuries, you can understand why I said that.) Until we truly understand technology and the role it has taken in our lives, we will be no closer to a solution than Mumford was in the Thirties.<br />For anyone who wishes to study the intellectual history of the West, this is an indispensible volume.	2000-11-24
US	52906303	R2EL9QAWLUH67O	0674945859	520751685	Walter Benjamin: Selected Writings, Volume 1: 1913-1926	Books	5	11	18	N	N	An Excellent Introduction	Walter Benjamin has progressed over the years from an obscure lesser member of the Frankfurt School to a widely read leading member of that obscure school. Aided by such as Hannah Arendt, who introduced him to a wider audience in her writings (and also to me), readers have come to appreciate Benjamin for the beauty of his writing as well as his sharp insight.<br />This volume, along with its companion, is an excellent introduction to the style and thought of this man who, while out of step with his times, possessed the insight to give those times an original critique.<br />Possessed of a lively style and free from the Marxist bagge that weighs down his Frankfurt School colleagues such as Adorno and Horkheimer (I think Benjamin owes much more to Heidegger than Marx), Benjamin will hook any reader who takes the time to spend an hour or two with this book. From here it's an easy step to purchase other Benjamin writings, a step I can almost guarantee.	2000-11-24
US	52906303	RPNW0FHPHZSC7	0810104571	160631145	The Visible and the Invisible (Studies in Phenomenology and Existential Philosophy)	Books	5	54	68	N	N	Merleau-Ponty's Last Work	The Visible and the Invisible is the last work of Maurice Merleau-Ponty, left unfinished by his untimely death. (Does anyone really have a timely death?)<br />In this volume from Northwestern University Press, the unfinished text is appended by the working notes for the volume in an excellent translation by Alphonso Lingis with deft editing and a sterling introduction by Claude Lefort.<br />Merleau-Ponty, arguably the greatest philosopher of the Twentieth Century (he does not carry the baggage Heidegger does), was moving in this volume to a new determination of the relationship between phenomenology and ontology. Reading the volume and the working notes leads the reader to wonder how successful it would have been had Merleau-Ponty lived to publish it. As it is, it adds up to another of the intangibles taht make Western intellectual history such an enticing puzzle. Recommended for anyone interested in Twentieth Century philosophy.	2000-11-24
US	52906303	R1ILZDIRDM6T40	038547704X	108675522	Gore Vidal: A Biography	Books	4	4	4	N	Y	Facts Aside, Vidal Remains Elusive	A biographer's task begins with difficulty. Add more difficulty when his subject is still alive, and square that when the subject is as lively, controlling and litigious as Gore Vidal. When I learned that this project was about to be undertaken, I simply rolled my eyes and whipered &quot;Good Luck, Mr. Kaplan.&quot;<br />Needless to say, I was not surprised when I read the results, for they were exactly what I expected. However, my expectation was tempered by my joy at discovering heretofore unknown facts about the life of the subject.<br />Given the handicap of working with Vidal, Kaplan produces a surprisingly strong biography. When judging it we must keep two things in mind: (1) Before this book, little was known of Vidal's life other than what appeared in the society pages and gossip sheets. For someone who has lived the last forty years of his life squarely in the public eye, Vidal has remained virtually unkown to that public. (2) Vidal is still very much with us and he is an extremely controlling person. Kaplan had a hell of a battle in refusing Vidal's request to see the manuscript before publication. As it was, the omissions from the book are minor and the book itself is surprisingly factual in spite of the hurdles Kaplan had to face. (For instance, Vidal didn't become political until the late Fifties, a fact which Kaplan deftly works in at the right moment.)<br />Now that the tome is in paperback, one can safely buy it without the feeling of having wasted one's money. For those purists out there who feel the book was not worth the time, remember this: The book is well-written and contains many items and facts about the life of Gore Vidal that were not public knowledge. And that he wrote such a tome under the controlling gaze of Vidal was a triumph in itself. For those who want an unexpurgated life of Vidal, sorry . . . you'll just have to wait until after his death.	2000-11-24
US	52906303	R26EQNYL3N7LZT	0226037339	488070883	The Story I Tell Myself: A Venture in Existentialist Autobiography	Books	1	5	36	N	N	A Story She Should Have Kept to Herself	What is the exact need of academics to write their autobiographies? Case in Point: Hazel Barnes. An academic who was the first to provide a faithful translation of Sartre, she also wrote an excellent little study, An Existentialist Ethics. If she had left it at that, she might have been left with a nice little intellectual legecy, albeit, a mostly anomymous one as her books go out of print and more precise translations of Sartre become available. But she has to write her autobiography, and if there ever was a useless tome, this is surely it. Though well written, the reader will quickly come to the conclusion that there is nothing really to write about, nothing that couldn't have been captured in a magazine article for the New Yorker or the American Scholar, that is. I found it a surprise that she was, indeed, an existentialst, for she is surely among the most repressed people on the face of the earth. Not the stuff of existential heroism and certainly not the stuff to charge a person $20.00 or so dollars to read.	2000-11-19
US	52906303	R38FZ30JQW3G3K	0415045568	979899541	Phenomenology of Perception (Routledge Classics) (Volume 85)	Books	5	18	21	N	Y	A Classic of 20th Century Thought	When all is said and done (and that will take a while) on the studies of philosophy in the 20th century, two names will stand out as being the most influential: Martin Heidegger and Maurice Merleau-Ponty. The Phenomenology of Perception was Merleau-Ponty's second work and lays the foundation for his later writings. What Merleau-Ponty attempts to do in this work is to take phenomenology away from the idealist and dualistic tracks of Husserl and Sartre and ground it firmly in ontology through a psychological analysis of perception. In doing so, Merleau-Ponty lays the foundations for Structuralism and its later incarnations, for better or worse, Poststructuralism and Deconstructuralism. (Derrida and Foucault attended his lectures.)Required reading for any student of 20th century thought and anyone who wants to know how philosophy came to its present position.	2000-11-18
US	52906303	RUCQL92CIEFN5	0312252927	782900251	Monkey Business: The Lives and Legends of The Marx Brothers	Books	5	14	16	N	N	The Best Book Yet on the Marx Brothers	Simon Louvish follows up his excellent biography of W. C. Fields with this ground-breaking study of the Marx Brothers. As with the Fields biography, Louvish demythologizes the story of the Marxes and gives us Marx fans a lot more information to digest and enjoy. Fans have tended to accept the early stories of Marx family life as carved in stone; Louvish shows how the real story differs and does it with loving respect rather than the harshness of a debunker. In addition to the Marxes, Louvish also takes a few sidebar trips into the lives of the not so well known supporting players, such as Margaret Dumont, whose life was draped in legend. Well researched and well written. As to the criticism of those who think his writing reflects too much of the Marx style of comedy, I can only reply that no one seemed to mind when Joe Adamson did the same thing in his landmark study on the Marx Brothers films, Groucho, Harpo, Chico and Sometimes Zeppo. I think this style of writing goes with the turf, so to speak, and in any case its annoyance factor is negligible compared to the rewards of his research. Highly recommded for any serious as well as casual Marx fan.	2000-11-18
US	52906303	R3R3M1KMG5ICO6	0375405046	761338189	NoBrow: The Culture of Marketing - the Marketing of Culture	Books	2	28	30	N	N	An Overblown New Yorker Article	Although the title looked enticing, I was greatly disappointed as I read this slim volume. I was vaguely told what &quot;Nobrow&quot; was, but no whys, no wherefores. Was it a celebration of Nobrow or a critique? The book contains profiles of what the author sees as noted Nobrow figures, like David Geffen and George Lucas. They seemed to be re-edited New Yorker articles, and are nice as they go, but after 200 or so pages, I still don't have much of a clue as to what Nobrow really is. I did, however, learn who the author was. He seems to be the sub-text of this book. We know he is a feature writer at the New Yorker, a Princeton grad, and lives somewhere in Tribeca. If you want to read a book about today's culture and its roots, read Thomas Franks' The Conquest of Cool. If you want to read a book about the New Yorker, try Bright Lights, Big City. At least it's more honest.	2000-11-14
US	52906303	R2OTIJU4VCHR9D	0385500750	696295159	The Golden Age: A Novel	Books	5	31	33	N	N	HURRAH FOR VIDAL'S LAST HURRAH	There is an old saying that when it's time to go out, go out with a bang. This is exactly what Gore Vidal does in this, the last novel in his &quot;American Chronicles&quot; series. An updating and rewriting of his earlier novel, &quot;Washington, D.C.,&quot; &quot;The Golden Age&quot; shifts its focus to the nation as a whole and the chain of events that involved us in World War 2 and the Cold War. Gossipy and inclusive rather than pedantic and exclusive (as many historical novels tend to be), Vidal gives the reader the view of an insider, partially because he had grown up on the fringes of that inside. Among the many historical character the reader meets in the pages of the novel is none other than Gore Vidal himself. This should be no surprise as Vidal is one of the most autobiographical of American authors, his memoir &quot;Palimpsest&quot; reading almost like a novel. Non-Vidal fans may not like the Calvino-esque ending, but those among us who love Vidal's writings will feel more than a touch of sadness at the end. More entertaining than &quot;Empire&quot; or &quot;Hollywood,&quot; &quot;The Golden Age&quot; belongs on the shelf of all serious readers.	2000-11-10
US	52906303	RXRGNBHT11NNQ	0520210778	736500263	Heisenberg and the Nazi Atomic Bomb Project, 1939-1945: A Study in German Culture	Books	1	48	55	N	N	For Heisenberg Compleatists Only	Poor Werner Heisenberg; once the poster boy for modern physics, his reputation has taken a beating in recent years. Rose's book is only the latest, and the least, in this trend. At the heart of the Heisenberg  controversy is why he stayed to &quot;build&quot; the A-Bomb for Hitler.  Why did he visit Bohr in Copenhagen? What was he after? It would seem that,  barring any heretofore undiscovered revelations, these questions will go  unanswered. Thus, all we have left is speculation, uncertainty.<br />While  most writers give Heisenberg the benefit of the doubt on his character  (After all, he was not anti-Semitic, nor was he a member of the Nazi  Party.), Rose sees him as a continuation of the German revolutionary spirit  that dates back to Luther, and thus condemns Heisenberg as guilty,  especially as Heisenberg was a German patriot, and it is extremely  difficult for Rose (as with most people) to distinguish a patriot from a  Nazi.<br />However, If Rose were a prosecutor, a jury would need only ten  minutes to acquit Heisenberg on all counts. Rose simply fails to make his  case. The alleged anti-Semitic remark by Heisenberg is second-hand via Max  Born back in 1945. Hardly the testimony that can convict. It also comes  late in the book, after we have been subjected to much screed about a  German radical anti-Semetic tradition that Heisenberg wanted no part of at  any time. Otherwise he would have been a good Party member, as were others  in his scientific circle. Also, as the excellent earlier review asserts,  this trend would have been long noticeable at Gottingen, the center of  German physics and natural science. No, Rose simply has no case and spends  over 300 pages making a hysterical justification for something that simply  never was.<br />However, this does not mean I am leaning toward the portrait  of Heisenberg given in Thomas Powers's book. Powers makes Heisenberg out to  be a sort of James Bond character, brilliantly defying the Nazis to prevent  the mad Hitler from obtaining the ultimate weapon. Nonsense. The simple  truth about Heisenberg was that he was both naive and a coward. Any chance  of him openly defying the Nazis was laid to rest with the attacks on his  &quot;Jewish physics&quot; in the SS newspaper. It is interesting that he  had to have his mother intervene with Himmler's mother to clear his name.  It tells us much about the character of Heisenberg.<br />Also consider  Heisenberg's theory that Hitler would lose the war and then evertything  would come out all right. Heisenberg felt the scientist was above mere  politics, and politics were only an unwanted intrusion into science. As the  Second World War bore out, he was not the only one to have that view.  Heisenberg's visit to Bohr may have been to ask for advice on how to  proceed in building a bomb. It seems Heisenberg wanted some sort of  absolution for remaining in Germany, and if he confessed to Bohr, that  would have assauged his guilt. But because Bohr refused to speak with him  in private, Heisenberg did the next best thing: he took the money for  nuclear research and farted it away on baseless research. The Allies were  surprised at how little the Germans accomplished in their program. But the  real question is how much did the OSS know? Powers has Moe Berg walking  next to Heisenberg in Switzerland with a revolver in his pocket, ready to  blow Heisenberg's brains out. Yet, he doesn't pull the trigger. Could it  have been that Berg discovered how little progress Heisenberg had made? If  that were to be leaked out, especially to those at Los Alamos, would our  scientists, many of whom were Jewish German emigres, hace continued work on  America's A-Bomb?<br />It is most interesting that Rose never touches on this  point in his screed, for it would undermine his argument. Instead he  focuses on Heisenberg's lack of technical expertise in understanding how  the bomb could be built. Heisenberg did indeed lack those engineering  skills, but so didhis counterpart in America, Robert Oppenheimer. But  Oppenheimer compensated with a tremendous will to build the unthinkable,  while Heisenberg was content not to ask to further funds or to even  speculate that a bomb could be built. The transcripts at Farm Hall pretty  much seem to bear this out, and in the process, destroy Rose's  case.<br />Heisenberg did not build the bomb, and he was crucified for it. One  only pauses to think how history would have treated him if he actually did  build a bomb.d his counterpart in America, Robert Oppenheimer. But  Oppenheimer compensated with a tremendous will to build the unthinkable,  while Heisenberg was content not to ask to further funds or to even  speculate that a bomb could be built. The transcripts at Farm Hall pretty  much seem to bear this out, and in the process, destroy Rose's  case.<br />Heisenberg did not build the bomb, and he was crucified for it. One  only pauses to think how history would have treated him if he actually did  build a bomb.	2000-07-31
US	52906303	R39UEIR38M3X0H	037540113X	362189149	Modern Times, Modern Places	Books	4	14	16	N	N	A Wonderful Roller Coaster Survey of Modernism	Other reviewers of this book have missed the point completely. A survey must do two things for the reader: (1) Be entertaining; and (2) Introduce the reader to original sources he or she may have missed along the  way.<br />On both points Conrad hits the target with near perfection. He has  written a survey that not only is impossible to put down, but also does a  splendid job of steering the reader to those original works that comprise  the background for the survey.<br />Conrad uses a unique approach in viewing  Modernism through the prism of art, rather than taking the standard  approach via science or history, giving his book a novelty missing in many  others of its kind. It is also refreshing to note that he does not take the  obligatory Post-Modern stand in relation to his material that now seems de  rigeur among the squirrels of Academia.<br />The only reason I cannot give the  book a fifth star is dur to Conrad's omission of one of the most important  American cartographers of Modernism and its roots in Technology: Lewis  Mumford. The inclusion of Mumford would have given Conrad's book the  continuity it needs with the previous centuries rather than seeing the 20th  century as a break with the past.<br />By the way, as with most survey books,  wait for the paperback, because if my experience with this tome is any  indication, you'll be buying plenty of original sources you missed before.	2000-07-15
US	52906303	R1S5OAO9XU19RP	1882926331	95524257	Orestes Brownson: Sign of Contradiction	Books	5	6	7	N	N	A Charming Look at a True American Eccentric	Orestes Brownson was a writer, philosopher,and cultural critic. He was also an Catholic during a period in this country when it was not publically orthodox to be a Catholic. Never more than an intellectual gadfly to begin with, Brownson's intellectual star faded soon after his death and he  entered a sort of intellectual purgatory, becoming the subject for obscure  Ph.D theses and academic biographers in search of a subject no one else had  tackled. Now Brownson is brought back to life in a rather charming portrait  by, all of people, a fellow teaching alumni. Orestes Brownson had taught at  Seton Hall University, in New Jersey, for a brief period of his life, as  did his current biographer, Robert Herrera. Perhaps it's the Seton Hall  connection that's responsible, but Herrera does a nice job of breathing  life back into the old boy and letting us see him warts and all. Instead of  conforming Brownson to his image, Herrera instread conforms to Brownson's  image and what emerges is a full, rich portrait of both the man and his  times, of the critic and the subject of his criticism. Another selling  point for this book, besides its brevity (Why do academics feel they have  to give us every nugget of their subject's life?), is its refusal to bend  to the politically correct winds that currently constitue the Public  Orthodoxy of our squalid intellectual times. If you love American  intellectual history (and, no, that is not an oxymoron), you will love this  charming little tome.	2000-04-24
US	52906303	ROKH5Z8WZI0GQ	1882926331	95524257	Orestes Brownson: Sign of Contradiction	Books	5	7	8	N	N	An Insightful Look at an Unjustly Neglected Philosopher	Orestes Brownson was one of the most original, and eccentric, American philosophers of the 19th century. It has been his unfortunate fate to slide into obscurity in the 20th century. Now he has been brought to vibrant life  in sn excellent new study of his life and works by R.A. Herrera. The  strength of this book lies in its interweaving of Brownson's life and  thought, taking care not to tip the scales in favor of either. The  importance of this method cannot be stressed enough because of the  obscurity into which Brownson has fallen. Herrera is not out to  rehabilitate Brownson; far from it. But he does provide an insightful new  look at this iconoclastic thinker who was always swimming against the  intellectual tides of his times. Highly recommended.	1999-07-24
US	52906303	RC4DY0IBZOU20	0684835207	373319673	Communicating in Sign: Creative Ways to Learn American Sign Language (ASL) (A Flying Hands Book)	Books	5	27	32	N	N	A Fast, Easy and Rewarding Way to Learn Sign Languge	Most of us work with or know someone who is hearing-impaired (excepting  your spouse, who only pretends to be hearing-impaired). Communicating with  that person is of utmost importance if any sort of relationship is to be  established and maintained. Unfortunately, after reading most books on sign  language, the only thing you'll learn is the signing for &quot;never  again.&quot; (The last book I read before this on the subject was the most  pointless since &quot;How to Learn German&quot; was translated into  German.) Diane Chambers has managed to write a book that not only teaches  you the basic techniques and grammar of sign language, but also does it in  a style that makes it easy to learn and absorb what is being taught. The  reader will walk away from this book with purpose and confidence rather  than a sense of ennui and the haunting feeling of having just wasted time  and money. Chambers also takes the reader into the world of deaf culture,  changing our point of view from a spectator to a participant. If you read  only one book on sign language, read this one, you'll need no other. And if  you want to communicate with a hearing-impaired person, definitely read  this one.	1998-09-05
US	52906303	R3SAZ1SUO0Y8TR	0674792769	416137169	Schopenhauer and the Wild Years of Philosophy	Books	5	6	8	N	N	A lively biography of a forgotten philosopher	Arthur Schopenhauer was an important, if now largely forgotten, philosopher of the 19th century. Counted among his disciples are such thinkers as Nietzsche and Wittgenstein, as well as Sigmund Freud, who takes a large part of his psychological theory from the writings of Schopenhauer. Safranski has written an interesting and readable volume on the man and his times. Schopenhauer's life was truly one for the books and Safranski captures the flavor, as well as the thought, of Arthur Schopenhauer. Safranski is a journalist, not an academic, which accounts for the lively style of the book and the enthusiasm for its subject. The best introduction I've seen to the man and his thought.	1998-07-03
