US	52915825	R2SCO7BG5XJNAT	0375414126	96298221	John James Audubon: The Making of an American	Books	3	50	59	N	N	Rich but poorly focused biography, short on natural history	When I saw that Pulitzer Prize winner Richard Rhodes had written a new biography of John James Audubon, I rushed to acquire it, knowing that Rhodes had a solid reputation as a good writer and a thorough historian.  While this latest book by Rhodes is certainly rich in biographical detail and presents a full picture of its subject, it is somewhat disappointing insofar as it gives relatively limited attention to what made Audubon famous-his interest and talent in natural history, particularly birds. <br /> <br />Rhodes describes the crucial events in Audubon's life very thoroughly, digging into primary documents quite ably and portraying his subject in a way that is bound to leave any reader with a full understanding of Audubon the man and his relationship with the key players in his life, including his long-suffering wife and two talented sons.  But he devotes far more attention to the earliest part of Audubon's life than he does to the artist's final years.  This is especially frustrating because Audubon's early life was beset with failures in business ventures that are really not that interesting or important to understanding the man, and the final years of his life included a pioneering trip up the Missouri River to the Yellowstone country, collecting mammals for his last published work.   <br /> <br />The most striking weakness of the book is Rhodes's limited knowledge of birds.  It is perhaps because of this deficit in the author's background that he devotes relatively little attention to the avian species which Audubon discovered and was the first to paint.  While Rhodes states that he plans to include the modern names of bird species in parentheses after the archaic names from Audubon's time for those species where this is warranted, he does so inconsistently.  He also shows little appreciation for the differing distribution of birds in Audubon's time-missing the significance, for example, of white pelicans as common birds on the Ohio River, which has not beenthe case for a century and more.  He also never points out that a number of Audubon's contemporaries gave their surnames to a number of species-including Bachman, Bonaparte, Say, Swainson, and Traill.  Having had the manuscript of the book reviewed by one or more ornithologists would have helped overcome many of these deficits. <br /> <br />Having pointed out this weakness, it is only fair for me to note that Rhodes does show an unusual appreciation for Audubon's artistry and artistic technique which is illuminating for the reader.  The book would have benefited from a sharper editing, however, to reduce its length, since it is rather laborious reading.  It would also have caught some glaring errors--such as stating that on the trip to Yellowstone, Audubon travelled from Baltimore to Cumberland, KY, then to Wheeling, WV, and Louisville.  (Obviously, he went from Baltimore to Cumberland, MD, then to Wheeling.) <br />	2005-01-11
US	52915825	R3LC3YT3E1Y33R	006621372X	41072456	The Washington Century: Three Families and the Shaping of the Nation's Capital	Books	5	23	23	N	N	Well-written & hard to put down,  mostly an "insiders'" book	This book takes an unusual approach to chronicling the 20th century history of Washington, DC, viewing it through the prism of the lives of three prominent families-the Cafritzes, real estate developers and philanthropists; the Boggses, politicians, lobbyists, and reporters; and the Hobsons, civil rights leaders and activists, both outside and inside \\"the system.\\"  Solomon had access to members of all three families, but the portraits are nonetheless critical, showing \\"warts and all\\" as well as intra-family disputes in the case of the Cafritz and Hobson families. <br /> <br />To some extent, this is a book written for Washington \\"insiders.\\"  That is, as I read the book, I wondered whether it would appeal to audiences who are less familiar with the District of Columbia and its environs.  (I have lived in the Washington metropolitan area for 25 years and worked in D.C. for 12 years.)  The Boggs family portrayal (including Hale and Lindy Boggs, both prominent members of the House of Representatives; Cokie and Steve Roberts, both nationally known reporters; and Tommy Boggs, an influential federal-level lobbyist) is apt to be of interest to the \\"outside the Beltway\\" audience, but the depictions of the Cafritz and Hobson families, whose sphere of influence has primarily been \\"inside the Beltway,\\" may be less interesting to audiences less familiar with local history and geography. <br /> <br />Solomon has truly mined an impressive lode of documents and interviews in assembling this book, which has considerable \\"human interest\\" appeal.  I found the book so captivating and well written that I had difficulty putting it down, and completed it in three days over the Christmas holiday.  It is both well-written and compelling.  It presents a useful chronicle of a number of developments-including the decline of bipartisan cooperation, the growing importance of money in Washington politics, and the decline of the middle class as a residential group inside the Beltway. <br />	2004-12-29
US	52915825	R2NAU9U9PW8IH	1400040310	845366857	His Excellency: George Washington	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Fascinating portrayal of Washington as human being, not icon	This is an engaging biography that truly takes the icon off the pedestal and chronicles the life of a human being.  On finishing the book, I really had a better appreciation and understanding of George Washington the man.  To some extent, he resembles David Donald's portrayal of Lincoln as a \\"man on the make,\\" an ambitious individual bound to make something of himself.  But as with Lincoln, Washington had a number of fortunate breaks, especially in the Revolution, and Ellis appropriately characterizes Washington \\"destiny's child.\\" <br /> <br />Any biographer makes decisions about how much emphasis or attention is given to selected events, periods, and individuals in an individual's life.  Here, one is more aware that certain individuals, periods, and events are given less attention.  For one thing, the focus is on last 25 years of his life-his childhood, youth, and the French and Indian War period get relatively short shrift.  In addition, the focus is also clearly concentrated on Washington himself-most of the \\"supporting cast,\\" including Martha and the other founding fathers, get relatively little attention.  (While Hamilton gets a good deal of attention, Jefferson and Madison lesser attention, Adams and Franklin almost none.)  <br /> <br />Ellis accesses papers that have not helped shape previous biographies, and his portrayal of Washington is far richer as a result.  The book presents an extended discussion of his relationship to his slaves and to slavery as an institution as well as the reasoning that led to his manumission of his slaves at his life's end-he was unique among Southerners of the founding generation in this regard.  Ellis also deftly critiques Washington's style and decisions as a military leader and as a chief executive. <br /> <br />On completion of the book, I found myself wanting more, which is at the same time both a criticism of the book and perhaps the highest compliment one can pay an author. <br />	2004-12-29
US	52915825	R24WI377TG4363	0743254686	98660942	We Are Lincoln Men: Abraham Lincoln and His Friends	Books	5	16	17	N	Y	A Revealing Exploration of a Little Examined Side of Lincoln	Yet another book about Lincoln?  David Donald's \\"We Are Lincoln Men\\" more than justifies itself by presenting new insights into the 16th President's relationships with his six closest friends.  In doing so, it demonstrates just how revealing a political leader's friendships can be.  This book is a worthy successor to Donald's stellar biography, \\"Lincoln\\"; like that book, this one is captivating and a joy to read, even when presenting-as it rarely does-pieces of Lincoln lore which are fairly well known.  No matter what the reader already knows about Lincoln or his times, he or she is bound to gain new perspectives by reading this volume.<br />The book begins with a brief discussion of friendship, and presents Aristotle's basic typology of friendships (\\"enjoyable,\\" \\"useful,\\" and \\"perfect\\" or \\"complete\\").  The introductory chapter looks at Lincoln's boyhood and youth-concluding that \\"Lincoln never had a chum\\" and noting that \\"by temperament...Lincoln grew up as a man of great reserve.\\"  <br />The book then proceeds with chapter-length examinations of his six key friendships.  Each was unique, in part because of the personalities involved and because of when the friendships first developed.   While Joshua Speed and Lincoln were remarkably close as young men in Illinois-to the point where some have speculated that they might have had a homoerotic relationship (a point Duncan dismisses)-they grew apart primarily because of political differences as they aged.  \\"Billy\\" Herndon, Lincoln's principal law partner and eventual biographer, remained in Lincoln's shadow for a variety of reasons, including his radicalism, his inability to get along with Mary Lincoln, and his alcoholism.  Orville Browning, an Illinois Whig who was appointed to fill Stephen Douglas's unexpired US Senate term on Douglas's death, was an ally and confidant during the early years of Lincoln's Presidency; the two drifted apart partly because of Browning's importuning Lincoln for political appointments andpartly because of growing political differences.  Lincoln's Secretary of State, William Seward, came into the Cabinet with a relatively low opinion of the President-Seward firmly believed that he should have been elected instead of Lincoln-but gradually grew into his closest ally and most loyal supporter in the Cabinet.  Lincoln's two closest aides, John Nicolay and John Hay, were also loyal supporters. But partly because of the age difference-they were young enough to be his sons-they never grew out of the role of understudies to Lincoln and never became true confidants.<br />Despite its focus on these six men, the book also explores Lincoln's relationships with a variety of other figures, including Judge David Davis, who was instrumental in getting the Presidential nomination, and Ward Hill Lamon, a long-standing ally who often doubled as Lincoln's body guard.  It is remarkably compact, just over 200 pages long, and can almost be read in a single sitting.	2003-11-16
US	52915825	R3PQJNBDTGH4TU	0446532231	628954405	Dude, Where's My Country?	Books	2	4	6	N	N	Disappointingly Sophomoric	Michael Moore's fame has apparently gone to his head, since he has produced one of the more poorly reasoned books of liberal advocacy that I've read in years.  (The Oscar speech apparently persuaded him that he was a political pundit.)  Yes, the book has flashes of his famous wit (e.g., \\"George of Arabia,\\" \\"Jesus W. Christ,\\" \\"Leave No Billionaire Behind,\\" etc.).  The first chapter (focusing on the Saudi ties of the Bush family) presents some important information about which most Americans should be aware.<br />But most of the book is amazingly shallow and poorly presented.  So we really live in a liberal country after all?  Tell that to those of us who still call ourselves liberals and have barely weathered the last 24 years.  (Moore actually has the audacity to characterize Richard Nixon as a \\"liberal\\" President!)  So the best option for those of us who want to liberate the White House from the clutches of W and Company is Oprah Winfrey?  Give me a break--why not try Leno or Letterman while we're at it!?  It's \\"liberals\\" of his persuasion who gave W the White House in 2000 by supporting Ralph Nader.<br />In the words of Ricky Riccardo, \\"Mike, you sure have some 'splainin' to do!\\"  Stick to documentaries and leave political analysis to those with less naivete and more wordly wisdom--and to those willing to do some real reasoning rather than publishing what comes straight out of the word processor.	2003-11-13
US	52915825	R2KW7YFA4SJE4H	0582245591	319500861	Kaiser Wilhelm II	Books	4	29	29	N	N	Excellent political science &amp; history, less so biography	Christopher Clark's remarkably concise biography of Wilhelm II, one of the more controversial figures of German history, very ably presents the last Kaiser in the context of his times and his political position.  It is a well written work of political science and history, with incisive analysis of how the Kaiser operated within the constraints of the powers he enjoyed as emperor. <br />Since this is a volume in a series entitled \\"Profiles in Power,\\" it is perhaps not surprising that its focus is primarily the 30 years in which Wilhelm reigned: 1888-1918.  Because of this, as a biography, the book is somewhat less satisfying, in that it gives relatively limited attention to the first 29 years of his life and to the last 23 years of his life (a chapter each for these two periods as compared to 6 chapters for the period of his reign and a summary chapter).  The book presents a relatively limited portrait of Wilhelm as an individual, except insofar as his personal strengths and weaknesses affected his role as monarch.  Because his personality affected his rule so greatly, this seems a greater deficit here than in other political biographies.<br />Nonetheless, the book presents a great deal of information in a relatively short scope-261 pages, including footnotes.  Among the topics the book explores: Wilhelm's difficult relations with his father and his closer relationship to his grandfather, Wilhelm I; the challenges posed by his dual role as German Kaiser and King of Prussia; his difficult position between the Reichstag and Cabinet, on one hand, and the German military, on the other; the divide between the early years of his reign, when he chose to intervene more often in politics and governance of Germany, and the latter years, when a combination of World War I and his seeming reduced interest seemed to lessen his interventions; his role as Commander in Chief of the German army; and, of course, the question of his culpability for the First World War, which Clark handles especially well.  He also addresses the issue of whether Wilhelm's reign was, as many historians claim, largely a personalized exercise of power.  Many of these topics are presented with alternate interpretations by other historians, and the author's synthesis or conclusions.  This is certainly one of the most balanced portrayals of Wilhelm I have read.<br />This biography is bound to appeal to aficionados of German and modern European history as well as those interested in the causes of World War I.  It both was quite informative and held my interest throughout.	2003-11-11
US	52915825	R15SRDJA3DALFA	0316105848	755102072	Flyboys: A True Story of Courage	Books	3	61	78	N	N	A Compelling Story That Needs Telling--Only Poorly Presented	Having thoroughly enjoyed James Bradley's well-written book about Iwo Jima, &quot;Flags of Our Fathers,&quot; I picked up a copy of his newest book, &quot;Flyboys,&quot; soon after it first became available.  Without doubt, the central story of &quot;Flyboys&quot; (the Japanese army's butchery of 8 American POWs on the remote island of Chichi Jima and the narrow escape of then Navy pilot George Bush) is a compelling one and deserves the attention that the new book brings to it.  The disappointment is that this book is far more diffuse and less focussed than the earlier Bradley book, and has some rather troublesome biases.  (Perhaps this indicates that Bradley's co-author on the earlier book was more instrumental to its success than I had realized.)  Because of the lack of focus, the portrayals of the 8 American POWs who were killed by the Japanese is far less captivating than that of the flag-raisers at Iwo Jima in Bradley's earlier book.<br />&quot;Flyboys&quot; offers important insights into the American-Japanese confrontation in the Pacific, going all the way back to Commodore Matthew Perry's &quot;opening&quot; of Japan to America in the 1850s.  Reflecting the influence of John Dower, author of the Pulitzer-Prize-winning &quot;Embracing Defeat&quot; and a former professor of Bradley's, this book provides a sensitive analysis of the central influences that affected Japanese-American relations both prior to and during World War II.<br />Besides its lack of focus, perhaps the most disappointing aspect of &quot;Flyboys&quot; is Bradley's rather tortured attempt to give balance to his presentation by likening Japanese atrocities to the darker side of America's and her allies' behavior in the war.  Certainly, neither side was blameless, but Bradley seems to overlook Japan's culpability in attacking Pearl Harbor, in committing racist barbarism toward the civilian populations of China and Korea, and in its unparalleled atrocities against Allied POWs.<br />Less bothersome but still objectionable is the rather strange slant Bradley's narrative presents on some major historic figures.  He keeps referring to FDR as &quot;the Dutchman&quot;--a term I've never seen any other historian use--and insists on calling Gen. Curtis LeMay &quot;Curtis&quot; throughout the narrative.<br />All in all, the book is worth reading, but hardly measures up to &quot;Flags of Our Fathers&quot; and the other recent tours de force on World War II (including Hampton Sides' &quot;Ghost Soldiers,&quot; Michael Beschloss's &quot;The Conquerors,&quot; and Iris Chang's &quot;The Rape of Nanking&quot;).	2003-10-29
US	52915825	R6QAT8DU57BUJ	0679427570	210666264	Harp Song for a Radical: The Life and Times of Eugene Victor Debs	Books	4	14	14	N	N	A lyrical history of the early American labor movement	Looking at the other customer reviews for this unusual book, I doubt that the reviewers either read the introduction or that they actually read more than a few pages.  This is not a conventional biography.  Nor is it a completed, polished work.  Marguerite Young died when her biography of Debs was incomplete and very much a work in progress.  Had she lived to complete it, it would have been a fuller picture of his life.  But her idiosyncratic approach would still have colored every page.<br />It is also helpful to understand that in writing one of her previous books--&quot;Angel in the Forest&quot;--Young started out writing a lengthy poem, then converted it into a prose work.  (The Debs book is in some ways reminiscent of Stephen Vincent Benet's &quot;John Brown's Body,&quot; only Young employed blank verse.)<br />The Debs book has been described as Whitmanesque, and it is reminiscent of both the poetry and prose of that pillar of American literature.  As both a poet and prose writer, Young takes a lyrical, almost stream of consciousness approach in this book.  (Her work has also been likened to James Joyce's--a comparison she apparently disliked, though it strikes me as appropriate.)  Those who criticize the book for its rambling style seem to miss this point.<br />Others have suggested that the book might better be entitled &quot;The Times and Life of Eugene Victor Debs.&quot;  In her unconventional approach, Young does seem to focus more on a history of the times in which Debs lived than on the man himself.  The book pays particular attention to the socioeconomic and political developments which shaped the industrial revolution in this country, particularly the American labor movement.  The author is at her best when documenting industrial accidents and working conditions and in describing the dominance of American &quot;captains of industry&quot; over both the economy and the American government at all levels.<br />Those who find Part One of the book--the first 178 pages--difficult to read might be advised to read the first 21 pages, then skip to Part Two, which is more focused on Debs and his times.  Part One of the book admittedly becomes bogged down in describing utopian socialists--it gives far too much attention to the obscure German immigrant socialist Wilhelm Weitling as well as delving into the detailed history of early Mormonism, a topic which apparently fascinated the author because Brigham Young was one of her ancestors.<br />Part Two of the book is also sweeping in its scope, but it provides a memorable description of the early decades of Debs' life (with emphasis on 1855-1877), tracing the emigration of his parents to the U.S. from Alsace Lorraine, describing the influence of his parents' radicalism on his own personal beliefs, and detailing his work as a railroad laborer and union organizer.  It does this against the backdrop of the Civil War, the Lincoln Assassination, Reconstruction, the Indian Wars, national politics, and labor developments, culminating in the violent railroad strikes of 1877.  Given Young's and Debs's Hoosier origins, it devotes a lot of attention to Indiana, particularly the poet James Whitcomb Riley.  (The book started out as a Riley biography, but Young became fascinated with Debs and decided to rework it into Debs's life story.)<br />This is not a book for the casual reader--it is a demanding book to get through.  But that understood, it is a worthwhile investment of time and beautifully written.  On completing the book, I found myself regretting that Marguerite Young did not live to complete this imperfect yet remarkable work of American history and literature.st 178 pages--difficult to read might be advised to read the first 21 pages, then skip to Part Two, which is more focused on Debs and his times.  Part One of the book admittedly becomes bogged down in describing utopian socialists--it gives far too much attention to the obscure German immigrant socialist Wilhelm Weitling as well as delving into the detailed history of early Mormonism, a topic which apparently fascinated the author because Brigham Young was one of her ancestors.<br />Part Two of the book is also sweeping in its scope, but it provides a memorable description of the early decades of Debs' life (with emphasis on 1855-1877), tracing the emigration of his parents to the U.S. from Alsace Lorraine, describing the influence of his parents' radicalism on his own personal beliefs, and detailing his work as a railroad laborer and union organizer.  It does this against the backdrop of the Civil War, the Lincoln Assassination, Reconstruction, the Indian Wars, national politics, and labor developments, culminating in the violent railroad strikes of 1877.  Given Young's and Debs's Hoosier origins, it devotes a lot of attention to Indiana, particularly the poet James Whitcomb Riley.  (The book started out as a Riley biography, but Young became fascinated with Debs and decided to rework it into Debs's life story.) <br />This is not a book for the casual reader--it is a demanding book to get through.  But that understood, it is a worthwhile investment of time and beautifully written.  On completing the book, I found myself regretting that Marguerite Young did not live to complete this imperfect yet remarkable work of American history and literature.	2002-12-01
US	52915825	R2357W5S2ZT0T3	0195135210	436402699	Crossroads of Freedom: Antietam (Pivotal Moments in American History)	Books	3	8	11	N	N	Disappointing--not up to the author's standards	I have read and enjoyed a number of James McPherson's books and even heard him lecture at Princeton alumni events.  So you could count me as a &quot;fan,&quot; and I rushed to order this new book about Antietam as soon as it appeared.  In this case, I wish I had actually had a chance to view the book before I bought it, since it is not in my opinion up to the author's usual standards for probing history.  This book purportedly discusses the battle of Antietam, but only one brief chapter of five actually addresses the battle.  The book is as much about the politics of the Emancipation Proclamation as it is about Antietam, so if that topic is of interest to you, by all means buy it.<br />This is not to say that the book is not worth reading.  It does a good job of setting Antietam in context, but that is not what I was seeking.  It is extremely general in focus, and the brief text is interrupted by illustrations which further reduce the actual narrative and analysis.  In my opinion, Steven Sears's &quot;Landscape Turned Red&quot; remains a far better treatment of this seminal battle.	2002-10-06
US	52915825	RDR31G2ZMJXOC	067974830X	23862310	Nathan Bedford Forrest: A Biography	Books	4	8	9	N	N	Well-written, full account of Forrest's life, yet apologetic	Anyone wanting to learn about the colorful life of this memorable Confederate general, from his hard-scrabble youth through his slave-dealer days to his brilliant work as a tactician to his infamous involvement with the KuKlux Klan, will enjoy this well-written biography.  Although a colorful and captivating figure, Forrest had his clear limitations--he was at times temperamental, cruel, violent, and racist.  <br />Hurst spends a great deal of time explaining Forrest's motivations, and does a generally convincing job.  But he also passes too much off to Forrest's being &quot;a product of his times.&quot;  While I am impatient with those who interpret history with the retrospective blinders of current beliefs and values, Forrest undoubtedly badly mistreated black people through most of his life, and went far beyond what many of his contemporary Confederate officers did in this regard.  (Neither Lee nor Jackson nor Longstreet, to name but a few, had such a terrible history of relations with blacks before, during, or after the war; Forrest's relative cruelty and inhumanity might be explained but not excused in terms of his class origins and the region in which he lived.)<br />The book is a joy to read, however, and presents a full narrative of virtually every aspect of Forrest's life.  The depiction of his unique military career is especially well done--though sadly lacking in maps, as most other reviewers point out.  (The paperback edition also lacks any illustrations, except a frontispiece posed portrait of the general.)  Almost equally interesting are the accounts of his involvement in the slave trade, politics, business, and the Klan.<br />The author has given us not only the best recent biography of Forrest, but also a fine treatment of the Civil War in what was then the American Southwest--the Tennessee-Mississippi-Alabama-Georgia theater.  Even for readers with relatively little interest in the Civil War per se, this is a thorough, well-written account of a period and region important in American history.	2002-10-05
US	52915825	RP2LPN7I98WHX	0375421173	311776250	Mrs. Paine's Garage: And the Murder of John F. Kennedy	Books	5	18	27	N	Y	Captivating Inquiry into Good and Evil	This excellent inquiry into good and evil in an historical context could not be more timely in the wake of the events of September 11, 2001.  I just finished reading this absorbing book in a single sitting--it is both well-written and captivating enough that I hardly noticed the time passing.<br />As an idealist, a humanitarian, and a Quaker, Ruth Paine was in a truly unique position to relate to Marina and Lee Harvey Oswald and their children in 1963.  Driven by both a desire to avail herself of an opportunity to learn Russian and an empathy for Marina's plight as an emigre with an abusive husband, Ruth Paine welcomed this troubled couple into the bosom of her family, including her two young children.  To say that her trust was betrayed by both Marina and Lee is an understatement.  Marina knew about Lee's attempt to murder another public official before JFK and of his possession of a powerful rifle while living in the Paine household, but never revealed either to Paine.  Paine went so far as to even find a job for Oswald--with fatal implications, in the Texas School Book Depository.<br />Mallon presents the facts of what happened in the Paine home but also asks critical questions about what the rather naive but charitable Paines knew or should have known up to November 22, when Oswald left their home in the morning with an apparent plan to murder the President.  Ruth Paine comes across as perhaps too trusting but also relatively pure of heart; asked about whether she harbors anger or resentment toward Oswald and about what she would ask him in an afterlife, she responds that she got over the anger soon after the event and would want to know \\"Where are you now in your learning, and your understanding of life?\\"<br />Mallon has less empathy for Paine's ex-husband Michael, who apparently knew in advance that Oswald had the rifle that would be used to kill JFK and never revealed it until 1993--30 years after the assassination.  It is hard to fathom how Michael, even asRuth's estranged husband, would have so little regard for her safety or that of his children, who lived in the house with the Oswalds--much less the safety of society in general.  Mallon speculates that Michael might have succumbed to a family tradition of strangeness--his forbears include Ralph Waldo Emerson and another man intensely interested in ESP and the paranormal.  But the book never explains Michael's motives as it convincingly captures Ruth's.<br />It is unfortunate that so many other reviews of this fine book get caught up in the never-ending disputes about whether there was a conspiracy to kill JFK or whether Oswald acted alone.  Regardless of where the truth lies in these debates--and I for one believe that we will never completely know what really happened--this book warrants the consideration of thoughtful readers for its many positive attributes.	2002-10-05
US	52915825	RUNLMA91F5U3D	0060193638	220335700	Gettysburg: A Testing of Courage	Books	5	43	46	N	Y	Exceptional lucid military history for all levels of readers	I have spent a large part of this summer reading a number of the histories of the battle of Gettysburg that have appeared over the past decade, and I have to say that I have read none that even approaches this wonderful book in quality, clarity, and comprehensiveness.  Unlike many books that focus on a single battle or campaign, this one never bogs down in details, yet it provides a sufficient level of descriptive information to give the reader a true feeling of first-hand experience.  Trudeau demonstrates a fine command of not just military details but also the English language.  Unlike many military histories, this book also provides important insights into the civilian experience during the battle--for after all, through most of those three days in July 1863, Gettsburg was truly a town under enemy occupation.  In addition, it presents the experience of all levels of soldier partipants--from the lowliest enlisted man to the high command.  His obvious familiarity with and skillful use of contemporary material make the narrative seem all the more realistic, too.<br />The book offers a wealth of superior battlefield maps, charting all but the most minor incidents, and thus gives the reader a constant reminder of where the action is taking place and the &quot;lay of the land.&quot;  Trudeau also does a laudable job of relating what was happening at the same time on different parts of this extensive battlefield, by interspersing short contemporaneous passages on events from all over the area.  He presents the battle in context, too--commencing the narrative just after Robert E. Lee's signal victory at Chancellorsville and carrying on to Lincoln's address at the commemoration of the national cemetery.<br />This is a book which should appeal to both the general reader, with minimal background on Civil War history or Gettysburg in particular, as well as the more informed reader, since it offers new perspectives on a number of the key controversies surrounding the battle.  Trudeau seems to speculate that this was Lee's battle to lose--and his loose battlefield supervision and reluctant corps commanders lost it because Lee delegated leadership too extensively.  He also gives a convincing explanation of why George Meade did not pursue Lee closely after the battle.  The book offers a balanced portrayal of events from both Union and Confederate perspectives, too.<br />I have only one minor criticism of the book.  It is rich in maps, but offers no photographs or other illustrations, despite the fact that there is a wealth of such material available.  The dust jacket of the book has a formal grouping of random portraits of contemporary soldiers from the George Eastman House, but there is no indication that any of these men fought at Gettysburg.  I almost hesitate to offer this criticism, but the general reader is going to miss this dimension of the battle in this otherwise excellent history.Trudeau seems to speculate that this was Lee's battle to lose--and his loose battlefield supervision and reluctant corps commanders lost it because Lee delegated leadership too extensively.  He also gives a convincing explanation of why George Meade did not pursue Lee closely after the battle.  The book offers a balanced portrayal of events from both Union and Confederate perspectives, too.<br />I have only one minor criticism of the book.  It is rich in maps, but offers no photographs or other illustrations, despite the fact that there is a wealth of such material available.  The dust jacket of the book has a formal grouping of random portraits of contemporary soldiers from the George Eastman House, but there is no indication that any of these men fought at Gettysburg.  I almost hesitate to offer this criticism, but the general reader is going to miss this dimension of the battle in this otherwise excellent history.	2002-09-02
US	52915825	R3BO3CCARDZS9I	0679768173	597628155	The Kidnapping of Edgardo Mortara	Books	5	10	14	N	N	Insightful, Balanced Account of Event in Italian History	David Keretz is an American historian of Italy, who also happens to be Jewish and the son of an American army chaplain who helped liberate Italy during World War II. He presents one of the most sensationalistically portrayed events of the mid-19th century in Italy--the kidnapping of a 6-year-old Jewish boy from his parents by agents of the then temporal as well as spiritual leader of much of Italy, Pope Pius IX--an event which divided Catholics, Protestants, and Jews around the world as well traditionalists and nationalist-liberals in Italy. He recounts and analyzes the story in a remarkably balanced fashion, helping the reader appreciate each side of the controversy. Yet he also presents the Mortara family, whose suffering was not limited to the kidnapping and the failure to ever retrieve their son and sibling Edgardo from the Catholic Church, in a way that is evocative of the book of Job. The book uses the Mortara incident as a prism through which to view the Italian Risorgiomento, the ultra-conservative philosophy of Pius IX, and the emerging forces of liberalism in Western Europe. One of the author's central theses is that the Mortara kidnapping was a major factor in the demise of the Pope's political power and the unification of Italy. One of the many fascinating aspects of the book is how Italian anti-Semitism contrasted with that in France and Germany; the Italians seem to have preferred that the Jews convert and be assimilated, and had no belief in the racist and Volkisch ideologies that best the French and the Germans.	2001-08-27
US	52915825	R3D9TLTGDYU3YS	0195076729	982781662	The Long Nineteenth Century: A History of Germany, 1780-1918	Books	3	14	17	N	Y	The LONG 19th Century Indeed!--Too Narrowly Focused	I picked up this book, intrigued by the slice of German history that it took--from roughly the time of Frederick the Great to the end of World War I, a clearly seminal time in the history of the part of Central Europe that became the German Empire.  This was a time populated by many of the major figures in German history, among them Frederick, Bismarck, Wilhelm I and II, Nietzsche, Wagner, Marx, Hauptmann, Fontane, the Mann brothers, and others.  But at most, many of these key players seem to have walk-on roles in Blackbourn's history.<br />Blackbourn seems to have bent over backwards to avoid writing history along the lines of the &quot;great man&quot; model.  In essence, he has written a history of Germany that downplays the political and cultural, and emphasizes instead the sociological and economic.  He focuses on the Industrial Revolution, class divisions, agriculture, imports and exports, etc.  He neglects the rise of political parties and the evolution of parliamentary democracy, and gives short shrift to the dominance of Prussia over the other smaller German states.  He seems to downplay the power exerted by the Prussian General Staff, both before and after Unification.  After 1871, the relationship of Germany with Austria-Hungary, the other major German-speaking power, largely drops out of the discussion, though it continued to be crucial thoughout the period.  International relations generally gets minimal attention.<br />The book is, to say the least, a chore to read.  It is downright boring in places, only occasionally engaging.  While one certainly learns something by plodding through it, it seems to come at a great price.  This is history for the academic audience, not the general reader.	2001-07-30
US	52915825	R21GILWS3N053X	0684862948	749525595	LINCOLN'S MEN: How President Lincoln Became Father to an Army and a Nation	Books	5	3	3	N	Y	Very enjoyable: side of Civil War history not before plumbed	Given the mountain of books about either Abraham Lincoln or the American Civil War, one would think that someone would have come up with the idea of exploring the relationship between Lincoln and the rank-and-file Union soldier.  But Davis is apparently the first to do so, and he handles the topic in a way that is bound to delight anyone interested in either topic, from the novice to the expert.  <br />He has obviously thoroughly researched the wealth of letters, diaries, and other orginal sources that are available; his points are well documented.  Moreover, he avoids repeating himself by either using the same source over and over again (as Ken Burns did in the Civil War series and Bruce Catton tended to do in his otherwise fascinating histories), nor does he pile up so much evidence on a single point that the reader becomes bored.  <br />He explores the Lincoln-enlisted man relationship from a variety of angles, ranging from Lincoln's dismissal of the highly popular McClellan to his liberal use of his pardoning prerogative for wayward soldiers to veterans' attitudes in the 1864 Presidential election to his assassination.  He frames much of the book in terms of Parson Weems's classic biography of George Washington, which depicted GW as &quot;the Father of His Country,&quot; and suggests that the book had an early, perhaps subconscious effect on Lincoln, giving him a model to adopt when he became President--and makes a plausible case.<br />He also demonstrates that Lincoln very consciously invested in promoting a positive image of himself with the Union rank and file.  Lincoln was very aware of how his position as President affected everyday Americans, and became (according to Davis) the first President to make an effort to be seen by ordinary citizens, especially Union soldiers.   <br />This is a well-written, enjoyable book, satisfying in every sense.  It was truly hard to put down.	2001-07-30
US	52915825	R27F62OIG4FNNK	0198205600	671145815	Backing Hitler: Consent and Coercion in Nazi Germany (Oxford in Asia Historical Reprints)	Books	5	19	22	N	N	Fascinating exploration of public opinion in Nazi Germany	In this relatively brief but searching analysis of how much the German public knew about the underside of the Third Reich--from violations of civil liberties to euthanasia and the Holocaust--Gellately demonstrates fairly conclusively that there was a fair amount of both media publicity and common knowledge about Nazi excesses. Far from being reluctant to have the public know about their misdeeds, Hitler and the Nazi leadership are shown to have been concerned about how the public perceived what they were doing and to have carefully manipulated public opinion in the process. <br />The destruction of civil liberties and the rule of law from the Wilhelmine and Weimar eras was depicted as restoration of &quot;law and order,&quot; in terms that are hauntingly reminiscent of those used by some of the more extreme American proponents of &quot;law and order.&quot; The concentration camps during the prewar era were portrayed as places for reforming and reeducating those who for one reason or another had gone astray politically or socially; in this sense, the common threads of totalitarianism are evident, as the Third Reich sounds similar to Stalin's Russia and Mao's China.<br />Gellately argues persuasively that there were three distinct phases to how the Nazis portrayed themselves and in the degree to which they resorted to radical means of controlling society. The prewar era showed much more concern about public opinion and rationality. Once the War began, the methods became more radical and the arguments to support them became more extreme. (As others have also shown, Gellately posits that this is when the genocide against the Jews really went into high gear.) In the final months of the Reich, literally &quot;anything goes&quot; became the attitude and relatively little concern was given to public opinion--though Gellately argues that the majority of Germans stuck with Hitler to the very end.<br />Especially intriguing are the author's review of a number of Gestapo fileson individuals who were accused of betraying the regime in one way or another. From an admittedly limited sample that he has thoroughly analyzed, Gellately demonstrates that the Gestapo and other police agencies had the active cooperation of the citizenry in ferreting out offenders. Indeed, their sources were overwhelmingly citizen complaints, most of them quite open and non-anonymous. But the specifics of a number of these cases are both fascinating and disturbing in the extreme. Clearly, a number of citizens used the Gestapo and the mechanisms of terror to get even with innocent people who had never violated the law.<br />Gellately's final synoptic chapter is the best part of the book and is especially well written. (In fact, it might warrant being read first.) The rest of the book, especially the early chapters, is somewhat turgid and difficult going; one wishes that it had been written and edited as well as the end. But this is a book that will clearly repay the time spent on it. I doubt that general readers new to the subject would find it as useful as those with more background, however.	2001-07-19
US	52915825	RGKF59GF375ZS	0395867606	329852487	Controversies and Commanders of the Civil War: Dispatches from the Army of the Potomac	Books	5	5	5	N	Y	An enjoyable collection of essays on &quot;Mr. Lincoln's Army&quot;	Sears offers a fascinating assortment of brief essays on the Union's Army of the Potomac and some of the storms that swirled around a number of its commanding generals from the beginning of the Civil War to its end.  Each of the essays is brief enough to be enjoyed in one sitting, and offers some fascinating new insights into aspects of the Civil War in the East.  Even where he is covering ground that has been well covered before--e.g., Lee's &quot;Lost Order&quot; before the Battle of Antietam--Sears manages to introduce some new information and fresh insights.  <br />Anyone who has done much reading about the Civil War knows that one of the major challenges confronting Lincoln as commander-in-chief was finding a dependable general to put in charge of the Army of the Potomac.  This volume reviews some of the problem generals with whom he had to deal--including McClellan (a Sears specialty) and Joe Hooker (whom Sears defends in an unconventional review of Hooker at Chancellorsville).  But the book also goes below the command level to look at colorful characters like Dan Sickles and Phil Sheridan.  Especially engaging are the essays dealing with the court martials and less than honorable discharges of generals who were unfairly treatged for a variety of reasons.<br />While to some degree, these essays are &quot;insider baseball&quot; and would be best appreciated by readers with background on the Civil War, they stand alone and can be appreciated by almost anyone with an interest in the era.	2001-07-19
US	52915825	R33MYA3I8YJS29	0312177194	161775757	Wild Man: The Life and Times of Daniel Ellsberg	Books	5	12	18	N	N	Revealing portrayal of complicated public figure &amp; his times	Rarely have I read a biography that gave me so much insight into the life and personality of a major public figure. Wells is to be commended for a searching portrait of an amazingly complex personality. He clearly did his homework, conducting numerous interviews of Ellsberg himself and many of the living sources on him, including his family, friends, and colleagues. <br />No one can leave this book without a better appreciation of the complex influences that caused Ellsberg to release the Pentagon Papers; this was clearly an act of personal courage, but perhaps also motivated by some element of self-aggrandizement. (Then again, unless one takes an extremely simplistic view of history, whose motives are ever pure and unadulterated?) Wells would have us wonder if Ellsberg's career had continued on its upwards trajectory as a &quot;supergenius&quot; and insider at RAND, he would ever have released the Papers; I believe that diminishes Ellsberg's anti-war motivation far too much, however. <br />And the book does seem, if anything, rather personally biased against Ellsberg, whom the author seems to delight in describing at great length in not terribly attractive terms. Indeed, whenever Wells faces any ambiguity about his subject, he seems to consciously choose not to give Ellsberg the benefit of the doubt. Wells also does a great deal of overtly interjecting his own biases and parenthetical observations into the narrative, which is more than a little disconcerting. Finally, the choice of the title seems both unfortunate and somewhat sensationalistic. <br />But this is probably the fullest picture we will ever have of this man. Perhaps most useful of all is the book's detailed narrative of the copying and release of the Pentagon Papers and the Nixon Administration's almost comic attempt--comic if it weren't so frightening--to stop Ellsberg and his comrades at any cost. The ultimate irony, one can infer from Wells, is that while Ellsberg's release of the Papers had far less impact on ending the Vietnam War than he had hoped, the Nixon Administration's attempt to wreak vengeance on him and stop his antiwar activities probably led to Nixon's demise in the Watergate mess.	2001-07-10
US	52915825	R1QVMVJWNM8WOJ	0060187239	630454514	April 1865: The Month That Saved America	Books	3	8	14	N	Y	Disappointingly Discursive	If you come to this book expecting it to be an in-depth history of the events of 1865--including the capture of Richmond, the surrenders of Lee and Johnston, and the assassination of Lincoln--you are in for a disappointment as I was.  This book violates the &quot;truth in packaging&quot; principle, in that it really does not so much focus on April 1865 per se, as use it as a prism through which to view the entire Civil War and, to a lesser extent, Reconstruction.  Because of this, the treatment of many of the events of 1865 is superficial and unsatisfying.  And for some reason Winik feels compelled to present thumbnail biographies of most of the players--including, for some reason, Abraham Lincoln.  (If a reader doesn't know the essential facts of the life of Lincoln, she or he is unlikely to pick up a book entitled &quot;April 1865&quot;!)  The book does offer some insights and new material--especially good is the treatment of the debate in the South over whether to use slaves as soldiers in the Confederate army and then, whether to emancipate them or not.  But on the whole, this book seemed like a journey over well-travelled roads, and one often handled better by historians like Bruce Catton and Shelby Foote.	2001-07-03
US	52915825	R4GCH0ZQPFZAN	0679640908	623951706	The German Empire, 1870-1918 (Modern Library Chronicles)	Books	5	6	6	N	Y	Informative Essay on Germany's Emergence as Great Power	Michael Stuermer has written an informative but concise historical essay on Germany during the time it first emerged as a unified nation and Great Power under Bismarck down to the Treaty of Versailles following World War I. For a book this brief, it is remarkable in its scope, providing character studies of major figures like Bismarck and Wilhelm II, insights into socioeconomic and cultural developments during the period, a good analysis of German politics and political forces, and a useful synopsis of international developments in Europe. For those who lack a background on Germany prior to the Weimar Republic and the Third Reich and are curious about how this period shaped those later times, reading this book should be a quite worthwhile investment. While this book clearly lacks the depth that more advanced readers might be seeking, it should even prove rewarding to them in its attempt to examine the period in a capsulized review.	2001-07-03
US	52915825	R1EXNMBGKK89MR	0679640908	623951706	The German Empire, 1870-1918 (Modern Library Chronicles)	Books	5	0	0	N	Y	Informative Essay on Germany's Emergence as Great Power	Michael Stuermer has written an informative but concise historical essay on Germany during the time it first emerged as a unified nation and Great Power under Bismarck down to the Treaty of Versailles following World War I.  (I am unsure why the title of the book has it ending in 1914, when it clearly carries forward to 1919--admittedly a minor criticism.)  For a book this brief, it is remarkable in its scope, providing character studies of major figures like Bismarck and Wilhelm II, insights into socioeconomic and cultural developments during the period, a good analysis of German politics and political forces, and a useful synopsis of international developments in Europe.  For those who lack a background on Germany prior to the Weimar Republic and the Third Reich and are curious about how this period shaped those later times, reading this book should be a quite worthwhile investment.  While this book clearly lacks the depth that more advanced readers might be seeking, it should even prove rewarding to them in its attempt to examine the period in a capsulized review.	2001-07-03
US	52915825	R18DYZ607AZ40Z	0679640924	743193338	The Catholic Church: A Short History (Modern Library Chronicles)	Books	4	45	50	N	Y	A remarkable achievement, if rather biased	When I purchased Hans Kueng's concise history of the Catholic Church, I was skeptical about whether 2000 years of history could be reasonably compressed into a volume as short as this.  Yet as a Protestant from a family with a long Catholic heritage, I was eager to try it, and I do not for a moment regret reading this pithy, informative gem.  Kueng really does trace Catholic history from the time of Christ--exploring what the church actually constituted in the early days of Christianity, how the church and its governing structure including the Papacy evolved, why the great schism between Eastern and Western Catholicism occurred, the historical frauds perpetrated by some medieval Popes in their efforts to consolidate power, the merits of the case of the Reformation leaders like Luther and Calvin, and the emergence of the modern absolutist Papacy from the time of Pius IX onward, and the brief moment of reform centered in Vatican II.  Predictably, Kueng presents a rather biased history, especially when reviewing recent times.  (He almost categorically rules out the possibility that John Paul II has had ANY positive influence, which I find hard to accept.)  But that notwithstanding, I cannot see that anyone but the most conservative Catholics would find this book anything but enlightening and worth the time spent in reading it.  If this is what the Modern Library intends to do with its new Chronicles series, it should be a real boon to those who want serious history in reasonably small doses.	2001-07-03
US	52915825	RZUUZS1T751MH	0385495641	161920063	Ghost Soldiers: The Forgotten Epic Story of World War II's Most Dramatic Mission	Books	5	3	3	N	N	An absorbing account of an unjustifiably forgotten story	Hampton Sides deserves a great deal of praise for writing a memorable account of not just the famous Bataan Death March but also a January 1945 rescue mission of American POWs from the Bataan Death March which has largely been lost in the annals of history, despite the fact that it remains the largest POW rescue in American history.  Sides artfully intersperses chapters describing the fall of the Phillippines with the story of the Army Raiders and Fillipino guerillas group who pulled off the amazing rescue of over 500 POWs who were interned in a rural prison camp and in substantial jeopardy of being murdered by the retreating Japanese as the Americans invaded the Phillippines in early 1945.  This is an extremely insightful book, giving fresh perspectives into such things as why the Japanese mistreated American prisoners so badly both during the Bataan Death March and in the prison camps.  It treats the relationships between the three cultures--American, Fillipino, and Japanese--quite sensitively.  Sides has also done his homework in terms of interviewing surviving vets of both the POW group and those who raided the camp to rescue them, and has made this a lively, hard-to-put-down account.  He has truly rescued from obscurity a story that deserves to be remembered, and has drawn important parallels between this POW experience and that of Americans who were interned by the Viet Cong and North Vietnamese.  If you interested in World War II in the Pacific, this book should be irresistable to you.	2001-06-18
US	52915825	R2QCSE9LOPX0W1	0670882380	545983925	Mozart(Penguin Lives)	Books	5	47	48	N	Y	A delightful gem of a biography, compact yet informative	Peter Gay's brief biography of Mozart is the third of the new Penguin Lives which I have read, but only the first to offer a reasonably complete portrait.  (The others were &quot;Mao Zedong&quot; by Jonathan Spence, which seemed disappointingly incomplete, and &quot;Woodrow Wilson&quot; by Louis Auchincloss, which seemed terribly superficial.)  As an eminent cultural historian of Europe since the Enlightenment and a native of German-speaking Europe himself, Gay is more than qualified to write a superior life story of Mozart and certainly rises to the occasion with a captivating style that made reading this book a pleasure.<br />For a book that is only 163 pages long, exclusive of endnotes and bibliographic essay, this volume offers an unusually full picture.  It depicts Mozart as man and musician, while placing him and his art in the context of his times.  Gay delves into Mozart's complex relationship with his autocratic father, describing his evolution from docile Wunderkind to assertive mature artist.  He also explores Mozart's unusual personality, including his often juvenile sense of humor, his devoted commitment to his wife, his tendency to constantly live beyond his means and the resulting sometimes obsequious dependency on his patrons, and his interactions with contemporary composers, particularly Johann Christoph Bach and Franz Josef Haydn.  Gay is especially good at explaining Mozart's major contributions to the development of classical music in terms that even someone who lacks a technical understanding of music can fathom, showing how he contributed to chamber music, the symphony, and opera.  And he briefly points out what is distinctive about a number of the composers' major works.<br />In short, this is a book that offers all the fun of &quot;Amadeus,&quot; but a far more satisfying portrayal of Mozart and a fuller explication of why he is an icon of Western civilization.  For readers who lack much knowledge about the composer, Gay does an artful job oftantalizing them into wanting to learn more, then pointing the way with a helpful and thorough bibliographical essay.	2000-10-24
US	52915825	R5R73372XMCQW	0395860423	605698458	The Gentleman From New York : Daniel Patrick Moynihan: A Biography	Books	4	27	34	N	Y	A revealing, if biased, political biography	Godfrey Hodgson, the author of this new biography of Daniel Patrick Moynihan, is admittedly a long-standing, close friend of his subject.  This is at once the major strength and major weakness of this portrait of the senior Senator from New York.  On the one hand, Hodgson has enjoyed unprecedented access to Moynihan in writing this book, which stops just short of being an official biography, making the book extremely revealing.  Yet as an intimate of Moynihan's, the author cannot seem to achieve the distance and perspective which objectivity demands.<br />Nonetheless, anyone interested in American or New York politics--or contemporary American history--is bound to find this an absorbing volume.  After all, Moynihan's friends and associates have ranged from Averell Harriman to Henry Kissinger, from Arthur Goldberg to Richard Nixon, from Lyndon Johnson to Irving Kristol.  He has exercised power in locales as varied as Albany, the U.S. Labor Department, the Nixon White House, the United Nations, New Delhi, and the U.S. Senate.  Perhaps more than most political biographies, this is not just the story of one man but a political and intellectual history of the period in which his career flourished.<br />Yet the author's biases are apparent.  He strives mightily to reconcile and explain Moynihan's political inconsistencies, styling him at one point an &quot;orthodox centrist liberal&quot;--whatever that means.  (It strikes me as an oxymoron.)  He tries to find consistent strains in what seems to me to have been a political career characterized most of all by opportunism, if not outright caprice.  He tries to explain away Moynihan's alcohol problem, while reporting that his staff employs the euphemism that the Senator is &quot;with the Mexican ambassador&quot; to explain that he is enjoying Tio Pepe, his favorite dry sherry.  He justifies the Senator's long-standing feud with the liberal wing of his party in light of some early slights at the hands of liberal New Yorkers, referring at one point to &quot;the authoritarian left,&quot; an interesting turn of phrase in the wake of Gingrich and Co.<br />There are a number of obvious errors in the book.  The author notes that in 1953, the Democrats had been out of power in New York State for 20 years, ignoring the fact that Democrat Herbert Lehman served as Governor through 1943, following FDR and Al Smith.  He refers to the Comptroller General of the U.S. as a &quot;Treasury official,&quot; although the C.G. is in charge of the U.S. General Accounting Office, a Congressional agency, not part of the Treasury Department.  He suggests that President Clinton pledged that he would &quot;vote for&quot; the welfare reform legislation he eventually signed, missing the fact that America is not a parliamentary democracy.<br />Despite the weaknesses, this is a beguiling biography, which is for the most part well written, and sure to captivate anyone with more than a passing interest in U.S. politics.  I do not regret for a minute the time I spent reading it.	2000-10-11
US	52915825	R2IFVKG8TBT6MU	0385489099	424706370	The Rasputin File	Books	4	22	24	N	N	Revealing insights into influential figure, but too detailed	Having read Radzinsky's THE LAST TSAR and found it difficult to put down, I was eager to dive into his new book on Rasputin.  In the earlier book, Radzinsky combined historical insights with the captivating writing style that has made him a popular playwright in Russia.  The new book also promised new revelations based on his discovery--through the help of the author's friend, the conductor/cellist Mistislav Rostropovich--of the voluminous, long-lost Kerensky government police files on Rasputin, based on interviews with the people (outside of the tsar's immediate family) who knew him most intimately.<br />All of this said, I found the new book rather disappointing.  It lacks the riveting style that characterized THE LAST TSAR.  (It is difficult to tell whether the fault lies with the author or the translator.)  And the book gets bogged down in details, seeming to dwell endlessly on Rasputin's misdeeds and his intrigues to influence the shape of the Russian imperial government.  Of the entire 500 pages of the book, the middle three-fifths seem to be a morass of minute facts and figures.  Like one of the most monstrously long Russian novels, this book also seems to get lost in minor characters.<br />This is not to say, however, that this is a book without merit.  It offers new insights into Rasputin himself, his incredible power over the imperial court, and his role in bringing down the government of Nicholas II.  Radzinsky also does a convincing job of reconciling the seemingly contradictory facets of Rasputin's personality, alternating between the saint and the sinner, the holy man and the orgiast.  He also explains Rasputin and his influence in the larger context of Russian religious history, explaining the tradition of sectarianism in Russian orthodoxy as well as the unique influences of &quot;holy fools&quot; in Russian history.  And his detective work on how Rasputin actually died is impressive.  (That alone almost makes the book worth reading.)<br />In conclusion, I would not discourage people who are intensely interested in Russian history and the pre-revolutionary period from reading this book.  But it is not a volume for casual readers, especially those lacking any grounding in this period.  And even those who consider themselves Russian history afficionados might be advised to read this book selectively.	2000-10-10
US	52915825	R1B91OGV8MDPEN	0679451226	809423063	The Sibley Guide to Birds	Books	5	83	86	N	Y	Every bird watcher will want this book in his or her library	From the moment I first opened David Sibley's new field guide, I was mesmerized.  It offers a compact presentation on every species of bird north of the Mexican border and is undoubtedly one of the most user-friendly guides ever developed.  In many ways, Sibley takes Roger Torey Peterson's method to its logical end--a guide that capsulizes all the essential information about similar species, arraying them close to each other for comparison.  But unlike Peterson, Sibley presents ample information on the many plumages of individual species which are apt to confuse even some of the most experienced birders.  Sibley's art work is very appealing to the eye, and his bird potraits are all very naturally posed.  He also points out distinguishing field marks with text arrayed alongside his portraits, facilitating rapid identification.  His approach also offers flight views together with perched views where that is helpful.<br />There are a few negatives--only a few.  The book would be unwieldy to carry in the field.  (Best to bring it along and leave it in the car, perhaps.)  The range maps are for the most part too small to easily distinguish, especially where birds appear in only limited areas.  And the description of songs and calls strike me as inferior to Peterson's, from which I've learned most of the songs and calls I know over the past 40 years.<br />In comparison to the other new bird guide just published, Kenn Kaufman's &quot;Focus Guide,&quot; I much prefer David Sibley's.  While Kaufman has crammed an incredible amount of information into a small, very quickly accessible volume, Sibley's is far more useful in distinguishing between species.  Kaufman's is far handier to carry along in the field, but it offers far less data on individual species than Sibley.  (Although I cannot feature using this information, Sibley even gives the average weight of each species--a fascinating bit of information not readily available in most other guides.)<br />In any event, if youare a person interested in birds at any level of expertise, you are bound to enjoy David Sibley's excellent new guide.  Buy a copy as soon as you can!	2000-10-04
US	52915825	R3HB6J2EAARDM5	1880837935	252937349	Cup of Wrath: A Novel Based on Dietrich Bonhoeffer's Resistance to Hitler	Books	5	17	17	N	N	Fiction powerfully harnessed to serve  biography and history	In recent years, there has been a great deal of controversy about fiction masquerading as biography.  (One thinks of Edmund Morris's DUTCH: A MEMOIR OF RONALD REAGAN and Joe McGinniss's THE LAST BROTHER, his fictionalized biography of Ted Kennedy.)  In the case of CUP OF WRATH, there seems to be no doubt that fiction has been employed very ably to tell the story of the life and times of German Resistance hero and martyr Dietrich Bonhoeffer.  Given the paucity of Bonhoeffer's extant writings about himself--primarily if not exclusively assembled in his friend Eberhard Bethge's DIETRICH BONHOEFFER: LETTERS &amp; PAPERS FROM PRISON--this book offers what may be the closest approximation possible to an inner life of the German theologian and political activist.  It portrays very skillfully the inner turmoil which a Christian pacifist and idealist faced when confronting the evils of Hitler and the Third Reich--and the seemingly inevitable need to take violent action to bring the criminal regime down.  Given the author's ready access to Bonhoeffer's surviving relatives and colleagues, and their review of the book in draft, this fictional biography offers a sense of verity and immediacy that few nonfiction biographies provide.  The character development and interaction among members of the protagonist's family, friends, and colleagues are exceptionally well done.  Further, none of the conversations in the book seems artificial.  Particularly noteworthy are the final pages, narrating Bonhoeffer's torment and death at the hands of the S.S., while faced with the torture and deaths of many of his fellow members of the Resistance.  I have read few books on either Nazi Germany or totalitarianism in general that so vividly portrayed the dilemma faced by people of good will when forced to deal with the ultimate evil.  It is hard to believe that this book is only the author's first--or that it has not gotten more of the recognition it deserves.	2000-09-28
US	52915825	R2QCILYQSY7NMC	0312198388	639000012	The Bombing of Auschwitz: Should the Allies Have Attempted It?	Books	5	27	30	N	Y	An informative, provocative historiographic tour de force	This collection of essays about the feasibility of bombing the crematoria  and gas chambers at the Nazi death camp Auschwitz and the railways leading  to it in 1944 presents virtually every aspect of the issue--from the  available intelligence about the camp to military logistical and  operational considerations to the British and American politics behind the  decision not to intervene to the likely casualties caused and lives saved  by such an intervention if it had taken place.  Don't come to this book  expecting facile, clear, categorical answers to the issues.  While most  authors have their own viewpoints to argue, collectively, the essays  present a reasonably balanced set of perspectives on the pros and cons of  bombing Auschwitz and its environs.  The editors largely leave it to the  reader to decide what could and should have been done.  They are to be  commended for their overall objectivity.<br />Especially compelling are the  aerial reconnaisance photographs and contemporary documents included in the  book.  One photograph alone--showing Auschwitz from high above, with the  crematoria bracketed by bombs dropped to destroy the adjacent IG Farben  slave labor factory--is especially haunting, since it shows very vividly  that not only could the Allies have bombed the killing facilities at  Auschwitz/Birkenau, they did bomb a facility literally only a few miles  away.  (Former Israeli Premier Benjamin Netanyahu is quoted to the effect  that the Allies knew enough and had the capacity to bomb Auschwitz; the  problem, he asserts, was that the Jews did not have enough political clout  at the time to command attention and military resources.)  <br />Among the  documents included in the volume is a detailed report from two Slovakian  Jews who escaped from Auschwitz, documenting very clearly that early in  1944 detailed information was available to Allied leaders about the massive  murders being carried out there.  It also included a remarkably accurate  map of the area, drawn from memory by the escapees.<br />Many of the essays  caution the reader against the fallacy of &quot;presentism&quot;--reading  the history of over half a century ago through the prism of the present  along with its political and ethical standards.  For example, at the time  that it first became militarily feasible to bomb Auschwitz--late spring and  early summer of 1944, when American bombers were operating out of southern  Italy--the Allies were understandbly preoccupied with launching the D-Day  invasion of Normandy, and most available British-American resources in the  European theater were being devoted to that goal.  Nor was victory over the  Nazis a certainty at this time.  Thus, the repeated response of U.S. War  Department officials that military resources could not be diverted to bomb  Auschwitz is a bit more understandable, albeit still morally obtuse in  light of the boming of the nearby I.G. Farben works.  (None of the essays  seems to recognize that the allocation of military resources at the time  was not 100-percent efficient--a point underscored repeatedly in Joseph  Heller's &quot;Catch-22.&quot;)  Similarly, there was some political  concern that openly proclaiming an Allied goal of halting the slaughter of  the Jews might backfire, given the widely prevalent anti-Semitism in both  the U.K. and U.S.A. at the time.  None of the points like these seems to be  presented to excuse Allied inaction so much as to explain it.<br />As might be  expected, the essays vary a great deal in quality.  A few seem excessively  detailed and verbose, but most are quite thought-provoking, well-written,  and informative.  None is an easy read, however--this is not a book for the  reader who does not feel like investing a good deal of time, concentration,  and energy.  Nonetheless, it is a book not to be missed by anyone seriously  interested in the Holocaust and World War II in Europe.  I learned more  from this book about both those topics than I havefrom any single book in  a long time.  Pay attention to the endnotes, too--they are filled with  additional insights.	2000-09-06
US	52915825	RQCOX4O2AK7BJ	1884822304	601827270	Selected Poetry of Ogden Nash	Books	5	49	50	N	N	You'll Never Buy a More Delightful, Humorous Book	After an especially hideous day at work--11 hours of constant pressure--I  stopped by a bookstore on the way to the Washington Metro (subway) last  night and bought this book.  Talk about &quot;Comic Relief!&quot;  I pored  over the book in the Metro for my entire 45-minute ride and found myself  captivated by some of the greatest humor of all time.  This is indeed a  book that is laugh-out-loud funny.  Nash's odes to the perils of everyday  existence as well as his clever but succinct characterizations of  everything from exotic animals to unusual people--and his occasionally  tortured but still delightful rhymes--are certainly unique.  No other poet  or humorist even comes close.  Those of you who are Nash fans will find  many favorites in the volume, and some enjoyable obscure surprises, too.   Some of Nash's references are a bit dated, especially those related to  once-famous people--and the book would have benefited from some annotation  to explain the references.  But most of the humor is impressively timeless.   The book also needs an index, which it completely lacks--neither titles  nor first lines.  But forget those minor deficiencies and buy the book!!  You WON'T regret it.  I plan to keep it handy for a welcome laugh when I  need one, and look forward to dipping into it often in the future.	2000-08-29
US	52915825	R21XG8IBVDDR9L	0316834033	730331750	American Pharaoh: Mayor Richard J. Daley - His Battle for Chicago and the Nation	Books	5	20	21	N	N	Absorbing study of the last omnipotent urban Democratic boss	Cohen and Taylor have written both a masterful piece of investigative  journalism and a captivating political biography.  In many ways, this book  should be required reading for anyone doing college or graduate level  research in the fields of American urban or domestic political science or  history.  Almost like Finley Peter Dunne's MISTER DOOLEY--which it often  quotes--this volume takes you inside the Chicago Democratic machine and  shows just how omnipotent the organization was during Daley's tenure at the  helm, not without an occasional touch of humor and irony.  As its subtitle  promises, the book also places Daley and his machine in the context of  national (and Illionis) politics, over which they had such enormous  influence, especially during the late 1950s and all through the 1960s.<br />The authors paint a portrait of Daley that shows his enormous personal  complexity--a devout Catholic and loyal family man who did not hesitate to  engage in the most bare-fisted power politics or work to capitalize on the  basest human instincts.  While I tend to agree with other reviewers that  the book focusses a bit heavily on racial matters during the Daley  mayoralty, they played a major role during this period and Daley's attempt  to balance the competing interests of white ethnics and black citizens  ultimately undermined the absolute authority of the Chicago Democratic  machine.  I disagree with reviewers who say that the authors were too  anti-Daley; I feel they made an honest effort to credit him for the  considerable accomplishments of his tenure--including the preservation of  Downtown Chicago as a going concern when so many other rust belt cities in  the Midwest and Great Lakes area were going under (e.g., Detroit, St.  Louis, Cleveland, Buffalo, and Pittsburgh).  They make clear, however, the  enormous price that was paid for his accomplishments, including the  subversion of democracy and the exacerbation of racial tensions in Chicago.	2000-08-22
US	52915825	R3DQDY88DYXTHN	0312199228	642414930	The Moose That Roared: The Story of Jay Ward, Bill Scott, a Flying Squirrel, and a Talking Moose	Books	3	29	32	N	Y	Funny &amp; Enchanting in Places, But Largely a Chore to Read	I once read a review that began: &quot;This book told me more about  penguins than I ever wanted to know about penguins.&quot;  Similarly, I'm  tempted to say that this book told me far more about Jay Ward, Bill Scott,  and the ups and downs of their years in show business than I ever wanted to  know--and far less about one of the favorite t.v. programs of my long-ago  adolescence, Rocky and Bullwinkle.  (The book spends a lot of time  discussing Ward's and Scott's other ventures into cartoon series, including  Crusader Rabbit, Hoppity Hooper, and George of the Jungle as well as ads  for Captain Crunch and other Quaker cereals.)  If you venture into this  book expecting it to be as full of zany humor and excruciating puns as  Rocky and Bullwinkle were--as I did--you are in for a disappointment.   While parts of the book are quite absorbing, it is on the whole a chore to  read.  The book badly needs edited down, especially given its  repititiousness.  The author tends to be a bit too gushingly adulatory of  the work of Ward and Scott, too; while they were comic and artistic  geniuses, they did misfire a few times.<br />There are gems along the  way--including the origin of the name Bullwinkle, the real identity of  Ponsonby Britt, how the names Gidney and Cloyd were chosen for the moonmen,  and the never-ceasing wars between Ward and Scott and their sponsors and  networks--but you have to sift through a lot of gratuitous detail to find  them. One of the most engaging parts of the book is the Reference Section.   (Curiously, the reference section, the appendices, and the index account  for 128 pages of the book's total 442 pages.)  In the Reference Section,  the reader finds synopses of all the episodes of Rocky and Bullwinkle,  Fractured Fairy Tales, Bullwinkle's Corner (aka, Mr. Know-It-All), Mr.  Peabody's History, Aesop and Son, and Dudley Doo-Right.  Just glancing  through the names of the Rocky and Bullwinkle episodes is a delight (e.g.,  &quot;A Creep in the Deep, or Will Success Spoil Boris Badenov?&quot;  &quot;Fast and Moose or Charlie's Antler&quot;).  It is a reminder, too, of  how much funnier and more engaging this book might have been if better  focused and better written.	2000-08-13
US	52915825	R34H2WECTTO0FY	0393040984	513752605	It Didn't Happen Here: Why Socialism Failed in the United States	Books	4	28	29	N	Y	Thorough analysis of complex subject, tho rather laborious	The authors take on the perennial question of why a strong socialist movement never developed in the United States from virtually every imaginable angle--including American &quot;exceptionalism,&quot; our  electoral system, American federalism, the nature of unionism in the U.S.,  persection of leftists, etc.  The emphasis here is on thorough--they have  obviously reviewed all the major social science thought and research on  this issue and added some original thinking of their own.  (The footnotes  are extensive, if not somewhat overwhelming.)  They seem at their best when  they approach the issues from the perspectives of political science and  history, less so when they attempt sociological or economic explanations or  attempt to draw lessons from international comparisons or multivariate  analysis.  (They frequently make comparisons with the experiences of such  nations as Canada, Australia, and New Zealand, which seem to verge on  irrelevance in places.)  The style of the book is that of a social science  textbook--at once both its strength and its weakness, in that the book's  theses are well developed but hammered home rather repetitively.  The  summaries at the end of each chapter are especially useful.  The book is  something of an effort to read, given the amount of detail offered, but it  is a worthwhile and thought-provoking investment of time.	2000-08-01
US	52915825	RUC6VMRDHOBW8	0393046451	508699678	American Dreamer: The Life and Times of Henry A. Wallace	Books	5	25	27	N	Y	An engrossing political biography of an understudied leader	Rarely have I read such a well-written political biography of a major figure.  AMERICAN DREAMER very ably traces the trajectory of Henry Wallace's career from relative obscurity in the Iowa farm belt to its  pinnacle in the Vice Presidency, then the fall from grace from Truman's  firing of him as Commerce Secretary through the debacle of the 1948  Progressive Party candidacy for President.  Especially fascinating are the  parts which trace the reasons for FDR's dumping Wallace in favor of Truman  in 1944 and Wallace's increasing distance from the American political  mainstream, especially after that point.  Viewed from the perspective of  post-Cold War America, Wallace's views toward the Soviet Union and World  Communism seem to have more validity than they did when he expressed them  between the end of World War II and the outbreak of the Korean War; but the  authors maintain objectivity about Wallace in this regard and rightly  suggest how naive or downright subversive some of his political stances  seemed at the time.  The book is not without its appreciation of the  ironies of Wallace's life and career in politics--how a &quot;rock-ribbed  Republican&quot; evolved into one of the most radical national politicians  of his generation, and how a scientist and businessman who made a minor  fortune from the new hybrid strains of corn which he developed came to be  regarded as a closet Communist.<br />The main thing that is lacking from this  biography is a full picture of Henry Wallace the man.  There are a number  of hints that his family life following his marriage was rather troubled  and unhappy, but his wife, children, and siblings remain on the periphery  of the authors' presentation.  (For example, it mentions that his oldest  son never forgave him for one particular disagreement, but never elaborates  or returns to their relationship.  His wife was obviously uncomfortable  with his entrance into electoral politics, but the book never explores this  in any depth.)  The book also seems to compress its account of the final 15  years of his life to a snapshot at best; it would have been nice to know  more about how he viewed American politics--both national and  international--in the years preceding his death, how he felt about his  relative anonymity, and whether he ever felt fully vindicated for taking  the rather lonely political path he took.<br />As a result, the portrayal of  his later life in particular seems to be a bit one dimensional.  But these  are minor flaws in what is otherwise a captivating biography of a very  intricate individual.  Most people will learn a lot from this book; I  certainly did.pth.)  The book also seems to compress its account of the final 15  years of his life to a snapshot at best; it would have been nice to know  more about how he viewed American politics--both national and  international--in the years preceding his death, how he felt about his  relative anonymity, and whether he ever felt fully vindicated for taking  the rather lonely political path he took.<br />As a result, the portrayal of  his later life in particular seems to be a bit one dimensional.  But these  are minor flaws in what is otherwise a captivating biography of a very  intricate individual.  Most people will learn a lot from this book; I  certainly did.	2000-08-01
US	52915825	R2351X9AFXK79U	0688169759	572140372	Florence Harding: The First Lady, The Jazz Age, And The Death Of America's Most Scandalous President	Books	5	36	38	N	Y	Captivating biography reminiscent of Dreiser, Sinclair Lewis	I came to this book knowing little about the Harding administration except for its scandals and babbitry and knowing virtually nothing about Harding's wife Florence.  This is an absolutely captivating piece of writing, both  vividly portraying an era and brimming with human interest stories.   Florence Harding was at least as much a modern First Lady as Eleanor  Roosevelt--outspoken, a strong feminist, a woman with a major voice in her  husband's administration.  Her life was filled with tragedy--an  out-of-wedlock child to a drunken, shiftless man before she met Warren; a  domineering German-American father who was both unloving and bigoted; a  philandering husband the equal of Bill Clinton at his worst; and an  espousal of &quot;causes&quot; like animal rights and veterans' welfare  that had a way of backfiring on her.  Florence was very much the ambition  behind Warren, who probably would not have made it further than being a  small town Ohio newspaper editor without her; yet he showed considerable  resentment toward her outspokenness over the years--perhaps the root of  some of his womanizing.  Florence's life provides a very apt prism through  which to view Harding's rise to power, his demise, and his mysterious  death, upon which the author sheds some new and interesting light.  This is  a book filled with memorable characters, including Florence's wealthy and  bohemian friend, Evelyn Walsh McLean, owner of the Hope diamond, and the  vitriolic Alice Roosevelt Longworth.  As countless other reviewers have  noted, it is hard to put down, too.  A great book for a summer escape, with  the redeeming virtue of shedding light on an understudied piece of American  history.	2000-07-23
US	52915825	R12YD5SOHJ6SGP	0395840090	394376277	The Holocaust in American Life	Books	5	37	41	N	Y	A thought-provoking intellectual history, well presented	This is one of the most intellectually stimulating books I have ever encountered.  While few people with probably agree with everything the author has to say, he has written a thoughtful, thoroughly researched  examination of how the idea of the Holocaust--and popular thinking about  that tragedy among both Jewish and Gentile Americans--has evolved over the  60 years since the outbreak of World War II.  He also has the courage to  challenge conventional thinking as well as the beliefs of generally revered  leaders like David Ben Gurion and Elie Wiesel.<br />The book does an excellent  job of linking popular thinking about the Holocaust with concurrent  historical trends and developments, including the more intense American  focus on the Pacific as opposed to the European theatre for much of the  war, the lack of appreciation during and immediately after the war for the  immensity of the Jewish genocide, the emergence of the Cold War (together  with the &quot;discovery&quot; of common totalitarian threads between  Nazism and Stalinism), the &quot;rehabilitation&quot; of Germany after  Stalin took over Eastern Europe, changing views about  &quot;victimization&quot; in American popular culture, the Eichmann trial  in Jerusalem and Hannah Arendt's controversial analysis of it, the  Arab-Israeli Wars of 1967 and 1973, as well as the decline in American  anti-semitism in general at the same time that radical black activists were  employing anti-Jewish rhetoric.<br />One of the most important contributions  of the book is its discussion of the alleged &quot;uniqueness&quot; of the  Holocaust, which the author shows to be both historically inaccurate and  dangerous in leading down the slippery slope where any other more recent  catastrophes and disasters are minimized in comparison.  Rich with example  and documentation--the footnotes and endnotes should be read, too--the book  is one I expect to return to in the future.  Broad in its scope and  well-written, it is generally quite persuasive in the arguments it  advances.<br />I would concur with those critics who fault the author's  occasionally overly colloquial style, especially when he is discussing  Holocaust deniers.  His dismissal of them as &quot;kooks&quot; and  &quot;nut cases&quot; detracts from the generally strong case he makes  against them.	2000-07-17
US	52915825	R3CZ9LHXCMQ35V	0670889040	108158930	Woodrow Wilson (Penguin Lives)	Books	2	17	20	N	N	Shallow and opinionated essay on Wilson	To begin with, this is really a biographical essay, not a complete biography of Woodrow Wilson in any sense of that word, even discounting the shortness of the book.  (In fact, it is only 128 pages long--not 176 pages,  as Amazon's listing indicates.)  Auchincloss presents at best the  highlights of Wilson's life, with hardly any insight or analysis.  The  essay would have had more merit if published in a larger volume on Wilson  or his times; standing alone, it is of questionable merit.<br />In fact, I  cannot imagine what possessed the publisher to select this author or to  issue the book after they received it in draft.  Auchincloss is primarily a  novelist and a man of letters and quite obviously lacks the credentials to  write a biography of a major political leader; his product is extremely  superficial.  <br />In light of this, his decision to devote an entire  chapter--12 pages of digression from the Wilson life story--to Henry Cabot  Lodge, Wilson's nemesis at the end of his political career--seems highly  questionable.  (Had the biography of Wilson itself been more complete, this  might have been justifiable.)  It would have been better to include more  detail on Wilson's two wives--especially his second wife, who essentially  took over the Presidency after his major stroke.<br />The book is replete with  the author's opinions of how Wilson should or should not have behaved, with  little or no justification for these positions.  An example:  In discussing  American intervention in Mexico prior to World War I, Auchincloss  characterizes Mexican leaders Carranza and Pancho Villa as &quot;not too  much better&quot; than President Huerta--for whom Wilson showed &quot;moral  disapproval&quot;--and in fact notes that Villa was &quot;worse.&quot;  No  rationale whatsoever is given for these comparisons.  He notes that  &quot;Wilson probably handled a messy situation as well as could be  expected,&quot; but does not explain why.<br />Fortunately, there are numerous  good biographies of Woodrow Wilson available.  It seems difficult to  believe that the author really consulted many of them.	2000-07-17
US	52915825	R3GTFMLIMLNDJV	0375406425	123472120	Crucible of War: The Seven Years' War and the Fate of Empire in British North America, 1754-1766	Books	5	24	25	N	Y	History at its best	Educational, informative, and entertaining, Fred Anderson's book on the  conflict we Americans call the French and Indian War was truly one of the  most insightful works of American history I have ever encountered.  He  offers a good, multi-faceted approach to the period--political, economic,  sociological, and cultural.  (Especially good is his analysis of the very  different relations which Native Americans enjoyed with the French as  opposed to the British, and the implications of this difference for later  American history.)  But he also clearly sees the important role played by  the period's &quot;great men,&quot; and offers vivid portrayals of such  leaders as Pitt, Washington, Amherst, Wolfe, Montcalm, Forbes, and George  II and III.  His exploration of the political intrigues occurring in  England and their effect on the North American war is especially powerful.   <br />I have lived virtually my entire life in the Middle Atlantic region, the  cradle of the Seven Years' War--having been born in Pittsburgh, educated in  Philadelphia, employed in Albany, and currently residing in central  Maryland--but I was never able to fully comprehend the history of this  seminal period until reading this superb explanation.  Anderson's decision  to present the war as an entity separate unto itself--not as the prologue  to the American Revolution, the typical treatment of this era in other  works of American history, yet a curiously &quot;20/20 hindsight&quot;  approach--makes the book all the more enlightening, since the history is  presented as it was lived at the time, rather than retrospectively from  another era.  The author also does an able job of presenting the  simultaneous developments in this far-reaching global war in such places as  India, the European continent, and the Caribbean.<br />This book is so  well-written that I regretted when it ended; I believe it is destined to  take its place besides the works of Francis Parkman as a classic history of  this period.	2000-07-08
US	52915825	RW9V3WHJEVAZP	0684855798	868209845	Once Upon a Time in New York : Jimmy Walker, Franklin Roosevelt, and the Last Great Battle of the Jazz Age	Books	3	11	13	N	Y	More narrative than history	Mitgang's presentation of the scandals involving NY Mayor Jimmy Walker,  leading up to the Seabury Commission investigations and Walker's removal  from office by then NY Governor Franklin D. Roosevelt, offers a story that  should be captivating.  The personalities involved were among the major  American political figures of their time.  Walker's precipitous fall from  power was one of the major political events of the era.  But I laid down  the book feeling that I had somehow been presented the story, but only at  the most superficial level.  Perhaps I should have known better given the  book's brief length.  But Mitgang has a good reputation as a journalist,  and I expected more.  For example, none of the major actors is presented  with much depth at all.  Their motivations are not explored in sufficient  degree.  The implications of FDR's action in this case for his Presidency  are not explored.  Walker's failure to run again for the mayoralty--if for  no other reason than self-vindication--is not analyzed.  Some major  political figures--including former Governor Al Smith and succeeding Mayor  Fiorello LaGuardia--are given what might be walk-on parts or cameo roles,  if this were a movie, despite the fact that they were clearly major power  brokers at the time.  All in all, this book is a reasonable BASIC  introduction to the story, but left me wanting more.  It is hardly history;  it is more a narration.	2000-07-08
US	52915825	RETCX8HY3ZPH	0684827476	849728786	The Future Once Happened Here	Books	3	9	25	N	Y	Disappointingly dogmatic	The author has written what might have been an excellent history of three major American urban areas since World War II; the book certainly offers the reader a lot to think about and discusses many issues of major concern  to big cities. It is not until almost 95 percent of the way through the  book that Siegel reveals he was a member of New York Mayor Rudy Giuliani's  transition team when he was first elected; knowing that fact makes all the  difference in understanding the neoconservative bias that pervades the  book.  (I naively bought the book expecting it to be objective because of  its author's academic affiliation.)  <br />I found the book's analysis of the  race riots of the 1960s (and the more recent riots in Los Angeles) to be  disturbingly simplistic; it reminds me of the late Edward Banfield's  writings on &quot;rioting for fun and profit.&quot;  Siegel has at best a  callous view of the urban underclass and little empathy for the plight of  minorities trapped in the inner cities.  Among his personal demons are  mayors John Lindsay and Tom Bradley, neither of whom deserves the rather  short shrift he gives them.  (While each of them had their faults, they  were to some extent visionaries and innovators; Siegel sees virtually  nothing good about their adminisrations.)<br />I had also expected the book to  draw some comparisons among the three cities on which it focuses.  (After  all, why present three case examples if you aren't going to contrast them?)   But the histories of the three cities might just as well have been  published separately.  Little attempt is made to draw lessons from their  three disparate recent histories.<br />Although the book was published in  1997--and one cannot expect the author to have foreseen the future--a  single assertion perhaps best characterizes the book's deficiencies.   Siegel makes the point that those who characterized Rudy Giuliani as  racially insensitive and showing proto-fascist leanings had certainly  exaggerated their portrait of him.  The developments in the Dialo and  Louima cases over the last year alone certainly suggest otherwise.<br />And  the election of Anthony Williams in Washington seems to indicate that  Siegel's pessimistic view of that city was overly overstated.  (He  characterizes the city as inextricably linked to politicians like  &quot;mayor-for-life&quot; Marion Berry and his ilk.)  As a person who  works in Washington, I feel that Mayor Williams offers a lot of hope for  the city.<br />I do not altogether regret that I read this book, but I feel  that as an academician, the author was obligated to clearly state his  biases at the outset of the book.  That way the reader could at least have  put the book in the proper context.	2000-07-07
US	52915825	R227F5YD7KLLQM	0375503978	600772134	Letters From the Editor: The New Yorker's Harold Ross	Books	5	17	17	N	Y	An Entertaining Literary Anthology, Laugh Out Loud Funny	Even more than Kunkel's brilliant biography &quot;Genius in Disguise,&quot; this book offers special insights into &quot;New Yorker&quot; founder and editor Harold Ross, not only a seminal figure in  American letters but a sardonic wit reminiscent of H.L. Mencken, one of the  people with whom he frequently exchanged letters.  (Indeed, the sweep of  his correspondence, from &quot;New Yorker&quot; stalwarts like E.B. White  and his wife Katherine to Dorothy Parker and James Thurber all the way to  John O'Hara, Harpo Marx, various state governors and other polticos,  President Truman, and Premier Nehru, is impressive in itself.)  While in  many of these letters, Ross comes across as that curmudgeon one might  expect, there is a touch of tender concern in others that shows you that  some of the gruffness was merely a pose--as is his stance as the  long-suffering, embattled editor who says he would rather be doing anything  else, but who clearly shows he is having the time of his life.<br />The book  may be a bit abstruse in places for those who do not know the history of  the &quot;New Yorker&quot; during the Ross editorship, but there seems to  be enough comedy throughout to maintain even a casual reader's interest.   Anyone who has enjoyed &quot;Genius in Disguise&quot; will surely love this  book.  I guess the greatest complement I can offer is now that I've read  Kunkel's two Ross portrayals, I can't wait for his next book.	2000-05-01
US	52915825	RT3R8LVIMEZJJ	0865475431	625361417	Living on the Wind: Across the Hemisphere with Migratory Birds	Books	5	62	63	N	N	If you enjoy birds or natural science, read this great book!	I have been a birdwatcher for 39 years, and rarely have I encountered a book that I enjoyed as much as this.  Unlike another reviewer, I learned a great deal about migration from reading this book--though, truth to tell, the book is as much about population dynamics among Western Hemisphere  birds as it is about migration.  One of the particular insights I gained  from the book is a better realization of the somewhat parochial viewpoint  many of us birdwatchers in North America take, considering migrants who  spend only a brief part of the year breeding here to be &quot;our  birds,&quot; when they spend most of their lives either in Latin America or  migrating between the two continents.   The author has an unusually  captivating writing style and most of the book was hard for me to put down;  he reminds me of some of the best nature writers I have encountered--Hal  Borland, John Burroughs, Loren Eiseley, Pete Dunn, and Thoreau.  One of the  book's particular strengths is its focus on certain critical locales as  well as individual species; the general observations have much more meaning  because of these case examples.  While the book is most likely to be  appreciated best by veteran birdwatchers, I do feel that almost anyone with  a natural history bent can find some enjoyment in it.  Among the few  shortcomings of the book are the lack of illustrations for those unfamiliar  with the individual species--something that can be remedied by referring to  a field guide as one reads it--as well as the paucity of really good maps.   (There are a few scattered maps, but the text makes repeated reference to  sites in the Western Hemisphere--especially outside the U.S. and  Canada--about whose location I had no idea.  Because many of them are  obscure places, a general purpose atlas is unlikely to be much help.)  As a  final strength of the book, I should point out its beautiful dust jacket,  with embossed bird silhouettes atop a topographical map of the hemisphere,  as well as the handsome typesetting job.  In other words, it is a book to  be appreciated for more than just its content.	2000-04-24
US	52915825	R24X0DMY6SO0RK	0670886696	802733832	Mao Zedong: A Penguin Life (Penguin Lives)	Books	4	47	51	N	Y	Informative and concise, but unsatisfying	Jonathan Spence's biography of Mao was my first experience with the new Penguin Lives series, and I was unsure what to expect. Certainly, one cannot expect too much from a biography of one of the major political figures of the 20th century that offers only 178 pages of text and 10 pages of endnotes.  But I was game to try it, since I knew very little about Mao and gathered I would learn a lot in a relatively short time from this biography.<br />Spence certainly succeeds in compressing most of the major events of Mao's life into this thin volume, and concisely reviews much of Mao's political thought and how it evolved.  He also does a good job of mining source materials, particularly some of Mao's more obscure writing and poetry.  But my major frustration in reading this book was a feeling that I never learned much about Mao as an individual human being, except that he came from obscure bourgeois peasant roots, that he was &quot;married&quot; at least four times and had at least ten children with whom he had rather distant relationships, and that as the years passed, he became more and more of a megalomaniac.  I would also fault the book for giving minimal attention to the history of the times and to Mao's principal comrades in arms.  (For example, Zhou Enlai does not appear until the final quarter of the book and gets minimal mention at that.  The Long March gets only 2-3 pages.)  Also somehwat curious is that the book lacks an index.<br />All of that said, however, this is a remarkably informative book given its length.  I should emphasize that the text on each page measures lightly under 6 x 4 inches, too--so not only is it a short book, but also a small book.  I put the book down eager to learn more about Mao, which I suppose does commend it to other readers who know as little as I did before I read it.	2000-03-29
US	52915825	RA6C3CCS9DGEF	0374157065	503232720	Flu: The Story of the Great Influenza Pandemic of 1918 and the Search for the Virus That Caused It	Books	3	1	3	N	Y	Half the title is a misnomer; a superficial account at best	While this book was hardly a complete waste of time, it was also a great disappointment.  It was decidedly not an account of &quot;The Story of the Great Influenza Pandemic of 1918.&quot;  (Since I finished this book, I have begun Alfred Crosby's &quot;America's Forgotten Pandemic: The  Influenza of 1918,&quot; a far superior account of what actually happened  in 1918-19.)  Even where this book has some strength--in recounting the  story of several post-1918 attempts to discover the original virus that  caused the 1918 outbreak--it seems to be written in a rather shallow,  journalistic style.  The book shows all the signs of having been hastily  prepared for the mass market.  One would have expected better from a  science writer from the New York Times, but perhaps her acumen as a writer  has been warped by the nature of the beat she covers (e.g., cloning).	2000-01-31
US	52915825	R384UZ8PHG1KK5	0312066058	137675077	From Yalta to Berlin: The Cold War Stuggle over Germany	Books	5	14	14	N	Y	Informative, engaging, history as it was meant to be written	Anyone with even the slightest interest in German history or the history of the Cold War will find this well-written analysis of how Germany was divided, why it remained divided, and how it was reunified very worthwhile.   Smyser does an exceptional job of making sense of a crucial element of  postwar Europe, balancing the influence of a few great men (Truman, Stalin,  Clay, Adenauer, Brandt, Kohl, DeGaulle, and Gorbachev) with the larger  political-economic influences at work during these years.  He also very  deftly places &quot;the German Question&quot; in a larger world  context--linking, for example, the Cuban Missile Crisis and developments in  Germany, and demonstrating how Allied uneasiness over Communist  machinations in the Korean War led to the rearmament of Germany and its  acceptance as a full-fledged member of the NATO alliance.  He also reveals  some surprising facts he has dug out of newly available Soviet  archives--for example, that Stalin preferred to reunify Germany after the  war, while the Western Allies opposed him because of his actions in Eastern  Europe.  For anyone who has lived through these years without knowing the  full history--as I have, born in 1949--this book is especially  enlightening.  Smyser's style is at once lucid and persuasive, making this  a joy to read.	2000-01-28
US	52915825	R3DXTJCIRDBUZ2	0826410898	881511056	The History of an Obsession: German Judeophobia and the Holocaust	Books	5	40	42	N	N	Insightful Inquiry into the Causes of the Holocaust	Klaus Fischer, the author of one of the most enlightening recent histories of Nazi Germany that I've encountered, tackles here the thorny question of the causes of the Holocaust from the perspective of German history and  social psychology.  He presents an intriguing multi-causal explanation,  pointing (among other things) to the key role of World War I and the Treaty  of Versailles, and the ensuing instability of German society and politics;  the separate, very visible identity of Jews in Germany despite widespread  assimilation; a historic German inability to answer conclusively what it  means to be a German; and a German unwillingness (that persists to the  present) to foster a pluralistic, diverse society.  Less satisfying are  explanations that point to particular elements of the German character,  such as blind obedience, orderliness, authoritarianism, militarism, etc.   <br />This is a pithy book, not for those seeking snap answers to difficult  historical questions, however.  The author has mined the historiographic  literature as well as contemporary sources to illustrate amply the points  he makes.  <br />One of the few criticisms I would register, however, is that  Fischer seems excessively sanguine in his belief that the Holocaust could  never happen again in the future in Germany.  Certainly, people's  unwillingness to believe that a progrom of this extent could happen in this  enlightened &quot;nation of Dichter und Denker&quot; (poets and  philosphers) in the first place was one of the reason that Hitler succeeded  with relatively little interference from inside or outside Germany until it  was too late.  Even despite the fact of 50 years of strong democratic  tradition in Germany since the war, continued incidents of xenophobic  terrorism and the continued strength of racist right wing parties in the  country indicate that continued vigilance is in order.<br />But the book  offers a balanced, articulate analysis of German Judeophobia--the author  rightly uses this term in place of anti-Semitism-- and the horrible results  that it produced.  It is a book well worth reading for anyone interested in  this area.	1999-12-03
US	52915825	R20PCW1R3ZG1XT	0670886939	928300055	Hitler's Pope: The Secret History of Pius XII	Books	3	11	16	N	N	Good biography, but poorly reasoned history	I came to this book predisposed to believe that Pius XII bore some responsibility for the Holocaust, insofar as he made no aggressive effort to censure Hitler and the Nazis or to defend the cause of the Jews and  other oppressed minorities of Europe during World War II.  But the author  did such a poor job of advancing this thesis that I came away with a very  different conclusion.  Given Pacelli's background, the limits on his  worldview, and the palpable jeopardy to the Papacy in Italy as well as to  the Catholic Church in Germany and Axis-occupied Europe which woudl  probably have resulted from overt opposition to the Nazi agenda, it would  have been quite amazing and out of character for him to have responded  differently.  The author fails to differentiate between sins or acts of  omission--the failure to speak out--and sins or acts of commission--the  crimes of Hitler and the Nazis.  At most, Pius was culpable for his refusal  to see beyond his world to include Jews in the community of humankind; he  is to be blamed for a parochial myopia, perhaps, but it is an  understandable failing, given his background and the period and place in  which he lived.<br />The author rightly criticizes Rolf Hochhuth's The Deputy  for it one-sided picture of Pius and his culpability.  But in many ways, he  is just as guilty as Hochhuth in this bias.  It seems that he reached  conclusions in advance of writing the book--then sought out evidence to  bolster those conclusions.  <br />His picture of Pius generally is of an  ascetic man of the cloth without a lot of vision--hardly a man to be  excoriated, though a human being with human failings.<br />As a postscript, I  might add that I am a Protestant.  I am surprised that a Catholic author  could have produced a volume like this.	1999-11-04
US	52915825	R1AWKOV0JJGLCL	037540127X	486677763	The View from Alger's Window: A Son's Memoir	Books	5	9	15	N	N	A lovingly crafted memoir of a noteworthy American	Tony Hiss's book is one of the best books I've had the chance to read in recent years.  He has made a concentrated attempt to put himself in his father's place during the nearly four years Alger Hiss spent in prison.  It  is thus truly an inside picture of Alger, his prison experience, and the  forced separation from his family and friends. The author has combed his  parents' letters from this period and has revealed much from them that give  insights into Alger and Priscilla Hiss and the nature of their unusual  marriage.   Unlike some of the doctrinaire right wingers who have  contributed other reviews to Amazon.com, I don't know if we'll ever know if  Alger Hiss was guilty of espionage.  Nor do I entirely agree with the  thesis that if Alger was able to write such wonderful letters to his wife  and son, he could not have been a Communist or a traitor.  Suffice it to  say, he did suffer a great fall in prestige and a public humiliation like  few people in American history.  Yet he remained remarkably unbitter about  his experience.  And as Tony demonstrates, prison made him a more complete  human being.  Yet, regardless of his guilt, he paid a high price, and this  book helps the reader understand the nature of that price.  Tony Hiss is  remarkably open about many aspects of his family in this memorable book  that I found hard to put down.	1999-07-23
US	52915825	RLHGRRZI8W7FA	067942850X	674569455	Into the Wild	Books	5	6	8	N	N	The rich biography this tragic young man deserved	For a change, a book of great merit has made the best seller list and has stayed there for a while. I read this book in virtually one sitting--it is that compelling and well-written, and also that compact.  This is a book for anyone who appreciates the two-edged quality of nature--its appeal to the discontents of civilization like Thoreau and &quot;the red tooth and claw&quot; aspects it presents to writers like Jack London, both of whom appealed to the book's protagonist, Chris McCandless, a.k.a. &quot;Alexander Supertramp.&quot;  The author's citations from them and other authors at the head of each chapter are well selected, and warrant re-reading after finishing each chapter and the book itself.  Clearly, Jon Krakauer became amazing absorbed in this story, and did some marvelous detective work in reconstructing what happened to Chris and what led to his demise, going all the way back to childhood and proceeding through the cause of his untimely death.  When I read t! he initial chapters about how Chris's body was found by hunters in a relatively isolated spot in Alaska, what struck me was the tragedy and meaninglessness of his death, and the loneliness of his last days.  (These feelings were only compounded for me as the author demonstrated how close Chris was to several well-provisioned cabins in the wilderness and to a cable car which could have carried him across an otherwise unfordable river which blocked his egress to civilization.)  But this book in some ways offers redemption for Chris and for those who remain behind, insofar as it gives meaning to both his life and death.  His largely estranged family was obviously very cooperative with the author, and on first reflection, I was almost amazed at how cooperative they must have been, since the picture of their relationship with Chris--especially that of his parents--is not terribly positive.  But on balance, they too must have recognized that Krakauer's portrait of Chris would help g! ive some transcendentmeaning to both his life and death.	1998-07-19
US	52915825	RHY3JOA0X076S	0786705108	937039882	Faust's Metropolis: A History of Berlin	Books	5	34	38	N	N	Biography of a city and a prism on German history	This book, despite its length, was a compelling read, almost a page-turner.  Seldom does it lag.  The author writes well, and researched the book thoroughly.  She has an eye for the ironies of German history--one of the greatest being the Slavic origins of the German capital, one of the many facts of the German past which Hitler suppressed.  As a scion of the von Moltke family, she has some special insights to offer, and occasionally throws in a reflection on an ancestor or a bit of her own experience as a former Berlin resident.  (It would have been nice to know a bit more of her own history, since she often chimes in with pieces of it.)  As a good history should, this one reflects on the future, too--and the transcedent question of the meaning of Berlin as the once and future deutsche Hauptstadt.  As a German-American, I  have read many books of German history, but this is clearly one of the best.  It is full of new insights, and very cleverly uses Berlin itself as a ! prism through which to view German history.  It dispels the myth of the &quot;typical Berliner&quot;--given Berlin's relatively short history, most Berliners, even the famous ones, have reasonably short heritages in the city, and many came to Berlin from other parts of Germany or Europe--while presenting a fairly empathetic picture of the terrible times which Berliners have faced--including the post-WWI starvation and hyperflation, the Hitler tyranny, the ruthless Russian conquest, the oppression of the Russian occupation and the hope of the Berlin Airlift, the tragic division caused by the erection of die Schandemauer, and the heroic attempts at escape, culminating in the joy of November 9, 1989, when the wall came down.  I can wholeheartedly recommend this work to anyone interested in modern Germany or modern European history.	1998-07-19
US	52915825	R399WV3XL0KH00	0394585593	532759707	Whittaker Chambers: A Biography	Books	4	2	9	N	N	A solid biography of an era and one of its celebrities	Whittaker Chambers' rather seamy life up until his  celebrity as the betrayer of Alger Hiss is  presented in a capivating narrative that is as  much a biography of an era as of a man.  Tanenhaus  presents a cogent explanation of what drew Chambers to Communism in the first place as well as what  ultimately repelled him.  If anything, the  biography is a bit too sympathetic towards  Chambers--and a bit too anti-Alger Hiss.  Some of  the portraits of Chambers' later &quot;fellow travelers&quot; --including Richard Nixon, Joseph McCarthy, and  William F. Buckley--are quite insightful.  This book is an important addition to the history of a period that is becoming too rapidly forgotten.	1998-03-01
US	52915825	R2CO9X2J0DU4VC	0393037304	378572911	Robert E. Lee: A Biography	Books	4	11	13	N	N	Solid biography of Lee the man, short on military history	Thomas has given us a post-revisionist portrait of Lee that addresses the general as a human being much better than it presents him as a brilliant military strategist.  His complicated relationship with his rakish father, his sainted mother, his demanding wife, and his children are all central foci of the book; his relationships with those outside his family get relatively short shrift.  It is amazing how little of this book deals with the actual history of Lee's Civil War battles; more attention seems to be given to his involvement in the Mexican War.  Indeed, the book seems to give disproportionate attention to his life prior to the Civil War, with relatively lesser attention to what happened after he became commanding general of the Army of Northern Virginia.  Since the latter period is that in which he made his mark on history, this focus is rather disappointing.  But Thomas does a relatively able job of dispelling the image of Lee as &quot;the marble man,&quot; and for that, Civil War afficionados owe him a debt of gratitude.	1997-11-26
US	52915825	R1KYIR7GCYK5JH	0440304245	477593969	American Caesar	Books	5	23	23	N	N	An insightful, empathic biography of an enigmatic leader	Manchester always writes a great book--he is a superb stylist and has an unusual knack for placing a historical figure in the context of his times.  (I have previously read his biographies of H.L. Mencken and Churchill as well as Death of a President and The Arms of Krupp.)  In this book, he really attempts to explore what motivated Douglas MacArthur, an extremely complex warrior-statesman.  Especially good is his review of the famous Truman sacking of the general during the Korean War; in Manchester's eyes, this incident evolved out of ambiguous directions from the Joint Chiefs and the Chiefs' unwillingness to confront a powerful, winning senior officer.    Especially amazing is the breadth of experience MacArthur had throughout his life--from Wild West stations with his general father through the post-Spanish-American War period in the Philippines, then the trenches of World War I, and finally the general's phenomenal recoveries after early disasters in the Philippines in World War II and in Korea.  This is a balanced though sympathetic review of MacArthur's life--Manchester concedes that he was both a vain popinjay with a touch of paranoia, but also a brilliant military strategist and a true old-style liberal democrat in his viceregency in Japan after World War II.  This is  a &quot;must read&quot; for anyone interested in World War II and is a good companion to Manchester's personal account of his own experiences as a Marine in the South Pacific.	1997-11-26
US	52915825	R33MDGSGPDKW9G	068484477X	709347155	Stones from the River	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Book offers many insights into ordinary Germans during WW II.	My first thought on reading this book:  Is it only coincidental that the author has used a dwarf as a protagonist, as Guenter Grass did in &quot;The Tin Drum&quot;?  I still puzzle over the choice of main character.  Perhaps it is only to give the protagonist a sense of removal and perspective from the main action and the village of Burgdorf, where almost all the action takes place.  It was a clever way to introject the perspective of one person, but to keep her separate and apart, even isolated--though no more so than the Jews and other outcasts on whom the Nazis frowned and wreaked their wrath.  Perhaps the greatest strength of the book is the insights it gave into how ordinary Germans experienced Hitler's rise and fall, the Holocaust, World War II, and the early part of the &quot;Economic Miracle&quot; following the war.  There is much here that is reminiscent of Hannah Arendt's &quot;Eichmann in Jerusalem,&quot; with its emphasis on the &quot;banality of evil.&quot;  I was impressed, however, at how well integrated the Jews were into the society of this small town in the Rhineland until the horrors of Krystallnacht began to fray the threads of German society.  Indeed, the Catholics who were the majority in Burgdorf seemed to feel closer to the Jews than they did to the other Protestant minority.    I would heartily recommend this book as an epic tale, rich in symbolism and filled with memorable characters.  Unlike &quot;Hitler's Willing Executioners,&quot; another recent book about &quot;ordinary Germans&quot; during the Hitler period, this volume presents a more hopeful, less stereotyped and simplistic view of common German citizens.  I look forward, as a German-American with roots in the U.S. going back to the Revolution and the early 19th century, to the author's next work, which is to appear this summer, about what it means to be German in America.	1997-04-06
