US	52918371	R2XLPU2F0TN8DP	0918812453	871438448	Melba the Voice of Australia	Books	5	0	1	N	N	If you read only one Melba biography, let it be THIS one	Of all the Melba biographies, Therese Radic's is my favorite. Although she recounts facts and legends already recounted in the half-dozen Melba biographies that preceded hers, she has a more expansive view, seeing the big picture and placing Melba squarely in the context of her time and place. In addition to the work of Hetherington, Colson, Murphy and Moran (whose Melba compendium appeared at almost the same time as Radic's \\"Melba: The Voice of Australia&quot;), Radic seems to have had access to several individuals who knew Melba, at least one of whom remained anonymous. It was that source who supplied the fascinating information, published here for the first time, that Melba's fatal infection was the result of a facelift, from which she contracted erysipelas, not from some mysterious illness contracted on the Nile or watercress she ate in London.    Giving credit where it is due, Radic draws upon her predecessors, particularly upon Hetherington, who will always hold pride of place for being the first to sift through the accumulated and hazy Melba legend to get to the facts, but Radic always seems to be able to go a step further, to find another angle. For example, in discussing Melba's famous and fateful attempt at the \\"Siegfried\\" Brunhilde, Radic emphasizes that it was Melba's first role in German, her Elizabeth and Elsa being in French and Italian. For Melba, whose technique was based on Italian and French vowels, the foray into German may have been as deadly as the strenuous vocal demands of the role. Previous authors either pass over that fact quickly or omit it all together.     Radic compares versions of stories and suggests which might be more accurate and often uses side text to present extended quotes from other authors, paralleling her text with both alternate and supporting versions. Her prose is concise but never dry and the book is illustrated with numerous pictures. The Appendices include Melba's roles, dates of her performances at the MET, Oscar Hammerstein's Manhattan Opera House and Covent Garden as well as her tours in 1912-13 and 1913-14. Also included is a complete discography.    If you read only one Melba biography, this should be the one.	2004-07-25
US	52918371	R4P4XZ8QDVZGJ	044669133X	223439811	Shameless	Books	4	9	15	N	N	Mad romp through the seven deadly sins	Although I'd like to claim that the liberal dousing of four-letter words in \\"Shameless\\" left me blushing, it didn't. On the other hand, if you find detailed and somewhat lurid descriptions of body parts and functions distasteful, you may not find this book as entertaining and laugh-out-loud funny as I did.  All in all, reading this first novel by Paul Burston was rather like having an uninhibited, raucously humorous drama queen, who has no fear of using cliche-ridden narrative (\\"There is no Mr. Right...There is only Mr. Right Now\\"), relate the most recent dirt on mutual acquaintances.  I had such a person in mind, and heard his voice throughout. If you haven't such an acquaintance, or can't imagine one, you might find Burston's narrative over the top and just a bit tedious -- but then, so is my uninhibited acquaintance.<br />Martin, who \\"had always been considered fairly handsome (usually by straight women, admittedly)\\", is in his early thirties and believes he has an ideal life: a moderately well-paying job, a nice apartment and an attractive live-in boyfriend who shares expenses.  One evening, Christopher, the live-in, does not show up for a dinner he had scheduled with Martin.  After waiting awhile, Martin, thoroughly drunk, returns home to find that the dinner was a ruse to get him out of the house; Christopher is gone to live with his new love. With that, Martin's financial security evaporates, along with his emotional safety blanket. <br />Martin's first impulse is to call his best friend, Caroline, \\"a professional woman, the only woman in her family to have carved out any kind of decent life for herself, and she had the fat salary, the company car and the platinum American Express card to prove it.\\"  Fat and unattractive through her teen years, she has had virtually every part of her body massaged, relaxed, beaten or surgically enhanced into shape. Fate intervenes, however, when Martin realizes that Caroline has probably gone to bed. Instead, he calls John, agay flight attendant, or \\"trolly dolly\\" in gay parlance, whom Burston portrays as the epitome of gay self-absorption, and malice.  Had Martin reached Caroline first, the story might have taken a different direction. As it is, in his depressed state, he is vulnerable to John's less-than-sage advice, which is simply, to drown his sorrows in hedonism.  What follows is a mad romp through the seven deadly sins, with an emphasis on gluttony in the form of sex and drugs. <br />Although Martin's plight is at the center of the story, Burston parallels it with Caroline's relationship with Graham, whom she suspects of being gay, and John's with Fernando, the Brazilian drug dealer.  The three story-lines mingle, sit-com style: a medium-sized piece about one of the three main characters ends with a what-happens-then moment, and then switches to an episode with one of the other two.  Burston uses a variety of writerly techniques to join the episodes, which help minimize the bumps that could easily detract from that particular style. <br />Caroline and Martin emerge as alter-egos, who, were they to sit down and have a long talk, could offer each other sensible advice, and probably save each other some of the headache they eventually endure. No doubt, Martin could have illuminated Caroline on the mysterious C.L.A.G. and saved her the embarrassment of \\"outing\\" Graham to his best friend from college.  However, Burston cleverly keeps them apart until the seventeenth of nineteen chapters, after which, the story hurries to a satisfying, if slightly foreseeable, close, somewhat reminiscent of a morality play in which Everyman wins and the devil, in this case John, gets his due.<br />To fill out the story, Burston has a group of fully-developed supporting characters. Martin's would-be activist father adds comedy every time he appears. Among the gay characters are Neil, Martin's new roommate, who accidentally breaks the toilet by expelling two steel balls (you have to read it to believe it), David, a mooch who exchanges gossip for drugs and alcohol, and Ben, the sweet, if untidy, answer to Martin's woes.  <br />No doubt, Londoners, particularly gay Londoners, will catch some inside jokes that the rest of of miss.  Even so, I found \\"Shameless\\" to be a quick, very enjoyable read.	2004-07-08
US	52918371	R1ZQG3D7LO4ZF8	0522846971	651918600	Melba: Nellie Melba: A Biography (Australian Lives)	Books	5	5	7	N	N	Excellent portrait of a fascinating opera star	Before Hetherington's exhaustive study of the legendary opera star, Nellie Melba, the available resources ranged from exaggerated to false.  Not that Dame Nellie helped matters much; besides being a legendary singer, she had the marketing instincts of Martha Stewart and succeeded in creating quite a bit of self-myth that appeared and reappeared in newspapers, magazines and biographies. The 1909 biography by her secretary Agnes Murphy, a ghost-written autobiography by Beverly Nichols and a biography by Percy Colson, which appeared in 1932, a year after Melba's death, could all be described as  &quot;Melba's life the way she'd like us to remember it.&quot; Also in 1932, Nichols published &quot;Evensong&quot;, a novel whose unpleasant, selfish and domineering central character is obviously intended to be Melba. Within a year &quot;Evensong&quot; appeared as a play and a film.  A willing public accepted Nichols's fiction as fact. MGM's film, &quot;Melba&quot;, and a 1961 centenary biography by Joseph Wechberg did nothing to dispel the well-entrenched myth.  <br />Hetheringon succeeds in cutting away this accumulated legend to paint a balanced portrait of the complex Nellie Melba, a study well-grounded in solid research and primary sources.  In clear and very readable prose, he presents a woman with a superior vocal talent and intense ambition, a stubborn woman dedicated to hard work and convinced that if you wanted something done right, you had to do it yourself. That Hetherington has a detailed knowledge of his subject is obvious.  Occasionally he seems overly critical, though that may be an attempt to remain impartial.  <br />The book contains numerous photos of Melba, some posed and in costume, and a few candid, the latter scarce as Melba rarely allowed candid photos of herself. For anyone who would like a detailed portrait of this remarkable Australian, this is an excellent place to start.	2004-07-08
US	52918371	RU39GOCJ5JFLB	B00005XSB8	498293014	Red plush and black velvet; the story of Melba and her times	Books	2	5	8	N	N	Mildly entertaining, if exaggerated and inaccurate biography	In the mid '50s, Joseph Wechsberg made quite a splash with his Epicurean travelogue \\"Blue Trout and Black Truffles.\\"  Exactly why he then turned to operatic biography is not clear. The result: \\"Red Plush and Black Velvet: The Story of Nellie Melba and Her Times\\" suggests that he was looking for a framework on which he might hang some rambling operatic essays and, finding ample anecdote about the legendary Australian diva, choose her as the unlucky victim. As a reliable biography of opera prima donna, Nellie Melba, this volume is a failure. As a book about a fictional prima donna, it is mildly entertaining, if exaggerated.<br />Appearing in 1961, the centenary of Melba's birth, this might have been a fitting tribute to the great Australian singer. Instead, it is a collection of rehashed Melba anecdotes and myths upon which the author has superimposed his essays on female singers, the operatic claque, proper behavior in the opera house and opera-hearing audiences in general.  These ramblings reflect little about Melba or her times, and quite a bit about Wechsberg and his. Melba's beloved Australia takes second place to his beloved Vienna; her business-like approach to her career disappears behind his rose-tinted view of the prima donna's world.  <br />Wechsberg relies heavily on Melba's autobiography (ghost-written by the venomous Beverly Nicholas, who went on to write a thinly veiled portrait of her in his novel \\"Evensong\\") and articles both by and about her.  He repeats the accepted lore, e.g., the \\"sing 'em muck\\" story about Melba's advice to Dame Clara Butt before she left on an Australian tour, without question.  Some of his errors stem from Melba's own invention; her talents as a creator of myth barely seconded her supreme talents as singer and businesswoman. For example, \\"she waited until her child, a boy named George, was born. Two months later, she left her husband and the house in the bush, and ... never went back to that house or to her husband\\" is hardly areflection of fact.  Melba's husband accompanied Melba, her father and her son to England a couple of years later.  And while she may have eventually \\"told her friends in Australia that she later had to unlearn everything Signor Cecchi taught her\\", in letters she wrote to Cecchi after she arrived in London, she expresses her gratitude for what he had taught her.  The nine months she spent studying with Madame Marchesi before her operatic debut in Brussels were hardly sufficient time for her to become confident in an entirely new vocal technique. <br />Occasionally, Wechsberg's errors are just plain funny. \\"Inevitably many opera singers talk about themselves all the time, even in their sleep, often to the detriment of their vocal chords.\\" When he compares Jeritza and Lehmann nights in Vienna to \\"a capacity crowd and with as much tension as Yankee Stadium before a world's heavyweight championship fight,\\" one can only assume he meant Madison Square Garden.  Or did he mean fights among baseball fans rooting for competing teams? <br />Fortunately, several well-researched books followed Wechsberg's effort.  John Hetherington wrote en enlightening biography of Dame Nellie in 1967, going back to original source material and dispelling much of the myth that surrounded the great singer. Therese Radic took Melba research another step forward in 1986.  She was the first to report that Melba's fatal infection was not a mysterious infection contracted on an Egypt trip, but septicemia following a secret visit to a European clinic for a facelift.  William Moran's anthology of original source material, ranging from biographical sketches to newspaper reports to personal interviews gives the most detailed portrait of this fascinating singer, though not in the chronological order of a biography. Anyone interested in the fascinating Nellie Melba needs to look no further than these three volumes. Wechsberg's volume pales in comparison, a parody of a great performer.	2004-06-15
US	52918371	R22QO0DGY3NVSY	0743227441	512398584	The Other Boleyn Girl	Books	4	3	6	N	N	Intrigue in the Tudor Courts	With just a little too much romance to be historical novels and far too much history to be romance novels, Philippa Gregory defies categories in her two immensely readable and wonderfully informative stories of 16th century England: \\"The Other Boleyn Girl\\" and \\"The Queen's Fool.\\"  That she is able to saturate her novels with history is less surprising when one realizes that she has a history degree from the University of Sussex and a PhD in eighteenth-century literature from the University of Edinburgh, but that she is able to bring history to life with such apparent ease and without breaking the rhythm of her narrative is most impressive.<br />Mary Boleyn, Anne's sister, narrates the first, chronologically, of these two books: \\"The Other Boleyn Girl.\\"  She is Henry VIII's mistress and bears him two children before her more famous sister, Anne, usurps her place.  Historically, that is fact, at least the first part is.  Whether Anne actually connived to unseat her sister is less clear, though Gregory certainly gives a convincing case of \\"what-if?\\"  Beginning with Henry's attentions to Mary, the story continues through a rumble of bedding, wedding, and ultimately Anne's beheading.  Along the way Gregory paints a picture of a court in which everyone must look over his shoulder constantly, marriages are made for convenience and political alliances, and men, whether father, brother or husband, control women and use them as pawns in a risky game of power.  One sister resists, the other cooperates. From the beginning, Gregory paints a picture of sisterly rivalry weighed against sisterly love.  Ultimately, sisterly love wins, though the rivalry proves Anne's undoing.<br />Gregory continues the two themes of sisterly love and rivalry and women obeying (or not obeying, as the case may be) men in \\"The Queen's Fool.\\"  With the rivalry, and sometimes love, between Henry's two daughters, Mary and Elizabeth as historical background, Gregory tells the story of Hannah Green, a Jewish refuge from the Spanish Inquisition who, after seeing her mother burned at the stake, flees with her father to England where he sets up shop as a bookseller. Hannah, who narrates the tale, has the gift of \\"sight\\", that is, she has visions that come unbidden and reveal the future to her.  It is one of those visions that, early in the story, lands her in court during the short reign of Edward VI and, after his death, leaves her as a pawn batted back and forth between Mary and Elizabeth.  Hannah has the ability to see the best in both and, as much as possible, is loyal to both, no mean feat given that each princess see herself as destined for the throne of England.  To complicate matters, Hannah is betrothed to another Jewish refuge, who like her, must keep his ancestry a secret.  She is torn between her desire for independence and her passion for her intended husband.  How she eventually reconciles the two is the meat of the novel.<br />Gregory's narrative is engrossing, her conversations engaging.  Among her previous fourteen books is a trilogy that includes \\"Wideacre\\", \\"The Favored Child\\" and \\"Meridon.\\"  Dare we hope that she will follow \\"The Other Boleyn Girl\\" and \\"The Queen's Fool\\" with a third partner, focusing on Elizabeth?	2004-06-05
US	52918371	R8ZHKKGGDG5SO	0743246071	237333289	The Queen's Fool	Books	4	6	7	N	N	Intrigue in the Tudor Courts	With just a little too much romance to be historical novels and far too much history to be romance novels, Philippa Gregory defies categories in her two immensely readable and wonderfully informative stories of 16th century England: \\"The Other Boleyn Girl\\" and \\"The Queen's Fool.\\"  That she is able to saturate her novels with history is less surprising when one realizes that she has a history degree from the University of Sussex and a PhD in eighteenth-century literature from the University of Edinburgh, but that she is able to bring history to life with such apparent ease and without breaking the rhythm of her narrative is most impressive.<br />Mary Boleyn, Anne's sister, narrates the first, chronologically, of these two books: \\"The Other Boleyn Girl.\\"  She is Henry VIII's mistress and bears him two children before her more famous sister, Anne, usurps her place.  Historically, that is fact, at least the first part is.  Whether Anne actually connived to unseat her sister is less clear, though Gregory certainly gives a convincing case of \\"what-if?\\"  Beginning with Henry's attentions to Mary, the story continues through a rumble of bedding, wedding, and ultimately Anne's beheading.  Along the way Gregory paints a picture of a court in which everyone must look over his shoulder constantly, marriages are made for convenience and political alliances, and men, whether father, brother or husband, control women and use them as pawns in a risky game of power.  One sister resists, the other cooperates. From the beginning, Gregory paints a picture of sisterly rivalry weighed against sisterly love.  Ultimately, sisterly love wins, though the rivalry proves Anne's undoing.<br />Gregory continues the two themes of sisterly love and rivalry and women obeying (or not obeying, as the case may be) men in \\"The Queen's Fool.\\"  With the rivalry, and sometimes love, between Henry's two daughters, Mary and Elizabeth as historical background, Gregory tells the story of Hannah Green, a Jewish refuge from the Spanish Inquisition who, after seeing her mother burned at the stake, flees with her father to England where he sets up shop as a bookseller. Hannah, who narrates the tale, has the gift of \\"sight\\", that is, she has visions that come unbidden and reveal the future to her.  It is one of those visions that, early in the story, lands her in court during the short reign of Edward VI and, after his death, leaves her as a pawn batted back and forth between Mary and Elizabeth.  Hannah has the ability to see the best in both and, as much as possible, is loyal to both, no mean feat given that each princess see herself as destined for the throne of England.  To complicate matters, Hannah is betrothed to another Jewish refuge, who like her, must keep his ancestry a secret.  She is torn between her desire for independence and her passion for her intended husband.  How she eventually reconciles the two is the meat of the novel.<br />Gregory's narrative is engrossing, her conversations engaging.  Among her previous fourteen books is a trilogy that includes \\"Wideacre\\", \\"The Favored Child\\" and \\"Meridon.\\"  Dare we hope that she will follow \\"The Other Boleyn Girl\\" and \\"The Queen's Fool\\" with a third partner, focusing on Elizabeth?h refuge from the Spanish Inquisition who, after seeing her mother burned at the stake, flees with her father to England where he sets up shop as a bookseller. Hannah, who narrates the tale, has the gift of \\"sight\\", that is, she has visions that come unbidden and reveal the future to her.  It is one of those visions that, early in the story, lands her in court during the short reign of Edward VI and, after his death, leaves her as a pawn batted back and forth between Mary and Elizabeth.  Hannah has the ability to see the best in both and, as much as possible, is loyal to both, no mean feat given that each princess see herself as destined for the throne of England.  To complicate matters, Hannah is betrothed to another Jewish refuge, who like her, must keep his ancestry a secret.  She is torn between her desire for independence and her passion for her intended husband.  How she eventually reconciles the two is the meat of the novel.<br />Gregory's narrative is engrossing, her conversations engaging.  Among her previous fourteen books is a trilogy that includes \\"Wideacre\\", \\"The Favored Child\\" and \\"Meridon.\\"  Dare we hope that she will follow \\"The Other Boleyn Girl\\" and \\"The Queen's Fool\\" with a third partner, focusing on Elizabeth?	2004-06-05
US	52918371	RUJGVGRJ62LN4	0198607024	94235009	The Meaning of Everything: The Story of the Oxford English Dictionary	Books	5	9	10	N	N	Concise history of the OED	Immediately after I finished undergraduate school, some thirty years ago, I joined a book club, finally free to read for pleasure once again.  In exchange for ordering x-number of books and promising to buy several more over the coming year, I received a bonus: a micro-print edition of the Oxford English Dictionary, two large blue volumes with print just large enough that the naked eye could recognize it as print, but small enough that one could not read it comfortably without the magnifying glass that came in its own box and drawer at the top of the box.  Although I was familiar with the OED, this was my first extended exposure to its riches.  I was fascinated with the many illustrative quotes drawn from English literature.  What surprises me now is that I had so little curiosity about who collected all those quotes.  Who read all the books necessary to find all those sentences?  And how did they catalogue them?<br />Simon Winchester answers both questions (volunteers all over the world to the first, and specially built pigeon holes to the second) and many, many more in his short, but informative \\"The Meaning of Everything.\\"  In lucid prose, with just enough humorous anecdote to moisten what could have been dry facts, he traces the history of the OED from its inception in a speech to the Philological Society in 1857 to its first complete printing in 1928 and then through its various revisions and expansions, including my micro-print edition.  <br />Along the way, he drops in character sketches of some of the major players, describes some of the major predecessor dictionaries, offers some almost unbelievable statistics and compares the OED to its peers (if one admits any exist) in other countries, always with a gentle sense of humor.  He shows admirable discretion and restraint in selecting his examples.  Rather than attempt sketches of all the various types of volunteers, for example, he contents himself with portraits of a few representatives, and includes a listof some of the more colorful and evocative names to stimulate the reader's imagination.<br />If you use the OED regularly, or even occasionally, you may be as fascinated as I at how long it took to finish, and that the project was almost abandoned - several times.  If you are not familiar with the OED, this history should be sufficient to entice you into finding a copy to peruse	2004-06-04
US	52918371	R3VXS16E2DN8L7	0385337116	520405863	The Rule of Four	Books	4	6	8	N	N	Engrossing story, if only I could pronounce Hypernotomachia	The final sixty pages of this novel kept me awake past my bedtime, but with a satisfying payoff in the last three. My involvement in those pages took me off guard, not least because about two-thirds of the way through the story, I realized that I really did not like several of the central characters and cared little what happened to them. Even so, the unraveling mystery of the &quot;Hypernotomachia Poliphili&quot; (H.P.), the obtuse 15th Century manuscript that is the subject of Paul's senior paper, and the increasingly complex mystery of who murdered whom, who is double-crossing whom and who will be left standing at the end, kept me reading.  <br />On the one hand, the authors have an asset in the H.P. Its complexity lends itself to multiple interpretations while its obscurity prevents most readers from having an opinion about its meaning.  On the other hand, without ready access to the original H.P. text, most of us do not share any &quot;a-ha&quot; satisfaction when Paul and Tom crack each of the riddles. We lack the tools to reason along with, or ahead of them and, consequently, we find it hard to identify with either their commitment to the exercise or their joy in solving the mystery.  (Though, having recently read &quot;The Birth of Venus&quot;, I was quite pleased with myself for solving one bit of the puzzle long before either Paul or Tom did.) Ultimately, however, this is not so much a novel about cracking the mystery of the &quot;Hypnerotomachia Poliphili&quot; as it is a study in relationships: friends, lovers, families, mentors and how one balances commitments and entanglements. That is a topic familiar to most readers and the one that kept me reading even when I had become highly exasperated with several of those central to the plot.<br />Tom's first-person narrative, alternating as it does between present-, recent-past- and distant-past, sometimes annoys, though, on balance, it allows the authors to feed out the story in bits and pieces, hooking the reader and then reeling him in, at an author-determined pace. At the very least, that alternation does not significantly detract from the story.  Anyone who has a working knowledge of 15th Century history or knows the Princeton campus would do well to read the authors' note before beginning the novel, as they take creative license with both.<br />This is an intriguing novel, a good summer read, though if you can get through it without referring to an encyclopedia or the web once or twice, you're a better man than I.	2004-06-03
US	52918371	R3BPV6OWZO5T4M	0060523417	749699034	The New York Chronology: The Ultimate Compendium of Events, People, and Anecdotes from the Dutch to the Present	Books	5	5	5	N	Y	Impressive achievement	Impressive achievement<br />What a great gift for someone who thinks he knows everything there is to know about New York -- or wishes he did. The sheer amount of information here is impressive, and would be daunting except that the layout is so easy to follow.  Years appear at the top of each page for quick reference and handy symbols alert the reader to category of information in each entry within the year: e.g., music, transportation, everyday life, theater.  (Page numbers are at the bottom.)<br />The index is detailed and easy to use once you realize that a given church will be listed under &quot;churches&quot; or your favorite hotel under &quot;hotels.&quot;<br />The major delight in the chronological arrangement is that the reader can put each entry into its historical perspective. I was very interested to learn, for example that Trinity Church on 5th Avenue and Intercession at 155th were completed the same year, by the same architect.<br />As might be expected, the bulk of the information covers the 20th Century.  Trager dispenses with the early years in about twenty pages and reaches the 20th Century in a couple hundred.  Even so, he does not slight detail in those earlier years.<br />Most readers who are already familiar with Manhattan will probably have a couple of topics they will use to check for accuracy.  Mine is Minniesland/Audubon Park.  Trager scores points.  He gives John J. Audubon several entries and mentions the Minniesland purchase as well as Audubon's death and Madame Audubon selling the original prints to the New York Historical Society.  Trager appears to have made an error in acreage, however, (possibly a typo) writing that Audubon bought 24 acres in 1841 and sold 23 of them to Richard Carman in 1843 (who then sold them to Trinity Church for use as a cemetery, which still exists).  That would have left Audubon with only one acre, which is a quick look at an historic map will show is not correct.  The 24 acres should probably be 42 acres to leave enough for the land that became Minniesland and later Audubon Park.<br />As another reviewer has already mentioned, with this much information, that sort of error is to be expected, and can be corrected in future editions, which this delightful book fully deserves.<br />Despite the blips, this is a great addition to anyone's New York history shelf.o leave enough for the land that became Minniesland and later Audubon Park.<br />As another reviewer has already mentioned, with this much information, that sort of error is to be expected, and can be corrected in future editions, which this delightful book fully deserves.<br />Despite the blips, this is a great addition to anyone's New York history shelf.	2004-03-04
US	52918371	R31CXJP5HHCKIA	0786868716	891971809	The Five People You Meet In Heaven	Books	5	3	5	N	N	Direct, honest story about an ordinary man	While I read \\"The Five People You Meet in Heaven\\" I was struck by a rather pleasant resemblance to Jonathon \\"Livingstone Seagull\\" (showing my age here, aren't I) and \\"All I Ever Needed to Know I learned in Kindergarten.\\" Each of these books has the I-knew-this-already-but-this-author-sure-says-it-better-than-I-could factor.<br />In this case, what I knew already and Albom says better is that all lives are interconnected - a twenty-first century variation on \\"no man is an island.\\"<br />Albom starts with the death of a very ordinary person, 83-year-old Eddie who is the head maintenance man at a place called Ruby Point Amusement Park.  From the first lines, we know that Eddie is going to die - soon.  Albom tells us that.  But, it's what happens next that is important, what happens to Eddie when he gets to heaven.<br />There, he starts his journey to reconciliation and peace.  To do that, he meets five people, who are in various stages of their own journeys.  Each of the five had passed through Eddie's life, changing it, or being changed by it.<br />It is a wonderfully told story, simple direct and very honest. Albom treads carefully between inspiration and sentimentality.  He intersperses Eddie's experiences in heaven with vignettes from his life.  Rather like the little pieces of a picture puzzle, all of these bits of information eventually come together in a portrait of Eddie, an ordinary man who never realized what effect he was having on those who crossed his path.<br />This is a quick read, possibly in one sitting, but extremely enjoyable - a good gift item for those friends who like a bit of contemplative reading.	2003-11-21
US	52918371	R2TS5WQ18N6LVZ	0871138743	758410541	Triangle: The Fire That Changed America	Books	5	28	30	N	N	Social history at its best	David Von Drehle's &quot;Triangle&quot; is social history at its best.  He re-examines this tragic event, which had been relocated to a footnote in history, and places it in a broad historical context.  He minimizes the sensational aspects of the tragedy and fully illuminates the social conditions that led to it, as well as workplace and political changes that flowed from it.  That is not to say, however, that he does not fully describe the horrors of the fire, the falling bodies, the charred remains or the quirks of fate that saved one victim and doomed another. In the central chapters of the book, his vigorous prose projects the reader right into the heart of the fire.<br />In the first part of the book, Von Drehle examines the victims of the fire that broke out shortly before quitting time at the Triangle Shirtwaist (i.e., blouse) factory on Saturday, March 25, 1911.  Who were they? Why did the come to America?  Why did they take factory jobs instead of domestic jobs? Where did they live?  What did they wear? What did they do in their spare time?  Von Drehle brings these people and their neighborhoods to life.<br />Nor does he ignore, or spare, the management.  Immigrants and textile workers themselves, Max Blanck and Isaac Harris had risen in the world and owned a series of factories, as they called these sweatshops.  Von Drehle details the tactics they used to resistance to unions and break strikes.  He describes some of their cost-saving practices (including cheating workers out of earned wages) and provides convincing evidence that they had a history of torching their own workshops at the end of the season to collect the insurance on unsold merchandise.  If so, Von Drehle reasons that since the Triangle Fire occurred near the end of the season, Blanck and Harris might have been warehousing unsold garments at the Triangle shop, which would have added fuel and death to the conflagration.  Locked doors, bins full of flammable material, insufficient water, a flimsy fire escape and non-existant fire procedures all added to the disaster.  When we learn, in the last section of the book, that Blanck and Harris were brought to trial, but then acquitted, we feel righteous indignation along with the survivors and mourners of the victims.  <br />Von Drehle's research is extensive; nothing seems to escape his attention. He describes the high-society women who gave emotional and financial support to strikers and then fell away after they realized the anti-capitalist sentiments of some of the leaders.  He contrasts the social conditions of the immigrants from Eastern Europe (mainly Jewish) with those from Italy (mainly Catholic), conditions that these immigrants brought with them and that affected their responses to the union movement and to the workplace in general.  And, he describes living conditions, including a concise explanation of a typical tenement.<br />The Appendix includes a list and brief description of each of the known victims, apparently the only complete list ever assembled.  What a fitting memorial to these workers.<br />This is a engrossing read, well-written and authoritative.	2003-10-08
US	52918371	RLFX2LMHULX3A	0785261044	408110128	Journalistic Fraud: How the New York Times Distorts the News and Why It Can No Longer Be Trusted	Books	4	89	99	N	N	Enlightening as well as entertaining	The New York Times must loath readers like Bob Kohn. He doesn't read just the headlines and the leads, he reads entire articles.  Not only does he read the entire article, he analyzes what he has read.  His analysis has led him to a conclusion similar to that of many faithful Times readers: the newspaper of record is editorializing under the guise of hard news. But, where most of us make the observation and grumble, Mr. Kohn has written a book, and a convincing one at that.  The bonus is that a conscientious reader can use Kohn's analysis when reading any newspaper, whether far left, far right or moderate.  Kohn is very clear about several points right up front -- and reiterates them throughout: 1) he is a dedicated NYT reader, 2) he has no objection to the NYT, or any newspaper, editorializing on the Op-Ed pages or in articles that are clearly marked \\"analysis\\" but heartily objects to editorializing in articles that purport to be hard news and 3) he believes -- and makes a good case to back his belief -- that the NYT has strayed far from its founding principles to \\"give the news impartially, without fear or favor, regardless of party, sect or interests involved.\\"<br />As the first step in his analysis, Kohn takes the reader through the basics of hard news writing and objectivity.  Then, using quotes from NYT articles, he demonstrates how a writer can introduce subjectivity (i.e., opinion) through manipulation of the Who, What, When, Where, Why and How of a hard news article.  From there, he explores various other techniques, including misleading headlines, distorted leads, burying information at the end of an article or \\"below the fold\\" and polls -- always using NYT quotes as illustration.  He is convincing.  Actually, he is very convincing.<br />One of the most fascinating parallels he draws is between NYT coverage of the present Bush administration with that of the Nixon administration and Watergate, when the NYT admirably stuck to the facts without embellishment.  Granted, the facts were damning in themselves and needed no embellishment, but that is exactly Kohn's point: let the facts to the damning, not the ideological beliefs of the writer or publisher.<br />Back in the '80s, I read a very popular book, \\"Hidden Persuaders\\", analyzed techniques (and tricks) the advertising industry uses to sell products.  Although some of the book seemed to be a bit over-the-top and, at times, reaching to make a point, after reading it, I have never viewed an advertisement quite the same way.  \\"Journalistic Fraud\\" packs the same wallop: on occasion, Kohn goes over the top and appears to be more conservative than the moderate he claims to be, but having read it, I will never read a newspaper article (in the NYT or elsewhere) with quite the same innocence.  That is good.	2003-10-04
US	52918371	R3H0XFL0RUKRA2	0375508368	817481243	Morningside Heights: A Novel	Books	3	9	13	N	N	Good narrative, mediocre writing (and research)	In her first novel -- which is purportedly the first of a trilogy -- Cheryl Mendelson beautifully captures the obnoxious self-absorption and self-righteousness that is exemplified by certain intellectual elites that populate the upper West Side. Whether that is intentional or merely an autobiographical slant is up for debate. Chief among this unsavory crew is the focal character,  Anne Braithwaite, an accomplished and presumably extraordinarily talented pianist who foresakes her career to raise a family (three chilrden with another on the way). Her accomplice in this is one of the two completely likeable character, her opera-singer husband, Charles. (The other is their second daughter, the only character in the novel who seems to think logically.) Whether Anne's real motives were raising a family or escaping the competitive and tough world of musical performance is something Mendelson leaves to the reader's imagination.  Perhaps she will address that further in parts two and three.  <br />Wandering in and out of the Braithwaites' lives and apartment, are a cast of characters that include the usual irritating suspects: scholars, professors, analysts, a handful of eccentrics, newly arrived money (the bad guys, of course) and an elderly resident whose death provides the rather obvious solution to the crisis of the story: will Anne and her family (though their feelings do not appear to be nearly as important as hers, wonderful mother though she may be) have to move from her beloved Upper West Side to (gasp) the suburbs or (double-gasp) the country?  As with most UWSiders of her ilk, Anne seems to have traveled little and hasn't a clue what actually lies outside Manhattan.  Mendelson's ending leaves hope that Anne may learn better -- but don't count on it. (Enough of my opinion on that subject.)<br />Mendelson tells a fairly good story.  That does not, however, save her from some very annoying habits, habits that a good editor might have easily corrected. Lacking any defining characteristics, the stock characters of the doty widower, the befuddled elderly woman, the stockbroker with a cellphone glued to his ear and the savvy superintendent remain just that: stock; they have no more depth or authenticity than the cardboard from which they are cut.  And, for some inexplicable reason, Ms. Mendelson does not seem content to let a bus simply travel across town.  While you read this book, keep a running list of the many verbs she uses for a bus's movement, most of them forced metaphors.  Her descriptions also tend toward the hackneyed (\\"steaming platter\\"  or was it \\"heaping platter\\"?).  <br />But, my biggest complaint is that Ms. Mendelson has chosen to write a book that focuses on a profession (opera-singer) and a location (Morningside Heights), and apparently has done superficial research at best.  Within the first pages, she describes Charles as a secondary baritone at the Metropolitan Opera who is destined always to sing Leporello never the Don (she is referring to Mozart's \\"Don Giovanni\\").  Leporello is a bass role.  Historically, the Met has assigned that role to either a first-class basso buffo (like Baccaloni or Flagello) or, more recently, to a first class basso cantante (like Terfel or Furlanetto, who can and do also sing the role of Giovanni).  Later in the story, Charles actually does sing the Don -- at a Sunday night performance.  A what?  The Met has not had regular Sunday performances in decades (this book takes place in the late '90s), and when it did have regular Sunday evening performances, they were concerts, not fully-staged operas. Research is just as important in fiction as in non-fiction, as Ms. Mendelson should know from her non-fiction background.<br />As for Morningside Heights, it is so central to the novel as to warrant being its title. The first few pages of the novel, when Ms. Mendelson gives a thumbnail description of Morningside Heights's history, are both the best written (lacking the superfluous adjectives and forced metaphors) and most accurate.  Life goes down hill from there. Perhaps we can forgive Ms. Mendlson her inventive creation of a church -- she probably wanted to avoid any legal complications by referring to one of the more famous ones that are actually in Morningside Heights and it did give her a chance for some nice imagery, albeit, again, somewhat forced.  But a cemetery?  Where is there room for one either in the real Morningside Heights or in Ms. Mendelson's fictional one? In truth, only one cemetery in Manhattan still accepts bodies for burial (ashes, rather): Trinity at 155th between Riverside Drive and Amsterdam -- with Broadway running through it.  That is close enough to Morningside Heights that Ms. Mendelson could have used it to great effect, certainly to better effect than a cemetery that appears to have been  invented solely as a  plotting device.<br />Before she writes parts two and three of the Morningside Heights trilogy,  maybe Ms. Mendelson research local history (and geography) a bit further and take the time to interview a couple of real performers.  A good story is one thing; convincing, authentic sense of place is something altogether different.  Ms. Mendelson has grasped the former; time will tell what she can do with the latter.	2003-10-03
US	52918371	R2HP0KXAZZBG1P	0670032476	701597987	Heavenly Days	Books	5	15	17	N	N	Tula Springs revisited	&quot;Heavenly Days&quot; is cause for rejoicing among James Wilcox's fans, a new and long-awaited installment to life in Tula Springs, Louisiana.  Is it really twenty years since Wilcox introduced us to this quaint little town just across the border from Mississippi (where virtually everyone goes to shop at the mall)?  <br />The pleasure of reading &quot;Heavenly Days&quot;, which has all the comedy, eccentric characters and mix-ups as the preceding four novels set in Tula Springs, sent me back to the beginning to re-read those four books (&quot;Modern Baptists,&quot; &quot;North Gladiola,&quot; &quot;Miss Undine's Living Room&quot; and &quot;Sort of Rich&quot;).  Maybe it was the desire to reacquaint myself with Bobby (Carl Robert) Pickens, Mayor Binswanger, the Keelys, the Quaids and Burma (whatever her last name is at the moment), all of whom appear in the newest installment to the drama that is Tula Springs. Maybe it was the desire to experience again Wilcox's enviable ability to find exactly the right word for maximum comic impact.  Or maybe it was the desire to go back to visit a pleasant, if somewhat dysfunctional place.  <br />Wilcox's characters appear and reappear as if they are members of a repertory company; the star of one has a walk-on, or perhaps only a mention, in another. That is not to say that one must read all of the preceding books to enjoy this one.  As a stand-alone piece, it works beautifully.  But reading the preceding books adds another level of enjoyment -- and history -- to the experience of reading each individually. <br />Maybe that's why Lou Jones, the star of &quot;Heavenly Days&quot;, seems so familiar.  Her name does not appear in any of the previous installments, (at least not in a form that I recognized) but we just know that she has been there in Tula Springs all along.  Perhaps she was one of shoppers at the Winn Dixie or maybe she was at the courthouse paying a fine to the Citizens Patrol (which is now replaced by a security firm).  Like Mrs. Coco in &quot;North Gladiola&quot;, Lou has reached mid-life and feels a bit left behind.  Unlike Mrs. Coco, Lou has perfected the ability to live in a state of denial.  Once a month, she gets up at 4.30 a.m. to write a column for the North American Bassoon Society newsletter, even though she has not played bassoon in several years.  While she waits and hopes for a job teaching music at the local community college, she works as the receptionist at WaistWatchers, a fundamentalist health spa, all the while doubting the viability of shedding pounds for Jesus. She and her husband are living in separate houses, but they are not -- as she continually and emphatically asserts -- having marital problems. And, Lou ignores signals her body is sending her -- even though the reader can not -- signals that take her right into the final scene. Wilcox treats Lou with humor, but he never lets us loose sight of her bewilderment in the face of a world that seems to be going on without her.<br />We can always count on Wilcox for zany humor and mad-cap fun. We can also count on him to explore human relationships and foibles.  In the first three Tula Springs books, the balance was more towards the former, so that even though the events of &quot;Miss Undine's Living Room&quot; centered on a possible murder, the tone remained light and farcical.  In &quot;Sort of Rich&quot; Wilcox turned more dramatic, in a story that had moments of real foreboding and suggestions of foul play.  Now, in &quot;Heavenly Days&quot; he has found a new balance.  We laugh at Lou, but we also worry about her -- and for good reason.  She is a bit lost in a world that she has helped create for herself and, apparently, only sees one way out.  Wilcox takes us there with her.<br />With &quot;Heavenly Days&quot;, Wilcox has scored again.  Hurray!	2003-10-01
US	52918371	R16LB9NS0XAZLE	0425176096	713918203	The Other Side of Ethel Mertz: The Life Story of Vivian Vance	Books	4	28	30	N	N	The best second banana in the business	She chaffed when people called her Ethel in public places, sometimes even exploding in anger, especially if they asked where Fred was.  (&quot;He's dead, thank God,&quot; was her reply in later years after he died.) Her blessing was her curse.  Vivian Vance was such a fine actress, she convinced TV's millions that she was Ethel Mertz.  Only a small percentage of her audience ever saw her on stage or in remembered her few forays onto the big screen, so we might be forgiven for not realizing how talented she really was.  With the recently released &quot;Ball of Fire&quot; Lucy fans might want to read about Ball's talented side-kick.<br />Vance had a successful acting career before that fateful evening when Desi Arnaz first saw her on stage in La Jolla, and would continue her stage career after her years as Lucy's sidekick (Vivian Bagley in The Lucy Show and Here's Lucy being but a prettier, more sophisticated version of Ethel).  Most Lucy fans already know quite a bit about those years from the many books about Lucy, but this concise book fills in what happened before and after.  <br />The authors do an excellent sleuthing job.  They highlight Vance's religious upbringing and trace some of her later emotional problems to her conflict arising from desire to be on the stage and her mother's admonitions that it was the road to perdition.  They cover her early experiences on the stage in New York and then in New Mexico as well as her few films.  From this, they illustrate her versatility and trace the roots of some of her funniest moments on &quot;I Love Lucy.&quot;<br />Only in the bibliography do we learn that they most of the extended quotes are from Vance's unpublished memoirs. Unwilling to reveal names or hurt anyone, she offered little cooperation to her assigned ghost writer and the project fell through.  That's a pity, given the viewpoint she had in one of TV's greatest comedy series and what she reveals about herself in the excerpts.  This was one courageous woman who had more than a little business savvy.<br />No matter though, her excellent work as one of the most famous second-bananas in show business speaks for itself.	2003-09-04
US	52918371	R498V3PKV3FQ5	0786860073	51175589	Lucille: The Life of Lucille Ball	Books	5	22	24	N	N	My favorite book about my favorite commedienne	When I was ten and heard that Lucy and Desi were divorcing, I was devastated.  No one in my little village had ever divorced, and I did not know anyone who knew anyone who had.  So, Lucy and Ricky, who were interchangeable in my mind with Lucy and Desi, were the first people I &quot;knew&quot; who took that drastic step.  I couldn't figure out how they could be so happy on TV and still want to split.  <br />A few years later, when Lucy returned to television, along with Ethel, rechristened as Vivian, I kept longing for DesiRicky to show up.  Of course he didn't.  Later, I saw some of her early movies and became one of the three people in the US who loved her on the screen as Mame. Even though I appreciated her skill and talent, for me, she was always Lucy Riccardo.  Somewhere along the line, though, I realized that Lucille Ball was more complex than her TV counterpart.<br />Of the half-dozen books I've read about Lucy, which include the newly-released &quot;Ball of Fire&quot;, a couple of the books about the series, and Vance's biography, Kathleen Brady's is my favorite. She comes closest to cracking the code, finding what drove Lucille Ball to the top of her profession.<br />Brady treats her subject tenderly, but does whitewash the harder side of her character. Rather, she tries to bring the apparently incompatible parts of her personality together into one whole, very understandable person.  As much as is possible, she succeeds.<br />Where she is sure of details, she gives them.  Where she is not, she offers alternate possibilities, for example, the unknown cause of Ball's paralysis that sent her home from NY and to bed for months or, on the more humorous side, exactly what happened the night that Tallulah Bankhead decided to disrobe during a production meeting of the LucyDesi Comedy Hour. <br />Well-researched and well-written, this is mandatory reading for any die-hard Lucy fan and an excellent choice for anyone who intends reading only one book about America'smost famous comedienne.	2003-09-04
US	52918371	RJHVAUXDL4SAW	0375413154	239430741	Ball of Fire: The Tumultuous Life and Comic Art of Lucille Ball	Books	4	6	7	N	N	If you love Lucy, you might want to skip this book	By now, die-hard Lucy fans know about her early years as a model, her career in Hollywood as the queen of the B-pictures and her attempts to save her marriage by including her ever-wandering, hot-tempered husband, Desi, in the proposed TV show based on her successful radio show.  We know that she was a complicated woman, driven to succeed, a person who would now be called a workaholic and that she credited Desi with being the brains of the operation.  She could be arrogant and demanding and she could be loving.  She was larger than life. <br />And, we know about her intricate, not always happy relationship with Vivian Vance, her perpetual second banana.  That Ethel and Fred did not get along off camera is not new, nor is the birth of Little Ricky on stage and the conflict that caused for the real Desi, Jr.  Lucy fans already have read, and probably have in their collections, the various biographies and histories of I Love Lucy - not to mention a few pieces of memorabilia. <br />So, what can Stefan Kanfer offer that we have not read before? Actually, not much. While \\"Ball of Fire\\" a readable and farily well organized,  Kanfer covers much the same ground we have been over before, particularly in \\"Lucille\\" Kathleen Brady's authoritative study of this comic legend.  <br />His individual twist, which, to be fair, he  sticks to admirably, is why was the moderately successful B-movie queen such a run-away success on the small screen. Unfortunately, he could have stated the answer in one sentence -- actually, he does -- rather than attempt to base a whole biography on that one point.<br />Kanfer usually paints with broader strokes than does Brady, who is more attentive to detail.  At times, the two diverge, for example in discussions of the possible causes of Ball's leg problems when she was a young model and the intricacies of her early home life.  Post \\"I Love Lucy\\" Brady is much stronger, particularly in describing Ball's relationship with her children and her ex-husband, Desi Arnaz.<br />Die-hard Lucy fans will probably want to read Kanfer, if only to glean an added tidbit of knowledge here and there.  Anyone who has not previously read a Lucy biography, or who expects to read only one, would probably get more information by starting with Brady.	2003-08-28
US	52918371	RX4DD7U33TKTN	0471209910	442287232	I Never Walked Alone: The Autobiography of an American Singer	Books	4	12	12	N	N	Great career, great book	Shirley Verrett's autobiography \\"I Never Walked Alone\\" (with Christopher Brooks) pretty much tells her life as she has seen it, and all I can say is, \\"Right on.\\"  She covers the highlights of her career and does not shy from admitting mistakes she made along the way and things she would have done differently.  Now a teacher at the University of Michigan, she leaves the impression that she is writing her autobiography, at least in part as a cautionary tale for her students.  Coming from a woman who had a spectacular career, that is pretty strong stuff.  Having shared her remarkable gifts with the world, she need not apologize for any false step she may think she took along the way.  She steps from the pages of this book as a woman who was always true to herself.  What more can a person ask?<br />Miss Verrett, whom the Italians dubbed the black Callas, covers it all.  She gives the details of her strict upbringing and the effect it had on her career, her first marriage and why it dissolved and the trials that faced her as a African American opera singer arriving on the scene just as members of race were crossing the color line at the Metropolitan Opera House (not to mention other major opera houses).  With touching candor, she relates her struggles to become a mother and some of the problems she faced balacing child-rearing and a career, her battles with a mysterious illness that made singing difficult, and working through the hormonal changes that accompanied middle life.  Throughout, she describes singers and conductors she admired and enjoyed as well as several she did not; she returns several times to her complicated relationship with Grace Bumbry (known in Germany as the black Venus), painting a wonderful picture of their catharsis.  <br />Put this one in the must read category along with the recent biographies of Eileen Farrell and Astrid Varnay, two other outspoken and humorous divas who called it like they saw it.	2003-08-28
US	52918371	R11W204E1M4V7M	1585674109	785631993	Creation	Books	4	6	7	N	N	Biography in novel form	Katherine Govier's novel \\"Creation\\" offers a complete portrait of Audubon, one that is faithful to the life portrayed in the definitive biographies by Alice Ford (admirable and very readable) and Herrick (admirable, but not quite as readable).  She slowly unwinds the story in something akin to an interior monologue, but in the third person.  The result is sometimes odd and, at times, the pace slows to a crawl, but stick with it, she invariably comes to the payout moment.<br />Audubon was a complex character who fabricated his past so often and so intensely, he probably believed his own fiction.  His relationship with his wife, Lucy, seems to have been best when they were separated, which was most of the time.  He was either in the wild, following his passion, on in another country finding subscribers for his magnum opus. The Audubon sons were part of the family business, though at times, grudgingly so.  Each had his own talents; each used those talents to serve Audubon and his work.  Into this highly dysfunctional family stepped Maria Martin, spinster, small, not particularly attractive (like Lucy) and an artist in her own right.<br />Govier takes as her premise that the relationship between Audubon and Maria is physically romantic.  Perhaps. More likely, it was one of those prim Victorian romances that was exchanged on paper rather than physically. Even so, Govier presents a compelling case that the documented rift between Audubon and his friend and business associate, Bachman (Maria's brother-in-law), arose when the latter realized that the playful flirting between Audubon and Maria was actually something more.  Perhaps.  <br />The writing is lyrical, at times a little dense.  As a portrait of a fascinating, sometimes beguiling, sometimes repellant man, this is excellent reading.	2003-08-28
US	52918371	R2GSGVXPZP6ELM	1931082014	103678861	Dawn Powell: Novels 1930-1942 (Library of America)	Books	5	38	39	N	N	An author to meet	If you are unacquainted with Dawn Powell, as I was until just recently, this is an excellent means to begin your acquaintance, with five of her early novels arranged chronologically in one volume.  Powell draws the reader along as she unwinds the thread of her narrative, slowing her pace for extended dialogue and description let her stories breath and speeding it to keep the narrative moving and reader engaged.  A major benefit of having these five novels together is that the reader can trace the development of Powell's satiric style as it progresses from a spot here and there in \\"Dance Night\\" to all pervading in \\"Angels on Toast\\" and \\"A time to be Born\\".  <br />The earlier works \\"Dance Night\\" and \\"Come Back to Sorrento\\", both of which have Midwestern small-town settings, have elements of Willa Cather, while the latter three, all New York satire, fall somewhere between Dorothy Parker and P.G. Woodhouse with punchy, sarcastic dialogue and vivid description.  Like Woodhouse, Powell understands the humor of being anthropomorphic in describing inanimate objects.<br />The brief chronology at the end of the book, which I recommend readers unfamiliar with Powell read first, explains some of Powells returning motifs: absent parents, children farmed out to relatives, traveling salesmen, dysfunctional families and American class consciousness.  She is masterful in presenting the \\"happily\\" part of the ending, but at the same time, registering misgivings about the \\"ever after.\\"<br />\\"Dance Night\\", set in a generic Lamptown, is the story of Morry Abbot, a young man coming to maturity and sexual awareness.  Powell sets this against the story of his dysfunctional parents, an absentee traveling salesman father and a mother who falls in love with the dance instructor.  A whole set of fully-fleshed minor characters fill out the narrative.<br />In \\"Come Back to Sorrento\\", another small town narrative, Connie Benjamin's life changes when a new music teacher comes to teach at the schoolin Dell River.  Connie, who has shown great promise as a singer, but who was restrained by her domineering grandfather who had raised her, has lived alone in her dream world for almost two decades.  Professor Decker, who lives in his own artificial world, arrives and the two become fast friends.  Although their pretensions, played out for before a spinster school teacher pass well into the realm of embarrassing, Powell deftly keeps them sympathetic simply by keeping the reader fully aware that these characters are lost in a world they only partly created.<br />Dennis Orphen, the hero of \\"Turn, Magic Wheel\\", a New York satire, has written a novelized book in which he satirizes a world-famous novelist, Andrew Callingham, having gleaned most of his information from Callingham's ex-wife, Effie.  Dennis, an inveterate womanizer, has unbeknownst to himself, fallen in love with Effie and she with him.  <br />The traveling salesman motif returns in \\"Angels on Toast\\", a story of the contrasting marital infidelities of Lou and Jay, who are continually on the road.  Replete with wives, girlfriends, and at least one ex-wife, this is the fastest paced of the five novels in this volume.<br />\\"A Time to be Born\\", reportedly based on Clare Booth Luce, is the most complex of the five. Interspersed within the interwoven narratives of Amanda Evans and Vicky Haven are the workplace politics at Peabody Publications, the riotous family life of the McElroy's, (one of Vicky's colleague in the office) and a return of Dennis Orphen from \\"Turn, Magic Wheel\\", along with his writing and drinking buddy, Ken Saunders.  Although Powell fully exploits her satiric wit in this novel, it does turn grim, especially towards the end.<br />These are all excellent reads and well worth the investment in this Library of America edition which has the same quality of their other publications.  Library of America has also produced a second volume of Powell's works that include later novels.	2003-08-19
US	52918371	R1TFNWINGBLQ5Y	0399151648	583255343	Kate Remembered	Books	5	55	60	N	N	Superb and surprisingly funny	Anyone who wants to believe that Katharine Hepburn was as fascinating in life as she was on the screen - and put me on that list - will love this book.  A. Scott Berg's memoir, Kate Remembered - and please note that the author informs at the onset that this is a memoir, not an official biography - captures a Hepburn who is always on, always ready with a pithy one-liner, always capable of a grand gesture, but who never seems fake or dishonest.  It was impossible for me to read this without hearing her distinctive voice every time Berg quoted her.<br />Although this does repeat some of the material in Miss Hepburn's own two forays into writing, and perhaps they have more of an authoritative voice since they came from her pen, it is worth reading for the gaps it fills and for Berg's tender treatment of his subject.  <br />To be honest, it is worth the entire cover price just to read about the surreal dinner party the evening that Michael Jackson came to dinner.  Hepburn's one-liners interspersed with Jackson's silence and the other guests' continually failing attempts to make conversation is laugh-out-loud funny.  When it became obvious that Jackson had never even seen a Hepburn movie (but said how much he loved them), I was laughing so hard, I dropped the book.<br />Berg grabbed me on page one, and held my interest through the end.  <br />Read it. By the time you reach the end, you will probably want to go out and rent several of Hepburn's movies, if you don't have them already.	2003-07-25
US	52918371	RL99QCR4U77T4	1558539700	324652370	Ron Howard: From Mayberry to the Moon...and Beyond	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Opie to Richie to the Moon	Did you ever want to be Opie when you were a kid?  I did.  The thing about Opie was that even when he got into trouble, and he did get into trouble, everybody still liked him.  Beverly Gray, in Ron Howard From Mayberry to the Moon, presents a good case that the same is true of Mr. Howard. Everybody in the motion picture business likes him, that is if you exclude a few pretentious critics (and even they probably like him, just not always his happy endings). Nice guys do NOT always finish last.<br />Howard did not cooperate with this biography because \\"he felt himself to be in midcareer and not ready to participate in a long range assessment of his accomplishment.\\" OK, fair enough.  Keep that in mind while you are reading, but do read it.  <br />From Opie to Richie to director, this is a detailed portrait of a man whom everyone agrees is a real mensch and who is wildly successful.  It is also fascinating, and adds to Howard's charm, to realize who loyal he is to his family and friends, yet how honestly he treats them when casting projects.  Simply put, if he feels they are right for a part, they get it; if not, they don't.  That takes quite a bit of respect and love - from the actor and the director.<br />Gray's extensive interviews bring out some interesting bits of trivia about Howard.  Her prose flows nicely and her organization is excellent.  Maybe in another forty years or so, she can write an update - next time with Ron Howard's input.	2003-07-25
US	52918371	R2IO0OKT5QGISX	0743244354	217847661	Liars and Saints: A Novel	Books	4	5	8	N	N	Quick, but intense read (keep a notepad handy)	If you are familiar with Wagner's Ring Cycle, then you will know that his interpretation of Nordic myth has several complex familial relationships. Twins (separated at birth) find each other, and not knowing they are twins, fall in love and have a child who then falls in love with his aunt and... <br />Well, Wagner didn't have anything on Maile Meloy and \\"Saints and Liars.\\"  It might take a pencil and paper to keep all the double and triple relationships organized in this fast-paced novel, but it will be worth it.  This is, above all, an interesting read.<br />Meloy draws crisp character portraits, delves into the problems in Catholicism, as well as the solace it can offer, and demonstrates just how dysfunctional a family can be.  But, in the midst of that tangle, she manages to keep her characters sympathetic and her plot believable.<br />This is a pretty quick, but intense read.	2003-07-25
US	52918371	R2XUHCV8UOFRFM	0743222245	376327637	Living History	Books	4	191	270	N	N	Hillary Lite	All right, let's be honest.  Everyone who thought that she was going to confess that she was an axe murderer who enjoyed cross-dressing and drowning newborn kittens please raise your hand.  Right, no hands.   <br />Normally, people write autobiographies to tell their version of events, and cast themselves in as positive a light as possible.  That is what Hillary Rodham Clinton has done in \\"Living History.\\"  If you are a fan of Senator Clinton's, you will enjoy the book, not least because she offers plausible explanations for some of the less savory accusations that have been hurled against her over the last three decades or so, including Whitewater, the national healthcare debacle and those commodities trades.  If you are not a fan, you will not enjoy the book for exactly the same reason  many of the explanations are plausible.  Even less appealing to the Senator's detractors, her prose is very readable (though I do wish she wouldn't use \\"impact\\" as a verb), her life has been (and continues to be) interesting and she is more charming in print than she often seems in public appearances.<br />Granted, some of the prose (particularly in the early years) is self-serving: \\"The keynote speaker at the League convention was Marian Wright Edelman, whose example helped direct me into my lifelong advocacy for children\\" sound more than a bit self-serving.  In her defense, however, she works through the pre-White House days very quickly, so it all becomes a blur of good deeds as a child and honors as a student, right on through graduate school (student government, political activist, first student commencement speaker at Wellesley, etc.).  One wonders if she ever got a B in a class or missed a lecture because she overslept.  The only exception is her hair, which she treats as a running joke throughout the book.<br />The other running theme -- no surprise here -- is her belief in a right-wing conspiracy against the Clintons.  Read that either as an accurate statement, as the Senator's paranoia or somewhere between.  There is no denying, however, that mentioning the Clinton name in certain conservative circles produces the same effect of throwing an ear of corn into a pen of pigs  both are devoured in seconds.<br />Whether Senator Clinton does or does not plan to run for President in 2004, or after, one intention of this book is clearly to give her an opportunity to explain herself, and thus reintroduce herself, to the American voting public.  That clearly raises the question: why? Perhaps, like Nancy Reagan, she just wanted to tell it her way, or perhaps she is just planning for all eventualities.  In any case, this is an interesting read, if not an overly revealing biography of a very complex and  like it or not  influential woman in American politics, not a must read, but certainly on the short list for consideration.	2003-06-11
US	52918371	ROZ52FKQ6KF56	0374277826	713832506	The Time of Our Singing	Books	5	10	12	N	N	Powerful story, remarkable descriptions of music	If for no other reason, read this book for the many remarkable ways Mr. Powers describes music. His fascination with transposing sound into word permeates his story from the vocal competition that opens it through the tender flash-back that closes it. <br />There are, however, many other reasons to read about the journey of Delia and David Strom, who meet at Marion Anderson's historic Easter Sunday concert at the Lincoln Memorial, and their three children: Jonah, Joseph and Ruth. First and foremost, this is an engrossing story. Powers sets the intertwining lives of these three siblings against the tumultuous history of the American civil rights movement, letting each of the three explore a different route to self-fulfillment: black, white and in-between. Joseph, the middle child, and the one who fluctuates in-between, narrates major portions of the book. Interspersed among his first-person narratives are third-person flashbacks (apparently someone else - and it is not clear that Joseph knows everything that this omniscient observer knows) that focus on Delia.. Like Miss Anderson, Delia Daley has an enormous vocal talent and grows up in Philadelphia; unlike her, she does not discover the path to musical fame.<br />Powers has an interesting play between his historical and fictional characters. I was particularly fascinated with his description of the child prodigy, Philippa Duke Schuyler, and astonished to learn that was she an actual person whose story was just as Powers told it. Her life story fits several of the themes in the book so well, I began to wonder whether she might have been the inspiration for this novel.<br />Convincing and sympathetic characters, deft descriptions, conflict and resolution, nothing is lacking in this engrossing book. I could write on and on about what I liked about it, but it is better experienced first-hand.	2003-04-20
US	52918371	R1KFGHG8FRE4NG	0385504209	315416156	The Da Vinci Code	Books	5	7	11	N	N	Completely engrossing and entertaining	Suppose the church's teachings about Jesus were completely wrong.  Instead of being a celibate divinity, he was a very mortal who married and sired a line of descendents that still exists in the 21st Century and appointed his wife as the first head of the church.  And, suppose an organization exists to protect this knowledge, pass it on and, at the right moment, reveal it to all mankind.  That's the jumping off point for Dan Brown's superb and engaging novel, The Da Vinci Code, if novel is a sufficient term to describe the intricate puzzles within puzzles, codes within codes and reflections of reflections that wind through this engaging story.<br />Beyond the puzzles, Brown offers a wealth of historical information, and seems to be fascinated with etymology.  Anyone who can read this novel without at least once going to an encyclopedia or the internet to check one of Brown's revelations is a far better man than I.  If the book has any drawback, it is that he occasionally becomes a bit prosaic, or better said, lets his characters become a bit prosaic when it is necessary to give some of the historic background.  But those parts are few and far between; the quick-moving story more than compensates for the few slow spots.	2003-04-12
US	52918371	RCMJIPYZ064M	0446610100	543219405	Wish You Well	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Rewarding read	My sweetest memories of my childhood in southeast rural Virginia, are the echoes of my two grandmothers as they responded to my, and my siblings' requests to &quot;tell us a story.&quot; In a soothing, gentle drawling speech that has all but disappeared in our age of uniform media-inspired pronunciation, they would tell short little tales and anecdotes about their childhoods, or about our parents when they were children. Entertained by the hour, we were then unaware that we were tapping into a link with our pasts, even less aware that we were learning the cycle of life: we, the children, would one day be the parents, and then the grandparents. Auditors, we were learning the stories to pass on, while creating new ones to add to the repertoire. <br />To read David Baldacci's &quot;Wish You Well&quot; is to hear my grandmothers again. True, &quot;Wish You Well&quot; takes place on the mountainous side of the Old Dominion, not the flat side where I grew up, but the challenges were the same: people who depended on the land for survival were at the mercy of nature and, sometimes, at the mercy of interloping industry that offered long-term promises it could not fill. They came, they took, they left. <br />Ultimately, however, this is a novel about love, relations, relationships and sacrifice. Through a set of disastrous circumstances, Lou and Oz and their comatose mother find themselves transported from 1940s Brooklyn to a mountain top in far southwestern Virginia where their great-grandmother, Louisa Mae Cardinal takes them into her simple home. Here, they meet Eugene, a young black man who lives in Louisa's house, Diamond, an orphan who lives in the woods and Cotton, a small-town lawyer who does not realize the extent of his ability to persuade. <br />The younger Louisa Mae, who insists upon being called Lou is an aspiring writer (following her father's footsteps). She is the older and stronger of the two children and acts as surrogate mother to her younger brother, Oz (short for Oscar, though &quot;The Wizard of Oz&quot; and symbolism in it do come into the story). Baldacci acknowledges in the prefatory Author's Note that portions of this book are autobiographical, leaving us to wonder if he is Lou or in Oz, or perhaps both as personifications of different parts of his developed personality. It does not seem accidental, however, that the scrappy Lou, who gets into more than one fight with a bully, bear the name Louisa Mae -- that of another author who wrote transparently autobiographical fiction. Josphine March also preferred to be known by a one-syllable name. <br />Baldacci writes directly and effectively, sometimes drawing us into scenes that are almost too painful to read. If you are wise, you will not read the last chapters in a public place as I did (on the stairmaster at the gym). As I finished, with tears streaming down my face, I glanced up to see the woman next to me staring with a look that clearly said, &quot;If it's that painful to exercise, just stop.&quot; Rather than break the spell of &quot;Wish You Well&quot; I just smiled and did not bother with an explanation. <br />In the Author's Note, Baldacci tells us that &quot;writing this novel was &quot;one of the most rewarding experiences of my life.&quot; Reading it was one of mine.	2003-03-25
US	52918371	R3TYZMFRI9DLEG	1400040930	575332371	Of Paradise and Power: America and Europe in the New World Order	Books	4	21	27	N	N	Brilliant, thought-provoking essay	Why is it that in the weeks following the September 11 massacre, Europeans displayed such empathy for Americans and less than a year later appeared to be what many Americans see as superior, self-righteous and judgmental?  The interest in Robert Kagans extended essay, Of Paradise and Power is not so much how he answers that question, as it is his clarity and conciseness in doing so, in a manner that any reader can grasp: Those who cannot act unilaterally themselves naturally want to have a mechanism for controlling those who can.  <br />While decidedly pro-American, Kagan is not anti-European; he does not assign blame to any one country or group of countries for the present diplomatic rift, least of all to Europe.  Rather in beautifully balanced prose, as well as an admirably balanced worldview and historical insight, he explains that: <br />Those with great military power are more likely to consider force a useful tool of international relations than those who have less military power <br />A man armed only with a knife may decide that a bear prowling the forest is a tolerable dangerthe same man armed with a rifle, however, will likely make a different calculation... <br />If Americans are unhappy about this state of affairs, they should recall that todays Europeis very much the product of American foreign policy<br />Although Kagan attempts to play down its significance, one simple reality underpins this essay: as long as America defends European interests, Europe has the luxury of taking the moral high ground. As long as America worries about global security, Europe can worry about global warming. Germany may deride America's use of force, but it is not expelling Americas troops (if for no other reason than the effect such a move would have on the already ailing German economy). On the specific problem of Iraq, Kagan convincingly argues that Europe is worried more about Americas handling of the problem than aboutthe Iraqi threat itself.  His deft comparison of Europes appeasement to Hitler in the 1930s and Germanys and Frances present-day conciliatory attitude to Saddam Hussein is a chilling historical reminder, to say the least.  <br />One problem inherent in Kagans laser-like focus on the power/paradise argument is that he diminishes the roles of economic interests and historical relationships, both of which seem to have more present importance than he assigns them.  On the other hand, he does acknowledge the lingering doubts the two main continental players, Germany and France, have about each other.  While Schroders talk of the German way may be unsettling to Americans, it strike fear in the collective heart of France, which has seen the German way first hand  and too often.  Despite that, Kagan's view is that Europe (with French and German leadership) must pursue its own military defense.  Even if it does not have the resources to balance America's military capability, such a move would send a clear signal that Europe is not content to remain dependent on America's might -- and thus subordinated to America's plans of action. <br />So, what is at the heart of the change in Europe's attitude to America between September 11, 2001 and September 11, 2002?  Kagan attributes it to genuine European grief for America, a grief that dissipated once Americas plans for using force to obtain justice and security became clear.  Perhaps.  But Kagan's underlying message is even stronger: in the days following September 11, when America was brought to its knees, Europeans could once again, if only fleetingly, feel superior. Historical rivalries die hard, if at all.<br />At 103 pages, this is a book to read, and then read again.  No, it is not the only explanation of the present rift between the US and Europe, but it a concise, clear telling of one account of that rift.	2003-03-13
US	52918371	R1SIC61FKIZWZ4	0385508042	106527389	The King of Torts	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Good entertainment -- fast read	When this book arrived in the mail from the Book of the Month Club, I realized I had forgotten to decline the offer, but, as I have an aversion returning things, I kept it, even though my stack of waiting-to-be-read books is rather high and has some likelier candidates. As it turned out, I was glad I did. Suffering a headache from non-fiction burnout, I picked up \\"The King of Torts\\" and, by the end of page one, knew I would not put it down until I finished it. Authors write and readers read for myriad reasons; when the reasons match up the result is satisfaction. Such it was with Mr. Grisham and me: I wanted something interesting and entertaining to read and that is what he wrote. <BR> <BR>Not that \\"The King of Torts\\" is all fluff. Grisham dissects the world of tort law and examines it from all angles, adding some flesh and blood to the lawyers that everyone  -- including other lawyers -- loves to hate. Along the way, he pays literary homage to sources as diverse as Goethe (Faust), medieval morality plays, and William Dean Howells (\\"The Rise and Fall of Silas Lapham\\"). Within the first few chapters, J. Clay Carter, II (the Faust character):<br />- ends a four-year relationship with the love of his life (whose parents are absolutely insufferable), <BR>- leaves his job as a public defender, <BR>- opens an extravagantly expensive law office complete with ever-expanding staff, and <BR>- moves income brackets from $30 thousand a year to more than $100 million. <br />The impetus for most of this change (excepting the break-up) is a vaporous Mephistopheles who goes by the name of Max Pace (if Mr. Grisham is an opera-lover that name is probably a sly homage to \\"Der Freischuetz\\"). Pace goes by as many names as Mephistopheles, and, like that character is a mercurial presence who eventually disappears altogether, leaving the reader (and Clay) to wonder if he really existed at all. <br />Once in the big-time of tort law, Clay does not handle his newly found wealth any better than do some of his clients and he seems to be a fish out of water in the presence of the other big tort lawyers. Eventually, he finds redemption, though, since he never really completely looses his soul (only a little common sense and a lot of money), the relief is not as palpable as if he had truly faced off with the devil and survived.<br />Considering the critics and readers who readily criticize Grisham for writing, \\"just to make money\\" (as opposed to changing the world?), Clay may, in fact, be Grisham's surrogate. Both paid their dues before joining the big leagues and both endure their share of media criticism. Grisham knows how to pace a novel and develop believable characters and often uses a few well-crafted phrases to insert his literary dagger, my favorite example being his description of Rebecca's mother's plastic surgery V truly wicked fun, and right on the mark. (The self-righteous and pompous head of the rehab center was a close second.)<br />No, this is not \\"War and Peace\\" (or pretend to be) nor did it have the same emotional appeal for me that \\"Painted House\\" did, but, as I wrote at the onset, I was looking for interest and entertainment, and that is what Grisham had to offer: a good match.	2003-03-05
US	52918371	R185SWQLD97EAJ	1568361564	960403761	Eccentrics: A Study of Sanity and Strangeness (Kodansha Globe)	Books	4	7	9	N	N	Entertaining and informative look at odd-balls	Any book that describes Day Crockett as \\"the strangest man I ever saw.  He had the face of a woman, and his manner was that of a girl\\" is going to capture my attention.  That description appears in \\"Eccentrics\\" followed by the qualification that, as the Alamo fell, Crockett \\"looked grand and terrible, shouting at the front door and fighting a whole column of Mexican infantry.\\"<br />The authors, who may be a bit eccentric themselves, first define eccentricity, then supply multiple examples arranged in such categories as: The Scientists, Eccentric Childhood, and Sexual Eccentricity (the latter being not quite as titillating as it sounds).  They also examine the borderline between eccentricity and mental illness (a fine one) as well as some peculiarities, such as arrested speech development, relating it to eccentricity.<br />An interesting read, the only latent problem in the book is that, after reading it, you may find yourself looking at some of your acquaintances with different eyes (not to mention yourself.)   On the other hand, you might use it as a springboard to finding and developing the eccentric parts of your own character.	2003-02-08
US	52918371	RYDO1ABT9B36K	0609607677	511097220	Jesus and the Lost Goddess: The Secret Teachings of the Original Christians	Books	2	104	188	N	N	What?	What on earth (or in heaven above) is the point of this book? As an avid reader of books about religion, and one who has read and many without agreeing with the research, philosophy or sentiment espoused, I bought this one thinking it would be similar to the level of research and reflection found in the writings of Elaine Pagels (The Gnostic Gospels) or Karen Armstrong (The Battle for God) or even the Jesus Seminar (The Five Gospels). Instead, I discovered that the research -- and I use the term loosely -- is hollow at best, quackery at worst. The authors, under the guise of research, are foisting their own (and if you will pardon my saying so) whacked-out spirituality upon the unsuspecting reader.<br />Beyond that, they do not even write well; the organization of this book is a mess.<br />Thumbs down. With all the interesting, thought-provoking books on religion and spiritulality available, this is not a \\"must-have\\" for the home libary.	2003-02-08
US	52918371	RUTXZJAV2ORGT	0316150487	925598518	The Perfect Store: Inside eBay	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Brings a lot of information together in one book	If you are an avid Ebayer, you will probably find yourself in this book and have a good chuckle; even if you have never experienced the Ebay thrill of winning (or the agony of defeat), you will probably find this entertaining and informative reading. In \\"The Perfect Store,\\" Adam Cohen traces Ebay's development from a one-man shop to the multi-million dollar operation it is today.  Along the way, he introduces a cast of interesting characters, many of whom do not fit the typical dot-com profile as the media has hitherto fore presented it.  And, he debunks some myths, such as the \\"Pez container\\" inspiration for the original Ebay.<br />Granted, quite a bit of this information has appeared in print before, but Cohen brings it together for the reader who has 1) not been following the story, 2) does not have time or resources to research Ebay in the media or 3) found Ebay after it was already a national phenomenon.  I'm number 3. Although I have been an avid Ebayer, myself, for almost five years, I have mainly bought and sold, staying on the fringes and not participating in the chat-rooms or discussion boards.  I was very surprised to learn that these venues were part of the original Ebay plan and have been the impetus for some of the changes that I have seen take place over the last few years.  <br />From the onset, Ebay has been a consumer-driven buyer-seller platform.  Like all organizations, it has had its share of growing pains.  Without taking sides, Cohen examines these, illuminating the multiple and various personalities that make up this global market place.<br />Cohen's writing style is very readable and he paces the book nicely, interspersing just enough anecdote among the business facts to keep the book from becoming a dry tome.  (Bonus: The clever Ebayer may also pick up a tip or two for buying and selling.)	2003-02-08
US	52918371	R1OLCGM2IX8F7L	0802713955	139671172	Michelangelo and the Pope's Ceiling	Books	5	52	56	N	N	Superb author as  engaging tour guide	Have you ever visited a landmark and had a tour guide who brought history to life - an engaging and entertaining person who had all the facts at his (or her) fingertips, but who delved beneath the facts to bring the participants to life?  If so, you will understand the appeal of Ross King's &quot;Michelangelo and the Pope's Ceiling,&quot; for Mr. King is that kind of a tour guide.  He takes us into the Sistine Chapel and fully explicates Michelangelo's masterpiece as a work of art, including everything from the technique of fresco to the kinds and colors of paint (and their origins) to the various challenges in the technique known as foreshortening.  Although he liberally sprinkles the text with Italian and art terms, he explains each as he goes along.  <br />Along the way, he also drops in interesting bits of information, such as, which panels in the painting, Michelangelo first saw from the floor of the chapel and what stylistic and color changes he incorporated in the panels after that, or which poses must have been difficult for the models (and who some of the models may have been) or why the medallions are disproportionately small to the rest of the work. Mixed in with art history and art appreciation are relevant pieces of contemporary history: the debauched and demanding Pope Julius II and the state of the papacy during his reign, the wars and diseases that afflicted the various participants and hindered work on the chapel, and numerous other small details that enliven the narrative.  <br />King compares and contrasts Michelanglo with great rival, Raphael, who was painting the pope's private apartments at the same time Michelanglo was painting the Sistine Chapel ceiling.  Raphael, who died relatively young, was more attractive, more popular, more adept at fresco (at least more adept than Michelangelo was when he began the ceiling) and generally a more sympathetic character than Michelangelo who lived to be almost ninety, had disgusting personal habits, was really not much to look at, and who really wanted to sculpt, not paint.  While Raphael had the characteristic Italians call sprezziatura (making the difficult look easy), Michelangelo seemed to find everything difficult, or make it so.<br />King also debunks some of the more popular myths, particularly that Michelanglo painted the entire ceiling by himself, lying on his back.  He had a host of helpers, some of whom also served as his teachers because he had minimal fresco experience when he began the chapel, and, while the scaffold was positioned so that neither he nor his assistants had to lie on their backs, the half squatting and bent-backward positions they did assume were equally uncomfortable, if not more so.<br />Though longer than &quot;Bruneleschi's Dome,&quot; &quot;Michelangelo and the Pope's Ceiling&quot; moves just as quickly. King is never slow, dry or pedantic.  He is, however, unfailingly informative.  Should you be fortunate enough to visit the Vatican, this is obligatory preparatory reading.  If you do not have that opportunity, King's tour of the Sistine Chapel is the next best thing to seeing it in person.	2003-02-06
US	52918371	R1X67VW7CYNINS	0375508260	649819248	Paris 1919: Six Months That Changed the World	Books	5	258	279	N	N	An extraordinary book about an extraordinary event	For the last couple of weeks, since finishing \\"Paris 1919\\", I have grappled with writing a review that would do justice to a book that is not only excellent reading, but also has the potential to reshape the way a reader views current events.  Rather than wait longer for the writing muse who refuses to appear, I will take the more direct approach and simply write, \\"Buy this book and read it. It will afford you a greater understanding of international events unfolding in the world today.\\"  <br />Margaret Macmillan is an exceptional history writer: engaging, direct and interesting (sometimes even funny), but also a wide-ranging thinker who see and explains the vast sweep of history as well as the apparently minor ripples. She juggles the enormous cast of characters in the drama that unfolded in Paris, 1919 and explicate the myriad brought to the major players at the peace conference. Her knowledge of world history and her ability to explain it concisely are fully illustrated in her explanations of the various ethnic claims for land and self-rule individual; her ability to compare and contrast these claims is extraordinary. <br />She quickly reduces the Big Five to the Big Four, as the Four themselves did when they eliminated the Japanese representative from most of the debate and negotiation - he could barely follow the mostly English conversation anyway. Her descriptions of the Big Four (who eventually operated, without Italy, as the three), though apparently honest and precise, are hardly flattering:<br />*Wilson, preoccupied with his Fourteen Points and convinced that all would be well if the peoples of the world were allowed to practice self-determination (even though the definition varied depending upon the case and people)<BR>*Lloyd George, determined to expand the British Empire at all costs, but who proved, ultimately, to be the mediator between Wilson and Clemenceu<BR>*Clemenceu, torn between extracting vengeance on Germany (in the form of reparations and a land buffer) and expanding French holdings<BR>*Orlando, whose overwrought, weeping behavior eventually embarrassed the other three and led them to exclude him from many major decisions, eliciting further weeping and an eventual walk-out (followed by a less-than-noble return)<br />That these four thought they could accomplish the multi-pronged task they assigned themselves - to deal with the defeated Germany, to establish national boundaries that would help ensure future world peace and to establish an organization to help enforce that peace - now seems nave.  As Ms. Macmillan illustrates, the participants appear to believe they could accomplish their goals.  However, as she also illustrates, time and again, as each the discussion on question reached a stalemate, the Four either delayed a final decision or deferred the question to a committee for further study.  As a result, many decisions remained unresolved while others had less-than-satisfactory solutions.<br />She neatly and convincingly debunks the theory that the financial burden placed on Germany as part of the war reparations was a major factor leading to Hitler's rise and WWII.  Not only were the reparations significantly less than those Germany extracted from France after the 1870s Franco-Prussian War, but Germany never paid the WWI reparations and, indeed, indulged itself in such tactics as scuttling part of its navy rather than turn it over to Britain.  On the other hand, she reinforces the argument that Germany did not feel compelled to accept terms of an agreement that were enforced rather than negotiated - and were determined to avenge the humiliation their representatives endured during the conference.<br />This is an extremely interesting book and, as another reviewer has mentioned, a real page-turner.  Read it.<br />(Do note that Wilson's Fourteen Points are in an appendix at the back of the book.  Ms. McMillan refers to them often and it is very helpful to have them close at hand.)	2003-02-06
US	52918371	R2HGN3I93WP5Q8	0060195827	630596025	Paradise Alley: A Novel	Books	5	20	24	N	N	Magnificent epic evocation of New York in the 1860s	Although Kevin Baker's \\"Paradise Alley\\" and Herbert Asbury's \\"Gangs of New York\\" both focus on the same group of people during the same period in New York City's history, Baker's book, a work of fiction, has a much stronger ring of authenticity than does Asbury's, even though the latter was a newspaper writer and claimed to have based his book on interviews, court records and other primary sources.<br />Baker sets his story during the first three days of the New York Draft Riots, a week-long period of civil disorder rooted in multiple and complex causes including class differences (any draftee who could pay $300 could buy a substitute), economic hardship (the poor, who lived in squalid circumstances had little hope of improving themselves beyond a life of crime), ethnic rivalries (particularly those between the immigrant Irish and free black people), and lack of support for the war.  Baker makes clear for the reader that freedom from slavery did not guarantee freedom from prejudice, even in the liberal North.  Using a series of flashbacks (and flashbacks within flashbacks), and telling the story from multiple viewpoints, Baker illuminates the complexity of those issues that led to a week of rioting, lynching, and pillaging.<br />Beyond evoking the historical sights, sounds and scents of New York - particularly the tenements and Paradise Alley, which was in the vicinity of the notorious Five Points - Baker's book is a superb piece of fiction, well-crafted with sympathetic and multi-faceted characters.  By using several viewpoints - including Ruth, the Irish immigrant, Billy Dove, her husband who is an escaped slave, Johnny Dolan, Ruth's former lover, Dierdre, his proud sister, and Herbert Robinson, a writer for the New York Tribune (and the only person who speaks in the first person) - Baker lets the reader revisit the same event several times, but seen through the eyes of a different person.  The interwoven threads of the story strengthen the dramatic thrust as thevarious characters weave in and out of each other's lives, sometimes knowingly, sometimes not.  <br />The most fascinating relationship, is that between Robinson and Dierdre, whose paths continually cross and whom we come to see as alter egos(much like Virginia Woolf's Mrs. Dalloway and Septimus Warren Smith).  Robinson now owns the house where Dierdre once worked as cook, and keeps a mistress (Maddy Boyle) in Paradise Alley where Dierdre now lives with her respectable husband in the cleanest, most well-furnished house.  Dierdre picked her husband over all of her would-be suitors because she knew she could mold him into the man she wanted, but in the process, she chained him so tightly that he welcomes the war as a way to get away from her. Maddy, thinking that Robinson has chosen her because he can mold her into the woman he wants, tries to play the role, including a dangerously suggestive game they play, based upon a famous sculpture of the time - the White Captive.  Ultimately, one relationship grows stronger, the other falls apart.<br />As the dust-jacket picture suggests, New Yorks volunteer fire companies appear often throughout the book, both at their most glorious and their most shameful.  Baker is at his best and most original in describing the fire companies and fires, the rivalries among them (which often are more important that putting out a fire), their usefulness to the city bosses, their ethnic loyalty, their exclusiveness, and ultimately, their mob-mentality (and duplicity) during the Draft Riots.  <br />In all probability, Baker did not set out to write the northern equivalent of \\"Gone With the Wind\\"; however, several episodes (notably a prolonged birth scene and poignant death scene for a character who bears more than passing resemblance to the long-suffering Melanie Hamilton Wilkes) and characters (especially Maddy Boyle who is Belle Watling's poor northern cousin and Dierdre whose resemblance to the proud and unbending Scarlett is much deeper than their shared Irish background) pay homage to Margaret Mitchell's Civil War classic.  <br />In its epic sweep, \\"Paradise Alley\\" matches \\"GWTW\\" and would provide excellent material for a film.  Alas, Martin Scorsese has just released \\"Gangs of New York,\\" based loosely on Asbury's turgid prose, so it does not seem likely that \\"Paradise Alley\\" will reach the screen in the near future.  All the more reason to read it.	2003-01-07
US	52918371	R15HCPIHX3DQC6	1560252758	985681969	The Gangs of New York: An Informal History of the Underworld	Books	3	34	36	N	N	Entertaining (but double-check the historical accuracy)	The long-awaited (and long-delayed) release of Martin Scorsese's film, Gangs of New York, will no doubt bring renewed interest in Herbert Asbury's 1928 book of the same name.  Asbury, who was a journalist, editor and author, claims that this book is based on material \\"obtained from the new-papers and magazines, from police and court records, and from personal interviews with criminals and police officials.  The two page bibliography cites numerous 19th Century sources that are contemporary with the mainly Irish gangs who are the focus of Asbury's book; however, quite a bit of it reads more like American tall tales (e.g., Paul Bunyan and his blue ox, Babe, or John Henry who died with a hammer in his hand) than accurate American history. <br />Are we really to believe that the most famous of the Bowery Boys, Mose, was \\"eight feet tall\\" with hands \\"as large as the hams of a Virginia hog\\" and a hat that measured \\"more than two feet across\\", that \\"during the hot months he went about with a great fifty gallon keg of ale dangling from his belt in lieu of a canteen\\"?  Or that Gallus Mag was over six feet tall and kept a jar full of alcohol-preserved ears she had bitten off of her victims (one of which she gave back in a later fit of admiration)?<br />Certainly, most of Asbury's book is based on fact.  Indeed, his long description of the 1863 draft riots agrees with other accounts and, further, delves more into the actual reasons behind that torrid affair than do many other sources.  Interestingly, in this section he relies less on purple prose than he does elsewhere. However, here, as in other chapters, sorting out what is fact, what is exaggeration, and what is plain fancy, is difficult.<br />In sum, this is interesting and entertaining reading (if a bit florid), but, without further research into other sources, readers shouldn't accept everything in this book as unimpeachable fact.	2002-12-16
US	52918371	R3RZMPHGQXDIP1	0393021386	890178124	The Book of Splendor	Books	5	10	11	N	N	Historical fiction (fantasy) at its best	To be sure, tourism in Prague must have increased after publication of this book.  As a result of Ms. Sherwood's vivid descriptions, Prague becomes the main character in this story.<br />In the acknowledgements (how many novels have you read that have acknowledgments?), Ms. Sherwood calls this a historical fantasy -- a perfect description.  As she explains, some of the characters and events are historical, some fictional, some historical who have been somewhat fictionalized. Which parts are historical and which fictionalized is not really important, the engrossing story stands on its own merits.<br />The Book of Splendor -- even the title evokes a sense of mystery -- has all the elements of a great movie: engrossing plot, detailed and sympathetic characters, colorful, even exotic location, and more than a little mystery.  Not mystery as in Perry Mason, but mystery as in an exploration of the complexity of human relationships, the wonder of self-sacrifice and (not to be flippant) the meaning of life. All of this is overlaid with the uneasy co-existence of Christianity and Judaism in turn-of-the-17th Century Prague. <br />And, then, there is the Golem, a mythical creature brought into being where the land and water come together, by means of spell and incantation.  That he isn't a man is clear, but, is that because he is less than a man -- or more?<br />Fluid prose, subtle symbolism and well-balanced, intertwining story-lines: Ms. Sherwood handles it all, and beautifully.	2002-12-06
US	52918371	R3I6LXALXYNJNF	037540709X	933934628	In the Devil's Snare: The Salem Witchcraft Crisis of 1692	Books	2	83	106	N	N	Content: A/Form: D-	When I saw this book reviewed in a national newspaper, I thought, that's a book for me: the Salem witchcraft affair never ceases to fascinate me and this author has an interesting hypothesis. Clearly, Ms. Norton has a detailed grasp of her subject matter, as well as keen lateral thinking. She has put the accusations, examinations and trials into their social context, drawing compelling parallels between events on the frontier (Indian raids) with those in Salem (bewitched young women). The amount of research apparent in this book is staggering. It is all very interesting stuff.<br />Alas, this book is so dry (to use another reviewer's word -- and would that I'd read his review before buying the book) it is barely readable. Just a few pages into the first chapter and I realized I'd made a big mistake, but I decided to sweat it out for awhile to see if it got any better. It didn't. Finally on page 100, I gave up and skimmed the rest, reading passages here and there to confirm that it was more (and more) of the same. The summary chapters at the end were a little better -- but not much.<br />The main problem is that Ms. Norton has taken an interesting idea and flogged it to death. The book could have been half its length and had a greater impact: less, in this case, would have been much more. Second, the constant quotes interrupt the flow of the text, and, to be blunt, Ms. Norton's text needs all the help it can get when it comes to flow. (Ms. Norton also seems to have passive-construction disease. \\"As was discussed previously\\" is dull in a doctoral dissertation, in a book intended for mass consumption -- and this one was, I assume -- it's sudden death.)<br />Third, interspersing 17th Century spelling with 21st Century spelling is jarring and, after about ten pages, REALLY annoying. It is clear that Ms. Norton has read these texts, she doesn't need to dazzle us with that fact; it would have been preferable for her to either paraphrase (with proper notations, of course) or, when a quote was absolutely necessary to illustrate a point, to update the spelling. <br />Take this example from page 90: The fishermen, too, hurried to leave, \\"supposinge it not boote to stay here against such a multitude of enemyes.\\" (not boote?) or this one: Frontier dwellers accurately predicted the consequences of Waldron's deceit, anticipating \\"Suddain Spolye\\" that would leave them \\"in a More danger[ous] Condision\\" than before. WHAT? The first time I read the latter sentence, I thought Suddain Spoyle was a Native American whose introduction I'd missed. <br />Oddly, on page 92, Ms. Norton quotes one James Roules who uses 20th Century spelling. Was Mr. Roules living in a forward time warp or did Ms. Norton update the spelling in that passage, and, if the latter, why not throughout?<br />I hope that the \\"other Americanists and the other women in the Cornell history department\\", to whom Ms. Norton dedicated this book, enjoyed it. But, Ms. Norton, writing an erudite and detailed study for one's colleagues on the history faculty is quite a different animal from writing for those of us (dare I say it?) in the real world, who, if your book is going to be a financial success, are your audience. <br />Does that mean the material has to be dumbed-down? No, not in the least. But, neither is it necessary to hide an excellent hypothesis behind pages of adademic balderdash and blather.<br />Content: A/Form: D-	2002-12-05
US	52918371	R18SCKOJUHGIVS	0679439382	39256491	The Little Friend	Books	4	0	0	N	Y	A second novel that compares well with the first	Two things right off the bat: 1) Once again (as with The Secret History) Ms. Tartt kept me reading her novel right to the end, even though 2) I have rarely come across a group of characters who are less sympathetic than those who people these pages.<br />Like The Secret History, The Little Friend begins with a death, though this time it is possible that the death was accidental not a murder. What follows are the parallel histories of two very dysfuntional families: one is the middle-class (with upper-middle pretentions) extended family of the dead child, the other, (whose lives wierdly intersect with the first's) is a lower-class bunch who live in a group of trailers and that includes felons, a grandmother who has been terminally ill for decades, and a would-be preacher who questions his calling because he proves to be inept as a snake-handler. Like The Secret History, there is a complete cast of fully-fleshed walk-ons.<br />Tartt tells The Secret History from one character's viewpoint, thus coloring all events and people with his perceptions of them. She narrates The Little Friend from multiple viewpoints, so that throughout -- and at the end -- the reader knows more about what is happening (and why) than any single character, though, in actuality, the reader is not always sure what he does and doesn't know. That in itself is not a problem; what is a problem is that the characters are not communicating with each other, even when they think they are. That makes for some very uncomfortable reading, in which the reader -- at least this one -- wants to shout at the page: \\"For God's sake, why aren't you all listening to each other?\\"<br />And then, if that weren't enough, we have Harriet, that dear, confused, pre-pubescent child who never seems able to say what she wants to say, and often says (or does) what she desn't want. Even allowing for her disfunctional mother (whose reaction to her sons death back on page one was to go to be for the next decade), her domineering Grandmother (whom she resembles in more than looks), her three aunts (really great-aunts, all of whom have more than a little of the post-bellum south about them: Slightly impoverished, but cultivated, none-the-less), her desperately-in-need-of-psychiatric-care sister, and her absentee father...even allowing for all of that, she is a very unlikeable child. Why can't she say what she really thinks to the long-suffering hired woman, Ida Rhew? Why must she be so horribly mean to the poor little LaSharon (one character who, though not particularly likeable, is at least admirable for trying to improve herself, even though she doesn't seem to have a clue how to do it). And, why on earth does she decide that Danny is the murderer, based on nothing by a chance remark?<br />Why? Because she's a mixed up little girl going through a difficult time in any girl's life and desperately in need of guidance and quite a bit of tender attention -- which she is not getting. In short, she is a very real character, as are most of the people who pass through these pages. That is Donna Tartt's gift, she sees life and she records it. She doesn't ask us to like it, she just hands it to us and lets us make of it what we will. An author who can do that must be very trusting of her readership.<br />As I wrote at the on-set, I finished the book, even though several times, I was ready to put it down in sheer frustration with what was happening on the pages, including once when I was 80% finished (page 421, to be exact). However, whether I wanted to see how it all turned out (which, ultimately, I didn't -- once again, Ms. Tartt proves to be a mysterious writer as well as a mystery writer), whether I wanted to see if I liked Harriet any more than I did (which I didn't), or whether I just wanted to finish what I had started (which I did), whatever the reason, I finished and, as with The Secret History, have pondered what I read for a couple of days now. (I also went back and re-read the prologue, which had an entirely different meaning after I had completed the book.)<br />One peculiarity, which other reviewers have noted: I couldn't figure out when this was supposed to be taking place. Edie drives a car from the late '50s which is twenty years old, but the writing on the water tower (Class of 1970) has worn off from years of weather. The TV references seem to be early 70s, but there is also a reference to the non-gay player being chosen for a ball team, which does not seem to be a phrase one would have heard from an elementary school child in small-town Mississippi in the early 70s. Although an editor could have and should have made some sense of those references, they were not sufficient to destroy the authenticity of the sense of (southern) place.<br />Once again, a provocative novel from Ms. Tartt. (But, please, could there be at least one likeable character next time?)hich had an entirely different meaning after I had completed the book.)<br />One peculiarity, which other reviewers have noted: I couldn't figure out when this was supposed to be taking place. Edie drives a car from the late '50s which is twenty years old, but the writing on the water tower (Class of 1970) has worn off from years of weather. The TV references seem to be early 70s, but there is also a reference to the non-gay player being chosen for a ball team, which does not seem to be a phrase one would have heard from an elementary school child in small-town Mississippi in the early 70s. Although an editor could have and should have made some sense of those references, they were not sufficient to destroy the authenticity of the sense of (southern) place. <br />Once again, a provocative novel from Ms. Tartt. (But, please, could there be at least one likeable character next time?)	2002-12-02
US	52918371	R1DDU998IPUJU0	0393047792	372172550	Stone in the Garden: Inspiring Designs and Practical Projects	Books	5	49	49	N	N	Excellent resource for stone projects	Of the half-dozen books I bought to help me with a stone project (old fallen-down stone walls recycled into a new retaining wall) this is the one I look at over and over.  The first part of the book, under the heading Inspiring Uses for Stone, is exactly that: a group of beautiful pictures that can set your imagination running.  The second part, Working with Stone in the Garden, brings you back to earth with the how-to of stonework.  (The second half also includes a nice selection of full-color photos to keep your inspiration going.)<br />Like John Vivian's Building Stone Walls and Kevin Gardner's The Granite Kiss, Hayward's Stone in the Garden has clear and concise instructions.  And, like David Reed's Stonescaping, he includes extras like stone under foot, pools and fountains, and stone sculpture.  In addition, he includes some interesting (and helpful) extras such as plant selection for stone-walls or near stone pools and descriptions with photographs of the many kinds of stone availble in the US. (This is something that did not appear in any of the other stone how-to books I bought.)<br />As with Reed's Stonescaping, Stone in the Garden is just too pretty to take to the garden when you're working on your project. No matter how careful you are, when you're in the midst of digging or lifting stone, it's too easy to smear mud on your instructions. The easy solution is to photocopy the necessary pages to take to the project site for reference.	2002-11-29
US	52918371	R1ZX3YGIDLOLFR	0786867876	451605784	The Floating Brothel: The Extraordinary True Story of an Eighteenth-Century Ship and Its Cargo of Female Convicts	Books	5	35	35	N	N	Impressive research and fascinating story	In the foreward to this engaging narrative, Ms. Rees informs us that \\"when the American colonies defeated British soldiers and tax collectors, they also stopped accepting British criminals.  By 1783, therefore, Britain had to find somewhere else in the world to transport its criminals.\\"  Australia was the place.  Just as Jamestown, the early colony in Virginia, needed an infusion of marriageable women to allow it to grow (one of the three events of the red-letter year, 1619, was the arrival of a shipload of unmarried women), so would the penal colony in Sydney Cove.<br />Beginning with a description of the \\"crimes\\" for which women were sentenced to capital punishment and proceeding through the trials, prison conditions, and alternate punishment of banishment, Ms. Rees traces the voyage of the first group of women convicts to Australia.  From the onset, she admits that her primary sources are limited and one, the diary of one of the crew of the Lady Julian, is somewhat doubtful because it was written so long after the fact.  Even so, she has pulled together court records, contemporary British accounts of prison conditions, accounts of later voyages and other sources into a very impressive piece of research, and a very readable story.<br />In particular, her accounts of ship-board births, the pecking order among the female prisoners, the rights the crew assumed (both for sexual favors and for selling them in the ports of call) are fascinating reading.	2002-11-29
US	52918371	R3P3H0LY3DMPK2	0679410325	207158162	The Secret History	Books	5	4	6	N	N	Fantastic -- a real page-turner	If you spend any time on a treadmill, stairmaster, excercise bike, or similar instrument of torture, buy this book and read it while you exercise: the time will rush by so fast, you'll have exercised an hour and think it was a few minutes.  While that may seem a flip compliment, it isn't. The Secret History is a real page-turner.<br />On page one you learn that a muder has taken place.  For the next five-hundred-plus, you'll learn why...or maybe you won't.  Ms. Tartt is not so much a mystery writer as she is a mysterious writer, one who is content to leave enough ambiguity for the reader to draw his own conclusions.  The premise is a simple one, a west-coast Greek scholar transfers to a small, remote New England college where he finds his way into a small, mysterious and seemingly impenetrable group of Greek students with a teacher who insists upon controlling virtually every aspect of his students' educations. Ms. Tartt leaves it to the reader to decide how far that control extends beyond the classroom.  (An excellent question for book-club study would be \\"How much did Julian know and when did he know it?\\")<br />By telling the story from the viewpoint one of the seven main characters (the six students and the professor), Ms. Tartt controls the flow of information so that the reader only gradually becomes aware of the complex and interwoven relationships among the seven.  A full cast of carefully-deliniated supporting characters wander on and off the stage to fill the gaps in the narrative, but the focus always remains on the central group.<br />An air of gothic mystery pervades the whole story, as does more than a hint of gothic terror.  Description, detail, character developement, good story, it's all here.	2002-11-29
US	52918371	R7M5JQMUPX3KP	0881505064	617087154	The Granite Kiss: Traditions and Techniques of Building New England Stone Walls	Books	5	61	61	N	N	My favorite stone-wall how-to book	Of the half-dozen books I bought in preparation for recycling some of the old stonewalls up through the woods on our farm into a new retaining wall, this is my clear favorite.  It is more detailed than John Vivian's Building Stone Walls, particularly when it comes to retaining walls.  Because it is not as glossy and illustrated as Haywards' Stone in the Garden or David Reed's Stonescaping (which are, by the way, both excellent in their own right), I'm not as wary about taking it out to the project with me.<br />The text is clear and concise, and includes a healthy dose of stone philosophy and the index is detailed enough to help the do-it-yourselfer find what he needs, but short enough so that he can find what he wants, even if he does not know the proper name for it.<br />However, the main reason I like this book so much is Gardner's assurance that anyone who puts his mind to it -- which includes me -- can build a stone wall.  While his respect for old stone walls and the art of building them is obvious, he also has a healthy dose of practicality.  &quot;The notion that all, or even most, of the old stone-work we see around New England is the result of concentrated applicaion of arcane skill,&quot;  he write, &quot; is demonstrably false.&quot;  Once that sacred cow was out of the way, my confidence level went up and anything seemed possible.<br />The black &amp; white drawings that illustrate the text are clear and very helpful.	2002-11-29
US	52918371	R3HVAAWP6OL2ZC	1579900186	745939110	The Art And Craft of Stonescaping: Setting & Stacking Stone	Books	4	25	25	N	N	Great idea and how-to book	When I started a stone-project at our farm in the Catskills -- re-cycling some old, fallen-down stone walls into a new retaining wall -- I bought a half-dozen books, including David Reed's Stonescaping.  Although Reed's book was not the best one for my particular project, as a good how-to book, it is very good and as an idea book, it is excellent.  <br />On the plus side, Reed provides details and plenty of full-color pictures for everything from tools to stone varieties to uses for stone.  He expands far beyond free-standing and retaining walls to benches, paving stones, terraces and even sculpture.  After reading this book, I realized that I can use the stone I have at hand in quite a few ways besides walls.<br />The main negative is the book is just too pretty to drag outdoor where I'm working.  Of course, the easy solution to that is to photocopy the appropriate pages and take them to my worksite.<br />It is a great book for anyone interested in adding stone texture to the garden, lawn, or general landscape.	2002-11-29
US	52918371	RORPXE1GMD63B	1402200129	797562568	The Last Noel	Books	5	4	5	N	N	A beautiful love story from a great mystery writer	Love has always figured in Michale Malone's fiction, as a steady undercurrent in the whacky comedy Handling Sin, the intellectual mystery Foolscap, or the Savile and Mangum mystery trilogy.  The Last Noel however, is a love story, through and through.  <br />The story of African-American Kaye and born-to-riches Noni, both of whom have Christmas birthdays, spans forty years. Malone organizes the story in twelve chapters that parallel the twelve days of Christmas, each chapter taking place in a different year. The southern setting creates a built-in tension and certain inevitibility into the story which, ultimately, is the tale of timing gone awry -- everything that should happen happens, but none of it happens at the right moment.  And, as is true in life, most of what we do not want to happen, happens at the most inopportune moments.  <br />Malone demonstrates the same engaging narrative, detailed and colorful characters (including those on the fringe of the action) and sure-fire ear for dialogue that made his previous novels a joy to read. This time, however, he has stretched in a new direction and brought us a bitter-sweet love story.	2002-11-29
US	52918371	RJMDB6O1UW55V	1580930700	238210745	Harlem: Lost and Found	Books	3	17	20	N	N	Beautiful pictorial survey of upper Manhattan	Harlem Lost and Found (Architectural and Social History, 1765-1915), Michael Henry Adamss recently released volume on the architectural, social, and cultural history of Harlem, is a visual feast.  With beautifully reproduced etchings and engravings, crisp black and white photos and brilliant color photographs by Paul Rocheleau, Adams presents Harlems past and present architectural splendor.  He sets a lofty goal for himself  to place Harlems architecture in a context of history and people, living and dead, not only building and past residents but also those who preserve, cherish, and restore what has been built  and, visually, he succeeds.  <br />Adams has an architects eye and, seemingly, a photographic memory that allows him to correlate examples of architectural styles and trends, even when the examples are blocks, neighborhoods, or, in a few cases, boroughs apart.  Given the sheer number of structures in Harlem, this is no mean feat.  The descriptive, concise prose that accompanies the pictures is engaging and, on the surface, sounds authoritative.  Adams is at his best when developing broad architectural themes  his primary one being that neighborhoods evolve, socioeconomic and ethnic groups come and go, but architecture provides an anchor; it is a link with the past that, when lovingly preserved, becomes a bridge to the future.  In the specifics of examples and historic detail, however, Adams is often careless.  Sometimes, the result is a minor inconsistency from one section of the book to another; other times, however, the resulting inaccuracies mar the credibility of a book that professes to be history. There was a great deal of material to consider, and behind nearly every fact included lies a host of stories untold. writes Adams at the onset, In some cases, memory or notation of sources has been less than perfect; any resultant errors are my own. Amiable though that disclaimer might be, it does not excuse lax research.  <br />Adams has an expansive view of Harlem that extends to descriptions of buildings in Washington Heights as well as thumbnail sketches of forgotten areas such as Carmansville, Minniesland, and Audubon Park.  Therein lies a problem.  Although early New Yorkers referred to the area north of Harlem as Harlem Heights, that name fell out of use well before the decades that form the heart of Adamss book.  The present-day southern border of Washington Heights is 155th Street and has been since its inception more than 140 year ago.  That boundary has appeared on city maps for decades and determines, among other things, voting districts and police precincts.  Although blurred names and boundaries may seem negligible, they exaggerate Harlems geographical and cultural reach, which is not necessary  as the portions of the book that are devoted to the real Harlem clearly prove.  Further, this exaggeration denies the annexed neighborhoods the individuality their respective histories have earned them.  <br />While architectural trends north of 155th Street may serve to illustrate some of Adams themes, these neighborhoods did not share a social or cultural history with Harlem, much less with each other.  The working-class and transient population that occupied row houses in 19th Century Carmansville (clustered around Amsterdam Avenue, to the east of Broadway) had little in common with the upper-middle class families who owned large houses surrounded by cultivated gardens in Audubon Park (to the west of Broadway). Although Minniesland and Aububon Park were different names for the same area  the former from approximately 1841 to the early 1850s and the latter from about then until approximately 1910  Adams leaves the reader with the impression that they were two different areas. <br />Attention to detail does not seem to a primary concern when Adams, admittedly a good storyteller, recounts history.  He incorrectly identifies the major owner of Audubon Park (itwas George Blake Grinnell, not Jesse Benedict), confuses two Grinnells (the older was George Blake, the younger George Bird), and attributes one of Madame Audubons houses to Vaux & Withers (who may have enlarged it decades after it was built).  In more recent history, he incorrectly puts The Grinnell (an apartment building in Washington Heights) in Harlem, incorrectly states its date of co-oping, and grossly exaggerates an apartment sale-price there in 2000.<br />A beautifully produced book with an expensive cover price carries a certain amount of authority simply because it looks impressive.  Through his inattention to detail, Adams undermines his own authority and prevents this book from being the definitive history it could have been.  That said, this book is a superb pictorial survey of upper Manhattan, and deserves a place in every New York-o-philes library.	2002-11-26
US	52918371	R3DNC3PPG9D4ZA	0882660748	95815549	Building Stone Walls	Books	5	76	78	N	N	Excellent overview; good first book on building with stone	Compact and concise, John Vivian's \\"Building Stone Walls\\" is a book that you can take with you while collecting (or buying) stone for your project, preparing the location, and building your wall. It offers a good overview of stacking stone, as well as a couple of less common ways of using stone (re-channeling moving water, for example). Best of all, it has some very practical, timesaving tips, particularly advice about when it is necessary to start with a trench and gravel base and when it is not.<br />With our particular project - building a retaining wall with field stone recycled from decaying fences around our house in the Catskills - we found that Vivian's book did not include quite enough detail. He only supplies a few paragraphs on the construction of a retaining wall, though to be fair, what information he gives is practical. By itself, however, this would not have been enough to guide us through the project. <br />For more detailed information on retaining walls, we turned to \\"The Granite Kiss\\", \\"Stone in the Garden\\" and \\"The Art and Craft of Stonescaping.\\" Keep in mind, however, that the latter two books are more lavishly illustrated, a cross between a how-to book and a coffee-table book, so you probably would not take them out in the field. <BR> <BR>That said, if you have never worked with stone, and want to get an idea of what is involved in planning and preparation, finding and moving stone, and building a wall, Vivian's book is a practical and inexpensive book to buy first. Five stars for useful, concise information in a very usable format.	2002-09-05
US	52918371	R1JF2GKY3Q8VKF	0679426159	668262969	Standing in the Rainbow: A Novel	Books	5	18	20	N	N	Fannie Flagg does it again	If you are a certified baby-boomer, particularly one who was born and bred in a small town or thereabouts, &quot;Standing in the Rainbow&quot; is bound to bring back some pleasant memories- particularly memories of long, leisurely summer days when your biggest decision whether to go swimming or to go exploring with your best friend. With her usual gentle humor and beautifully-drawn characters, Fannie Flagg takes us back to a time when everyone in a small town knew everyone else, people sat on the front porch in the evenings, every drugstore had a soda-fountain, and screen doors had springs that made them to slam when little boys weren't careful.<br />That is not to say, however, that Miss Flagg sees the world only through rainbow-tinted glasses; her characters experience a wide range of experiences and emotions.  Even so, Miss Flagg always manages to help her readers smile at life, even when the humor is mixed with a few tears.<br />At the center of the novel is the Neighbor Dorothy radio show starring Mrs. Dorothy Smith with her mother-in-law, Mother Smith, at the organ. (Some readers will remember Neighbor Dorothy as a supporting character in &quot;Welcome to the World, Baby Girl.&quot;)  The story, which begins in the 1930s and reaches into the 1990s, includes Neighbor Dorothy's household, her friends, neighbors, and fans.  The cast of characters includes some colorful ones: Bobby Smith, whose learns a technique for winning the yearly bubble-blowing contest that helps him solve later problems, Tot Whooten, the local hair-stylist whose experiments with hair go as wrong as her family life, Betty Raye, the mousey member of a gospel-singing family who learns to overcome her stage-fright, and Aunt Elner who has the innate ability to adapt to any situation in any era.<br />Although the first third of the book is episodic -- a group of (sometimes unrelated) anecdotes that often bring to mind the author's early comedy routines -- as Miss Flagg develops her story, she entwines these many characters and events into a neatly woven story that leaves no loose ends. <br />Baby-boomer or not, there is plenty in Miss Flagg's straightforward storytelling and delightful characters for any reader to savor.	2002-08-20
US	52918371	R1NVPGWJIRWHUJ	0743211936	69099684	An Hour Before Daylight: Memories of a Rural Boyhood	Books	5	8	10	N	N	A great man revealed through his own words	The single most refreshing characteristic of this set of autobiographical sketches - and this book is full of refreshing elements - is that it is in no sense an apologia for President Carter's term in the White House.  For anyone who has assumed the enormous responsibilities of that office, the tendency must be great to offer reasons for his perceived sins of commission and omission, and what better place than in a book of reminiscences about his roots?  <br />Rather, President Carter, in admirably smooth and flowing prose, paints a detailed picture of the people, events, and place that influenced his early years in Archery, GA., touching upon his father's rather conservative views (it came as a surprise to learn that the elder Mr. Carter, a Democrat and farmer during the Great Depression, was not a dyed in the wool New Deal Democrat), his mother's more liberal outlook, daily life in 1930's rural GA, his relationship with the black people of his community, and much more.  For a Southerner, there is a familiar ring to the cadence of Carter's prose; for many it will conjure memories of the summer night conversations with grandparents that followed the request, \\"tell me about the olden days.\\"  For any reader, this is a revealing look at the influences on the boy who became the father of the man.<br />Perhaps it was a trick of fate, or history, but many Americans learned to appreciate President Carter's special gifts and personal goodness after he left the White House, through his work as an American ambassador at large, a diligent worker for distressed people of the world, and a hands-on leader and participant in Habitat for Humanity.  This book reinforces that appreciation and it helps explain how and where this great man developed the principled determination that has earned him such well-deserved admiration.	2001-12-15
US	52918371	RW18C0IEAQIT3	0312253079	560044213	Alexandra: The Last Tsarina	Books	2	1	1	N	N	Lacks interest	The parallels between the last tsarina, Alexandra, and the last queen of France, Marie Antoinette are startling to say the least.  Each was a foreign-born queen whose initial inability to adapt to a highly regulated court earned her enemies, each had an invalid son, each had a weak, vacillating husband and a male mentor, each was accused of sexual indiscretions, each found their worst enemies in female relatives who should, and could have been supportive, each was considered cold and aloof...and the list goes on, culminating in their executions for the presumed benefit of the state.  <br />It is interesting that in a book focused on the Tsarina Alexandra, not on the royal family, not on her relationship with the Tsar, not on Rasputin, but on the Tsarina, Carolly Erickson makes no mention of these parallels.  It is also unfortunate, as these parallels might have given anchor to an otherwise wandering and shallow biography.  Not that the book lacks information, of that, there is plenty; however, there is no compelling thesis to urge the reader on to the next page. In some passages, it is not clear where the author found her information. E.g., the frequent appearance of conversations presented in quotation marks, but without annotation, gives the impression that she is straying into the realm of historical fiction which detracts from the book's authenticity.  Most readers with an interest in the last Russian imperial family will have already read most of this information before, in more detail, and packaged more interestingly. <br />Although it is an easy read, this book is not compelling and, therefore, is overall, disappointing.	2001-12-15
US	52918371	R3CT4DAKPKYHJ6	0670885371	886873880	Joan of Arc	Books	3	9	10	N	N	Detailed character sketch of the &quot;warrior-maiden&quot;	If you are looking for a detailed biography of Joan of Arc, do not begin with this slender little book.  Although it contains the basic events and chronology and although it includes color from bits of social commentary, it is not an in depth analysis, nor does it purport to be.  Rather, it is an extended character sketch of a remarkable woman whose life -- except for the short time during which she went to battle, was captured, and endured a trial whose outcome seems to have been pre-ordained -- is obscure.  It is interesting to realize that many of the details of her life come from her confession and from testimony at her trial.<br />Mary Gordon's is at her best when analyzing the dichotomy inherent in Joan of Arc's appeal as a warrior-maiden. Her ruminations lean at times a bit too much toward stream-of-conscious; however, she does prove capable of inserting quite a bit of information in the short format imposed by this series.	2001-12-14
US	52918371	R3VWW3X61VG2E	0941807525	30123772	The Bird's Christmas Carol	Books	4	31	31	N	N	Put this one on your Christmas reading list	This is one of the books my third-grade teacher read aloud to us after recess to ease us back into our afternoon studies.  It took at least a week, perhaps two for her to work her way through the story, which many of us had not heard before (unless we had an older brother or sister who had heard her read it during a previous year and came home to retell it).  Some of her book choices appealed more to girls, some more to boys, but this one, I remember distinctly -- more than forty years later -- kept all of us attentive.<br />The story, set in the 1880's, is simple: after several sons, a family finally has a little girl, who is named Carol because she is born on Christmas morning when the sounds of the choir singing a carol came floating in the window of the house.  Sadly, she has an illness (unnamed) that the she and family must accept is incurable and will be fatal.  Although she has just about every toy imaginable, and the continuous attention of her parents and older brothers, she longs to do something for someone else and decides, after a bit of thinking, to throw a birthday party (i.e., Christmas party) and invite the poor Ruggles children who live in the lane.  <br />It can not be denied that the story is dripping with Victorian sentimentality and that Carol is almost too good to be true, nor can it be denied that it is effectively told and will touch all but the hardest hearts.  The image of the Ruggles children wrapped in blankets while their mother washed their clothes in anticipation of the party is but one of the vivid vignettes in this delightful book.<br />Along with the Nativity story and &quot;A Christmas Carol&quot;, put this on top of the list for holiday reading.  As my third-grade teacher (long-departed) proved, this is a wonderful read-aloud story.	2001-12-12
US	52918371	R2VSURHGJZ86L5	0688171443	369837245	Gilded City: Scandal and Sensation in Turn-of-the-Century New York	Books	2	4	6	N	N	A series of college lectures repackaged as a book	A few weeks after I finished this book, I picked it up off of the shelf thinking I might like to read it -- and realized when I opened it, that I had already read it. There just had not been enough substance to impress itself upon me. That is really a shame because the time period is a fascinating one and Dr. Dunlop obviously knows her stuff. <br />The problem seems to be the format. Each of the chapters is presented as a set piece. Although there are themes that hold them together, there is no real development from beginning to end of the book. Adding to this fragmented approach are the notes that follow each chapter rather than coming at the end of the book. One is left with the impression that Dr. Dunlop has compiled some of her favorite, perhaps most popular lecturers and repackaged them as a book. No doubt she is a good lecturer and respected in academia. Having skills in the classroom, however, does not necessarily translate into being a good author.<br />With a few line drawings and etchings -- no photographs -- these are slim pickings indeed.	2001-12-08
US	52918371	R41H8FUMB6QTF	0807126357	196094739	The Cry of An Occasion: Fiction from the Fellowship of Southern Writers	Books	4	2	2	N	N	A mixed box of chocolates	Anthologies are like boxes of chocolates: some pieces are good, some are excellent, some you might bite and put back, and some just do not interest you.  Some pieces appeal to everyone, some do not.  The piece that one person rejects may be another's favorite.   However, if you are going to find those pieces that suit your taste just right, you must buy the whole box.   \\"The Cry of an Occasion\\" is just such an assortment, containing work by nineteen writers, all southern.  Not every piece will interest every reader equally, but there will probably be a delicious handful for each.<br />As might be expected of a \\"southern\\" anthology, religion, family, sense of place and race are themes that weave through the various stories; however, while some themes may be regional, the scope and treatment of these themes are universal.<br />\\"The Encyclopedia Daniel\\" by Fred Chappell is an odd little story with an Edgar Allen Poe twist.  \\"Feeling Good, Feeling Fine\\" is a by George Garrett is a quick, broad-stroked vignette of a southern institution - the family relation who isn't quite right.  \\"Sim Denny\\" is a painful story about an elderly black man who first attempts, unsuccessfully, to ignore the civil rights movement, and then attempts, equally unsuccessfully, to join it.  My personal favorite is William Hoffman's examination of family dysfunction, \\"The Secret Garden\\" - a tale whose several narrators offer their observations about the central character, while revealing their own roles as enablers.<br />Such is the variety of this sampler, there should not be any reader who does not find at least several pieces to satisfy his interests.	2001-12-08
US	52918371	R27GJLBAIRJCTM	0375753834	926761267	Georgiana: Duchess of Devonshire	Books	4	7	8	N	N	Excellent coverage of a frustrating woman	Amanda Foreman brings extensive research and detailed period knowledge to &quot;Georgiana, Duchess of Devonshire,&quot; but does not let her research or knowledge interfere with her compelling story-telling ability.  With admirable aplomb, she details upper-class British existence in the second half of the 18th Century, giving social context to the intrigues, political alliances, patronage, extramarital dalliances, and daily routines that comprised Georgiana's life.<br />Unfortunately, for modern readers, Georgiana might prove to be a distasteful character.  Unfaithful to her husband (who was equally unfaithful to her), she was willing to allow his mistress easy access, even encouragement, to him.  At the same time, to avoid confrontation, she was willing to pretend illness for days at a time.  A friend of Marie Antoinette, Georgiana shared her fear of, and dependence on a strong mother.  An able canvasser for her husband and other politicians, she had the intelligence and instinct to have served in public office better than they.<br />Georgiana's addiction to the gaming tables and constantly increasing debt to everyone from her friends and gambling partners to professional loan sharks are a prevalent, and unpleasant theme throughout her adult life and most of this book.  Were she living in 20th Century America, one could imagine her checking joining a self-help group, or perhaps checking into rehab.  After chapters of this addiction, which as Ms. Foreman clearly illustrates was common in Georgiana's class and period, the reader might be forgiven for wanting to take Georgiana by the shoulder's and attempt to shake some sense into her.  The sense of impending doom becomes, at times, an impediment to enjoying Ms. Foreman's well-crafted book.   <br />That discomfort is, however, not nearly as much a criticism of Ms. Foreman as it is a compliment to her ability to help the reader empathize with her subject.<br />As an added bonus, there is a centersection of color pictures, some of which depict the luxury in which Georgiana lived.<br />A fascinating history of a complex woman living in extraordinary times.	2001-12-08
US	52918371	R3H751SRYESEIN	0805033203	365181304	A Short History of a Small Place: A Novel	Books	5	31	32	N	N	One of my favorite American novels	&quot;A Short History of a Small Place&quot; is on my personal list of ten best American novels.  Mr. Pearson is a Southern story-teller to the bone, interrupting himself, digressing, supplying minute detail, but always focusing on the main thread of the story, always evoking a sense of place, and always, always depicting characters whose eccentricities are both endearing and defining.  <br />I first became acquainted with Mr. Pearson and this, his first-published work, in the mid '80s when I was living in North Carolina and heard this novel read on a radio program, a medium which suited it perfectly, given Mr. Pearson's conversational style. Soon after, I read it for myself, and have since reread it in entirety and in part, enjoying it even more with each new visit.<br />Through the eyes of young Louis Benfield, who though apparently innocent is a keen observer, the reader meets the inhabitants of Neely, NC and learns some of the history that causes them to do the things they do.  The ancient Miss Pettigrew, who has never recovered from being jilted is a not-too-distant cousin to Miss Haversham. The Epperson sisters with their petition and seemingly unending quest, Louis's mother who washes dishes and stares out the window (behavior that the reader comprehends immediately, but Louis only gradually), the town Sheriff who is not as fearless as he seems to Louis, all are fully drawn portraits of endearing people. <br />Every year, close to Christmas time, I take out &quot;A Short History&quot; and re-read the Christmas pageant section in which Miss Pettigrew's appearance causes such a stir that the dog (that would be the dog playing the part of the donkey in the Christmas play) knocks over a candle and nearly sets fire to the whole church.  It is both uproariously funny and completely recognizable for anyone who grew up in a small place (regardless of geography) and participated in the yearly church Christmas pageant.<br />Since &quot;A Short History&quot;, I've eagerly awaited each of Mr. Pearson's successive novels and have enjoyed all of them;his humorous observation of human frailty remains keen.  With each successive novel, he has tightened his style and honed his descriptive abilities, which is admirable, but I must admit that it was the expansive, langorous style of his first story -- a style of story-telling that took me back decades to a front porch, summer heat, and my grandmother's voice -- that I most admired and enjoyed.	2001-12-05
US	52918371	R22TZDVZGLKP4V	0312244266	997866733	Winter Solstice	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Engrossing story, well-told	Someone gave me this book as a gift, leaving me with the impression that she didn't know my taste very well.  How wrong I was!  Whereas I thought I had received a &quot;girly&quot; book at best and a &quot;romance&quot; novel at worst, I discovered that after glancing at the first page, I was pulled in to read more.  It didn't take long for me to get hooked and I found I was in the midst of a real page-turner.  <br />Ms. Pilcher handles the different threads of her story masterfully, alternating broad strokes and small to delineate characters and paint realistic scenery.  Although some of her plotting devices could have seemed contrived (especially the two possible owners for the house), she cleverly made them seem plausible.<br />Once everyone is collected in the new house and the &quot;plot begins to thicken&quot; I was rooting for my choice of outcome, only to find that Ms. Pilcher had other plans--equally satisfactory.  <br />The ideal place to read this book would be in front of an open fire.  Lacking that (and I don't have a fireplace, so option one was not possible), in bed under a warm comforter is a good second choice.  Of course, it could be argued that any place would become comfortable once the reader was engrossed in Ms. Pilcher's delightful story.	2001-12-04
US	52918371	RB5CNOBBK7A94	0743200101	420421531	A World Full of Gods: The Strange Triumph of Christianity	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Interesting approach to history	The borders between history and fiction blur in Mr. Hopkins book, yielding an interesting read, but a lurking impression that maybe this isn't really history.  It left me with rather the same feeling I have after reading a well-researched historical novel -- just how much artistic license has the author taken. Without having a broad base of knowledge, one must trust that Mr. Hopkins knows his subject and has only taken license in presentation is he believes that his fictional creations do not materially alter the facts.  Although I don't expect his method will soon change the way history is written, I did enjoy his genre-bending; his approach kept my interest to the end and I did pick up some interesting information about religious trends that competed with Christianity in its formative years.	2001-12-04
US	52918371	RPNVWDFRP49E0	1555534880	137140208	Covent Garden, the Untold Story: Dispatches from the English Culture War, 1945-2000	Books	3	29	29	N	N	Interesting material, off-putting tone	Imagine sitting down for a lengthy chat with a person who has researched his material extensively and has organized it such that he can present a detailed analysis, answering all of your questions before you ask them. Sounds appealing, right? Now add another variable to the conversation: the person takes a superior tone, puts a negative spin on almost every aspect of the story, and frequently inserts titillating but irrelevant details. On balance, would you put up with the narrator's tone and bias in order to obtain the information he offers? If your answer is yes and you are even remotely interested in opera read this book; if no, think twice.<br />The good parts first: No one can honestly question Mr. Lebrecht's scholarship. Apparently, his extensive sleuthing met with numerous obstacles, from uncooperative government officials to a woman who had burnt material left in her safekeeping because she did not realize its importance. Nor can one fault his organization. Although he sometimes moves ahead of himself to conclude a particular section, he always brings the reader back to the timeline of the story. Few, if any opera fans will complain that their favorite performer is not included; from Abbado to Zeffirelli, they are all there, as a quick look at the index confirms. <br />However, the performers are really the walk-ons in this book.  The starring roles are taken by the management -- the bureaucractic officials (operatic and governmental), the artistic directors, choreographers, chorus masters, union leaders, board members --  for the focus is not so much on what happens on stage as how it gets there in the first place.  <br />Lebrecht is most objective when he is writing the social and governmental history that parallels ROH history, e.g., his two and  page description of the social revolution of the early sixties, (pp. 213-215) is succinct and right on the mark. He then seques neatly into the opera house with: &quot;The trick to any revolution is to stay intouch with public sentiment without succumbing to demotic pressure. The worst mistake is turn one's back on the tide - which is what Covent Garden proceeded to do.&quot; Unfortunately, that reasoned tone is not the prevalent one in the book.<br />Most often, Lebrecht's tone is unremittingly haughty and sarcastic. Not only is this off-putting, it adds nothing to his credibility, particularly in those instances in which he insists upon revealing personal details that have no bearing on an individual's professional performance. Mr. Lebrecht central argument is strong on its own without adding details about who slept with whom and where. A little more &quot;don't ask, don't tell&quot; would have helped immeasurably. <br />To be fair, even when he is being sarcastic, he can turn an effective phrase: &quot;Callas, torn between heart and art, was drifting in the slipstream of her shipowner lover, Onassis.&quot; Problem is, too much cleverness can be grating on the ear, putting an obstacle between the reader and Lebrecht's excellent research. On balance, Lebrecht appears to represent that brand of opera-lover who cannot resist snippy-snide remarks; one wonders if he visits the opera house hoping to enjoy the performance or ready to pounce on the slightest misstep.<br />Occasionally, Lebrecht contradicts himself. A small example: on page 134, after a few disparaging remarks about performances of &quot;The Bohemian Girl&quot;, he notes that it &quot;vanished once again into a mist.&quot; Well, not quite. On page 158 it emerges from the mist in an anecdote about Maria Callas and Joan Sutherland. Nor did it vanish after page 158. As most of Dame Joan's fans know, she recorded an aria from that opera, &quot;I Dreamt I Dwelt in Marble Halls&quot; and sang it in recital throughout her career. <br />According to the jacket notes, Lebrecht has a live call-in radio show. Undoubtedly he has sharpened his wit and tongue in response to the opera cognoscenti, some of whom can be wickedlybiting when offering their opinions. Had he tempered his well-developed wit just a little more, I would have given his book top marks on research, organization, and interest. The lower mark reflects Lebrecht tone which, for me, was an obstacle to complete enjoyment of this book.	2001-12-02
US	52918371	R1OVBBG1QP5FSU	1575665492	871425603	My Best Man	Books	4	5	6	N	N	A new twist to an old problem	Andy Schell's variation on a well-worn theme -- the heir can only have the money if he complies with his father's last wish -- is both entertaining and clever.  His twist on the story is that the heir, who is gay, must get married or he looses the money to his obnoxious brother who is straight. Just by chance, and right on cue, Harry finds the perfect candidate for a wife, or so he thinks.  With that, the story is off and running.<br />Mr. Schell handles his story-line well, creates believable and very funny characters, and throws in a few red herrings to let the reader know that he knows that they've heard this story before.  The many details of the middle America setting has a ring of authenticity as do the scenes when Harry is at work as an airline flight attendant, and the dialogue is, at times, laugh-out-loud funny.<br />Completely unpretentious, this book provided exactly what Mr. Schell seems to have offered: great entertainment.	2001-12-01
US	52918371	RE4RPUXWJ6UNP	1561581615	580091269	The Kitchen Idea Book (Idea Books)	Books	4	20	21	N	N	Just what the title says it is	The Kitchen Idea Book is exactly what is claims to be: a book full of ideas for the kitchen.  Bouknight writes very little text to accompany the scores of color pictures; but what text there is is concise and helpful.  She includes quite a few lay-out designs, gives the pros and cons of various materials and includes a both a short list of further information and a long list of the vendors featured in the book.  For the most part, however, she lets the pictures do the work as she leads the reader through the basics of kitchen design and options for cabinets, countertops, floors, appliances, and lighting. Some of the choices and color schemes are very traditional, others less conventional, my favorite of the latter being concrete countertops.  <br />For someone remodelling or building a new home, this book is a God-send (Bouknight has given ample information to give even the least secure reader confidence necessary for talking to a designer, contractor or kitchen salesperson), for someone who would like to spruce up an existing kitchen without a complete remodelling job, there are dozens of ideas, and for someone who enjoys interior design, this book will provide hours of entertainment.	2001-11-30
US	52918371	R3F7WV6KGEVUE2	0375406425	123472120	Crucible of War: The Seven Years' War and the Fate of Empire in British North America, 1754-1766	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Long, but worth the effort	Let's get one thing straight at the onset: this is not an easy book to read.  For me, there were numerous references to unfamiliar American Indian tribes, unknown British generals, and a host of geographical names that all sounded exactly alike; consequently, I had to backtrack several times to clarify who was fighting whom and where.  It was, however, a very rewarding book to read and worth the extra effort.  It completely revamped my previous (misguided) impressions of the French and Indian War, impressions, granted, that lingered from elementary and high school history classes long ago from which I gathered the idea that the war was a local, American conflict in which George Washington showed the British how they should fight the American way, and which led to the colonists realizing they did not need England any longer so a few years later, they declared independence.  (Naive, yes, but some of those ideas instilled early on die very hard.)<br />In a logical, stepwise manner, Anderson explains how the French and Indian War was part of a global conflict, illustrates the social conflict between the colonists and British soldiers, and clarifies the different allegiances of various tribes of American Indians (to mention but three of the many well-developed themes in this book).  <br />At the same time, he gives detailed descriptions of the battles, political infighting in England, and simultaneous European developments.  Pulling all of these strands together is no small task, but Anderson accomplishes it admirably and, best of all, in extremely readable prose.<br />There are also ample pictures and maps (to help sort out all the place names), a detailed index, and extensive end notes.	2001-11-30
US	52918371	R3P6YHQV9VZSH	0060188731	546555129	Bel Canto: A Novel	Books	5	5	6	N	N	A beautifully sung novel	What a beautiful story, musical from beginning to end! Ms. Patchett's writing is lyrical, her characters completely believable (albeit full of surprises), and her ability to spin a story exemplary.  <br />The task she has assigns herself, managing a large, diverse group of characters involved in complex interactions in a confined space, is not an easy one; yet, she carefully differentiates each character from the others-even the terrorists, who could easily have become generic villains.  <br />As the story develops and relationships emerge among the various captives and captors, the boundaries between them begin to blur, as do their roles in the adventure.  Odd to relate, but the boundaries between the fictional characters and me began to blur as well. Long before the end of the story, the covers of the book had disappeared and I had become part of the story.<br />This was one of my favorite novels in 2001. Like a beautifully sung aria, it spread its wings and took flight, carrying me along with it, making me wish it could go on and on and on.	2001-11-29
US	52918371	RXNEXCR3NFR6A	0375405445	406271874	Founding Brothers: The Revolutionary Generation	Books	5	10	12	N	N	Engrossing history lesson	In this life, there are leaders and there are followers.  In Founding Brothers, Mr. Ellis tells the saga of six leaders whose contributions influenced the original shape and form of the US government: John Adams, Aaron Burr, Benjamin Franklin, Alexander Hamilton, Thomas Jefferson, James Madison, and George Washington.  As told by Mr. Ellis in extremely accessible prose, their personal and working relationships were sometimes harmonious, sometimes discordant, sometimes, as in the case of Burr and Hamilton, lethal.  In six chapters, with intriguing titles such as The Dinner, The Friendship, and The Silence, Mr. Ellis touches on the major issues facing the \\"founding brothers\\", including federal versus state authority, the banking system, the location of the new capitol, and the slavery question.  But, don't be put off by the apparently dry subject matter.  Mr. Ellis's writing style and clear organization make this fascinating reading. (Should you get to a bumpy part, slog on through, it is necessary background for the next captivating bit.) After the first read, this is one for the permanent library, to have close at hand for reference and re-reading.	2001-11-27
US	52918371	R35ZD1Q36TKP20	0375707123	702874237	Cinderella and Company: Backstage at the Opera with Cecilia Bartoli	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Opera 101	This book belongs in the library of everyone with a passing interest in the world of opera, not so much for what it reveals about Ms. Bartoli (which is precious little except that she is perpetually in the midst of a family crisis), but because of Manuela Hoelterhoff's deliciously wicked, slightly skewed view of the art form that brings together the best, and worst, aspects of drama and music.  Ms. Hoelterhoff's several years honing her word craft as opera reviewer for the Wall Street Journal were not wasted.  She is masterful with a well-turned phrase, as shown in her description of a famous operatic manager, \\"a motor-mouthed, bullet-headed, forever-tan egomaniac who is adored and loathed in about equal proportions among those who've had the joy of doing business with him.\\"  And her knowledge of opera and singers is encyclopedic.  Sometimes she is laugh-out-loud funny-her one run-on sentence synopsis of Bellini's La Straniera is a knee-slapper-other times, she elicits an internal smile, but always, she offers insightful commentary on the world of opera.  (Her insider's view of Roberto Alagna and Angela Gheorghiu, for example, clarifies why they are the operatic couple everyone loves to hate.)  Buy this book for your permanent library-and mark the passages that tickle your funny-bone so that you can find them quickly if you need to brighten your day.  (If this book is had an index so that one can easily find his or her favorite parts, I would have given it five stars.)	2001-11-27
US	52918371	RC1AGMSTXZJDH	0679455086	479337065	Hans Christian Andersen: The Life of a Storyteller	Books	4	9	11	N	N	Good biography of a flawed subject	Although this is a highly readable, extremely informative biography, the death of my Hollywood-derived impressions of Hans Christian Anderson, as personified by Danny Kaye, was a tortured one.<br />As Wullschlager clearly illustrates, Anderson was not a very likeable character. Easily wounded and quick to take offense (even where it was unwarranted), strangely self-assured to the point of embarrassing those around him with his pomposity and silliness (if not himself), he seems to have been almost incapable of giving the same friendship that he demanded of others. Even so, Wullschlager succeeds in making him sympathetic. Rather than try to make excuses for his behavior, she just lays out the facts and presents him as he was. She is particularly effective when she associates events in Anderson's life with the fairy tales and repeating literary themes they inspired.<br />That Anderson was able to transform his inner demons into timeless, allegorical tales that are both touching and uplifting is remarkable. That he was able to do so after having overcome seemingly insurmountable hurdles in his background and early education marks him for the genius he was-warts and all.<br />This is a very good biography of an unusual, but brilliant, story-teller.	2001-11-27
US	52918371	R2UOWDJHYBB6OY	038548948X	126353102	Marie Antoinette: The Journey	Books	5	234	241	N	N	Thoroughly engrossing biography	True or false?  1) Marie Antoinette was a frivolous princess who became a clever, manipulative queen 2) She ruled France through her weak husband 3) She said of the bread-less French, \\"Let them eat cake.\\" 4)  In her spare time, she enjoyed dressing as a milk maid and wandering around a fake farm she had built at Versailles.  If you answered \\"true\\" to any of these questions, you will want to read Antonia Fraser's detailed, engrossing biography of Marie Antoinette.  Fraser's work is well-documented and scholarly, but it is neither dry nor slow reading.  She provides sufficient background information to put the historical events in context, but does not allow the facts to hinder the flow of the story.  Her writing has an immediacy that pulls the reader so deeply into the story, it is easy to forget that we already know the ending of this historical life.  (When the royal family attempts to escape their French captors, Fraser allows us to think-to hope-they might get away.)  Through Fraser's eyes, we first sympathize, and then empathize with the princess who only became queen by accident.  In addition, Frazer gives us a thorough education in the social order at Versailles, the complex bureaucracy (and attendant jobs) of the French court, and the political infighting that ultimately was the downfall of the entire system.  This is a thoroughly engrossing biography-a keeper.	2001-11-26
US	52918371	R2Q6S7Z81F3600	0395068150	527095131	Mrs. Wappinger's Secret	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Great children's book	The first time I read this book was more than forty years ago since which time, I've re-read five or six times and lent my copy to friends, all of whom have enjoyed it as much as I.  This is the story of one particular summer on Osprey Island when eccentric Mrs. Wappinger enlists young Charlie Porter (who visits the island with his family every summer) in a treasure hunt.  As a cover for their activities, they pretend they are digging a garden on the bluff near Mrs. Wappinger's house.  Charlie must keep his secret not only from his inquisitive family, but also from his friends.  Along the way, during the summer, he accidentally crosses paths with the irritable Mr. Simpson, boats with his pal, Tommy Buxton, and, faces a major challenge to his rowing ability.  An excellent book to read again and again.	2001-11-26
US	52918371	RV3J35RGGFKDM	0802713661	446043681	Brunelleschi's Dome: How a Renaissance Genius Reinvented Architecture	Books	4	6	7	N	N	Concise and interesting story	Don't let the title put you off.  This is not a dry bit of engineering history as much as it is a detailed (and focused) picture of 15th century Florence.  Using the building of the dome as a fulcrum, Mr. King touches upon everyday life in Florence, church and city politics, guilds and workers, quirky Florentine personalities, and, above all, Brunelleschi's creative genius.  The black and white drawings that fill in the gaps when imagination might falter are well suited to the concisely told story.	2001-11-26
US	52918371	R2V4GY24J9X2VZ	0844201413	308232370	Walking Paris : Thirty Original Walks In and Around Paris	Books	4	31	32	N	N	Informative and interesting, but a sometimes not clear	This book is a must for anyone who enjoys seeing a city on foot, and Paris is a city that is best seen on foot, in all weathers.  Each tour includes a map as well as an approximate time and suggestions for places to stop for a bite to eat.  They are also cross-indexed by topic, e.g., museums, historical, shopping, and even by length of walk.  Some of the tours dovetail so that if you are still energetic at the conclusion of one, you can begin another.  Contrariwise, if you only want to see part of a tour, you can begin in the middle or, using the map, skip parts.<br />A couple of caveats: First, it is best to read each tour once through before starting, otherwise you might find yourself back-tracking because you missed a turn and, some people might prefer to move a little more quickly, omitting some of the detail.  Second, every now and again, it appears that something is missing, e.g., in the Assemblee Nationale, Concorde, and Opera tour, at the top of page 116, there is reference to a house in which Proust lived while he wrote A la recherche du temps perdu; however, the number (102) does not agree with any of the streets in the area.  After backing up and trying several times, we finally gave up on that one.<br />Those, however, are small points.  Overall, the book is very interesting and very informative.	2001-11-24
US	52918371	R15BKRF33NJHX4	059035342X	667539744	Harry Potter and the Sorcerer's Stone	Books	5	17	20	N	N	Don't even try to resist Pottermania	There is something about reading what &quot;everyone&quot; is reading that goes against my grain, so I put off Harry Potter until a couple of weeks ago.  Then, in anticipation of the movie, decided to read a little of The Socerer's Stone to get an idea of what all the hoopla was about. At the risk of sound trite, I couldn't put it down. Once I did (which was when I finished it), I immediately worked through book two and then book three. (I've just ordered book four and eagerly await it.)<br />With more than 3000 other reviews already posted, there is very little I can add except to say to anyone who, like me, thought that they were a little too mature, too old, too well-read, or too emotionally advanced to enjoy Ms. Rowling's creation, &quot;Get on with it! Do it now! Stop depriving yourself!&quot;<br />These books are a pure unmitigated delight. The allusions to mythology, fairytales, and popular culture are both many and extremely clever.  Even someone like me who did not attend a private school, can enjoy the school rivalries and tricks.<br />Buy this book.  Read it.  Now! (And then go see the movie.)	2001-11-23
US	52918371	R2I0G288HS6LBZ	0671662414	105963080	O Jerusalem!	Books	5	22	23	N	N	Detailed and fascinating history	Collins and Lapierre focus their book, O Jerusalem on one city in the years between World War II and the creation of the independent state of Israel, but, the story itself spans centuries and continents.  This is a book about courage, terrorism, heroism, deprivation, politics, and, ultimately, war.<br />Concentrating their narrative on material gleaned from thousands of interviews, the authors intersperse personal histories-heroic, tragic, and sometimes even humorous-with public history to create an illuminating epic, part folk, part academic. Their emphasis on ordinary people reacting in ordinary ways to extraordinary events encourages the reader to empathize with characters on both sides of what was, and continues to be, a complex stuggle.<br />Collins and Lapierre allow the story to expand as they trace the roots of the conflict back into Biblical history and as the participants travel the post-WWII world, seeking weapons, political support and military solutions.  However, no matter how far afield the story wanders, the authors always bring it back to its center, Jerusalem.  <br />More than fifty years after the central events of this story, it is interesting and instructive for historians, amateur and professional, to review who was allied with whom in the Middle East of the 1940's and who provided the training, weapons, and support to which of the participants in the struggle.  ... Although it does not provide the complete answer, it is an excellent place to begin the search.	2001-11-23
US	52918371	R5NVN11M0T34I	038548187X	136266992	Molto Agitato: The Mayhem Behind the Music at the Metropolitan Opera	Books	2	19	24	N	N	A good read, but not exactly original	Ms. Fiedler is a good story-teller. Like most good story-tellers, she makes her material her own and, for the most part, can make us forget that we have heard most of these tales before. In her preface, Ms. Fiedler tells us that this is &quot;the study of the politics of an institution...and the three main forces that propel it: the artistic, the financial, and the social.&quot; Writing a book that balances those three elements is problematical. Ms. Fiedler does not always rise to the challenge, although it is interesting to watch her try.<br />Unfortunately, the book seems to be strong on anecdote and gossip (often masquerading under the guise of politics) and weak on the day-to-day business operations of a multi-million dollar business. Ms. Fiedler may have assumed that most opera lovers find too much financial and business information boring; probably she was right. But if that were the case, might she not have done better to write to a less diverse audience and with a sharper focus? At times, Ms. Fiedler appears to be the ultimate opera junky. &quot;Have you heard the one about...?&quot; At other times, she appears to have a personal axe to grind, e.g., who else in the opera world has ever accused Dame Joan Sutherland of being &quot;cool and testy&quot;? Ms. Fiedler's rather ungracious telling of the debacle that left New York audiences without Dame Joan for upwards of three years leaves one rather irritated with Ms. Fiedler. After all, Dame Joan gave us years of pleasure; Ms. Fiedler has given us a mediocre book. <br />For, ultimately, that is what this is, a mediocre rehash of anecdotes that have traveled the music circuit over the last few decades. The stories are repackaged nicely and the book is a good read, but eventually, it does leave one wondering why someone on the inside for fifteen years couldn't tell us something we didn't already know. <br />Check it out of the library; you don't need this book in your permanent collection.	2001-11-22
US	52918371	R22QRXSM6GAPN8	0449912051	957548406	Patron Saint of Liars	Books	5	7	9	N	N	A gem of a story	Ann Patchett's ability to inhabit her characters' minds is stunning...In The Patron Saint of Liars, she is (in order) the wife, the husband, and the child, each of the book's three sections building upon the others, moving the story along chronologically while adding layers to each of the three main characters.  All of this technical bravura, however, appears to exist solely to allow Ms. Patchett to tell us her stories.  And, The Patron Saint of Liars is a wonderful, intricate story, of Rose, who refuses to believe that she is worthy of happiness and keeps running to evade the truth, Son, the man who accepts her and her child with open-hearted love, and Cecilia, the daughter she is afraid to love.  Among the host of supporting characters, each fully sketched and colorful, Sister Evangeline stands out most clearly, an elderly nun who has little cooking ability and unusual powers of prophecy even though she sometimes appears unaware of what is happening before her eyes.  As the book draws to a close, Patchett allows the reader to feel a bit smug in understanding what is happening to Sister Evangeline, even though the good Sister seems unaware of it herself.  Throughout the book, Patchett gives the reader full warning what will happen eventually, but it makes no difference...	2001-11-22
US	52918371	R2UW7ZH99WDFWL	0813919932	775742842	Never Ask Permission : Elisabeth Scott Bocock of Richmond	Books	5	13	13	N	N	An Eccentric CEO	Knowing a bona fide eccentric, especially a benevolent one, is simultaneously an entertaining and exasperating experience.  Sharing that experience with others is usually daunting.  Either the essence of the person being described becomes lost in a jumble of amusing but disjointed anecdotes or eccentricity overwhelms the eccentric, rendering a flat, one-dimensional cartoon in place of a complex, multi-faceted portrait. <br />In Never Ask Permission, Mary Buford Hitz tackles this daunting task head on, the subject of this memoir being her mother, Elizabeth Scott Bocock or, as she often signed herself, ESB.  Rather than take a sequential, \\"I-am-born\\" approach, the author chooses to devote separate chapters to different aspects of her mother's personality, each chapter a self-contained essay, overflowing with anecdotes, quotes, and, perhaps most illuminating of all, snippets of ESB's autobiographical sketches. (Most of these autobiographical excerpts, by the way, come from essays ESB wrote during her college years, which began after her sixty-seventh birthday.)  Just as a puzzle becomes a picture as each piece falls into place, so does ESB's complex character come into focus, chapter by chapter, with a poignant, but essential clue to this charming, but undeniably complex Virginian saved until the very end.  <br />Many CEO's could learn from ESB's capacity to set goals and achieve them.  As ESB emerges from the pages of this lovingly crafted book, the reader meets a determined and creative thinker who probably would not have been impressed with &quot;left-brain/right-brain, lateral thinking, creative problem-solving, if you aren't part of the solution, you're part of the problem&quot; lingo, but who embodied the positive persona such jargon seeks to describe.  With one foot firmly planted in late Victorian America and the other constantly, restlessly forcing her into the future, she was a visionary with an astonishing ability to get things done. <br />If you enjoy biography, if you are fascinated by Virginia, if you want some side-splitting laughs, or if you are just interested in a good read, this is the book for you.	2000-12-31
