US	52918983	R2G1GG7A84JGB	0300078803	135277436	The Spanish Inquisition: A Historical Revision	Books	4	37	43	N	N	Fine Starter for Bewildering Period	I own a reprint of Kamen's original book of this title and the revised history book and they are superb starters for the period in question.  Previous histories of the Spanish Inquisition focused on the more salacious anecdotal evidence.  Lea's masterful book, long the standard, is terribly flawed because of his research.  Lea's sources were largely English and French.  England was a Protestant country that was at war with Catholic Spain and France, an emerging (Catholic) power was envious of Spain and needed to drive it down for colonial purposes in the new world.  Therefore, Lea's sources were largely based on the propaganda of rivals.  A previous review recommended books by Jean Plaidy, but Plaidy (aka Victoria Holt, etc) is a novelist.  I have not read Plaidy's works so cannot assess them.  I don't even know if they are novels.  And in the past novelists have written servicable histories.  But a novelist will still have his eye on the salacious, trying to shape raw facts into a story (if they use primary sources at all).  There is no conflict of interest in using Vatican sources for the Inquisition as the Spanish Inquisition was Catholic, although a case may be made that it was guided more by &quot;secular&quot; governmental authorities (Torquemada was the confessor of Isabella of Aragon before being head of the inquisition).  It's always hard to find that things one always believed are incorrect, and Kamen's presentation of the Spanish Inquisition may shatter long-held illusions.  (I'm surprised the reviewer who recommended the Plaidy book didn't say Kamen was wrong because he didn't say Inquisitors had to be clad in red, wear flight goggles, and that Kamen never mentioned the dreaded Comfy Chair.  Kamen presents a Spanish Inquisition Nobody Expects!	2004-06-18
US	52918983	R31TT09Z744LP0	0060746734	799934454	The Connection: How al Qaeda's Collaboration with Saddam Hussein Has Endangered America	Books	5	49	76	N	N	Fair and Balanced Review	Looking at the previous reviews of this book, the ones with few stars are obviously politically motivated.  It's doubtful that they've read the book, and some indulge in outrageous and even dystopian tangents that  have no connection to the subject at hand. However, after the outcry for &quot;connecting the dots&quot; after 9-11 it doesn't make sense to sweep other connected dots under the rug.  Did Saddam Hussein have connections to terrorists?  Indisputably.  To argue otherwise is to hide one's head (to speak diplomatically) in the sand.  Was he connected to 9-11?  Possibly.  The important thing to understand is that author Stephen F. Hayes can only put forth &quot;dots&quot;.  Like any good prosecuting attorney, he presents his case clearly, giving exhibits that build a case on circumstantial evidence.  But to be fair, the &quot;dots&quot; that should have been connected to stop 9-11 (if it could be humanly stopped) are also tenuous, unless one sees them with the benefit of hindsight.  I will not say whether Hayes (in the interest of full disclosure, it must be said he works for  the _Weekly Standard_, which raises as much hackles as a worker for _The New York Times_ to a so-called Neo-Con) proves his case.  READ THE BOOK FOR YOURSELF, especially before you have the temerity to write a negative review.  In fact, the reviews (all reviews) of this book, including positive ones, should be ignored because they are meaningless.  If one thinks Iraq is the centerpiece on the war on terror, the reviews will be positive (though also one has to admit in those cases the book was probably read);  if one adamantly refuses to admit Saddam Hussein had ties to terror at all (which is a foolish decision) and think the Iraq leg on the war on terror a diversion or a sideshow (which is at least an arguable position, though I don't accept it) one probably isn't going to read the book because a belief may sometimes be shaken when confronted with cold facts.  The important thing to dowith this book is READ it and give the facts a fair hearing, even if you reject them.  If you ever said the phrase &quot;connect the dots&quot; in relation to 9-11, you must read this book.  Your opinion may not be changed (dogma rarely is) but you will at least see what connecting dots amounts to.  It's done here to good advantage.  Is the book true?  How do I know -- I'm not a CIA operative!  But it is IMPORTANT.  Here are the facts.  Accept them or reject them.  In the climate the world is in at present, with terrorists crossing oceans to kill innocents,  even affecting elections in western countries, you're doing yourself a disservice and even being dumb if you don't at least give these dots a fair hearing before writing your reviews to denegrate the book.	2004-06-03
US	52918983	RUIHHBFGJ8S3M	0826415520	830734300	We Will Prevail: President George W. Bush on War, Terrorism and Freedom: Foreword by Peggy Noonan; Introduction by Jay Nordlinger A National Review Book	Books	5	47	68	N	N	Words from a Great President and a Great Man	There are (generally) two ways of viewing the problems raised by 9-11.  One is to maintain that it was an isolated atrocity committed by a renegade, and bury one's head in the sand to the broader issues. The other is to view it in a global perspective and take it as one strike in a long-term battle against global terror that has been raging for decades.<br />With an inauspicious beginning as president -- in a country divided by his predecessors, who pitted one people against the other and who also handed off a failing economy and miserable failures and  displays of U.S. weakness abroad, as well as being hamstrung by his court-challenged election -- George W. Bush, who came to office to unite Americans after one of the most divisive administrations in history, made some progress (passing necessary tax relief, for instance, to help grow the economy) but with the progressive agenda of reform thwarted by a closely elected congress.<br />September 11 helped galvanize the Bush presidency, not only giving him a way to unite Americans  but also showing his own honesty and compassion, and a strength and resolve that amazed even those who voted for him.<br />Though George W. Bush doesn't write all his own speeches alone, he is an integral part of the process.  Not everyone is gifted with a gift of the blarney like his predecessor, who had the ability to adjust his statements (and views) to whatever audience he was addressing, and to say the most blatantly contradictory things without raising eyebrows.  George W. Bush is not a skilled orator, but he is a man of conviction, and his views are distilled through the pens of others who work closely with him.<br />Plainly, through his speeches, George W. Bush emerges as a man of quiet conviction, not easily roused, but determined to defend the people and Constitution of the country that elected him.  Just as plainly, he emerges as a man of enormous vision, able to see the War on Terror plainly as a global phenomenon of which 9-11 was an example, and he is a man who does not want to see people live in fear and intimidation.<br />His words memorialize the dead.  They bring inspiration to a shattered nation.  He identifies the problem and clearly and logically defines the steps that must be taken, of eradicating not only the terrorists, but the totalitarian oppressors, owning their governments by gunpoint, who give them havens.<br />In some cases, such as the U.N. speech, President Bush comes across like Churchill;  in other cases he's as &quot;bully&quot;, or as compassionate, as his great Republican predecessors Teddy Roosevelt and Abraham Lincoln.  <br />The book will be important primary source material in years to come so that, for instance, when he lays out his five-point case against Iraq and goes into the Iraqi leg of the war against the terror masters marching on the bedrock of a dozen years of U.N. resolutions, his own words will prove how vapid the Bush-haters are as they carp on one point and then another, trying to find an argument that will stick, even if they have to watch servicemen of their own country die to prove the president wrong.<br />WE WILL PREVAIL is more than a triumph of the human spirit against adversity;  it a documentary rise of a president who started out with everything against him who grew into one of the giant figures of the twenty-first century, and possibly one of the handful of great presidents of all time.	2003-09-23
US	52918983	R3FPLS777P57XM	0060523999	144116777	How Ronald Reagan Changed My Life	Books	4	11	12	N	N	Ronald Reagan Changed My Life, Too!	The Republican Party was shaped by several important presidents.  Lincoln, who believed not only in freedom, but that the Constitution means something (the &quot;living Constitution folk are the true heirs of the successionists).  Teddy Roosevelt, the great Republican conservationist, who busted trusts and monopolies, clearing the way for one of the great platforms of the Republican Party that is still going strong after a century:  free trade and fair trade.  Coolidge, who said, &quot;Collecting more taxes than is absolutely necessary is legalized robbery&quot; and &quot;The government is best which governs least.&quot;  Then there was Ronald Reagan, who put it all together.  After doing much good work as a union president and California governor, and several unsuccessful tries for the Republican presidential nomination, he arrived on the scene in 1979/80 when the U.S. was in a ditch economically and morally.   Coming seredipidously he (apparently) almost single-handedly turned America around in morale and in its shame at being a superpower and brought the U.S. economy to heights it had never seen before.  And during it all, he communicated what Republicanism is so everyone who would could understand it:  The belief that the Constitution was the bedrock of our law and protector (not giver) of American freedom;  free and fair trade;  economic growth by trusting individuals and corporations with their own money (which gave us a nearly twenty-year economic boom that was unstoppable even with some of the foolish policies of his successors -- remember, Reagan had a degree in economics);  that excessive taxation and regulation stifle not only economies but the individual spirit;  and the government should get out of the way and let people get on with their lives.<br />I was a liberal through the 1980s and never  understood why anyone liked Reagan.  But something happened in my life that made me take all my preconceptions and the baggage I'd accumulated and throw it out.I rebuilt my personal worldview from scratch, vowing to keep those policies I once held and discard those that were untenable.  One by one, the old ideas crashed in the face of two years of reading, consideration, and logic.  What finally decided me was Reagan's final appearance on &quot;Firing Line&quot; in the early 1990s where he explained supply side economics.  I'd never gotten it because I never listened.  Thank you, Mr. President Reagan, from the heart of one of your final converts in your public life.  After considering your words and realizing you were right, it was liberating for me to admit, after years of struggle, &quot;I am a conservative&quot;.<br />While it is fascinating to read insider accounts of the administration of the greatest president of the latter half of the twentieth century (and while this former speechwriter's book is more substantive than the entertaining THE RIGHT MAN by former speechwriter to President G. W. Bush, David Frum), it's still not the necessary answer to the misguided DUTCH, a woefully inept biography.  While HOW RONALD REAGAN CHANGED MY LIFE is well-written (it is by a former speechwriter) and nicely anecdotal, a truly substantive biography of President Reagan, who meant so much to so many Americans, still needs an attempt by a literary Edmond Hillary.  A great man like Ronald Reagan is a cornucopia of books such as this, and it's good to see them multiplying;  but it's still nibbling around the edges of greatness.	2003-08-28
US	52918983	RDL41LWFNY4MI	0060523999	144116777	How Ronald Reagan Changed My Life	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Ronald Reagan Changed My Life, Too!	The Republican Party was shaped by several important presidents.  Lincoln, who believed not only in freedom, but that the Constitution means something (the &quot;living Constitution folk are the true heirs of the successionists).  Teddy Roosevelt, the great Republican conservationist, who busted trusts and monopolies, clearing the way for one of the great platforms of the Republican Party that is still going strong after a century:  free trade and fair trade.  Coolidge, who said, &quot;Collecting more taxes than is absolutely necessary is legalized robbery&quot; and &quot;The government is best which governs least.&quot;  Then there was Ronald Reagan, who put it all together.  After doing much good work as a union president and California governor, and several unsuccessful tries for the Republican presidential nomination, he arrived on the scene in 1979/80 when the U.S. was in a ditch economically and morally.   Coming seredipidously he (apparently) almost single-handedly turned America around in morale and in its shame at being a superpower and brought the U.S. economy to heights it had never seen before.  And during it all, he communicated what Republicanism is so everyone who would could understand it:  The belief that the Constitution was the bedrock of our law and protector (not giver) of American freedom;  free and fair trade;  economic growth by trusting individuals and corporations with their own money (which gave us a nearly twenty-year economic boom that was unstoppable even with some of the foolish policies of his successors -- remember, Reagan had a degree in economics);  that excessive taxation and regulation stifle not only economies but the individual spirit;  and the government should get out of the way and let people get on with their lives.<br />I was a liberal through the 1980s and never  understood why anyone liked Reagan.  But something happened in my life that made me take all my preconceptions and the baggage I'd accumulated and throw it out.I rebuilt my personal worldview from scratch, vowing to keep those policies I once held and discard those that were untenable.  One by one, the old ideas crashed in the face of two years of reading, consideration, and logic.  What finally decided me was Reagan's final appearance on &quot;Firing Line&quot; in the early 1990s where he explained supply side economics.  I'd never gotten it because I never listened.  Thank you, Mr. President Reagan, from the heart of one of your final converts in your public life.  After considering your words and realizing you were right, it was liberating for me to admit, after years of struggle, &quot;I am a conservative&quot;.<br />While it is fascinating to read insider accounts of the administration of the greatest president of the latter half of the twentieth century (and while this former speechwriter's book is more substantive than the entertaining THE RIGHT MAN by former speechwriter to President G. W. Bush, David Frum), it's still not the necessary answer to the misguided DUTCH, a woefully inept biography.  While HOW RONALD REAGAN CHANGED MY LIFE is well-written (it is by a former speechwriter) and nicely anecdotal, a truly substantive biography of President Reagan, who meant so much to so many Americans, still needs an attempt by a literary Edmond Hillary.  A great man like Ronald Reagan is a cornucopia of books such as this, and it's good to see them multiplying;  but it's still nibbling around the edges of greatness.	2003-08-28
US	52918983	R2D2Y83E8XJUFW	0618002014	707625807	A First Rate Tragedy: Robert Falcon Scott and the Race to the South Pole	Books	5	15	20	N	Y	Scott as Tragic Hero	Books on North Polar exploration seem to take a pro-Peary or pro-Cook slant.  Even the National Geographic Society pushes Peary's claim, because it also helped fund his expedition.  So when a book like Bryce's COOK AND PEARY comes out, saying what many of us believed all along, that both men were unscrupulous liars and neither deserve polar priority, it's a breath of fresh air on the subject.  Nevertheless, Bryce also tempers this conclusion by saying both men were skilled in extreme conditions and remarkable real achievements below their belts before they started lying on a big scale and claiming for themselves what they had not achieved.  Bryce tries in a valiant book to put an end to the nonsense that if Cook failed, Peary won, and vice-versa.<br />Books on South Polar exploration must be different. Amundsen reached the pole.  It's indisputable.  Scott died bringing back the proof that he didn't get priority.  Because he reached the pole and -- to the anti-Scotteans, more importantly -- he got back.  However, Scott's expedition was not a failure.  It was, first and foremost, a scientific expedition;  Scott wanted polar priority and probably deserved it (Amundsen wanted the north, denied him by the charlatans Cook and Peary, so he jumped Scott's claim).  <br />Scott's reputation, unlike Amundsen's, has undergone a roller coaster ride for almost a century.  First he was made a hero.  Then the iconoclasts set in.  Roland Huntford's book on Scott and Amundsen was the Big Nail for the anti-Scott forces. To them, Huntford's book is gospel, and to question it is to question reality.<br />But Huntford, a fine biographer of polar explorers (Nansen, Shackleton), was distintly and unapologetically anti-Scott.  And while Scott made errors (the biggest being his modern-minded \\"diversity\\" in taking seaman Evans along), his expedition was meticulously planned and employed the latest scientific and techonological advances.  Solomon's COLDEST MARCH lays some Scott criticism aside(and since Solomon is a scientist who has actually worked in Antarctica her credentials should carry more weight with the anti-Scotteans than it does).  Scott and Amundsen were products of their class and their era, but both also had been on polar adventures before and both men knew what they were up against.  Scott is often, these days, portrayed by his detractors (euphemism) as mercurial and indecisive and, in some cases (as in the dramatization of Huntford's book) cruel.<br />In fact, Scott's polar expedition was a tragedy, in the classic sense as well as the modern.  Many events beyond his control led to his death, but decisions he made did go woefully wrong.  In any event, it seems, in light of more recent evidence than Huntford's, the whole party would have made it back in most years, but conditions were different on that part of the Antarctic than had been scientifically observed previously.  Scott made some bad decisions that led to the tragedy, but it also seems he had a run of bad luck, while Amundsen (and this is not a detraction of him to say so) had a run of good luck.  It's ironic that Amundsen left a letter for Scott to take back (and he did) in case Amundsen died, but it proves Amundsen knew that, even with his methods, which seem the \\"right\\" ones because he lived, he ran the risk of death in those extreme conditions.<br />In A FIRST RATE TRAGEDY Preston presents her case clearly and with fairness, and without the judgmentalism that mars Huntford's well-researched and iconoclastic study.<br />To lighten up some on Scott, folks, does not demean Amundsen's achievements.  It's not the silly either/or with the partisans for Cook or Peary.  Both Amundsen and Scott could have died (probably should have died) and both might well have made it back alive.  There seems to be, in the anti-Scotteans, the fear that if someone treats Scott with a modicum of non-judgmentalism and doesn't bludgeon Scott as a downright fool, it somehow makes denigrates Amundsen.  Nonsense.  Both men were brave, courageous and intrepid leaders.  Their men deserve every bit of praise as being the brave men they were.  Scott's expedition was more interested in the scientific end and Amundsen's willy-nilly chase for hte pole was an opportunistis to get the fame to do researches in the north, but the achievements of both neither man, unlike Cook and Peary, need to be given proper appreciation without the need to bludgeon the other.  <br />Preston's A FIRST RATE TRAGEDY is a study of Scott whose time has come.	2003-01-21
US	52918983	R3A24IQR54RQW	0965922820	64356132	The Rapture Trap: A Catholic Response to End Times Fever	Books	4	11	20	N	Y	A Necessary Book	While not the best answer it could be to believers in \\"the Rapture\\", it's a necessary response.  I was brought up in a mainline Protestant southern USA church and never heard of \\"The Rapture\\" until I peeked into Hal Lindsey and his ilk.  However, I did not accept Christ until I was 28 and at that time set out to learn all I could about the faith, discarding foolish and secular preconceptions (about which I was full, having gone through grad school and mixing with the snotty artsy crowd for years).  Though eschatology is extremely important, I was unable to find anything about \\"The Rapture\\" until very recent history, and I came to believe it was a heresy, fostered by a very unchristian fear of death, and especially of the Tribulation.  History is usually a good guide -- but sometimes off, since for nearly all of Christianity, since the Jewish people were dispersed, it was impossible to believe in the formation of a state of Israel so the Church of all ages assumed it was a \\"New Israel\\".  Now we know that's popycock and a lot of damage was done because of it.  So just because Luther, Calvin, or even earlier Catholic teachers like Aquinas and Augustine didn't believe Israel would ever be put back together (had they not read Ezekiel?) doesn't mean it was impossible -- obviously!  Mr. Thigpen also makes one redundant mistake:  first of all, he seems to imply that Fundamentalists believe in \\"the Rapture\\".  Well, speaking as a Fundamentalist, I can say that not all do!  It's always an error to label people.  Somehow, \\"Fundamentalist\\" came to mean, not people who believe in the fundamentals of the faith and what the Bible says (I went to grad school in history so knew something about historical method, and I believe the Bible) but instead misinterpret \\"fundamentalist\\" to mean people who believe what they're told!  Mr. Thigpen should have been a lot more careful and not tossed around the term so carelessly!  But that said, it's still a necessary book for anyone who wants tobelieve there will be such a thing as a Rapture.	2002-11-18
US	52918983	R31QZOB4UZM9GY	0062509276	778021673	The Secrets of the Tarot: Origins, History, and Symbolism	Books	1	28	77	N	N	Misleading	Playing cards were introduced to Europe from the Moslem world in the fourteenth century (1300s).  In the fifteenth century (1400s) the first Tarot set was introduced in northern Italy.  Although we don't know who produced the first set, it seemed to be to cash in on the popularity of conventional playing cards.  Though we're not sure how the game of Tarot was played speculation is that it was rather like Bridge, though certainly some may have played it like Old Maid.  The Tarot symbolism is mostly early Renaissance and late medieval Christian (since we're not sure exactly who made the first set in the 1400s, we cannot utterly rule out some Kabblistic influence, though viewing them strictly through contemporary Christian symbolism there's nothing intrinsically unlikely that at the time of their invention they reflected only northern Italian Christian cultural influences).  There are recorded instances of pre-Reformation Churchmen playing the game of Tarot, and the cards never were proscribed;  after the Reformation, a version of the game of Tarot became popular with newly minted Protestants who found some of the church imagery buffoonish (for instance, the rather silly myth of \\"Pope Joan\\" was seen in the Popess simply because demeaned the Catholic Church).<br />About three hundred years after their invention is the first recorded mention of Tarot in divination.  This is not surprizing.  Normal playing cards always were used for divination.  So have a great many other things, such as entrails.  If one is a prophet, the medium through which one's readings come probably does not matter, and Tarot cards are as good as anything (Old Maid cards may be next). Many Tarot readers say the history of the cards is unimportant.  If all they're going to do is cook up some divination, that's true.  They probably don't have what it takes to get some fresh entrails.<br />The known history of the Tarot is given in an outline in this review, and where the author takes another line sheregurgitates a lot of misinformed claptrap.  In her first paragraph she conveys enough misunderstandings to write a books about.  She says Tarot cards were the ancestors of modern playing cards.  That's untrue.  She says the modern deck is a shortened version of the Tarot.  This is provably incorrect.  She says the Joker is a remnant of the Tarot.  In fact, the joker was added to the card deck in the nineteenth century, so if there is any (enuous) connection with the Tarot it's demonstrably not a retention.  The joker was stuck on as an afterthought, and probably has no Tarot connection.  She maintains the cards were censored by the Church and that is patent nonsense.  She says Tarot cards were banned in various cities in 1376, 1381 and 1397;  this is impossible since Tarot cards were not invented until the 1400s.<br />This book is  fraught with historical accuracies, and not just on the Tarot.  She talks of the \\"Church\\" as if was an actual monolithic authoritarian entity rather than a modern convenience.  She talks about the \\"Crusades\\" as if they were a barbarian invasion of more culturally advanced Arab lands, when actually the Crusades were defensive wars for Christianity:  Christians, after Constantine accepted Christianity, were the only people in history who got possession of the Holy Land without conquest or invasion.  Jerusalem was razed, rebuilt and renamed and the old name forgotten until Christians found themselves no longer a persecuted sect and gave the new city its old name.  Then the Seljuk Turks, who were closer to barbarians than the Christians from Alexandria to Antioch, invaded, slaughtered, and took the holy land.  What sparked the crusades was the desecration and burning of the church of the Holy Sepulcre, the holiest place in the world to the Church (think of a Jew today blowing up the Dome of the Rock and the response he would get).  Further blowing hte illusion of the \\"medieval church\\" was the very fact that the Crusades split the Church morethan anything between the Orthodox split and the Reformation.  This is just in the first two or three pages.<br />It would be nice to find a book that detailed the evolution of the Tarot from a fifteenth century card game to a popular fortune-telling device.  The modicum of legitimate historical research pursued by this author for this book has not given her enough sound historical grounding to write one sentence in the first few pages without an inaccuracy, a misrepresentation, or a fabrication.  The problem probably lies partly in her bigotry,  partly in her narrow-minded pursuit of sources, and mainly in the use of less than valid historical sources.  If she sets out to set out \\"origins, history and symbolism\\" and one third of that is pure rot, how far can the reader trust her with the rest?	2002-10-10
US	52918983	R2QD0CRQFN4B2K	0743410513	605962018	The Unburied	Books	2	5	9	N	N	What a Waste	I wanted to like this book.  I really tried to.  I liked its atmosphere -- it was almost like M.R. James, or the ghost stories of Benson or Arthur Conan Doyle.  It also had something going for it that I admired:  it had no graphic sex scenes, no gratuitous bad language.  It was written as a good Edwardian storyteller might, and it was extremely well written, so far as the actual prose.  Where Palliser goes wrong is that he tries to juggle stories set in three periods (actually, four, but the meat of the book has three):  the immediate, Victorian story;  a tale of Alfred the Great, conncted with a manuscript the hero is searching for;  and a mystery set in the time of the English civil war.  All fascinating periods.  Unfortunately, the stories are integrated by clumily and at length through interminable dialogue scenes.  And the three, in the end, simply aren't well integrated (especially the English civil war theme).  Furthermore, Palliser goes off on tangents.  For instance, there's a pointless discussion early on between two characters on Christianity, and I suppose the hero's point of view is Palliser's (though I don't know him and don't know this to be a fact).  Like most non-Christians when presenting a fictional argument between a Christian and a non-Christian, the Christian starts of petulant and ends up hypocritical;  and he never argues from orthodoxy, and seems to have the weakest grasp on what he believes (which may be true of most American Christians, but it also helps the author undermine that faith without actually learning anything about it that might give him positive responses).  There's little action, which is a shame, because the book has a great setting.  He has good characters, a good setting, three good stories ideas in which to run parallel themes, and a good handle on the English language . . . and yet it never gels.  Nor does it seem particularly creepy.  A minor caveat:  the murder takes too long to happen, and, as a spoiler, the murderersare never well integrated in the plot, either.  Now, one of my favorite writers, the extremely atmospheric John Dickson Carr, sometimes took his time about having the actual murder, but he did it with pinache, and he never introduced characters from the outside to do it.  Overall, this book never quite ends up as the sum of its parts.	2002-05-28
US	52918983	R2KWRX8UEN1VS3	0553260944	263261251	The Chancellor Manuscript: A Novel	Books	1	2	13	N	N	Poor Ludlum	Robert Ludlum was a good thriller writer. This book has a good opening, a series of stops and starts where you keep guessing when the plot will begin, finds its legs, then runs out of steam and dissolves into little more than a hatchet job on J. Edgar Hoover.  If you think Hoover was the vilest man in the twentieth Century and Stalin, Hitler, Pol Pot, Castro and Ho Chi Minh stand in his shadow, you'll like this book.  <br />Hoover's a popular person to hate nowadays.  If Ludlum had been more of an artist, he might've used the opportunity to tell Hoover's story as a tragedy -- an idealistic young man who loves his country takes over an extremely troubled bureau and singlehandedly fashions it into an efficient organization that tracks down and puts behind bars one infamous character after another;  but rather than leave when it was his time, he overstayed his welcome and no one wanted to remove him, until his tragic flaws make him hated and feared more than respected.  But Ludlum has no time for that stuff.  <br />If he stuck to his plot, he might still have gotten away with it.  But he preferred to admire his own facility at character assassination at the expense of what promised to be a ripping book.  It makes you wish you'd never strayed from Tom Clancy.<br />Stick to Ludlum's Jason Bourne books.  They're snappier and more mature.  This book, as a cartoon character once said, \\"Makes like a Hoover.\\"	2002-03-20
US	52918983	R2GDSWDPZ3KYIJ	0375406239	679283968	The Popes Against the Jews: The Vatican's Role in the Rise of Modern Anti-Semitism	Books	1	38	85	N	N	Got Popes?	It's been said that anti-Catolicism is the last vestage of anti-Semitism liberals can engage in.  That notion rings true here.  It's often forgotten that Christianity is really Messianic Judaism taken to extremes.  Often, it's been forgotten by Christians, who have too often despised Jews, while claiming to worship one.  The history of Judaism and Christianity has too often been one of friction, and on both sides (though in most but by no means all cases, \\"Christendom\\" has had the upper hand).<br />This book is an alleged attempt to trace much of the anti-Semitism back to the modern papacy, but it strays far from that thesis.  Popes peek in occasionally, but the author lumps in every extremity of anti-Semitism, whether Catholic or not, and lays it at the feet of the papacy.  One wonders how wide ranging his research could be, since in many cases he ignores or is ignorant of papal encyclicals against some of the very anti-Semitic things he cites!  The author has that extremity of cut-and-paste selectivity of sources that suggests he looked for whatever might support his thesis, which is a poor way of doing history, but which is altogether too common these days when a quest for truth is abandoned to post-modern relativism.<br />The author would've done better to write a history of modern anti-Semitism (which would've been frighteningly close to the rise of post-modern anti-Catholic and anti-Christian attitudes).  As it is, anyone wanting to know all about how the modern papacy addressed anti-Semitism must look elsewhere, for the author doesn't delve too deep into that, but too often keeps in a paranoiac need to trace every slur a gentile ever made against the Jewish people to Catholicism (and by association, the papacy).<br />A good book could be written on the thesis of the modern papacy and how it addressed (and perhaps in some cases subtley encouraged) modern anti-Semitism, but this isn't it.  Perhaps someone one day will approach the subject with a mind open to what the sources tell him, and will produce such a book of the papacy, warts and all.  But in his quest for warts, he goes so far afield that one wonders how one can justify putting \\"Popes\\" in the title.	2002-02-26
US	52918983	R3OWRV91W0TJWW	0679456503	98596625	The Making of Robert E. Lee	Books	1	30	48	N	N	Try Emory Thomas	A story Emory Thomas relates in his recent bio of General Lee shows the general, now a private citizen, in church after the war.  At time to partake of the Eucharist, a black man comes into the church and kneels at the altar to take the Lord's Supper at the all-white church.  No one knows what to do and the air is full of tension.  The first person to rise, go to the altar, and kneel by the man to eat the Body of the Lord is Robert E. Lee.<br />Robert E. Lee was notable for freeing slaves left to him and his wife.  His first impulse at the beginning of the war was to serve in the U.S. army -- in fact, Lincoln's administration offered him post as commander in chief of the U.S. forces.  Does that mean he believed in equality of the races, as we do today?  Of course not, it implies nothing of the kind.<br />This is the basic flaw with Mr. Fellman's book.  Like most p.c. revisionists, he seems to demand that all the light of his subject be reflected through the prism of modern sensibilities.  Most _modern_ people couldn't abide such scrutiny.  The problem of p.c. revisionism of all kinds is that p.c. people see only one point of view and do not recognize any other as valid, and anyone who disagrees with them in a jot or tittle is &quot;intolerant&quot; (tolerance defined as being what they believe) and they destroy posthumously anyone in a past culture who does not reach their exalted level of &quot;tolerance&quot;, despite the fact that they haven't had the advantages of a modern educative process where the mind is carefully groomed.<br />Lee was a model citizen for his time (perhaps for any time).  Loyal to his family and friends.  Second in his class at West Point, and he got through with no demerits.  He had the benefit of name; but his father was poor, and died from injuries received protecting the free speech rights of a printer who opposed the War of 1812, and Lee inherited little from his father except his surname, a love of country and Constitution and an admiration of his father's dear friend George Washington (Lee even married into the family of Washington's step-son).<br />Every aspect of Lee has recently come under attack.  His generalship has had many books and articles assailing it.  Now the man's character is dismantled, piece by piece, by an author who seems to have no sympathy for his subject at the start.<br />One of the most abhorrent features of modern biographers is their need to &quot;psychoanalyze&quot; their subjects in retrospect.  He puts Lee on the couch, so to speak, but whereas in psychoanalysis the doctor and patient exchange questions and answers, the biographer supplies both, so naturally whatever his research gives him dovetails with his presuppositions.<br />I won't go so far as to say this is a pure hatchet-job, though I wouldn't be surprized if it was.  I'll assume the author made a genuine attempt to understand his subject and failed.<br />Not a recommended biography of the general who did more to knit the two factions of this country into a whole than any man after the war.  If you're wary of Douglas Southall Freeman and Clifford Dowdy, both of whom spent their lives studying the man, using the same sources as Mr. Fellman, then I would heartily recommend Emory Thomas'_ROBERT E. LEE:  A BIOGRAPHY_.  Prof. Thomas taught at UGA when I was a grad student there;  he's a fair man and his book is a BALANCED treatment of his subject.  It's well worth the money.<br />However, if you already are predisposed to think that anyone who joined the Confederacy, for whatever reason, is inherently evil and don't want to read books that challenge your preconceptions, you'll enjoy this book immensely.ation of his father's dear friend George Washington (Lee even married into the family of Washington's step-son).<br />Every aspect of Lee has recently come under attack.  His generalship has had many books and articles assailing it.  Now the man's character is dismantled, piece by piece, by an author who seems to have no sympathy for his subject at the start.<br />One of the most abhorrent features of modern biographers is their need to &quot;psychoanalyze&quot; their subjects in retrospect.  He puts Lee on the couch, so to speak, but whereas in psychoanalysis the doctor and patient exchange questions and answers, the biographer supplies both, so naturally whatever his research gives him dovetails with his presuppositions.<br />I won't go so far as to say this is a pure hatchet-job, though I wouldn't be surprized if it was.  I'll assume the author made a genuine attempt to understand his subject and failed.  <br />Not a recommended biography of the general who did more to knit the two factions of this country into a whole than any man after the war.  If you're wary of Douglas Southall Freeman and Clifford Dowdy, both of whom spent their lives studying the man, using the same sources as Mr. Fellman, then I would heartily recommend Emory Thomas'_ROBERT E. LEE:  A BIOGRAPHY_.  Prof. Thomas taught at UGA when I was a grad student there;  he's a fair man and his book is a BALANCED treatment of his subject.  It's well worth the money.<br />However, if you already are predisposed to think that anyone who joined the Confederacy, for whatever reason, is inherently evil and don't want to read books that challenge your preconceptions, you'll enjoy this book immensely.	2001-11-07
US	52918983	RLBPVR2D4LX3T	0847694291	927836702	A Concise History of the Crusades (Critical Issues History)	Books	5	24	31	N	Y	The Truth -- After 800 Years	The Crusades remain the most misunderstood and misconstrued movement in human history.  The Holy Land has been fought over since time out of mind, and has been held variously by Moslems, Christians, Jews, Romans, Persians, Babylonians, Canaanites, and probably people before that whom the Canaanites killed.  Yet the Christians are the only people who held the land without taking it by conquest.  Roman pagans ran out Second Temple Judaism and destroyed Jerusalem, then rebuilding a city with another name in that spot.  Christians of all other lands used the good Roman roads to get there by pilgrimage and many stayed.  When the Roman Empire became Christian, the Christians held the Holy Land suddenly without a blow struck.  And only because of Christian involvement did Jerusalem receive back its time honored name.  However, during the period when Jerusalem was in &quot;Christian&quot; hands (there never has been a &quot;Christian&quot; people or nation, but while Christian people had governance in the Holy Land), Seljuk Turks came in and took the land and Jerusalem by conquest.  Apparently they put many people to the sword and were pretty violent at first, but settled down, despite the fact that Christians and Jews had to wear individually identifiable clothing, and were distinctly second-class citizens.  Then one of the new governors burned down the Church of the Holy Sepulchre, the holiest place in Christendom.  This raised the ire of Christians in Europe even more than the Arab conquest.  No immediate movement was organized, for Europe was still recovering from the end of the Viking age.  But as word came back not only of the laws against Christians (esp. against evangelism, which has been the whole purpose of the Church since Pentecost, when it started), but atrocities -- some real, some vividly imagined -- a largescale public movement began to free the Holy Land from the Moslem conquerors.<br />The Church, unlike the public at large, was as divided over the Crusades as anything in its history:  part of it thought the whole thing was foolishness and should not be prosecuted;  part of it thought a good thing to liberate the Holy Land;  and part of it, seeing knights were going to fight anyway, should go and fight Moslems rather than other Christians.<br />In any case, after that point many waves of Crusaders went to the Holy Land, with varying degrees of success.  At one time, the Christians had foothold enough to have a king in Jerusalem, and might've stayed but for the brilliant Saladin.  The greatest was the Third Crusade;  but he homesickness of many of the leaders, and their almost Viet Nam esque half-hearted prosecution of the Crusade, for all practical purposes, ended the Christian hope of realizing a liberation of the Holy Land.<br />Throughout history, of course, many societies have tried to shape the Crusades to reflect their own propaganda, most especially the Arab world, which would have us believe that the Crusades were not, as Madden proves with exquisite scholarship, a defensive war;  and the Victorians, who lived in a society where again, as during the Crusades, the church and culture were so aligned that the Victorian facade of &quot;morality&quot; unfortunately rubbed off on the Church.  In the 20th century, many people who rebelled against &quot;the Church&quot; were really rebelling against Victorianism, and were too ignorant themselves on what the Church actually stood for to tell the two apart.  By the modern age of multiculturalism (which is really the reverse of which Victorian empirealism is the obverse), the Church in its 2000 years could do no right in the eyes of the self-proclaimed intelligensia, and the Crusades were universally condemned.  <br />Madden makes a very good attempt to put the Crusades in their PROPER context, and it's good to see a scholarly book that tries to get the truth through the constant noise of modern propaganda.  I wish Madden would write a series as widespread as Runciman's, for, as good as Runciman's books are, they are woefully outdated and need replacing with someone more open minded.	2001-11-05
US	52918983	R2Q75CX0SRJAJJ	0425175472	953841070	Cat among the Pigeons: A Hercule Poirot Novel (Hercule Poirot Mysteries)	Books	3	20	28	N	N	Biting off more than she could chew	Agatha Christie, it is not often recognized, was a very good writer.  Although her books never achieved the skin-tingling creepiness of John Dickson Carr, the best of the &quot;Golden Age&quot; mystery writers, and though Carr's books are perhaps more re-readable, the writing in Christie's best books (the 30s, 40s) was often as good as any other writer of the period.<br />She was also as good at writing cloak and dagger books as well as convention detective mysteries, though these books are not generally as well known.<br />&quot;Cat Among the Pigeons&quot; should be one of her cloak and dagger books.  It veers into John Buchan territory with revolutions in foreign coutries and smuggled jewels.  It is not, on the face of it, a Poirot novel.  When he makes his appearance near the last third of the book, he is a welcome addition to a plot that's beginning to collapse under its own weight.  Instead of being a novel of espionage or a novel of detection, it tries to be both.  The result is a novel with three murders, but all of them coming late in the narrative and therefore bunched together.  Because the set-up is so long, Poirot is forced to make some quantum leaps beyond his normal logic, that seem more like inspired guesses than deduction.  One wonders why he was necessary at all.<br />The book is set at a girl's school and there are many extraneous characters.  Christie helps us with her usual page of character descriptions at the start, but many of the names remain little more than names.<br />Christie was a good writer.  She normally got to the point and didn't string plot threads together until her books got oppressive.  And the two genres she tried to mix in this book could have been combined in a longer, more complex novel.  An earlier introduction to Poirot might also have helped.  He is anticipated, but, curiously, is never mentioned prior to his introduction and comes out of the blue.<br />It looks almost like two books that have run together.  Christie normally didn't waste more than one good plot on a book, but here she has the jewel story, which would've made a crackerjack espionage novel along the lines of _The Secret of Chimneys_;  and the murder mystery, in the last half, that would've made a fine, typical Poirot novel.  A young detective who goes undercover in the book would've made a fine solver of the jewel story.<br />Too, many of the elements of this novel seem borrowed.  The young detective's superior comes off as a lethargic version of Carr's H.M., for instance.<br />However, one warning:  there is an element of the jewel plot that you will guess almost immediately, and wonder why Christie was so obvious with it.  Further reading shows that to become more complex, and the reason she wants us to guess it early seems to be so she can take a sudden left-turn with it.  But the element itself is not, it turns out, very important to the plot and she can allow us a few pages to think we're clever.<br />If you are a long-time Christie fan and want to read all her books, _Cat Among the Pigeons_ is a must;  if you're just starting Christie, you might want to read a dozen or so others before getting to this one.	2001-09-11
US	52918983	R1NV0DUFMCSBQ5	1563524872	199819751	The Terrible Truth About Liberals	Books	5	19	34	N	N	Not for Conservatives	I am not a fan of Mr. Boortz.  I listen very rarely, and he usually offends my sense of etiquette and courtesy when I do.  Nevertheless, as one who spent more than a decade as a liberal and moving amongst them before becoming a conservative after an agonizing 18 months of soul-searching, I must admit Mr. Boortz is on to something in this book.<br />Liberals (certainly the ones I knew, including myself) consider themselves a superior form of homo sapiens, even though their record is nearly blank.  Progressives have done much in the world, especially in the last 40 years.  But the &quot;progressives&quot;, now, are, ironically enough, labelled &quot;conservatives&quot;.  The right is where the great new ideas to advance society have come since the 1980s, and liberals, in their defense of liberal establishment status quo, have been rigid reactionaries, their &quot;progressiveness&quot; being merely a genius for finding new ways to redistribute taxpayers' money and undermine the free-market economy.  <br />In fact, liberals are driven mostly by hate.  Some, like me, realize that what they really hate is themselves, and they make adjustments where they pull their weight in society -- but the only way a liberal can be made to pull his weight is for him to become a conservative.<br />I may sound harsh (or, if you're not a liberal and therefore have a sense of humor, tongue-in-cheek), but it's true enough.  But there's no reason for anyone not a liberal to read this book.  It's not a great book, but Mr. Boortz, who has been on all sides of the political spectrum except the far left (and I've been on the extremes of either end, so I have a little more insight through experience), is able to glean some very good points by the use of logic and perception of the liberal political spectrum.  And therefore his book, and other similar titles, would be useful for liberals to read.  Since they are their own worst enemy and problem, it would be good for liberals to read what Mr. Boortz says about them, whether he's (as he often is) right on, or merely hits a glancing blow.  It may cause liberals to think and be introspective about their inner failings.<br />Liberals too often are like religious fundamentalists:  when the first enthusiasm of conversion starts to wane, they try to force themselves to be &quot;ultra-religious&quot; and legalistic, rather than trying to advance to a new phase of their walk with God.  Liberals usually are liberals to fill a void or lack in themselves, and pursue legalistic &quot;fundamentalist politics&quot;.  If Mr. Boortz can at least begin the intellectual process of introspection on liberals, which may be painful (it was for me;  it was like self-surgery, without anaesthetic), then his book will do some good.  But if it becomes merely a way for conservatives and libertarians to get a chuckle out of the foibles of the illogical ultra-left, then who needs it?<br />I would urge liberals to purchase this title or check it out from the library or steal it or force a taxpayer to buy you one at gunpoint.  Even though Mr. Boortz's prose may occasionally be heavy-handed, and he isn't always correct, it's a good starting point for liberals who genuinely are interested in hearing out opposing views (admittedly a small number);  from then the liberal can move on through more intellectual voices, like David Horowitz, Thomas Sowell, William Bennett, Harry Stein, etc.	2001-09-07
US	52918983	RVQAM6DTJ2A7L	0195148274	374461801	Supreme Injustice: How the High Court Hijacked Election 2000	Books	1	19	59	N	N	For Partisans	The library where I work received _Supreme Injustice_ on an approval plan, and I perused it there rather than putting a penny in Dershowitz's till.  Many of us were amazed -- even aghast -- that it was published by Oxford.<br />Frankly, from the start one wonders how reasoned a book can be that is on the shelves six months from the event it documents.  Mr. Dershowitz, an unabashed supporter of Vice President Gore, doesn't seem to have put too much time in agonizing over his conclusions.<br />The election of 2000 was a referendum of the Clinton Administration, which for eight years deliberately, as a matter of policy, divided America in to demographics and pitted little groups against each other.<br />Al Gore (whom I supported for president in 1988, by the way, to show my bona fides) should have been president . . . in 1998.  Mr. Gore should have sent subtle cues to Democratic senate pals to let Impeachment proceed, at which time he would've taken office and no Republican candidate could have challenged him.  We know now Mr. Gore was secretly mortified by Clinton and disliked him.  By not taking a stand for justice when it was time, Mr. Gore lumbered into his presidential campaign burdened by all the Clinton baggage, paying the price Clinton should have paid.  Florida was even irrelevant.  If Mr. Gore had carried his own state of Tennessee, he wouldn't have needed Florida.<br />That said, we proceed with some of the problems with Mr. Dershowitz's reasoning.  He seems to think the Supreme Court gave President Bush the election.  It didn't.   The Constitution gave the election to Bush, based on the votes of the American people state-by-state.  Though it's often come under fire, the Electoral College is vital, and the election of 2000 proves why:  Although Mr. Gore may or may not have had more votes (when states have overwhelming majorities they stop counting, so a  hundred thousand absentee votes in California, say, that weren't counted, but which wouldn't have made any difference in which camp the state as a whole fell, might well have given Mr. Bush the popular vote), his votes were heavily in urban areas.  If he had been given the presidency by a vote of, say, the Supreme Court of Florida (and we're coming to them), very tiny regions of the country would be dictating to the rest.  This is what the Electoral College was set up to avoid.  Therefore, states like West Virginia and Idaho, whose electoral votes generally aren't that important, became as important as the votes of New York or Michigan or Illinois or California.  And that's only right.  As much as urbane city folks don't like it, the people who live in rural, southern, and western areas should have equal say.<br />The election was very close, with both candidates trying an electoral strategy, with Mr. Gore carrying far fewer, but more industrial (ironically) and densely-populated, states.  Mr. Bush's electoral strategy was to win everything else.<br />Though a half-dozen, maybe more, states had vote tallies close enough for either candidate to ask for a recount beyond the automatic recounts many of them did, Florida became a focus for the reason that it was called early on election night for Gore, BEFORE THE POLLS CLOSED.  Votes from Democratic strongholds in the state looked favorable for Gore at first, but AS THE POLLS CLOSED in more western Republican areas of the state, the tide turned to Bush.<br />At this point it is necessary to point out that once he took the lead, George W. Bush never lost the lead.  He didn't relose it that night or the next morning;  and through the automatic recount, the requested recounts, the sectional re-re-re-counts, despite the peculiar circumstances under which Democratic areas threw out bundles of ballots from active military personnel (so much for the foolish &quot;count every vote&quot; mantra, which meant &quot;count every ballot&quot;, even if the ballot had been spoiled and replaced, giving some Democrats the chance to vote twice!), and even as the rules for recounts changed during the process in these Democratic districts, Mr. Bush never lost the lead.  And President Bush has never lost it despite the myriad recounts done by news organizations, even the NEW YORK TIMES, which has declined into almost a house organ of the Democratic Party.<br />Mr. Bush brought suit to stop the recounts after about three, on the basis that Mr. Gore, requesting recounts in smaller and smaller areas, was violating equal rights of the rest of the state -- which he was -- and because the various standards for recounting in these Democratic strongholds, by Democratic officials, changed arbitrarily from day to day.<br />Mr. Dershowitz gives another slant on this, but he's entitled to his opinion so far.  Here is where he makes the biggest boner in the book.  Instead of looking at the unConstitutionality of the U.S. Supreme Court, he should have applied his great legal mind to untangling the true place where the SUPREME INJUSTICE lay, the Supreme Court of Florida.<br />Before either candidate had requested cert., before their input was necessary, the Florida Supreme Court snatched up the case for review and rendered a hasty decision for Mr. Gore.  At that point, Mr. Bush's ONLY recourse was the United States Supreme Court, which, because of the peculiar circumstances, expedited the case.  It was the illegality of the Florida Supreme Court's actions that forced the show-down, and their actions should come under the sort of intense scrutiny Mr. Dershowitz can give.<br />As it was, the U.S. Supreme Court did not really stop the recounts as Mr. Bush requested;  but finding the Mr. Gore violated the civil rights of most of the counties in Florida by increasingly specializing in areas where polling officials favorable to him could continue to trawl for anything that looked like a Gore vote, and declaring that the a recount system should be standardized by the same polling officials at least!, there simply was not time BEFORE THE DEADLINE IMPOSED BY THE FLORIDA CONSTITUTION, to do a third or fourth (whichever it was) statewide recount.  At that point, Mr. Gore conceded.<br />Although voting irregularites were brought forward in many areas, especially in Illinois, home of Mr. Gore's campaign manager, Florida became the battleground for a state where 90 million people voted in a vote that was a draw and had to be decided Constitutionally.  With most elections, the Electoral College is a peculiar institution, since most winning presidents win the popular vote.  The 1980 race between Carter and Reagan had a very close popular vote, but Reagan won state by state overwhelmingly.  In 1992, Bill Clinton won with only 42 percent of the popular vote, since normally Republican states were split over the Perot factor.  Yet in all races, candidates have a strategy, not for winning the popular vote, but the electoral college.  This was the same with Mr. Gore (in fact, the same liberal pundits who criticized the Electoral College after the election, and after the Gore camp released a damaging story about Bush's youth in a dirty trick two three days before the election, were supporting the Constitution and the Electoral College the week before the election, when it looked like Bush would receive the popular vote and Mr. Gore the Electoral College.  I'm sure a Lexis search would come up with a suitable quote by Mr. Dershowitz, if someone wants to do one.<br />To make a long story (and long-winded review) short, SUPREME INJUSTICE should have focussed on the Florida Supreme Court, which made the Florida election a national issue.  Although if one wants all sides of the Florida election and aftermath, and there are many quickie books like this one already out on both sides, this book should be read;  one should keep in mind while reading that, if the court decision had been for Mr. Gore, and his segregational recounts had produced one more vote than Mr. Bush by the Democratic poll works, the recountswould have stopped dead, Gore would have declared victory, and Mr. Dershowitz would not have written a book about how corrupt the court was, because it would've agreed with him.  <br />Don't take the book seriously.	2001-08-01
US	52918983	RJ3NB2FFXJ3Y2	0451523377	821153252	Dracula (Signet Classics)	Books	5	63	64	N	Y	Misunderstood Classic	One of the scariest books in history, DRACULA is nevertheless misunderstood.  Our civilization is removed from the Victorian era.  We think of it as somehow distant and quaint, and ourselves as modern.  But when Bram Stoker published DRACULA in 1897, the Victorian era _was_ modern.  Stoker meant to make the book more frightening than most books by bringing an ancient horror into a modern, anti-superstitious world.  He uses typewriters and phonograph disks the way a modern writer would refer to the internet and e-mail.  DRACULA's first readers might've looked out of their town or country houses and expected to see Dracula's gaunt figure emerging through the fog.<br />He tells the story through a series of diaries, letters, clippings.  Normally this is an unweildy method of storytelling, but in this case it is most effective.<br />The novel is divided into three broad sections.  In the first, young Jonathan Harker and Dracula have the stage almost alone.  Though Harker's diary we learn details of his journey through eastern Europe to meet a Count who wants to travel to England, and Harker carries him certain important papers.  Count Dracula's character comes across very strong and well-defined, and grows ever menacing as Harker slowly learns he is not going to be allowed back to England, but will become food for Dracula's vampiric harem.<br />The second part of the book, set in England, deals with Mina Murray, who is going to marry Jonathan;  Mina's friend Lucy;  three men who are in love with Lucy;  and a good-hearted but mysterious Ductch doctor, Abraham van Helsing.  The bulk of this part deals with Lucy's mysterious disease, her decline to death, and her transformation into a vampire that her suitors must destroy out of love.  Dracula appears only fleetingly through the book, but the reader knows what happens, and suspects the cause of Lucy's decline.<br />In the last part, Jonathan, Mina, and Lucy's three lovers band with Dr. von Helsing in a pact to destroy Dracula before he can spread his contagion throughout England;  and meanwhile, Dracula wreaks his vengeance on them for taking Lucy from him.<br />Stoker uses many ways of approaching his subject.  Occasionally the horror is direct;  but once it is established, he makes it subtle, working behind the scenes, in a way that may be even more frightening.  Though he also uses different voices, his prose is invariably fine.  And as each character has to overcome his aversion to ancient superstition and face Dracula with a mind open to the fact that there's more in the world than science and technology and late-Victorian materialism can contain, the book becomes eerily meaningful for the twenty-first century.<br />Modern purveyors of vampiric fiction dispense with the blatant Christian symbolism used to fight Dracula's ilk, such as a crucifix or sanctified host, or prayer.  They also turn the evil of Dracula topsy-turvey and somehow invent sympathy for soulless monsters who view living humans as food.  Stoker doesn't hesitate to show Dracula as an evil, totalitarian horror;  as a contagion that must be eradicated;  as an enslaver of women, like Lucy, and men, like poor Renfield.  And Stoker has reason enough to realized that only Supernatural agencies could fight the supernatural.  The saving Blood of Christ on the Cross, blood of which a soulless terror like Dracula cannot drink, is the most effective symbol for fighting and defeating this brand of evil.  It was part of the novel's consistency that as the characters have to come to grips with the reality of ancient evil, they must also return to the symbols of good that they also have rejected in a narrow-minded embracing of the modern.<br />Dracula, the strongest character in Victorian fiction, does not weaken himself by the need to be &quot;understood&quot; or &quot;pitied&quot;.  He will destroy or be destroyed.  And the worst destruction that could happen to him would be mitigation.<br />DRACULA may be the scariest book ever written;  it's certainly the best of the classic horror stories.  It's well-crafted and exquisitely constructed enough that it stands as a great novel even without genre pigeonholing.	2001-07-16
US	52918983	RK4L6YZIM1SXF	0671798561	628570269	Nevermore	Books	2	5	8	N	N	Not for All Tastes	The advice given to most aspiring authors is for them to write what they want to read.  I doubt if anyone but Harold Schechter wanted to read a book with Edgar A. Poe and Davy Crockett on the trail of a vicious murderer, but if Schechter thought a gap existed in literature that he wanted to fill, that's fine.  And, in fact, the premise was intriguing.<br />If it had been done in third person, it might've got five stars.  Here's the kick:  it's written in the first person by Poe.  Now, Poe was a great imaginative writer, but although his ideas were astounding he set a high tone and standard for his wordsmanship, so his prose never became lurid (or interesting).  He wrote his horrors with almost scientific precision -- which is why we're all glad he wrote short stories, since an entire novel by Poe might look . . . well, something like this.<br />The faux Poe's-prose is well done, although sometimes approaches satire.  Unfortunately it's unrelenting.  It's obviously carefully written, with a studied Poe-ness.  The stiltedness works very well for some high-burlesque up front, and after the first chapter or two Schechter might've let up a little on the Poeism, or lapsed a little into a more Wodehousian formality with the odd turns of phrase.  Instead, it reads -- with the intention I'm sure Schechter meant -- like a novel Poe might've written, and Poe's writing and character both come across eventually as insufferable bores.  After a few chapters one wishes Davy Crockett would pick Poe up by his feet and twirl him around and around until he hurls him out of Baltimore altogether.  <br />The other weakness of this book is that, like many, many other historical novels, characters are apt to say the most unlikely things about &quot;current events&quot;, that are thrown in (on the optimistic side) to give the book a good timeline for the reader, or (more pessimistic) to show off the author's erudition -- which in this case is impressive.<br />The book's saving grace is that,unlike so many recent history/mysteries, it's not an enormous book and, if one can hack through Poe's dense prose, can be put away in a relatively short time.  So if you're a bibliophile, as I am, always looking for the out-of-the-way or even the wacky, you might want a copy on your shelves.  The book is not recommended for the general reader.	2001-07-12
US	52918983	R2GQXD9EG9BWU0	0140390464	474714897	The Adventures of Huckleberry Finn: Revised Edition (Penguin Classics)	Books	2	6	23	N	N	Is It the Most Overrated Book?	Ever since Hemingway's unfortunate comments about HUCKLEBERRY FINN the book has been required reading for the literati.  Like most people, I read it as but a lad.  I had finished TOM SAWYER and was swept up in the stories of lost treasure and endless caverns and Injun Joe.  I thought HUCKLEBERRY FINN would be more of the same, and was disappointed to find it was about a boy abused by a drunken father who runs away in a bildungsroman where he meets all sorts of unengaging characters.  Even the Duke and the Dauphin come off better in the movies than on the original page.<br />Before continuing, I suppose I ought to give my bona fides.  I have nothing against &quot;classics&quot;.  They've been my principle study for nearly thirty years -- Proust, Dostoevsky, Dickens, Tolstoy, &amp;c. all are great chums of mine.  I'm unafraid of dead while males (oddly enough, unlike Huck, who says, &quot;After supper she got out her book and learned me about Moses and the Bulrushers, and I was in a sweat to find out all about him; but by and by she let it out that Moses had been dead a considerable long time; so then I didn't care no more about him, because I don't take no stock in dead people.&quot; I get a grim satisfaction knowing Sam Clemens is now among their number, as everyone will be who criticizes what they've produced.<br />I've recently turned 40, and just read TOM SAWYER again for the first time in a quarter century.  It's still a solid book, exciting, well-written, and funny.  It's a swell book, and great for imaginative children, as it was for me at Tom's age.  I'm now fighting Huck again, and it's rough sailing and choppy seas. I wish I was back with Swann and Baron de Charlus!  Huck's aimless drifting down the river is less interesting than seven volumes of Proust.<br />The &quot;racist&quot; accusation is fraudulent.  Twain is careless with his use of certain verboten words, but one must not judge a writer by modern standards of racial sensitivity (as with Twain) orplot development (as with Smollett) any more than future -- and I hope more rational and well-centered -- generations that come after modern writers are dead like Moses, that some of their books are not written off simply because of the twentieth century writers' rabid obsession with sex.<br />One reason young people don't like to read is because in schools, which is unfortunately the first place many young people face anything to read, force them into areas over their heads.  Tom Sawyer's story would be a better start.  It's a book written by a man who hasn't forgotten what it's like to be a boy.  Huck's book is written by a man exploiting a child's voice as a mouthpiece for his own prejudices and petty dislikes.  It's written above the heads of youths.<br />Perhaps its appeal is more like MOBY DICK or LES MISERABLE.  As the vision of Ahab after the white whale is more powerful than can be contained in a book, as the vision of Javert after Valjean transcends a magnificent novel, so perhaps the image of Huck and Jim on the big river simply couldn't be expressed by a writer of Clemens' fine humor but rather limited abilities.	2001-07-06
US	52918983	R3SNEC22ADRVSX	061812764X	396726984	J.R.R. Tolkien: Author of the Century	Books	5	4	6	N	Y	Pretty Good Analysis	Though the best analysis of THE LORD OF THE RINGS is still Paul Kocher's MASTER OF MIDDLE EARTH (and next, TOLKIEN:  MAN AND MYTH by Joseph Pearce), this book can sit unashamedly beside them on the shelf of any Tolkienphile.  After a superb introduction, the first chapter is a bumpy ride for readers not of a philological bent, as he examines particular words Tolkien may have mined from ancient Anglo-Saxon and Nordic sources and how these words were employed.  Occasionally, Shippey makes statements that are too bold:  although it's likely Tolkien did read and was familiar with the texts Shippey cites, Shippey fails to always give citations from Tolkien's primary sources to prove it -- or as evidence that Tolkien meant to use individual words in the way Shippey suggests.  Additionally, Shippy occasionally suggests that he could read Tolkien's mind, by telling us what Tolkien must've been thinking at a given moment.  While interesting speculation, it isn't labeled as such.  Too, Shippy's stile and sentence structure is baffling in several places, leaving one to read a sentence several times to figure out the subject.  Overall, though, his analysis of Tolkien's works isn't derogatory or negative, as is the case with critics of more stunted imagination or whose templates THE LORD OF THE RINGS refuses to fit.  Shippey identifies himself as other than a believing Christian and his examination in those areas is cursory, but nevertheless valid.  He also tackles a few of Tolkien's lesser-known works such as the wonderful short story &quot;Leaf by Niggle&quot;, which should be more often anthologized.  So, if you've re-read your Kocher until the cover's dangling, and you thought the critical survey in Pearce's biography was flawed only in being altogether too brief, this is a solid, positive, and highly informative critical edition and a must for citizens of Middle Earth.	2001-07-02
US	52918983	R3VUL0C193NS6J	046509225X	841571040	Skull Wars: Kennewick Man, Archaeology, And The Battle For Native American Identity	Books	3	14	20	N	N	Who Owns Science?	Indiana Jones famously said that archaeology is the search for fact, not truth.  Caucasoid skeletal remains, and ancient artifacts (predating the fabled land-bridge to Siberia in the last ice age) that have more in common with findings at sites of ancient people found in Europe than anything Asian or typically &quot;Native American&quot;, may force archaeologists to totally reconstruct the settlement prehistory of the western hemisphere. First, a few terms.  &quot;Caucasiod&quot; does not mean &quot;white&quot;, since we can have no notion of the skin pigmentation of someone who lived 12,000 years ago.  And when ancient artifacts appear that are similar to ancient artifacts in Europe, we do not mean &quot;Europe&quot; as we know the term, but only the physical geographical region where present-day Europe is.  And the reason I put &quot;Native American&quot; in quotes is because, by anyone's model, they are not indigenous to the western hemisphere but only, by current models, the earliest immigrants to the Americas.<br />But they may not be the earliest immigrants to the Americas.  Therein lies the political dilemma and potentially explosive controversy discussed in _Skull Wars_.  Though the book is engaging and interesting, it focuses too much on trying to be even-handed on both sides.  Of course everyone today has much sympathy for the plight of &quot;Native Americans&quot;.  Occasionally there can be some justice to it (Cortez surely was no worse to the Aztecs than the Aztecs to the Toltecs) but overall they have received pretty shoddy treatment.  Darwinism is much to blame for this, as it fit in very nicely with nineteenth century preconceptions of progress and racism;  charts were made putting human beings on a chart of evolution (naturally, with Europeans on top).  <br />But sympathy with that nonsense, however deep, must not be able to alter the scientist's search for fact.  If it is a fact that people who lived where Europe now is migrated to the Americas before or simultaneously with Asian people who became the &quot;Native Americans&quot;, it should be known;  if it is not a fact, that shoulc be known.  The only way to do it is to study the bones.  Yet &quot;Native American&quot; groups claim that all ancient human remains found in the Americas are their ancestors, and given a respectful burial like &quot;Native Americans&quot; and hidden from the prying eyes of scientists.  This may be somewhat true.  DNA is found among some groups of &quot;Native Americans&quot; that matches a strand found only in Europe.  So some &quot;Native American&quot; tribes may have been founded by early European migrants, or perhaps the Asian and European migrants intermarried in many cases.  <br />True, if it is a fact Europeans arrived here first, or simultaneously, with Asians, it may be exploited.  Since there were no obvious European descendants here by 1492, some may make a case that the &quot;Native Americans&quot; slaughtered the actual first inhabitants.  This is an ugly side issue, not based on any discernable fact, and should not interfere with the establishment of American anthropological chronology.  Certainly both sides in the fight over Kennewick Man and his ilk have a claim to right -- and to wrong.  But the only way to keep the incident from looking like a political cover-up is to study Kennewick Man and his peers, to discover fact, no matter what particular group does not like it.  Indiana Jones would want to study the bones for facts, but would not presume to interpret what they said about Truth.<br />&quot;Skull Wars&quot;, which tells this story pretty well, was nevertheless premature since the court case about who should have custody of Kennewick Man has not been decided, so there's no proper resolution.  We await the revised edition.	2001-06-15
US	52918983	R1V3CLJSEK147G	0968601405	865805341	The Jesus Puzzle. Did Christianity Begin with a Mythical Christ? : Challenging the Existence of an Historical Jesus	Books	1	56	158	N	N	Verdict That Demands Evidence	Fifty years afterward, a poll shows that perhaps as many as one third of Americans believe the Holocaust never happened.  Five hundred years on, a cottage industry has developed to prove that Shakespeare didn't exist, or that he was an illiterate bumpkin serving as a front man for modest playwrites of considerable talent.  After 2000 years, it's not surprizing to find a cottage industry has grown up saying that Jesus didn't exist;  that He wasn't whom he claimed to be;  and/or that every Christian for twenty centuries was wrong, and that a modern author suddenly has the enlightenment to see something that others have missed in all that time.  Usually, as with most disciplines -- not just religious, but literary, scientific, you name it -- the author builds a theory, and then searches for facts to support it.  On the other hand, in a religious discipline like Christianity, a good many people who have looked objectively at the evidence (as I have) and found Christianity true (as I have) are suddenly branded.  We have no objectivity, though we have looked on both sides, because from evidence we have formed an opinion, and since our opinion is different from what is currently popular, we are told we are no longer objective.  (I want to make my own affiliation known so I won't be accused of hiding it -- I was not a Christian before 1989;  at a point in time in Sept. of 1989 I accepted Christ.  Before that, I did do years of graduate work in history, and though I am not currently a professional historian, I do know how to study and assess historical evidence, even ancient evidence;  and I made up my mind from the first moment that if I ever found anything in Christianity that was egregiously incongruous between what I was supposed to believe and the historial record I would cease to believe it.  After more than ten years, I'm still sifting evidence, and have not found the smoking gun many authors of Doherty's ilk have claimed to have discovered).  But about Doherty.  He falls into lots of the traps of &quot;accepted history&quot;.  For instance, Mark is generally called the &quot;first&quot; gospel.  There is no reason to accept it as the first, other than its brevity.  Certainly fragments of Mark have been dated to within a generation after Jesus,  but if Mark is indeed the earliest gospel account, anomalies brought about by extra-Markian concurrences between Luke and Matthew need to be clarified.  This has been done by bringing in the &quot;Q&quot; document, which is another bit of historical evidence used by Doherty.  But in fact, the quest for the &quot;Q&quot; document has been like the hunt for the heffalump.  No fragments of it have ever been found.  No one ever heard tell of it or a whiff of a suggestion of it before the nineteenth century.  How is it that we can these days quote a document that no one has seen and that exists only hypothetically? In fact, a simple rechronology of the gospel accounts and ceasing to hold the doctrinaire Markian primacy ceases to make the &quot;Q&quot; document necessary (Occam's razor).  Searching for &quot;Q&quot; is the stereotypical blindfolded man in a lightless basement looking for the black cat who isn't there -- only they've found it!  But, despite the demise of the &quot;Q&quot; document, there are extra-gospel references to Jesus, one from a near-contemporary:  Josephus.  Admittedly, the evidence has been corrupted by a zealous medieval scribe, but the passage itself has been dissected and though it's often discarded because it's corrupted, but I inferred from Doherty that there was no such evidence, even corrupted.  He uses words of unpleasant connotation (like &quot;lockstep&quot; to provide the way orthodoxy formed) but words like that simply cheapen his arguments, since they could just as easily be used to against those who hold the dogmas that have risen since Schleiermacher, (and especially those of the self-appointed guardians of neo-orthodoxy, the Jesus Seminar [cf. Timothy Luke Johnson's _The Real Jesus_]).  The fact is, anyone unfamiliar with the Jesus of history -- who is either outside Christianity, or was brought up in &quot;the church&quot; rather than the Church -- will see Doherty's presentation as something new and exciting, rather than as dogmatic as the works of former agnostics Lewis and Chesterton (both of whom, I admit, are a little too literary). <br />Further, Doherty says, &quot;For the early record shows us that the Christian movement during its first hundred years was a sprawling, uncoordinated, diverse organism marked by division and incompatible theologies.&quot;  Maybe.  The &quot;early record&quot; is something he blows hot and cold on.  When it supports his thesis, it's okily-dokily.  Otherwise, it's out the window.  But even before the fall of Jerusalem, Christianity was outlawed. It was frowned on as too revolutionary  between the waves of persecution.  For those who don't deny the Holocaust, picture it breaking out intermittantly for more than two centuries.  Although local &quot;churches&quot; within the larger Church met when they could, some in more relative safety and some in danger of arrest, the faith spread rapidly and by the time of Constantine the Church was a series of underground cells stretching from northern Britain to India and perhaps even China.  Travel, even on good Roman roads, was arduous and time-consuming -- it's significant, for instance, that the first post-Constantinian council of the church was attended largely regionally, with very few delegates from western Europe (though one or two were able to come from places as far afield as Spain).  Naturally, in such situation, heresy does arise, when segments of the church are kept in isolation.  That was the purpose of the councils, the fathers, and, eventually, the great African philosopher Augustine, who, while not himself an original thinker, was able to codify orthodoxy, which has remained unchanged in the main for at least seventeen, andperhaps nineteen, centuries, despite the occasional rise of someone who suddenly sees something that everyone else has missed and develops a short-lived movement. Recently, a British crew making a documentary on the &quot;historical&quot; Jesus created a face that may have represented something like what Jesus may have looked like.  The big news media made a big deal about the fact that Jesus' skin was dark.  But I merely thought, they're all excited to announce that Jesus was a typical plebian Mediterranean Jew of the Roman era, to which I could only answer, perhaps not in too scholarly a way, &quot;Duh!&quot;  Naturally, there's description of Jesus unless you want to accept Isaiah 53 as a genuine prophecy, so there's no accurate way of depicting Jesus, any more than there's any genuine way to reconstruct the mythical &quot;Q&quot; document (though it's been done).  But to say Jesus was dark-skinned, given His time and place and heritage, should come as a surprize to no one. It should come as no surprize, also, that those predisposed to not accept Jesus' divinity (or, in Doherty's case, even His humanity!] will not do so, while those who have weighed the evidence and not found it wanting, will.  This is not a place to start for the &quot;quest&quot; of a historical or any other kind of Jesus.  I am reminded of Malachi Martin's JESUS NOW, not a look at Jesus but at 2000 years of perspectives of Jesus.  <br />In any case, Doherty's evidence, just in the few above examples, is hardly irrefutable.  His thesis is not original, but rather mainstream in the current deluge of post-Jesus Seminar books.  If you want to start here, remember that he is a partisan as much as the former athiest Lee Stroebel, whose quest for a historical Jesus made him a believer, or C.S. Lewis, whose quest for a mythical Jesus led him to believe -- or as much a partisan, indeed, as I am, a former . . . well, not much of anything, who had an experience of the truth of Christ's divinity and humanity, and who has spent ten years weighing evidence.  But remember, it's not enough to weigh evidence, eventually you have to bring a verdict, and I hope you will do it with more evidence -- and different kinds of evidence -- than you find here.  You can read and read about it, but evetually you'll have to go to the Source.  If you're making an honest effort to find God in Jesus, eventually you'll have to ask God.  If you're making an honest effort to buttress your rejection of the person of Jesus or your personal hatred of Christians or a certain type of Christians (as I once despised the fundamentalists I've joined), this book will help narrow your mind in that direction.	2001-04-10
US	52918983	R27OMQ55MX7IG7	0679450440	483248967	Protect and Defend	Books	1	5	25	N	N	Extremist Politics 101	In 2000, in an inexplicable interview, a well-known tv morning show host asked Tom Clancy if the political undercurrent of his latest novel, THE BEAR AND THE DRAGON, was too right-wing for the country.<br />No one seems to ask that about the left-wing extremist propagandists, into which category R.N. Patterson falls with this preachy polemic on 1) how those who subscribe to left wing causes are superior to other forms of life, and 2) how to live in fear and hate of those with whom we disagree... ...Patterson is a fine writer with a good sense of suspense.  But once he gets on his soapbox he cheapens his book.  Of course, fiction writers, along the political spectrum from Clany to Patterson and even more extremist than Patterson, have an advantange in that they can make up situations and provide them solutions that fit their worldview.  Mr. Patterson isn't burdened with the baggage of reality.  <br />Mr. Patterson's finely honed, ideologically leftist dream world is fine for those who believe in his far left brand of Utopia.  But unless you're a subscriber, you're less than dirt to him.<br />If, when he says Christian, one reads &quot;Jew&quot;, one comes away from this novel with trepidation.	2001-02-07
US	52918983	R3FV86EI1YLXBP	0312973209	922599371	Irish Tenure: A Mystery set at the University of Notre Dame (Roger and Philip Knight Mysteries Set at the Univ. of Notre Dame)	Books	4	3	3	N	Y	For Chesterton Fans	Ralph McInerny, best known for his Father Dowling mysteries, has here produced not so much a mystery story but rather a slice of life from the campus of Notre Dame, which he knows so well.  Anyone expecting a clear-cut mystery story where someone turns up dead at the start, with the rest of the book devoted to a singleminded pursuit of the culprit, will be sorely disappointed and should look elsewhere.  The murder happens very late in the book and the murderer is pretty obvious. <br />IRISH TENURE is more like Malcolm Bradbury than Agatha Christie.  McInerny shows the dark side of academic life (even at so august an institution an Notre Dame):  the catfight for tenure.  The structure is loose and seems at first rambling and discursive, but McInerny winds it all together eventually.  Until then, he gives subtle character studies of the sorts of people who drift into academia:  those intelligent enough to be professors but somehow haven't managed into the tenure track;  those who are tenured and probably shouldn't be;  those who need and or deserve to be tenured;  the evil necessity to publish or perish . . .<br />He also takes long overdue pot-shots, sometimes poignant and sometimes hilarious, at political correctness, especially regarding draconian modern ideas of sexual harrassment.  <br />The plot, such as it is, is centered on the discovery of every Chestertonian's dream, a long-lost Father Brown story.  IRISH TENURE will prove a joy for fans of G.K. Chesterton, for most of the main characters live and breathe his works.  For the uninitiated, therefore, the book  will doubtlessly prove confusing.  Chesterton enthusiasts will find piquant prose, and enjoy spending time with like-minded characters who have found that Chesterton adds zest to life.<br />The main disappointment is that there is no genuine long-lost story appended to the end of the tale;  but that's just as well, for McInerny's work would've suffered in the comparison.  And we can be thankful that McInerny didn't attempt a pastiche.	2000-12-05
US	52918983	R19E4IR9NYEWUK	0813389992	812358167	Did Marco Polo Go To China?	Books	2	21	26	N	N	Worth reading -- but in balance	Marco Polo, whose very name is a byword for travel and adventure, is worth reconsidering;  but the case Frances Wood builds against him is primarily negative:  Polo didn't mention the Great Wall, or cormorant fishing, or  binding women's feet.  All these matters are more than adequately answered  in John Larner's MARCO POLO AND THE DISCOVERY OF THE WORLD, a book I  recommend for balance.  The thesis of Marco Polo not going to China is  compelling, and Wood's style is fast-paced and keeps at a high level.  But  she seems to rebut her own argument in some places -- for instance, even  mentioning a name close to &quot;Polo&quot; where Marco was said to have  been, but dismissing it just as quickly by saying it couldn't have been him  (the answer comes in a later chapter, but by the time you reach it, the  author has made the argument look specious).   <br />Marco Polo may indeed  have exaggerated his own importance.  Instead of being ruler of a province,  being a major player in the salt business, on the face of it, was probably  more likely his position.  But Marco was a businessman brought up in a  mercantile family.  Unlike the author's idea, a seventeen year old in the  thirteenth century was not considered a &quot;boy&quot; -- in fact, he was  coming up on half his life expectancy.  Even if the &quot;great wall&quot;  of that day was the wall we see today (it wasn't, the impressive brick  facade came later), we can hardly expect boyish wonder.<br />Without positive  evidence, Frances Wood runs across the problem of those who believe  Shakespeare didn't write his plays, or that he didn't exist.  They can only  argue from negative evidence, and a negative can't be proven.  It cannot be  proven that, because the Khan of Khans didn't mention a Venetian traveller,  that the traveller who says he was there was lying -- although it can may  suggest that he wasn't as important in the Khan's court as he intimates.   <br />This book is only for those who wish to find out all aspects of the Polo  problem.  It's not recommended for the general reader, especially one who  just wants to see famous people debunked.  Debunking western European  figures is a cottage industry at the turn of the twenty-first century, but  in the case the evidence is very thin for the revisionists.<br />For someone  who wants a good, solid, general overview of Polo and his mystique, check  the John Larner book.	2000-06-26
US	52918983	R1TPRHI6ZG1RHL	0691059896	187738126	The Book of Jerry Falwell: Fundamentalist Language and Politics.	Books	4	20	80	N	N	A Good Start to a Rich and Rewarding Subject	One of the biggest insults I ever received was from a friend who thought he was saying something good about me, telling me, as if I'd broken some law of mutual exclusivity, I was both a Christian and an intellectual.  I was an intellectual first, and had a born-again experience -- and my first  real prayer offered to a God I scarcely knew included the phrase that,  though I would follow Christ, I would not become one of those &quot;nutty  religious-righters&quot;.  My first lesson as a Christian:  you don't  dictate terms to God.  Now people who meet me with no exposition to my life  tend to stereotype me pretty quickly, because the last firewall of the  bigot in the USA is that against Christians.  Increasingly at the end of  the twentieth and dawn of the twenty-first century after Christ,  &quot;extremists&quot; are defined as those who seem to actually believe  what they profess to believe;  and to believe fervently is the mark of a  cultist, and probably a threat to society;  and Christians are thought and  written about, though not yet so mercilessly, in the same sort of ways that  Jews were toward the end of the nineteenth century.  Yet if God offered  revelation to the Jews, not only of God's nature (&quot;I Am That I  Am&quot;) and of man's fall from Grace, and God came as a Jew in Jesus as  sacrifice for our sins, and Christ rose from the dead to prove His power,  one cannot be half-hearted in clinging to that salvation, though  accepting  it does not make one perfect.  Throughout Christian history there has been  an ebb and flow.  At certain periods -- the twelfth century, the sixteenth,  and the twentieth, for instance -- many Christians see their faith as  becoming too worldly and corrupted and there was an impulse to go back to  roots, to fundamentals, and rebuild as if from scratch the Church's  relationship with God.  Such an impulse drove modern  &quot;fundamentalism&quot;, a nebulous term that is increasingly being  defined by those who would eradicate it.  As in the twelfth century, when  there was a rise of monasticism to separate the Church from society, in the  twentieth century the impulse was pretty sedate.  But in the 1970s many  &quot;fundamentalists&quot; and evangelicals became increasingly  politically active to join the increasingly complex marketplace of ideas,  so that Christ wouldn't be lost in the babble of modern plurality.  Dodging  from one party to the next, first with the Democrats and Jimmy Carter, they  were not isolated as enemies until they supported Ronald Reagan, when the  intellecutal elite, to use an idea of Solzhenitsyn's, in the academic,  artistic, and media communities began scapgoating Christian  fundamentalists.  The biggest scapegoats were the perceived leaders, the  most famous (or infamous) being Jerry Falwell, whose name, in a wacky sort  of way, became synonymous with intolerance and extremism.  Because of media  conditioning Christian fundamentalists (in precis:  those who actually  believe what they profess, and live that seven days a week and not just an  hour on Sunday) have been perceived as easily-manipulated rubes, a nuisance  rather than a subject for academic attention.  However, just as people  cannot be categorized simply by reference to their race, gender, or  nationality, Christian fundamentalists cannot be put in a jar and labelled,  for they come from all walks of life and all degrees of learning and  intelligence.  Though we hate to feel we're living under a microscope,  there is some small glimmer of hope that this book will help to raise  understanding and a level of tolerance toward fundamentalists, before  society has to have the jolt it had to have tolerance for the Jews after  World War II.	2000-05-09
US	52918983	R72UIKE0OKIJ4	0736900470	560453481	Praying for the World's 365 Most Influential People	Books	3	4	9	N	N	Worth looking Into	Christianity, an offshoot of Judaism, was from its very beginning (at Pentecost) and evangelical faith.  In fact, it's not so much a religion but a two-thousand year recitation of Redemtion through Jesus Christ.  And in those twenty centuries some of the most unlikely and indeed offensive  people who ever lived have found peace in Christ.  It's good to pray for  everyone simply because that's what Christianity is -- it's not a secret  society or a clique, but men and women born again of the Holy Spirit who  only wish others to share in that Spirit.<br />While it's good to pray for  everyone, leaders of society especially need prayer support, whether they  know God or not.  Any buttressing will be appreciated.  But the down side  to this book is that while lists of influential people should circulate for  prayer, putting them in a book and selling them seems on the face of it  rather on a shakey foundation.  It also gives Christophobes, the enemies of  Christianity, who are quick to misinterpret anything Christians do from  bigotry or fear, a reason to point to us as if we are somehow being  judgmental, when in fact we're merely doing our Christian duty to pray for  our leaders, whether our leaders agree with us or not.<br />Christians should  stay up with the times (as Kierkegaard said, keep the Bible in one hand and  the newspaper in the other), and this book really is only for anyone so  clueless they don't can't name world and business leaders on their own.	2000-04-03
US	52918983	RTRIESSCGCAPM	0471379123	841045872	Sudden Origins: Fossils, Genes, and the Emergence of Species	Books	3	0	19	N	N	A Courageous Scientist and His Flawed Theory	Saltations have always been a problem for evolutionary theorists, and supporters of saltations have generally been dismissed highhandedly.  So has anyone who has questioned the dogmas of evolution.  Authors of any  books or articles questioning the status quo, for whatever reason, are  branded &quot;creationists&quot;, though most of those who dismiss them  don't seem to understand the difference in those who believe in Creation,  and the small coterie who cover themselves with the flimsy and meaningless  term &quot;creationist&quot;, and who do not represent believers in  Creation.  Creation cannot be proven in a laboratory -- but unfortunately,  neither can evolution.  And though for more than a century the fossil  record has been scrutinized for proof, the evidence, if it proves any  evolutionary theory, tends to support saltation.  Since most evolutionary  scientists, by their attitude, seem to live in terror under the  misapprehension that by admitting their own theories are somehow incorrect  means yeilding to the tiny but vocal &quot;creationists&quot;, any  suggestion that the holy writ of evolution can be questions on the  slightest jot or tittle brings the scorn of the establishment on the  questioner's head.  <br />With this threat in mind, the author of SUDDEN  ORIGINS has risks his reputation to propose a sweeping new theory in  evolution that would account for the fossil record's evidence of  saltations. <br />The major plus in the book is the history of evolutionary  squabbles past.  Frankly, this is something that evolutionary scientists  need to heed.  I've read too many scientific books where the author,  usually some respected PhD at a prestigious institution, seems to have no  grasp at all of the history of his topic.  Certainly this is the case in  astronomy, where myths of medieval cosmology and compete misunderstandings  and misconstructions of astronomical development (not to mention outright  lies taken as gospel) find their way into print as truth.  Scientists  ignore their history at their peril (cf:  George Santayana).  And perhaps  examinations of the bickerings of evolutionary scientists within &quot;the  family&quot; can help them to stop being so rigid.<br />If the book remained a  history of evolutionary problems, it would be a five-star book -- such a  book, from a scientific perspective, is necessary, but scientists seem too  timid to do it themselves (what they need is a Teilhard in their ranks who  will risk excommunication by the scientific elite) and leave it to the  &quot;creationists&quot;, who, like some scientists (and Teilhard) and  unlike most genuine Christians, are not above fudging facts to reach their  conclusions.<br />But he goes on with his theory, which is very specialized  and interesting, but rather rough going for the lay reader.  I eagerly  await the author's forthcoming book, which promises to build on the history  presented here.  Unfortunately, his theory, like the double-sun theory for  our solar system presented a few years ago in a book called NEMESIS, will  most likely prove an interesting but ultimately futile study.	2000-03-28
US	52918983	R15EKGUY5N5HUF	0385334206	739505736	Breakfast of Champions: A Novel	Books	1	12	37	N	N	Don't Bother Wasting Your Time	It's amazing how Kurt Vonnegut has been able to hornswaggle readers for so long;  and that he's finally being accepted as genuine literature by the elitist critics and professors demonstrates his thimblerigging proficiency.   That said, I will admit &quot;Breakfast&quot; has the most accessable  story of any of his books I've perused.  The structure is at least  interesting, the way he's managed to chop the narrative into sound bites  and nevertheless make it coherent.  What first puts one off this novel,  though, are his windy pontifications.  It seems almost a contradiction in  terms to find a nihilist egoist, but somehow Vonnegut manages.  I grew  tired of the author long before the story itself grew tedious.  If you  enjoy Vonnegut's smug tendentiousness, I would recommend this book as one  of his better efforts.  If you're looking for mature fiction, pass by.	2000-03-28
US	52918983	RNJ6O1BAXMG9J	0060637773	871948449	Next Pope, The - Revised & Updated: A Behind-the-Scenes Look at How the Successor to John Paul II Will be Elected and Where He Will Lead The Church	Books	4	6	9	N	N	Good Overview of Modern Selection Process	The conclave (con clave:  &quot;with a key&quot;) process for electing popes has changed enormously in the last 40 years.  THE NEXT POPE gives an overview of these changes, from how &quot;eighty-something&quot; cardinals  no longer vote, to how the spartan conclave life has changed.  The authors  give:  several concise but informative overviews of conclaves of the last  150 years, drawing some tongue-in-cheek but pertinent unwritten rules about  the process;   an overview of Pope John Paul II and his successful  pontificate;  the reasons that another non-Italian, or conservative, or  reforming pope might or might not be chosen;  and suggests likely  candidates to be his successor.  Among the trivia one picks up is why,  though anyone who may be ordained a priest can be a pope, only cardinals  are liable to be chosen;  but the book's balance is toward the weightier  issues of the modern papacy, considerations the college of cardinals will  have to face, and examinations of likely candidates from Europe, the  Americas, and the Third World.  The book's writing is succinct, clear, and  anecdotal.  The only difficult part to follow where the authors go over the  college of cardinals with a handicapper's eye, mentioning too many names  possibly unfamiliar to the typical reader.  Nevertheless this book is a gem  for anyone who would like a brief crash-course in  modern papal elections,  and for political junkies who want to understand how the sovereign of the  Vatican state is chosen -- both by the movement of the Holy Spirit and  behind-the-scenes politics.  The only reason I would refrain from giving a  fifth star is its paucity of conclave history prior to Gregory XVI.	2000-03-27
US	52918983	R1Y2OZCRPHELKR	0385493800	934400771	The Testament	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Exquisite little parable	This book proves that a best-seller doesn't have to be mindless.  No one's going to confuse Grisham with Dostoevsky, but his readers don't want a story bogging down with too much profundity.  He has just the right mix,  the best mix of legitimate orthodox Christianity and literature since  Walker Percy and Larry Woiwode.	1999-12-13
US	52918983	R2BGLNB6KB413X	0802812198	996594245	War in Heaven, A Novel	Books	5	23	25	N	N	One of the Century's Overlooked Masterpieces	Williams has often been -- unfairly -- compared to Lewis and Tolkien.  Both the other writers are much loved and well-read.  Williams' books, however, were very different.  Deeper, in many respects; far more serious  as literature;  and far more committed overtly to Christ.  He wasn't a  great stylist and sometimes you feel he wrote too quickly, but the  intensity of his books is unmatched.  WAR IN HEAVEN starts off as a murder  mystery, but later becomes a Grail quest.  It's the sort of book people of  faith should write more of, and the sort of book by a person of faith the  secular world should read and praise -- but won't.	1999-10-07
US	52918983	R4RDDIUQ64RNE	0394555082	642527170	Dutch: A Memoir of Ronald Reagan	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Judge for Yourself, as the Author says	It's too bad there's so much controversy swirling about this book, especially since many in the news media covering it are too vapid to comprehend it.  Biography, and history, has transcended the recitation of  mere facts.  Yet there is the problem:  history and biography are facts.   There are enough facts about every human being, much less a man of Reagan's  greatness, so that several separate biographies may be written about  anyone, presenting that person, you or me, as totally different people,  depending on the author's interpretation of the facts.  Beyond the problem  of underlying theme, there are two more problems, one of them real and the  other largely imaginary.  The imaginary one is that there has to be a  &quot;new&quot; form of biography or history, because those writing today  seem that the mere recitation of fact -- which would've been far better in  this case -- simply isn't interesting.  Another &quot;new&quot; biography I  read recently was on the actor Peter Sellers, whom the author summed up as  &quot;evil&quot;.  Perhaps he was, but it's hardly a biographer's place to  make that sort of judgment.  Casting himself in the book is a relativistic  approach, rather like the scientists who believe performing an experiment  in itself alters the results.  This time, we have a recognized and honored  biographer inserting himself fictionally into the narrative, and putting  thoughts in people's heads that he cannot verify.  I never met Ronald  Reagan (I also didn't support him at the time although I've changed totally  in hindsight to say he's one of our greatest presidents), but from other  reports he was simply a man who was himself.  This confuses many people.   We expect people to put on different faces and play different parts in  different surroundings.  There's a certain accepted schizophrenia let loose  in society, if I may use that term loosely, in its popular meaning.  In a  personal way, the best compliment ever paid to me was from a co-worker who  told me, &quot;You know, you're the same with everyone.&quot;  For some  reason, this can confuse people these days.  I wish Mr. Morris, who's  previous work is impeccable, had, if he couldn't make heads or tails of  Reagan the man, simply fallen back on a boring recitation of facts.  He'll  probably sell more books with the controversy, but if I were to choose a  biography of Reagan -- or anyone else -- for the facts of his life and  career, I would be more likely to choose one that at least made a pretense  of presenting the fact as they were discoverable, and leave the  interpretation of them to me.  However, to those out there who still hate  and despise Ronald Reagan's guts simply on ideological grounds, it might be  a good place to start toward a more tolerant understanding of this man who  changed the world and led the US to unprecedented economic success.	1999-10-05
US	52918983	R2R2591FLK0O5O	0898707102	142963587	An Exorcist Tells His Story	Books	4	15	17	N	Y	Not just a ghost story	When anyone asks if I believe in ghosts, I say no.  But when I then tell them I believe in demons, they are surprized: either that I'm so medieval in my mindset, or by their own sudden realization that, whether they  believe in ghosts or not, there are worse things.  I do not believe in the  &quot;supernatural&quot; but angels, fallen or not, are part of the created  world we inhabit.  This little book is an excellant primer on demons -- who  they are and what they want.  They are fallen angels and they want our  damnation, in the same way Samson took as many people as he could out with  him.  Although written plainly, without gimmicks, without shock, the book  slowly horrifies.  It's a must-read for anyone who cares about what we're  up against.  But it is also a book of hope, for the demons are defeated by  Christ, though yet powerful.	1999-08-09
US	52918983	R2TWJNZISZ8BH1	1877733075	163121156	Losing Faith in Faith: From Preacher to Atheist	Books	2	8	23	N	N	Let's Dispose of Dogma	Mr. Barker gets points for setting up the problem and reconsidering a position formerly held.  Too many people are going to use this book 1) to let Mr. Barker do their thinking for them, or 2) to butress a dogmatic  position of their own.  Next to some of the intellectuals of the 20th  century who came to faith in Christ -- Stravinsky, Eliot, Adler, Lewis,  Solzenhitsyn, Christabel Pankhurst, et al -- the book looks lightweight,  but it is the result of someone's serious thought. Unfortunately, too many  Christian and anti-Christian people give less serious thought to what they  believe than what brand of toothpaste the buy;  most in both groups (and  I've been in both groups, and the people in them are pretty much the same)  reject or accept a position out of hand, so at least it's refreshing to see  someone being thoughtful.  Ten years ago I might've welcomed the book, when  I didn't know enough about scripture to find holes in Mr. Barker's  arguments, but my own my own spiritual journey went the other way and I  accepted Christ.  Nearly every position formerly held, where I thought  there was nothing higher or finer than my Self, was changed by the power of  the Holy Spirit and also by the scripture that should be foremost to all, 1  Thessalonians 5:21, &quot;Test everything.&quot; (NIV)  If you get this  book, I would also urge Mortimer Adler's HOW TO THINK ABOUT GOD:  A GUIDE  FOR THE TWENTIETH CENTURY PAGAN; and &quot;The Paradoxes of  Christianity&quot; in ORTHODOXY by G.K. Chesterton, another agnostic  intellectual who came to faith.  Jesus died for you, specifically, not  &quot;mankind&quot;, and out of love for you, specifically.  Whatever your  belief system, whether agnostic, athiest, humanist, or Christian, think  seriously about what it is you believe, don't be told what to think, but  learn how, and make your own decisions.  Don't build a fort around your own  dogma.	1999-08-04
US	52918983	R1W2V61NZR5SH9	1862042020	879628075	The Last Pope: The Decline and Fall of the Church of Rome : The Prophecies of St. Malachy for the New Millennium	Books	1	56	66	N	N	Sad, To Be Used Only As a Low-Water Mark of Our Culture	Pretty poor.  If you think this might be a valid look at the prophesies of St. Malachy, think again.  One presumes the author has an axe to grind against Catholicism.  I'm not a Catholic, but I gave serious consideration  to becoming one after giving this tripe the once-over.  Some of the things  he says are merely laughable.  His depictions of Bernard of Clairvaux and  Pius XII go beyond libel (fortunately for the author, you can't libel the  dead) and his pitiful portrayal of John Paul II hardly fits the courageous  individual who fought in the resistance against the Nazis, and who as  Cardinal and Pope stood eye-to-eye against the Soviets until they blinked.   He also attributes the Catholic Church's dwindling membership in recent  years to its alleged &quot;medieval&quot; mindset, rather than attributing  the loss to post-Vatican II problems, as most serious observers do.  St.  Malachy, whether he actually had the visions or whether they themselves are  a forgery (most scholarship leans toward the latter), made a list of the  popes up to just beyond the number of our present pope, and then, he said,  would come the anti-Christ.  In his letters, John the Elder warns us  against &quot;the spirit of anti-christ&quot;, and this is certainly in  that spirit.  Don't waste your money unless you despise the Catholic church  or Christianity in general, which is the group Hogue panders to.  This book  is comparable to a Herr Goebbels commentary on Maimonides.	1999-07-26
US	52918983	R2OK15G6T0LS6A	185984054X	181218559	The Missionary Position: Mother Teresa in Theory and Practice	Books	2	24	42	N	N	Now I Understand	In olden days (the 1980's) I was a typical liberal because I cared for human rights and the plight of humanity, but had more words than deeds and always thought of humanity as cattle, to be cared for in this life alone.   After an unexpected (and unsought) conversion to Jesus Christ, after which  I genuinely became concerned about people not as as species or a collective  &quot;humanity&quot; but as individuals, I heard a co-worker of mine -- and  a friend who never appreciated my newfound worldview -- say in one mention  of Mother Theresa that she wondered what Mother Theresa's angle was  (meaning her agenda).  I never understood what she meant, and thought she  was just trying to get my goat.  I've been moving into a world beyond  &quot;angles&quot; and &quot;agendas&quot; and &quot;ulterior  motives&quot;.  Oh, because of Original Sin, once an affront of my  intelligence but now the foundation of my view of myself, my friends, and  greater humanity, none of us are ever perfect, but nevertheless that can  not be construed that everyone has a hidden agenda.  Nor can the concerns  of Mother Theresa in her ministry be compared with the sort of altogether  natural concerns of the life we commonly mistake for reality.  Fact is,  however, I only know Mother Theresa from reports of her life.  I never met  her, never spoke with her.  But I understand that no matter how selflessly  one lives, or what good one does, if one goes about it in a way other  people do not approve of, or espouse an appreciation for all human life,  even the unborn, one is put in a jar and labelled.  Perhaps the person who  died in the same week as Mother Theresa, Princess Diana, is more loved and  venerated by worldly and/or liberal types because she went about it the  &quot;right&quot; way -- hobnobbing with rock superstars and condemning  land mines and living in a palace, rather than going and living out in  Calcutta and living with lepers. Mother Theresa is currently being judged  in a highercourt than we have on earth and whatever she did  inappropriately is being considered by the Ultimate Tribunal.  I was  reminded, in this book, of similar bilious attacks on Pope Pius XII, a  saintly man if ever there was one.  The twentieth century has seen two  extreme evils:  fascism and socialism/communism.  In Italy, where fascism  ruled in part of the century, if one wasn't a fascist one was a communist  -- one extreme to another.  Despite the Vatican's part as an underground  railroad for some of the Jewish people, Pius has been condemned to the  lowest circles of Hell by the world these days because he never offered a  documented condemnnation of Nazi Germany, which killed 6 million Jews and 6  million assorted others of his own people -- but he also never condemned  the USSR, which by the time Pius ascended to the Holy See has butchered and  tortured a hundred times that many of its own people.  But would worldly  liberal types (and Hitchens is an unabashed &quot;liberal&quot;)  countenance a papal condemnation of the socialist USSR?  The play &quot;The  Deputy&quot; was a fabric of lies;  but this book seems not so much  &quot;lies&quot; as a careful perversion of the truth.  And it's easy to  condemn Mother Theresa from an American easy chair, especially if one sees  everything in the world through the warped spectacles of  &quot;politics&quot;.  It's not easy for some people to swallow, but  everything in the world is not reductable to the common denominator of  politics.  If Mother Theresa did all she did because she thought good works  would save her own soul (a heresy) I would think far less of her than to  think of her taking money for her order, her ministry, and the people she  served from sources that men like Hitchens disapprove of.  The only reason  that I give the book two stars is because it is good to be iconoclastic, so  long as you don't do it just to smash icons.  All things must be weighed,  and anyone reading this book should read something to balance it.  Mother  Theresa, so far as I can tell, was a hero.  She burned her life out for  Christ, serving the lowest of the low, people Mr. Hitchens would not deign  to have at his table.  I understand what my co-worker meant by Mother  Theresa's &quot;angle&quot; -- here's a whole book devoted to it.  But the  &quot;angle&quot; is more in the perception of those who believe no one can  do a good deed without expecting something in return.  And there are those  who believe all religion and work done in the name of a religious figure is  a sham.  I was one, until Christ found me.  If someone is simply going to  exterminate religious belief, or anything else that demeans individual  freedom to lead toward socialist collectivizing, and thinks that one way to  accomplish that goal is to destroy the memories of people who served  others, this is a good place to start.  And for anyone who earnestly wants  to serve Christ and others disinterestedly, it's good to read this book,  and see what people are going to say about you anyway.	1999-07-22
US	52918983	RR9SEKAYY6RVS	0609603930	183754374	Uncovering Clinton: A Reporter's Story	Books	1	14	34	N	N	Isikoff's legacy	In a smarmy attempt to be a Woodward/Bernstein, Isikoff shows himself to be a glory-hound.  Instead of stumbling on a &quot;plot to get the president&quot; he stumbled on a plot to prop up and support a buffoonish  administration that, through its executive orders, its supporting of  judicial activism overturning legislation, and in myriad other ways, has  become the closest we've come to tyranny outside of wartime.  Isikoff  should be ashamed for trying to make a name for himself as some great  investigative reporter.  An investigative reporter he may be, and a good  one, but he's unable to put his own predilections on neutral.  Unlike  Christopher Hitchens, who brands himself a liberal then gets on with  telling the truth about President Clinton, despite his constant sniping at  the innocent right, Isikoff dons a moth-eaten mantle of impartiality, but  we can see his stripes through the holes.  Whether you're on the left or  the right don't buy this book and make money for Isikoff.  President  Clinton has brought all his sorrows on himself.  He has done everything  short of martial law to make himself a tyrant, he's undermined national  security, he's done his best to ruin respect for his office, and worse, for  crass political purposes he has deliberately divided this country worse  than any time since the Civil War, setting one group against another since  the early days of his administration, so he can be a Benny Hennish healer  and he's killed people in foreign countries and repeatedly mobilized the US  military to cover his shenanigans.  He's become a national joke, a national  disgrace, he's lied to every single constituent he has, to his family, to  his staff, to the country, he's violated his oath of office, he's become  the international buffoon and P.T. Barnumesque showman depicted in  Hitchens' book NO ONE LEFT TO LIE TO.  But this book is nevertheless an  attempt to prop up a flaccid legacy for a president who has done nothing  but harm the country.  Don't buy this book.  If you're on the left and want  a good read that tells the truth against Clinton, go for Christopher  Hitchens.  If you're on the right, you don't need to have your intelligence  or integrity further insulted.	1999-07-22
US	52918983	RMI2NLFTIZBDK	1859847366	676518692	No One Left to Lie to: The Triangulations of William Jefferson Clinton	Books	3	6	7	N	N	A book not to please anybody	Reviews for this, as for all the Niagra of books pouring forth on President Clinton in the waning years of the twentieth century, generally rank a solitary star -- the lowest vote -- by people who have probably not  read (or carefully read) the books but who will defend the Clintons on  anything they do or say, even those things they once condemned then  hijacked from the &quot;Contract With America&quot; and labelled their own;  or five stars, the highest ranking, by people for whom the president has  finally run out of benefits of the doubt and will never listen to him again  and who just want him in a safe retirement.  There is no conspiracy, no  group of &quot;Clinton haters&quot;.  People generally deserve respect or  hatred.  Sometimes they don't get it as they should, but people who have  probably earned it in some way.  Hitchens' book is different from most  books in that he tries very much to show neither admiration nor hatred.  He  desperately attempts to disassociate himself from evil conservatives by  condemning them as much as possible.  He shows his own political stripes  clearly, so that he won't be lumped in with the &quot;Clinton Haters&quot;  -- a mythical group created for the avoidance of fair political discourse,  wherein all people who disagree with President Clinton either on policy or  personal matters are collectivized and labelled.  However, Hitchens'  excessive attempts to say, on almost every page, &quot;I'm not one of  them,&quot; are vain, for any criticism (fair or unfair) directed at  President Clinton will label him forever in the conspiracy (naturally  anyone in a conspiracy would lie about it).  Hitchens does, however, do his  best to lay home truths at President Clinton's feet, and this book, written  from a leftist perspective, like all the others spewing out from both  directions, will add to a cumulative effect for future generations (if any  -- read YEAR OF THE RAT and the Cox report) who can look back on this  ridiculous time and this buffoonish administration dispassionately.  Since  this book is a plea from the left to others on the left to give a fair and  nonprejudicial look at an administration that has undermined the  Constitution, the legislative system (by ruling via Executive Order), the  courts, and anything else it can think of, it should be read by Clinton's  supporters -- if they can manage an iota of fairness, even from one of  their own crying in the wilderness.  Those on the right should avoid it.  They already know everything and they will find Hitchens constantly  insulting them, their beliefs, their intelligence, and even (ironic, given  the subject of this book) their integrity.  But any book that attempts,  even so twistedly as this, to get to the TRUTH and to get the TRUTH out,  can't be all bad.e and this buffoonish administration dispassionately.  Since  this book is a plea from the left to others on the left to give a fair and  nonprejudicial look at an administration that has undermined the  Constitution, the legislative system (by ruling via Executive Order), the  courts, and anything else it can think of, it should be read by Clinton's  supporters -- if they can manage an iota of fairness, even from one of  their own crying in the wilderness.  Those on the right should avoid it.   They already know everything and they will find Hitchens constantly  insulting them, their beliefs, their intelligence, and even (ironic, given  the subject of this book) their integrity.   But any book that attempts,  even so twistedly as this, to get to the TRUTH and to get the TRUTH out,  can't be all bad.	1999-07-22
US	52918983	R1HDXEH0NNPFIL	0811703177	638098880	Cook and Peary	Books	5	8	11	N	N	The most comprehensive study of the debate yet	While Mr. Bryce starts out being fair to both Cook and Peary, the loveable charlatan Fred Cook exercises a spell over him he cannot break.  Fairminded people for decades have believed neither man reached the pole, and this  book is the closest we can reach to proof -- a logical train of evidence  that leads to the inescapable conclusion that both men, for their own  reasons of pride, lied about their achievements.  And this is a shame,  since both showed courage, patience, perseverance, and both managed to  survive conditions that are unimaginably horrid to most of us.  Both men  earned some honor in their own way, and both marred it with lies and  recriminations.  A truly great book, but perhaps too intricate for the  novice in polar studies -- or for those with their own axes to grind.	1999-06-03
US	52918983	R3MKKCTSI28NOC	0684813726	82788515	Death of Outrage: Bill Clinton and the Assault on American Ideals	Books	5	5	7	N	N	The best book on the subject.  Period	A mere glance at other reviews shows that one-star ratings usually are non-factually dismissive, or address totally different subjects than the subject of this book (which was probably unread).  Read this book first for  the real reason half of America was outraged -- this isn't a book about the  justifiable impeachment of the only elected president to undergo that  indignity, but rather a philosophical and soft-spoken analysis that  examines the exercised rhetoric of those who would demean themselves by  defending the indefensible.	1999-06-03
US	52918983	R27W65O14D5G40	0375701133	441709531	The Hitler of History	Books	5	25	29	N	Y	Hitler in his place	&quot;Hitler&quot; has become less a person than a brand name in the years since his death.  His name is applied with equal casualness to left- and right-wing politics, and against anything and anyone one doesn't like.   What Hitler and the short-lived Nazi phenomenon really was has been  tailored to suit the biases of every historian who has examined them.   Lukas shows how Hitler and the Nazis are distorted by the lens of each  historian's own bigotry and shortcomings.  And yet, at the same time, he  demonstrates a truth too often overlooked by historians playing petty  oneupsmanship against those who don't share their own political views --  that Hitler was an extremely complex man, whose unique ideology doesn't fit  comfortably into either the conventional politics of left or right, but  combines the worst aspects of both.  This book is a critical examination of  Hitler biographies, as well as an assessment of Hitler himself -- which is  like grasping water -- Lukan has written a valuable resource for anyone who  wants to see beyond typical parochial presentations.  And the ultimate  conclusion one reaches when reading it is that instead of looking outward  for the answer to why Hitler happened, one should look introspectively, at  one's own heart.	1999-06-03
US	52918983	R1F5AKF2MG5D2R	0345412699	39654007	Moses : A Life	Books	3	20	26	N	N	Don't read the ending	Kirsch has provided an excellent resource on Moses.  He details the life of Moses from scripture, then highlighting it and detailing it with Rabbinical additions, apocryphal stories, and the latest scholarly  research.  If he had left it with that, this book would be a must for  anyone who cares about any of the top three monotheistic religions,  Judaism, Christianity, or Islam.  But in his summing-up, Kirsch beats us  over the head with his own sanctimonious preaching, criticizing points of  view he apparently doesn't understand or want us to.  His rambling and  occasionally spiteful insights may be applauded by those who think of  religions as toilet paper -- all brands are pretty much the same and what  matters is not the brand but your choice thereof -- but sincere Jews,  Christians, and Moslems who actually believe what they say they believe  (which is the modern definition of an extremist) will find these  self-righteous musings a slap in the face.  As far as the writing, there's  too little variety of language, and words like &quot;complied&quot; and  &quot;ranted&quot; become monotonous.  Otherwise, the book is a good  resource for beginning a study of Moses;  and one should locate and read  his sources more thoroughly than this book itself, which should go on the  shelf with dictionaries and concordances, books that are good to have  around when you need them but which you don't need to read through.	1999-05-31
US	52918983	RAVUHRDLGWFR3	0805039104	587426701	The Legend of Pope Joan: In Search of the Truth	Books	1	18	36	N	N	Don't Be Fooled By The Title -- It Has Little Relevance	Pope Joan was a mythical medieval figure.  While a good book that is both scholarly and popular could be written about a quest for locating the genesis of the legend and tracing its development and popularity, this book  fails on all counts.  The author shows no appreciation either for the  period (no self-respecting Medievalist would repeatedly refer to the  &quot;Dark Ages&quot; -- the word &quot;medieval&quot; is patronizing  enough an affront in itself) or for the Church.  In fact, at times the  historical thesis of the book seems little more than a cover for  criticizing Church heirarchy.  He prefers to make his points not by  buttressing his speculations with facts but by using loaded language to  snipe at his chosen enemies.  His idee fixe that a legend persists because  there's a real person behind it -- despite all facts to the contrary he  unearths -- certainly is questionable in the cases of King Arthur and Robin  Hood.  He also needs to keep update his knowledge in tangential matters:   he repeatedly tries to keep the Gospels rooted in the 100s AD while more  recent discoveries and manuscript fragments tend to date them much closer  to Christ.  It's easier to criticize than write a book, for I've done both,  but the author would've been better advised to write a book on his  perception of women in the church rather than using Pope Joan's legend as a  front.  However, on the plus side, the book is well-written and should  appeal to conspiracy buffs and the alien-abduction crowd.	1999-04-28
US	52918983	R1YTXSC656TPY5	0830819290	999464694	Reason in the Balance: The Case Against Naturalism in Science, Law & Education	Books	4	43	53	N	Y	About as Fair as You're Going to Get	On the face of it, evolution appears as a 19th century, white, Victorian imperialist creation myth that reflects their views of &quot;progress&quot;, making man in the image of a biological industrial  revolution.  So how has the hypothosis, imminently unprovable either way by  traditional scientific method, become the foremore cultural weltanschauung  preached by all media?  Johnson tackles evolution head-on in other books,  but here he deconstructs the modernistic worldview that have become dogma  in some scientific circles.  That Johnson is a long-time Berkeley law  professor is not a drawback.  Coming to the problems without the baggage of  losing his credibility or being ostracized by his peers, he looks at his  subject rationally and makes decisions by the weight of evidence rather  than &quot;Because that's what we were taught.&quot;  (Certainly I've read  enough books on astronomy, a favorite field of mine, where the otherwise  learned professors misconstrue and woefully misunderstand medieval science  and scholastics, and maliciously misrepresent some of the manifestations of  Renaissance humanism, esp. its firm genesis in medieval scholasticism, and  particularly the cases of Galileo and Bruno, where their own scholarship  broke down entirely).  It's hard to be open-minded (open-minded meaning  capable of weighing valid options to be persuaded of one or the other) in  either theistic or scientific circles, especially with the &quot;circle the  wagons&quot; mindset of the latter.  Certainly all disciplines, whether  scientific, historical, theological, philosopical, literary, etc. have the  jargon they use to keep outsiders from entering their inner sancta, and  Johnson has the stigma in biological cliques of not being among the  annointed.  But the reason I give less than the highest rating is because  his book is far too short.  More history, more subtly developed, would be  welcomed.  Nevertheless, Johnson weighs his words carefully so as not to be  ultimately combative or exploitative, and that's a welcome change from all  sides.  It's not for the &quot;I believe in God and that's that&quot; or  &quot;I believe in a totally mechanistic universe&quot; crowds.  But it may  help anyone who is honestly open-minded to weigh how the materialistic  doctrines reasonably, without simply accepting them as Truth.mately combative or exploitative, and that's a welcome change from all  sides.  It's not for the &quot;I believe in God and that's that&quot; or  &quot;I believe in a totally mechanistic universe&quot; crowds.  But it may  help anyone who is honestly open-minded to weigh how the materialistic  doctrines reasonably, without simply accepting them as Truth.	1999-04-28
US	52918983	R30AUAU1UMFZJP	0898707110	987395125	Tolkien: Man and Myth	Books	5	37	39	N	Y	Concise Summary of a Man and His Great Works	J.R.R. Tolkien's work and life have been misconstrued by critics who never understood a modern man's devotion to faith.  He was misconstrued even by his &quot;authorized&quot; biographer.  Pearce pierces through the crusts  of insult and mischaracterization of Tolkien (the first chapter reprints  some of the fiercest critical comments by those who lack the imagination to  see past the mundane in literature and who write &quot;Lord of the  Rings&quot; off as a childish fantasy), and his study is an excellant  overview of Professor Tolkien's life and works.  Though Pearce's book can  be read in a day, it has sufficient grounding and insight to explain why  Middle-Earth is so full and satisfying when so many other  very-well-thought-out subsequent fantasy worlds appear hollow.  This book  is must for Tolkien's fans and for anyone interested in the intertwining of  faith and literature;  and a quick, fun, and enlightening read for anyone  interested in twentieth-century literature, who is undogmatic about what  that literature must be.  Those who brand religious faith (particularly  Tolkien's devout Christianity) as irrelevant and/or literature as nothing  more than a tool mirroring their own Nihilistic mindset will not understand  this book at all.  &quot;The Lord of the Rings&quot; will probably be read  into the Fourth Millenium, and this fine study of its author dispenses with  the patronizing and pseudo-Freudian claptrap that so often surrounds  Tolkien and his sub-creation like a dreary fog, directing sunshine into  areas many critics and academics wish were left foggy.	1999-04-22
US	52918983	R1I6ADOCRPF15V	0684827549	667246406	DARWIN'S BLACK BOX: The Biochemical Challenge to Evolution	Books	3	3	4	N	N	Mixing Oil and Water	The &quot;war&quot; between science and religion does not exist as stated.  I'm no scientist, but I have spent a long time studying medieval scholastic thought;  and western science and even Darwinism are more an outgrowth of the renaissance of the cathedral schools of the twelfth century.  The only debate between science and religion concerns Darwinism (there's nothing one way or the other in the Bible about the age of the Universe).  Did man  and other animals evolve?  The defenders on both sides are more passionate than logical.  Evolutionists don't even defend &quot;Darwinism&quot; anymore, as it's an outmoded theory more concerned with cloaking Victorian ideals of imperialism, progress, and even racism in a scientific guise than with evolution as it now stands.  We forget Galileo was hounded not for attacking the Bible, but attacking _Aristotle_, whom the Scholastics, every much as interested in new learning as modern man, had raised to the level of inviolability as evolution (cf Darwinism) is today.  Anyone who challenges the neo-dogma of science is castigated and pilloried -- until he's proven correct by later generations (Darwin, however, was embraced by Victorians, who needed to express it on a social level).  However, trying to combine Holy Writ and evolution simply will not work.  One can say &quot;In the beginning the Big Bang created the heavens and the earth&quot; and one can insert a Prime Mover (Aristotle) if one wants.  But any debate over evolution only leads to inflamed polemics from propagandists on both sides.  Before I became a Christian, I was a well-educated young man who saw holes in evolutionary theory and the fossil record I expected to see filled because I wished to believe the theory;  now, as a Christian, I do not expect them to be filled because I do not wish to believe the theory.  That's the debate, in a nutshell.  The way to solve it is not to combine the two.  Science rides the coat-tails of every fad, as anyone who sees the history of western science from the 1100! s on can see -- Aristotle, Newton, Einstein, all over turning each other, as Einstein's view one day will be overturned as advanced knowledge and more evidence will lead to different theories to explain what we half-perceive.  The August scientists above were like the blind men and the elephant, and posterity will define the elephant differently still. DARWIN'S BLACK BOX is well-meaning, but the  crisis between evolutionists and those who choose not to follow evolution blindly, which has led to a perceived antagonism between science and faith, is not an area for compromise.  It's a battleground a la World War I between sides that demonize their adversaries, not between rational persons open to persuasion.  Anti-evolutionism does not necessarily mean Theism, and Theism does not imply anti-evolutionism in all cases.  But, based on presentable evidence, both sides are based on faith.  If anyone on either side is open-minded enough to view the other's position, this book is a good place to start.  I found,  readable though it is, its attempt to raise a white flag of truce over the clash of dogmas and world-views will only give further ammunition to the combatants who will undoubtedly read it in the light of their particular ideology.  My apologies to the author.  I know he worked very hard on it.y of western science from the 1100! s on can see -- Aristotle, Newton, Einstein, all over turning each other, as Einstein's view one day will be overturned as advanced knowledge and more evidence will lead to different theories to explain what we half-perceive.  The August scientists above were like the blind men and the elephant, and posterity will define the elephant differently still. DARWIN'S BLACK BOX is well-meaning, but the  crisis between evolutionists and those who choose not to follow evolution blindly, which has led to a perceived antagonism between science and faith, is not an area for compromise.  It's a battleground a la World War I between sides that demonize their adversaries, not between rational persons open to persuasion.  Anti-evolutionism does not necessarily mean Theism, and Theism does not imply anti-evolutionism in all cases.  But, based on presentable evidence, both sides are based on faith.  If anyone on either side is open-minded enough to view the other's position, this book is a good place to start.  I found,  readable though it is, its attempt to raise a white flag of truce over the clash of dogmas and world-views will only give further ammunition to the combatants who will undoubtedly read it in the light of their particular ideology.  My apologies to the author.  I know he worked very hard on it.	1998-05-12
