US	52914552	R3LNPFZZA44SF3	081799582X	189816345	Barbarians inside the Gates and Other Controversial Essays (Hoover Institution Press Publication)	Books	5	54	59	N	N	Thought Provoking...As Always	If you're familiar with Thomas Sowell's newspaper column or his earlier books, you'll love this collection of essays from one of the most remarkable thinkers of our time.  As a former economist and professor, Mr. Sowell offers readers a rare perspective on social and political issues.  For him, problems like &quot;scarcity&quot; and the &quot;law of diminishing returns&quot; don't stop when they reach the banks of the Potomac or the professor's lectern.  Many readers will label the author as a conservative.  I describe him as a man who understands how the world works and desperately wants to inject common sense into the public discourse.  The author pulls no punches.  He just tells it like it is.  Where else will you read: &quot;It is used to be said that taxes are the price we pay to live in a civilized society.  Today, taxes are the price we pay so that politicians can buy the votes of those who are feeding at the public trough?&quot;  Not only will you be nodding your head with every bit of wisdom, you'll find yourself laughing with him at the stupidity of our national elites.  No sacred cow of the political left escapes his wrath.  As a reader, I couldn't consume this book fast enough.  If you purchase this book too, you'll be overcome by a similar craving.	2000-09-30
US	52914552	R2XK6NX0MQ2U5L	0684827468	120026029	Completing the Revolution: A Vision for Victory in 2000	Books	3	3	5	N	N	If Only The Vision Would Materialize	Robert Novak's fine book, &quot;Completing the Revolution,&quot; is divided into three sections.  The first part is titled &quot;Republicans in Retreat.&quot;  It documents the curious - and sometimes amusing - history of the Republican Congress.  Mr. Novak asserts that &quot;the revolutionary spirit of 1994,&quot; when the GOP seized control of Congress for the first time in 40 years, &quot;is but a faint memory.&quot;  Instead, the Republican Congress - like the Democratic Congress before it- has become the &quot;incumbent party.&quot;  To use Mr. Novak's analogy, instead of closing down the executive washroom, the GOP leaders - enjoying the privileges of power for the first time - have merely &quot;changed the locks.&quot;  In 1998, the Republican Congress resisted public opinion and impeached a president for the first time in 130 years.  Since losing that ridiculous battle, it is the Congressional Democrats - not the Republicans - who have shaped a very limited legislative agenda.  Mr. Novak makes no attempt to hide his disappointment with this outcome.  The second part of the book, &quot;Ten Things Republicans Can Do To Win in 2000&quot; includes such solid suggestions as cutting taxes and embracing free trade.  The author also makes an excellent case for welcoming religious conservatives into the party as a &quot;force for good.&quot;  Mr. Novak is also a lonely conservative voice on behalf of campaign finance reform.  By defending the corrupt status quo, the Republican Party does itself an immense disservice.  The final section of the book, &quot;Toward Victory&quot; offers a preview of the 2000 presidential election and a fine case on behalf of George W. Bush.  The book, overall, is slim and can be shallow at times.  But it is a nice review of what conservatives can - and should - stand for.	2000-09-30
US	52914552	R31VT30NK26TTU	0472067168	592030558	Empowering Health Care Consumers through Tax Reform	Books	3	8	8	N	N	No Demagoguery, Just Common-Sense Solutions	Health care reform has been a prominent issue in this year's presidential  election and will be a top priority for the next administration.  In spite  of the campaign rhetoric, however, a political consensus armed with  concrete solutions has remained elusive.  The largest push for health care  reform has come from liberal Democrats.  They claim that working Americans  fork over too much money to a health care system that is low in quality and  leaves too many out in the cold.  To some extent, these critics are  correct.  Health care costs have been surging for years and there is a  disturbing number of Americans who do not have insurance.  These trends are  especially alarming with the graying of the Baby Boom generation.   Unfortunately, the shortcomings of our health system have become an excuse  for more government intervention in the economy.  Nearly all of the reform  proposals in Washington insist on tighter government control over an  industry which wields the power of life and death - literally.  The new  power would then rest in bureaucracies possessing the compassion of the IRS  and the efficiency of the post office.   For those Americans who support  reform but suspect the ability of Washington, this book will raise your  conscience and offer real solutions.  The theme is that shortcomings in our  health care system do not imply that the private sector can not work in  this part of the economy.  The authors point out that, surprisingly, the  private market has never been given a chance to work here.  Health care is  actually the most regulated industry in America.  The authors suggest that  instead of imposing more regulation and adding more levels of bureaucracy,  policymakers should take a more original approach.  They recommend  reforming the tax code by injecting an ounce of capitalism and a pound of  reality to the system.  One specific reform would be to eliminate the  peculiar rule that employer contributions to group health insurance doesn't  count as taxable income for employees.  This tax ruling, an historical  accident arising out of World War II, has created a strong incentive for  the private health insurance market to be organized around employment-based  groups.  This preference, according to the authors, is at the root of the  many of our problems.  The policy distorts the health care marketplace.  It  undermines cost consciousness by disguising the true cost of medical care.   Insufficient health care is subsidized.  Further, the current law  discriminates against the self-employed, the unemployed, and those whose  employers don't offer health insurance.  This subsidy, worth close to $100  billion a year, is highly regressive: It provides a generous subsidy for  the chief executive of a company and little for a young couple struggling  to make ends meets.  The authors suggest that the $100 billion should be  returned immediately to citizens in the form of a tax credit, deduction, or  voucher for purchasing health insurance.  By giving consumers more direct  control over their health coverage, it would enable them to force change  through the market rather through the political system.  This reform would  give individuals more choice and create new incentives for a  consumer-driven market that is more efficient and more dignified.  Of  course, eliminating the employer subsidy and other reforms aren't a  panacea.  There are trade-offs involved; some Americans may lose privileges  while others gain.  But the authors are confident that these policy reforms  would cut costs and increase coverage while also removing Washington from  another area where it doesn't belong.  Clearly, public education is needed.   The stalemate over the issue will not continue indefinitely.  Either  Washington will create more meddlesome and burdensome federal health  programs or it will fix the distortions in the private market, as advocated  in this book.  In this life-and-death matter, the political judgement is  much in doubt.	2000-09-06
US	52914552	RU8NG1XDXMANG	0465037380	952919077	Knowledge And Decisions	Books	4	172	179	N	N	Another Must-Read From Thomas Sowell	Thomas Sowell has called &quot;Knowledge &amp; Decisions&quot; his &quot;most important and comprehensive work.&quot;  After completing the  book, it nearly impossible to disagree.  There are two themes in Mr.  Sowell's book.  First, knowledge is not a &quot;free good.&quot;  Knowledge  has a cost that isn't universally shared.  This truth has important  implications.  In Mr. Sowell's opinion, capitalism uses knowledge more  efficiently and directly than other economic systems.  Unfortunately, the  link between knowledge and capitalism is also a great political  vulnerability.  The public can get the economic benefits of capitalism  without understanding the economic process.  Politicians can exploit  economic shortcomings into attacks on the economic process.  Every  perceived problem - whatever its reality - calls for a political  &quot;solution.&quot;  These political &quot;solutions,&quot; however,  always give power to those who are removed from the knowledge and feedback  mechanisms that undergird real &quot;solutions.&quot;  Not long ago, for  example, the First Lady entrusted herself to radically reform the nation's  health care industry.  The fact she had no medical training or hadn't even  run a drugstore didn't keep her efforts from nearly succeeding.  Let us now  understand Sowell's second conclusion:  When making decisions, the question  &quot;who makes the decisions?&quot; is just as important as what gets  decided.  Most discussion of various issues - from education to health care  - overlooks the crucial fact that the most basic decision is WHO makes the  decision, under what constraints, and subject to what feedback mechanisms.  The great strength of the American Constitution is its system of  &quot;checks and balances&quot; and &quot;separation of powers.&quot;  Here, decisions are made by scores of actors who check each others'  ambition.  This is different from stating that better decisions will be  made when we replace &quot;the bad guys&quot; with &quot;the good  guys.&quot;  When citizens choose to leave power in fewer and fewer hands  and then have that power wielded by men who are further and further removed  from real life, they are paving the road to despotism.  Every citizen wants  a better school system for their kids and a better health care system for  their parents.  But who will wield this power?  Washington or local school  boards?  Who has more expertise on life-or-death matters?  Bureaucrats or  doctors?  Constitutional democracy is a new - and indeed, fragile - form of  government.  As citizens who lived under Hitler's Germany or Peron's  Argentina can attest to, it is easy to give up freedom and hard to get it  back.  In the second half of Mr. Sowell's book, he documents some  disturbing trends in law and politics.  These trends run contrary to the  two points of Mr. Sowell's book.  First published in 1980, there has been a  lot of good news since then.  Voters are starting to understand the costs  of knowledge and the limits of political decision-making.  But there is  always the temptation to go back to the past.  Mr. Sowell's book is an  excellent lesson in why we must never travel that path again.	2000-09-02
US	52914552	R1GIF61HLTJG63	0684864622	999961074	The Quest for Cosmic Justice	Books	5	142	151	N	N	A good summary of a misguided ideology	Thomas Sowell's &quot;The Quest For Cosmic Justice&quot; is a stab in the heart of left-wing politics.  Early in his book, the author makes a clear  distinction between traditional ideas of justice and what Mr. Sowell  describes as &quot;cosmic justice.&quot;  Traditional justice is  process-oriented.  Everyone plays by the same rules and is judged by the  same standards.  It is a system that &quot;flesh and bone&quot; human  beings can live under.  Cosmic justice, on the other hand, means providing  everyone with equal prospects of success.  This concept of  &quot;fairness,&quot; as morally spurious as it is, becomes outright  dangerous when it requires third parties to wield arbitrary power to  override rules and control outcomes.  These third parties - found in  government, universities, the media, and the courts - see a nation  desperately in need of cosmic justice.  The gap between the rich and poor  is supposedly growing, threatening our economic future.  The so-called  &quot;earnings gap&quot; between men and women is supposedly the child of a  sexist society.  Police brutality is becoming a high-tech version of  lynching.  And so on.  Of course, many of these &quot;problems&quot;  disappear when confronted with real-world experience and statistical  evidence.  Creating government &quot;solutions&quot; to these  &quot;problems&quot; only entrusts more and more power in the hands of  people further and further removed from the real world.  To allow any  government authority to determine how much money you receive for your work  is not only a distortion of the economic process but is a dehumanizing  attempt in reducing everyone to political clients.  Government price  controls on food, supposed to help the poor, have led to widespread hunger  in countries around the world.  Undermining law enforcement because of its  perceived unfairness to minorities have led to high crime rates which hurt  minorities most of all.  The passion for equality - which somehow became  twisted into racial preferences - has led to a divorce of performance and  reward, which is to say a divorce between incentive and behavior - perhaps  the most crucial foundation of Western civilization.  Yet theories of  cosmic justice and the public policy that springs from them are unlikely to  be re-examined.  Why should they be re-examined when they permit its  advocates to feel morally superior to everyone else?  Meanwhile, those who  believe in systematic processes - the marketplace, traditional values,  constitutional law (namely, most Americans) are suspected.  Mr. Sowell's  book is an excellent indictment of &quot;cosmic justice&quot; and an  excellent defense of traditional ideas of process and the rule of law.   Unfortunately, those who should read this book most will probably read it  least.	2000-09-02
US	52914552	R3GU3BDX8M49P	0895263440	404916259	The Way the World Works (Gateway Contemporary)	Books	5	112	122	N	N	Twenty Years Later, Wanniski Has Been Justified	&quot;The Way The World Works&quot; is a brilliant andprovocative book that illuminates the reader on a full range of political, economic, and social issues.  Mr. Wanniski alerts us to what he describes as &quot;the global electorate.&quot; The author sees human civilization as an unfolding story where societies find the best political and economic systems through a trial and error process. This process, which continues through the present, is largely progressive.  &quot;The global electorate&quot; has rewarded systems that work, like American democracy, and dissolved systems that don't work like Soviet communism.  History moves forward to suit the needs of its people.  When Mr. Wanniski wrote this book in the late 1970s, such ideas as &quot;historical progress&quot; seemed out-of-date. Assertions of Western superiority over other political systems seemed naive.  After all, the Communist empire was expanding into remote corners of the globe like Afghanistan and Nicaragua while the United States and Europe sputtered economically and splintered socially.  But from his home in New Jersey, Mr. Wanniski anticipated the revival of the West.  Led by Ronald Reagan and Margaret Thatcher, the capitalist democracies rediscovered the secrets of their success - classical &quot;supply-side&quot; economics.  Much of the book articulates current economic issues through the prism of supply-side economics. Mr. Wanniski offers keen insight into the origins of the Great Depression and the causes behind the oil price surge of the 1970s. You may be surprised.  He is especially persuasive in articulating the need for tax cuts.  Mr. Wanniski argues that tax cuts pay for themselves by encouraging more entrepreneurship, unleashing more economic growth, and thus funneling more tax revenue into the Treasury.  For example, after World War I, the U.S.  and Britain took different approaches in shifting from a wartime to a peacetime economy.  The U.S. slashed its tax rates and prospered during the1920s while Britain kept its rate high and remained stuck in Depression.  Britain never really corrected its mistake and spent most of the century in retreat as a world power.  Mr. Wanniski sees tax policy as the key intangible in explaining why some Third World nations have prospered since decolonization whereas others have regressed. The U.S., in particular, was ahead of the curve until the late 1960s when Washington abandoned classical economics for Keynesianism.  &quot;Tax-and-spend&quot; policies, designed to spark consumer-driven demand, only undercut the private economy.  When taxes were raised, counter- intuitively, tax revenues fell.  By painfully experiencing the shortcomings of Keynesianism during the 1970s, the U.S.  stumbled into the success of the 1980s.  Federal revenues doubled in the 1980s even as tax rates held constant.  The new Western dynamism could not be ignored by citizens in socialist countries.  By decade's end, communist dictatorships in Europe and Asia were throwing in the towel.  A new chapter in the story of &quot;the global electorate&quot; is just beginning.  One of the most intriguing points in Mr. Wanniski's book is that politics has been absolutely crucial to economic development.  A nation's prosperity rests in large part, he contends, on the wisdom on its political leaders.  This may be a lot for some conservatives to swallow but the author documents his points thoroughly and convincingly.  If Mr. Wanniski is correct, then the next presidential election becomes even more significant.  Is the current prosperity the handiwork of a) President Clinton, b) the Republican Congress, c) both, or d) none of the above.  The answer, even now, isn't clear.  But if the next president ignores &quot;the global electorate&quot; and strays from the supply-side course, the citizens will eventually correct their error in time - just like they did by dissolving Keynesianism in the 1980s.  According to this book, we will collectively get where we need to go.  Whether we reach our ultimate destination peacefully and rapidly, or on the other hand - painfully and slowly, is the question before us.	2000-08-28
US	52914552	R3TI705KBMCHK6	0465005233	364188605	Rudy! An Investigative Biography Of Rudolph Giuliani	Books	2	28	47	N	N	Sorry, But I'm Not Persuaded	By any standard, Wayne Barrett's &quot;investigate biography&quot; of Rudy Giuliani is an incredible disappointment.  After weaving my way through  this political hit job, I have a hard time finding anything positive to  write about it.  In retrospect, I should have realized that this would be a  whiny smear campaign when I first saw the book's cover.  The book's title  is &quot;Rudy!  An Investigative Biography of Rudy Giuliani.&quot;  This  gives the impression that the author has done some hard-nosed investigative  work that will alter the reader's impression of the protagonist.  After 500  pages of political fury, we only have two tidbits of gossip to satisfy our  appetite.  First, Giuliani's father was briefly imprisoned for robbery a  decade before the mayor's birth.  Second, Dear Old Dad also hung around  some shady mafioso characters.  Some investigation!  If every person is  disqualified by the indiscretions of their relatives, every public figure  from Ronald Regan to Bill Clinton, from Oprah Winfrey to Steffi Graf, would  be forced into early retirement.  This is journalistic guilt-by-association  at its worst.  And sadly, these are the worst accusations that Mr. Barrett  can hurl at the mayor.  But this book claims to be more than an indictment  of Giuliani's family.  In the introduction, Mr. Barrett reveals far more  about himself than he ever does about Mayor Giuliani.  The author claims  that he and Rudy were once good friends but &quot;when he left law  enforcement for politics, our relationship changed.  I never had another  meal with him...I became more and more critical.&quot;  After only seven  paragraphs, what purports to be an objective biography loses all of its  credibility.  &quot;The book clearly has a point of view,&quot; writes  Barrett.  Sadly, that's about the only thing he DOES get right in the book.   Mr. Barrett could have written about the political and social changes that  have swept New York City in the 1990s and Mayor Giuliani'simportant role  in them.  But that would be too academically serious and too damning to his  liberal ideology.  Instead, according to Barrett, &quot;race is at the  heart of Rudy's story.&quot;  This comment is absolutely outrageous.  As a  young man, Mayor Giuliani was a strong supporter of the civil rights  movement and no one - not even Mr. Barrett himself - has claimed that Rudy  is a racist.  The only race crime that Giuliani has committed, in the  establishment's eyes, is that as a white man he beat David Dinkins, an  African-American, in the 1993 mayoral election.  Years later, following a  dramatic cut in the city's crime rate, Mayor Giuliani was asked for his  most important legacy regarding the black community.  His answer: more of  them were alive.  In other words, the 1,000-1,5000 fewer deaths of  African-Americans during his tenure is a mark of his service.  This was  denounced as an insensitive and even racist comment by liberal ideologues  like Mr. Barrett.  Why?  The mayor believes that the actually lives of  African-Americans is more important than symbolic political acts like  paying homage to Al Sharpton or repeating the old script of supporting  affirmative action.  That comment more than anything should reveal the  logic of New York's liberal establishment: the actual lives of  African-American children are disposable in comparsion to the political  theatrics that win votes on Election Day.  Letting liberals feel good about  how virtuous they are is more important than good public policy.  And under  Mayor Giuliani, New Yorkers have been the beneficiaries of good public  policy.  The crime rate is down more than 60% since 1993, the streets are  cleaner and safer, budget deficits have turned into surpluses, and there is  a new optimism regarding the city's future.  Mr. Barrett wants New Yorkers  and others to believe that the crime drop is a mirage, that the city isn't  cleaner or better-run.  As a resident of New York, I'm not buying it.  And  neither should you.  There's nothing more maddening for an ideologue that  the success of a politician with whom he disagrees.  Mr. Barrett could have  written a book ten times its length and it still wouldn't convince anyone  of anything.  I'm just disappointed that I wasted my time.  Don't waste  yours.	2000-08-06
US	52914552	R14PW1TPYF9M63	0688062695	296255167	Civil Rights: Rhetoric or Reality?	Books	4	79	86	N	N	An Outstanding Perspective On A Sensitive Subject	Thomas Sowell is one of the most articulate and intelligent authors today.  His books are well-researched, politically unconventional, and highly  persuasive.  In this work, Mr. Sowell confronts the &quot;rhetoric&quot; of  the civil rights establishment and contrasts it with the  &quot;reality&quot; of American society and American law.  The liberal  establishment, according to Mr. Sowell,  made a key blunder in the late  1960s.  After the civil rights revolution became public policy, many  assumed that there would be &quot;statistical equality&quot; between  whites, blacks, Hispanics, and Asians in all categories from family income  levels to loan-acceptance rates.  Needless to say, this did not happen  during the heady days of the civil rights revolution.  Even in the year  2000, this equality still has yet to occur.  The only explanation,  according to activists, is systematic racism.  It would be nearly  impossible for Americans to believe that - nearly 50 years after the Brown  decision - we still live in a systemically racist society.  But that is  precisely the rhetoric that is force-fed to the American public.  Mr.  Sowell, on the other hand, states that discrimination does not explain the  statistical variance.  For example, Asian-Americans outperform  Anglo-Americans on virtually everything from SAT scores to PhDs.  Surely no  one would claim that American society discriminates against whites in favor  of Asians.  We must take other factors into account if we are to explain  this mystery.  Family size, age, educational courses chosen, and savings  rates are just some of the myriad ways that our races distinguish  themselves.  When we control these factors, there is absolutely no  divergence between the races.  An African-American male and an  Asian-American male of the same age, with the same education, in the same  occupational field earn the same amount of money.  The same is true of  Hispanic men and white men.  Incredibly, these statistics have beenconsistent since the 1960s when America was still supposedly a  &quot;racist&quot; country.  Of course, there were racists in the 1960s  just like there are racists today.  But Mr. Sowell points out that our  nation is - contrary to the conventional wisdom- remarkably color-blind.   This would shock most Americans initially but is largely consistent with  daily experience.  The vast majority of Americans are not racist and would  resist the suggestion that they are secretly prejudiced.  Mr. Sowell's  studies reflect this hidden truth.  The author also makes important points  concerning the feminist movement.  Once you control for all other factors,  a man and woman earned the same income during the 1960s, even before the  feminist movement.  Men and women still earn the same paycheck today, even  amidst the whirlwind concerning &quot;pay inequality.&quot;  If there is a  moral to Mr. Sowell's story it is that the original civil rights movement  has become a hideous deformation of itself.  The original movement was  fought for the right reasons - equality before the law - and was remarkably  successful as these statistics reveal.  But - like most revolutions - this  one didn't know when to quit.  The political goal of &quot;equality of  opportunity&quot; became perverted into &quot;equality of results.&quot;   The prescription of affirmative action, largely unnecessary, has only  alienated the vast white majority and did nothing to close the  quality-of-life gap between whites and blacks (crime, drug use,  single-parent families, etc.)  On the other hand, it has certainly fattened  the wallets and enhanced the profiles of public figures who make a healthy  living denouncing the racism of American institutions, bullying private  corporations, and winning elections.  In their hearts, most Americans -  white, black, Asian, and Hispanic - suspect that these activists are wrong.   This book will solidify their conclusions and renew their pride in our  multicultural and progressive society.	2000-08-06
US	52914552	R2WTF9GK95W24M	084768525X	767303758	Tory Radicalism	Books	3	1	4	N	N	A fair portrait of modern British politics	I came into this book with a limited background in British politics.  Thanks to Professor Reitan, I now have a more complete perspective on America's closest ally.  In the preface, the author claims that the  Conservative ministries of Margaret Thatcher and John Major (1979-1997)  were nothing short of a political revolution.  After over 200 pages, the  professor's point is well-proven.  When Mrs. Thatcher took office at the  close of the 1970s, the socialist consensus was in shambles.  The British  economy was not only overtaxed, overregulated, and unproductive but it was  at the mercy of powerful and militaristic labor unions.  Thatcher was the  first Western leader to break with the socialist past, heralding the rise  of not only Ronald Reagan and Helmut Kohl but even Mikhail Gorbachev and  Deng Xiaoping.  Thatcher reapplied conservative principles to British  government.  She spurred the private sector by cutting taxes and government  spending, she doused the threat of inflation with a strict money supply,  and she privatized key British industries.  These policies were continued  and strengthened by her successor, John Major.  When the Labour Party  returned to power in 1997, the Conservative consensus was firmly entrenched  in British culture.  The new Prime Minister, Tony Blair, could only promise  to tweak the system, not reshape it.  Professor Reitan gives an extremely  fair and concise account of this Conservative transformation.  He presents  the reader with both the positive and negative aspects of Conservative rule  but isn't afraid to remark that - all things considered - &quot;Tory  Radicalism&quot; was remarkably successful.  When Thatcher left office in  1990, it was hard to prove that the return to conservatism had been a  political or economic success.  Economic growth - especially in the job  sector - was marginal and many social indices like crime and drug use -  remained high.  But it is important to remember that is far easier to move  from acapitalist to a socialist economy than vice versa (just see the  Soviet Union, for example).  To restart the engines of capitalism, you have  to do more than just destroy political interest groups and bloated  bureaucracies who have a stake in the status quo.  You must encourage  private citizens to think freely and responsibly again; they need to rely  less on a &quot;Nanny State&quot; and start to think creatively, engage in  risk-taking, and work hard.  Most importantly, to switch from socialism to  capitalism, you need a strong leader who won't reverse course and will see  the project through.  Great Britain, with Margaret Thatcher at the helm,  was fortunate to meet that third requirement.  It is true that the 1980s  were a painful decade for many but by the mid-1990s - with the conservative  revolution largely complete - Britain was in an admirable position.  Not  only do the British have the healthiest economy in Europe but arguably the  strongest economy in the world following the United States.  Today, the two  capitalist superpowers, the US and Britain, enjoy low unemployment, even  lower inflation, budget surpluses, and a dynamic private sector spurred by  globalization and information technology.  For Britain, this is largely a  product of Thatcher and Major (and in the US, of Ronald Reagan).  In 1980,  the success of Britain and the US was uncertain, even unlikely.  It took a  reapplication of conservative principles and bold leadership to make it  happen.  Is it a coincidence that the economies that underwent a  Conservative transformation earliest and most completely (the US and  Britain) are now the world's economic leaders?  It is absolutely no  coincidence.  Other European nations that are far more trapped in the  entropy of socialism (like France and Italy) face a painful future unless  they take bold action soon.  Where is the French version of Thatcher?   Where is the Italian version of Reagan?  Those nations are still waiting.   In the meantime, the challenge for the US and Britain is to retain a good  memory; to not let the mistaken ideologies of the past return in new and  more &quot;compassionate&quot; forms.  Professor Reitan's important new  book will show you why.	2000-07-29
US	52914552	RFMLSVL9QZME6	1893554104	849728786	The Future Once Happened Here: New York, D.C., L.A., and the Fate of America's Big Cities	Books	4	33	35	N	N	The truth can hurt	This is a story - a classic tragedy, if you will.  The rise of the big cities.  The fall of the big cities.  And finally, the promise of their redemption.  Fred Siegel's book identifies the source of urban America's  decline: their enthusiastic embrace of Sixties Liberalism, not only in  personal behavior but as public policy.  In 1965, America was in the midst  of a midlife crisis.  Strong and self-rghteous for so long, the country  began to entangle itself in self-doubt.  The origins could be tracked to  the original Civil Rights Movement which rightfully forced middle-class  America to confront their own hypocricy and prejudice.  The aims of the  original Civil Rights leaders was not to overthrow American society.   Rather, it was to demand that we enforce our Constitutional laws and stop  mocking the principles in the Declaration of the Independence.  Men like  Dr. King understood the promise and beauty of America.  The last thing they  wanted to do was undermine it.  But five days after President Johnson  signed the Voting Rights Act of 1965, Los Angeles erupted in a race riot.   Large sections of Watts were burned to the ground and dozens were killed.   In 1967 and 1968, deadly race riots broke out in Washington, Cleveland,  Detroit, and other urban centers.  Middle class families who lived in the  city couldn't understand what was happening.  Many of them fled to the  suburbs; the so-called &quot;white flight.&quot;  But most of them stayed -  at least initially.  At the end of the 1960s, the question that urban  leaders faced, writes Siegel, was &quot;how do we deal with the twin  problems of race and poverty?&quot;  One option was to stick with the past  solution of cultural assimilation and private sector advancement.  But that  wasn't good enough anymore.  Instead, a combination of intellectuals,  minority activists, big-spending pols, and &quot;compassionate&quot; voters  took a large and unprecedented gamble.  The millions of black families that  had crowded into northern cities since World War II would be the guinea  pigs in a great liberal experiment.  Blacks and other racial minorities  would no longer be encouraged to assimilate into American society.   Afterall, the middle-class lifestyle was &quot;sick&quot; and  &quot;guilty.&quot;  In a complete reversal of Dr. King's dream, blacks  would be expected to create their own norms, values, and institutions.   While this may seem to be a perverse triumph of individualism, it was a  unique form; it would be what Siegel labels &quot;dependent  individualism.&quot;  In other words, while city residents would be  expected to unshackle themselves of moral restraints, they would also do it  at taxpayer expense.  Poverty, the liberal activists charged, was a problem  of money - people didn't have enough of it.  It some cases that was true.   But in other cases it wasn't true.  Unfortunately, welfare payments came to  subsidize a whole dysfunctional subculture.  In the 1970s and 1980s, the  &quot;riot ideology&quot; impregnated a large majority of city voters.   Even though the large cities were in an inexplicable decline, government  leaders insisted that the road to Utopia could be reached with even more  liberal policies: ever larger &quot;social programs&quot; including job  training, public housing, and drug treatment.  And even looser moral  standards including drug users and prostitutes crowding city parks and  aggressive panhandlers harassing city streets.  In 1992, after the  trillion-dollar &quot;War on Poverty&quot; and a crass civil culture that  had dismissed every moral restraint as a need for therapy, Los Angeles  erupted into violence again.  Siegel says that these riots, which were even  deadlier than the Watts upheaval of 1965, fundamentally discredited urban  liberalism.  After reading his book, the only question the reader can ask  is: &quot;What took so long?&quot;  In the late 1990s, mayors like Rudy  Giuliani of New York and Richard Riordan in LosAngeles have cut crime and  the size of the Welfare State.  They've proven to be very popular and  successful.  But resistance to their policies remain, especially in the  intellectual class.  In recent years, the cities have experienced an  &quot;Indian summer.&quot;  Whether this climate will mature into a  &quot;new spring&quot; is far from certain.  An engaged citizenry, alerted  to the historical mistakes of liberalism but still enchanted by its  romanticism, hold the key to our future.	2000-07-29
US	52914552	R2VXT8UGJ9VPV7	0688174922	152340801	Rudy Giuliani: Emperor of the City	Books	4	7	23	N	N	A successful politician introduced by a successful author	If you're from New York City and you track city politics, then you're certainly familiar with Andrew Kirtzman.  Kirtzman, who is a political reporter for New York 1 News, demonstrates an impressive grasp of both  urban politics and personal drama with his first book, &quot;Rudy Giuliani:  Emperor of the City.&quot;  The book commences with Giuliani's unsuccessful  race for mayor in 1989 and concludes with his stunning decision to withdraw  from the U.S. Senate race just months ago.  In that ten-year span, Kirtzman  takes us through a roller-coaster ride of New York history.  On November 7,  1989 New Yorkers elected David Dinkins as its 106th mayor over Rudy  Giuliani.  Two days later the Berlin Wall fell.  Half a world a way, East  Germans were awakening to the failure and misery of socialism. New Yorkers,  it seemed, still didn't get it.  The Dinkins era confirmed what most New  Yorkers already feared: the City was an unmanageable wasteland.   Tax-and-spend budgets.  Racial demagoguery.  Criminals ruling the streets.   Mass incivility.  In 1993, however, after four years of misrule, the City  had a chance to reverse its mistake.  The mayoral election pitted Dinkins  and Giuliani against each other once again.   This time, the former federal  prosecutor triumphed.  On that same day, New Jersey voters sent  tax-and-spend Governor Jim Florio packing as well.  Quietly, Northeast  voters were heralding the Republican Revolution of 1994.  The late 1990s  would see the whole nation turn its back on liberalism.  Rudy Giuliani was  the first and most able practitioner of this New Politics.  His first city  budget combined spending cuts with tax cuts.  For the first time in recent  memory, New York would spend less money the next year than it did the  previous year.  The message to the business community was equally clear:  Stay!  We want you here and we'll create an environment where you can  thrive.  Giuliani challenged the bureaucracies and their union chiefs and  rolledpast them.  He broke up the Mob and tightened the requirements for  welfare.  Most importantly, he teamed with Police Chief Bill Bratton in a  new, tougher approach to crime-fighting.  The results after just four years  were staggering: crime in the city had been cut in half, hundreds of  thousands of people had moved from the welfare rolls to the private sector,  school test scores went up, annual budget surpluses became surpluses.  In  1997, New York voters overwhelming re-elected &quot;Hizzonor.&quot;  Since  then, however, Rudy hasn't led such a charmed life.  The city's  &quot;quality of life&quot; statistics are still incredibly impressive.   But his reputation has been tarnished by both his broken marriage and some  police misconduct cases.  The 1999 police shooting of Amadou Diallo and the  later killing of Patrick Dorismond were highly unfortunate but they were  also accidents.  Giuliani's critics conveniently forget that under Rudy,  police murder has fallen in half from the &quot;compassionate&quot; days of  the Dinkins administration.  When the ball dropped in Times Square on New  Years Day 2000, New York was once again the capital of the world.  The man  who deserves most of the credit is Rudy Giuliani.  No question about it.   He may not win a personality contest.  But he doesn't have to.  He is  simply the most successful mayor in New York City history and one of the  most impressive politicians in the nation today.  What must disturb New  York residents is: Who will replace Rudy?  He is required by law to step  down as mayor in 2001.  Will New Yorkers elect a man, who in his rush to  show &quot;compassion,&quot; dismantle Rudy Giuliani's legacy?  Will the  crime laws be relaxed?  Will the welfare requirements be eased?  Will the  unions return to their glory?  The answer, sadly, is &quot;Most  likely.&quot;  Rudy Giuliani is an awesome mayor but every great leader  must groom a successor who will ensure his legacy.  In this one crucial  category, Giuliani has proved to be mortal.  But make no mistake: The Big  Apple is Back  -- thanks to Rudy Giuliani.	2000-07-17
US	52914552	R3H0LB7RTGHZ9M	0385499345	475272008	The Lexus and the Olive Tree: Understanding Globalization	Books	5	2	4	N	N	Tom Friedman was born to write	Like his earlier book, &quot;From Beirut to Jerusalem,&quot; Tom Friedman displays a mastery over his subject like few authors.  In &quot;The Lexus and the Olive Tree,&quot; the conquered subject material is economic  globalization.  What makes Mr. Friedman such a unique voice on this topic  is his career as a foreign affairs columnist for the New York Times.   Over  the past few years, Mr. Friedman has traveled the world many times over,  collecting first-hand accounts of how globalization works, who benefits  from it, and its multiple consequences.  His understanding of this issue  radiates through scores of personal narratives and anecdotes which not only  raise the reader's awareness but seriously educate him on a subject of  immense importance.  At the beginning and conclusion of his book, Mr.  Friedman claims that he is no an advocate of globalization, per se.  I do  not doubt the author's sincerity when stating this belief.  The balance of  information, however, tilts heavily in favor of globalization.  That is  because, in sum, globalization has been a largely positive development.  In  the last two decades, many Third World governments have relaxed the grip  they possessed on their nations' economies and opened themselves to the  ideas and industry of the West.  As a result, these nations have enjoyed an  unprecedented explosion of wealth.  Many of them are experimenting with  political democracy for the first time as well.  That is not a coincidence.   But the impact of globalization extends far beyond Seoul, Bangkok, and  Mexico City.  The United States has also been a prime beneficiary of  globalization.  The growth of world trade, combined with the adaption of  information technologies, has been responsible for America's economic  resurgence in the last decade.  Near the end of the book, however, the  author starts to wax sentimental.  He expresses his fear that in this burst  of affluence we will lose our &quot;olive trees&quot; - our communities,  ourtraditions, our values.  Mr. Friedman need not worry.  What makes  capitalism so revolutionary is not that it destroys &quot;olive  trees.&quot;  Rather, it creates new &quot;olive trees&quot; of our own  free choice.  We choose our community; we choose our faith.  It is no  coincidence that the while the United States is the greatest engine of  capitalism, it is also one of the world's most religious countries.  And it  is not just a diverse faith - Protestants, Catholics, Jews, Muslims - but  an intensely personal faith where people choose to make God a central part  of their daily life.  I also have to disagree with Mr. Friedman on one  final point.  I do not share his view that the globalization process is  inevitable.  In the early 1960s, the twin pillars of democracy and  free-market capitalism had reached an incredible level of success and  popular acceptance.  Within a few years, however, national leaders managed  to undermine both systems.  Welfare crippled the national economy while  affirmative action created needless animosity between the races.  As we  enter the twenty-first century - and as the challenges to globalization  mount - we must not go back to the past.  We must not reverse the process  that gave us this burst of wealth and freedom out of some misplaced guilt.   Our sympathy for the poor can not delude us into stripping them of their  sole opportunity for advancement.  The recent anarchist demonstrations in  Seattle and Washington should give us pause.  Hopefully those protestors  will read Tom Friedman's fine book and take a more informed perspective.	2000-07-08
US	52914552	R2693RT6O29O9T	0691001146	498121439	Capitalism, Democracy, and Ralph's Pretty Good Grocery.	Books	5	15	17	N	N	This book should be in every poly sci classroom	If a friend told me that he was flying to a deserted island in the South Pacific to start a new country, first I would tell him he was crazy.  Next, I would give him this book, insist that he read it, and use it as a  blueprint for a successful society.  Mr. Mueller's book is an excellent  defense of both capitalism and democracy, the twin pillars of our American  society.  The author points out that while neither system is perfect, both  are superior to any other economic method or political institution.  His  book is filled with interesting facts and fascinating insights.  For  example, Mr. Mueller insists that capitalism, far from extinguishing  virtue, actually encourages it.  This is because businessmen who treat  their customers and co-workers with fairness and compassion have an  economic advantage over their brooding colleagues.  This seems  counterintuitive but is born out by evidence.  Service was especially poor  and rude in former communist countries.  Today, American companies from  McDonald's to K-Mart, much maligned by the press, are teaching benevolent  business practices to Third World nations from Africa to the Orient.  Mr.  Mueller also makes the interesting point that economics is approaching a  level of sophistication similar to medicine at the turn of the twentieth  century.  Today, for the first time ever, economists can offer truly  effective remedies for policy makers.  Such a development, if true,  promises an era of truly spectacular growth.  The author also makes the  sobering point that capitalism is a poor tonic for increasing personal  happiness.  Money has never substituted for family, faith, and meaningful  work.  Nor will it in the future.  When it comes to democracy, Mr. Mueller  believes that we expect too much from our political process.  The 1994  health care debate, to some commentators, is an example of our failed  democracy.  In contrast, Mr. Mueller suggests that this episode proves the  resiliency of our institutions.  Legislation was proposed and debated,  constituencies were mobilized and addressed, and the outcome was largely  favorable.  Democracy can be messy but it is incredibly responsive and  self-correcting.  It is the only political system that provides the average  citizen with the instruments of political power.  As more and more nations  embrace the virtue of capitalism and democracy, colossal progress can be  made in alleviating poverty, ensuring human rights, and achieving  self-actualization.  There is no realistic alternative to democracy or  capitalism on the horizon.  Nor should we want one.	2000-07-01
US	52914552	R1Z2ZVNFQEF6P0	0684832461	608928337	Kennedy and Nixon: The Rivalry That Shaped Postwar America	Books	4	10	11	N	N	25 Years of History Becomes One Personal Rivalry	I am very impressed with Chris Matthews's narrative on the political careers of John F. Kennedy and Richard Nixon.  His book is well-researched, well-written, and his conclusions are well-proven.  At first, I was  suspicious of Mr. Matthews's claim that their jousting was &quot;the  rivalry that shaped postwar America.&quot;  But in completing the book, I  can appreciate that Kennedy and Nixon were the American version of Disraeli  and Gladstone.  They both served in the South Pacific during World War II  and were elected to Congress in the same year, 1946.  Nixon ran as a  &quot;pragmatic liberal.&quot;  Kennedy ran as a &quot;fighting  conservative.&quot;  Excuse me?  But beneath the contradictory rhetoric lay  an ideological similarity: a passionate hate of communism and a deep  suspicion of the New Deal, Eastern Establishment.  American leaders during  the Cold War, they rallied their nation against Communist threats at home  and abroad.  They further overthrew the old Washington rules of political  cordiality and fairness.  To substitute, the first leaders of the G.I.  Generation created a winner-take-all political culture that forever changed  the Beltway.  Kennedy started as the more ruthless pol.  His early  political career was filled with charges of bribery, vote-stealing, and  other low-ball maneuvers.  Nixon, of course, would not be outdone.  His  relentless pursuit of Alger Hiss gave him his first political break and  cemented his fear that the Elite was out to break him.  Similar in  political style and ideology, Kennedy and Nixon became genuine friends in  the 1950s.  This surprised me but Mr. Matthews documents this point  prodigiously.  Nixon was invited to the Kennedy wedding in 1953.  When  Kennedy was near death in 1954, Nixon was in tears.  &quot;Oh God, don't  let him die.&quot;  Jackie Kennedy told friends that Jack admired Nixon  more than any other man he knew.  What forever changed the relationship was  the 1960 presidential election.  Kennedy beat Nixon by an incredibly narrow  margin and the loser was forever convinced that the election was stolen.   Mr. Matthews emphasizes the role of &quot;imagery&quot; in the 1960  campaign.  All things being equal, Nixon should have topped Kennedy that  year.  But Kennedy's good looks and aristocratic style contrasted favorably  with Nixon's common looks and straight talk.  When Kennedy was  assassinated, the manufactured mythology of &quot;Camelot&quot; masked an  average presidency.  When Nixon was finally elected president in 1968, it  was the ideal of Camelot that haunted him throughout his term.  No matter  what Nixon did, he could never measure up to Kennedy in the eyes of the  American people.  The Eastern Establishment viewed Nixon especially  distastefully; they saw him as an illegitimate president.  Nixon knew that  he was in a constant struggle against the liberals who carried the torch  for Camelot.  Nixon was determined to use every weapon in his arsenal to  save himself and his presidency - constitution de damned.  Mr. Matthews is  especially fluent in describing the step-by-step political destruction of  Richard Nixon.  The Kennedy-Nixon rivalry ends in 1974 with Nixon's  resignation in disgrace.  Kennedy had bested Nixon one last time.  But in a  true sense, both men were equal winners.  It was their Cold War zealotry  and political ruthlessness that defined Washington after 1960.  Our  communist-free world is largely their child.  Our cynical political culture  is largely their creature too.  For better and for worse.	2000-07-01
US	52914552	R2T7K7TDPKGSNP	0385499345	475272008	The Lexus and the Olive Tree: Understanding Globalization	Books	5	0	3	N	N	Tom Friedman was born to write	Like his earlier book, &quot;From Beirut to Jerusalem,&quot; Tom Friedman displays a mastery over his subject like few authors.  In &quot;The Lexus and the Olive Tree,&quot; the conquered subject material is economic  globalization.  What makes Mr. Friedman such a unique voice on this topic  is his career as a foreign affairs columnist for the New York Times.   Over  the past few years, Mr. Friedman has traveled the world many times over,  collecting first-hand accounts of how globalization works, who benefits  from it, and its multiple consequences.  His understanding of this issue  radiates through scores of personal narratives and anecdotes which not only  raise the reader's awareness but seriously educate him on a subject of  immense importance.  At the beginning and conclusion of his book, Mr.  Friedman claims that he is no an advocate of globalization, per se.  I do  not doubt the author's sincerity when stating this belief.  The balance of  information, however, tilts heavily in favor of globalization.  That is  because, in sum, globalization has been a largely positive development.  In  the last two decades, many Third World governments have relaxed the grip  they possessed on their nations' economies and opened themselves to the  ideas and industry of the West.  As a result, these nations have enjoyed an  unprecedented explosion of wealth.  Many of them are experimenting with  political democracy for the first time as well.  That is not a coincidence.   But the impact of globalization extends far beyond Seoul, Bangkok, and  Mexico City.  The United States has also been a prime beneficiary of  globalization.  The growth of world trade, combined with the adaption of  information technologies, has been responsible for America's economic  resurgence in the last decade.  Near the end of the book, however, the  author starts to wax sentimental.  He expresses his fear that in this burst  of affluence we will lose our &quot;olive trees&quot; - our communities,  ourtraditions, our values.  Mr. Friedman need not worry.  What makes  capitalism so revolutionary is not that it destroys &quot;olive  trees.&quot;  Rather, it creates new &quot;olive trees&quot; of our own  free choice.  We choose our community; we choose our faith.  It is no  coincidence that the while the United States is the greatest engine of  capitalism, it is also one of the world's most religious countries.  And it  is not just a diverse faith - Protestants, Catholics, Jews, Muslims - but  an intensely personal faith where people choose to make God a central part  of their daily life.  I also have to disagree with Mr. Friedman on one  final point.  I do not share his view that the globalization process is  inevitable.  In the early 1960s, the twin pillars of democracy and  free-market capitalism had reached an incredible level of success and  popular acceptance.  Within a few years, however, national leaders managed  to undermine both systems.  Welfare crippled the national economy while  affirmative action created needless animosity between the races.  As we  enter the twenty-first century - and as the challenges to globalization  mount - we must not go back to the past.  We must not reverse the process  that gave us this burst of wealth and freedom out of some misplaced guilt.   Our sympathy for the poor can not delude us into stripping them of their  sole opportunity for advancement.  The recent anarchist demonstrations in  Seattle and Washington should give us pause.  Hopefully those protestors  will read Tom Friedman's fine book and take a more informed perspective.	2000-06-30
US	52914552	R2SS4OTBBWN41G	0691001146	498121439	Capitalism, Democracy, and Ralph's Pretty Good Grocery.	Books	5	1	5	N	N	This book should be in every poly sci class	If a friend told me that he was flying to a deserted island in the South Pacific and starting a new country, first I would tell him he was crazy.  Next, I would give him this book, insist that he read it, and use it as a  blueprint for a successful society.  Mr. Mueller's book is an excellent  defense of both capitalism and democracy, the twin pillars of our American  society.  The author points out that while neither system is perfect, both  are superior to any other economic method or political institution.  His  book is filled with interesting facts and fascinating insights.  For  example, Mr. Mueller insists that capitalism, far from extinguishing  virtue, actually encourages it.  This is because businessmen who treat  their customers and co-workers with fairness and compassion have an  economic advantage over their brooding colleagues.  This seems  counterintuitive but is born out by evidence.  Service was especially poor  and rude in former communist countries.  Today, American companies from  McDonald's to K-Mart, much maligned by the press, are teaching benevolent  business practices to Third World nations from Africa to the Orient.  Mr.  Mueller also makes the interesting point that economics is approaching a  level of sophistication similar to medicine at the turn of the twentieth  century.  Today, for the first time ever, economists can offer truly  effective remedies for policy makers.  Such a development, if true,  promises an era of truly spectacular growth.  The author also makes the  sobering point that capitalism is a poor tonic for increasing personal  happiness.  Money has never substituted for family, faith, and meaningful  work.  Nor will it in the future.  When it comes to democracy, Mr. Mueller  believes that we expect too much from our political process.  The 1994  health care debate, to some commentators, is an example of our failed  democracy.  In contrast, Mr. Mueller suggests that this episode proves the  resiliency of our institutions.Legislation was proposed and debated,  constituencies were mobilized and addressed, and the outcome was largely  favorable.  Democracy can be messy but it is incredibly responsive and  self-correcting.  It is the only political system that provides the average  citizen with the instruments of political power.  As more and more nations  embrace the virtue of capitalism and democracy, colossal progress can be  made in alleviating poverty, ensuring human rights, and achieving  self-actualization.  There is no realistic alternative to democracy or  capitalism on the horizon.  Nor should we want one.	2000-06-26
US	52914552	RSOQ8SA8FCE9K	0684832461	608928337	Kennedy and Nixon: The Rivalry That Shaped Postwar America	Books	4	16	19	N	N	Twenty-five years of history as two personal journeys	I am very impressed with Chris Matthews's narrative on the political careers of John F. Kennedy and Richard Nixon.  His book is well-researched, well-written, and his conclusions are well-proven.  At first, I was  suspicious of Mr. Matthews's claim that their jousting was &quot;the  rivalry that shaped postwar America.&quot;  But in completing the book, I  can appreciate that Kennedy and Nixon were the American version of Disraeli  and Gladstone.  They both served in the South Pacific during World War II  and were elected to Congress in the same year, 1946.  Nixon ran as a  &quot;pragmatic liberal.&quot;  Kennedy ran as a &quot;fighting  conservative.&quot;  Excuse me?  But beneath the contradictory rhetoric lay  an ideological similarity: a passionate hate of communism and a deep  suspicion of the New Deal, Eastern Establishment.  American leaders during  the Cold War, they rallied their nation against Communist threats at home  and abroad.  They further overthrew the old Washington rules of political  cordiality and fairness.  To substitute, the first leaders of the G.I.  Generation created a winner-take-all political culture that forever changed  the Beltway.  Kennedy started as the more ruthless pol.  His early  political career was filled with charges of bribery, vote-stealing, and  other low-ball maneuvers.  Nixon, of course, would not be outdone.  His  relentless pursuit of Alger Hiss gave him his first political break and  cemented his fear that the Elite was out to break him.  Similar in  political style and ideology, Kennedy and Nixon became genuine friends in  the 1950s.  This surprised me but Mr. Matthews documents this point  prodigiously.  Nixon was invited to the Kennedy wedding in 1953.  When  Kennedy was near death in 1954, Nixon was in tears.  &quot;Oh God, don't  let him die.&quot;  Jackie Kennedy told friends that Jack admired Nixon  more than any other man he knew.  What forever changed the relationship was  the 1960 presidential election.  Kennedy beat Nixon by an incredibly narrow  margin and the loser was forever convinced that the election was stolen.   Mr. Matthews emphasizes the role of &quot;imagery&quot; in the 1960  campaign.  All things being equal, Nixon should have topped Kennedy that  year.  But Kennedy's good looks and aristocratic style contrasted favorably  with Nixon's common looks and straight talk.  When Kennedy was assinated,  the manufactured mythology of &quot;Camelot&quot; masked an average  presidency.  When Nixon was finally elected president in 1968, it was the  ideal of Camelot that haunted him throughout his term.  No matter what  Nixon did, he could never measure up to Kennedy in the eyes of the American  people.  The Eastern Establishment viewed Nixon especially distastefully;  they saw him as an illegitimate president.  Nixon knew that he was in a  constant struggle against the liberals who carried the torch for Camelot.   Nixon was determined to use every weapon in his arsenal to save himself and  his presidency - constitution de damned.  Mr. Matthews is especially fluent  in describing the step-by-step political destruction of Richard Nixon.  The  Kennedy-Nixon rivalry ends in 1974 with Nixon's resignation in disgrace.   Kennedy had bested Nixon one last time.  But in a true sense, both men were  equal winners.  It was their Cold War zealotry and political ruthlessness  that defined Washington after 1960.  Our communist-free world is largely  their child.  Our cynical political culture is largely their creature too.   For better and for worse.	2000-06-25
US	52914552	R3DOOIVRCM8VG6	0385499345	475272008	The Lexus and the Olive Tree: Understanding Globalization	Books	5	67	100	N	N	Tom Friedman was born to write	Like his first book, &quot;From Beirut to Jerusalem,&quot; Tom Friedman  displays a mastery over his subject like few authors.  He is such an  articulate apostle for globalization because he has lived it and breathed  it for years as a foreign affairs columnist.  His book is crammed with  witty anecdotes that enable the reader to understand and appreciate the  profound changes in our world economy.  In his introduction, Mr. Friedman  says that he is not an advocate of globalization, per se.  Rather, he  accepts its seeming inevitability.  I am sure Mr. Friedman believes that  his intent is neutral, but the balance of his book's information is  favorable toward globalization.  This should not be surprising because, in  sum, globalization is a positive world development.  The author, however,  waxes sentimental when he warns that globalization may turn us into  spiritless &quot;machines.&quot;  Mr. Friedman shouldn't worry.  In fact,  capitalism and democracy are revolutionary systems precisely because they  enable people to possess free will and choice.  With the rise of  globalization, people all over the world can choose their own &quot;olive  trees&quot; - their communities, their religious beliefs, etc. - while  enjoying a higher standard of living.  It is no coincidence that the United  States - the arsenal of both democracy and capitalism - is the world's most  religious industrial society.  It is not only a diverse faith - Jews,  Protestants, Catholics, Muslims - but an active faith - one where people  make God an active part of their lives rather a distant character.  Our  real &quot;olive trees&quot; will be enhanced, not suppressed, by freedom.   I should also add that I disagree with the author concerning the process's  inevitability.  Nothing in life is guaranteed.  In the late 1960s, America  stunted the engine of our economic growth with welfare and crippled the  principle of equality before the law with affirmative action.  These  policies were designed to create a more &quot;compassionate&quot; society.   Rather, they only deepened the problems of poverty and created needless  friction between the races.  In the next decade, America will face a  similar choice: Will we abandon the secret of our success out of misguided  guilt?  Will our sympathy for the poor delude us into destroying the only  opportunity for their advancement?  The recent protests in Seattle and  Washington should give us pause.  Hopefully, they'll read Tom Friedman's  book and adopt a fresh, more informed, perspective.	2000-06-06
US	52914552	R2BZG2W4VFEOS4	0684827336	85299297	The Presidential Difference: Leadership Style from Roosevelt to Clinton	Books	4	9	11	N	N	An intelligent, insightful look at the modern presidency	Due to its short length, I was skeptical about this book's ability to add new insight into the modern presidency.  But Mr. Greenstein crams a great deal of information into 200 pages, offering penetrating insight into our  most recent presidents.  The author divides presidential leadership into  six categories: public communication, organizational capacity, political  skill, vision, cognitive style, and emotional intelligence.  He runs  through each president from FDR to Clinton, commentating how each leader  fares in these categories.  His judgements are usually sound - LBJ had  incredible political skill, Reagan was a visionary, Clinton was hurt by  character flaws.  The overall portrayal is fair.  The author doesn't  concern himself with the ends of a president's program or ideology, but the  means.  He is most fond of FDR, although here Mr. Greenstein may be too  kind.  He also overstates things when he remarks that without FDR the US  might have slipped into a totalitarian state.  If there is one lesson of  modern American government, it is the durability of our institutions, which  have withstood every challenge from McCartyhism to Vietnam to Watergate.   He is also especially kind to Eisenhower and surprisingly harsh with  Kennedy.  Like most presidential historians, he considers Clinton to be a  disappointment.  On the final page of the book, Mr. Greenstein writes that  emotional intelligence is the asset that all future presidents must have.   &quot;Beware the presidential contender,&quot; he writes, &quot;who lacks  emotional intelligence.  In its absence all else may turn to ashes.&quot;   I think this an especially powerful warning in light of our current  presidential election.  There is one candidate -no names please!- who has  earned a reputation for being especially lacking in this area.  In  November, we will see if America's voters share this author's evident  concern.	2000-05-31
US	52914552	R282GC7LKQ8408	0805241574	772142383	What Nietzsche Really Said	Books	4	38	44	N	N	And He Had A Lot to Say	Few philosophers have been so widely read and yet so incredibly misunderstood as Friedrich Nietzsche.  Many people have used Nietzsche's words to advance their own agendas.  Hitler was supposedly a fan even  though the philosopher was a staunch opponent of anti-Semitism and would  have found the Third Reich abhorrent.  Many atheists twist Nietzsche's  remark that &quot;God is dead&quot; into an endorsement of nihilism when in  truth, the German's writings are full of joy and spirit.  Clearly, the  misinterpretation of Nietzsche's words over the past century makes a book  that synthesizes his ideas an absolute necessity.  This is that book.  The  authors have much enthusiasm for Nietzsche's writings and their feelings  spill over into the reader.  They begin by refuting &quot;thirty  rumors&quot; that swirl around the postmodernist.  These include  accusations that Nietzsche was a misogynist, an alcoholic, and drove  students to murder.  They are all dismissed.  Mr. Solomon and Ms. Higgins  go on to explore Nietzsche's critique of other philosophers and include a  list of his heroes and villains.  The strongest section of the book  illuminates &quot;Nietzsche's virtues.&quot;  Here, the German's  &quot;life-affirming&quot; philosophy is explained in detail.  If ever  there was a man ahead of his times, it was Nietzsche.  Over a century ago,  he anticipated a profound crisis in morality.  He recognized that the old  religious institutions were losing their credibility and influence.  With  their decline would come the ascent of scientific materialism.  This new  system, however, is a poor instrument for creating morality and virtue.   Nietzsche offers his students an alternative: a morality from  &quot;within;&quot; a perspective that sees life as worth living for its  own sake and cultivating a character written with &quot;style.&quot;   Nietzsche is a living voice that sees life as a joy, encouraging us to  treat every moment as such.  That is what Nietzsche reallysaid.	2000-05-31
US	52914552	R2XAIIVP810JXN	0465042333	475598833	Losing Ground: American Social Policy, 1950-1980, 10th Anniversary Edition	Books	5	118	152	N	N	Charles Murray hits the nail right on the head	This is an important book that explains an incredibletransformation in American social policy. Sometime around themid-1960s, a new code of private values and government policies pushed their way into mainstream society.  This vision and its consequences were a radical departure from our nation's past.  From 1950 to 1965, an economy founded on free market principles, nurtured on minimal government regulation, and protected from large welfare programs, had slashed the poverty rate from one third of the population to just over one-tenth.  Eliminating poverty seemed like a real possibility to Americans as long as the wheels of capitalism continued to spin unhindered.  From 1950 to 1965, African-Americans won court battles giving them the human rights guaranteed to every citizen. These belated changes were cemented by the hallmark 1964 Civil Rights Act and accompanied by a remarkable surge in African-American incomes. This fifteen-year period was an era of immense progress.  Not only were the classes and races coming together but crime was remarkably low, families exceptionally resilient, and drug use almost non-existent.  Then around 1965 something happened.  All of a sudden the capitalist economy that made Old World immigrants into middle-class, suburban home-owners was described as a guilty, imperialist system that exploited the poor and the weak.  Government planners in Washington got right to solving this &quot;problem.&quot; From now on, people could expect a guaranteed income for an unlimited period of time, without regard to personal behavior or the ability to work. To show what a compassionate society we are, we would destroy the work ethic that was the bedrock of Western civilization.  But that wasn't the best part.  After 1965, the principle of equal opportunity for all races that Martin Luther King martyred himself for was also described as a &quot;guilty&quot; system that kept blacks and women oppressed.  Suddenly, it wasn't only white supremacists who claimed that blacks couldn't thrive in American society.  It was the very black leaders themselves.  They claimed that affirmative action programs were needed to keep African-Americans functional.  Too bad if it destroyed the American ideal of merit and equal opportunity.  Tough luck if it strained relations between whites and blacks.  Those claiming that racial preferences were unjust could be dismissed as closet racists.  Only a decade later, the consequences of this change in values and government policy were beyond dispute.  Destroying merit and the work ethic did not create a &quot;Great Society.&quot; Rather, it helped create a large underclass imprisoned by poverty.  Crime rates tripled, illegitimate births exploded, and drug use surged.  The trends have leveled off since the late 1970s but the consequences of this values shift remain with us today.  Opponents of racial quotas are still lampooned as closet racists.  Reformers of the welfare state are dismissed as &quot;uncompassionate.&quot; What is really racist and uncompassionate is defending the government policies that created this wretched condition.  We made this happen.  And we can unmake it. The power, as always, is ours.	2000-05-31
US	52914552	R2OMF9Z394XMFC	0465042333	475598833	Losing Ground: American Social Policy, 1950-1980, 10th Anniversary Edition	Books	5	24	36	N	N	Charles Murray's pen is liberalism's nightmare	This is an important book that explains an incredible transformation in American social policy. Sometime around the mid-1960s, a new code of  private values and government policies pushed their way into mainstream  society.  This vision and its consequences were a radical departure from  our nation's past.  From 1950 to 1965, an economy founded on free market  principles, nurtured on minimal government regulation, and protected from  large welfare programs, had slashed the poverty rate from one third of the  population to just over one-tenth.  Eliminating poverty seemed like a real  possibility to Americans as long as the wheels of capitalism continued to  spin unhindered.  From 1950 to 1965, African-Americans won court battles  giving them the human rights guaranteed to every citizen. These belated  changes were cemented by the hallmark 1964 Civil Rights Act and accompanied  by a remarkable surge in African-American incomes.  This fifteen-year  period was an era of immense progress.  Not only were the classes and races  coming together but crime was remarkably low, families exceptionally  resilient, and drug use almost non-existent.  Then around 1965 something  happened.  All of a sudden the capitalist economy that made Old World  immigrants into middle-class, suburban home-owners was described as a  guilty, imperialist system that exploited the poor and the weak.   Government planners in Washington got right to solving this  &quot;problem.&quot;  From now on, people could expect a guaranteed income  for an unlimited period of time, without regard to personal behavior or the  ability to work. To show what a compassionate society we are, we would  destroy the work ethic that was the bedrock of Western civilization.  But  that wasn't the best part.  After 1965, the principle of equal opportunity  for all races that Martin Luther King martyred himself for was also  described as a &quot;guilty&quot; system that kept blacks and women  oppressed.  Suddenly, it wasn't only white supremacists who claimed that  blacks couldn't thrive in American society.  It was the very black leaders  themselves.  They claimed that affirmative action programs were needed to  keep African-Americans functional.  Too bad if it destroyed the American  ideal of merit and equal opportunity.  Tough luck if it strained relations  between whites and blacks.  Those claiming that racial preferences were  unjust could be dismissed as closet racists.  Only a decade later, the  consequences of this change in values and government policy were beyond  dispute.  Destroying merit and the work ethic did not create a &quot;Great  Society.&quot;  Rather, it helped create a large underclass imprisoned by  poverty.  Crime rates tripled, illegitimate births exploded, and drug use  surged.  The trends have leveled off since the late 1970s but the  consequences of this values shift remain with us today.  Opponents of  racial quotas are still lampooned as closet racists.  Reformers of the  welfare state are dismissed as &quot;uncompassionate.&quot;  What is really  racist and uncompassionate is defending the government policies that  created this wretched condition.  We made this happen.  And we can unmake  it.  The power, as always, is ours.	2000-05-26
US	52914552	RZJ4TCR6V29KI	0820318620	514441089	Jimmy Carter, American Moralist	Books	4	5	8	N	N	A fresh look at a forgotten president	Jimmy Who?  That was the question many American asked themselves during the 1976 presidential campaign.  Who was this obscure southern governor  positioning himself into the highest office in the land?  Twenty-five years  later, many Americans find themselves asking this exact same question  despite a presidential term and a prominent life in volunteer work.  While  a full understanding of Jimmy Carter is impossible, Mr. Morris provides a  fine introduction to his life.  The author puts a strong emphasis on the  role morality played both in Carter's private life and public image.  The  book is especially strong in exploring Carter's childhood and early  political career - a topic that is neglected in every other Carter book.   Less emphasis is placed on Carter's presidential term.  Major incidents  that shaped the late 1970s receive only a few pages each.  What are we to  make of Jimmy Carter's presidency?  Even though the Southern Baptist may  have been the most ethical and decent man to occupy the White House this  century, the record is wanting, at best, miserable at worst.  This is  because Carter lacked any core vision of where he wanted to take his  country.  He never explained to voters or to himself the direction he  wanted to take us.  Further, in cases where Carter was more assertive, like  energy policy, he was inexperienced in how Washington politics worked.  He  stumbled badly in his Congressional relations and he never constructed a  loyal constituency out of the American public.  There were some positives,  such as the Egypt-Israel peace accords and legislation deregulating the  airline and trucking industries.  The Iran Hostage affair was a perplexing  situation that would have frustrated any leader. But on economics and Cold  War relations, the most important issues of Carter's term, his  administration was especially inept.  Even though Carter had private  misgivings about Keynesianism, he couldn't bring himself to repudiate the  tenets of social liberalism.  Government spending surged under Carter's  term.  Inflation proved resistant to his wage and price contols.  Under  Carter's foreign policy team, detente continued to be a one-way street  working to Moscow's advantage.  It took a man with a far different  perspective of the world, Ronald Regan, to reverse Carter's shortcomings.   It is unfair to label Jimmy Carter a failure.  Only the harshest critic can  label a man who rose to the highest office in the land - and served with  honesty and integrity- as a &quot;failure.&quot;  But Carter's presidency  was constrained by a lack of vision, competence, and a failed ideology.   The responsibility for this situation lies solely with this farmer's son  from Plains.	2000-05-21
US	52914552	RVFSHJQX8WHTZ	0819187518	123974852	Thirteen Keys to the Presidency	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Putting the talking heads out of a job	Is it possible to know the results of a presidential elections months, even a year or two, in advance?  According to these authors, the answer is &quot;yes&quot; and their method is revealed in this book.  The Thirteen  Keys are a simple list of qualifications that the incumbent party must meet  to retain control of the White House.  If the incumbent party loses six or  more keys, its candidate is destined for defeat in November.  The authors  have credibility because their book illustrates how the keys have worked in  every election since the Civil War.  They predicted George Bush's victory  in the early spring when Michael Dukakis held a double-digit lead in the  polls.  They foresaw the electoral strength and resiliency of Bill Clinton.  What makes the Thirteen Keys especially intriguing is that they make media  strategies, electoral college maps, and vice-presidential picks irrelevant.  In making each election a referendum on the past four years, the keys not  only confirm common sense, they also redeem the integrity of the regular  voter.  Ronald Reagan didn't win in 1980 or earn re-election because of his  acting skills.  Nor could George Bush have been saved in 1992 by a superior  campaign.  The message of the keys is: &quot;Performance counts.&quot;  Looking ahead to 2000 has to bring a smile to Democrats.  Using the keys,  it is hard to envision a scenario other than a Gore victory in November.  Whether that's good news or bad news is up to the reader.	2000-05-12
US	52914552	R3CZKFM7S2UJA2	0465047831	351220943	Myths Of Rich And Poor: Why We're Better Off Than We Think	Books	4	18	33	N	N	An unconventional, but accurate, perspective	This book dispels the myths and inaccuracies that infiltrate media reporting.  These are America's best days, its high noon of empire.  We have achieved full employment in our economy but without the menace of  inflation, we have turned budget deficits into budget surpluses, negative  statistics like crime and poverty are at 30-year lows.  And yet there is a  sizeable portion of the country's elite who see a nation suffering from  material poverty and injustice (which they'll gladly rescue us from!)   There are three main criticisms from the left concerning the New Economy  which has grown almost continually - and often spectaculaly since 1983.   The first is that the boom times have hit their peak and bad times are  right around the corner.  This is because globalization and information  technologies - the engine of our freedom and high living standards - are  too &quot;chaotic&quot; and need to be reigned in by government agencies.   Unless they are put at the nation's helm - and soon - we face a repeat of  the Crash of 1929.  Funny, we've been hearing this Chicken Little talk  since the mid-90s and yet the soaring stock market has done more to achieve  the socialists' dream of citizen ownership of the economy than any  government planning or tax confiscation scheme.  So much for that.  Second,  the left argues that the rich are getting richer and the poorer are getting  poorer.  As this fine book proves, this is not true.  All classes are  benefitting from this explosion of welath.  More importantly, class  mobility remains a fixture of American life.  Statistics show that   &quot;poor&quot; families are often middle-class within a decade.   Moreover, what does the left mean by &quot;poverty&quot; when air  conditioning and color TVs are a staple of nearly every American household?   Soon Internet access will join that list as long as Washington minds its  business.  Perhaps the liberals should visit the Third World to see what  true poverty is!  Oh, that's right- they want to roll back globalization -  the only means of uplifting the world's poor.  That's odd.  The last and  futile argument by the left is that our humming economy doesn't really  exist.  We're really a nation of hamburger flippers who also work part-time  at the local Walmart to pay off our debts.  My answer to that, and as the  authors of this book reiterate, is look around you: Is America really that  bad?  Does their sad rhetoric reflect the realities of your daily  experience?  Of your life?  In most cases, the answer is &quot;Of course  not.&quot;  The anger of the ancient liberals and closet socialists is that  the engine for the greatest boom in history is free enterprise and not the  &quot;industrial policies&quot; that they would coerce us into.  Their  theories and academic treatises have been discredited and to hold on to  their credibility and self-respect, they denounce their opponents in the  private sector who have done the most to bring freedom and high living  standards to Americans of all classes.  If Americans continue to read true  and honest books like this one, we'll never have to go back to the past.	2000-05-12
US	52914552	R3VYJWIHL30GC0	0670881465	184172254	The 48 Laws of Power	Books	4	1	4	N	N	An, um, interesting book	I would probably write a favorable review of this book - but following the lessons taught in it - I deny ever reading it! In fact, I denounce any effort by any author that encourages his readers to engage in  power-grabbing over love and cooperation! A travesty.	2000-05-12
US	52914552	RF8PJ2N16B2CQ	0684862964	751802434	The CLINTON ENIGMA : A FOUR AND A HALF MINUTE SPEECH REVEALS THIS PRESIDENT'S ENTIRE LIFE	Books	3	3	3	N	N	Read the full-length biography	For readers with only a passing interesting in Bill Clinton, this is a short, succint book that you can complete in a day.  But for readers looking for bigger game, read &quot;First in His Class&quot; by the same  author.  That book is the best Clinton biography on the market, covering  his life from childhood to his 1992 presidential run.  This book was  published just before Clinton's impeachment by the House.  The author gives  some new insights, going through the president's August 17 confession  line-by-line, and interprets its meaning.  You sense Mr. Maraniss's  frustration and obvious disappointment with his subject.  But at the same  time, he maintains a hue of fairness and objectivity that is badly needed  when compared to other Clinton books.   Mr. Maraniss will help you  understand Bill Clinton, but the truth is that no person can fully  understand this true &quot;enigma.&quot;	2000-05-11
US	52914552	R2FL7R1Y5YIT5Z	0679730052	754470002	The Age of Extremes: A History of the World, 1914-1991	Books	3	5	13	N	N	An interesting, but undisciplined, piece of work	This book is filled with facts, figures, and analysis of the century gone by.  In that sense, it will please nearly any reader who loves world history.  But Mr. Hobsbawm's book suffers from a number of flaws that  detract from the quality of his work.  First, the book is far too  &quot;Eurocentric.&quot;  How any distinguished author can purport to write  a definitive account of the century while mentioning the USA only in  passing is beyond me.  Japan, the Mideast, and Africa also make nothing  more than cameo appearances.  Second, by combining political events with  socio-economic trends in a single book, Mr. Hobsbawm winds up with meager  information on each subject.  It would have been best to limit the field to  simply politics and international relations.  Finally, the tone of the book  is too negative.  The 1900s were much more than a collection of bloody wars  and multinational companies exploiting poor people.  Here the author's  political ideology may have distorted his attitude.  If Marxism is dead,  then the future must be hopeless, right?  I'll let the reader judge that  attitude for himself.  Overall, the book has some merits.  The author is  indeed very intelligent and his writing style flows nicely.  I just  expected more.	2000-05-11
US	52914552	R34F5ENH0RUUO6	0312168160	869864955	The Decline and Fall of Soviet Empire: Forty Years That Shook The World, From Stalin to Yeltsin	Books	3	1	2	N	N	A good start for Cold War readers	This is not the definitive history of the Soviet Union nor of U.S.-Soviet relations during the Cold War.  But Mr. Coleman, who spent three decades in Moscow as a correspondent, makes a valuable contribution to these subjects.   His main argument is that the communist system was doomed from the start  and that following the death of Stalin, its collapse was only a matter of  time.  He furthers argues that the U.S. could have accelerated the Soviet  demise if it had challenged its rival instead of merely accomodating it.   His first insight is well-taken and non-controversial.  His second point is  interesting and probably true, but he doesn't develop his theory well  enough.  I do think Mr. Coleman makes an excellent case for Mikhail  Gorbachev's prominent and esteemed place in world history.  The author also  concludes with a nice, succint, and realistic commentary of where Russia is  now and where it is headed.  He understands that Russia's road to  democratic stability and capitalism is bumpy.  But with continued U.S.  support it should be an experiment that Russia's people will benefit  enormously from.	2000-05-11
US	52914552	RRVN0D0M8GO2W	1891620916	299684156	President Reagan: The Role Of A Lifetime	Books	5	31	40	N	N	A win for the Gipper and his admirers	If you wanted one man to write a book on the Reagan presidency, it would have to be Lou Cannon.  Cannon, who covered the Gipper as a journalist for nearly three decades, doesn't disappoint his audience.  His book is not an  exploration into Ronald Reagan the man. Rather, it is a thorough and lucid  trip through the Reagan administration.  You'll relive the highlights of  the 1980s, including the budget battles of 1981, the invasion of Grenada,  and the INF Treaty with the Soviet Union.  You'll also be confronted with  some of the shortcomings of the Reagan presidency, inlcuding the  Iran-Contra affair and the annual budget deficits.  Cannon is somewhat  detached from Reagan, which can be a positive attribute in a biographer,  but the author is too reluctant to embrace his subject.  His reporting of  the Reagan presidency is first-class but his analysis of the 1980s is too  negative.  Biographers like to present their subjects as complex characters  who do both good and bad things.  And indeed, Reagan is no exception.  But  the balance of information in Cannon's book, whether he realizes it or not,  supports the assertion that Reagan was one of our greatest presidencies.   Most important was Reagan's instrumental role in peacefully eradicating  communism from the earth.  He indeed had a vital partnership with Mikhail  Gorbachev in this task.  Conservatives and liberals do themselves a  disservice when they give one man all the credit at the expense of the  other.  The truth is that both men were crucial to one of the brightest and  significant events of the century.  Cannon makes this point well.  Cannon  is a little more reluctant to give Reagan credit for the economic recovery  of the 1980s.  Budget-wise, this may be a fair judgement.  Indeed,  Reaganomics turned out to be a false promise.  Tax rates in 1989 were the  same as in 1981 and government spending was much, much higher.  But Reagan  deserves credit for holding the line against a Democratic Congress at odds  with his vision.  Reaganomics was more successful in fighting inflation,  where the president gave crucial support to the Federal Reserve in its  efforts to restore monetary sanity, and also in defending free trade  against protectionists and laying the groundwork for both NAFTA and GATT.   Cannon puts too much emphasis on the Iran-Contra affair, which history has  denigrated to less than a footnote, but his analysis of U.S. involvement in  Lebanon is important and sobering.  The overall perspective, however, is a  bright one.  No man did more to replenish America's confidence and unity,  after two decades of despair and disunity, than Ronald Wilson Reagan.  A  true patriot, Reagan was proud to be an American.  His service as president  made it possible for millions of citizens to share his faith.  After  reading Cannon's opus, you'll understand why.	2000-05-11
US	52914552	RE1C958NG1KH2	068482616X	27849242	The Choice	Books	3	3	5	N	N	What choice?	What makes Bob Woodward such a prominent author and journalist is his ability to get behind the scenes of important events and key people and report them to mass audiences.  In &quot;The Choice,&quot; Woodward's talent is handicapped in several respects.  First, the subject matter - the  early rounds of the 1996 presidential election- is only mildly interesting.   Second, much of Woodward's information was already public knowledge at the  time of the book's release.  Finally, the author is so caught up in getting  the &quot;inside story,&quot; he loses sight of the election's broad  themes.  He loses the big picture.  A respectable work but there are better  books about this subject.	2000-05-03
US	52914552	R240NNHCD2U8QR	0671675567	64132475	Secrets of the Temple: How the Federal Reserve Runs the Country	Books	4	15	19	N	N	An important book - regardless of your politcial ideology	Mr. Greider's book is a serious and controversial attempt to unlock the mysteries of the Federal Reserve Board - an institution that remains an enigma to most Americans.  After reading this book, you will see why Fed Chairman Alan Greenspan is described as the second most powerful man in  America.  Greider not only goes behind the scenes to explain Federal  Reserve policy from 1979 to 1986, he challenges the reader in a debate  about the direction of monetary policy and more importantly, the  desirability of having a Federal Reserve Board in the first place.  I  applaud Mr. Greider for bringing up this question that trancends the  current political debate.  But I do not agree with his proposal to put the  Fed's powers in Congressional hands.  That would only bring us back to the  1970s where political pressure on the Fed produced an easy money policy and  inflation.  Reversing this trend led to the harsh recession of 1981-82,  which Greider despairs over.  Our best hope is to keep the Fed in the hands  of sober, intelligent people who put the needs of citizens over the needs  of politicians.	2000-05-03
US	52914552	RLUPGEFXFYO9E	0871136899	245918240	Back from the Dead: How Clinton Survived the Republican Revolution (Newsweek Book)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	A nice review of Clinton's victory	Making the 1996 presidential election interesting and excitingis a difficult task.  But Evan Thomas comes very close in this gem ofa book.  It focuses not only on the Republican primaries and thegeneral election but also on the Congressional battles in 1995-96 that made Clinton's victory possible.  Candidate media strategies are also explored.  Thomas also provides insight and analysis throughout the book rather than just at the end like other authors have the habit of doing.  These insights, especially concerning the birth of a &quot;Small Deal&quot; in government policy, are fair and accurate. For political readers interested in the 1996 presidential election come here.	2000-05-03
US	52914552	R3KEK5IYMYHZWR	0671666843	816641308	The AGENDA: INSIDE THE CLINTON WHITE HOUSE	Books	4	5	7	N	N	The book that made Clinton furious at the media and himself	Mr. Woodward writes a fine book that lifts the veil off the battle to pass the Clinton economic agenda in 1993.  The reader, however, is left with a negative impression of a new president portrayed as disorganized, indecisive, and out-of-his-league.  Woodward focuses on Clinton's failures  but doesn't put the proper emphasis on the episode's conclusion: Clinton  got his plan passed!  In spite of the odds against him and a number of  gaffes, a budget equally significant as the 1981 Reagan plan, passed.  You  could argue over the plan's merits but Woodward should do a better job  explaining how difficult it is to get things accomplished in Washington,  especially legislation that is seen as harming entrenched interests and  launched by a freshman administration.  A solid book nonetheless.	2000-05-03
US	52914552	R1TKNUXPJSNPZS	083175947X	453936608	Richard Nixon and His America (Leaders of Our Times Series)	Books	2	6	8	N	N	There are better Nixon biographies	I consider this biography to be a disappointment.  It is not a &quot;true&quot; catalogue of Nixon's life nor is it an interpretation of his presidency.  Nor is it a portrait of &quot;Nixon's America&quot; as the title implies.  Whatever this book is, it will not enlighten the reader  about who Richard Nixon was or his term in office.  There has to be a  better book on this subject.  I hope.	2000-05-03
US	52914552	R199J3XRFS9JLT	0375400869	203371491	The Last Campaign: How Harry Truman Won the 1948 Election	Books	3	4	4	N	N	Room for improvemnet in an otherwise interesting book	I have to agree with the reviewer below me that the book was a bit shallow and misinformed at times.  I couldn't understand why the author wrote about the two fringe candidates as much as he did about Harry Truman and Tom  Dewey.  Even when discussing the real players, the book drifted at times.   Nevertheless, these disappointments were compensated by the storyline  itself: perhaps the most interesting and surprising presidential election  of the twentieth century.  If you're interested in the 1948 vote or Cold  War politics, this is a fine book.  Otherwise, leave it off your Mothers'  Day shopping list.	2000-05-02
US	52914552	R32U2H7JTU1II7	0684862697	215865364	The FUTURE AND ITS ENEMIES: The Growing Conflict Over Creativity, Enterprise, and Progress	Books	4	12	18	N	N	An answer to those who would return us to the past	This is an important book for Americans who may be confused by the political rhetoric that sweeps across our land.  It is always dangerous to make sweeping generalizations about people and politics, but basically the  nation can be divided into two groups: those who fear the future and those  who eagerly embrace it.  This schism can be applied to any number of  issues, including globalization, welfare reform, TV censorship, school  prayer, and more.  Ms. Postrel's book provides an excellent defense of  those instruments that create progress and enable Americans to enjoy both a  high standard of living and inner freedom: capitalism, creativity,  individuality, freedom of thought and organization.  There is a large  segment of the population who, unforunately, have a stake in seeing the  engine of human progress stop in its tracks.  They don't like where the  trends are heading and they want to begin the long march back to the past.   Ms. Postrel, using such topics as business, natural evolution and social  norms, explains why we must never go back.  And hopefully, with others  listening to her message, we won't.	2000-05-02
US	52914552	R5V6RK3JWW083	046508995X	469991966	The Vision of the Anointed: Self-Congratulation as a Basis for Social Policy	Books	5	18	23	N	N	An outstanding interpretation of a discredited agenda	In his book, Mr. Sowell pierces many of the myths that surround the liberal agenda.  His conclusion is that activists, who wield a wisdom grounded in theory but not real-life experience, claim that America is in  various &quot;crises&quot; that demand government action.  The  state-sponsored response to these so-called crises - whether it be poverty,  homelessness, or infant mortality - only make the situation worse.  To the  perpetrators, the actual results of these programs is irrelevant.  Indeed,  criticism of the activist agenda is a sign of unenlightenment at best;  bigotry and coldness at worst.  The logic behind this movement is, as Mr.  Sowell puts it, solely to ease the conscience of the purportrators.  The  liberal agenda often sounds swell to voting Americans.  Who can be against  federal rules that protect the penniless and oppressed?  The problem, as  Mr. Sowell articulates and proves, is that these same rules inevitably  exploit those intended to benefit from them.  One word: Welfare.  In the  last two decades it's become increasingly difficult to fool Americans about  the failed results of activist liberalism. The guilt of common Americans -  that liberals used to exploit - is turning into bitterness.  People are  starting to see that being &quot;compassionate&quot; doesn't mean giving  people a handout or &quot;protecting&quot; them from vices like strip  malls.  Compassion means protecting the freedom that people are born with,  ensuring equal opportunity, and of course demanding accountability.  In  casting their ballots, Americans are articulating a new political and  social philosophy: compassion doesn't mean lowering our standards, it means  raising them.  The next generation of leaders, who grew up seeing many of  these failed experiments, will take the issue of compassion right to those  who use its name to inadvertently oppress others.  America will better off  from their efforts.	2000-05-02
US	52914552	R3HIAN4S1SXOZI	0395883237	409505855	Inventing Al Gore: A Biography	Books	4	41	45	N	N	Before you go to the polls, read this book!	Bill Turque's biography of Al Gore is fair, informative, and well-written.  In terms of comprehensiveness and analysis, it compares favorably with David Maraniss's biography of Gore's boss.  Having read Turque's book, I'm  struck by how contradictory Al Gore is as a person and as a politician.  In  many ways, Gore is even more complex and interesting than Bill Clinton.   The title of the book, &quot;Inventing Al Gore&quot; accurately portrays  Gore as a work in process; a man who continuously changes himself and his  image even as he's redirected by political and societal forces.  Turque  portrays Gore and Clinton as ideological allies (&quot;New Democrats&quot;)  but it is striking how different their backgrounds are and the contrast in  their personalities.  Clinton was a product of a middle-class meritocracy  whereas Gore enjoyed all the privildges of a political aristocracy.   Clinton's father died three months before he was born.  Gore's father was a  large and powerful influence on his life and career.  Clinton's ambition  never deserted him whereas Gore - like many young men burdened by others'  expectations - experienced an existential crisis early in life.  Clinton's  political career has been punctuated by character problems even as he  dodges the gravest threats; Gore is the &quot;Eagle Scout&quot; whose  slightest indiscretions stick to him like velcro (see Buddhist temple).  On  a personal level, Clinton is a people person who seems more comfortable on  the campaign trail than as an executive behind a desk.  Gore is the  opposite.  Indeed, Gore gives the image of a man completely uncomfortable  in his own skin.  Perhaps it is because he has reason to feel  uncomfortable.  From Turque's book you get the impression that Gore came  into politics with serious moral grounding - along with high ambition.  You  see through the book that during his career, this morality has been  thwarted by the &quot;realities&quot; of political life.  You get the sense  thatthe author is disappointed in Gore; that the VP has bought into a  sleazy way of life to satisfy his father's unrealized ambitions. Gore at  times has reasserted this Doubting Thomas persona.  His environmental  treatise is a catharsis, a release from the show and games that politics  often is.  His abandonment of the environment as vice-president, along with  episodes such as the fundraising calls of 1996, show how far he has slidden  during the Clinton years.  The question for our purposes is what kind of  president would Gore be should he be elected?  Turque is skeptical of any  impact Gore could make because of his record for caution.  Moreover, there  is no consensus for a redirection in domestic policy in America today.  Any  potential for getting Gore's mug on Mount Rushmore seems to be snuffed out  long before Inaugeration Day.  Nevertheless, on the most important issues  of the Clinton era - the budget deficit, welfare reform, Bosnia - Gore was  on the right side of history and pushed his boss toward these policies.   Indeed, Clinton should have listened to Gore late in 1993 when the VP urged  him to be completely open on Whitewater.  He didn't listen.  The result was  Kenneth Starr, then Monica, then an electoral backlash that could keep Gore  out of the White House in 2001.  The record is mixed but the likeliest  scenario is that a President Gore would be much like his Republican  opponent's father, President Bush.  Bush was basically a guy who prisided  over the tiring of the Reagan Revolution; a managerial president who worked  over the hard edges of his predecessor's accomplishments.  Of course, we  all know Bush's fate for not mastering the &quot;vision thing.&quot;  To  avoid that fate as president, Gore must become something he has rarely been  in the past - a leader.	2000-04-05
US	52914552	R3AS7A245RZ0LK	0767900391	565047830	What It Means to Be a Libertarian: A Personal Interpretation	Books	5	12	15	N	N	An important contribution to the national political debate	You do not need to be a libertarian to appreciate the arguments that Charles Murray makes in this important and lucid book.  I would not describe myself as a follower of Mr. Murray's political philosphy, but I  have an affinity for many of the points that he makes: government is too  large, too inefficent, and often does more harm than good.  The author  makes a crucial point that freedom is the most important quality that a  person owns.  That governemnt infringes on this quality is beyond dispute.   What Murray may neglect to acknowledge is that other people can infringe on  our freedom too.  This includes criminals, business monopolies, and racist  neighbors.  It is always a tricky dilema to ask Washington to affirm and  ensure our freedom.  You are practically making a deal with the devil.  But  as the civil rights moment amply demonstates, sometimes authorities are  needed to ensure our liberties.  What isn't as obvious is the role  government should play to ensure equality.  Here Murray's arguments are  especially powerful.  You can certainly have equality without freedom (see  the Soviet Union).  But is a society where everyone drives the same  automobile worth sacrifising future growth - not to mention the political  right to question the legitimacy of that ideology?  It is an answer that  every free society has answered: &quot;No.&quot; Communism is an ideology  of force, not choice.  Even creeping socialism is reversed when free  countries see the defects it imposes, as seen in the conservative movements  in Britain and West Germany in the 1980s.  Freedom is the paramount good in  society.  Equality is an ideal, perhaps, but should not be coerced by an  autocratic government.  But along with freedom comes responsibility.  That  is something that is easily forgotten in American society today.  Freedom  was not bestowed on us to make any choice we want; it is only worthy when  we make the right choice.  Freedom is a luxury enjoyed only by responsible  people.  The challenge for us is to prove ourselves deserving of the  society that our Founding Fathers wished for us to enjoy.	2000-04-05
US	52914552	R3SPCGEBXY30EE	0029018625	795419794	Our Country	Books	5	25	25	N	N	The big picture and the small picture	Two warnings: First, the book is long.  Second, the author is conservative and doesn't make an effort to hide it.  If these facts don't disturb you then I can't recommend this book highly enough.  It is a wonderful story of twentieth-century American politics, crammed with polls, stats, and  insightful commentary.  Why has ethnicity been a more important factor in  politics than class?  How did the political pendulum shift from  conservatism to liberalism to conservatism again?  Who are some of the most  important statesmen in history that you've never heard of?  And much, much  more.  If Michael Barone's &quot;The Almanac of American Politics&quot; is  the Holy Bible of politics, then this work is a book of prayer.	2000-03-07
US	52914552	R8U94R6O0S469	0684848236	357972578	Ronald Reagan: How an Ordinary Man Became an Extraordinary Leader	Books	4	12	16	N	N	A worthy tribute to a transformational leader	Mr. D'Souza's book is a rebuttal to all the anti-Reagan revisionist history in the air today.  In this respect, the author succeeds splendidly.  It is important to remember that before Ronald Reagan, the job desrciption  for president was created by Richard Neustadt in &quot;Presidential  Power.&quot;  According to Neustadt's influential work, the presidnent was  supposed to be an intellectually brilliant and politically experienced Mr.  Fix It.  After 1960, when Neustadt's book was published, the presidents  from John Kennedy to Jimmy Carter modeled themselves on this premise.  The  results were mixed, at best.  Then came Reagan.  He didn't need to prove  what an intellectual he was.  Because he knew he wasn't.  He didn't need to  prove that he was a master adminsitrator.  Because he wasn't.  That's what  his aides were for.  He didn't need to spend endless hours on the phone  persuading relucant congressmen to support his policies.  He had the  adoration of the American people.  In sum, Reagan was the complete opposite  of what a president was &quot;supposed&quot; to be.   According to  Neustadt's updated book, because Reagan didn't follow his prescription for  success, he was not successful.  Ah, but there's the rub.  It would be one  thing if Reagan simply did things his own away; the fact that this  conservative outsider was perceived as a success makes the pain even more  unbearable.  Here is where Mr. D'Souza steps in so well.  He concludes that  Reagan's leadership style - far from an abberation - is the real model for  future presidents.  Reagan led with conviction, dignity, and true  patriotism.  Most importantly of all, he left two powerful and beneficial  legacies.  First, he was the catalyst in the demise of communism, the  greatest threat to civilization since Nazism.  Second, he started a healthy  shift in the American political debate from &quot;socialism lite&quot; to  free enterprise and liberty.  The reprecusions from these two events are  still unfolding to our benefit.  Edmund Morris's &quot;Dutch&quot; doesa  better job of interpreting Ronald Reagan the man.  But if you want to know  why Ronald Reagan was a successful, transformational leader you should do  yourself a favor and read this fine book.	2000-03-07
US	52914552	RJ4GPVNQF267K	051759871X	132075104	The President We Deserve: Bill Clinton: His Rise, Falls, and Comebacks	Books	3	3	5	N	N	Or perhaps Bill Clinton deserves us?	All things considered, this book has to be considered a disappointment.  Its title, &quot;The President We Deserve,&quot; is somewhat misleading.  It  suggests the promise of explanation.  Why do we deserve Bill Clinton?   How do we deserve him?  The book's introduction suggests that what will  make this work unique is the ability to place Mr. Clinton within the  &quot;context&quot; of his times.  This is an intriguing premise.  But it  never materializes.  Instead, what we get is exerpts from Bob Woodward's  &quot;The Agenda&quot; and Elizabeth Drew's &quot;On the Edge&quot; but  without the quality writing style.  I still believe that a book placing Mr.  Clinton within a generational context is a highly promising endeavor.  Newt  Gingrich, Hillary Clinton, George W. Bush, and Bill Bennett are all Baby  Boomers.  A look at how Vietnam, the civil rights movement, and the sexual  revolution shaped their personal lives and political ideologies would be  fascinating.  But, unfortunately, my fellow readers, we just have to wait.	2000-03-07
US	52914552	R1605SYJDLGU3Y	068482535X	799300305	Lincoln	Books	5	7	8	N	N	An outstanding book on an outstanding leader	I have not read enough biographies about Abraham Lincoln to claim that this one is the best but after reading Mr. Donald's book it is hard to imagine a better work.  Donald explores his subject fully and by removing  himself (and letting the story flow uninterrupted), he allows the reader to  connect more deeply with Lincoln.  Donald doesn't heap praise on Lincoln or  substantiate any myths, but this only heightens his credibility for the  larger picture.  Even with the myths dispersed, the reader will gain a  great appreciation of one of our greatest presidents.	2000-02-27
US	52914552	R3N2DJB3380TLF	1891620495	151308161	Government's End: Why Washington Stopped Working	Books	5	27	28	N	N	Mr. Rauch Proves His Point	If you're trying to understand why the federal government is deaf to the needs of its citizens, this book will tell you why.  Further, if there is any question why John McCain strikes such a chord with the American people,  the answer will be found in here.  Yes, the economy is doing great (and the  polls say Americans agree).  Yes, our position in the world is dominant  (and Americans agree).  But when it comes to the performance of the  government, you can see the vein bulging on the average American's  forehead.  Washington has &quot;stopped working,&quot; in Mr. Rauch's words  and in his book, he explains why.  The culprit is an explosion of special  interests who seek to exploit political and finiancial gain from our  nation's capital.  The myth of the &quot;national interest&quot; has been  quietly put to rest.  In its place is the roar of special interests who sap  the nation's economy, stifle legislation, and stir public cynicism.  Mr.  Rauch is a bit too cynical about the prospects for reform; I do not share  his belief that government has &quot;ended.&quot;  Hopefully, the next  generation of political leaders, heeding Rauch's warning, will prove him  wrong.	2000-02-27
US	52914552	R1JTIL1R565XE5	0895264366	797079303	Values Matter Most: How Democrats or Republicans or a Third Party Can Win and Renew the American Way of Life	Books	5	5	6	N	N	And They Do Matter	Values has the dominant role in public debate in the way that government management of the economy once did.  While the debate over national planning has largely been settled (less is more), the debate over national  values is in many ways just beginning.  It is here that Mr. Wattenberg  takes a fresh an intriguing perspective.  For many years, the Democrats  have been popularly potrayed by their critics as the party that condones  immoral behavior, whether that be Hollywood violence or single moms or open  homosexuality.  This doesn't appeal to most Americans but what has kept  them politically vialable has been their second image as the party that's  on the side of working class dads and soccer moms; the party that in the  words of Al Gore &quot;fights for them.&quot;  The Republicans, it would  seem, would have an opening on the values front since most Americans like  their stance on such issues as crime, welfare, and affirmative action.  But  their popularity on these issues is tempered by a deep suspicion front most  swing voters.  They see the GOP as either a trojan horse for race-baiting  and wrath-of-God conservatives or  a money machine for selfish businessmen.   In this sense, the party of Lincoln suffers a severe credibility gap.   Wattenberg understands what each party is doing wrong in the values debate  and offers practical solutions to getting the debate on the side of the  American electorate.  The 2000 election will offer a clue to which party  can win the first round of the values fight.	2000-02-27
US	52914552	R2CQ9YJDHK07FJ	0415921473	455489228	High Hopes: The Clinton Presidency and the Politics of Ambition	Books	5	2	2	N	N	A Pleasant Surprise	I had never head of this book before I spotted it on the shelf of my local bookstore.  But after reading it, I was surprised that it hadn't received more attention and praise.  As far as the Clinton books go, this is the few  non-partisan works you will find.  Further, it is packed with information  and original analysis.  David Maraniss's biography is still the best on  this subject but Mr. Renshon's book is close behind.  He complements  Maraniss by offering psychological insights and then applying these to  Clinton's first term in office.   The result is a clever book that will  leave the reader more informed and enlightened about this enigmatic  president.	2000-02-27
US	52914552	R2JTM5Z62AJS7O	039331572X	815735768	Boomerang: Health Care Reform and the Turn against Government	Books	4	14	15	N	N	A fine, scholarly work on an important event	This book promises to explain to the reader why the Clinton health care plan failed.  The author does this rather well, pointing out how flaws in Clinton's &quot;selling&quot; of the program along with the disunity of  sympathetic interest groups could not match the unity and purpose of  Republican opponents.  It is important to remember that Ms. Skocpol is a  scholar, which can be good and bad.  Her work is scholarly so it is  well-proven (like a scholar) but also very narrow in scope (also, sadly,  like a scholar).  If you want an analysis of what went on behind closed  doors in the 1993-94 fight or want a real discussion on the merits of  health care reform, go elsewhere.  But if you want an analysis solely on  &quot;why Clinton failed,&quot; this book does a very good job.	2000-02-07
US	52914552	RXLJKU1HGH2XH	0465041957	357546778	How We Got Here: The 1970s: The Decade That Brought You Modern Life (for Better Or Worse)	Books	5	28	33	N	N	Request To Mr. Frum:Please Write Your Next Book on the 1990s	This is a brilliant book.  Mr. Frum has written about the 1970s in a style that should be the model for all future historians.  All works on a historical time period should take Mr. Frum's lead in combining politics,  pop culture, values, and yes, humor into a single work.  Frum's thesis -  that the origin of what we call the &quot;modern world&quot; came from the  1970s - is proved beyond a doubt.  It was a time, you could say, when 1960s  political values came into our backyards.  Freedom marches in Selma became  forced busing in Boston.  Flower children became porn stars in our living  rooms.  Of course, this condition was accompanied by a violent backlash  from conservatives.  The meeting of these two cultures naturally led to  war.  In the courts.  In the schoolboards.  In our government.  In most  cases, liberal values won out.  Where liberalism wasn't as successful was  in the economic sphere, where inflation discredited government planning and  regulation almost as badly as the Great Depression discredited  laissez-faire in the 1930s.  The post-war political consensus on the  economy and social values ruptured along several faults and the  consequences of that split affect us to this present day.  Frum analyzes  this condition with candor and facts.  From Vietnam to Watergate, from blue  jeans to disco, from divorce to busing, from New Age cults to Arab sheiks,  you will not find a better read on the 1970s than in the pages of this  book.	2000-02-07
US	52914552	R2OTA253MWA3EX	068484530X	884714885	The Great Disruption: Human Nature and the Reconstitution of Social Order	Books	5	37	40	N	N	Seeing the big picture	This is an important book for readers who are interested in how our cultural landscape has shifted in the last three decades and what the future holds for us.  Mr. Fukuyama is the premiere writer in American today  when it comes to articulating the big picture and offering unique and  provocative viewpoints.  &quot;The Great Disruption&quot; is further  evidence of that fact.  Many Americans fail to appreicate the incredible  social changes that have taken place since 1960 and Fukuyama pinpoints the  prime culprit - a radical change in gender relations.  Changes in the  economy and the government are big enough but when you're talking about the  way that families are raised and how men and women relate to each other -  social mores that have lasted for thousands of years - you're talking about  a seismic social shift.  This revolution, which Fukuyama traces to the  birth control pill, has led to serious social issues - teen pregancy,  single-parent families, crime, low trust in government, and more.  This is  not a completely unique thesis but Fukuyama explains it in far more depth  than any other recent author.  Furthermore, Fukuyama reports that this  &quot;Great Dispruption&quot; is mellowing and he uses the encouraging  statistical data of the last five years as evidence.  The author sites  mankind's fundamental need for order as the catalyst for this social pause.   What he leaves out, however, is a vision of what our country will look  like ten or twenty years from now because of this development.  Will these  statistic trends level off?  Will they reverse themselves?  And if so,  completely?  Or is this just the eye of a storm waiting to churn again?   This, I suppose, is left to the intellect of the reader.  Nevertheless,  this book is a must-read.	2000-02-01
US	52914552	R2U4ZWEGLVL4DD	0375750339	101645973	The End of Affluence: The Causes and Consequences of America's Economic Dilemma	Books	1	4	19	N	N	What the heck is this?	This is really a horrible book.  I can't believe that any serious publisher agreed to print this.  The author's thesis is that our productivity and national wealth has been stagnating since 1973 - about as  original a thesis as smoking is bad for your health.  But then the author  does nothing to explain why this happened or how we could reverse it.  All  he does is repeat the same formula information over and over again.  It  reads like the work of a fifth grader.  More importantly, though, is that  since the release of Mr. Madrick's book both our productivity and national  wealth has soared, rendering his point largely mute.  Stay away from this  book.	2000-02-01
US	52914552	R3BVRHQ1B0MMVS	068486794X	531818508	John McCain: An American Odyssey	Books	4	33	34	N	N	A solid introduction to an intriguing man	Love him or hate him, John McCain is one of the most interesting and provocative public figures in America today.  This book, by Robert Timberg, does a nice job of introducing McCain to the voting public, much of which  knows little about this presidential candidate.  Timberg's book is short -  you can read it in a day - but it is surprisingly deep and well-researched.  Timberg's judgement of McCain is positive, although not gushy.  You will  come away from this book not only with a better understanding of Senator  McCain but a better appreciation of his positive impact on our country.	2000-02-01
US	52914552	R3R0MX0O3ERCX	0700609938	453969846	The Presidency of George Bush (American Presidency Series)	Books	3	14	20	N	N	A quick, respectable look at a forgotten administration	The title of this book is &quot;The Presidency of George Bush.&quot;  Needless to say, to adequately cover even the most insignificant president you need more than the paltry 200 pages that this book provides.  So if Mr. Greene believes that he has written a major book on the Bush  administration, he falls well short.  Nevertheless, perhaps Mr. Greene  sought to write a book offering fewer facts but more analysis.  In that  case, he also falls a bitshort.  The final result is a hybrid of newspaper  reporting, old and new facts, and a sprinkle of original analysis.  It  makes for a repectable work that is worth reading.  Mr. Greene's final  analysis of the Bush presidency is a positive one.  He finds that  &quot;Poppy's&quot; virtues of prudence and patience worked well in dealing  with foreign countries and in conducting the Persian Gulf War.  While  admitting a dearth of domestic accomplishments, the author does praise Bush  for the Americans with Disabilities Act and the Clean Air Act, both passed  in 1990.  One thing that stands out in particular is the author's emphasis  on Bush's charcater.  He sees the ex-president as a genuinely warm friend  and gentle family man.  This is absolutely true.  In comparison to the  other post-WWII presidents, George Bush probably would be the one you would  most want to be your father.  Nevertheless, I do not see why this quality  should be an end in and of itself.  This goes back to the recent debate  over the role that character has for those who preside in the Oval Office.   I do not believe that private values are an end.  Instead, they should be a  means to articulating public values.  This lesson has been imprinted on  Bill Clinton.  Bush was a decent man but his public values were either a  failure or more likely, unknown, because he never artiuclated them.  The  &quot;vision thing&quot; plagued him throughout his public life and his  four years on 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue did not awaken him to this essential  aspect of any great presidency.  There are three significant features when  looking at the Bush presidency.  First was the ending of the Cold War.   Bush is given credit for this development even by many of his critics.  But  let's not forget that in 1989 when Bush took the oath of office, the die  had been cast.  The USSR was dying of a terminal disease.  Bush largely sat  and observed.  He does deserve credit for not tipping the boat but that's  hardly a compliment to build a legacy on.  Bush deserves real applause for  his handling of Germany's reuinfication.  It was there that the Loan Star  Yankee took an active and positive role.  But should we ignore his  appeasement of China following the Tiananmen Square masacre or his  shiflessness on the ethnic cleasness in Yugoslavia?  Its a mixed record.   The second key issue was the Persian Gulf War.  And clearly Bush's  orchestartion of the allied campaign against Iraq was nearly flawless.  But  for every compliment that Bush receives here, he deserves criticism for his  policies toward Iraq immediately prior to and following Deset Storm.  With  a little less prudence and more decisiveness, we could have either avoided  the invasion of Kuwait completely or is so, removed Saddam Hussein from  power following the war.  The third issue was Bush's undoing: his lack of a  domestic agenda of any shape or form.  In 1989 it is true that he faced  severe limitations when working with the legislative branch.  But after the  Gulf War he could have gotten a 30-acre personal mansion from Congress if  he requested it.  Instead, he rested on his own laurels, convinced that  there was nothing he could do to help an American public, hurt and restless  in the midst of an economic recession.  He chose to do nothing and worst of  all, he seemed blind to the concerns of his citizens. Who will ever forget  the supermarket scanner?  The result was a re-election fight that ended  with 62% of the voting public unmoved by his pleas for a second chance.George Bush is a good man and he was not a bad president, per se.  But he  obviously had serious shortcomings as both a president and a public leader.	2000-01-28
US	52914552	R1UWSTKFZZ911O	0684825252	709395663	Trust: The Social Virtues and The Creation of Prosperity	Books	4	17	22	N	N	Fukuyama continues to dazzle	What makes Francis Fukuyama such a special author is his ability to 1) take large, complicated subjects such as the dynamics of industrial economies or the breakdown of the American family and substitute them with  larger and more substantive themes.  He brings social science back to its  grand roots, broadening the circle of human understanding.  2) Fukuyama has  a unique gift to push the public dialogue into new and unchartered  territory.  He challenges people to think differently.  He accomplishes  this again in &quot;Trust.&quot;  It is an impressive book which  re-connects the issues of culture and economics.  His thesis that public  values, especially trust, shapes the direction of national economies is  well-proved by the author.  I will add, though, that the book got a bit  long-winded at times.  It seemed to lack focus periodically, especially in  the heart of the book.  I would have also preferred that Mr. Fukuyama spend  more time examining the United States.  I do not see why it should receive  the same attention as the other countries, ranging from Japan to Italy.  I  would also have been interested to hear more about his feelings about how  communism will impact Russia's culture and economic future.  But these mild  criticisms do not greatly impact was is an important and interesting work.	2000-01-28
US	52914552	R3JHP1F9QMIJC5	0201624702	3382776	How Washington Really Works	Books	5	14	16	N	N	A dark but honest portrayal of our democracy	I've talked about this book with other people who have read it and the consensus is that it is a cynical book that doesn't educate the reader.  But personally, I would rather read a book that is skeptical and willing to  explain the problems of Washington to the reader than pretend that  everything is fine and dandy while the problems fester.  I agree with Mr.  Peters that the bottom line is that there is a lack of accountability in  the nation's capital.  Mr. Peters understands that human beings are  rational, intuitive creatures.  The thing that was so crucial to the  constitution and its success was its ability to get people to work in their  own interests but channel that energy into constructive ends.  What struck  me after reading this book was that our current institutions act in the  same rational manner but they have been misdesigned to reward  unconstructive ends.  America doesn't face a crisis, mind you.  I dislike  it when people raise alarm needlessly.  But I feel that without an  intelligent discussion about what our government can an should be, we face  the prospect of national stagnation or worse.	2000-01-20
US	52914552	RZJQO5Q73DAIZ	0684845598	273724840	Hardball: How Politics Is Played, Told by One Who Knows the Game	Books	5	2	4	N	N	A book that works because it knows what it wants to do	As a book, &quot;Hardball&quot; works because its simple.  It lists the rules of political victory, provides a funny story, a little insight, and then moves on.  I can see why this book is so popular among young and inspiring politicos.  It won't change the way you see the world, but it  will help you see the world you know more clearly.	2000-01-09
US	52914552	R27JA6K86KWPSA	1882577639	555381180	A New Deal for Social Security	Books	4	10	13	N	N	Our best hope for Social Security reform	If you are a believer in the privatization of Social Security, then you will not find a better defender than the pages of this book.  More importantly, the points of this book are so powerful that it can honestly change the opinions of others.  The privitization scheme endorsed by the  authors should be adopted immediately after the 2000 election.   Nevertheless, I'm also familiar with political reality.  It will take many  years maybe even a decade or two before common sense prevails over  political exprediency.  But hopefully, this persuasive book will speed the  process along.	2000-01-09
US	52914552	R18U4C55JW5AA1	0684837781	15221511	Dead Center: Clinton-Gore Leadership and the Perils of Moderation	Books	3	13	18	N	N	A book that misses the point	This is a good but seriously flawed book.  As a history of the Clinton administration, this is probably the best book on the market right now.  But then again, there aren't many books that seek to define the Clinton era, considering that we are still in it.  But, according to the authors,  this is not the theme of the book.  Instead, the reader is supposed to come  to the conclusion that &quot;centrism&quot; - the political ideology of  Bill Clinton- is misplaced, and even dangerous.  The authors never prove  this.  What is actually proved is the anger of the authors at President  Clinton's abandonment of liberalism.  The authors harp on the need for  &quot;transformation leadership&quot; but scorn Clinton's best attempt at  this approach - welfare reform.  Why?  Not because it wasn't radical (it  was) but because it didn't fit with the authors' ancient ideology.  The  fact that they see Hillary CLinton as the president's most important and  benevlent political adviser is all you need to know about that.   Nevertheless, this book is a good start for the debate over the Clinton  administration.  But it is not the last word.	2000-01-09
US	52914552	R1NIHRCKAMG4U9	068482700X	660966229	THEY ONLY LOOK DEAD: Why Progressives Will Dominate the Next Political Era	Books	4	15	23	N	N	Liberalism's best hope is this book	I have given this book a very high rating although ironically, I do not agree with its thesis.  Progressives (code-word for &quot;liberals&quot;) will not dominate the next political era.  Anyone studying the past decade can see that the trends of history are moving in the completely opposite  direction of Hillary Clinton and Ted Kennedy.  Nevertheless, Dionne is such  a lucid writer and his book is so crammed with interesting facts, that he  comes as close to proving his thesis as any liberal possibly can.  I  appreciate that.  His pen is liberalism's best hope.	2000-01-09
US	52914552	R27NYQIYJJHSX1	0345383044	618631054	Jihad vs. McWorld: Terrorism's Challenge to Democracy	Books	3	6	9	N	N	Decide for yourself	I have mixed feelings about this book.  I think that it raises important questions about the roles that consumerism and factionalism play in our world.  At the same time, I agree with the other reviewers who point out that the author is too grim and misunderstands much of the benefits of  global capitalism.  But give the author credit in recognizing that that the  wave of history is in our favor.  Mr. Barber does well as a voice of  caution.  His book is worth reading.  Just take it with a grain of salt.	2000-01-09
US	52914552	RFLHCIZ8BTLEZ	0671778773	463539565	Why Americans Hate Politics: The Death of the Democratic Process	Books	5	9	9	N	N	An explanation for how we got where we are	Looking at some of the negative reviews on this page, I have to wonder whether these readers read the same book I did.  I though Dionne's book was a political opus and the large number of awards it has received encourages my judgement.  What Dionne explains is how we got to where we are today (or  at least to 1992 when the book was written).  This includes the ideological  spectrum, the travels of each political party, and most importantly, why  our people are so disgusted with politics.  Because he is a liberal,  Dionne's criticisms of his ideology and his explanations for the political  failure of liberalism are particularly credible and insightful.  I heartily  recommend this book.  If you share my opinion, see Robert Samuelson's  &quot;The Good Life and Its Discontents.&quot;	2000-01-09
US	52914552	RHZU4S38FQUM4	0394555082	642527170	Dutch: A Memoir of Ronald Reagan	Books	4	2	5	N	N	The definitive bography of Ronald Reagan	If you wish to understand Ronald Reagan you will not find a better book than &quot;Dutch.&quot;  This is not a history of his presidential administration or a critique of conservativism.  It is about &quot;Dutch&quot; - the man.  There is very little of Mr. Morris's  complimantary charcater.  And more importantly, he provides the reader with  a clear barricade between fact and fiction.  Of course, I believe the book  would have been better off without this imaginary character.  All it did  was add fodder for his critics, many of them Republicans.  I'll never  understand this because the book is very complimantary of Reagan.  The  prose is outstanding, although there is less &quot;biographical  insight&quot; than I would have expected.  Mr. Morris completely leaves out  the years from 1976 to 1980 for no reason, which hurts.  The book, of  course, has flaws.  But Mr. Morris provides a book that is worthy of his  many literary honors.	2000-01-09
US	52914552	R23HFA6LVO9JAB	0688167551	501272377	Bill and Hillary: The Marriage	Books	2	8	13	N	N	No depth beneath all the mud	What purports to be a serious journalistic exercise is really an artwork of mud-wracking.  If you're looking for juicy gossip, its here.  But most of the charges are silly and unsubstantiated.  Somebody says Bill Clinton  has a sexual disease because he claims to have seen his medical records.   Who is this person?  How would he get his medical records?  Is there  anybody who can back this up?  Spare me.	2000-01-09
US	52914552	R3N41OG70T3PCL	0316929190	838798147	All Too Human: A Political Education	Books	5	32	37	N	N	A must for political readers	I will make a bold statement: this is the best book by a political insider that has ever been written.  First, Mr. Stephanopoulus should seriously consider a second career as a novelist.  His writing is lucid; his physical descriptions vivid; and his self-analysis revealing.  Second,  Stephanopoulus perfectly captures what it was like to work in the Clinton  White House.  His public visibility gives his words great credibility and  his willingless to admit mistakes and shortcomings is laudable.  You fel as  if you are personally traveling with George through a maze of political  difficulties and rewards.  You'll also feel closer to Bill Clinton,  understanding him better as a person and appreciating his flaws and  achievements as a president.  All in all, the best political book of the  year.	2000-01-09
US	52914552	RCNE6J4MU2BDL	0684852624	378132672	Shadow: Five Presidents and the Legacy of Watergate	Books	4	3	5	N	N	Not Woodward's best work but good nonetheless	Call me smart or arrogant but I feel as if I knew most of the details in Woodward's book, especially in reveiew of the Clinton administration.  But Woodward disguises his lack of new information with his clever prose (fact  or fiction? who knows?) and his solid analysis, especially of the  impeachment episode.  What particularly strikes you is the lunacy of the  whole independenct counsel law.  We had deliberately surrendered our  government to a crop of lawyers.  This naturally climaxed into the  outrageous Starr team which was both politically-inspired and as Woodward  says &quot;pathetic.&quot;	2000-01-09
US	52914552	R4A3YWBK9KUML	0380787857	192469622	Medical Racket	Books	4	1	2	N	N	A surprising conclusion to an informative book	Any critic of HMOs needs to read this book.  You will not find a better defender of your cause than Martin Gross, who also happens to be the most provocative political writer in America today.  However, his remedy for the  health care industry - a sort of political-community medical hybrid- only  covers the last few pages of the book.  This soultion, covered in little  detail, should cover at least one third of the book.  But because it  doesn't, I feel cheated of a real solution to Mr. Gross's gripes.  The real  conclusion that I drew is that the solution to health care lies not with  HMO destruction but with HMO reform.	2000-01-09
US	52914552	R3R1EAEV9HF1RU	0684814420	550791165	Hands Off: Why the Government is a Menace to Economic Health	Books	4	2	3	N	N	A excellent portrayal of Bad Government for the lay reader	This book is not an academic exercise.  The author is not trying to indoctrinate you into an esoteric economic theory.  Rather, she persuades the reader that the influence of government over economic life is severely limited.  Washington can have some impact, yes, but it's usually  misdirected and/or harmful.  This point is proved well and is an important  lesson for the next generation of government leaders.	2000-01-09
US	52914552	R30CWDC5G9B3B4	0700609512	388884818	The Reagan Effect: Economics and Presidential Leadership	Books	3	7	8	N	N	A good book which could have been better	If you are looking for an honest, non-ideological study of the Reagan administration, your search begins and ends with this book.  The author scores points with the reader for his honesty and willingless to consider new facts.  I think that his final conclusion - that Reagan was both  politically and economically sucessful - is true.  The author proves the  first point completely but the second one only modestly.  I would have  preferred that Mr. Sloan provide a more completely analysis on the economic  afffects of Reagonomics, but perhaps that isn't his specialty.  In any  event, this will probably be the best book you'll find on Reaganomics  politically but hopefully, another book will take up the economic front  more completely.	2000-01-09
US	52914552	R36XKOOVWZ71Q3	0679781528	959845637	The Good Life and Its Discontents: The American Dream in the Age of Entitlement	Books	5	22	24	N	N	A colorful analysis of American society	This was one of the most intelligent, original, and colorful books that I have read this year.  Most of the author's points are right on the mark.  The great mystery of our time for political analysts is the large gap  between peoples' evident satisfaction with their own life and their  overwhelming disappointment with public life.  Mr. Samuelson not only is  perceptive enough to point out this overlooked paradox but diagnoses it  well.  This will be certainly a bold challenge for the next generation of  public leaders.	1999-11-30
US	52914552	RZ6RM83PCLO4M	0812931394	319147812	First Son: George W. Bush and the Bush Family Dynasty	Books	3	7	14	N	N	A respectable, but somewhat unfulfilling, biography	I enjoy reading biographies immensely and I have to say that as far as biographies go, this one was disappointing.  There was hardly any new information on George W. Bush in this book.  More importantly, there was no  real analysis of the main character.  The author never really seeks to  understand or explore his subject.  I really hope that another biography of  &quot;The First Son&quot; comes out soon.  There is much room for  improvement.	1999-11-30
US	52914552	R24CM0HQKCBT5	0895263262	653692520	Gore: A Political Life	Books	3	6	9	N	N	A partisan, but asurprisingly worthy, biography	There is little question about the author's feelings in this book.  He obviously doesn't like Al Gore.  But the fact that Mr. Zelnick is so candid about his partisanship is refreshing.  He doesn't pretend to be objective.   And there is actually a lot of interesting information contained within it.   This is by no means the &quot;definitive&quot; biography of the  vice-president but I think that it contributes well to the political  dialogue.  A good read if you appreciate it's limitations.	1999-11-30
US	52914552	R1L9C1PA24W7U	0380720027	218105535	The End of History and the Last Man	Books	5	27	39	N	N	A must-read even for the lay public	This book deeply impressed me.  Before I started reading it, I was skeptical concerning the author's views.  But after completing it I can only nod my head in full agreement.  Not only does he do an excellent job  in articulating and defending his position, the seven years that have  passed since the book's publication confirm the trends that he describes.  In addition, Mr. Fukuyama is a wonderful writer in that his writing style  flows almost like a story.  Finally, I would hate to think that potential  readers would be reluctant to buy the book fearing that its prognosis for  society is a negative one.  On the contrary, the message is optimistic.  Even inspirational.  I would recommend this book even for people who have  no interest in history, politics, sociology, or even reading for that  matter.  Enjoy.	1999-08-08
US	52914552	RKK7MZGZIBYS	0684818906	668866041	First in His Class: A Biography Of Bill Clinton	Books	5	19	26	N	N	A solid perspective on a much-misunderstood man	&quot;First in His Class&quot; is the best in a huge pile of books on the  forty-second president of the United States.  I appreciated Maraniss's  ability to keep himself politically neutral throughout the book and he did  an excellent job in recreating President Clinton's life through interviews  with his wide networks of family, friends, and enemies.  Of course, after  reading Maraniss's book the reader has to confront the question: Who is  Bill Clinton?  And, to put it frankly, is he a good man or a bad man?  The  conclusion I reached is that while Clinton is not a great man in a personal  (Lincoln, King) or historical (Napoleon, Lenin) sense, he is far from a  figure who should be maligned.  In fact, even in the height of the Lewinsky  scandal, he remains a man worthy of admiration.  Bill Clinton was  determined even as a young man to take residence in the Oval office and he  accomplished that against often impossible odds.  Putting aside his  incredible ambition for the moment, he is a person with a quiet and  undeniable honor as well.  His strong feelings concerning civil rights and  Vietnam in the 1960s can not be explained by political shrewdness but only  through deep moral concern.  In conclusion, Maraniss' book is a must-read  for the political junkie.  Your opinion of the president will be more  comprehensive even if it is not much-changed.	1998-09-25
US	52914552	R18UT0B8KB6MIW	0684835541	155478329	One World Ready or Not: The Manic Logic of Global Capitalism	Books	5	3	4	N	N	An important  book on a much-neglected subject	William Greider once again invites his readers to explore a world beyond the Beltway.  His book is informative, provacative, and at the same time unlikely to disturb the sleep of our leaders in Washington and New York.  Even in the midst of an economic recovery, it is important to take Greider's warnings to heart.  I hope other readers enjoyed the book as much as I did.	1998-03-18
US	52914552	RAITHIIZZJ5W2	1887208011	965977626	When Corporations Rule the World	Books	5	1	3	N	N	A must-read book	This is one of the greatest non-fiction books that I have had the priviledge of reading.  Korten , more than any other author, reveals the inane logic of global capitalism.  I can only hope that Korten reaches a wide-enough audience to educate those who blindly place their faith in the &quot;invisible hand&quot;, or as I see it, the &quot;visible fist.&quot;	1998-02-28
