US	52911441	R4P0DQG13MT8W	0425201473	477032746	Joint Task Force #4: Africa	Books	5	10	12	N	N	AFRICA TOMORROW IN A SUPER-CHARGED TALE	It's fascinating to read a military adventure set in future Africa because most American authors rely on the Middle East or Asia for their terror/thriller plots. What's even more fascinating is David Meadows' insight into his African and Muslim characters. The ruthless forces of the African National Army could be the rebels in today's Congo or the radicals in Darfus. What Meadows so brilliantly brings to light is the psyche and experience that gives birth to their horrific disrespect for life and their desperate desire for power. In the tragedies and evil plaguing today, we all share a part in their evolution because of our apathy to the genocides occurring worldwide. What the author presents in this novel is the ultimate consequence to ignoring Africa's cry for help, and the Americans in particular will reap what they sow. Set against this historical backdrop of possibilities, Meadows portrays the heroism of those least known: reconnaissance crews. These are not sexy Seals or Navy fighter pilots that populate most military thrillers. His characters represent the backbone of your \\"ordinary,\\" \\"average,\\" even mundane, grunts of the corps, who in the performance of their duties make up the dedicated service that protects and defends everything the United States believes in and represents: a world free of tyranny. And in doing their duty risk their lives every day without hesitation. That's Meadow's mission in his goal to entertain the reader: to remind the world that ordinary people transform into extraordinary heroes under crisis. \\"Africa\\" also wraps up Meadows' series on the JOINT TASK FORCE.<br /><br />In a new Naval-Marine TV series based on Meadows' novels, Gene Hackman fits the role of cigar-smoking Admiral Dick Holman, and placing the setting of these series in the future on the African continent would at last bring Americans to a greater understanding of this neglected and ignored connection to its own history of African-Americans. Just as JAG brings the issues of today's war on terrorism to the forefront as well as gives American forces a platform to air their experiences and concerns, Meadows' vision can educate as well as entertain what may face America in ten short years from now. It's reality in a fictional format and ideal for TV audiences.<br /><br />(...) This is Class-A writing at its nerve-wracking best. You've written another hit, Capt. Meadows. What are you going to do for an encore? I'm really looking forward to your next series.y's war on terrorism to the forefront as well as gives American forces a platform to air their experiences and concerns, Meadows' vision can educate as well as entertain what may face America in ten short years from now. It's reality in a fictional format and ideal for TV audiences.    (...) This is Class-A writing at its nerve-wracking best. You've written another hit, Capt. Meadows. What are you going to do for an encore? I'm really looking forward to your next series.	2005-04-16
US	52911441	RNO9TUXIO4F2Y	0425197999	750313211	Joint Task Force #3: France	Books	5	14	16	N	Y	Donald  P. Bellisario-Heads Up! Here's another TV series win	David E. Meadows has not only established himself as today's prolific author of military thrillers, he has stamped a style that TV producer Donald P. Bellisario loves. His characters have a sense of humor in the midst of dire circumstances. It's a playfulness that Bellisario hires scriptwriters to inject into each of his military TV series-currently JAG and NCIS. In his Joint Task Force series, Meadows develops ongoing characters, whom we meet in each book, depending on their mission or circumstance. We live with them. We feel for them. And they age just like us through the series as their responsibilities and duties draw them into even riskier missions, so we cheer them on, as real men doing impossible jobs. This is an endless expectation of the military since many of their political bosses have no similar experience or training to base their orders on. I saw this for myself on a magazine assignment with Canadian peacekeepers following the Rwanda genocide in 1994. Just the replacement of a small part to keep a lift truck running becomes a crisis that requires miracle intervention and innovative thinking in `tactical' settings-you can't call them `combat' when the parties aren't officially at war. And so Meadows' people survive doing the impossible while protecting the United States from terrorists and power-hungry allies.<br /><br />What has fascinated me through the Joint Task Force series is the rivalry with France along with the ongoing battle against terrorism. Most military and spy thrillers writers target potential enemies in Middle East or Asian countries, such as China and North Korea, whereas Meadows tackles a so-called ally. As I observed in Rwanda firsthand, the treachery of France is a realistic possibility.<br /><br />Aside from the background of Meadows' writing, he's a `top gun' storyteller. In this book, \\"France,\\" he opens with a blood-curdling scene that begins with this dialogue, \\"I know what you're doing.\\" What is the culprit doing? Stealing plans for a laser weapon the U.S. Navy is developing. Who is running the spy? France. Why? Because France wants to shake up the balance of power in the world. Of course, none of this is revealed in the first chapter. The greedy technician kills two fellow workers to keep from being discovered and just as you think he's going to get away with it and live in luxury the rest of his life, he's arrested before he reaches the airport. How did the CIA know what he was up to and why did they wait until after he killed innocent bystanders to capture him? As you find in this example, Meadows holds the reader to every page with strings of suspense that unwind in snippets of revelations, and leaves you at the end with the question, What if France drew the U.S. into war over Africa? Now you can find out. The last of this series, AFRICA, has just been released.plans for a laser weapon the U.S. Navy is developing. Who is running the spy? France. Why? Because France wants to shake up the balance of power in the world. Of course, none of this is revealed in the first chapter. The greedy technician kills two fellow workers to keep from being discovered and just as you think he's going to get away with it and live in luxury the rest of his life, he's arrested before he reaches the airport. How did the CIA know what he was up to and why did they wait until after he killed innocent bystanders to capture him? As you find in this example, Meadows holds the reader to every page with strings of suspense that unwind in snippets of revelations, and leaves you at the end with the question, What if France drew the U.S. into war over Africa? Now you can find out. The last of this series, AFRICA, has just been released.	2005-03-02
US	52911441	RQ3V4AUVOR3G7	0451213467	750839879	Shadows of War	Books	5	8	8	N	Y	Supersonic Storytelling	In \\"Shadows of War,\\" Robert Gandt proves he is the top gun of military thriller writers. He is such a skilled storyteller that all elements of his novel writing weave seamlessly together creating characters and scenes that come alive so clearly that readers become locked in Brick Maxwell's world of international crises, combat flying and political betrayal. In this story, Brick's loyalties and integrity are stretched to their maximum, and the deceitfulness of the CIA almost gets him killed on a rescue mission to extract his former squadron mate from behind terrorist lines on the Iraqi-Iran border. Declared missing in action in the first Gulf War and then dead, his friend has been held as a secret prisoner of war for 13 years by the Iraquis, who now offer him up in exchange for a captured terrorist leader as influential as Bin Laden. Why was Brick's flying buddy held back when it was believed all American pilots were released at the end of the Gulf War? How does the POW's remarried wife deal with his return? Brick understands her dilemma because the CIA agent-husband of the woman he loves has also returned from the dead. What will she decide? Gandt draws on the yin-yang of love and war in a plot made even more credible with his panoramic perspective of the war on terror, the Western and Middle East players involved and the U.S. military's delicate role in containing catastrophic conflicts that threaten global stability. Enemies are human, and allies, flawed. It is the nature of warriors and war. It is also part of the terrible tragedy of war, and if readers have never spent a day in combat service, Gandt's characters open your eyes and heart to their unique dedication to service and each other as well as to the few who dishonor them. Above all, his descriptions of flying the various aircraft, but especially the Super Hornet, are so simple yet detailed that I, for one, feel that if I ever find myself in the cockpit of an F-18, I just may be able to land this majestic bird. At least I wouldn't be afraid to try. For me, Robert Gandt is in a class of his own, and readers can expect five-star entertainment from him every time.bird. At least I wouldn't be afraid to try. For me, Robert Gandt is in a class of his own, and readers can expect five-star entertainment from him every time.	2004-11-29
US	52911441	R27LNV7PRX90SP	0425192067	682931359	Joint Task Force - Liberia	Books	5	4	4	N	Y	Above the Pack	Captain David E. Meadows rises to the top of the military thriller with Joint Task Force: Liberia. His growing mastery of suspense and characterization captures the reader with his opening sentence: \\"Ullma pulled the children closer.\\" From here, he delves into the terror of ordinary citizens and children suddenly pitched into the lap of rebel extremists without a lifeline in Liberia. He not only paints the resulting American military rescue scenes with realism and true-to-life dialogue, he presents an interesting political scenario that nails the hidden agenda of a so-called ally: France. This is an author who knows the insides-out of  his subject and gives us a fly-on-the-wall view of real possibilities in a world that now rocks with anti-Americanism. For this reason he stands apart from Tom Clancy and is building his own throne in military fiction. Kudos for the first of his Joint Task Force series. Can't wait to read the rest.	2004-11-12
US	52911441	R30W2DIN37B1EE	0553583530	422203864	Lady Justice	Books	5	4	4	N	Y	Scary Plot	Garbrielle Kincaid is arrogant, hard-assed and flip. At least that's the image she presents to the world. She's not a typical Vicki Hines' heroine, but as Vicki peels away her layers to reveal her true vulnerabilities, to partner agent Max Grayson and to the reader, she becomes a multi-faceted character. While rich in contradictions, she is totally dedicated to her role as a secret agent who works for an elite covert unit known only to the president. It's called the Special Detail Unit, and the SDU is so clandestine that it's not even on other intelligence agencies' radar. Kincaid prefers to work alone because she doesn't want to endanger other operatives if she makes a mistake or fails to achieve her mission. Why is this her major concern? In this intelligence group, instead of agents electing to swallow a cyanide tablet to prevent their giving away vital information about their mission and other operatives when they are captured, SDU assigns another agent to eliminate their own to make sure no one finds out about the unit's existence. So, when Kincaid blows her cover while investigating terrorists who have already planted a lethal virus at strategic points around the United States, the president, who is also Kincaid's best friend, orders Grayson to terminate her. But, first he has to debrief Kincaid and find out everything she's learned about the terrorists, who, if they are successful, will cause millions to die around the world as the virus spreads. This sets the stage for a sizzling-paced thriller and suspenseful romance, but the clock zips up another notch when Kincaid falls victim to the virus and can't remember what she knows. Can Grayson save her? Enter the \\"Ladies of Carnel Cove,\\" a team of SDU undercover operatives masquerading as local society ladies. This story could have dissolved into a romp, but Vicki keeps tight control of the plot while establishing a string of characters for future thrillers based on SDU missions. An exceptional work and top-rated read. Congratulations, Vicki! You've written another masterpiece.read. Congratulations, Vicki! You've written another masterpiece.	2004-11-03
US	52911441	R1XZ10Q1617LP6	0373513267	275859339	Body Double (Bombshell)	Books	5	8	8	N	Y	Sizzling Galvanizing Suspense	In this first of Vicki Hinze's WAR GAMES series, she has achieved such a grabber that it's difficult to wait for the next three books to come out. From tbe first sentence--\\"They were going to kill her.\\"--BODY DOUBLE begins with a heart-stopping torture scene in the Middle East that immediately reveals Amanda West's courage, passionate belief in her country, survival spirit and greatest fear, as her terrorist captors bury her alive in a tomb. When she awakens and escapes from the tomb, she discovers she's close to her home in the U.S., and three months of her life have disappeared while someone kept her alive on intravenous while buried underground. How could she be buried in the Middle East and awaken in the U.S.? Against the backdrop of current hostage taking in Iraq, this opening scene brings to life the terrible risks and terror military, diplomat, aid workers and civilians endure to fight the war on terrorism in the Middle East and Afghanistan. That Amanda survives her ordeal is only by the grace of her captor, who, she learns, intends to use her in his diabolical plot to insert doubles of field agents working in all sectors of the U.S. intelligence community. How can she stop this monster and save her country from economic ruin? That's the question that drives each word and keeps you glued to every page until the very end when you realize the war of mind games and ultimate control is not over--like an octopus, this evil network called GRID can regrow new tentacles and reproduce successive leaders willing to martyr themselves to destroy the U.S.<br /><br />Woven into the plot is Amanda's inner issues of distrust. Every day she overcomes memories of her father's past abuse with determined willpower not to become a victim to anyone again. But a victim she becomes, when she finally opens her heart to one man who turns out to be an implanted double and not the fellow agent she believes he is. Can she ever trust again? It's a complex thriller of intrigue, betrayal and romance that Vicki weaves, making her a queen of the new subgenre devoted to the Amazon heroine faced with the demands made on today's women, whether in the military or elsewhere. They must be physically fit, brainy, self-sufficient and multi-talented in addition to being nurturing, compassionate, vulnerable women. A tough task that modern women meet with devoted passion every day and without accolades. I highly recommend this book. It's one of Vicki Hinze's most engaging reads, and for that reason I will not give away the plot in this review.and romance that Vicki weaves, making her a queen of the new subgenre devoted to the Amazon heroine faced with the demands made on today's women, whether in the military or elsewhere. They must be physically fit, brainy, self-sufficient and multi-talented in addition to being nurturing, compassionate, vulnerable women. A tough task that modern women meet with devoted passion every day and without accolades. I highly recommend this book. It's one of Vicki Hinze's most engaging reads, and for that reason I will not give away the plot in this review.	2004-10-27
US	52911441	R1P5ZJLWZPA7US	1932560637	438289539	The Mirror of Diana: A Novel of Love and War	Books	5	5	8	N	Y	Stirring Evocative Story	This is a magnificent tale told in stunning passion, and I agree with the reviewers who believe this could be turned into a beautiful movie. Set against a backdrop of Roman History in World War II, the ships of Caligula and the myths of Diana as well as the haunting characters take center stage, grab your heart and never let go. And the end of the story is handled with a masterful touch of literary suspense, even up to the last line. A.R. Homer is an author whose star is rising and I dearly look forward to his next book.<br /><br />Other reviewers have explained about the book so eloquently that I cannot add more to their descriptions except to say that I too loved this book and highly recommend it.	2004-08-27
US	52911441	R1FP8ANFY54JGA	1890862355	775306280	The Deadly Trade	Books	5	2	2	N	N	A &quot;Deadly&quot; Thriller	From the first page to the last, I found suspense through this second book by Ken Morris strikes like lightening. In a treacherous theme that ties the stock market to bioterrorism, recovering alcoholic Tim Mack takes up a new position as a financial analyst for a high-finance broker, which he discovers is linked to a biotechnology company in San Diego that mysteriously explodes. Those first on the scene die shortly afterwards from unknown causes that suggest a lethal virus was unleashed during the blast. Just skimming through the chapters, the heading treatments reveal an accelerating plot rushing to beat a catastrophic deadline like the television series \\"24.\\" Based on day-to-day and then hour-to-hour events, the novel opens on a street where the homeless live. Three men are promised $50.00 each if they can drink each other under the table at a party. This seduces them into a van that takes them to a lab where they are exposed to tainted air while eating porridge. The next day, local detective Bob Moore is faced with three John Doe bodies found together, and forensics can't figure out how they died such horrendous deaths. Is it murder or is it a sign of a 21st Century plague about to befall Californians?<br />At the same time, Mack begins his investigation into suspicious trading events of Isotopic Research, a drug company whose stock plunges after its research lab explodes and kills the scientists working inside. This sets up the plot that races to D-Day, Tuesday, February 6, in which Mack is trapped inside his firm's building where the deadly virus is to be launched and spread through the victims who inhale it, infect everyone who comes in contact with them and then die, thus killing thousands of people within 24 hours. The \\"anthrax test\\" must prove its intensified toxic power to Middle Eastern terrorists before they will pay for its delivery. Will Mack survive in time to save San Diego from a terrible disaster? It's a cliffhanger right up to the `reveal' of the unexpected mastermind behind the deadly drug deal.<br />Morris' vision of real possibilities is horrifying. It's also what makes his second novel a riveting page-turner.unexpected mastermind behind the deadly drug deal. <br />Morris' vision of real possibilities is horrifying. It's also what makes his second novel a riveting page-turner.	2004-07-03
US	52911441	R3VI5URXHHLBZO	1591298741	725634923	Le Fin (Lambert)	Books	5	2	2	N	Y	Superb Cuisine of Seductive Suspense	What more can anyone say after so many rave reviews? Victoria Taylor Murray has achieved what so many writers only dream about--readers who love her books and want more. This series is the kind of reading you savor for that get-away time at the cottage or long train or plane ride, and if you are lucky enough to go on a cruise, having VTM along to read is another bit of wonderful entertainment to enjoy. As other reviewers advise, the best treat you can give yourself is to buy the entire series so you don't have to wait, as everyone else did, for your next novel to come out. Thank you, Victoria, for giving us a romping good time. Now, how long do we have wait for another series like this one? Not long, I hope.	2004-07-03
US	52911441	RVCT6YYQSHN6G	1400041074	891369436	A Sunday at the Pool in Kigali	Books	5	15	17	N	N	A Poignant Lament	A beautifully written story, which is more autobiography than fiction, but I suspect no newspaper was interested in this journalist's eye-witness account of a people betrayed in a preventable Holocaust. Cushioning what happened in Rwanda in a work of fiction is the only catharsis Gil Courtemanche could achieve. In his dedication of the book, he names those in real life whom he does not disguise with pseudonyms in the actual story, and as it turns out, the lovely but tragic Gentille was a very real person. Originally written in French, none of this journalist's imagery and lyrical phraseology is lost in Patricia Claxton's English translation. Maybe she even enhanced it.<br />At first, Courtemanche's description of the Canadian UN Force Commander as the \\"weak general\\" angered me for, from today's perspective, it is an unfair judgment, but if I were in this journalist's shoes at the same time in history with the same background knowledge he had then, I too would have been furious at the UN general's apparent ineffectiveness to prevent the genocide of a race, the Tutsis, and their moderate Hutu sympathizers by extremist Hutus that followed. I was in Rwanda in 1994 covering the humanitarian relief program for UNIMIR. I arrived at a time when we finally had a different perspective of this \\"weak general.\\" The UN refused to give him permission to take action, and he has suffered inconsolable guilt as a result. Nevertheless, this \\"weak\\" general risked his life and his career to stay with the people he came to love by disobeying the UN's command to come home once the genocide began. He was told to let the civil war take care of itself. He and his small Canadian Force willingly disobeyed orders and refused to leave, and he telephoned a Canadian CBC broadcaster every night so the News Room could hear the screams as he gave a nightly report. Eventually the Tutsi rebels achieved what the UN did not-overthrew the barbarian hordes orchestrating the genocide-to make it safe for replacement UN Forces to land in Kilgali. Millions of Hutus, fearing retribution, flooded the borders of Zaire and finally grabbed the attention of CNN. By this time, the UN and Canadian Military did not dare court martial the general and his small band of Canadian peacekeepers, who stayed and risked massacre to bring humanitarian relief and eventual retribution. This general was not &quot;weak.&quot; His UN masters--particularly the US and France on the Security Council--made him and his UN mission powerless. There's a great difference. Maj. General Romeo Dallaire (whom Courtemanche never names in the story) had courage few military commanders on UN missions have shown today. I feel Courtemanche could have added a footnote, as he does with many historical explanations for what he writes, to clarify his original perception of the \\"weak general.\\"<br />Once I read the story I had to leave it until I could deal with the memories in writing a review of  \\"A Sunday at the Pool in Kilgali.\\" The love story of a Canadian foreign correspondent, Bernard Valcourt, and the beautiful Hutu, Gentille, who had Tutsi features and elegance, is set against the societal corruption exemplified by those who gather around the local hotel pool: relief workers, Belgian peacekeepers, Rwandan middle-class, refugees and prostitutes. Here, the middle-aged Valcourt observes the disintegration of society turning on itself, while the adoring love of his much younger amour brings him alive. They plan their wedding in the midst of carnage, but eventually he can't protect her. During an escape attempt, members of the Hutu militia assault him and capture Gentille. In real life, Courtemanche never learned what happened to Gentille, but Valcourt finds her after the genocide ends-a ruined, broken woman dying of AIDS, who begs Valcourt to leave her to die in peace.<br />The love story takes on a life of its own as Valcourt attempts to explain what is happening to the world around him that's falling apart. There are many passages like these: \\"Watch out-men are turning into dogs and worse still than dogs and worse still than hyenas or the vultures on the wind making circles in the sky above an unwary herd.\\"<br />In light of death, Courtemanche emerges a philosopher. The `white' man tries to teach the African to live, while he waits to die--most often because of AIDS. What the `white' man fails to realize, he writes, is that you can live only if you know you are going to die. Says one character, Cyprien: \\"You think we don't value life as much as you. So tell me, Valcourt, poor and deprived as we are, why do we take in our cousins' orphans, and why do our old people die with all their children around them?\\"<br />There is much we can learn from the people we marginalize in Africa.re are many passages like these: \\"Watch out-men are turning into dogs and worse still than dogs and worse still than hyenas or the vultures on the wind making circles in the sky above an unwary herd.\\"<br />In light of death, Courtemanche emerges a philosopher. The `white' man tries to teach the African to live, while he waits to die--most often because of AIDS. What the `white' man fails to realize, he writes, is that you can live only if you know you are going to die. Says one character, Cyprien: \\"You think we don't value life as much as you. So tell me, Valcourt, poor and deprived as we are, why do we take in our cousins' orphans, and why do our old people die with all their children around them?\\"<br />There is much we can learn from the people we marginalize in Africa.	2004-07-03
US	52911441	R2KRL09N6VKBSE	0743436814	356979924	Remembrance Day	Books	5	2	2	N	Y	Engrossing and Highly Plausible Thriller	In this debut novel, Henry Porter provides the grist of more seasoned spy thriller authors: a plausible and twisted plot, a worthy villain, protagonists with real-life depth and flaws, and scenes rich in detail in the Clancy or Ludlum tradition. The self-serving hypocrisy of government agencies becomes the villain's arch angel, as often occurs in real life tragedies such as 9/11. The only thing that prevented a dreadful tragedy in this novel was the tenacity of the detective who was determined to solve the crime on his beat no matter what, a woman's belief in the system she worked for became greater than her personal ambitions, and the victim of police &quot;profiling&quot;-- if your mother is a terrorist, you are automatically a terrorist. A stunning first novel and an absorbing read. Porter joins my growing list of favorite spy thriller writers. I now look forward to reading Porter's next novel, &quot;A Spy's Life.&quot;	2004-07-03
US	52911441	R1UKOBKGP3MDGD	1591298733	637901845	Friendly Enemies	Books	5	2	4	N	Y	Superb Cuisine of Seductive Suspense	What more can anyone say after so many rave reviews? Victoria Taylor Murray has achieved what so many writers only dream about--readers who love her books and want more. This series is the kind of reading you savor for that get-away time at the cottage or long train or plane ride, and if you are lucky enough to go on a cruise, having VTM along to read is another bit of wonderful entertainment to enjoy. As other reviewers advise, the best treat you can give yourself is to buy the entire series so you don't have to wait, as everyone else did, for your next novel to come out. Thank you, Victoria, for giving us a romping good time. Now, how long do we have wait for another series like this one? Not long, I hope.	2004-07-03
US	52911441	RAH0JOUA12TB	158851594X	45374405	Forbidden (The Lambert Series, Book 2)	Books	5	3	6	N	Y	Superb Cuisine of Suspense and Seduction	What more can anyone say after so many rave reviews? Victoria Taylor Murray has achieved what so many writers only dream about--readers who love her books and want more. This series is the kind of reading you savor for that get-away time at the cottage or long train or plane ride, and if you are lucky enough to go on a cruise, having VTM along to read is another bit of wonderful entertainment to enjoy. As other reviewers advise, the best treat you can give yourself is to buy the entire series so you don't have to wait, as everyone else did, for your next novel to come out. Thank you, Victoria, for giving us a romping good time. Now, how long do we have wait for another series like this one? Not long, I hope.	2004-07-03
US	52911441	R3BZW93SRRBK18	1588515591	984149518	Thief of Hearts	Books	5	10	16	N	Y	Superb Cuisine of Suspense and Seduction	What more can anyone say after so many rave reviews? Victoria Taylor Murray has achieved what so many writers only dream about--readers who love her books and want more. This series is the kind of reading you savor for that get-away time at the cottage or long train or plane ride, and if you are lucky enough to go on a cruise, having VTM along to read is another bit of wonderful entertainment to enjoy. As other reviewers advise, the best treat you can give yourself is to buy the entire series so you don't have to wait, as everyone else did, for your next novel to come out. Thank you, Victoria, for giving us a romping good time. Now, how long do we have wait for another series like this one? Not long, I hope.	2004-07-03
US	52911441	RDH8M5UO6L45Y	0451204530	356134546	Code To Zero	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Superb Possibilities	There's one great strength of Follett's that some reviewers here don't mention. How do you get any better than with this opening line: \\"He woke up scared?\\" Are you compelled to read on? I certainly was. By the end, I enjoyed \\"Code to Zero\\" far more than \\"Jackdaws\\" whose characters seemed over-the-wall, though true life is often stranger than fiction so his motley WWII gang of women and homosexual spies may have been more realistic than we would assume. The only thing that stretched my disbelief in this novel was the speed in which the hero and NASA scientist recovered his memory as the 'clues' unlocked his drug-induced blocks. The good news is it has inspired me to read more about this amnesiac condition to find out if it could be so easily bypassed. There is no doubt Follet's masterful story telling talents are as gripping as ever even when readers complain about his treatment.	2004-07-03
US	52911441	R250SMIVTY1QZQ	1592869157	856083140	The Everlasting Mountains (Thorns in Eden Series #2)	Books	5	2	3	N	N	A CLASSIC AS GREAT AS 19th CENTURY NOVELS	Once again, Rita Gerlach moves into the realm of great historical romance with her tale of \\"The Everlasting Mountains,\\" a sequel to \\"Thorns in Eden.\\" She embraces the reader with what Vladimir Nabokov calls a \\"supreme fairy tale\\" about pre-revolution times set in 1774 Maryland by telling it in the voice of 19th Century novelists such as Gustave Flaubert, author of \\"Madame Bovary,\\" one of Nabokov's favorite examples of a classic masterpiece. Like Flaubert, from first word to last, Gerlach's imagery, characters, dialogue and plot engage the reader in a tapestry of unique surprises for the eye, the mind, the ear and the heart: \\"Yet her expression, momentarily steady, now bright, then uncertain, changed like the dappled ovals of light atop the water.\\" Other reviewers have dealt with the story of Rebecah Brent and John Nash at length. I only want to repeat that I believe \\"Thorns of Eden\\" and this sequel should be combined into one saga that will stand the test of time as a period classic covering the American Revolution. This is Gerlach's niche, and I look forward to more of her stories through this era that defines United States history. But more than Gerlach's significant contribution to Maryland's past is her contribution to American literature. Nabokov taught that \\"a great writer is always a great enchanter\\" for a work of art creates a new world, and in this novel, Rita Gerlach proves she is a master artist.	2004-04-25
US	52911441	R1H2GM0AP8Y7TU	0312301448	155794080	The Coil: A Novel (Liz Sansborough)	Books	5	6	10	N	N	Spiralling, Finger-Biting Suspense	Gayle Lynds strikes a best seller with THE COIL, her newest espionage thriller, and moves out of the shadow of her collaboration with Robert Ludlum to become her own star in this genre. While Ludlum proved he was a practical visionary who used his novels to warn the public of political corruption at the highest government levels and to portray the terrorist \\"raison d'etre,\\" he was also a master chess player more intrigued with the moves of the pawns in his plots than their substance. Through his characters, he expounded personal rhetoric. Lynds, on the other hand, brings more human dimension to the chess game of \\"what ifs\\" in her novels. She delves into specific psychological and physiological conditions, which interplay with her protagonists' inner conflicts and novels' plots, to educate her readers about real experiences that happen to real people. In her first three novels-Masquerade, Mosaic and Mesmerized-she has dealt with the effects of Asperger's syndrome, cellular memory and conversion disorder.<br />In THE COIL, Lynds explores the psychology of violence in the betrayal of the world's `haves' versus `have nots.' Heroine Liz Sanborough is a psychology professor, who is forced out of retirement to return to spying for the CIA to rescue the two people she loves most. At least she believes she is working for the CIA when her look-alike cousin, journalist Sarah Walker, and her CIA-agent husband, Asher Flores, are kidnapped in Paris. Their ransom? A disk of zipped files Liz's father compiled. They detail targets and clients he worked for as an independent hired assassin code-named Carnivore. Either before or after Carnivore died in an explosion, someone pilfered his files and is blackmailing powerful figures to manipulate the globalization of trade and multi-national mergers. The kidnappers believe Liz has them and want the files to launch their own agenda of control over the world's economies. As the bodies fall and the suspense builds, a maze of intrigue spirals into ever evolving deceptions that isolate Liz and force her to realize that the CIA is not running or protecting her and her cousins. Enter another of Liz's cousins, Simon Childs, an MI6 agent. He is also pursuing the Carnivore's files because he believes they will lead to his step-father's murderer. Together they search for the secret group of conspirators whose influence reaches up to their chiefs in the CIA and MI6. The closer they come to recovering Carnivore's files, however, the more \\"The Coil\\" isolates them until it finally traps them in its web of ultimate betrayal. Even if Liz and Simon find the files in time to save Sarah and Asher, \\"The Coil\\" cannot let any of them live to identify the members of its diabolical inner sanctum of world power.<br />Throughout the chase to find the files, Liz grapples with her longing to trust someone and her belief that violence begets violence. She refuses to carry a gun, determined to battle her adversaries with wit and surprise martial art moves, until her lack of firepower almost costs the lives of her cousins when she flubs a rescue attempt. At this point, the pros and cons to physical violence pitch Liz headlong into the realm of realistic possibilities. So, while suspense drives the reader to stick to the story until the very last page, it is impossible to close another Lynds' book without thinking about the underlying human condition her novel explores. After reading THE COIL for instance, where will we stand on the issues of violence, as a person and as a nation? How long can we afford to let the question go unanswered? THE COIL won't let us forget. And if we're not prepared to decide, Lynds shows us the consequences of our collective apathy in the real world. She goes beyond Ludlum's aim to entertain and makes us think, and in doing so, makes a difference in our lives. That's what great writing is all about.s into ever evolving deceptions that isolate Liz and force her to realize that the CIA is not running or protecting her and her cousins. Enter another of Liz's cousins, Simon Childs, an MI6 agent. He is also pursuing the Carnivore's files because he believes they will lead to his step-father's murderer. Together they search for the secret group of conspirators whose influence reaches up to their chiefs in the CIA and MI6. The closer they come to recovering Carnivore's files, however, the more \\"The Coil\\" isolates them until it finally traps them in its web of ultimate betrayal. Even if Liz and Simon find the files in time to save Sarah and Asher, \\"The Coil\\" cannot let any of them live to identify the members of its diabolical inner sanctum of world power. <br />Throughout the chase to find the files, Liz grapples with her longing to trust someone and her belief that violence begets violence. She refuses to carry a gun, determined to battle her adversaries with wit and surprise martial art moves, until her lack of firepower almost costs the lives of her cousins when she flubs a rescue attempt. At this point, the pros and cons to physical violence pitch Liz headlong into the realm of realistic possibilities. So, while suspense drives the reader to stick to the story until the very last page, it is impossible to close another Lynds' book without thinking about the underlying human condition her novel explores. After reading THE COIL for instance, where will we stand on the issues of violence, as a person and as a nation? How long can we afford to let the question go unanswered? THE COIL won't let us forget. And if we're not prepared to decide, Lynds shows us the consequences of our collective apathy in the real world. She goes beyond Ludlum's aim to entertain and makes us think, and in doing so, makes a difference in our lives. That's what great writing is all about.	2004-03-11
US	52911441	R3LQFDGKU972X0	0312986033	545051235	Masquerade	Books	5	1	2	N	Y	A Powderkeg of Suspense!	Move over Robert Ludlum! Gayle Lynds has beaten you at your own game, and with women protagonists who are flesh and blood characters in a breakneck-paced thriller that includes a developing love story through the many twists and turns in the conspiracy plot. The only thing I don't understand is why Hollywood hasn't grabbed this story. It's far better material for a movie than Ludlum's &quot;Osterman Weekend,&quot; in which his plot was so convoluted it was impossible to keep track of what was going on, who was doing what or why. I have finally found a woman author to replace my old favorite, Helen McInnes who preceded Ludlum. In her time, she was the queen of international intrigue, but in the 21st Century, that title now falls to Gayle Lynds.	2004-02-09
US	52911441	R2I5ZA94J8IK75	0804119724	447468621	Into the Night (Troubleshooters, Book 5)	Books	5	9	11	N	Y	Raise the Flag!	In this Navy SEAL tale, Suzanne Brockman may have captured the idiocyncracies of military personnel and their love interests too well for it seems to have disgruntled some reviewers. However, journalists who have been imbedded with the military in more recent terrorist conflicts can recognize how real her characters are. Mary Lou is more typical of some military wives than readers may care to know. Men who have lived through and seen horrible atrocities in their overseas missions need an understanding ear when they return home, but many don't find it, as Sam didn't, because their families and spouses can't cope with it. They end up battling the heroic image of a soldier, commando or SEAL--or top gun, sailor, marine-- and suppressing the real live person wearing the uniform. It's one of the chief reasons why the post traumatic disorder syndrome haunts so many of our military who have served time in the field. Accolades to Brockmann for combining romance with suspense plots that let our heroes and heroines emerge with human foibles, including a fat kid that morphs into a poster SEAL model and a woman so conditioned to appearances that yes, she would be concerned about how it would look and affect her career to fall in love with a hunk younger than herself and who doesn't fit into Washington's power circle and social set. And kudos to Brockmann for weaving a background storyline set in WWII through all her SEALS series. While civilians have become more cynical because of today's instant access to information, those who sign up to serve their country still hold the same values as their grandparents did and they still lay down their lives for the same patriotic reason. Laying parallel story lines like this help keep alive a memory of those who protected the freedoms we take for granted today. God bless them! And God bless Brockmann! This is another taunt page turner and deserves five stars.	2003-12-30
US	52911441	RKKZ9C6IOT5SO	0399149708	525228938	Bad Company (Higgins, Jack)	Books	3	0	1	N	Y	A Toss-Away Read!	Entertaining and interesting? Yes. A true thriller? Way too predictable to meet that standard. There's no real punch, no real suspense, no real  substance and no real characters. It's more like a fast-paced Harlequin read for men. In that respect, 'Bad Company'  meets Higgins' commercial goal, but with the number of new military thriller and suspense authors as well as authors like Ken Follett who still stretch their capabilities to achieve five-star thrillers, 'Bad Company' is truly disappointing.	2003-12-19
US	52911441	R32Z81M7WFGAZM	0451210743	712732369	Hornet Flight	Books	5	1	2	N	Y	The Master Has Returned!	Ken Follett's research has turned what could have been a very implausible plot into a daring possibility, and he has achieved it with ordinary people who, under unimaginable circumstances, discover the resources within themselves to do extraordinary things. Every detail reflects realism, for I too researched this era and the Danish Resistance for my novel and recognize the truth behind Follett's characters, setting, time and plot. I trained on an aircraft very similar to the Hornet Moth in 1965--a fabric and wood Canuck made in the 1930s that could not be insured and flew with just a joystick and rudders between me and destiny. People who have never flown a plane like this don't realize how remarkable they are--they fly in spite of you--and so all the flight sequences and the rebuilding of the Hornet ring absolutely true. Someone like Harold who had good reflexes and instincts could fly a Hornet as easily as he did in the escape to England, and Karen's understanding of flying, the structure and the mechanics of the aircraft is normal for a women who takes up flying because she really wants to do it, not because she has to do it like so many roles women have to play simply because they are female.<br />In telling this tale, Follett has captured why the Danish Resistance was so successful with very few captures where others in Occupied Europe were so corrupted that betrayal became a chronic cancer crippling their operations. Even the king displayed stoic courage while retaining dignity for himself and his country's citizens.<br />This is a true thriller and a spectacular read!	2003-12-08
US	52911441	R2XVYK9CQCW1MD	0451210662	943050379	Black Star	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Another Riveting Read	Bob Gandt has done it again! He takes us flying by the seat of our pants into another hair-raising thriller. This time he introduces us into stealth technology and what it feels like to fly a supersonic stealth fighter--to be visible one moment and invisible the next. It changes our whole concept of the aerial dog-fight. And again he develops a plot that is entirely possible in a world whose values are turning upside down between terrorism and the race for global power. Just as it happens in \\"Black Star,\\" when Taiwan pre-empts another world war with its retaliation against the threat of a Chinese invasion, a small power could trigger a colossal 'nuclear showdown.' It's a fair question to ask: Has China ever stopped being the West's enemy or is it just more insidious in hiding its expansionist ambitions toward Taiwan and the Pacific Rim while it gains economical strength and global status? Our economies woo China just as North American industrials wooed Nazi Germany prior to World War II. Are we playing into China's hands and will Gandt's book become a preview of what our next generation of top guns will be fighting?<br />It's the reality of the plot that makes Gandt's book so chilling at the same time as it showcases Brad Maxwell and his fighter team of F/A-18 Super Hornets. Again Gandt takes us inside Maxwell's cockpit to feel the maximum pull of gravity as 'we' maneuver in fight-to-the-death aerial combat. The thrill of the story and the plausibility of the plot are not Gandt's greatest strengths, however. It is his ability to carry readers inside the heads and experiences of what our fighting forces are currently experiencing in battles against the war on terrorism all over the world. He helps us understand why our military people put their lives on the line every day, and he brings home a sense of patriotism that, for North Americans, decades of complacency, political cynicism and living on the fast track lost. And he does this with page-turning urgency.<br />Bob Gandt has established himself as the Robert Ludlum of the military thriller, and I look forward to a prolific succession of Gandt books in the years to come.ob Gandt has established himself as the Robert Ludlum of the military thriller, and I look forward to a prolific succession of Gandt books in the years to come.	2003-11-30
US	52911441	R141MI5A492HN5	0974127205	417447146	Firewall	Books	5	1	2	N	N	FIVE STAR PLUS!!! Too real to be dismissed as pure fiction.	Douglas De Bono has done it again. He plays a terror theme against the backdrop of actual history, using historic figures we all know and remember well. Reading his novel is like being a fly on the wall of private government chambers. We eavesdrop on conversations no one is meant to hear...ever. De Bono's research is so meticulous that as much as past presidents and their inner circles might like to sue him, the truth is not liable, and they cannot challenge this daring author's replica of word-for-word discussions behind closed doors, for freedom of information rights have given him access to records that speak for themselves.<br />As much as a reviewer might be tempted to skim through this book, it's impossible, for every paragraph drips with such essential information that any point, if missed, destroys the reader's comprehension of the plot. As in his other books, De Bono's imagery is gripping, and the development of his characters wrings empathy for those who live in the secret world of commandos and government field agents. Their conditioning eventually whittles away their idealism, while they witness one political debacle after another yet become addicted to the adrenalin rush of battle in screwed-up `black' missions that should destroy them except for their tenacious will to survive and their love of home. For those in the darker worlds of black missions, there are two results: they either become as psychotic as those they work for or they rebel and become secret crusaders who use their black skills to turn the table on their corrupt masters.<br />FIREWALL covers the years between 1979 and 1989, and depicts De Bono's personal belief that \\"terrorism does not exist in a vacuum\\" but as an extension of Soviet desires to dominate the world during this period. Specifically, FIREWALL deals with three major events: 1) The Iranian hostage crisis, 2) Iran/Contra, and 3) Operation `Just Cause,' the Americans' invasion of Panama. In a struggle of wills between Iranian Mullahs and successive American presidents, Carter and Reagan, a secret war rages from isolated Iranian villages to Beirut's green line to the cocaine-soaked streets in Panama. Terrorist cells sponsored by Syria, Iran and Iraq bomb the Beirut Embassy twice, the U.S. Marine Battalion HQ and abduct western hostages. The task of defeating these terrorists falls to spymaster Louis Edwards and his dwindling cadre of operatives. They step across all legal boundaries only to be caught in a winner-take-all/take-no-prisoners free fire zone as the Iran/Contra scandal explodes across the headlines.<br />Through these events, De Bono spins his thrilling tale of intrigue and again outCLANCIES the master spinner of military thrillers, Tom Clancy. It's about time De Bono receives the recognition his brilliant writing deserves. This novel rates a FIVE STAR PLUS.Mullahs and successive American presidents, Carter and Reagan, a secret war rages from isolated Iranian villages to Beirut's green line to the cocaine-soaked streets in Panama. Terrorist cells sponsored by Syria, Iran and Iraq bomb the Beirut Embassy twice, the U.S. Marine Battalion HQ and abduct western hostages. The task of defeating these terrorists falls to spymaster Louis Edwards and his dwindling cadre of operatives. They step across all legal boundaries only to be caught in a winner-take-all/take-no-prisoners free fire zone as the Iran/Contra scandal explodes across the headlines. <br />Through these events, De Bono spins his thrilling tale of intrigue and again outCLANCIES the master spinner of military thrillers, Tom Clancy. It's about time De Bono receives the recognition his brilliant writing deserves. This novel rates a FIVE STAR PLUS.	2003-11-11
US	52911441	RES44XRC553JX	0974127205	417447146	Firewall	Books	5	4	6	N	N	FIVE STAR PLUS!!! Too real to dismiss as pure fiction.	Douglas De Bono has done it again. He plays a terror theme against the backdrop of actual history, using historic figures we all know and remember well. Reading his novel is like being a fly on the wall of private government chambers. We eavesdrop on conversations no one is meant to hear...ever. De Bono's research is so meticulous that as much as past presidents and their inner circles might like to sue him, the truth is not liable, and they cannot challenge this daring author's replica of word-for-word discussions behind closed doors, for freedom of information rights have given him access to records that speak for themselves. <br />As much as a reviewer might be tempted to skim through this book, it's impossible, for every paragraph drips with such essential information that any point, if missed, destroys the reader's comprehension of the plot. As in his other books, De Bono's imagery is gripping, and the development of his characters wrings empathy for those who live in the secret world of commandos and government field agents. Their conditioning eventually whittles away their idealism, while they witness one political debacle after another yet become addicted to the adrenalin rush of battle in screwed-up `black' missions that should destroy them except for their tenacious will to survive and their love of home. For those in the darker worlds of black missions, there are two results: they either become as psychotic as those they work for or they rebel and become secret crusaders who use their black skills to turn the table on their corrupt masters.<br />FIREWALL covers the years between 1979 and 1989, and depicts De Bono's personal belief that \\"terrorism does not exist in a vacuum\\" but as an extension of Soviet desires to dominate the world during this period. Specifically, FIREWALL deals with three major events: 1) The Iranian hostage crisis, 2) Iran/Contra, and 3) Operation `Just Cause,' the Americans' invasion of Panama. Through these events, De Bono spins histhrilling tale of intrigue and again outCLANCIES the master spinner of military thrillers, Tom Clancy. It's about time De Bono receives the recognition his brilliant writing deserves. This novel rates a FIVE STAR PLUS.	2003-11-11
US	52911441	R3D5962RJ35X8I	1592869165	17139777	Thorns in Eden (Thorns in Eden Series #1)	Books	5	6	8	N	N	A Distinctive Voice Rises in Historical Romance	Heroine Rebecah Brent embodies the heart of the American Revolution in &quot;Thorns in Eden,&quot; while her author, Rita Gerlach, embraces the life of a historical period that she is making her own with a voice America hungers to hear. She writes historical romance, but she achieves literary significance with lyrical imagery and an eclectic blend of language from yesteryear in a modern free flowing style that absolutely suits the period she writes about. Any page reflects it: &quot;On this first of May, 1773, the twilight air fell deep and cool, scented of budding leaves...The sky deepened and stars brightened...He was a gentleman of the old school, dressed in modest precision, in a buff blue coat and cream breeches, his shoes buckled, his linen shirt stark white and smelling of milled soap.&quot;<br />Every chapter rises and falls with dreams realized and love denied, with life and death dangling over every decision, brash courage racing headlong into jealousy, and steadfast faith pitted against vengeance. The pages fly by. It's impossible to put the book down, as the author catapults the reader into the colonial world of 1773, particularly the Maryland frontier of Fredericktowne and puritan England, where you are either loyal to the crown or you are a traitor. Yet, in the fervor of patriotism and a longing for liberty grows a love that deeply binds Rebecah Brent to her hero, John Nash, a young American who has come back to England to visit his parents on the eve of the Amercian Revolution. Everything conspires to keep them apart. First, Rebecah learns that it was Nash's sword that sliced her father's arm when Nash escaped from the Redcoats her father commanded in the colonies. A gangrenous infection sets in, and when her father returns to England to arrange Rebecah's marriage to a rich nobleman, he dies. Rebecah's mother has already died during a terrible sickness. Now orphaned, her uncle and his family take her in, and she feels obligated to carry out her father's wishes, to marry a man she despises. Nash begs her forgiveness, but in her grief, she stubbornly rejects him. And so he leaves Rebecah behind to a loveless marriage and returns brokenhearted to his farm in Maryland. Rebecah struggles to do what she believes is right, but the young man from America clouds her every thought. Just as Rebecah must decide whether she will secretly carry the gold Nash's dying father is sending to him to help finance the patriots' rebellion, the author splits the full story into two parts-Thorns in Eden and The Everlasting Mountains-but the reader doesn't want to wait for the \\"rest of the story.\\" This is a novel that begs to be told in one volume. J.K. Rowlings has proven readers will stick to a long book when they become enraptured with favorite characters and what happens to them. Rita Gerlach has written an equally gripping work, and I believe in time we will see these two sequels reprinted as one great epic. <br />In legendary literature, I find &quot;Thorns in Eden&quot; as definitive a saga as &quot;Gone with the Wind&quot; or &quot;North and South.&quot; What the name of Margaret Mitchell or John Jakes has come to mean about the Civil War, so also will Rita Gerlach's name become synonymous with the American Revolution to the patriot in every living soul, child or adult. Gerlach's historical fiction belongs in our schools, in our libraries and in our homes-it is a spiritual revelation as much as it is American history in living color-and has great potential for a television series based on the founding of the United States, at a time when Americans need to be reminded of the valor and moral fortitude their forefathers shared in bringing their dream of freedom to this land.	2003-11-10
US	52911441	R286BYXG5MUPQT	1592869165	17139777	Thorns in Eden (Thorns in Eden Series #1)	Books	5	2	3	N	N	A Brilliant New Talent in Historical Romance!	Heroine Rebecah Brent embodies the heart of the American Revolution in &quot;Thorns in Eden,&quot; while her author, Rita Gerlach, embraces the life of a historical period that she is making her own with a voice America hungers to hear. She writes historical romance, but she achieves literary significance with lyrical imagery and an eclectic blend of language from yesteryear in a modern free flowing style that absolutely suits the period she writes about. Any page reflects it: &quot;On this first of May, 1773, the twilight air fell deep and cool, scented of budding leaves...The sky deepened and stars brightened...He was a gentleman of the old school, dressed in modest precision, in a buff blue coat and cream breeches, his shoes buckled, his linen shirt stark white and smelling of milled soap.&quot;<br />Every chapter rises and falls with dreams realized and love denied, with life and death dangling over every decision, brash courage racing headlong into jealousy, and steadfast faith pitted against vengeance. The pages fly by. It's impossible to put the book down, as the author catapults the reader into the colonial world of 1773, particularly the Maryland frontier of Fredericktowne and puritan England, where you are either loyal to the crown or you are a traitor. Yet, in the fervor of patriotism and a longing for liberty grows a love that deeply binds Rebecah Brent to her hero, John Nash, a young American who has come back to England to visit his parents on the eve of the Amercian Revolution. Everything conspires to keep them apart. First, Rebecah learns that it was Nash's sword that sliced her father's arm when Nash escaped from the Redcoats her father commanded in the colonies. A gangrenous infection sets in, and when her father returns to England to arrange Rebecah's marriage to a rich nobleman, he dies. Rebecah's mother has already died during a terrible sickness. Now orphaned, her uncle and his family take her in, and she feels obligated to carry out her father's wishes, to marry a man she despises. Nash begs her forgiveness, but in her grief, she stubbornly rejects him. And so he leaves Rebecah behind to a loveless marriage and returns brokenhearted to his farm in Maryland. Rebecah struggles to do what she believes is right, but the young man from America clouds her every thought. Just as Rebecah must decide whether she will secretly carry the gold Nash's dying father is sending to him to help finance the patriots' rebellion, the author splits the full story into two parts-Thorns in Eden and The Everlasting Mountains-but the reader doesn't want to wait for the \\"rest of the story.\\" This is a novel that begs to be told in one volume. J.K. Rowlings has proven readers will stick to a long book when they become enraptured with favorite characters and what happens to them. Rita Gerlach has written an equally gripping work, and I believe in time we will see these two sequels reprinted as one great epic.<br />In legendary literature, I find &quot;Thorns in Eden&quot; as definitive a saga as &quot;Gone with the Wind&quot; or &quot;North and South.&quot; What the name of Margaret Mitchell or John Jakes has come to mean about the Civil War, so also will Rita Gerlach's name become synonymous with the American Revolution to the patriot in every living soul, child or adult. Gerlach's historical fiction belongs in our schools, in our libraries and in our homes-it is a spiritual revelation as much as it is American history in living color-and has great potential for a television series based on the founding of the United States, at a time when Americans need to be reminded of the valor and moral fortitude their forefathers shared in bringing their dream of freedom to this land.'s wishes, to marry a man she despises. Nash begs her forgiveness, but in her grief, she stubbornly rejects him. And so he leaves Rebecah behind to a loveless marriage and returns brokenhearted to his farm in Maryland. Rebecah struggles to do what she believes is right, but the young man from America clouds her every thought. Just as Rebecah must decide whether she will secretly carry the gold Nash's dying father is sending to him to help finance the patriots' rebellion, the author splits the full story into two parts-Thorns in Eden and The Everlasting Mountains-but the reader doesn't want to wait for the \\"rest of the story.\\" This is a novel that begs to be told in one volume. J.K. Rowlings has proven readers will stick to a long book when they become enraptured with favorite characters and what happens to them. Rita Gerlach has written an equally gripping work, and I believe in time we will see these two sequels reprinted as one great epic. <br />In legendary literature, I find &quot;Thorns in Eden&quot; as definitive a saga as &quot;Gone with the Wind&quot; or &quot;North and South.&quot; What the name of Margaret Mitchell or John Jakes has come to mean about the Civil War, so also will Rita Gerlach's name become synonymous with the American Revolution to the patriot in every living soul, child or adult. Gerlach's historical fiction belongs in our schools, in our libraries and in our homes-it is a spiritual revelation as much as it is American history in living color-and has great potential for a television series based on the founding of the United States, at a time when Americans need to be reminded of the valor and moral fortitude their forefathers shared in bringing their dream of freedom to this land.	2003-11-10
US	52911441	R19LBB766Z2Q2J	1591298733	637901845	Friendly Enemies	Books	5	74	76	N	Y	In a League of Her Own!	This is the first book I have read of Victoria Taylor Murray's series, but I'm immediately entranced with her extraordinary ability to entertain the reader, while revving up both suspense and romance, and her sense of humor. Even the heroine's name Nouri St. Charles Sommers had me expecting a spoof on \\"The Thin Man\\" series based on the 1930's murder mystery movies featuring Private Investigator Nick Charles, wife Nora, and their dog Astra. Instead, Victoria marches to her own drummer with captivating intrigue. Not a false pen stroke! The day will come when she will challenge Nora Roberts in popularity. And now I am going to have to read the first two books in the series so I can find out what happened before \\"Friendly Enemies\\" took place, and look forward to the next one.	2003-04-23
US	52911441	R17HJTKLECOXN6	0451207181	422761336	Acts of Vengeance	Books	5	15	17	N	N	Gutsy, Riveting Thriller	Robert Gandt has found another niche he can claim as his own: writing military thrillers. He has used what he knows with what he imagines in a superb combination of reality and art. Without burdening his text with technical descriptions, he carries his readers into the world of the military as naturally as if they were an invisible fly on his collar button. And in the air battle scenes, he succeeds in making readers feel they are experiencing virtual reality. You forget you're the reader and become the pilot. You feel the G forces, the rushing ground, the hair-raising near misses...you hear the mighty jet engines swooping and swooning...you see the target in your cross hairs and smell death. You feel your heart beating, your hands sweating inside your gloves, and you feel steely cool focused only on your target.<br />Aside from his amazing ability to put you inside the story is the story itself--a story that may be closer to the truth than we care to imagine in the days of war coming to Iraq. He portrays a cunning and skillful enemy you can understand and have to respect. Treachery, no matter who suffers as a result of it, is cause for vengeance, right or wrong, and we see forces equally motivated to devine that justice, which makes the outcome even more dramatic in its deliverance.<br />What's even more admirable is his portrayal of women challenging a man's world: a war correspondent and a F-18 pilot. They do their jobs becuse they love doing them, not because they want to be distinct from the pack. And both women can't have their man. Even this rivalry is worked out the way real women would resolve it.<br />Bob Gandt soars to the top of my favorite military novelists, and I hope to see Brick Maxwell and his Roadrunners along with broadcaster Claire Phillips on the USS Ronald Reagon in a TV series soon.	2003-03-19
US	52911441	RB6NP9BXADAAU	1403384711	294567967	Comfortably Numb	Books	5	5	8	N	N	A Potboiler of Urgent Possibilities	What immediately stands out in \\"Comfortably Numb\\" is the easy way sophisticated technology is meshed with the plot. So often, such technology, though intriguing, intimidates the reader, diffusing the impact of the story, but not in the hands of new author, Guy Jones. He makes computerized weapons and defense technology as simple to understand as driving a car-an important feat, for technology is as big a star in this story as the characters.<br />While the pace starts off slowly during the set up of the characters and plot, it picks up speed and never lets go. The reader becomes embroiled in the lives of Drew Martin and Jamie Dupree, who are thrust in Harm's Way repeatedly with no visible control to stop events overtaking them. This represents the most frightening frustration that military people face, but Drew and Jamie do not accept the \\"do or die\\" code of military order. Rather, they assume a \\"can do\\" attitude and rise above the conspiracy threatening them and the world at large.<br />Guy Jones is an author who sticks to his vision. This is evident in his character development, where the background of Captain Jason (\\"Weeds\\") Lee becomes a story within the story. This treatment breaks all conventional writing techniques, but it works and utterly engages the reader's sympathy. Taking his readers inside the lives of America's \\"warriors,\\" Guy Jones shows the dedicated courage they bring to their jobs every moment of every day.<br />Through an evocative plot that twists and turns like a plane in an uncontrolled spin, Jones barely pulls it out in time, thus making \\"Comfortably Numb\\" a thrill ride no reader can forget. It's also a chilling experience, for the possibilities portrayed serve as a stark and scary look into a future that may already be here. Above all, \\"Comfortably Numb\\" is a tribute to the Joint STARS that raises this lesser known of our armed forces' \\"guardians\\" to public view where, at last, they can be fully appreciated and honored.	2003-02-18
US	52911441	R1AIZFHTTKQX2B	0425185184	233344821	Sixth Fleet #4, The:  Cobra: Blood Across the Med	Books	5	8	10	N	Y	Relentless Action and Suspense	In the rising genre of military techno thriller, CAPT. David E. Meadows rises to the top. I have not read the first three books in this series, but \\"Cobra\\" is a blood curdling introduction to the madness of radical terrorists and a brilliant testimony to the true bravery of men and women-in this case Americans but we can add in all coalition military forces-put in harm's way defending humanity and our right to freedom. Capt. Meadows has the advantage of an unprecedented background in sea duty, and as a political and military insider serving on the Joint Chiefs of Staff, his fictional scenarios take on a frightening reality of a world most readers never know. Though \\"Cobra\\" is set in the future, it could be the story of what is happening right now. All the players are there-North Korea and just substitute Iraq for Algiers-and the threat of mass destruction with biochemical weapons. His characters also demonstrate why we will win the war against terrorism because the bonding between our defenders of the peace manifests a dedication and faith in each other that terrorists, who lead by fear, can never defeat. Whether you are a military person or just a plain civilian, this book grabs you and won't let you put it down until the last word.	2003-01-29
US	52911441	R3UZR3TW81VGR1	0812549449	894141598	No Other Option	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Prepare To Be Scorched	Spun around a theme that is increasingly common, &quot;No Other Option&quot; deals with a rogue special forces operative who has gone beyound the law and must be stopped. Because of the character's background, horrific violence trails in the wake of his escape path. The closest hunter to think like him is his protege, the CIA operative he trained, but more than the CIA wants this mad man. So does the Fugative Investigative Strike Team of U.S. Marshalls and a local woman detective who abhors predators and rapists. The cast is fascinating. The action, nerve wracking. The pace, dizzying. The facts, gory. And the story, totally absorbing. Marcus Wynne writes like an old master even though this is his first thriller. A remarkable feat.	2003-01-10
US	52911441	R2UWNJG484UE3H	0957985819	932171017	Rogue State	Books	5	5	9	N	N	An Awesome Thriller	At once frightening in its real possibilities, this multi-layered story brings terrorism to its ultimate madness. Just as corruption crumbled the great Roman Empire from within, the two 20th Century superpowers-Russia and the United States-teeter on ever rotting moral underpinnings, and in a struggle to dominate their New World spheres of influence in the 21st Century ignite radical Old World hatred.<br />Two former enemies in the Middle East-Iraq and Iran-join forces in the spirit of Islamic fundamentalism to punish the great infidels-Russia and America. They recruit an American Chechen fighting Russia's suppression of Chechnya and fund a series of missions to destabilize Moscow's hold over the former Soviet empire. One is a plausible explanation for the underwater explosion that sunk the Kursk nuclear submarine. His main mission, however, is to assassinate President Vladimir Putin on American soil following the presidential election in 2000, when the results are so harrowing that it is weeks before Americans know who their next president is. Saddam Hussein and Ayatollah Kambiz Abbasi hope that the murder of the Russian leader will throw these old enemies back in arms against each other and deflect attention from their regimes. Learning about the Chechen's plot, Putin sends out a KGB-trained butcher to hunt down this fleet-footed freedom fighter.<br />Meanwhile, in the United States, events unfold that color the country's honor bloody red. Good and evil merge in a mishmash of broken ideals and fanatic delusions. While a rogue mercenary, hired by a discontented splinter group that wants the 17th amendment revoked, unleashes a series of explosions that kill high-profile Washington targets, subversive political forces organize to fix the Bush-Gore election. This underworld of greedy power brokers called the Lexington Compact crosses into \\"black\\" CIA territory, using former assassins to cover their dirty tricks, and pitted against them is the FBI's Domestic Terrorism Unit, a team that is hog-tied by bureaucratic posturing. They are incredibly inept except for the help of three former special forces agents, who come out of retirement and end up beyond the law rendering proper justice in this new world without rules.<br />There is so much research and detail that the author has wisely listed all the characters and the roles they play in the front of the book. Though I had to refer to it a few times to keep everyone straight, the detail does not detract from the action and incredible descriptions (such as \\"Iraq and Iran sat like a hot griddle sizzling everything that crossed it\\" and \\"the thirsty sand sucked up the bloody carnage\\") as this thriller rockets from fact to fiction like a \\"live\\" exercise in terrorist anarchy. If anything, the \\"Rogue State\\" presents the best-case scenario as to why President Bush feels justified in raising his saber against those threatening terrorism.<br />This terrorist tome is a must read, and Douglas De Bono rises above even Tom Clancy and Clive Cusseler in his portrayal of the world today.Unit, a team that is hog-tied by bureaucratic posturing. They are incredibly inept except for the help of three former special forces agents, who come out of retirement and end up beyond the law rendering proper justice in this new world without rules. <br />There is so much research and detail that the author has wisely listed all the characters and the roles they play in the front of the book. Though I had to refer to it a few times to keep everyone straight, the detail does not detract from the action and incredible descriptions (such as \\"Iraq and Iran sat like a hot griddle sizzling everything that crossed it\\" and \\"the thirsty sand sucked up the bloody carnage\\") as this thriller rockets from fact to fiction like a \\"live\\" exercise in terrorist anarchy. If anything, the \\"Rogue State\\" presents the best-case scenario as to why President Bush feels justified in raising his saber against those threatening terrorism.<br />This terrorist tome is a must read, and Douglas De Bono rises above even Tom Clancy and Clive Cusseler in his portrayal of the world today.	2003-01-07
US	52911441	RQJBKHPC9IQBN	0451410300	1447963	The Second Assassin	Books	5	9	10	N	Y	Frightening Implications! Riveting Intrigue!	If ever fiction depicts history in truth, this tale does it! Christopher Hyde's amazing research gives him material for an eye-opening story about the royals in the pre-War II era and politicians who have been awarded loyalties that may never have been deserved. Because of the details, he takes readers through every moment of the taunting tense-wracked plot with a camera's precision. Many Canadians will be disheartened to read the common characterization of their beloved Queen Mum who finally passed away this year, but the representation sounds like the most truthful insight into a family that is now seen as quite dysfunctional. From my own research for my Second World War novel, I was appalled to see how callously Churchill and King George VI dispatched his real cousin--a young woman--on a fool's mission to bring the nuclear scientist, Niels Bohr, out of Denmark and her subsequent betrayal, capture, torture and supposed death. Thus, I believe the picture Hyde paints of the conspiracy to assassinate the young king and queen on American soil to deter the U.S. from helping Britain and entering into the war against Hitler. What's more appalling is that men like Lyndon Johnson, Allen Dulles and old Joe Kennedy supported and were involved in that conspiracy, and had it been successful, how different everyone's lives may be today. \\"The Second Assassin\\" gives weight to the theory that there was a second shooter at Kennedy's assassination. Since Hyde's use of historical facts to bear out this earlier attempt, it makes sense that men who had the stomach to do it once were capable of such treachery again--particularly when history finds that Johnson was responsible for escalating the Viet Nam war when Kennedy had made it clear he was going to wind it down. To think that Allen Dulles actually went on to lead the CIA is absolutely chilling. It also makes you wonder about whose God and country our military lay down their lives for. After such research and disillusionment, it is difficult not to become very cynical about our political leaders at any time. An excellent story!difficult not to become very cynical about our political leaders at any time. An excellent story!	2002-12-10
US	52911441	RGH6UBC2Y6NSB	0440225299	326768810	Numbered Account	Books	5	0	2	N	Y	Sizzling Page Turner	The story line of this book has been described at length, so what I want to point out is how refreshingly different this author's treatment of flashbacks is. Instead of going further into the past, he sets a flashback up and describes in the present tense. His reverse technique is what keeps the pace moving so rapidly. The reader is constantly kept in the centre of the action. It's also interesting to read this book in light of 9/11. His plot amid the potential threat of releasing a small nuclear explosion over Israel is all too realistic a possibility. Since this book was published in 1998 and is the result of a writer's active imagination, maybe intelligence agencies need to hire novelists who are capable of imagining the 'unimaginable' in preparation for future terrorist attacks. As for literary merit, even the opening sentence shines with beautiful prose--\\"Martin Becker paused before descending the stairs of the bank and gloried in the sea of glowing pearls.\\" There are many descriptive moments throughout Reich's narrative that are visual gems, in addition to his tightly controlled plot and pace, not to mention his very vivid character portrayals. Rich in color, sound and intrigue, this story comes together like a fine piece of art! I look forward to reading more of Reich's books.	2002-12-07
US	52911441	R25VTL5ZU6KWFD	0440234689	622480769	The Runner	Books	5	5	7	N	N	Move Over Robert Ludlum	Like Daniel Silva, Christopher Reich leads a new generation of intrigue thriller authors. \\"The Runner\\" is steeped in historic background that brings the post-WWII period to life at the same time as it provides an electrifying read. What's more it dares to provide a possible explanation of what really happened to General Patton at the end of the war. He was a man who had outlived his time and usefulness, and the convenience of his death has to raise the kind of \\"what-if\\" questions that are grist for a gifted storyteller like Reich. Now I must read his other two novels for I have become a fan.	2002-11-19
US	52911441	R1CJ0FI3W3BU56	0553583522	603428756	Lady Liberty	Books	5	8	9	N	Y	Galloping Suspense Set In Virtual Reality	From the first cut of the U.S. vice-president's finger at dinner, while she negotiates peacetalks between two warring former Soviet states in Geneva, to her last life and death act of inserting a choice between two keys to halt the launch sequence of a first-strike nuclear missile, this story moves relentlessly through 72 hours of utter terror and merciless betrayals.<br />Knitted into this story's race against time is a poignant love story between Vice-President Sybil Stone and Agent Jonathan Westford, her personal guardian. They are pitted against the mad jealousy of Sybil's ex-husband, a brilliant rocket scientist, and trained terrorists determined to assassinate her. Jonathan's job is to protect her at all cost to himself. To repeat the story line here, however, only serves to spoil a novel that thrives on moment-to-moment suspense--an experience readers deserve to enjoy on their own.<br />What matters most is that, in \\"Lady Liberty,\\" Vicki Hinze tops the genre of romantic suspense in the way she marries elements of the techno-thriller with intrigue and love; only this time she switches from recent military themes to the political arena in a much broader mission: to give the American people a leader they can believe in.<br />As 'Lady Liberty,' Sybil Stone symbolizes the character of a true statesman--or in this case, stateswoman: love of country, honor and selfless service. Her virtue is not bigger than life. It is a return to universal motherhood, for that nurturing side of a real woman has courage beyond the usual call to duty and empathy in direct contrast to true evil, which envelops the complete lack of empathy. If we can find leaders like Sybil Stone, there is still hope for the survival of our planet.	2002-11-14
US	52911441	RWRPFJICF0BDA	0312253486	991869571	The Janson Directive	Books	5	6	6	N	Y	Outstanding Finale	As Anderson and another reviewer have already commented, this Ludlum novel did have distracting passages that almost read like essays, and since we don't know where Ludlum left off before he died and someone else took over for him, I would like to suggest another possibility to this departure from his usual treatment. Authors who want to lend authenticity to their stories do far more research than they can actually use in a story. Often, in the first draft, they include everything -- its called overwriting -- until they are ready to revise. And then they edit back unwieldy descriptions in favor of keeping the story and pace moving forward. Ludlum may have died before he could do this, but in leaving his research in, the editor has left us with another Ludlum legacy.<br />If we were to separate these passages from the main story line, we would have an extraordinary thesis on today's terrorists--he described their warped mindset--what motivates them, their history, their homelands, their grievances, their hopes and dreams. Ludlum provides needed insight into today's enemy, and that's always been his greatest power--his books have not only thrilled us, they have educated us about so many things--government structures we never experience, about people we never meet in our daily lives, and now at the end, he helps us see America the way terrorists see us--from the oppressed to those deluded with power, whether on the side of the enemy or within our own ranks of government and commerce. He has created characters we want to meet again, and for his last work, what a memory to leave with us if that is not the case. Paul Janson and Jessica Kincaid--today's hero and heroine--the kind our world needs in a time when trust is threatened.<br />Ludlum did not disappoint his fans. This is an amazing book that reveals nothing until the last chapter and even then the suspense does not let up until the last page. If Ludlum has succeeded in training a few authors to complete outlines of novels he created before he died, we can only welcome their continuing contributions in his memory, and more power to their own works, but it would be nice to give these writers the recognition they so richly deserve. On that, I agree whole heartedly with a few other reviewers here.of novels he created before he died, we can only welcome their continuing contributions in his memory, and more power to their own works, but it would be nice to give these writers the recognition they so richly deserve. On that, I agree whole heartedly with a few other reviewers here.	2002-11-14
US	52911441	R3EJOZ55WBOGQS	1588513009	669844092	The Rebel's Pledge	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Swashbuckling Suspense	The Rebel's Pledge is a tremendous book with imagery that is as visually sharp as a movie, sensitive characterization and a plot that keeps going and going like the Everyready battery--you just don't want to put the book down, and you don't want to leave the characters at the end of the story either. They are developed with an astute grasp of what inner conflicts they had to overcome as well as the tensions between characters that the author played out convincingly in dialogue that reflects the time and historical setting as well as in narration. Perhaps most admirable is the author's ability to achieve real romance without dallying in erotica. She proves the reader's imagination is fertile enough. For a first novel, I was truly impressed. It is a story that will carry the reader away from daily concerns.	2002-10-29
US	52911441	R1NNLXDR0315X	0312421265	101663882	The Good German	Books	5	3	4	N	Y	Profound, Insightful, Intriguing	Deeply profound, yet shattering in its illumination of the dark days following the defeat of Germany in 1945. Though at times the story seems to plod, it reflects the reality. Kanon has achieved a similar psychological impact for the reader as befell those living in the times--overwhelming disbelief, scorched ruins, suspended anticipation, denial, relentless stamina, indifference, horror, cut-throat opportunism, contradicting moralities, ugly truths, hidden motives, sacrificial dedication, culpable acts, limitless egos, universal guilt, mazes within mazes of intrigue--and yet infinite hope runs parallel to Jake Geismar's quest to find, first, his lost love, and then to solve the mystery of who killed the American soldier dragged out of the waters in the Russian zone during the Potsdam Conference. How quickly the Holocaust was forgotten in the race to be first in space and to get rich on the spoils of war! A cowardly yet greedy human condition, as sad as that is, that still goes on and existed before the Holocaust began and went on while the Holocaust occurred. Kanon takes the stark truth and creates characters to reflect it--not in paper-thin stereotypes but in real examples, and if they seem to stretch credibility for some readers, it is because they did not experience it and can judge with rosy hindsight. A literary triumph that deserves five stars!	2002-09-27
US	52911441	R31V85P9SEW2O1	039914837X	95884282	A Game of Spies	Books	4	5	7	N	Y	Rapid Page Turner	A good book, a catchy story, but after reading Altman's first novel, &quot;A Gathering of Spies,&quot; this novel almost seems like a romp, written quickly and with far less twists and credible turns. In fact, at the end, Eva Bernhardt's 'sudden' awareness that the Gestapo had set her up with false information to take back to England feels like an anticlimax. Nevertheless, it is a gripping quick read and worth buying.	2002-09-04
US	52911441	R3UAC2JY6PKM29	0515131105	965921530	A Gathering of Spies	Books	5	5	6	N	Y	Absolutely Riveting	Another spin on the duel for possession of the atomic bomb told with edgy characters in a Hitchcock-like plot. The fate of World War II hangs on two people, each driven by conflicting obsessions, and the playout overturns the reader's expected resolution. The hero is a potty professor and the villain is a seductive murderess--these contrasts alone transgress the usual images of high-flying spies and evil Nazis, but they do set up intriguing pawns in a game of wits between sides within their own ranks. For a first novel, it is outstanding, and stands amongst the best of Follett, Le Carre and Silva.	2002-09-04
US	52911441	R1564MUU1842E0	0399148515	826329544	The English Assassin	Books	5	10	11	N	Y	Another Thrilling Read	Daniel Silva is becoming an author who hooks fans with his intricate tales of non-stop suspense, historical detail and fascinating characters. Though violence plays a part, it never seems intrusive to the plot. \\"The English Assassin\\" is the third book of Silva's I've read, and now I must read his other two.<br />In \\"The English Assassin,\\" Israeli spy Gabriel Allon is once again caught in another predicament that forces him out of retirement. This time he is accused of murdering a Swiss banker, and while on the run, discovers stolen art the SS took from German Jews in World War II, a conspiracy that will rock the world and the banker's daughter, an renowned concert pianist with the terrible memory of her mother's suicide. Through twists and turns that keep the reader mesmerized to the very end, Silva proves he is a master of suspense.	2002-09-04
US	52911441	R2VRQX3Q898A6V	0671001310	674792562	Last Rights	Books	5	3	4	N	Y	Knuckle-Twisting Suspense	Robert Ludlum's mantel has rightfully fallen to Philip Shelby, but unlike Ludlum his protagonist, Rachel, is a credible physically-fit smart woman--not larger than life as Ludlum was prone to make his heroic characters, who could be half dead but they could still run across roof tops for five pages afterwards without a murmur of pain. He keeps a taut pace, and the story races forward without the constant circling back to redundant information that plagues many authors' works. An explosive page turner with a fascinating psychopathic villian, the Engineer. A must read worth five-stars.	2002-08-15
US	52911441	R2L0A1T8YXDH59	067102406X	335020078	Mosaic	Books	5	1	1	N	Y	Hard-Edged Suspense	After reading Gayle Lynd's \\"Mesmirized\\" and her two collaborations with Robert Ludlum, it is clear that Ludlum has taught her how to keep the pace moving and the story taut because this story dragged in places with two much information and the connections at the beginning of the book between the heroine and her corrupt family were unclear. Nevertheless, it was another action-packed thriller that kept me reading on and on into the night until I finally finished in the early light of dawn. Gayle Lynd's fascination with psychological conditions--this time hysterical blindness--and special talent provides a vulnerable heroine who is a blind concert pianist, and when she digs down, discovers how tough she can be when her mother is murdered beside her in a taxi. Up to this tragic moment, Julia has suffered blindness for ten years and has just reached such confidence and self-esteem that she can suddenly see--subconsiously she is ready to set aside the psychological trauma that set off her escape and self-punishing condition without knowing what caused it. The killer, however, thinks she is blind and spares her. The shock of watching her mother die brings on the blindness again, but this time her desire for revenge and her sense of helpless guilt drive her to see again. Through a maze of coincidences the plot unravels, and Julia discovers her family don't really want her to see again. The only person she can rely on is a renegade CIA agent who protects her from a villanous assassin. Wherever they go, a pile of bodies follow, but eventually the trail leads to Nazi loot and justice for all.	2002-08-15
US	52911441	R6K6R6SJCC72T	1588515990	778133977	Steeple	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Arthur Miller would hail this author!	Because of the way she treats her subject, I sense Patricia Bouton-Masoni is a very deep thinker. She has a good ear for dialogue. Her characterizations are lifelike, maybe too much so, yet now and again brilliance comes through her narrative. And then great writing--like Hemingway--transforms the book from Chapter 17 to the end. The scenes in Africa and her story about the matriarch elephant are literary gems: \\"There was a chill to the air, the moon a thin curve, the sky so dense with stars they seemed spilled flakes of gold. They made a roof over the total blackness around me--an inky, heavy darkness with a feel to it. You could reach out, grab a handful, and apply it like a soothing compress. The grogginess I felt during dinner was gone. And for the first time since the beginning of the trip, I looked forward to the safari...\\"<br />For me, however, the story didn't really begin until chapter 17. Chapters 1 through 16 felt like one middle-aged man's long whine. George claimed he loved his wife, he was obsessed with her, but in truth, she was merely a comfortable, familiar possession. Nevertheless, I kept on reading, and low and behold, George gets his comeuppance in a neat twist that I won't divulge and spoil for the reader. But, to be inside his mind for the entire book except for the one chapter on the life of the elephant was an uncomfortable experience for me. For this reason, I can only give the book four stars, and they are reserved for the glimpses of greatness this author gives us in the last five chapters.	2002-07-11
US	52911441	RGX3NGI5NQB2P	0312421265	101663882	The Good German	Books	5	2	4	N	Y	Twisted Thriller	The end of World War II and the convergence of beliefs and philosophies in occupied Berlin still fascinate history buffs. Enemies became friends, and friends became enemies as the pendulum of power swung from fanatic Nazis to conspiratorial allies on the verge of cold war. <br />Joseph Kanon takes this setting and creates a murder mystery that gives new insight into the reality of history through the experience of ordinary people. Through the lambrinth of espionage emerges tough choices and cynical trade offs that bring new meaning to the phrase: \\"Let the end justify the means.\\" This story is a wake-up call to those blinded by naive patriotism. When do the vanguished become the victimizers? In today's war on terrorism, it is a question to be reconsidered through a historical perspective, and Kanon makes readers face the rhetoric.	2002-07-09
US	52911441	RVISXSCA6HOLB	1591291232	460313811	The Island of Refuge	Books	5	2	2	N	Y	A Tale of Gripping Drama	After reading \\"The Island of Refuge,\\" I understand why so many reviewers have awarded it five stars. This is a story like \\"To Kill A Mocking Bird,\\" a classic conflict of good versus evil in the guise of human weakness and deceit. The plot unravels a murder mystery, and the truth wreaks devastating results. There is everything here: abuse, moral corruption, twisted sanity, but most of all there are memorable characters who capture our hearts in their struggle to achieve human dignity and respect, and ultimately to find love. This is a story that reflects any age any time and would make an unforgettable movie worthy of an Oscar for the right cast.	2002-07-09
US	52911441	RLZU9MI5BCRZ3	0671024086	32618872	Mesmerized	Books	5	5	7	N	Y	A breathless ride	Here is an author who puts the controversy of cellular memory on center stage while peeling away layers and layers of comspiracy. Yes, she suspends the reader's belief, but in doing so she raises another question: what part does attitude play in physical activity? Bev Convey has a transplanted heart, from a Russian agent killed in a car accident. She craves new tastes and new interests, but before a heart attack disabled her, she was physically fit. If the cellular memory contained in a new heart brings a new way of looking at life, then why can't Bev prefer Karate to some other sport? She has a fit body and a change of desire could very well provide her with new competencies. Gayle Lynd's exploration of this interesting medical phenomen while developing characters and a plot that rivets you to each page shows why Robert Ludlum collaborated with her to produce his last books. Already, in this story, she out-Ludlums Ludlum.	2002-07-08
US	52911441	RMMFARUSO3599	0312289871	970494196	Robert Ludlum's The Paris Option: A Covert-One Novel (Ludlum, Robert, Covert-One Novels.)	Books	5	0	4	N	Y	Rich with Scorching Suspense and Terrible Possibilities	Robert Ludlum has always told tales that seemed light years ahead of their time, but as history has unfolded, so have the possibilities his novels have predicted. Here is another deadly plot that haunts our future in today's war on terrorism: a warning if you will. For this reason alone, the book deserves five stars, but it is also espionage at its most intriguing and heart-pounding pace. Once started, you can't put it down!	2002-07-08
US	52911441	R2GZJ3XWOG9224	0425183041	354737270	A Game for Heroes	Books	4	9	12	N	Y	Heroic Deeds	It's the end of the war, and no one should expect a wounded commando to put his life on the line one more time, but that's exactly what happens to Higgins' newest hero, Lt. Col. Owen Morgan. He sacrifices his freedom to rescue a German sailor on a mission that has already failed miserably and is almost executed by the embittered Nazi commander of the isolated outpost in the Channel Islands. I don't normally enjoy reading books written in first person--Higgins took me by surprise--but I found myself turning the pages and reading on anyway. Not only has Morgan returned to his island home hoping to reignite the love of his childhood years, he's there to find out if the Nazis can hang onto the Channel Islands for another year after Germany has  surrendered and thus cause more havoc on the sea. It turns out to be a fool's mission set up by a jealous boyhood rival who misinforms the British deliberately to betray Morgan and his lady love, but in Morgan's absence, she has fallen in love with a very decent German submariner. Conflict between friends, enemies who becomes friends, and the raging sea becomes the back drop for another hair raising tale by Higgins. The first person narrative reduces it to a four star for me.	2002-07-08
US	52911441	R156WRTVGZFHEC	1588209636	600178938	Fruit of a Poisonous Tree	Books	5	6	10	N	Y	No Clue from the Title	For once the title is as intriguing as the book turns out to be. I would never have gathered that I was going to be reading a military thriller, which happens to be my favorite genre. What a pleasant surprise! I actually got the book because it was recommended to me, and once I began reading I could see why Cammy Diaz liked it.<br />The plot is cyclical, spiralling from level to level into the world of covert black ops and special forces who today battle a real war on terrorism. And the heroine is a gal who's smart, sexy and a tad arrogant, which makes her the perfect foil for her less confident sister who ends up with the hero. An unexpected twist that the author has cleverly foreshadowed through the fast-paced plot of military women and men selflessly devoting their lives to their country. Norm Harris' heroine has a harder more physically fit edge than those starring in other works of popular military suspense novelists such as Vicki Hinze, more like Gordon Kent's \\"Peacemaker\\" in which a woman physicist runs an operation to stop a suicidal terrorist from setting off a nuclear bomb at the UN in New York. She too is smart, sexy and athletic but definitely not as interesting as Harris' Lieutenant Commander Faydra Green. Perhaps the closest match to Faydra is Colonel Mackenzie on \\"JAG.\\"  For a first novel, Harris succeeds in suspending our credibility, and if dolphins really are used in underwater operations, it's an added bonus to our love of the mammal and memories of \\"Flipper.\\" Faydra Green could be this author's Kay Scarpetta of military suspense, and I look forward to reading his next book.	2002-03-31
US	52911441	R3KEQQPDE89907	0759671362	502663575	Whispers in the Wind: a collection of poetry	Books	5	6	6	N	Y	A Poet for Today	For many people, the works of poets represent what they feel more succinctly than any other writing, and a new collection of poetry written by a woman disillusioned with life reflects her journey to rediscover salvation through travels that take her to the Mediterranean and beyond. Her poems cover 30 years, and they are written in many different places, styles, stages of life and moods.<br />In her poems, everyone can find something to relate to-from broken dreams, frustrated goals and lost loves to spiritual insights and companionable cats. Her collection is easy to read. There are no obscure puzzles to figure out as this excerpt from &quot;The Dusty Road of Life&quot; illustrates:<br />&quot;I never expected<br />A smooth paved highway<br />Stretching off into forever.&quot;<br />Through her travels, Allison found that Nobel Prize winning poets in the land of Homer particularly inspired her. There, in Greece, and in Spain, she learned poets are held in high esteem, and during her studies and subsequent teaching of Spanish and Greek literature, she longed to carry on their traditional expression of life and society through writing verse. At first, she only wrote for herself in her personal diaries, and in one journal she wrote: &quot;Some people have to be transplanted in order to bloom.&quot;<br />Like Ulysses, she was seeking her Ithaca, and in the sometime turbulent sea of life, writing journals and poetry became her anchor throughout her explorations of her inner and outer realities. Some of her poems have been written while sitting alone in an Italian restaurant in Des Moines, Iowa, while others, in Malta, Majorca or Moiraira. Why Allison can write in places like Itea and Illetas-and not in others such as Amman, Jordan, Boston, Cairo, Lake Louise, Tunisia, New York, Algiers, Miami, Amsterdam or Casablanca-escapes her. &quot;Varied experiences and striking images abound in all of those,&quot; she says, &quot;but only some trigger my creative muse into action.&quot;<br />Allison has compared her inspiration by locale to Danielle Steel's desire to move to California to &quot;find an easier climate, gentler people and a better place to write.&quot; She, too, has traveled to &quot;find a pleasanter climate, warmer and more vibrant people,&quot; and a place that inspires her to write.<br />Like Robert Frost, who together with Walt Whitman strongly influences her poetry, Allison grew up on a farm, and that upbringing does affect her writing for she is often at one with nature's sights and sounds, echoes and alliteration.<br />While Jeanine Allison had to leave North America to find her way back to her spiritual self, others working through their losses, disappointments and troubled times won't need to travel the same route to gain great strength from her simple reflections in &quot;Whispers in the Wind.&quot; Allison makes her publishing debut with this poetry collection for all people changing paths and seeking new understandings.;<br />Allison has compared her inspiration by locale to Danielle Steel's desire to move to California to &quot;find an easier climate, gentler people and a better place to write.&quot; She, too, has traveled to &quot;find a pleasanter climate, warmer and more vibrant people,&quot; and a place that inspires her to write. <br />Like Robert Frost, who together with Walt Whitman strongly influences her poetry, Allison grew up on a farm, and that upbringing does affect her writing for she is often at one with nature's sights and sounds, echoes and alliteration. <br />While Jeanine Allison had to leave North America to find her way back to her spiritual self, others working through their losses, disappointments and troubled times won't need to travel the same route to gain great strength from her simple reflections in &quot;Whispers in the Wind.&quot; Allison makes her publishing debut with this poetry collection for all people changing paths and seeking new understandings.	2002-03-31
US	52911441	R13MY433K8Q1UE	1588513009	669844092	The Rebel's Pledge	Books	5	14	15	N	N	Swashbuckling Suspense	The Rebel's Pledge is a tremendous book with imagery that is as visually sharp as a movie, sensitive characterization and a plot that keeps going and going like the Everyready battery--you just don't want to put the book down, and you don't want to leave the characters at the end of the story either. They are developed with an astute grasp of what inner conflicts they had to overcome as well as the tensions between characters that the author played out convincingly in dialogue that reflects the time and historical setting as well as in narration. Perhaps most admirable is the author's ability to achieve real romance without dallying in erotica. She proves the reader's imagination is fertile enough. For a first novel, I was truly impressed. It is a story that will carry the reader away from daily concerns.	2001-12-17
US	52911441	R234QE28SNEVNG	059514067X	277460523	Tablecloth Scribbles	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Inspiring!	Christine Lemmon proves that a journey in grief does not have to be a tragic or morbid experience, yet it's something that all people need to do because death is a part of life -- there is no escaping it. What Christine shares with her readers are insights that come from facing death, greater knowledge of ourselves and internal spiritual growth -- and all of this with gentle and often delightful humor. This book is a candidate for Oprah's Book Club.	2000-12-13
US	52911441	RNJDL50VLBE93	0968532403	409901540	Dog Owners' Pocket Guide of Commands	Books	5	1	1	N	N	A Pooch Plus Bible!!	This is the best quick reference for anyone who owns a dog, and especially if you are thinking about getting a puppy. An absolute must read! Using this simple manual will help anyone establish a healthy and happy relationship with their puppy, who will grow up to be either a well-behaved, responsive dog or a spoiled nuisance. I wish I had read it first before I treated my one-pound Toy Pomeranian puppy like a kitten instead of a dog. Now it takes more persistence to switch this adult seven-pound boomerang of energy from some of his &quot;annoying&quot; behavior (he's a mouthy little monster) to being better mannered. The progress we have made is all due to Claudia's guidance and explanation of how dogs perceive us owners as well. Everyone should carry this little guide in their shirt pocket or in their purse. Don't leave home without it!	2000-09-20
US	52911441	R1JS8LLY243CI8	0595094147	673275487	Gold In the Shadow	Books	5	4	4	N	N	A Hair-Raising Tale	The setting of &quot;Gold in the Shadow&quot; is exotic, fraught with the natural dangers of dense South American jungles. Plus lost treasures and historical puzzles. Author Michael Marcotte uses his knowledge of anthropology to create an adventure that is so thrilling you can't put the book down. Instead of pitting man against nature, however, he introduces Rachel, a short, slim anthropologist with mismatching eyes. She's a heroine whom readers, whether men or women, feel comfortable with because of her flaws rather than her virtue. She's courageous and honest, yet refreshingly vulnerable. Her only reason for flying to Peru is to find her lost twin brother, a cargo pilot whose plane has crashed near the border of Bolivia. Once she arrives in Cuzco, an unscrupulous treasure seeker dupes her into believing that he will help her find her brother's downed plane if she will join his expedition as his interpreter. In the perilous journey to follow, this man's greed endangers everyone, and only Rachel's knowledge of ancient myths and native legends helps her unlock the secret to their survival. In his debut novel, Michael Marcotte proves he is a master storyteller far more credible than Clive Cussler. His authentic details bring his adventurous tale to life, and like an ancient fable, the reader comes away with a far greater gift than the gold treasure sought in the story. It is the wisdom found in &quot;Gold in the Shadow.&quot;	2000-09-20
US	52911441	R35A1AV1S7OE9N	1550545884	807817569	Sharp End: A Canadian Soldier's Story	Books	5	4	4	N	N	True Courage	In Davis' story, we finally come to see the fine calibre of men Canadian politicians have ruthlessly shamed with old &quot;blame the many for the few bad apples.&quot; At last, the conditions our soldiers face on peacekeeping missions are revealed. Perhaps if more who have served in the Canadian Armed Forces would step forward and tell their stories, we would see how proud we can be of our Canadian peacekeepers, over and over again. Davis proves how valuable he is as a soldier along with all the Airborne he served with. He also demonstrates how callous the Canadian government is in its treatment of the armed forces that it sends on peacekeeping missions worldwide. What's more, Davis tells his story in his own voice, and that's also what makes his tale so mesmerizing.	2000-09-20
US	52911441	RMZQMM6G7BYTP	1563152193	121139378	Defiant Love	Books	5	3	3	N	N	A Rapturous Read	&quot;Defiant Love&quot; is a mesmerizing tale of frontier romance and adventure. Life is boring in St. Louis for Carolin Lee, a spoiled rich girl who makes everyone's life miserable when she doesn't get her own way ...  until she meets the dashing Captain Travis Conners and decides he's the man  she wants to marry. Conners woos her father into becoming his business  partner and convinces him to take a trip west to see the goods he wants to  ship east for sale in the cities. Determined to win Conners for herself,  she goes against her mother's wishes and accompanies her father to Conner's  fort in South Dakota. Enroute, Conner's fort commander sends a half-breed  Sioux scout to meet their stage coach and escort it safely through restless  Indian territory. As rude as she is towards him, he bears her outrageous  behavior. When she disbobeys his orders to stay close to the others, she  and her father are ambushed by Crow Indians. The Sioux scout rushes to  their rescue, but her father is killed during the skirmish. When they  return to the coach, they find everyone slaughtered, including the horses.  Suddenly Carolin's survival depends on this half-breed she despizes. They  set out afoot for the fort, and the following two weeks in the wilderness  change her life. With no servants to look after her every need, she learns  to fend for herself and becomes proud of the new self-reliance the  half-breed is teaching her. When he takes her to his tribe to get horses, a  young brave challenges him to the death to possess her. It is then that she  realizes she is falling in love with him. While there, renegade soldiers  raid the village and kill many of the women and children in camp. Carolin  is devastated. Now the Sioux scout called Blade is convinced that the  attacks against the stage coach and his people are connected, but who is  doing this and why? Once friendly soldiers catch up with Carolin and Blade  to take them to the fort, they have to face their growing desire for each  other, but the charming Captain Conners intends to claim Carolin for  himself. Caught between her fantasy about Conners and her real life  experience with Blade, Carolin has to decide which world she wants to  embrace -- the life of rich elegance back east with Conners or frontier  life out west with Blade. Greater than the romance, however, is the  mystery. Saving Carolin is pivotal to the plot, and as she learns why her  father is killed, her life is in jeapordy. Janice Prestine tells a  fascinating story and develops unforgettable characters and authentic  dialogue. Her sensitivity to the Indians' plight adds special historical  perspective. Most of all, she brings back old-fashioned romance instead of  today's trend to hard-core lust. Romance readers will love this book. You  can't put it down.or each  other, but the charming Captain Conners intends to claim Carolin for  himself. Caught between her fantasy about Conners and her real life  experience with Blade, Carolin has to decide which world she wants to  embrace -- the life of rich elegance back east with Conners or frontier  life out west with Blade. Greater than the romance, however, is the  mystery. Saving Carolin is pivotal to the plot, and as she learns why her  father is killed, her life is in jeapordy. Janice Prestine tells a  fascinating story and develops unforgettable characters and authentic  dialogue. Her sensitivity to the Indians' plight adds special historical  perspective. Most of all, she brings back old-fashioned romance instead of  today's trend to hard-core lust. Romance readers will love this book. You  can't put it down.	2000-06-04
US	52911441	R3CCRH7H04RXEW	0921165625	213938118	Cops Don't Cry: A Book of Help and Hope for Police Families	Books	5	20	22	N	N	A Bible of Good Advice	Too often, communities take our police forces and their protection of society for granted. &quot;Cops Don't Cry&quot; is a story that needs to be told, for both the families of police officers and the public they serve,  and who better to tell it than the wife of a cop. In collecting testimonies  from cops and their spouses across North America along with anecdotes of  her own experience, Vali Stone has uncovered the main reason for the high  divorce rate among cops. It is a breakdown in communication. To show how  this happens, Vali takes her readers through every step of a cop's life,  from training and the stress of the daily beat to the loss of a comrade.  She also shares the spouse's roller-coaster ride of emotions, from the  sexual appeal of a romantic partner in uniform to pride in their job to  fear that every good-bye kiss may be their last. Vali's conversational  style of writing makes her feel like a friend to her readers. By the end of  the book, she not only provides police families with help and hope, she  also offers insights and sensible tips for all couples experiencing  problems communicating with each other.	2000-02-22
