US	52914183	RNQKOX9RO6F01	1585710660	905702679	No Apologies (Indigo: Sensuous Love Stories)	Books	3	4	5	N	Y	Upbeat romance we all wished had happened at some time...	I liked the story of Angela and Jeff from a romantic fairytale point of view.  She's in love with him, he's in love with another woman and rejects her, realizes he's wrong and comes back to make her his woman.  Enough to make you swoon.  She gets to play hard to get and an angel in that she has taken on the job of raising her dead friend's child.   <br /> <br />This is easy reading in which you know the outcome and none of this is a bad thing.  It's got enough hot sex without becoming repetitive and boring.   <br /> <br />I like a good romance with somewhat of a storyline then I don't feel so decadent and this fits the bill.  The writing, for the most part, is well done and that helps.	2004-12-31
US	52914183	R1R9T7O9C7FVY8	0486420701	429643397	When I Was a Slave: Memoirs from the Slave Narrative Collection (Dover Thrift Editions)	Books	5	157	169	N	N	Great Collection of Life Stories as Told By Actual Slaves	I was captured by the frankness and brutal honesty depicted in these slave narratives.  The stories are varied and I am reminded that yes, slavery was horrific and barbaric but these were people and as such all have different experiences.  African Americans in this country are at a clear disadvantage in terms of understanding our heritage and reading these stories kept reminding me of that fact.  <br /> <br />That's a good thing because this collection covers the gamut of slavery.  Unimagineable cruelty to high society life, all led by slaves.  Each story is kept short but in the end you have a better view of the people component of slavery not just a view of the \\"institution of slavery.\\"  There was one story about a family run plantation that was considered fairer than most in that they didn't beat, brand or mistreat their slaves.  During the course of the Civil War slave families are torn apart and taken away.  After the Civil War, these particular plantation owners went looking for all their former slaves as most were starving or being worked in worse conditions than pre Civil War.  One former slave girl they found wanted to find her mother and siblings and they set about helping her to do that.  In the end she actually finds her mother and a few siblings in another state but it would not have been possible without the assistance of her former owners.  This story imparts that there were people who understood that skin color does not mean you lack feelings, that states like Texas were horrible slave raiding states and that the south after the Civil War wasn't a good place to be if you were a former slave. <br /> <br />This is a good book to read if you want that overview and being 149 pages it's not overly long.  It's also great if you have to pick it up and put it down as each story is only a few pages long.	2004-10-30
US	52914183	R151GSLGD6Z9KW	1583141456	385588690	Surrender (Arabesque)	Books	3	6	8	N	Y	No, Never, Well..., Maybe, Sometimes, Ok, Yes...To Love	I generally liked this book especially the first half.  It's about a Black woman named Netherlands who owns a restaurant and a Colonel in the Marines named Ashton.  Ashton is part Cherokee and Black, has visions of the future and is bound and determined to have Netherlands as his woman.  No problem, as I bought this book knowing it was a romance novel with people of color.  It's the usual fare of boy meets girl, boy wants girl bad, girl creates conflict, boy pursues no matter what and then it takes a different rather sloppy turn. <br /> <br />Up until half way through the book you have your usual steamy romance novel.  Characters are well developed and the writing is good.  But at the half way point the author decides to involve not one but three other love stories out of the blue.  It's confusing and to have all these people who were minor characters in the first half suddenly take center stage, and all fall madly in love instantly, is a little annoying.  As a result the writing suffers as does your attention span.  There are problems with the timeline and continuity and believability about how police departments operate and the military, especially the military. <br /> <br />Had Ms. Jackson not digressed I would have given it 4 stars. <br /> <br />	2004-10-21
US	52914183	R3CME7BK3DQWGD	0060521600	26282771	Ice Hunt	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Lots of Action, Multiple Story Lines, Unbelievable	I love action, adventure type books and this is one and a good one.  I'll get my pet peeve out of the way quickly and that has to do with the affect of artic weather on the characters in the book.  He has these folks jumping in and out of well below freezing water, losing shoes and parkas, etc. and they seem to never be affected.  I don't think so.  A little more realism about the true affects of exposure would have helped.  But I put that aside and found this to be a truly interesting book with lots of nice little twists and turns that weren't predictable.  You have to like jumping from one point of view to another which he does frequently.   The writing is good and the different points of views are well integrated so you aren't lost but at the same place just from a different perspective.   <br /> <br />Allright it was predictable in the romance department and yes you could see the movie of the week script clearly outlined but it was entertaining and about what you should expect when you read the back of the jacket.  Good writing, action and nice mean monsters make for quick reading.	2004-08-26
US	52914183	R1YQ1HY2Q4BKNY	0972437738	479563169	Seized	Books	4	4	6	N	N	The story of Dak & Geris with a few other subplots....	For all of you who follow Jaid Black this is vol 1.5 released not long ago that continues the story of the royal brothers of Tryston finding their sacred mates (cute term for wives).  In this story Dak goes to Las Vegas to find his mate Geris as he was told he would find her there by the high priestess Ari.  Yep, he finds her, kidnaps her and takes her back to the seventh dimension where she is reunited with her best friend Kyra.  Read vol 1 to understand how she was kidnapped by Dak's older brother, Zor.<br />Now, if you like your erotic romance fictions with lots of super hunky men who are faithful to one woman and serious about it then you have found home.  Lots of sex, lots and lots of it.  A couple of woman to woman scenes thrown in for a good rounding (not my cup of tea so I tend to go through these fast).  Not only are the men serious about their women (there happens to be a shortage) they are truly devoted and sensitive to boot.  Not sensitive in that they talk too much but sensitive in that they wear their hearts on their sleeves and let you know it.  There is just enough man handling to be juicy and not get to the point where you start thinking abuse.  So put your reality meter onhold and have fun with the book.	2003-08-04
US	52914183	R17DMHW4L5T0F8	0028637046	55030625	Weight Watchers The Fit Factor: How Getting Strong Can Help You Lose Weight	Books	4	11	17	N	N	An overall comprehensive book to help the beginner.	I checked this book out at my public library and didn't note that it was published by Weight Watchers until I got it home.  I don't have one particular thing against Weight Watchers but I don't particular care for them either hence I tended to ignore them altogether.  This is 193 pages of lots of good, solid info on exercise, diet, vitamins and food plans.  Having said this I would tell anyone that has had the opportunity to read any other popular fitness book not to get this book as it would definitely be a waste of your time.<br />There are drawings showing one exercise each for each body part.  They are all fine but you definitely would need more exercises if you want to see any real benefit.  There are some good drawings of stretches for each part of the body. The book does a credible job explaining the benefits of both weight bearing exercises and cardio exercises along with suggestions for a fitness test.  There are also some meal plans in the back but beware they all use the Weight Watcher's point system.<br />My overall feeling is that if you are a novice to the exercise world then this is a good book to start with.  It's well rounded, full of factual info and has just enough to get you interested.  If you have been into reading fitness books, already started an exercise program this very basic info won't help you, it'll bore you as it only covers the starting fundamentals.	2002-06-21
US	52914183	R2SHN3MK6BMNHF	0970716907	732147203	The Empress' New Clothes	Books	3	4	5	N	Y	Fun Sci-Fi erotica with a decent storyline	I liked this book because it was funny.  There were jokes and funny situations that made you laugh between all these hot sex scenes.  If you can't get into Sci-Fi space traveling, separate dimensions and blue people then don't pick up this disk.  The main female is a tax accountant on earth and captured by a king in the seventh dimension.  Most of the book is then dedicated to her getting used to him and to the customs of the culture which, of course, is highly sexed.  There's a subplot to overthrow the king which is kind of nice.  <br />This is one of the few erotic books I have read that tried to read like a real novel although if judged strictly by this criteria I would have given one star.  As it was, I liked the sex and the characters and so I gave it a three which is pretty high for me for one of these kinds of books.  I do have a complaint which is more of annoyance than anything else.  The language of the alien culture is supposed to be very different than earth and through a necklace placed around the earth woman's neck she is able to speak and understand the alien language.  Half way through the book, the alien culture suddenly picks up slang and jokes that don't fit with the original description of the alien culture.  Somehow they all became average guys talking about their women.  Also there is a black woman who has been the very best friend of the main character from earth.  Apparently they met when they were about 5 and have been inseparable every since.  The black character speaks and acts as if she grew up in the ghetto.  I don't think so if they lived near each all their lives and she is supposedly educated as well.  Like I said it was annoying but did not interfere with the basic premise of the book.  I think, and I definitely could be wrong about this, that the book's basic message is to lighten up and have some fun.	2002-06-19
US	52914183	R1T0XPLBSNZSYX	0615115454	679551477	Why Are Black Women Losing Their Hair?	Books	2	140	141	N	Y	Interesting approach just not really addressing the issue.	I wanted this book to be full of scientific, hair care industry and even home remedies regarding &quot;how not to lose your hair&quot;.  Especially since most black women have super curly hair which is rather fragile which most can attest to because it's hard for a lot of us to grow it past our shoulders without getting that broken off look.  Unfortunately, you only get part of this in the book.  <br />Barry opted to have different people contribute to the book and so you get different points of view regarding hair in each chapter.  For instance he lets a reverend write one chapter who goes off on a tangent about his particular religious beliefs and hair care.  You know, the whole thing about cutting or not cutting your hair, etc.  Anyway it seemed woefully out of place given the title of the book.  Barry then has a major chapter devoted to the selling of his own hair care line.  But neglects to give full ingredients list for these products.  I felt quite annoyed at the number of pages taken up for his marketing campaign since that's not what I thought I was paying for when getting this book.<br />There are some rather informative chapters regarding possible hair loss due to disease such as cancer.  He also has about 5 good pages devoted to hair care in shampooing tips and styling options to avoid hair breakage.  I had hoped that more of the 180 or so pages would be devoted to these topics.  There aren't many pics but there is a beautiful color section that discusses of all things, why some women will only let a man style their hair.  What has that got to do with anyting?<br />There is way too much &quot;other stuff&quot; in this book.  I gave it at least two stars because Barry does discusses the various ways women can lose their hair.  It's just so disappointing that not much was forthcoming on how to stop losing our hair.	2002-05-19
US	52914183	R2B0O4ZRYLRUN1	1570719055	987695280	The Black Woman's Guide to Beautiful Hair: A Positive Approach to Managing any Hair Type and Style	Books	4	8	8	N	Y	A positive message for black women	This book is very uplifting for those who have struggled with their hair and its upkeep.  It's nice to see a more positive approach to dealing with what was viewed as unmanageable in the past.  The most consistent theme is that it's your hair so take the time to get to know it and deal with it.  There is no point in wishing for this or that but just start dealing with what you have.<br />I have read many books on black hair care and have found many ways to learn to deal with what I used to view as unmanageable.  As a result I have had people ask me about my chemical free hair in both positive and negative ways.  The negatives have come from people who prefer straight long hair or long braids and think I should conform.  The positives have come from people who have been amazed at all the things you can do with chemical free hair.  As this book imparts... you can't please everyone so you should start pleasing yourself.  If you are looking for some sort of miracle then don't bother.  But if you want a positive message with advice on hair care then give this a read.	2002-04-20
US	52914183	RNWB6QO8YI5RL	1570719055	987695280	The Black Woman's Guide to Beautiful Hair: A Positive Approach to Managing any Hair Type and Style	Books	2	66	72	N	Y	Not enough of anythiing....	Lisa Akbari's very short book is much too anectdotal for me.  That's my overall complaint and it bothers me that there are so few serious books specifically aimed at the hair care issues of the woman of color with seriously curly/kinky hair.  <br />I thought this book would be objective, backed by facts and tell the whys and why nots of hair care for the typical woman of color with seriously curly hair but this is not so.  The primary reference point is the author's experience as a beautician.  That's not good enough for me.  For example she discusses dry, flaking, itching scalp fromt the point of view her experience while working at a salon.  I didn't want to know nor did I think it added value to read stories related to how many women came into that particular salon and let people scratch their heads.  I expected a section on dealing with dry, itching and flaking scalp problems.  I expected it to be dealt with in a straight forward manner in the prose of if you have the following issues then do the following.....  Not even close.  While the author does make reference to dermatologists opinions there is not a clear connection between the medical guidelines and the &quot;well this works for me&quot; guidelines.<br />I have read other, older books that I think were better.  Specifically, Pamela Ferrell's &quot;Let's Talk Hair&quot; is still the best book when it comes to taking care of non chemically treated super curly/kinky hair.  I do believe if you are just starting to take care of your own hair then there is something to be learned from this book hence the two stars.  But if you have been reading up on this subject matter for awhile, as I have, then you won't find any new real info.  I find this really disappointing because while the book &quot;Let's Talk Hair&quot; is good it only really gets to the basics and so do some of the others.<br />Another factor that was disappointing was the lack of photographs.  It always helps to see what is being described, especially when it's hair but that wasn't possible.  Just another reason I wasn't impressed with the book.	2002-04-07
US	52914183	RYHGD8QTY1I75	0761530975	826140386	7-Day Detox Miracle, Revised 2nd Edition: Revitalize Your Mind and Body with This Safe and Effective Life-Enhancing Program	Books	3	57	64	N	N	Lots of rice so if you don't like it this isn't for you....	There are about 20 pages actually devoted to the diet out of a total of 290 pages.  That being said it's not necessarily a waste of paper because the author goes to some length to explain some rather interesting facts.  The first part of the book goes into some rather lengthy detail as to how the body can get into a toxic state, what body parts are affected and what they should be doing if all were well.  If you have a good understanding of this (which I did) then you'll not be too interested.  <br />The section after the diet talks about supplementation, circulation therapy (rather important to good health) and a summary section of the basics of what is involved with following the 7 day detox program during and afterwords.  There is also a detoxification questionnaire in the appendix which was rather interesting.  The author gives credit where credit is due and there is a rather extensive reading section as well as a decent index.<br />There is nothing wrong with this book but basically it's a rice cleansing program and if you have done any reading on the subject of fasting and detoxification you already know what rice can or can not do for you.  If you want additional info on body, cell and mind functions this isn't a bad way to go.	2002-01-13
US	52914183	R1MAWU0234CSJ4	051513175X	59736501	The Descent	Books	3	2	3	N	N	A sensational mystery and horror story rolled into one.	I liked this book.  I read it while doing my Christmas traveling and was hard pressed to put it down as I boarded planes and boats, it kept me that interested.  I read some of the other reviews and have to say I agree with a lot of what they had to say.  It's at least an original concept of life beneath the surface of the earth even though I have no idea if it could really happen.  You don't really care because the author does weave into his story line of how it could be plausible and how certain circumstances go against beliefs that are currently in place.<br />I liked the fact that he wove all his story lines together into a cohesive plot.  He didn't drop people out altogether or make them do stupid things in order to have his story work.  Everyone comes together so while the book is a bit longer than most don't think you are wasting your time.  All of it starts to fit together like a well oiled machine the closer you get to the end yet he still doesn't manage to give it away.  I always try to guess the ending and I did but he still had a few plot twists included to make me appreciate his sense of story telling and to definitely keep me turning the pages.<br />If I have anything negative to say it would be along the lines of the Hadals (the creatures that live beneath the surface).  I would have liked more of the book from their perspective.	2001-12-29
US	52914183	RIJK2NIE8WOSY	156201191X	80824330	Submission	Books	3	2	2	N	Y	Not much finesse... just plenty of sex with girls and guys	As erotica goes this isn't but that's ok cause sometimes you don't want that.  If you want any excuse to have two people have sex then this is your book.  It leans towards more coerced sex wherein the individual starts out not wanting to participate then has a change of heart cause it feels so good.<br />It's set in a fictional world so don't try to have it make sense in the world of today, it won't.  I didn't really find myself caring about any of the characters but do you really need to?	2001-12-12
US	52914183	R3S5AORXKI377G	0345413873	625404653	Monster (An Alex Delaware Novel)	Books	3	2	2	N	N	Interesting, good plot twist but a little dry....	I liked this book that I picked up while at the airport.  It kept me interested and that's hard to do albeit it had it's very very dry moments.  I didn't care for the detached manner in which the author addressed the love relationship between Alex and Robin.  Geez... he described love making the same way he described mailing a letter.  It was obvious he just wasn't into it but felt, for some reason, it should be included.  <br />But I thoroughly enjoyed the twists and turns the story took.  I especially liked the fact that while the story took these strange turns the author didn't hide information to pull out at the last minute.  That's important.  You learn everything at the same time Milo and Alex learn it and you can all draw your own conclusions.<br />So if you want a good page turner this is one.	2001-09-13
US	52914183	R1YJ0L3DTTB2ZZ	038081093X	604551094	Excavation	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Nicely written - told from various view points	The author took the position of telling his story from each of the main character's point of view.  Sometimes authors do this badly but James managed to do a credible job without losing his audience.  The first two thirds of the book were totally riveting, unpredictable, exciting and well written.  The last third of the book was kind of goofy.  It strained believability and eventually lost my interest.  I can put it another way... it got really goofy.  But it was interesting for the first two thirds and well written... very well done suspense.	2001-09-13
US	52914183	RIDRJHGD0TFJ4	0553572334	465570086	My Lucky Stars: A Hollywood Memoir	Books	3	17	19	N	N	Lots of juicy tidbits...  Mitchum and Montand a girl should	be so lucky.  I have not read Shirley's other books and I am not sure exactly why I purchased this one other than I suppose I was feeling especially nosey and liked the gossipy aspect of the book.  Shirley tells a lot of her business but I suppose at this point and time in her life she could really care less how people judge her.  <br />I always knew she had an unconventional marriage but just how unconventional was made very clear as she sustained long term affairs with Robert Mitchum, Danny Kaye and little escapades with some of her leading men like Yves Montand.  What is very noticeable is that Shirley doesn't go into any of the issues associated with having such an open marriage at the time she did it.  Her escapades are told with dry humor and a sort of emotional detachment.  I do, however, believe that Robert Mitchum could have been one of her great loves instead of a long term affair.  <br />I did appreciate her attempts to provide insight as to how affairs can happen so readily when making a picture.  How they are in fact aided and abetted sometimes by directors and other crew members.  Some directors won't let spouses on the set, some do questionable things to provoke reactions to get you to do the movie their way.... It's all very enlightening in that you do see how insecure people such as a Marilyn Monroe type would get eaten alive by these sort of games.<br />I suppose Frank Sinatra was really p_ _ _ _d off when this book came out because for all her flattery of him she paints such a sad picture of him.  It almost....  I said almost, makes you want to overlook his ego maniac, self centered, I am God attitude towards the rest of the people on the planet.  I also found her description of Debra Winger's antics on Terms of Endearment to be totally revolting.  I have to think that if behavior like this is found acceptable in order to get the best from an actor then the behavior we read about shouldn't be a surprise.  The anything goes behavior that is tolerated while making the movie could in fact and does create serious behavioral problems in some stars.  In other words they expect real life to be like on the movie set and it doesn't work that way.<br />All in all I enjoyed the book, it's very juicy gossipy bits and her insights into old Hollywood.	2001-06-22
US	52914183	R9S6F3AJ1W6II	0449912558	541384114	The Sparrow: A Novel (Ballantine Reader's Circle)	Books	3	1	2	N	Y	A very different but yet seemingly plausible tale	I sometimes found it rough going as the author flips back and forth between the earth experiences and the experiences on the new planet.  That aside I felt she did a credible job of presenting a believable scenario of what life just might be like on another world.  It's not so far fetched as she takes bits and pieces of certain cultures that exist on our planet and puts them together in one particular culture on the new planet.  It occurred to me about half way through the book that had the group of explorers met ther ruling party first and not their slaves they might have had a totally different experience.  <br />Sandoz is a well written character from beginning to end but I can not say that about the supporting cast.  Especially towards the end the author seems to rush through major events.  Some of them die in conflicts on the planet and these events are rushed through as if she were running out of time.  It's very frustrating because you are not sure exactly what happened.  If it was done for the purpose of a sequel then I will be very annoyed at the manipulation.  <br />If you like sci fi, have a vivid imagination and can allow yourself the luxury of believing that space travel will not be government controlled in the near future then this book will keep you entertained.  Unlike some sci fi books it tries to incorporate the very good and the very bad in all societies.	2001-06-22
US	52914183	R38JZU55O7TZE7	0515129704	63105847	Cold Edge	Books	3	5	6	N	N	Keeps you guessing so that's a good thing!	If you want believable situations between Native Americans and how a real police department would work then don't read this book.  Put that aside and it's quite entertaining as a who done it and how are the bad guys gonna get caught.  I think the serial killer angle was different and that gave this book an edge.  I picked it up when my flight was delayed at the airport and almost finished it by the time I got home.<br />This book would have only gotten 2 stars if it hadn't managed to keep me surprised from time to time because as some reviewers claimed it does lose touch with reality from time to time.  But fast pacing, viewpoints from all the major characters and a few twist and turns will keep you interested.	2001-06-16
US	52914183	RH1LXCKQ9CTQN	0761101861	8649308	Beauty: The New Basics	Books	3	47	52	N	N	Lots of territory is covered but.....	Rona Berg has done a credible job with this large volume of work detailing beauty treatments for your body, face, hair, etc.  She also tries to do something that most beauty experts won't attempt and that is to give you actual brand names of products that you can go out and buy.  I also found the layout to be very good.  It's easy on the eyes and you can quickly find what you are interested in learning about.  Those are all pluses.<br />A minus is if you are a woman of color.  She tries... she really does to address some of the specifics of women of color but it's woefully lacking especially about hair.  I have Asian friends that have lots of issues that weren't addressed as well as African American friends that could not follow the advise given in this book because it would either damage their hair or just plain couldn't be done.  I am not sure how Rona should have addressed such broad topics but maybe disclaimers would help.  She does however give nice tips for what she does include that might be viewed as traditionally African American such as braids.  Her info is right on but there's so little of it and at least 4 or 5 more pages would be needed to tell enough to someone that was trying to find enough not to do something foolish.  <br />It can be used as a nice reference book but understand you may have to do further research on some topics because they just aren't covered in enough detail.  All in all I am not sorry I bought the book it's worth the money.	2001-06-10
US	52914183	R2X01KXTYTBMF7	0425180883	22156232	Iron Chef: The Official Book	Books	3	11	11	N	Y	Love Love Love the TV show... the book was not all that!	The book was was very enlightening in explaining how things got started, giving you a chronological view of all the battles (albeit they neglected to say who won each battle) and a few (very few) insights into some of the key players.  <br />Each chef gets a few pages to talk about their stint on the show and if one of them had not mentioned the idea of hints we would never know that about the show.  They are given 5 hints as to what the secret ingredient will be about a week before taping.  That gives them time to come up with possible menus.  This kind of irked me.  Why did we find out a valuable piece of info like this through Iron Chef Chinese and it's not fully explained who comes up with the hints nor any examples of the hints.  I would have liked a little more insight into this aspect of the show.<br />What I did enjoy was hearing about it from everyone's perspective from the announcers, chefs, directors, producers, etc.  I also think that a little more explanation of Japanese culture regarding losing vs. winning might have helped to explain some of the reactions of the chefs to losing a battle.<br />All in all it was enjoyable to read the behind the scenes info regarding the show but it certainly left a true fan wanting more.	2001-06-10
US	52914183	R31K37H2ONG4ZM	0671025368	758176148	The Coldest Winter Ever	Books	2	5	9	N	Y	Trite, narrow focus but interesting in a morbid way...	In a nutshell it's a story of right and wrong and a young girl who keeps thinking she is making all the right decisions but of course they are all wrong.  All her decisions are based on money, material possessions and her own immediate needs.  Of course that can't be the right thing and so she pays a terrible price for not having the good sense to be nice.<br />As a story it was quite predictable although I thought she would die at the end of the book but she doesn't.  Sorry if I blew the suspense for anyone.  That was the only surprise for me.  Sister Souljah toots her own horn just a little too much for me... it starts to get on your nerves.  I read a lot of the reviews and a lot of them said that this should be mandatory reading for young people.  I don't think they would get it.  They would call Winter stupid and she was.  I think that, in truth, if you are really street smart you wouldn't make some of the decisions she made.  As most young people would say today, she was just plain dumb.  Given that they know they wouldn't make those same stupid choices they won't think this is applicable.  They won't view this as something that could possibly happen to them.<br />It's an easy read especially if you zoom through the preachy sections.	2001-06-02
US	52914183	R2RO1N5IDZCXWL	0965566307	70462074	The Kink Kollection	Books	2	30	30	N	Y	Lovely Color Photos but not much else.....	The Kink Collection is not a 'how to' book for natural hair care.  I say this in my first sentence because if that is your goal you can keep going to another book.  I have chemical free hair and I am always on the look out for books discussing nappy/kinky hair and so I thought I had found one here.  The book does have some basic info on hair care but if you want the Bible of chemical free hair care you should purchase &quot;Let's Talk Hair&quot; by Pamela Ferrell and get enough info to really properly maintain your hair.  <br />While it was short of real technique info on basic hair care it did have some beautiful photos of natural hair styles.  As another reviewer stated, they used extensions but I have managed to achieve some of the styles without the use of extensions.  It was good to get some different ideas on how to style my hair and you can't beat that.  Don't get too excited because there aren't that many pics but what they do have is of good quality.<br />Three is a lot of info in the back of the book on state licensing organizations and a check list of what you want to do if you are starting your own hair care business.  So while that wasn't my interest I still kept the book....	2001-02-16
US	52914183	R1IXMA0LSUGTO2	0312251912	949281698	Fattitudes : Beat Self-Defeat and Win Your War with Weight	Books	3	96	106	N	Y	Simple and Practical approach to weight loss	The authors of the book are two practicing psychologist.  They decided to write a book about what makes people tick when it comes to controlling their food intake and in turn what can you do to manage it.  I am an avid reader and I also have had ups and downs with my weight so I have read a lot of health and diet books trying to find the solution that would work for me.  There is nothing wrong, misleading or contradictory to any info they impart.  <br />A lot of time is spent giving short, one page or less, case studies of people who fit a particular type of problem they find causes people to turn to food.  Later on in the book, they provide short exercises for you to do to help identify your specific issues.  I can find nothing wrong with this particular approach to weight management as they are trying to attack the root of the problem not the results.  It's another way to go so you won't find any recipes in here.  They quote the standard eat right and exercise motto everyone else does.<br />The short coming of the book is there is not enough problem solving info.  I already knew why and when I eat.  So parts I and II aren't going to buy me a lot.  I suspect other women my age who want to get a handle on their eating are in the same boat as myself.  How to effectively deal with the specific problems is not given enough effort.  <br />If you are not sure about the underlying reasons people turn to food and which of those reasons is applicable to you then this book will certainly help you identify them.  If you have that already figured out and want detailed solutions on how to overcome these reasons for eating then you may not be so happy with this book.	2000-09-28
US	52914183	RADXF21DZ9WME	0786885416	783786804	The Hungry Ocean: A Swordboat Captain's Journey	Books	2	9	15	N	N	Very Technical Fishing Journal but... lacking in personality	THE GIRL CAN FISH!  No doubt about it.  I was singularly impressed with  Linda's knowledge of the mechanics of fishing.  While sometimes it was hard  for me to visual the things she was trying to explain, it was clear there  is a definite science to the technical aspects of being able to 1) locate  fish by knowing how to search based on water temperatures at different  depths and 2)knowing and understanding the sea.  The writing style is, for  the most part, very plain and straight forward.  No problem there.  <br />I  would have to give the author negative points for her people skills.  I  give her high points for being so honest about her shortcomings.  The  problem though, is she clearly does not view these as short comings.  There  are two major points in the book for which she admits she does not handle  well but in the end puts off either making a real decision that comes with  the territory of being captain.<br />There is the racial hatred displayed by  one of the young crewman towards the sole black crew member.  This hatred  is in the form of constant name calling at every opportunity.  Ugly words  as you can imagine.  The person being victimized is not the first to bring  it to the attention of the author but one of the other crewmen who is just  sick and tired of hearing the ugly insults.  She doesn't confront the men  and nip it in the bud, they have to find her.  First is Peter, the black  crewman, who lets her know that he is growing frustrated with the insults  and may end up hurting the name caller.  She immediately threatens him and  tells him no matter what the guy calls him, he is not to lay one hand on  the name caller.  In other words, just shut up and take it and she will  deal with the name caller herself.  Well eventually he comes to her and she  asks him to stop and he saids he will.  But he doesn't.  No where in the  book does she try to actually put a stop to it.  She does, however,  occasionally mention the tension between the two and thefact that the  black crewman basically has to isolate himself from the rest of them in  order to get away from the insults.  Abhorrent and totally lacking in  humanity.  As Captain she should have laid down the law and if the young  man couldn't make himself comply make his wages reflect the fact along with  his chores.  She did absolutely nothing which essentially condoned this  horrible behavior.<br />The second event which identifies total lack of real  management skills is when Charlie is truly ill and she does nothing about  it.  She in fact puts the question to Charlie as to what should she do  about his illness.  Not one to let the success or failure of the trip rest  on his shoulders he bravely tells her yes he is sick but that they should  keep fishing.  What the real point is that she mentions over and over is  her fear of disappointing Bob Brown the owner of the boat.  Her  insecurities run deep and people connected with her can't count on her for  true support or understanding.  It's not there.  I don't think this is a  female or male thing but a lack of development as a person thing.<br />If you  don't want like reading about how to lay lines, how to fish and how to find  fish then this book wouldn't be for you.<br />I have to also comment like some  of the other reviewers the author's statement regarding the state of the  swordfishing industry.  No where in this entire book does she once mention  any kind of self policing by the fishing industry yet she makes claim that  they know best.  Obviously they don't, as they don't have quotas, nor do  they have any sort of rule as to how over fished a particular site has  become.  I thought the comment about &quot;Chef Fancy Pants&quot; was funny  and sad.  The author is clearly irritated at the attempt by others to stick  their noses into her life's work that she doesn't offer one bit of  constructive input as how to come to a happy medium.  Just to let them  manage their own and all the do gooder chefs should just worry about how to  cook the fish she catches.  If she sounds trite and a little naive it's  because I truly don't think she believes that they will eventually fish  themselves out of a living.<br />There isn't a correlation with the writing  style of author of the &quot;Perfect Storm&quot; nor the excitement in the  story telling.  This is just the raw facts about how to catch swordfish,  the type of people that do this for a living and some of the folklore  surrounding the industry.	2000-09-06
US	52914183	R3PHRAGSNFLPR1	0812571878	422011862	Violent Crimes (A Larry Cole Mystery)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Excellent cops and bad guys novel set in Chicago....	I certainly enjoyed this work by Hugh Holton with its many characters, subplots and time periods.  I have to give Hugh kudos for being able to jump between time periods without losing you.  It helps that he dates the  section prior to reading it but it also helps that what he brings up from  the past is relevant to what is going on in the present.  Some writers get  carried away and go off on a tangent and Hugh doesn't do that.<br />In this  novel Larry Cole has a major role with some of his history explained which  I found to be enlightening.  The bad guy is of course a looney but aren't  they all... he is revealed way in advance but that's okay because you find  out a lot more about him to still make him interesting as the book goes on.   <br />You will find yourself talking back to the book....  wishing characters  would do the right thing... you just get involved.  I love it when a writer  can get me involved as opposed to my looking at it from twenty feet above.   It's always a good sign that there is good character development with some  humor thrown in and you certainly get that here.<br />I live in Chicago and  one of the joys of this book is that the author is dead on in his  description of the city.  He doesn't change street names, buildings or how  the city functions just to make his book work.  All the &quot;EL  stops&quot; are correct for instance and if you know the city well you will  be able to place yourself physically in the area he is describing which  makes it all the better.	2000-07-31
US	52914183	R1LSKSPOFBBY0C	0352334487	389183918	Velvet Glove (Black Lace)	Books	3	1	2	N	N	Entertaining, sexual but kind of light on the D/S	I enjoyed Ms. Holly's novel about a very ripe twenty two year old recent collge grad.  I found her use of the english language, creation of an actual storyline and character development most refreshing.  You just don't  get that in most of these types of books.  That's why she gets the 3 stars  from me.  <br />The reason she didn't get more stars is because she was  inconsistent.  For instance when she is with Sterling, her first Dom in  Florida, Ms. Holly is very very descriptive.  She describes how Sterling  dominates her and plays out the scenes.  When she takes up with Patrick,  her one true love, she is very descriptive about the sex but woefully  lacking in any sort of description of dominating by Patrick.  Yet time and  time again we are to believe he's really good at it and our little lady  falls in love with him because she has never been mastered so skillfully.   When you buy D/S books you want some d/s plus the sex.  Call me greedy.   But it was entertaining and I don't regret buying it.	2000-07-09
US	52914183	R3LPAI8KPW7RR4	0877900426	498096550	Apple Cider Vinegar - Miracle Health System	Books	3	261	310	N	N	Lots of info on health, some on food &amp; a dose of religion.	The Bragg's were definitely into a providing the public with healthful info about the need to protect your precious health even if it was a little uneven and heavy handed.  This book is full of different methods to use  apple cider vinegar(acv) to keep our bodies in optimal shape.  I think what  was surprising for me is the book has info on a healthy lifestyle in  general.  They definitely support a raw food diet with periodic fasting and  acv to keep everything running optimally.  There is also quite a bit of  info to support the drinking of distilled water.  They go to some lengths  to explain all the chemicals currently found in our drinking water.  There  are also pages devoted to fasting and the benefits of trying this as a  detox methodology.<br />I found all this info very useful.  Had I been  familiar with the Braggs I might not have bought the book because they are  also quite religious.  There are numerous references to religious practices  thrown in amongst the info they impart on acv.  I believe everyone has a  right to their religious beliefs, nothing wrong with that, just not  expecting to be preached at.... while trying to pick up health tips.  It  catches you off guard and becomes annoying.  <br />The book does have lots of  info on the practical benefits of daily use of acv in our diet.  I  especially liked what they said about using it to help strengthen your hair  and to help restore your skin to a smooth clear appearance.  I don't want  to forget one of the main reasons I picked this book up at the health food  store.  The table of contents is very very detailed.  You can scan for  exactly the topics you want and go directly to that page.  That's good so  you can go directly to what ails you.  So understand when you pick up this  slim volume you get more than just acv recipes.	2000-07-04
US	52914183	R31GR41IC7LY8M	0812544641	909772288	Chicago Blues (Larry Cole)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Fast paced, great character development and a good story.	Hugh Holton has created an excellent Chicago based story that weaves in at least 3 main story lines with at least 3 more sub stories.  I currently live in the windy city and it was fun to read the street locations, etc.  and know that they did in fact exist and were accurate in their  descriptions.  I am usually not a fan of the author that tells the story by  jumping from one character's view to another character's view but in this  case it really works.  You understand the psyche of the story teller of the  moment and Hugh does an excellent job of tying one lead in to another.  In  other words you are never left hanging as to why he went from one point of  view to another.  That's usually where the some author's go wrong when  trying to tell a story from multiple viewpoints.<br />If I had a complaint,  mind you this is real small, it's that I would have liked a few more pages  devoted to the cop Larry Cole.  I suspect Hugh didn't give him more pages  because he himself is a cop.<br />You'll find yourself sympathizing with  Reggie,one of the main characters, his upbringing with his grandmother and  uncle Ernst and then what the FBI does to him when all he wanted to be was  a law abiding cop.  Even though Hugh is busy telling you the story straight  out you keep second guessing him and you end up surprised in the end.   Although Hugh can be forgiven his slight digression of giving away who  Reggie's father was so early in the book.<br />Speaking as one who is easily  bored I have to say at every opportunity I had I would pick up this book to  read it and managed to finish it in a couple of days.  I can't wait to get  to his other books.	2000-06-15
US	52914183	RJIWJ6IJILVHA	0767902874	723899252	How to Be a Great Lover: Girlfriend-to-Girlfriend Totally Explicit Techniques That Will Blow His Mind	Books	4	44	46	N	Y	WOW!  I only wish I had a video of this book.	I really liked this book for content, instruction and the sense of humor throughout it.  I am no spring chicken and consider myself a good lover but there were so many ideas new to me that I felt as if I were 16 again and  trying things for just the first time.  I recently became engaged and  bought this book because I liked the other reviews and I wanted to keep my  sex life with my partner interesting once we got into the day to day hum  drum of married life.  <br />I don't want to get explicit because this is a  public forum but there were two exercises alone that would have made me  purchase the book.  Let's just say they are oral in nature and had I known  how to do them years ago it would have been so much more fun and easier for  me to make my partners happy.  The author tries her best to give very  detailed instructions and I find it best to get something to practice on,  or to try and simulate the instruction so that you aren't trying to figure  it out right at that romantic moment.<br />I told my partner that I had bought  this book and he laughed and assured me that he was quite happy with me as  I was.  While flattering to hear I am glad I went ahead and read the book  and so is he.  I don't tell him the secrets I have picked up I just do them  and watch for the excellent results.  While everything hasn't thrilled the  socks off of him, enough of the things have and it makes it worthwhile.  At  least nothing has caused him any discomfort and that's something too.<br />I  also have to give this book kudos for giving me more self confidence to  experiment out of my safe little haven of tricks.  It's made me more aware  of erogenous zones and it's made me more adventuresome.  There's nothing  like reading a section of the book and all the fun of planning how to  implement.....  he won't know what you are going to do to him next but he's  going to enjoy your trying it.  And remember ladies.... there's nothing  like repeating the really fun stuff.	2000-05-23
US	52914183	R2XPUSEMPKOTXN	0917188217	465321358	Fasting for the Health of It	Books	3	3	3	N	N	The case studies are interesting but not the author's	I gave this book 3 stars because it does contain information regarding the fasting experience that is from a variety of sources.  There are short and medium length case histories of the affects of fasting on wide variety of  the population.  What I found kind of silly was the author's description of  her own month long fasting experience.  She kept a diary but seemed to not  have had much insight into her own personal self.  Instead she gives dry  comments on who was feeling good that day and her developing crush on one  of the guest who is quite religious.  She also talks about her lapse from  the recommendations of the clinic and Herbert Shelton in general.  But,  unfortunately she doesn't explore it in a way that would be of help to  those people who fall of the band wagon.  As a study recently pointed out  in the diet industry people lose weight all the time but very few of them  manage to keep that weight off.	2000-05-20
US	52914183	R1WKG77UEPY7E8	0130575712	112411251	Heinerman's Encyclopedia of Healing Juices: From a Medical Anthropologist's Files, Here Are Nature's Own Healing Juices for Hundreds of Today's Most Common Health Problems	Books	4	89	91	N	Y	Excellent, Excellent Guide	I truly use this book as my juicing reference guide.  At first I was disappointed in the structure of the book in that it was listed by vegetable and fruit names.  I wanted the standard listing of recipes under  the standard categories and boy am I glad this one is not like that.  I  have other juice books that give me enough recipes to cure anything that  ails me.  What this book provides is very good info about all the  ingredients in a recipe and you can figure out subsitutions in an  intelligent manner.  This book is worth its weight in gold for that alone.   I mean all of us just can't get into parsley now can we.  Get this book  it's worth every penny.	2000-05-18
US	52914183	R1NZSER03RLTNY	0440225132	710176200	Ten Days to Detox	Books	3	1	3	N	Y	Good  with a little bit of a twist	When I became interested in detox as a general subject I started reading a lot of books and came across this one.  This book offers more than one method of detoxification which I especially appreciated but at the same  time I wasn't that crazy about some of the alternatives but that could just  be more.  Overall it was informative, cheap and easy to understand.	2000-05-18
US	52914183	R2YI0ZN5REPPA6	055357681X	166024671	The Seeds of Time (Bantam Spectra Book--T.P. Verso)	Books	4	1	1	N	Y	Interesting Sci Fi angle but raw	What I mean by raw is that Clio, the main character, isn't a pretty picture.  Strung out on drugs and not the smartest person she is never the less able to get you into her corner as you make your way through this  book.  If you have problems with time elements, such as the future and the  past, etc. then you won't like this book because the author jumps from time  period to time period which means Clio is living differently in all of  them.  I liked it because it kept me on my toes.	2000-05-18
US	52914183	R3NE5J6B6B9F3G	0890877335	962817363	The Women's Health Companion: Self Help Nutrition Guide and Cookbook	Books	4	6	8	N	Y	Excellent reference guide	Susan Lark has provided a very good source of dietary information to help you control your fibroids.  You start to understand the connection and to also understand that your body is just a little too good at some of the  things it does for you.   Sort of like a cursing and a blessing.  You  figure if we all still lived in caves you would be in your element because  with a healthy blood supply like yours you would have definitely been one  of the sought after females for producing offspring.  But alas, we live in  a different time and we need the info Susan can provide to stay away from  doctors and drugs that do more harm than good.  <br />I don't follow  everything she saids but I follow enough to know that it does make a  difference.  Even if amazon.com doesn't have a current copy try and find a  used one, it is worth it.	2000-05-18
US	52914183	R3J5ZT4HE3BA04	1567184758	892448927	Mind Magic Kit	Books	2	5	19	N	Y	I didn't like it	I regret purchasing this package.  It made me feel quite foolish when I got it.  I will give the author credit in that his magic is in getting anyone to buy this stuff in the first place.  I gave him the two stars for  being a good con man.	2000-05-18
US	52914183	R3LI770WO7SXOT	0805053077	944702418	The Defense	Books	4	1	3	N	Y	Suspense of the highest order	Do you like a mental challenge, do you like sharp and witty dialogue, if so then you are really gonna like this book.  I guessed some of the plot but a lot was a surprise to me and as an avid mystery reader it was a  pleasant surprise.  At first you think you can't stomach the behavior of  some of the characters, especially some of the child abuse, but with the  twists and turns you find yourself suspecting, feeling sorry for or hating  all the characters.  You know enough to care about and to understand the  ending.	2000-05-18
US	52914183	R271L7E9U88V1I	067179227X	926409967	Den of Thieves	Books	5	4	6	N	N	Highly recommended - Easy for the Layman to Understand	James Stewart has a knack for storytelling.  Even something that could be potentially dry as all get out he explains clearly and without a lot of hoopla.  It is, what it is and that's the truth.  Some people think his  work is biased but I was knee deep in all of this when it was happening.  I  saw the after affects of all the mergers and buyouts.  I worked in a large  financial institution that provided some of the funding for these deals and  I was able to see the deals up close and personal.  Stewart doesn't  exaggerate a thing so all you guys out there crying he's biased you need a  reality check.  What he documents is how corporate America lost its soul.   How the average worker was further displaced, how corporate america quietly  lost (and couldn't figure it out later) the loyalty of its work force.  The  affects of downsizing (reduction in force) are exacting a terrible price  today.  Ever wonder where customer service went.  It went out the window  when workers realized that 30 years with a company meant nothing and that a  CEO could get paid 5 million for just being there and he didn't have to be  competent.  <br />Read it and think about it especially now that some time has  passed since it was first written and tell me you don't get a chill down  your spine.	2000-05-18
US	52914183	RAC8HDBT3QWSW	1891696084	204161383	The Pilates Method of Body Conditioning: Introduction to the Core Exercises	Books	3	21	24	N	Y	Ok guide to Pilates but you do need one on one instruction	I agree with the other reviewers that you can get a very well rounded program put together and you can feel marvelous afterwards.  What you can't get from this book is the exact positioning, the feedback from someone  watching you to make sure your shoulders don't slump and you have your  knees bent correctly.  You can only get that from one on one instruction  and with Pilates that's the only way to truly get the real benefits.  Just  as everyone saids its costly.  You may be able to supplement one on one  with videos and the books.  You might want to get a couple of lessons to  get started so you understand body positioning and its importance, then get  videos (someone mentioned Jennifer Kries and she is excellent I have most  of her tapes) and then you might want to get a couple of books, this being  one of them.  I would periodically go and get Pilates instruction to make  sure I am not developing any bad habits, etc.  <br />Another reviewer  mentioned a pet peeve of mine and that is the fact that our government  allowed an individual to copy right the name Pilates.  It's ridiculous and  they weren't allowed to do that in Europe.  There are some excellent tapes  in Britain which can't be sold here because of the copy right issue and  it's a shame.  It's expensive because they have the market cornered and I  don't like that at all, it's not fair competition.  I have attended  instruction with groups and one on one where they emphasize they are based  on the teachings of Pilates which is how they get around the copy right  issue.  Look for those in your area and you'll find they are cheaper and  doing the very same exercises but they have to call them something  else.<br />Try this book you will definitely find it useful.	2000-05-18
US	52914183	R1BNO8RBAC8TMD	0965353338	349415436	The Sunfood Diet Success System: 36 Lessons in Health Transformation	Books	3	31	45	N	Y	Good Info but crosses that invisible line	When you first start reading the book you are amazed at the info being provided and you begin to feel like you have just had a dark cloud lifted from around you but.....  It's a big but, you start to read lines that are  a bit radical that don't seem like it's something that can really work.   All of us can't retreat to the woods and eat watermelon (with the seeds  mind you) all day.  Stuff like that was annoying.  I do however agree with  a lot of the food principles especially since a lot of it has been  substantiated by other authors.  I do find this book is good as a reference  from time to time and I try not to think to hard about the patronizing  attitude of the author.	2000-05-18
US	52914183	R376C49WK3TXH3	1878736973	665991863	Wheatgrass Nature's Finest Medicine: The Complete Guide to Using Grass Foods & Juices to Revitalize Your Health	Books	4	36	47	N	Y	Excellent source of information	If you have ever been curious about wheat grass then this is a very good book.  It's now the rage at all the juice bars even at the mall.  The book explains the different types of grass, why one is better than another and  what to avoid.  I now have a much sharper eye and always demand to see the  wheat grass before it gets pressed.  I avoid the juice bars with ignorant  kids working at them because they don't know what they are doing and so why  waste my time.  It's not preachy and I also appreciate that too.	2000-05-18
US	52914183	R5SQKDGH6P5TW	068484401X	448037922	The Motley Fool Investment Workbook	Books	4	4	4	N	Y	New to Investing well then Step Right Up	You will definitely enjoy the humor and laid back style of these characters.  I had the privilige of hearing them speak at a conference and they really do wear the hats and try to de-mystify all this investment  stuff.  I had more of a financial background that some of my co-investors  in a newly formed investment club and this workbook was certainly a  blessing to them.  What's a p/e ratio well you can look anyone in the eye  and give them the straight skinny after doing the exercise in this book.   As a matter of fact you will come away with a few jokes to help others  understand it's no big deal.  So if you don't like your financial info dry  then give it a try.	2000-05-18
US	52914183	R1TM8TOI43HWPA	0965506428	68732258	African American Woman's Guide to Successful Make-up and Skin Care	Books	2	40	43	N	Y	A big no no..... ALMOST NO PICS	I have to disagree with the other reviewers.  As someone just trying to learn how to apply makeup I didn't find this book helpful at all.  I especially didn't like the use of drawings instead of pics.  You can draw  whatever you like but it's not the same as looking at a pic of someone who  is supposed to have small close set eyes... you all know what I mean.  I  don't think this is a good book for the novice and that includes the skin  care tips.  Wash your face twice a day and don't use drying products.   There that should take care of the cleansing routine and I have saved you  some money to boot.....  I expected better than this.	2000-05-18
US	52914183	R6UQNLR1ORS6A	1878736574	299193867	Food Combining and Digestion: A Rational Approach to Combining What You Eat to Maximize Digestion and Health	Books	1	14	19	N	Y	Content  really merits 0 stars	I returned this book because I was so disappointed in the content.  Thin doesn't necessarily mean it doesn't have anything to say but in this case it certainly was true.  Don't bother with this silly book and look for some  of the other books listed above as sources for info on food combining.	2000-05-18
US	52914183	R2K3KUKCXPT6EU	1560871385	465733999	The Science of Getting Rich	Books	4	9	13	N	N	Very Interesting but I am still not clear	Of late I have been reading books about abundance, getting everything you want and getting the riches I deserve and they all have the same theme.  I think this is a good thing as opposed to a bad thing in that it gives you  confidence that it really works or a sneaky suspicion they all copied from  each other.  That not withstanding, I certainly believe that this  particular book conveyed what you have to do in a rather straight forward  and simple manner, that is until you got to the last 2 chapters.  I was  lost.  It seems that if you are going to fail it will be due to the last 2  ambiguous chapters.  You are to work efficiently but exactly what that  means isn't really explained.  You are told to do what needs to be done in  the most efficient manner and to get it done right away.  In the next  sentence you are told not to overwork and only do what is in the present.  If you follow my drift this is a vicious circle and I never understood  exactly how I was to achieve success with that one.  I would still  recommend the book because it further strengthens the idea that thoughts  can manifest themselves in a very real way.	2000-05-18
US	52914183	R3GXVFH8B2CE56	0890877734	53203154	Fibroid Tumors and Endometriosis	Books	4	95	98	N	Y	Excellent book to explain fibroids	Susan Lark is an excellent writer who is able to explainfibroids in straight forward english to the average woman.  I, forone, am an African American woman who by just looking at the nature of the statistics is in the higher percentile of women who will be fibroid inflicted.  Sure enough by the time I was 35 I was diagnosed with fibroids that were stretching my uterus to the equivalency of a 6 month pregnancy.  While I didn't look 6 months pregnant the doctor assured me my uterus was being stretched to that extent and that surgery was the only option.  I had the surgery only to be told by the doctor the next day that he left one in because I was bleeding too much and that in a couple of years it too would need to be removed. What he later explained to me was that he was not familiar with the new laser surgery methods which radically limits amount of bleeding. I was put on steriods for about 9 months to help shrink my fibroids and then underwent the surgery.  By the way the steroids purpose is to stop the blood flow to the uterus and it does this by throwing you into a false menopause.  A side effect of the false menopause is that you lose calcium from your bones.  Wonderful so don't you think.  My surgery went fine except this time the doctor cut a few nerves which made my left leg go numb.  It took over 6 months for the nerves to connect again and was it ever fun to have electric shocks go throw you whenever every day as the nerves reconnected.  Also if you have never had numbness you know how uncomfortable that feeling can be, you know pins and needles.<br />I went into all that graphic detail to let you know it all could have been avoided had I known and read books like the one Susan has here.  Not only do I now understand the importance of diet, heredity and exercise in the growth of these tumors I understand that I am in control not the fibroids and not my doctors. The doctors mean well but they are still ignorant of a lot of information.  By the way, after my second surgery the doctor informed me that I would still probably have fibroids at some stage of development, like 75% of the women in America but hopefully they would stay a manageable size until I went into menopause.  By the way, I am taking certain herbs to help me, I do yoga, I manage my diet and guess what?  My doctor can barely find a fibroid.  They are there but really tiny.  Susan also has a book on diet and nutrition that is excellent and should be used in conjunction with this book.  ENDsecond surgery the doctor informed me that I would still probably have fibroids at some stage of development, like 75% of the women in America but hopefully they would stay a manageable size until I went into menopause.  By the way, I am taking certain herbs to help me, I do yoga, I manage my diet and guess what?  My doctor can barely find a fibroid.  They are there but really tiny.  Susan also has a book on diet and nutrition that is excellent and should be used in conjunction with this book.  END	2000-05-17
US	52914183	R2GIGNA7J3QKXT	0060392622	702491703	Raw: The Uncook Book: New Vegetarian Food for Life	Books	4	25	34	N	Y	Simple, Complex and all that goes in between	The author is eccentric (to say the least) and just brillant.  I have other raw food cookbooks and this one is by far the best.  The pics are absolutely gorgeous.  I am one of those people who definitely needs a pic  because for a lot of these dishes I just couldn't imagine how they should  be presented.  The ideas are fabulous and the ingredients are not difficult  to find.  I can actually eat these food combinations without going yuck.   While I am not a die hard meat eater I find that when left to my own  devices I prefer raw foods.  I now take advantage of the summer season to  get the freshest vegetables possible from my local farmer's market and the  difference in the tast is incredible.  Take for instance corn on the cob.   Corn that has just been picked taste so very different than the corn that  was picked two days ago.  Going to your local farmer's market enables you  to see and taste the difference between freshly picked vegetables and what  we usually get in the super market.  These raw recipes virtually come alive  with flavor.  Now I have to work on what to do during the winter.......	2000-05-16
US	52914183	R146A9QC3SBVR8	0895292343	473844743	The Wheatgrass Book: How to Grow and Use Wheatgrass to Maximize Your Health and Vitality	Books	4	41	47	N	Y	Wonderful information	Since reading this book I find myself taking advantage of juice bars that serve wheatgrass shots.  Mind you I look at the age and ask the type of grass they are serving but boy do I feel confident after having read this  book that it can only make me feel better.  I don't generally feel any sort  of rush from having ingested wheat grass but you do have a sense of overall  health after awhile.  It could be psychological or the actual wheatgrass  but which ever I have seen a definite improvement since following some of  the options given in the book.	2000-05-16
US	52914183	RWYX0S67BV7C4	094263764X	159403367	The Encyclopedia of Unusual Sex Practices	Books	3	4	10	N	Y	When they say Encyclopedia they mean Encyclopedia	Use this as a reference guide to settle arguments with your friends or spouse because just trying to read it will be really difficult.  It does cover any and everything will enough information to satisfy your curiosity  and point you in the direction to find more.	2000-05-16
US	52914183	R1DRGKURFRR2B1	0345413636	265856585	Low-Fat Soul	Books	3	14	17	N	Y	Not any pics	I liked a lot of the recipes but I just can't abide by a cookbook that doesn't have any pics.  It's just too cheap for me.  I need pics because I can't cook that well and I am admitting upfront that it's a necessary  thing.  That aside I have found the recipes to be quite tasty with only a  few being a little bland.	2000-05-16
US	52914183	R3BL9KCQUDZ818	1563336685	197033051	Trinkets	Books	2	3	4	N	Y	Trinket.... well maybe	I have read a lot of d/s novels and this one is just ok.  The writing is bearable but some of the plot left a lot to be desired and to be believed.  No it's not the sex scenes it's the main characters actions which start to  seem really goofy given her earlier actions.  Not delicious and just a  little too much spanking for my taste.	2000-05-16
US	52914183	R26YZAIFK6GS46	031218719X	112003240	Fasting and Eating for Health: A Medical Doctor's Program for Conquering Disease	Books	4	19	21	N	Y	A down to earth and practical guide to better health	I found this book to be one of the better sources of information regarding fasting.  It takes a subject that is somewhat taboo and breaks it down into simple and understandable terms.  I think it's worth reading even if you  don't want to practice what is being discussed.  It never hurts to  understand what is going on even if you don't want to do it.  I will tell  you this, I have followed this book and a few others and have made  tremendous gains.  Not in weight but in my health.  One of the benefits  that can't be touted enough is the true feeling of being in control of your  own body.  Once you get that feeling you lose this sense of helplessness  and understand that your health is your own responsibility.	2000-05-16
US	52914183	R14TGVE6IB76LJ	0679450947	908643969	Nobody Knows the Truffles I've Seen	Books	3	3	5	N	Y	No self esteem problems here......	Mr. Lang has been blessed with talent and a lot of luck.  As with anyone that has been faced with adversity I admire them like all get out when they manage to succeed and so it is with Mr. Lang.  I have no doubt that his  great big ego (gosh it's gotta be heavy carrying all that around) is well  deserved.  I however had a hard time stomaching some of this stuff he was  spewing.  His having done this and that and taking all the credit for it  kind of got on my nerves.  While he claims he is a nice man I got the  distinct impression that if you weren't somebody then George wouldn't have  a lot of time for you.	2000-05-16
US	52914183	R2JRH8EDD4ZKKX	0802130127	177081917	The 120 Days of Sodom and Other Writings	Books	1	6	19	N	Y	A collection of badly put together ramblings....	Everyone seems to have forgotten that this is not a novel per se.  That while in jail and while hiding out he was jotting down notes and a sort of outline.  These were collected and somehow now have the title of being a  book.  If it weren't for the subject matter no one in their right mind  would have let this work get published.  The subject matter at hand is S/M  or let's just say plain ole torture.  I have to believe the lure for some  people is that they think it has the ring of truth to it.  That the author  was actually practicing this stuff or would have if he could get away with  it.  I suspect that makes it less than the drudgery it really is.  Incest  and the chopping off of various body parts starts to lose some of the  thrill once you have read about it a good ten or thirty times. <br />The  Marquis knew his writing limitations, liked his sex with young, stupid and  easily manipulated people and above all thought like most of the  aristocracy of his time; that the world owed him for just being around.  He  needed money and that's what this book is about, MONEY.  If he had the time  he would have polished it up and you bet earned more money, please people,  garbage in, garbage out.	2000-05-16
US	52914183	R3KQ0Q8PD4NZB5	0805042970	914141257	The Breathing Book: Good Health and Vitality Through Essential Breath Work	Books	4	41	56	N	Y	Excellent book	I must admit I wasn't expecting to be impressed by this book yet I was.  I liked the way the exercises were grouped so as to provide maximum benefit.  It's also nice to get a complete understanding of what are the benefits to  an exercise too.  You can't go wrong with the clear directions provided by  the author.	2000-05-16
US	52914183	RKP9ZVV2MPEPJ	0140263357	728659407	Comfort Woman	Books	3	4	9	N	Y	Why is it that foreign authors are held to a higher standard	than American authors?  I read through some of the reviews and they were mean and very belittling to the author.  In my opinion the author was conveying the story of a Korean mother and daughter relationship set with  the back drop of the mother's horrific war time experience.  It's not as if  every detail is the &quot;truth&quot; or not it is to say here is a fact.   There were horrible atrocities committed against the Korean people, women  in particular by the Japanese.  It doesn't mean every word in the book is  an actual fact.  The story line is made all the more interesting by the  mother's descent into madness and not meant to be an insult Shamanism.   Give it a break guys and quit being so critical, try to just enjoy the book  for the overall message.	2000-05-16
US	52914183	R20X8X2QASWE0W	1884872743	207573794	The Art of Breathing : Six Simple Lessons to Improve Performance, Health and Well-Being (Book and Video)	Books	4	22	23	N	Y	Practice, practice and more practice	I got this quite a while ago and was very excited about doing the tape.  But while I was excited initially and actually felt good I stopped doing them because I got busy with a project at work and never really went back  to it.  I was cleaning out my tape library and came across the tape.  I  started doing the exercises and realized just how good they were and just  how out of shape I was.  Some of the exercises are not easy but she does a  wonderful job of explaining how to do them and what you can do as  alternatives as you develop your technique.  She seems the ever patient  teacher as she calmly moves you along to better breathing.	2000-05-16
US	52914183	R35GCFIPW92LVW	1892547007	28136866	Investment Clubs: How to Start and Run One the Motley Fool Way	Books	4	19	19	N	Y	Very very useful and practical reference tool	My friends and I (all women) just recently started an investment club and this book was just great.  It provided useful forms, guidelines and warnings on how to setup your club and who should be in your club.  A lot  seems like common sense and lot isn't.  We took this book with it's nice  forms, etc. and ran with it.  Today we have a bonafide investment club,  filed our taxes and have been making investments that make us happy (not  necessarily rich).  <br />Like some of the others I bought other investment  club books but you really don't need them.  This one will do just as well  and it's entertaining to boot.	2000-05-16
US	52914183	R4YOKTSUTPHM3	0698114361	765928702	Cornrows	Books	4	10	12	N	Y	For young children	I mistakenly ordered this book and once I received it realized it was for children.  I sent it back but read it anyway because it only took a few minutes.  It's an excellent book for young people to learn to take pride in themselves and their heritage and it's an easy read.	2000-05-16
US	52914183	R233EXE9Z767JZ	0939183021	674786002	Let's Talk Hair: Every Black Woman's Personal Consultation for Healthy Growing Hair	Books	4	51	51	N	Y	Well Written and Chock Full of Hair Care Info	Finally, someone that knows what its like to have to really deal with OUR hair.  I use this book as a reference guide when trying to deal with my hair.  Girls, women, females... it's just not easy.  I turned a new leaf at  the age of 40 and began to really get into my health, eating and drinking  habits.  I tend to do my investigation through books and kept coming across  books that talked about the skin's great absorption capabilities.  That  started to finally sink in when it came to my hair.  That why would I put  dangerous chemicals on my scalp for over 20 years and not think eventually  it would catch up with me.  I took the route of growing out my relaxer via  braids for a little over a year.  It worked but I got tired of them too.   My problem which I don't know if it was explained in any book is that while  my hair grew quite nicely while in braids it was also quite damaged.  You  just can't take care of your hair properly the way you need to with  extensions in your hair.  So I have now given up the extensions and have a  head full of wonderful nappy hair and it's scary believe me.  But while it  has taken me some time to get used to shampooing it, combing it and just  getting it tamed, each time I get better and better at it.  Heed the tips  in this book, I did and now I know how to shampoo my hair without getting a  head full of tangles, I know how to blow dry it (if I want to and most  times I don't) and I know how to condition it.  If I have one complaint  it's that there should be more step by step pics of what's going on.  I  have to admit I now have a wig, a false hair piece for buns to cover me for  those days when I just have a tacky looking corn row.  My hair isn't long  enough (not yet anyway) to just throw a long braid down my back but I know  now that it will only get better.  Take the effort, don't listen to all  those out there who encourage the chemicals and be true to yourself, if not  for your own ethnic pride then for your health.	2000-05-16
US	52914183	R3I7K32D6W6FWU	0671738763	709599217	Lie to Me	Books	3	2	3	N	Y	Hmmm....  it's just ok	As I read the other reviews I started to feel as if I had missed the point.  The other reviewers were just crazy about this book and as mysteries go it was just ok, almost dull because I found it easy to predict  the next moves.  Maybe it's just me but I liken this book to something you  read at the airport to kill time in between planes not if you are at home  and have access to lots of other books.	2000-05-16
US	52914183	R39SV0SNK6GC30	1571740570	326930905	Out-of-Body Experiences: How to Have Them and What to Expect	Books	2	8	11	N	Y	I need more explanation	While the book imparted a lot of information there was not enough, to my liking anyway, on how to achieve an out of body experience.  It's way to fuzzy and I was still left with the impression this guy could have just  been dreaming.  The author states on several occassions he thinks he was  having an out of body experience but he is not sure.  When he did try to  verify the experiences scientifically they all failed.  Hmmmmm....  not  that it didn't happen I just think maybe someone else should have tried to  explain it.	2000-05-16
US	52914183	R3HIAY5Z3GTEDT	0932090028	880449513	How to Keep Slim, Healthy and Young With Juice Fasting	Books	4	130	134	N	Y	A very good guide to using juice for detoxification	This is an excellent book to follow to do what people call juice fasting.  I won't get into the language argument of using the term fasting with juicing because everyone knows what you mean.  What the good Dr. has here  is an excellent way for an individual to gain control of their health.  As  a by product you will effortless lose weight and detoxify at the same time.   I can't stress the detox benefits enough as you will simply be amazed at  what happens to your body as you continuously use the program.  Even if you  do it once or twice a year, once a week or whatever you will always realize  benefits.  The program is so very flexible and you shouldn't be bored.  The  first few times I followed the book to the letter of the law and then I  re-read it and found that there were alternatives given that I had glossed  over.  These alternatives make this a very flexible and easy to do routine.   This is the no excuse way of keeping yourself healthy.	2000-05-16
US	52914183	RLUQLOYDSSUSK	0609603221	265085394	Cooking with the Two Fat Ladies	Books	4	5	6	N	Y	Two very delightful characters	Jennifer and Clarissa are a hoot.  If you get the chance watch the reruns of their cooking show on the FoodTV channel.  The recipes are just plain old fashioned good.  I would have given this 5 stars but there aren't  enough pics to keep me happy.	2000-05-16
US	52914183	R2AVNN6FX86YRP	0892813970	86124780	Ways to Better Breathing	Books	4	24	25	N	Y	Something even I could comprehend	I find the thought of doing breathing exercises based on readings from a book a bit daunting.  I am the type that would much rather prefer a class or one on one instruction on how to properly do a breathing exercise.  But... you don't need that with this book.  It's so clearly written that  you feel like the author is right there giving you instructions.  Granted  from time to time I would have to stop what I was doing and read it again  but I always looked at the first couple of tries as a practice session and  then I would do the full blown exercise once I thought I understood what it  was I was to do.  It's clear, concise and to the point....	2000-05-16
US	52914183	R1F0EROVIT4Q42	0446363022	769155149	Angel of Darkness: The True Story of Randy Kraft and the Most HeinousMurder Spree	Books	3	12	14	N	Y	A reminder of how vulnerable we all are.....	This book is so scary because it is real.  The author doesn't have to pump it up to make it seem like more than it is.  It is told in a factual and to the point style and that alone is scary enough.  I sometimes think the true  crime books are worse on the nerves than the fictional books in that you  can always tell yourself it was made up and no one would really do that.   In this case it isn't so and it makes you glad that you haven't run into  the likes of this nut case.  As you read each turn of events you find  yourself thinking that could of been me.  For a few days afterward you find  yourself looking at people, evaluating them until you finally start to lose  that edge and to trust again.  But in the back of your mind you will never  be the same again because the awfulness of one human being to another has  been explained to you in all too much graphic detail.	2000-05-16
US	52914183	R2P6ABPVMWWJB8	0312960476	722348122	Just Between Us Girls: Secrets about Men from the Mayflower Madam	Books	2	13	17	N	Y	It doesn't live up to the title	I was disappointed in the book from the perspective that while it was titalating to get the perspective of Sidney (mostly because of her racy past) I didn't learn anything.  Not that I have that much experience but  only that I would think most women know everything she imparted.  There is  no real know how or instructions on how to get things done but just some  general verbage on what should be done.  Not that it's bad but I think if  you have had one or two relationships already then this book is not the one  for you.  There are several other books on becoming a good lover and  partner that far outshine this one.  I believe it sells because of the  novelty associated with the author and if you like the little juicy tidbits  she throws out here and there you will probably enjoy the book.  If you  want real information on how to really succeed then get something else.	2000-05-16
US	52914183	R1QZILQBGEYZ75	3929512351	762474470	Living on Light - The Source of Nourishment for the New Millennium	Books	1	80	104	N	Y	Too many contradictions	I am not trying to belittle any of the followers of the author but I just have a hard time believing in this notion when it's constantly contradicted.  For instance the author makes a bold statement that she has  gone years without food and then in the next few chapters indicates she has  tea and crackers.  I don't know about anyone else but the statement without  food means just that WITHOUT FOOD.  Not some food sometime.  Nothing wrong  with the ideas but it's not grounded enough in reality.  What would have  been better is more a fundamental approach to how it's actually done.	2000-05-16
US	52914183	R9Y5JV4U22E56	0345409973	347949682	The Cobra Event	Books	4	1	1	N	Y	An almost epidemic with a mystery plot	What can I say, I like medical mysteries and this one is well done.  There is just enough real facts about biology for you to get that creepy feeling as you read along to not mind so much when there are the usual unbelievable  plot jumps.  It's entertaining and not mushy, even though there is a  definite sexual tension going on between the two main characters.  Enjoy  the ride because even towards the end it will surprise you.	2000-05-16
US	52914183	R1PVSPDOTQSUV2	0312151802	499902506	No Lye: The African American Woman's Guide To Natural Hair Care	Books	4	54	55	N	Y	Great Pics and Good Infomation	Tulani has done an excellent job of putting together the much needed info for caring for natural, chemical free, hair.  Why there are so few books on the subject is a mystery to me given the health ramifications involved with  continuously using caustic chemicals on ones scalp.  But, the need to  &quot;fit in&quot; is greater than the need for a healthy life.  Well I am  finally brave enough and secure in my own heart to know that whatever God  gave me is what I have and if it sticks straight up then it sticks straight  up.  I use this book as a reference guide along with Pamela Ferrell and  Lonnice Bonner's books.  It helps to re-read some of the sections when you  are staring in the mirror with a head full of nappy hair and thinking why  oh why don't I just get a perm.  Whenever I feel the urge to take that road  I read one of my reference guides.  Not only for the how to info but the  moral support as well.  My hair is now 6 to 7 inches and growing like  crazy.  In other words it quit breaking off and I think that the longer it  gets the easier it will be to manage.  I look forward to the day I can  easily wear buns and do single braids.  This isn't far off but until this  time I will deal with the twisting and braiding while I wait for a few more  inches to grow.	2000-05-16
US	52914183	RLKYGEC68BE0B	0517884984	200663088	Plaited Glory: For Colored Girls Who've Considered Braids, Locks, and Twists	Books	4	12	13	N	Y	Funny, informative and a nice little reference tool	Lonnice has charm, wit and intelligence which comes bursting through the pages of this little book.  While I am definitely in favor of chemical free hair (that means no chemical texturizing either) you can still use a lot of  the info in this book.  I have found that texturizing can be done naturally  by cornrowing or twisting your hair.  See Pamela Ferrell's book about this  subject matter.  I think you should include this book in your library as a  reference guide because it does have some goods tips, especially about  conditioning your hair.  Some of the products can't be found anymore but  hey there are others that can be substituted and as long as you understand  the concept Lonnice is trying to convey who cares what the product is  called, just do it.	2000-05-16
US	52914183	RGU3D1GJMHIZG	0446671347	248038023	Staying Well With Guided Imagery	Books	1	24	44	N	Y	I am sorry I just didn't get it	I am a true believer in the practice of guided imagery but found this book was not in anyway helpful.  I need more practical hands on with less yik yak about how successful the author has been in other cases.  What about  me, the reader, and what I need as opposed to what you have done for the  supposed others out there.	2000-05-16
US	52914183	R12YU4GL495CPJ	0312243243	150749575	The Second Coming: A Novel	Books	2	8	39	N	Y	Stilted, vague and just plain ole boring.	My title for my review sums up how I ended up feeling about this book.  I bought this book based on not only the other reviews for this book but also some of the reviews I read for his other books.  It is probably a style issue but I have a real problem with his style.  <br />If you don't mind  having a story told to you as if the 2 central characters are having an out  of body experience then it's ok.  The female and male characters seem  devoid of emotion.  At first I thought it was just the beginning that as  the book continued it would change but day to day living experiences to  life altering decisions about giving up money and security are both equally  described in the same lack luster manner.  I ended up not caring that the  two characters decided they were in love and wanted to live the rest of  their lives together.  By that time I was yawning so much it was a 'so  what.'<br />Oh yeah,  I didn't get any particular message out of the book  either.  I will give you the only one I could scrounge up and that was you  should just follow your heart.	2000-05-15
US	52914183	R1U40SNRWRRGFX	0931432723	381934294	The Instant Millionaire: A Tale of Wisdom and Wealth	Books	4	6	8	N	Y	Great Advice and Simple Too	You definitely will not find your eyes glazing over with a bunch of psycho, spiritual mumbo jumbo with this book.  It's entertaining and told in a straight forward and simple manner.  It's a story.  The large print is  easy on the eyes and it's just long enough to hold your attention.<br />Most  of the concepts conveyed in the book that take on a spiritual nature are  towards the end and they aren't complex theories.  They are straight  forward things for any one to do.  I like that.  The author is very direct.   Do these simple steps and you will be a millionaire.  I am not a  millionaire, at least not yet anyway.  But I do know that I will definitely  be there and soon.  <br />I also want to give the author credit because he  addresses the problem I had that I suspect a whole lot of other people  have.  You don't know what it is you want to do, even if you could.  I  always viewed half my problem with earning money to be the fact that I  didn't have a goal cause I didn't know what I wanted to do.  Well the  author addresses this problem in a wonderful way.  Take heed and all you  want shall be yours.	2000-05-15
US	52914183	R3SJFV9NLR9WJI	0380807971	928279505	Foods That Cause You to Lose Weight:: The Negative Calorie Effect	Books	2	75	108	N	Y	Become a vegetarian and save yourself the trouble of buying	this book.  I don't understand the other reviewers, it's as if we received two different books.  I am well read on food combining, fasting, vegetarianism, etc. and found this book to be one of the worst.  Negative  calories is a plausible concept but don't look to this book to really help  you.  You'll feel ripped off just by thumbing through the book.  Just eat  your veggies and cut out all that red meat and you'll do wonders for  yourself.	2000-05-15
US	52914183	R3V7UBC6MRA1V	0966517105	600470425	The Black Woman's Guide to Beautiful, Healthier Hair in 6 Weeks!	Books	3	81	81	N	Y	Great for the Relaxed Hair Person....	I found this book extemely easy to follow and full of what turns out, in retrospect, to be common sense.  It's always easy to say &quot;I knew that&quot; when someone else has taken the time to organize and present the material for you.  However unfair that's what you start thinking as you go  through the book.  Yes, I have been told a million times that heat is not  good for your hair.  The author stresses this as well but does give some  great alternatives to applying heat and still looking presentable.   Unfortunately if you are on the go/busy a lot this book will be hard for  you to do although with some thought you can manage to get by on some of  the steps.  While the author does go through some pains to mention specific  products (something woefully lacking in most hair care books) you can tell  it is somewhat dated.  Unfortunately the book was written 2 years ago and a  lot of new products are out there.  So take the time to read what the  author is saying a particular product will do for you and look for your own  brand that achieves the same results.  There is an excellent index in the  back of the book of all the recommended products.<br />The only major drawback  to this book has to do with those of us with NATURAL/CHEMICAL FREE HAIR.   While she does make reference to natural hair care in particular sections  this book is basically for the black woman with chemically treated hair.   All too often she forgets about the differences and the fact that you just  can't use the same technique on relaxed and natural hair.	2000-04-19
US	52914183	R3GQP1NR3X0CJY	096714910X	118216350	Healthy Hair Care Tips For Today's Black Woman	Books	1	11	15	N	Y	SMALL, SKINNY VOLUME without much to SAY.....	I was sincerely disappointed in Ms. Moss' book.  Given the other reviews and the write up I thought this is it.  Wrong!  This is not even close.  [...]  Most everything she said is  common sense.  No real technique tips or product specific tips were  provided.  Although if you are currently sporting a relaxer this book may  give you more insight as to why you have problems but trust me....  there  are other better books on the market that will give you the same info plus  more.  There are a lot of pictures of the author posing in various styles  [...]  Don't waste your money.	2000-04-06
US	52914183	R4X0J83I1IAP6	0939183021	674786002	Let's Talk Hair: Every Black Woman's Personal Consultation for Healthy Growing Hair	Books	4	104	106	N	Y	A Must Read for the Beginner Natural Hair Wearer	I found this book very very informative on the basics of natural hair care.  This effort by Ms. Ferrell and the book entitled No Lye both gave me  the confidence a year ago to stop the chemicals.  I started my search for  information on how to get from under the chemical umbrella and discovered  this book here on Amazon.com.<br />I opted to use braids to grow out my  chemical hair just because I knew I could not handle a teeney weeney afro,  that's just not me.  Well a year has gone by and I have a head full of  natural hair and it's not scary at all.  Trust me I had some bad moments  the first time I had to take out my braids but have since come to see what  Ms. Ferrell meant about the texture of your hair changing as it comes out  from under the influence of the chemicals.  My primary reason for going  natural has nothing to do with Black pride, sorry to say.  I had way more  selfish reasons.  I was worried about my health.  Over the last few years I  had undergone an intense learning period of understanding about the foods  we eat or don't eat and the functions of the various organs of the body.  When I realized the absorption capabilities of our skin I grew quite  concerned.  The skin is powerful and very good at one of it's jobs which is  to absorb.  I came to the conclusion that I should not have anything put on  my scalp wherein my stylist had to wear gloves.  If it was too dangerous  for her hands it was too dangerous for me.  Ms. Ferrell touches on this  very topic and it was gratifying to see others express this  concern.<br />After having said all of this I have to admit I was still  nervous the other day as I sat in the chair to get my first set of twist.  Hallelujah....  I have been set free.  It is so hard to describe the  feeling of wearing my hair a la natural.  I do believe this is easy enough  with straight twisting to do it on my own soon enough but..... I am lazy  and just like other people's hands in my head.<br />So whatever your reasons  for wanting to go natural this book is great.  I have to agree with another  reviewer and put in a request for more styles in the next book but this is  excellent for those just starting out.wanting to go natural this book is great.  I have to agree with another  reviewer and put in a request for more styles in the next book but this is  excellent for those just starting out.	2000-03-16
US	52914183	R3FH4G4EERTXRM	0786706023	504192135	The Flesh Constrained	Books	3	2	2	N	Y	Medieval plot with lots of sex, gore and bad guys.....	I actually didn't find this boring which is why it got 3 stars.  I have to admit it.  I got the book because I thought it would be sexually graphic.  What can I say.  I bought it because I was traveling and you need something  to keep you entertained in an airport.  Well it did.  It won't win any  literary prizes but it had a story line, well developed characters and  plenty of sex.  All kinds of sex so it should please anybody.  Only at the  end did it seem like the author got a little rushed and the lead female's  sudden attraction to another female character is never fully written out  and so you are left feeling confused because her actions make no sense.   But all in all it was entertaining.	2000-02-15
US	52914183	R3MWM1Y7H8VWA0	0914532421	582150542	Fasting Can Save Your Life	Books	3	38	59	N	N	Very Informative but again there is much fingerpointing....	I found most of this book very very informative and full of common sense.  I did, however, have a problem with the attitude that my way is the only way.  He turns his nose up at those that recommend juice when conducting a  fast.  He even goes so far as to belittle them in that they must not know  what they are talking about because to say you are on a juice fast means  you are abstaining from juice.  All well and good but he doesn't have much  scientific proof for some of his major claims.  A lot of his claims as to  why one should try one method over another is based on observations that  since some animals do it that way, why shouldn't we.  I truly believe in  fasting.  It has done wonders for me.  I have taken the water fast and the  juice fast.  I have to admit that on either one I never experienced hunger.   I did however feel a little weak on the water fast on the 3rd day.  I  experienced more of the tongue having a bad taste on the juice fast.  In  theory the juice fast was said to help you do a better job of  detoxification.  I lost the same amount of weight on both types.  So from  my point of view they both work.  It depends on your goals.  I just don't  like close minded people and Herbert definitely came across as one of  those.  Maybe he got picked on a lot when first getting into this but  geez.... lighten up.	1999-08-27
US	52914183	RA3N69XR9E1A9	1561703478	378741521	The Abundance Book	Books	2	12	46	N	Y	Small, compact and definitely the same old message.	At first I started out reading this book as if the holy word were contained therein.  Given the glowing reviews one could hardly fault me.  But this is an old, old, old message that I for one, have heard all my  life.  In fact if you even went to church a teeny tiny little bit you know  this message.I don't have a problem with what John has to say but I do have  a problem with how ambiguous the message can be.  If you succeed well good  you must have followed the message of the book.  If you fail then you must  have thought too hard about money, or you let your fear of money stray into  your thoughts or heaven forbid you actually thought you made that money  yourself instead of our almighty maker (don't let the fact that you have a  job cloud your thoughts about that one).My mother is quite religious and  follows these same religious practices.  She meditates, she follows the  rules and I still have to support her.  Guess she just let too much fear  get into her thoughts huh John.... why else isn't she rolling in the green  stuff.	1999-08-24
US	52914183	R1W0LS5KEZHWDA	0767902351	292115368	Going to Pieces without Falling Apart: A Buddhist Perspective on Wholeness	Books	2	23	55	N	Y	I don't understand the other reviews... but then again	maybe this whole Zen thing is just too deep for me.  I am a straight forward kind of person and thought that this book was going to be along the same lines but alas it was not to be.  I knew I was in trouble when the  first chapter kept talking about 'feeling empty'.  How the author took a  survey in his high school and everyone said they had felt empty at some  point except for the football captain and he wasn't considered too bright.  Geez... talk about all my warning flags going off.  I don't think I have  ever felt particularly empty so to speak.  Maybe he means something else  that eluded me but I always kind of considered myself of average  intelligence and with a natural curiosity.  But I guess the dumb jock and I  have more in common than I thought.I do understand the general message and  believe that his anectdotal stories are quite good.  Hence the 2 star  rating but....  the rest of this stuff is useless to an average kind of  person like myself.  Next time I don't think I will pick up a book that was  written by a therapist.... he can't seem to leave his day job out of it.	1999-08-24
US	52914183	R122INVIBO9CQE	1563336766	7816660	The Companion	Books	2	7	8	N	Y	WHACK... WHACK... WHACK... WHACK... if you like lots and lots of	spankings then this is the book for you.  I didn't realize so much of the entire book was dedicated to the blow by blow descriptions of so many spankings.  I will give it high marks for at least having an entertaining  plot but it lacked depth, realism and true character development.  But then  again do any of these books really ever do that.  No wonder Ann Rice is so  appreciated.	1999-07-01
US	52914183	R1OQMG53EQJ5E0	0803893825	662244867	Fasting-The Ultimate Diet	Books	4	26	27	N	N	Quick, fun and full of interesting info.....	and you get two in one.  There are actually two fasting books included and while they are basically saying the same things they do cover some different areas and vary only slightly in the diet you should practice as  you come off the fast.  If I have a complaint or minor want, it would be  that the examples are not divided into categories of men and women.  Men  and women are going to feel very different when going on a fast as well as  I would have liked categories for people who are overweight and those who  are not.  As it is you have to read anectdotal info to glean any info for  the category for which you fit.After having said that it allowed me to try  my first two day fast.  When I realized that going off the fast is like a  fast in its self (no solid food) I decided as a novice that I could handle  two days of water and two days of diluted juice for a total of 4 days  without solids.  It wasn't easy but it wasn't hard either.  I didn't go  crazy from hunger, get cramps or any such nonsense but sometimes during the  day I would get a dull ache which was uncomfortable.  I would take extra  water at that time and it would slowly go away.  I lost 5 pounds the first  2 days which is nothing to sneeze at.  I continued with my yoga and other  exercises and never felt light headed or weak.  In fact the one point in  the book that I especially agree with is that I feel empowered and in  control.  It's a nice feeling to know you can do something of this nature.   Now that I have tested the waters....  I am going to plan a longer fast  later this summer.	1999-06-29
