US	52920909	R2KGNLWMCO1P8M	0060575557	72383166	Buying a Fishing Rod for My Grandfather: Stories	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Emotional Kaleidoscope	This book contains six beautifully crafted short stories built on ordinary events. Crafted more to evoke emotions than tell a tale, these stories range in style from sparse dialogue to rich description of detail.  <br /> <br />The dream-like imagery in the last two stories, \\"Buying a Fishing Rod for My Grandfather\\" and \\"In an Instant\\", carries you along in a hypnotic stream. \\"The Temple\\" starts as a charming journey into the country with newlyweds and slowly turns melancholy. \\"In the Park\\" takes place almost entirely in dialogue that is surprisingly effective at conveying nervous regret. \\"The Cramp\\" skillfully turns danger into triumph into insignificance. \\"The Accident\\" is a masterful demonstration of how a tragic death is a mosaic of different events based on point-of-view. <br /> <br />The stories are different in style, but the same themes can be seen running through each: memory, change, loss, and family. These short stories are not going to be everyone's cup of tea - if you need a plot, this isn't for you. But if you appreciate beautiful use of language to paint a picture, you'll probably savor this small collection. The translation seems very unobtrusive - you never get jarring feelings of disconnect from the language.	2005-06-10
US	52920909	RE4HEQZK6CCP2	0060582642	720076975	The Queen Jade: A Novel (Red Lion)	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Jungle Adventure	Lola likes her quiet life as owner of a bookstore. But when her adventuresome archeologist mother disappears in the jungle during a hurricane, Lola is quick to pack up and fly to Guatemala. She enlists Erik, one of her mother's rival colleagues, to help track down clues to her mother's quarry, the Queen Jade. If they can find the mythical artifact, maybe they will find her mother.  <br /> <br />Upon arrival, the group grows with the addition of a reluctant guide, Yolanda, who is bitterly resentful of her broken friendship with Lola. Lola's father, who has a dread phobia of the jungle since being trapped in quicksand, decides that love is stronger than fear and joins the search as well. To decode their path, they struggle with historical accounts of past searches and puzzling Mayan pictographs. Will they solve the mystery and avoid the dangers of the jungle? <br /> <br />Murray definitely makes the jungle feel real and immediate; you can almost feel the sweat dripping and see the vibrant colors. Her characters are sympathetic and complex, and she balances the plot between action, scholarship, and relationships. My only complaints are that the romance feels a bit unreal at first, and her complex web of inter-relations too closely resembles a soap opera at times. In spite of that, The Queen Jade is compelling and I think Murray's pacing and plot twists were excellent.	2005-05-12
US	52920909	R2W7K2KWEP9SQZ	0060585609	336709029	Torpedo Juice: A Novel (Serge Storms)	Books	3	7	7	N	N	Serge storms the Keys	Serge Storms, Florida history buff and eccentric sower of mayhem and violence, takes on the Florida Keys with a decidedly different search for a wife. His tactics generate pepper spray more often that first dates, but he perseveres until he gets an \\"I do.\\" <br /> <br />But Serge finds a lot of things about marriage mystifying, especially guest towels. Between organizing a cult, rushing his junkie friend Coleman to the emergency room, foiling the plans of a slimy CEO, and dodging the attentions of a serial killer, Serge doesn't have much time to work out the details of marital bliss. <br /> <br />This book was a slow-starter for me - it took a while to build up interest in the multitude of plot lines. However, once Serge starts driving the action, the pace picks up to Dorsey's usual zany blur. Serge's thoughts on marriage are funny enough to smooth over some of the rough patches.  <br /> <br />The disparate plots come together in the end, but not quite as convincingly as they have in past books. But Dorsey's beloved Florida shines through, and he is still adept at finding humor in the most amazingly dark spaces of the human psyche.	2005-03-22
US	52920909	R1PHMSI02HODQE	0886778697	881068875	The Faded Sun Trilogy: Kesrith, Shon'jir, and Kutath	Books	4	38	38	N	N	Honor and Adaptablility	The mri are a proud warrior race; mercenaries for the regul for thousands of years. But when the regul went to war with humans, the mri lost. Now the regul have ceded the mri homeworld to the humans. With the mri numbers dangerously depleted, and humans coming to claim the planet Kesrith, they are left facing a dire situation. Two surviving mri, Niun and Melein, are thrown into a very unlikely, and very uneasy, association with a human soldier, Duncan. Together the three of them embark on a quest to explore the origins of the nomadic mri in hopes of saving the species from the regul and humans both. <br /> <br />Cherryh does an excellent job of creating aliens that don't act too \\"human\\" and function logically within the framework she constructs for them. The characters are definitely the highlight of this book - their motivations, feelings, and relationships are explored in depth. This makes for fairly slow pacing, especially in the beginning when the scene is being set. But there is enough action and political intrigue to keep things interesting and the pace picks up after the first third. Cherryh has several books where characters seem to endlessly toil through a desert setting, and this is definitely one of them. But if you make it through the slow set-up and occasional repetitiveness, it's a thought-provoking and compelling book. One of the main themes showcases human adaptability in the face of alien thought patterns. <br /> <br />The three books contained in the Faded Sun Trilogy (Kesrith, Shon'jir, and Kutath) were originally published in the late 70s. They don't feel dated, and it's nice to have them all in one book, because I don't think they'd be good as stand-alone reading. Taken together, the trilogy is much stronger than the individual books.	2005-02-17
US	52920909	R330HXRQC9KDP2	0440225108	7077895	The Plague Tales	Books	2	9	14	N	N	I wanted to like this, but...	In the future, antibiotics have become mostly useless and large portions of the population are dead from outbreaks of disease. Janie Crow, a surgeon who is retraining to be a forensic pathologist, is on a research trip in England. One of her soil samples turns up a deadly surprise that sends events spiraling out of control. Janie quickly finds herself running from the all-powerful Bio-cops with the help her old friend Bruce. <br /> <br />In the past, physician Alejandro Canches is dealing with the dangers of the Black Plague in the 14th century as well as the peril of being a hidden Jew moving in a Christian world. Both Alejandro and Janie find romance in the midst of disaster, but will they each find a cure for the plague? <br /> <br />This book has a lot of interesting concepts, and I wanted to like it. However, in the end, I just wanted to be done with it. Most of the characters are one-dimensional, and they all make frustratingly irrational choices. The introduction of a mystical element halfway through jars with the science-feel of the rest of the book. The ending is tacked on out of nowhere - I actually had to check to make sure I hadn't accidentally skipped any pages. <br /> <br />The chapters alternate between the two stories, and this works fairly well, but there is a tenuous connection between the two at best. Both plots rely heavily on the reader's suspension of disbelief - in the end the coincidences that drive the plot twists are painfully obvious and approach the absurd. Alejandro's story is more logically consistent than Janie's story, and Alejandro is an interesting and sympathetic character. Regrettably, I had a very hard time sympathizing with any character in Janie's tale.	2005-01-27
US	52920909	R3SUWGZSOFSXJO	0451208722	645901859	Family Resemblance (Nal Accent Novels)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Touching Portrait of Family Ties	Nita is trying to pull her life back together after divorce, while also caring for her father who she just moved to a nearby nursing home after a devastating stroke. Her parents never encouraged much interest in their past in Guatemala. So when Nita finds a mysterious letter from her aunt, whom she thought was long dead, her curiosity springs to life.  <br /> <br />With the help of some old friends and a new friend, Juno, she uncovers some of her family's heritage and even more family secrets. She finds comfort in her needlework and in her job as a therapist, but will her fragile new relationship with Juno survive the turmoil of an unexpectedly dramatic history coupled with her father's illness? <br /> <br />Barrientos does an excellent job creating complex characters and interactions. I really cared about the people in Family Resemblance and laughed and cried with them. This is a touching story about love, loss, and relationships. I really liked Nita's strong character and the way the author delves into her heritage without dealing in stereotypes. Universal themes of dealing with grief, the importance of family ties and lifelong friendships, and the insecurities of new love all make this book easy to relate to.	2005-01-10
US	52920909	R1QQ0AS8IMZ84P	0743477197	85921457	Finding the Right Words: Perfect Phrases to Personalize Your Greeting Cards	Books	3	69	69	N	Y	Nice Collection of Phrases, But...	This (very) little book contains ideas for personalizing cards for 30 occasions. The categories run the gamut from frequent occasions such as birthdays or thank you notes, to the rarer events like retirements and new homes. Each occasion has a page or two of short sentences to help you express your sentiments.<br /><br />This book will not really help you write longer notes, or letters; but it is perfect for adding something personal to a ready-made greeting card. The last 40 or so pages are devoted to space for you to keep track of birthdays, anniversaries and Christmas/ Hanukkah/ Kwanzaa card lists. Without those pages, this would be more of a pamphlet than a book. I would have preferred more content instead of space for lists that I keep on my computer.<br /><br />I like the idea of customizing greeting cards, and I'm sure I'll use the phrases in this book to jump-start my notes. However, if I had leafed through it in a store, I'm not sure I would have bought it.	2004-12-22
US	52920909	R2V3PVBMLC5NON	0060523875	870846652	The System of the World (The Baroque Cycle, Vol. 3)	Books	5	60	63	N	Y	Word Alchemy	In 1714, Daniel Waterhouse finishes his long trip from America to England. He is prepared to mediate a vicious argument between Newton and Leibniz about who invented calculus first. But he is quickly caught up in diverse adventures: building a logic mill, sleuthing out a bomb maker, playing shell games with gold, and planning jailbreaks. Jack Shaftoe pops in here and there sowing mayhem and counterfeit coins. Eliza, the Countess de la Zeur by way of being \\"Good with Money\\", continues her behind-the-scenes royal intrigues and her efforts to end slavery.  <br /> <br />Conflicts galore weave together into a complex tapestry: the power struggle between the Whigs and the Tories, the battle between Newton the Minter and Jack the Coiner, the feuding calculus inventors, and the clash between alchemy and science. In the end it all boils down to this: will the new system of the world be based on free markets and science? Or feudalism and alchemy? <br /> <br />The third and final book in the Baroque Cycle is just as weighty as the first two. It features a quick synopsis of Quicksilver and The Confusion for those who need a refresher. Even with the summary, I wouldn't advise starting with the third book. Each of the books in the series has its own character. Quicksilver was all about set-up, so while it was rich in detail and characters, it could be slow and a bit disjointed at times. The Confusion was full of madcap adventures and the pieces just flew around the board. The System of the World wraps all of the previous threads together, and strikes a nice balance between philosophy, intrigue, and action. <br /> <br />Stephenson keeps up the expected torrent of words, but as with the other two books, he keeps your attention with an iron fist of plot in a velvet glove of delightful prose. Stephenson manages to seamlessly combine serious discussions, obscure trivia, and profound silliness. As a reader, you have to pay the same attention to all, because you never know what small detail the plot is going to hang on next.  <br /> <br />Daniel Waterhouse is the driving character for most of this book. If you loved The Confusion because it centered on Jack and Eliza, you might be disappointed in the smaller roles they play in the third book. But if you can get past that disappointment, you will find that Daniel has evolved into a more interesting and active character than he was in Quicksilver. <br /> <br />The Baroque Cycle requires a substantial investment of time and attention, but it is well worth the effort. The System of the World is a satisfying end to a great series. With Stephenson, as in life, the journey is more important than the destination, and he definitely gives you a lot of journey in the 3000-or-so page trilogy.	2004-12-21
US	52920909	R1C7THLYM9P75P	0060013133	123160839	Going Postal: A Novel of Discworld	Books	5	1	1	N	N	The Most Fun You'll Have at a Post Office	Moist van Lipwig is very surprised to wake up from his hanging to an assignment as postmaster to the dilapidated Ankh-Morpork postal service. Lord Vetinari has given the con-man a second chance, and the perfect parole officer - a golem who will never be distracted and will never sleep. But the post office is buried in undelivered mail and staffed by an ancient \\"junior\\" postman and a young pin-collecting fanatic. <br /> <br />Moist puts his scamming skills to good use in reviving the post office in the hopes that real progress will follow if he gets the look just right. But a hint of success brings the ire of the dastardly head of the Grand Trunk clacks company, Reacher Gilt. This telegraph-like service was victim to a hostile takeover and is being run into the ground by greedy moguls. The competition between the clacks and the mail turns into a battle of wits and publicity between the two con-men, Moist and Reacher. <br /> <br />Thanks to a flashy gold suit and some inside information, Moist certainly seems to be on top of the battle. But will he prevail in a seemingly impossible race to be the first to deliver a message thousands of miles away? And more importantly, will he win the affection of the chain-smoking, crossbow-totting, golem-rights activist Adora Dearheart? <br /> <br />Pratchett effectively skewers corporate greed and technology without driving his points down your throat. He excels at using humor and fantasy to shine a light on the underlying ridiculousness of modern-day life. Fans of the series will love the cameos of established characters, while also enjoying getting to know the new players in Ankh-Morpork. New readers may miss some of the Discworld insider jokes, but will find this to be stand-alone enough to enjoy. Pratchett has used the fish-out-of-water redemption plot before, and uses it again here with great success.	2004-11-13
US	52920909	R195GC9WLE8KTP	006095485X	494973563	Set This House in Order: A Romance of Souls	Books	5	23	25	N	Y	A Unique Journey of "Self-Discovery"	Andrew is the personality in charge of \\"driving\\" the soul-ridden body of Andy Gage. Born from the ashes of Andy Gage's mind, the society of multiple personalities live in a stable arrangement together thanks to a helpful therapist. Andrew is a recently born personality trying to give the body a fairly normal life, starting with a new job at a software company. But Andrew's stability is threatened when his impulsive boss, Julie, hires Penny, another victim of multiple personality disorder. Julie wants Andrew to help Penny tame the chaos in her head. Penny doesn't understand her condition, but some of her other personalities do. Andrew is reluctant to get involved, but Penny's group of protective personas make a plea for help. When his own house of souls collapses under the strain of several shocks, Andrew and Penny end up on a road-trip to confront the past. <br /> <br />This is one of the best fiction books I've read this year. Ruff's handling of the multiple personalities is both inventive and sensitive. He is straightforward in dealing with the abuse that led to Andrew and Penny's fractured state - it's clearly important, but not sensationalized. In spite of the serious subject matter, Ruff manages to incorporate a good measure of humor into the story. Andrew's journey gives a whole new meaning to \\"finding yourself.\\" Ruff's excellent characterizations make it easy to root for Andrew, Penny, and their collective internal societies. <br /> <br />I like that Ruff avoids the trap of a cliched, sappy ending, instead making it clear that there are no easy solutions. Ruff's plot was engrossing in all its twists and turns, and only one late section seemed to jump a bit off the tracks. This is a compelling book that will entertain you even as it makes you think about how we all interact with the world.	2004-11-09
US	52920909	R16TK57JX3OSR0	0385722168	211011926	In the Beginning: The Story of the King James Bible and How It Changed a Nation, a Language, and a Culture	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Illuminating Window of History	McGrath provides a broad overview of how the King James Bible came to exist and how it affected language and culture. He spends a lot of time setting the scene - the King James translation doesn't really make an appearance until halfway through the book. McGrath starts at the beginning with the printing press and the legitimization of the English language and then works his way through the first vernacular translations and the religious/political tumult of the Reformation. <br /> <br />McGrath expertly shows how religion and politics intertwined to spawn the King James translation. He also clearly lays out the challenges faced by the translation team. But I thought his efforts to show how the KJV impacted culture and nations were less effective. He does have some good examples of how the careful translation of Hebrew phrases led to many idioms becoming adopted into common use in English - such as \\"sour grapes\\", \\"from time to time\\", and \\"to fall flat on his face.\\" I also found it fascinating that the language of the KJV was considered a bit archaic from the start, and that it was not really accepted as the definitive translation until much, much later. <br /> <br />It's amazing to me that the emphasis on an accurate translation in many cases led to beautifully poetic passages with a minimum of awkward phrasing. While it is clear that the author appreciates the KJV, he also explains quite nicely how new translations will always be needed because of our constantly evolving language.  <br /> <br />This is a clearly written, engaging history - the tone is more conversational than academic. He is a bit repetitive, and uses \\"but we'll talk about that later\\" transitions a few too many times, but these are minor quibbles. The author brings history to life and makes it easy to understand why events played out the way they did. The broad strokes of IN THE BEGINNING should appeal to the casual reader who would like to see a big-picture history of the times that led to a stringof printed Bibles cumulating in the King James Version. It is definitely more readable than the more tightly focused yet rambling GOD'S SECRETARIES by Adam Nicolson, which deals more closely with the personalities directly involved in the project.	2004-10-27
US	52920909	RETG6ZUB7CDH	0066212960	493637212	The Pearl Diver (Massey, Sujata)	Books	4	8	8	N	N	Search for a Missing Pearl	Rei Shimura is living in Washington DC with her fianc Hugh after being forced to leave Tokyo. She feels a little lost and aimless in her new home and isn't excited about planning her wedding, so she's delighted when the opportunity to decorate a new Japanese restaurant drops into her lap. Rei jumps into her work with both feet and things are going well until her cousin Kendall is abducted from the opening dinner. Was it politics, a restaurant rivalry, or something even more sinister?  <br /> <br />While the police are investigating the kidnapping, the restaurant's snooty hostess asks Rei to investigate the decades-old disappearance of her Japanese war-bride mother. Andrea reached out to her because they are both half-Japanese, and Rei feels obligated to help. Just as they launch their plan to get more information from Andrea's father, Rei's Aunt Norie shows up from Japan to plan her wedding. Norie soon gets pulled into the missing-mother mystery. When Rei's investigations into the past turn dangerous in the present, it threatens to ruin her relationship with Hugh.  <br /> <br />This is Massey's seventh Rei Shimura book, and although most of the others have taken place in Japan, Rei is no stranger to America.  This can easily be read stand-alone, but it might be helpful to start earlier in the series to get a better feel for the relationship between Rei and Hugh.  <br /> <br />Massey is very good at drawing tension from the conflict between Japanese traditionalism and American individualism and independence.  On the one hand, Rei obviously finds it hard to say no to people and is horrified that Norie might find out about her living arrangements with Hugh.  But at the same time she is reluctant to take on the role of a wife and wants to be in full control of her own destiny.  Rei's turmoil about her future unfolds against the hectic whirlwind of restaurant crises and her investigations for Andrea. In a couple of places there was so much happening at once, it almost felt like I needed to catch my breath while reading. <br /> <br />Rei, Hugh and Norie are likeable and interesting characters, and Andrea became more sympathetic as events unfolded.  However, I didn't like that most of the other characters with significant roles ranged from slightly unpleasant to over-the-top obnoxious. Still, it was an absorbing story, and I like Massey's insight into culture clash.	2004-10-26
US	52920909	R1Q4LAZ4A1R54L	0451458885	324001107	The Disappeared: A Retrieval Artist Novel	Books	4	13	13	N	N	What is Justice?	Humans have expanded into space, but dealing with their alien neighbors has taken a lot of negotiation. Alien justice is harsh, but humans agree to abide by their laws and punishments for the sake of trade. The Rev have brutal work camps, the Wygnin take children to pay for the crimes of their parents, and the Ditsy have gruesome vengeance killings. Humans who willingly or unknowingly break an alien law must submit to the sentence or disappear.  <br /> <br />Miles Flint and his partner Noelle DeRicci are detectives on the Moon; within a few short days, they are drawn into three cases of alien justice - an unusually high percentage. One involves a woman, Ekaterina, who is trying to disappear to avoid the Rev; the two others involve people who have been hiding for years. As DeRicci tries to track down Ekaterina, Flint tries to figure out how to avoid turning a baby over to the Wygnin while working to solve the connection between the three cases.  <br /> <br />The Disappeared functions fairly well as a detective partner story with DeRicci as the embittered veteran and Flint as the newly promoted rookie. Plenty of tension is provided through checkered pasts, irritable aliens, uncaring bureaucracy, and the occasionally convenient loss of communications. Rusch deals well with the emotional turmoil involved in having to support alien laws that seem immoral and are quite accurately described as inhumane, especially as the detectives get more involved in the cases. The characters are fairly well drawn - they are all basically decent, real people facing difficult situations and haunted by their pasts. I'd like to know more about the aliens - we're really just introduced to them in this book. I have to wonder if there are any aliens in Rusch's universe that are even-tempered and reasonable by our terms. <br /> <br />This is the first novel in the Retrieval Artist series, and sets up the background and main characters. One of my minor quibbles with The Disappeared is that sometimes it feels like the set-up is more important than the story being told. Also, I found Flint's amazing ability to get secure information out of any computer system he touches to be unrealistic. The Disappeared does succeed in making you think about justice and culture clash - I'll be interested to see where Rusch goes next with these concepts.	2004-10-08
US	52920909	R3EXBJH23TXYPW	1585422207	469421642	Napoleon's Buttons: How 17 Molecules Changed History	Books	5	86	86	N	N	Better Living Through Chemistry	Did tin buttons that crumbled in the cold stop Napoleon's army? Or was it scurvy from lack of vitamin-C? Or lack of antibiotics for the wounded? Throughout history, there have been substances that have changed the world. The authors have chosen 17 types of molecules that have altered the course of nations, societies and cultures. Each chapter centers on one of the molecules, and it's very interesting that many of the molecules are interconnected. <br /> <br />The authors take us on a fascinating journey through history and chemistry - starting with piperine, the stuff that puts the 'hot' in peppers and ending with the molecules that have conquered malaria. Both natural and synthetic substances are studied. The impact of natural substances like salt, caffeine, and olive oil reaches far past daily life and into the fate of nations. The search for synthetic substitutes has led to diverse products such as nylon, artificial sweeteners, the Pill, and Styrofoam. The impacts of several live-saving substances like vitamin-C and antibiotics are explored. Some compounds, such as DDT and Freon, that were originally seen as near-miracles have proven to be rather disastrous to the environment. Napoleon's Buttons explores the consequences for better and for worse, sometimes all in the same substance.  <br /> <br />The book starts with a very friendly overview of chemistry diagrams and terms. The authors provide a multitude of diagrams that show how various substances are similar and different. It's truly amazing how a tiny change in structure can completely alter the properties of a molecule. I think the diagrams are fascinating, but if you're not that interested in the actual chemistry, you can easily ignore them and concentrate on the stories that illustrate the effect of each substance. Le Couteur and Burreson entertain as well as educate with their well-chosen selection of anecdotes. Their writing is very understandable for the casual reader, but includes enough detail to satisfy someone with a stronger background in science. <br /> <br />I don't usually comment on the look of the text, but I thought it was just outstanding in this book. Both the text and the diagrams are exceptionally clean and easy to read. The information is very well organized - it's easy to read each chapter as a self contained unit, but there's enough of a framework tying it all together to make it a coherent whole.	2004-10-08
US	52920909	R3M5BBZ5JKW4UT	0765342618	769723156	Kiln People (The Kiln Books)	Books	3	6	6	N	N	Am I Real or Am I Memorex?	Imagine a world where you can make copies of yourself for the day - to shop, to run errands, to go to school. At the end of the day, you can upload memories from your dittos. Private detective Albert Morris lives in this world - sending out copies to do legwork, to sit in long stakeouts, and to meet with clients. When Albert is asked to investigate the disappearance of the inventor of the ditto technology, the mysteries start piling up and the action gets fast and furious. Will Morris and his dittos be able to prevent dueling madmen from taking new copying technology a step too far? <br /> <br />Brin explores a fascinating premise and has put a lot of thought into the details. How would dittos be used and abused? What would the different protests be? What massive changes would society go through? Just how would someone deal with knowing they're the disposable copy? Brin really makes you think about the consequences of the technology. Despite the heavy topics, but Brin keeps the tone light with puns and humor mixed with the ambiance of a hardboiled detective novel. Sometimes it works, and sometimes the effect is a bit jarring.  <br /> <br />The best part was watching all the different Alberts diverge with different experiences as they worked on separate aspects of the mystery. It was fun following the antics of Morris and his dittos, but the plot suffers along the way. It spirals into an over-the-top metaphysical knot that feels disconnected from the rest of the book. Since the book had a noir-like feel, I think it would have been better to have an ending scaled to that instead of reaching for grand, mystic insights. Still a good book with thought-provoking concepts, but it could have been better.	2004-10-05
US	52920909	R1NT3EB7SQFE8A	0765302462	135115670	Heresy: A Catherine LeVendeur Mystery	Books	3	5	5	N	N	Excellent history, OK Mystery	Twelfth century Paris is keenly feeling financial woes brought on by the Crusade. Catherine's husband Edgar must personally go to Spain for new trade goods, so Catherine leaves Paris with their children and household to stay at the abbey of her friend and mentor Heloise. But it's not destined to be a simple journey - even as she makes travel plans, Heloise's son Astrolabe shows up on the doorstep, in danger of being accused of heresy and murder. Astrolabe travels with them in disguise to reach his mother. Then at Heloise's request, they travel on to Reims where the pope, bishops, and a horde of other religious and secular leaders are convening for a council. Here Catherine and her sister-in-law Margaret must search for the truth and defend Astrolabe's innocence before he ends up facing the judgment of the Council.  <br /> <br />This is the eighth book in the Catherine series, and there is so much history and character development along the way that new readers will probably want to start at the beginning (Death Comes as Epiphany) to get the most out of the series. As usual with Newman, the reader is immersed into historical details that make 12th century France come alive. It has a very genuine feel and characters stay consistent with the time period. Newman is at her best with characterization and showing the issues of the times - moral, political, and religious. The consequences of heresies of different flavors and degrees are woven throughout the book. This probably sounds fairly heavy, but Newman manages to balance it pretty well with both the mystery at hand and with scenes from daily life.  Catherine continues to be a delightful and strong heroine, and I like the way her personality is still evolving as motherhood and other influences come into play. <br /> <br />Newman must be given full credit for maintaining originality - she hasn't fallen into the trap of reusing the same plot as with many running mystery series. However, Heresy is not Newman's strongest book. The writing is smooth and the plot flows along nicely, but the mystery seemed second to the rest of it and not as compelling as earlier entries in the series. One issue is that Edgar and Solomon (key players in many of the earlier books) are gone on their trading trip for most of the book. Without the richly drawn relationship between Edgar and Catherine, the middle of the book feels flat at times. Margaret's distress at her impending arranged marriage and the peril of Catherine's pregnancy don't really provide enough tension to carry the book when the main mystery fizzles. Read this more for the history than the mystery.	2004-09-17
US	52920909	R3RARGKL8RZLYX	0743257731	437916513	1215: The Year of Magna Carta	Books	5	6	7	N	N	The Magna Carta in Context	Ironically, the Magna Carta was a failed bit when first signed by King John in 1215. It truly came into prominence in 1225, and its importance grew with the passing years. It has now long been considered a landmark in the evolution of individual rights and freedoms. Danziger and Gillingham present a sweeping overview of the changes in culture, politics, and religion that led to the creation of this important document. They set the stage for understanding the purpose and meaning of the Magna Carta in the time of its origin. The full text of this significant charter is included at the end of the book.  <br /> <br />The authors do a great job of presenting the chain of events leading up to the rebellion against King John. Land rights for the rich were clearly center stage during the writing of the Magna Carta. But because this was a new kind of rebellion (one without an alternative king to sponsor), the barons found it necessary to add the clauses protecting the rights of all men so they could feel justified in their rebellion.  <br /> <br />The descriptions of everyday life for the rich and poor highlight the issues that the Magna Carta was meant to address. The actual clauses in the charter come alive when presented in context.  Understanding the era is key, such as knowing why so much of England was designated as \\"forest\\" land, whether or not it actually contained a real forest. The authors also debunk a few common myths about the times such as the idea that people thought the world was flat.  <br /> <br />Full of fun, interesting facts about life around the 1200s, none of the information will be new for students of the era. However, the book succeeds marvelously as a popular history. This is a relatively small and easily digestible book. The writing is clear and concise. I recommend this captivating portrayal of a fascinating time period to anyone with even a passing interest in history.	2004-09-14
US	52920909	R2O2MB9YU2E8VZ	0066209242	995098883	Becoming a Tiger: How Baby Animals Learn to Live in the Wild	Books	5	9	11	N	N	Entertaining Learning Experience	Almost every living creature has the ability to learn in some form or fashion. Imitation, trial and error, conditioning, play, and observation are just a few of the different types of learning that McCarthy covers through anecdotes and research results. From birds to primates to lowly worms, the methods and reasons that different animals learn what they need to survive proves to be a fascinating topic. Animals clearly have both innate behaviors and learned behaviors and it's very interesting to see where the two intersect. <br /> <br />Becoming a Tiger is broadly broken out into chapters that cover different areas important to survival: knowing your species, what and how to eat, how to get around, how not to be eaten, who makes a good mate, and so forth. It's fairly humbling to find out just how many types of animals use tools, since that used to be a benchmark for human and then primate supremacy. Many of the stories from rehabilitators and field researches are very touching. It's nice that McCarthy tries to stick with research results from non-harmful scientific studies, and when she does reference an older, less-humane study she does so apologetically. <br /> <br />McCarthy's sense of humor shines through in wry asides and tongue-in-cheek chapter headings. Her writing style is easy to follow, even when she delves now and then into scientific terminology. While chatty in tone and geared towards the general reader, McCarthy backs up her information with impressive sections of notes and bibliography.  Her passion for the subject shines through and makes this a highly recommended read for anyone interested in learning or animals.	2004-09-13
US	52920909	R1Y8BY4H0EEQA7	0517884046	840590768	Food in History	Books	4	12	13	N	Y	Food for Thought	Food in History is an academic, yet readable, overview of food throughout history.  From prehistoric hunting and gathering to modern day genetically modified crops, Tannahill looks at how food availability, preparation, and consumption have a profound affect on culture and politics. <br /> <br />The book is divided into broad time categories - first thousands of years and then hundreds.  In each section, Tannahill explores food in different broad areas such as the Americas, Europe, Asia, India, Africa, etc.  This is not a cookbook - don't expect historical recipes.  Also keep in mind that it's an overview - don't expect details on the evolution of every single regional cuisine. Food in History is very well researched and comprehensively documented. Tannahill has a pleasant writing style, and just when the material threatens to get a bit too dry, up pops an interesting factoid or anecdote to recapture your interest. <br /> <br />I would recommend this book to anyone interested in how food has helped shape our history.	2004-09-01
US	52920909	RIDV6U06RB6NJ	044101013X	578065247	Angelica	Books	3	2	5	N	N	A Pleasant Enough Return to Samaria	Jovah carried his followers to Samaria hundreds of years ago where they settled into a low-tech life, safe from the wars of their home world. Jovah also created a race of angels to watch over the people of Samaria and sing prayers for weather and plague assistance. Gaaron is about to become the archangel, the leader of the host of angels, and now searches Samaria for the wife Jovah has decreed for him through the oracles. Susannah, one of the Edori nomads, is becoming increasingly unhappy with the wandering eye of her lover Dathan. When Gaaron shows up at her camp and announces that she is his intended bride, she surprises everyone by agreeing to return with him.  <br /> <br />Gaaron has little time for the reluctant Susannah, as the country is plagued with mysterious strangers that appear and disappear without a trace and the unexplained destruction of remote camps and farmsteads. As Gaaron tries to solve the problem of the strangers, the lonely Susannah befriends his recklessly wild sister Miriam. When Miriam is fostered in a distant city after one of her more disastrous exploits, she runs away to the Edori. But once there, she learns life-lessons in spite of herself and begins an unexpected romance.   <br /> <br />This is Shinn's fourth book about Samaria.  Even though this book is a prequel to the first three and can be read alone, you should probably read at least one or two of the earlier books in order to understand the setting. Samaria is a fascinating place and Shinn populates it with interesting characters and cultures. As world-building goes, it reminds me of Anne McCaffrey's Pern - with angels instead of dragons and more of an emphasis on relationships. <br /> <br />Shinn is very good at romance with a touch of science fiction, but this is not her best effort. The slowly developing relationship between Gaaron and Susannah isn't as compelling as it should be - Miriam's journey is far more interesting. The peril posed by the mysterious strangers feels oddly distant and somewhat contrived. After the leisurely character development that takes place in the bulk of the book, I felt short-changed by the quick wrap-up ending which I ultimately couldn't buy into.  <br /> <br />Shinn can and has done much better as far as spark-flying romance and consistent plotting.  Try Archangel or Jovah's Angel for a better introduction to Samaria, but if you just can't get enough of Shinn's angels, read Angelica as well.	2004-09-01
US	52920909	RNCAHNENLXONB	0060586125	54425207	Three Wishes	Books	5	107	110	N	N	Family - Fabulous and Frustrating	Lyn, Cat and Gemma Kettle are approaching their 34th birthday together. These Aussie triplets may share a birthday, but they have their own very different personalities. Gemma floats through life and relationships. Lyn powers her way through her organized and efficient days. The fiercely emotional Cat does battle with co-workers, her husband, and her sisters. In the year surrounding this particular birthday, their lives are thrown upside down by various tragedies and joys and they struggle through as they always have - together.  <br /> <br />This heart-warming and heart-wrenching story is an impressive first book for Moriarty. She captures all the best and worst of family relationships - siblings, parents, spouses, and children - while balancing the heavy parts with funny bits of mayhem and wicked humor. The point of view alternates between the sisters and the story bounces back and forth in time, but never gets confusing. Interspersed between the chapters are little vignettes about how the triplets have touched the lives of strangers throughout the years.  <br /> <br />Moriarty's characters are just quirky enough to really care about without being absurd. I thought the flashbacks to the past did a wonderful job of showing how the sisters evolved into their separate personalities. Three Wishes is a fun, fascinating look into three lives that are inextricably entwined, and an insightful look at family relationships in general.	2004-08-24
US	52920909	R2K7Q6KKBGZPVP	006056668X	380736465	Fluke: Or, I Know Why the Winged Whale Sings (Today Show Book Club #25)	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Very Enjoyable Absurdity	It should just be another day in paradise for Nate, action nerd biologist - researching whale song in Hawaii with his cute, smart-mouthed assistant Amy. But he starts to doubt his sanity when he sees words written on the tail of a whale, and returns to shore only to find that their office has been trashed and their research destroyed. He and his partner Clay, an underwater photographer with strong feelings on loyalty, are baffled - who in the world cares that much about their whale research? Competing researchers with shady morals? Mysterious naval officers engaged in dubious projects? As the strange occurrences and disasters mount everyone pitches in to solve the mystery, including their newest assistant, Kona (a.k.a. Preston Applebaum), a dreadlocked stoner kid with surprising insights and Clay's girlfriend Clair, keeper of the booty and the wooden spoon of doom. In the end, the search for the secret of the whale song will lead to unimaginable locations and surprising revelations.  <br /> <br />Fluke is light, funny and fast-paced - perfect for a day at the beach. The absurdity level rises rapidly and the action escalates into a potential end-of-the-world scenario before plummeting back to just mildly warped reality. The plot is a little weak towards the end, but the memorable characters, sharp dialogue, and all-around zaniness definitely make up for it. Moore doesn't go completely overboard with the \\"save the whales\\" message, but he does include some serious whale info in an appendix. <br /> <br />The humor is very similar in tone to Douglas Adams or Terry Pratchett with more of a scatological bent. This book caused a quite a few giggle-out-loud moments for me as well as a lot of quietly amused moments.  While Fluke is my first Christopher Moore book, it will definitely not be my last.	2004-08-18
US	52920909	R2XTW7DIEGC40P	0596006748	361334704	Dancing Barefoot	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Engaging Style, Universal Themes	Dancing Barefoot contains five touching, autobiographic short stories by Wil Wheaton, author and actor. Four are very short and focus on the magic found in the everyday. The fifth is a longer journey through a Star Trek convention and the memories it invoked.  It ranges from laugh-out-loud funny to surprisingly soul-baring. All of the stories share universal themes of love, family and finding yourself.  <br /> <br />The style is informal, emotional, and very real. You're left with the impression that Wheaton is someone you could hang out with and talk to about anything, and also someone that could make you laugh hard enough to snort beer out your nose. It's easy to finish this short collection in one gulp, and it will leave you wanting more.  Luckily, there is more out there to keep you satisfied - his web log gets updated frequently, and there's a new, longer book: Just a Geek.	2004-08-13
US	52920909	R1UBLAOM23BACR	0756401321	696418912	The Gathering Storm (Crown of Stars, Vol. 5)	Books	4	13	13	N	N	The End Is Near	The land of the elf-like Aoi was cast out from the earth into the aether with powerful spells in the distant past. Now the time for its return is fast approaching, and a cabal of sorcerers is determined to do anything necessary to ensure that the spell is renewed to keep the Aoi away, including controlling King Henry via possession. Prince Sanglant has led his army to the far lands of the griffins and centaurs to find allies with the necessary magic to free his father and confront the cabal led by Skopos Anne. After a long absence (that seemed quite short to her), Sanglant's wife Liath returns from the aether with new knowledge about her magical heritage and a grim determination to stop Anne's disastrous plan. But time grows short, and the political chaos that has descended on Henry's kingdoms makes everything more difficult. Wendar and Varre are falling apart under bickering rivals as he is off pursuing conquests in other lands. This leaves a door open for the lizard-like Eika invasion led by Stronghand - who plans not to raid and plunder, but to rule. Stronghand has a secondary mission as well, one that just might hold the key to surviving the coming cataclysm: to find the much-persecuted Alain now that their strange psychic bond has returned. <br /> <br />THE GATHERING STORM is the fifth volume of the Elliott's wrist-bending Crown of Stars fantasy series. It is not a stand-alone read; new readers will definitely want to start at the beginning with the first book, KING'S DRAGON.  Fans of the series might want to skim through previous books before diving into this one, because there's not much in the way of a recap provided. I'm not a novice at reading long fantasy series, but it had been a year or so since I read the fourth book, CHILD OF FLAME, and I was feeling a little lost among the multitude of story lines.  <br /> <br />This is a fascinatingly complex world, complete with religions, magic systems, and several different races of beings. Elliott could easily write other books set in this world without exhausting its possibilities. In fact, there is so much detail and such a large cast that at times it gets a little overwhelming to keep track of, especially without a character guide. It's also hard to see the significance of some of the minor plot threads and while they might make more sense in the sixth and final book, I found myself getting a little bored with some of them. Elliott has generally done very well in developing complex main characters in this series - both heroes and villains have mixed character traits and motivations. But while a couple of the characters develop and grow in this book, several of the other main characters seem to regress into shallowness.  <br /> <br />Long series tend to get a bit bloated as they progress, and at almost a thousand pages, this is no exception. However, for the most part the plot advances steadily along without bogging down. But after such a long, patient build-up, the climax feels rushed. Still, all in all, I would recommend this imaginative and complex series to fantasy readers who aren't daunted by hefty, multi-volume series.	2004-08-13
US	52920909	R2VDKGFXJ4C7GT	0375706399	151828413	The Book on the Bookshelf	Books	4	12	12	N	N	Got Bookshelves? Ever Think About Them?	I enjoyed this meticulously researched history of the physical design of books, bookshelves and libraries. Petroski follows the evolution of book storage from pigeonholes used to store scrolls to modern space-saving &quot;moveable-aisle&quot; stacks. In the process, he also covers the changes in the physical design of books themselves and the ever-present challenges faced by libraries throughout the ages as more and more books appear on their shelves. An appendix covers a host of possible methods of organizing your personal book collection - this section is easily the most amusing part of the book. <br />  <br /> Petroski includes interesting anecdotes and helpful illustrations to liven up this sometimes dry subject area. While not a gripping book, it definitely succeeds as a thoughtful study full of interesting nuggets of history. It's obvious that obsessive book lovers throughout the ages have put a lot of thought into storing their collections. <br />  <br /> If you're not particularly interested in why books were once shelved spine in, or how library layouts have changed over the years, then this book will probably not hold your interest. Personally, I have fond and vivid memories of libraries, especially the one from my childhood. This book definitely has me looking at libraries in a whole new light - I'll never be able to walk into one again without studying the way it's laid out.	2004-08-06
US	52920909	R31VFBGSDRN3UB	075480240X	734061113	The Soup Bible	Books	5	36	37	N	Y	Soup's On!	The Soup Bible is a wonderful collection of soup recipes divided into six sections: light & refreshing, rich & creamy, warming winter, hearty lunch, one-pot-meals, and special occasion. The variety is excellent, and there are soups from around the world. The front section on making stocks is very helpful as it includes not only the standard vegetable, chicken and meat stocks, but also fish stock and stocks for Chinese and Japanese cooking. <br /> <br />Each recipe comes with beautiful end-result pictures as well as pictures of some of the steps involved. The directions are clear and simple. Many of the recipes come with suggestions for variations and all of the vegetarian selections are marked. Most of the soups use easy-to-find ingredients, but the exceptions often have tips on where to find the unfamiliar items.  <br /> <br />I've tried several of the recipes with no problems and delicious results. One of my personal favorites is the Tomato and Blue Cheese Soup. I'm looking forward to cooking and eating my way through these soups.	2004-08-06
US	52920909	R1FEOZDD7SVAN	067003276X	101578948	One Day the Ice Will Reveal All Its Dead	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Poetic Glimpse Into A Scientific Mind	ONE DAY THE ICE is a poetic, fictionalized biography of early 20th century German scientist Alfred Wegener. As scientists go, Wegener is pretty obscure - I hadn't heard of him before reading this book. Trained in meteorology, Wegener made several grueling trips to arctic Greenland to conduct experiments. However, he did not limit his scientific curiosity to weather. His most important theory was continental drift, which was highly controversial at the time. The compelling need to defend his theory to skeptical geologists led to him leaving his family at age 49 for a final trip to Greenland.  <br /> <br />Early on Dudman uses the analogy of beads on a string to describe memories and it's a very fitting analogy for the flow of the book. Written in first person, Wegener reminisces about his life - moving from one set of memories to another. Dudman captures everyday sweet and bittersweet moments of love, family and deep friendships; the driving force behind a scientific mind; the beautifully bleak and hostile landscape of Greenland; and the horrific chaos of war.   <br /> <br />This is not a standard biography with comprehensive coverage of dates and names, and is also not a scientific discourse on continental drift and other theories. ONE DAY is instead an emotional portrait of a man driven to understand the workings of the world through science. Dudman does an excellent job of setting up the times and Wegener's narrative never rings false. At times I forgot that I was reading fiction because the style was so convincing.  <br /> <br />Not a quick, easy read, but ultimately satisfying. This will mostly appeal to history/science buffs who want to peek into the mind of a early 1900s scientist. <br />	2004-08-04
US	52920909	R3325XRJGBAXGM	0553581597	756452714	Wet Grave (Benjamin January, Book 6)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Beware Hurrican Season	Hesione LeGros's murder as a poor, drunken prostitute is far removed from her younger days as the beautiful, fiery mistress of a pirate captain. The city guard is busy with the death of a white plantation owner, so it is left to Benjamin January to investigate during the grueling summer heat in New Orleans. But January's inquiries quickly take a backseat when disaster strikes closer to home. Soon, Benjamin and his sweetheart Rose are caught up in a tangle of conspiracies - gun running, slave revolt and pirate treasure.  Forced to flee New Orleans, they work to untangle the many mysteries in the surrounding plantations and swamps. <br /> <br />This is the sixth book in Hambly's series about 1830s New Orleans and Benjamin January, well-educated freeman and seeker of justice. Hambly provides enough of a history recap for readers new to the series. The rich descriptions put you directly on the streets of the tarnished jewel that is New Orleans. Hambly is as effective as ever in her depictions of the many colliding cultures, the contrast of the lives of the haves and the have-nots, and the heartbreaking injustices and indignities suffered because of race. <br /> <br />One of the best things about this series is that the characters and relationships continue to grow and change. Benjamin and his friends and family are all complex characters. The villains however, seem to be almost over-the-top evil. The pacing steams along steadily until the climax, which is riotous barrage of action. Hambly does an excellent job of wrapping all of her plot threads together. I have one minor quibble - so many things were wrapped up, I'd be afraid for the series if I didn't know that the next book was already out.	2004-07-28
US	52920909	RVT6FNV9H1BOG	044101173X	769506056	Redemption Ark (Revelation Space)	Books	4	0	0	N	Y	Dark and Glorious Space Opera	The Cojoiners and Demarchists are slugging their way to the conclusion of a long war when the Cojoiners learn of a threat to all humanity. Machines called the Inhibitors are approaching from the dark reaches of space, intent on wiping out space-faring life. The Cojoiners make plans to protect themselves by launching a mission to retrieve a long-lost cache of hellish weapons. But one of their military experts, Clavain, believes that all of humanity deserves to know about the threat. Clavain launches his own operation to retrieve the weapons and is soon in a desperate race against his former allies.         But it's not going to be a simple race - the weapons are being held in the Delta Pavonis system by the damaged ship Nostalgia for Infinity. The dread machines are already there and are in the process of taking apart the entire system. The much-reduced crew of the ship is working on a plan to evacuate the planet before the Inhibitors can complete their work, a plan that includes their own use of the powerful weapons.        Although it's not immediately obvious, Redemption Ark is a sequel to Reynolds's first novel, Revelation Space. A dark space opera with a grand scale and realistic science, the book has an interesting film-noir feel. None of the characters are entirely sympathetic and this future is definitely not a shiny feel-good place. However, it is full of fascinating technology and interesting people. The characterization is fairly good - definitely more than one-dimensional, although sometimes the motivations seem a little off.         Redemption Ark suffers a bit from middle-book malady. While it's action packed and chock full of challenging concepts, the ending is disappointing - it feels rushed, nothing is really resolved, and you?re stuck waiting for the next book. There are also several points where the book builds up to what should be frenzied action sequences and then instead of the actual action, you get a passive recap that throws a wrench into thepacing. However, I do like the universe that Reynolds has created and I'm looking forward to the sequel.	2004-07-20
US	52920909	R23SNGDJIVKSUC	0060525355	427906915	The Canterbury Papers: A Novel of Suspense	Books	5	30	32	N	N	Medieval Adventure	Princess Alais is bored and disillusioned with life in the court of her brother the King of France. When Eleanor of Aquitaine dangles the promise of information that Alais desperately wants, Alais agrees to travel to Canterbury to retrieve a packet of Eleanor's potentially embarrassing letters. Her simple quest turns into something more dangerous as her rooms are ransacked and she is snatched away from the protection of her attendant knights.    How can she gain possession of the elusive letters and why are so many people suddenly interested in her jeweled pendant? Alais has to figure out whom she can trust as her path collides with King John, mysterious monks, and the Knights of Templar. Dangerous secrets about her stormy past with the royal family of England just might hold the key.    You don't have to be an expert on medieval times to appreciate The Canterbury Papers, but Healey thoughtfully includes a brief overview of royal politics of the time and a summary at the end separating the fiction from the facts. The book has a historically accurate feel, and it is obvious that Healey put a lot of time into her settings and characterizations. This charming mystery surprised me - I didn't expect to be as captivated as I was. Alais is a strong character with wit and passion. Healey throws in a charming romance, which does a great job of lightening the tone set by endless court intrigue and family betrayals.	2004-07-01
US	52920909	R3B493A0Z2T5N1	0345461622	197047472	Pandora's Star	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Build it up, smash it apart	The Commonwealth has expanded through the galaxy via a network of planet-anchored wormholes. It's a golden age of man where rejuvenation treatments allow near-immortality, the next planet is just a train ride away, and alien contacts have been friendly. When an astronomer makes a startling discovery about two distant stars, a wormhole driven spacecraft is designed and built in order to investigate the mystery. The intrepid explorers unlock a terrible menace that could tear apart the Commonwealth. As the outside threat looms, a cult called the Guardians of Selfhood fights within the Commonwealth because they believe a sinister, hidden alien has taken over the government.    Pandora's Star definitely contains interesting ideas and careful, complex world building. Hamilton doesn't just trot out cool technologies, but also explores how they might affect society. He takes us on a sprawling journey to dozens of worlds using a large cast of characters. At first, the book feels more like a leisurely travelogue through Hamilton's new universe instead of a novel. Rambling around these planets, ideas, and technologies is a lot of fun, but it can also get a bit tiresome if you can't feel the plot going anywhere. However, Pandora's Star grows more compelling as the multiple plot threads start to merge and the action picks up. Hopefully the pace won't slow down again in the sequel.    I really enjoyed exploring Hamilton's new universe - he has some fascinating concepts and he excels at building up an intricate society and then smashing it apart. I'm looking forward to the next installment of this space opera, but the first book would have benefited from better pacing.	2004-06-30
US	52920909	R3REYIPQ4KMVGS	0553582364	337342267	A Traitor to Memory	Books	2	2	2	N	N	Disappointing Addition to a Great Series	A hit-and-run driver kills Eugenie Davies on a rainy night in London.  Superintendent Webberly has a special interest in the victim and assigns Detective Lynley and Constable Havers to the case.  Their investigation of Eugenie's trauma filled past turns up a wealth of suspects.  Meanwhile, Gideon, violin genius extraordinaire, is struggling to overcome his sudden inability to play by revisiting his childhood memories with a therapist. Gideon's story and the murder investigation are woven together into an explosive collision course.      I'm a fan of George's Lynley/Havers mysteries, so it pains me to say that this one really needed some editing.  At over 1000 rambling pages, it's a long slog to get to an uncharacteristically disjointed ending. George does paint a fascinating portrait of a severely dysfunctional family, but that doesn't make up for unexplained motivations and weak plot elements. One of George's strengths has been getting readers involved in the personal lives of her detectives as well as getting drawn into the mystery at hand.  Unfortunately, Lynley, Havers, and the rest of the usual inhabitants feel more like supporting characters in A Traitor to Memory.      Ultimately, I found this book hard to get into and difficult to finish.  If you're new to Elizabeth George, you might want to start with A Great Deliverance or Payment in Blood.	2004-06-07
US	52920909	R13052MJFQPRWA	0380820218	574423936	The Sundering: Dread Empire's Fall (Dread Empire's Fall Series)	Books	4	16	17	N	N	Solid Space Opera	The Praxis Empire is embroiled in civil war as the Naxid try to take control. Gareth Martinez and Caroline Sula, two human heroes of earlier battles between the Naxid and the loyalists, work together from their respective ships to formulate new battle tactics to face the larger fleets of the rebels. Their relationship grows through these long-distance exchanges and sparks fly when their ships return to Zanshaa, the capitol planet. Will the ambitious Martinez be able to overcome the jealousy and inertia of his superiors and put their innovative plans into action? Will their romance survive Caroline's dark secret?      The Sundering picks up where the first book, The Praxis, ended and the books should be read in sequence. The plot is a well-balanced mix of political maneuvering, exciting combat sequences, and romantic entanglements. This series reminds me of the space operas by Peter Hamilton and Alastair Reynolds with a slightly more manageable cast of characters.     It's refreshing to read well-plotted space battles that pay attention to the laws of physics. The main characters are compelling and definitely have their share of flaws as well as virtues. Martinez is developed more in this book as he struggles to keep his arrogance and hot temper from thwarting his ambitions. Williams' has an easy to read writing style and the series so far has an interesting and not entirely predictable story line.	2004-06-01
US	52920909	R3NEP5OCG6MN2B	0446607177	11618814	Riptide	Books	3	1	2	N	N	Entertaining, but not their best work	Attempts to retrieve the pirate treasure of &quot;Red Ned&quot; Ockham from the Water Pit on Ragged Island have lead to nothing but death and bankruptcy over the years. Malin Hatch who owns the island lost his brother to the booby-trapped Pit in a childhood adventure that went horribly wrong. He has avoided his home in Maine and the dreaded island just offshore for decades. When Captain Neidelman shows up with considerable financial backing and a potential key to the Pit's obstacles, Hatch reluctantly agrees to another attempt to recover the treasure - now worth 2 billion and rumored to include the relic St. Michael's Sword. But the high-tech equipped venture quickly runs into problems and it's not at all certain that they will be able to defeat the 17th century architect of the Pit.      With the exception of the main character, Malin Hatch, most of the characters are one-dimensional cliches and that makes it hard to care about them. Some of the characters turn villainous with no clear explanation of motives or reasons. The plot forges ahead quickly enough to gloss over the weaknesses in characterization. Unfortunately the plot also has several moments of feeling too forced.       The general theme seems to be summed up by the Bible quote: &quot;For the love of money is the root of all evil.&quot; Riptide is entertaining enough if you're looking for a lightweight thriller to read at the beach, but this is not the authors' best work.	2004-05-25
US	52920909	R1DM6WBDOHCKN7	0767908171	997649583	A Short History of Nearly Everything	Books	5	2	3	N	Y	A Travelogue to Science	This book is a travelogue of scientific discoveries and the people responsible for them.  It is not a science textbook; it's an exploration of how we know what we know about the vastness of the universe down to the infinitesimal atoms that everything is made of.  Bryson's chatty style makes this a pleasure to read.  He injects humor into what would otherwise be a dry recitation of facts.  The personalities of the people involved, the odd and interesting factoids, and the exploration of various dead-end theories make the story come alive.      Bryson is not a scientist, and this isn't intended to be a comprehensive, perfect guide to scientific knowledge.  But if this book excites your interest and makes you want to know more about the details, it will have achieved its goal.  Bryson includes a very thorough bibliography for those who want to delve into any particular subject.     One of the major themes in the book is that life itself is rather improbable, and a host of calamities may await the human race.  But the book overall does not have a depressing outlook.  Bryson does a good job of conveying excitement about the marvels contained in the universe and the wonder that can be found in the search for basic truths.	2004-05-24
US	52920909	RWC1TMXDRQZ0Q	0060523867	783016934	The Confusion (The Baroque Cycle, Vol. 2)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Fast Paced Historical Mayhem	The pace picks up considerably in this continuation of the intertwined stories of Jack Shaftoe, Daniel Waterhouse, and Eliza, Countess de la Zeur.  The plot set in motion in Quicksilver continues to twist into fiendishly complex patterns.  Piracy and quests, political and financial intrigue, and the evolution of scientific thought; you'll find all of this and more in the hefty second volume of the Baroque Cycle.  Read Quicksilver first in order to not be confused by The Confusion.     Jack Shaftoe, now a galley slave in Algiers, joins a conspiracy to pirate a Spanish treasure and escape slavery.  He and nine other oar-mates embark on their adventure burdened with Jack's usual mix of good and bad luck.  Sea battles, land battles and general havoc follow the cabal of misfits across oceans and continents.    Daniel has a smaller role in this volume, but the role of Jack's more socially integrated brother Bob waxes into a remarkable war-filled journey to free his enslaved love, Abigail.  Eliza, in the meantime, has lost her fortune and her firstborn son and must tread carefully to keep her head amid the perils of the French court.  Eliza works to recover her son and wreak havoc on the financial markets of Europe.    Jack's adventures from South America to Japan and Eliza's maneuverings in Europe draw you along at breathtaking speed with enough momentum to propel you through the 800+ pages.  The pace rarely falters and Stephenson continues to make even the secondary characters interesting.  He also maintains the obvious attention to research and detail found in Quicksilver.  The Confusion neatly sets the scene for the third and final book as divergent plots start to converge, and I can't wait to see where Stephenson will take us next.	2004-05-24
US	52920909	R27YRD18WKKSKL	0812580354	77230724	Calculating God	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Thought Provoking Premise	Aliens land in Toronto, but instead of &quot;take me to your leader&quot; it's &quot;take me to your paleontologist.&quot; This attention grabbing start leads to the alien scientist Hollus working with paleontologist Tom Jericho to research the various extinction events in Earth's past. Hollus explains that the planets of both the alien races that have come to visit Earth have had five of these catastrophic events at roughly the same time. The aliens believe that this is evidence of God's existence and are searching for further signs of God's intervention in the universe. Tom, dying of lung cancer, has a very hard time accepting any arguments for the existence of God and spends a good portion of the book debating scientific proofs with Hollus.      Calculating God has a fascinating, unusual and thought-provoking premise. Sawyer mixes both humorous and poignant moments in with the quite believable scientific discussions. Tom's internal turmoil as he deals with cancer is handled very well. However, the dramatic events that unfold in the last half of the book seem forced and over-blown. Sawyer is at his best when working with moral and philosophic quandaries and thoughtful scientific debates. I just couldn't get past the feeling that the ending didn't really mesh with the rest of the book.	2004-05-21
US	52920909	R1D3JX8W84IBOZ	0060534397	57456133	All Shall Be Well (Duncan Kincaid/Gemma James Novels)	Books	3	11	12	N	N	Solid and quietly entertaining procedural	Jasmine Dent has terminal lung cancer, so her neighbor Duncan Kincaid is not surprised to find her dead body in her apartment one morning.  But several small details make Duncan uneasy, and as a Scotland Yard Superintendent he's in the position to do something about it.  With the help of Sergeant Gemma James, he launches an investigation to find out whether Jasmine's death was suicide or something more sinister.    Suspects are plentiful: a shy friend Meg who helped Jasmine prepare suicide plans, Meg's shiftless boyfriend Roger, Felicity the home-care nurse, Jasmine's unsuccessful brother Theo, her reticent downstairs neighbor Major Keith, and of course Jasmine herself.  Duncan and Gemma methodically dig into the questions of motive and opportunity.  As the investigation progresses, Duncan reads through Jasmine's journals in hopes of gaining insight from her past.      It was nice to watch Duncan and Gemma move from a strictly profession relationship to something more personal.  However, I found it slightly bleak that not a single character in the book was in a solid relationship.  I did like getting to know the victim through her journal entries.  The plot is sound and the uncertainty about whether or not a murder was actually committed made for an interesting twist.  Altogether, All Shall Be Well is an quietly entertaining procedural and a quick read.	2004-05-19
US	52920909	R199K7PMSIHHZC	0380807831	978347759	Code of Conduct	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Fascinating World-Building	Captain Jani Killian has been on the run for eighteen years. Trained as an expert in the ways of the alien idomeni, she committed the treasonable offense of taking sides in an idomeni civil war. Presumed dead after a transport crash, she was actually hidden and patched together by a trio of doctors using experimental technology. Now she is found by her former lover, Evan van Reuter, who is the current Interior Minister. He wants her to use her expertise to investigate the death of his wife.       Jani agrees to maneuver through the bureaucracy in the heart of the Interior Ministry. But the deeper she digs into the secrets surrounding Lyssa's death, the more she wonders if she is being set up to fail, and by whom? In the meantime the Exterior Ministry is hot on her trail and so is her idomeni teacher Tsecha. Jani's investigation turns into a struggle for survival as she tries to evade capture as she deals with the progressive breakdown of her patchwork body.      The characters are well-drawn and have complex, hidden motivations. The plot is definitely more character-driven than future-technology driven, but Smith includes some intriguing ideas about the importance of &quot;smart&quot; documents.      Code of Conduct is a surprisingly fast and action packed read, considering the fact that a good portion of the book involves chasing down paper trails and documentation. The author has created an intriguing alien culture and throws out little tidbits about their religion and social structures. Likewise, Jani's troubled past is meted out in spoonfuls through flashbacks. It's almost a tease in a way; leaving you wanting to know a lot more about the idomeni than is revealed in this first book by Smith. I like finding a universe that I want to visit again in other books, so this was a plus for me.	2004-05-18
US	52920909	RNTGL7V6K93MD	0553575287	506642463	Graveyard Dust (Benjamin January, Book 3)	Books	4	1	1	N	Y	Historical New Orleans and a Voodoo Mystery	Benjamin January, musician, doctor and free man of color, navigates the dangerous world of 19th century New Orleans.  When his sister Olympe, a voodooienne, is accused of murder he knows that he will have to find the truth, because justice for the colored is hard to find.  The risk to Olympe increases as yellow fever breaks out in the jail.  And when January's life is targeted as well, by knife and by voodoo curse, he knows that time is running out.  January's frantic search for the truth wanders through all levels of New Orleans society, from high class French Creoles, to the voodoo queen Marie Laveau, to a runaway slave village in the swamps.    Hambly's obvious attention to detail and research is impressive and lends a gritty, believable reality to the New Orleans of 1834.  The story is gripping, the setting is fascinating, and the characters are compelling.  Hambly doesn't pull any punches in depicting the darker side of human nature and it is present in full force, not the least in the everyday injustices experienced by slaves and the free colored.  But the good side of human nature makes enough of an appearance to mitigate the bleak outlook.  January's budding relationship with Rose Vitrac is touching as is his friendship with fellow musician Hannibal.     The action in the book is interspersed with a lot of soul searching by January as he tries to reconcile his Christianity with his sister's belief in voodoo.  It's an interesting debate and it doesn't bog down the flow of the book.  Some will find the descriptions of slavery and racism difficult to take, but Hambly in no way romanticizes the customs of the times.	2004-05-17
US	52920909	R3BC8WQB7WVM4Q	0380788497	555801379	Changer	Books	5	20	22	N	N	Wonderful Modern Fantasy	The coyote Changer returns from the hunt one evening to find his mate and pups killed by ranchers.  But Changer is no ordinary coyote; he is one of the immortal anathor and a shape-shifter.  Enraged, he takes human form to seek his vengeance.  The trail quickly points to another of the anathor, and so he goes to Arthur Pendragon to register his vendetta.  Arthur is the king of the Accord, a government of sorts for the eclectic mix of immortals that make up the anathor: shape-shifters, sorcerers, animals and mythic creatures such as yeti and fauns.  Joining forces, Changer and members of Arthur's court find that the murder of the coyotes is just one facet of a much larger plot.  Changer tries to protect his one remaining coyote pup while digging further into the mystery of who instigated the slaughter of his family.  In the meantime, Arthur and his court are beset with their own share of difficulties, including pranksters, assassins, human reporters, and political turmoil. The hidden anathor, the ones that cannot pass for human, are increasingly agitating for the existence of the anathor to become public so that they can live in the open.  The threads of trouble are woven together deftly; saving the Accord will stretch Changer, Arthur and the others to the limits of their abilities.   The idea that ancient gods, legends and myths were all sourced from individual immortals is interesting and author Jane Linskold does a good job of tying together similar archetypes from several different cultures.  She manages to throw a good dose of humor into the mix as well. I liked this book a lot.  The plot grabbed me immediately and the characters are interesting and complex.  Even though the characters are immortal, they are by no means portrayed as perfect which makes them easier to identify with.  It was easy to cheer on the good guys in their defense of the Accord.  But it was also nice that not everything dealt with in terms of pure black and white.  There are several shades-of-grey issues dealt with in the book including the needs of the hidden ones and whether or not the anathor should interfere in various current problems such as the destruction of the rain forests.	2004-05-17
US	52920909	RQI733CZ8UM58	0380978903	803388288	Perfect Sax: A Madeline Bean Novel	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Fabulous Fun	Madeline Bean, Los Angeles party planner and caterer, is a little worried when a rare saxophone from the charity auction goes missing from her gala event for the Woodward School.  But that's nothing compared to the trauma of arriving home to find her house surrounded by the police and a dead woman in her bed.  When a neighbor turns up dead as well and Madeline thinks she's being stalked, she feels like her whole life is falling apart. <br />Chuck Hornett, her ex-boyfriend and cop, tries to ease Madeline's fears by loaning her a gun but only on the condition that she learns how to handle it.  Chuck has been catapulted back into her life because of the murder and he wants to win back her affection.  But Maddie has a serious problem with the fact that he has returned to his estranged wife to help her through her cancer treatments.  Just to complicate her love life even more, she becomes involved with the brother of one of her Woodward ball clients.  The young and handsome Dexter Wyatt has her heart fluttering and her pulse racing, but is he just too good to be true?  Madeline jumps feet first into tying all of her mysteries together including the mysteries of her heart.<br />Author Jerrilyn Farmer manages to neatly wrap up the seemingly impossible tangle of insurance fraud, hookers, obsession, and murder.  Along the way, she gives us sometimes glamorous, sometimes scathing insights into the lives of the LA rich and powerful.  The frenzy of plot twists and motivations are nicely balanced with explorations of Madeline's issues with trust and relationships.  The characters are likeable and complex and I enjoyed the way that Farmer ties in Maddie's personal issues with her investigations.	2004-04-22
US	52920909	R12JPXMNIR8GAQ	0671795740	778039193	The Gripping Hand	Books	4	21	27	N	N	The Moties are Back!	In this sequel to The Mote in God's Eye, humans and the alien &quot;Moties&quot; once again come into contact with dramatic results.  The Empire of Man has a blockade to keep the Moties bottled up in their own system because the Moties are explosively expansive and would quickly overrun the Empire.  Horace Bury, an Imperial Trader, and Kevin Renner, his pilot, travel through the Empire helping Naval Intelligence quell rebellion.  But Bury and Renner, veterans from the first contact with the Moties, have another goal:  to make sure that the Moties stay penned up in their system.  When they find possible evidence that the Moties may escape, they pull all the strings they can find in order to visit the blockade.  Events unfold quickly and they end up once more in the Mote system, trying to prevent a disaster.  They have help of Chris and Glenda Ruth Blain, the two children of the first expedition's captain.  The Blaine's have unique insight into the situation because they grew up around the only Moties allowed into the Empire.  <br />The tension is thick at times, and the space battles are well plotted.  However, there are large stretches consisting of political intrigue and Motie history lessons that slow down the plot considerably.  I think the sections are interspersed well enough to hold the reader's interest.  Some of the plot twists were hard to follow, especially once the Moties are involved.  However, considering the chaos involved during battles and throwing in completely alien thought patters, it's probably fair to have some confusion in the plot. The characters are engaging, but I found it a little annoying that some of them just drop out of the story at the end without resolutions.<br />The Gripping Hand is definitely easier to read if you have the background found in The Mote in God's Eye.  However, like most sequels, it doesn't live up to the promise of the first book.  It's entertaining, but not destined to be a classic.	2004-04-21
US	52920909	R3K26HEC3TWLBW	0380977427	727370009	Quicksilver (The Baroque Cycle, Vol. 1)	Books	4	5	6	N	Y	Massive Scope	Daniel Waterhouse is summoned to return to Europe from Massachusetts to resolve a dispute between prominent mathematicians Isaac Newton and Gottfried Wilhelm Leibniz.  During his voyage, which is interrupted by pirates, he works on a chronicle of his past, which is set against a rich tapestry of religious, political and scientific revolutions.  Daniel evolves from a young Puritan roommate of Isaac Newton to courtier and natural philosopher of the Royal Society.    While Daniel follows the great scientific minds of the era, Jack Shaftoe, vagabond extraordinaire, careens through colorful misadventures all over Europe.  He rescues the bright and beautiful Turkish slave Eliza from the siege of Vienna.  Together, they travel across Europe to Amsterdam, home to the budding financial markets.  Eliza's quest for fortune and revenge on her enslaver lead her deep into political plots and catapult her to Paris where she captures the attention of the King.  Jack moves on in his adventures and attracts a different kind of attention altogether.  As the fortunes of kings and countries rise and fall, the paths of our intrepid characters twist and cross over the vast scope of history.    Do not expect this to be similar to Stephenson's cyber-punk novels.  Quicksilver is not science fiction in the classic sense - do not expect aliens, futuristic technology or time-travel.  Quicksilver is historical fiction that takes place in the 17th and 18th centuries.  Large portions of the book cover the birth of modern science and math.  Other broad subject areas encompass European political intrigue, war and the development of financial markets.  But this is no dry, tame history - this is alive and kicking.  Having read Stephenson's book Cryptonomicon adds an extra dimension of interest to reading Quicksilver, since the main characters are ancestors of the characters in Cryptonomicon.  The one exception is Enoch Root who appears in both books and is apparently ageless.    Quicksilver does not have a neat resolution, and contains a large amount of set up material - it is very obviously the first book in the trilogy.  It is also massive, and with two more massive books to follow, you need to be prepared to devote a serious amount of time to this series.  Nobody can deny that Stephenson is wordy, but for such a long book, there weren't too many places where I found my attention wandering.  Stephenson keeps things moving along even during some fairly detailed explanations of science or politics.  He also plays around with different styles of writing, such as writing a chapter as if it was a period play.  It gives a feel for the times as well as varying the pace.      The three lead characters balance each other out nicely. Daniel can be a very passive character, which contrasts with Eliza's plotting and scheming.  Just when the going gets too heavy, Jack provides physical action and comic relief.  The main trio interact with an enormous cast of characters and one of the things I like best about Stephenson's writing is that he takes time to make even his secondary characters interesting.	2004-04-21
US	52920909	R2M5XNXWH3KJY0	0060528435	106591110	It Had to Be You (Grace & Favor Mysteries, No. 5)	Books	4	8	8	N	N	Cozy and Entertaining Mystery	Robert and Lily work hard in order to keep their guesthouse, Grace &amp; Favor, during the Great Depression. The siblings take on temporary jobs at a nearby nursing home, but they are soon trying to help police solve a murder. A crabby old patient in the home is smothered, even though he would have died naturally within days. To add to this puzzling event, the body of a young man is found as the ice melts in a lake at a nearby town. How can the two murders possibly be connected? <br />It Had To Be You is a cozy portrayal of village life during the Great Depression with a mystery thrown in the mix. The characters are interesting and believable, and author Jill Churchill has obviously done her research on the era. The book has a genteel feel that seems very appropriate to the time. Don't expect blazing guns and madcap action, but do enjoy the delightfully depicted period details. <br />This is the fifth Grace &amp; Favor novel, but it stands well on its own. Churchill does an excellent job of introducing characters and providing hints of their pasts without having readers wade through explanations of what happened in previous books.	2004-04-01
US	52920909	RZQXZA7W2AXYG	0060524944	919614916	Murder Unleashed (Jack & Jamie, Bk 2)	Books	3	11	12	N	N	Dogged Pursuit of Justice	A prominent Judge is found dead in his car, his throat ripped up, and his daughter's dog his only company.  The police point the finger at the dog, a boxer named Roark. Jack Field, kennel owner and former cop, believes that there are no vicious dogs and that behavior problems can be solved with liver treats, a tennis ball or a good game of tug-o-war.  He immediately takes Roark under his protection.  Jack doesn't really want to get involved in the investigation, but he can't stand by while a dog is accused of murder!  With the help of Jamie Cutter, medical examiner and love of his life, he dives into the tangled webs surrounding the murder.  It's a race to the finish, as Jack and Jamie dodge bullets and search for clues.    The banter between Jack and Jamie is lively, and their romance adds extra interest to the story.  The supporting ensemble is made up of shallow caricatures, but the main characters have complex histories and relationships.  The plot gets a little too busy at times; it doesn't twist so much as become cluttered with numerous side adventures.  There is a small logical flaw in part of the plot involving a diary that I found jarring, but not enough to ruin my enjoyment of the book.      Dog lovers will definitely get a kick out of the canine characters and will probably be interested in Jack's training techniques as well.  Author Lee Charles Kelly has been a professional dog trainer for 10 years.  Murder Unleashed is a quick, entertaining read and does not depend on having read the first Jack Field novel, A Nose for Murder.	2004-04-01
US	52920909	R39VLZQG4PT1BW	0060541814	855829988	The Andromeda Strain	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Classic Hold Up Fairly Well	A satellite that orbits the Earth to collect particles and organisms for study goes off course and crashes near a small town in Arizona. The satellite recovery team discovers streets full of bodies and their base loses contact with them. The Wildfire team of scientists is activated to study and hopefully stop the spread of this disaster. They recover the satellite and two surprising survivors from the town and head to the secure, sterile laboratory located beneath the Nevada desert. <br />Will they find the organism that killed the town of Piedmont? Can they recover from their mistakes and a lack of information? How did the two very different survivors (a baby and a sick, old man) stay alive? Will the Wildfire team prevent a final catastrophe as their sterile environment is compromised? The scientists are racing against the clock to find the answers. <br />The Andromeda Strain is Michael Crichton's first novel. Written in 1969, the technology is a little dated -- what was cutting-edge is now fairly commonplace. However, the plot is still relevant in this age of biological and chemical weapons. It was fresh and exciting when it was first released, but it may feel a bit clichd now, if only because many authors have followed in Crichton's successful, groundbreaking footsteps. <br />The urgency of the scientists is plain and the twists of action that occur outside the laboratory should add to the tension, but the documentary-style narrative leads to a somewhat dry and distant feel to the book. Heavy in scientific details, the science is clearly the star of the show - overshadowing the characters.	2004-03-18
US	52920909	RULQJISIEI1ED	0060520469	556721931	Cadillac Beach	Books	4	1	3	N	N	Mayhem And Laughs	Serge Storms, mental institution escapee and history buff has an off kilter master to-do list. At the top of his list are investigating his grandfather's death and finding missing diamonds from a forty year old heist. So of course his first step is to start his own Miami tour guide service with Lenny, his constantly stoned friend. That's just the beginning of the wild, wacky ride that Tim Dorsey has in store for the reader in Cadillac Beach. <br />History lessons and bodies are liberally strewn across Miami, as Serge takes his shell-shocked clients on their tour, tries to trace his grandfather's last steps, and masterminds a plan to invade Cuba. Cadillac Beach moves back and forth from Serge's wandering adventures in the present day and the exploits of his equally unbalanced grandfather, Sergio, in the 60s. <br />Both timelines are populated with villains and the not-quite-so-villainous. In fact, all of the characters are morally ambiguous, and the offhanded way the body count rises can be a little disconcerting. But for the most part, I found myself rooting for Serge and company. The frenetic pace of the story grabs hold, and the humorous moments smooth over the dark spots. Author Tim Dorsey does an excellent job of weaving all of the plot threads together at the end.	2004-03-18
US	52920909	R3BAXOSEK970FY	0345444000	269057755	The Dragon Queen	Books	2	16	18	N	N	Interesting Concept, Hard to Read	Alice Borchardt presents an interesting take on the Arthur/Guinevere story in The Dragon Queen. Guinevere is the daughter of a Celtic queen. She is hidden from the arch-druid Merlin at an early age and is raised by a druid and family of wolves and werewolves. During the story, she grows into powerful magic and fearlessly confronts every situation that she is thrown into. Merlin and Igraine are cast as evil sorcerers who torment the young Arthur and plot for power. Guinevere and Arthur must navigate the trials that they are thrown into by Merlin and Igraine if they are to win their thrones and be reunited. <br />Borchardt paints a vivid picutre of Britian in the Dark Ages. She has no trouble setting up scenes of legendary castles and fantastic worlds populated with dragons and goddesses. However, the plot often bounces around abruptly, which may leave you confused about which characters you are following. I found myself having to go back and re-read paragraphs and pages until I figured out what was really happening. The dialogue is uneven and several of the characters can't seem to find a consistent voice or personality. The main characters are either near-perfect (Guinevere, Arthur, Maeniel the werewolf) or consummately evil (Merlin, Igraine) with little room in-between. While that isn't a showstopper in a good vs. evil tale, it would be nice to have a character the reader could relate to. <br />Guinevere's many adventures seem to have only one point: to give her more magical victories and allies. Arthur enters the tale about halfway through the book, and he is also launched into several trials. Arthur's courage and nobility are showcased during his struggles, but they don't seem to advance the plot. His adventures might acquire more relevance in the sequels. The concepts and twists added to the Arthur legend are fascinating, but because of the inconsistent dialogue and the abrupt transitions I was not able to settle in and enjoy the storyline.	2004-03-18
US	52920909	RX07529SJ5DFX	0060503580	858054405	Contact Imminent	Books	4	7	8	N	N	Solidly Entertaining	Jani is the first genetically-engineered human-idomeni hybrid. Humans and idomeni do not have idyllic relations and Jani is not completely trusted on either side. She does serve as a bridge for communications. Contact Imminent begins with an attempted mine disposal on the grounds of the idomeni enclave near Chicago. The deaths resulting from the explosion of the mine increase the tension between the two races. Xenophobic zealots on both sides are plotting death and destruction. <br />Tsecha, Jani's idomeni dominant, asks her to travel to the planet Elyas in his place, to try to stave off civil war among the idomeni. She travels with Niall Pierce, a Service officer, and John Shroud, the doctor who saved her life by making her a hybrid. Before they leave, they discover the possibility that there might be another hybrid on Elyas. Upon arrival, Jani is thrust into the middle of the leadership crisis and the related existance of an entire enclave of hybrids. Jani must remain independent of the two factions and act quickly to keep peace among the idomeni. <br />In the meantime, Jani's friend Lucien remains on Earth to investigate the mine explosion. In the process, he finds a human plot to attack the embassy in order to drive the idomeni out of human space. While trying to warn the embassy about the attack, he is challenged to a duel by the hostile idomeni Ghos. Jani and Niall have to race back to Earth, hopefully in time for the duel and the attack. <br />Author Kristine Smith does and excellent job presenting a complex and well-realized alien culture, complete with religion and politics. Jani is a very strong character who is strugging with her identity as a hybrid. Smith gives us a good view of Jani's internal turmoil as she deals with her human and idomeni relationships. The supporting cast is fairly well developed, although without reading the previous novels, their motivations aren't always clear. <br />Contact Imminent is the fourth novel in the Jani Kilian series.It can be read stand-alone, but the start can seem a little slow as you figure out the backstory from clues. Once you get settled in and comfortable with the setting, the story takes off and it's hard to put down.	2004-03-18
US	52920909	R235NVHR71XW0A	006099486X	418849151	The Professor and the Madman: A Tale of Murder, Insanity, and the Making of The Oxford English Dictionary	Books	4	0	0	N	Y	Fascinating Facet of History	The Professor and the Madman contains a small, fascinating facet of history.  It explores the 70 year effort to create the Oxford English Dictionary, but focuses on the story of two men in particular.  Dr. Murray, the first editor to make any significant progress on the OED, and Dr. Minor, a prolific contributor to the effort.  The drama comes from the fact that Dr. Minor was a murderer and long-term inmate in a mental institution.<br /><br />The OED is not a dictionary like the one you will find on your shelf.  Each letter has its own volume and each word entry has several supporting quotations to demonstrate the proper usage.  Dr. Murray broadcast a wide plea for volunteers to supply appropriate quotations from literature.  Dr. Minor provided a consistent stream of high quality contributions.  The stories behind these two men humanize what could otherwise be a dry recital of facts and figures.  The author delves into the tragic events that unfold in Dr. Minor's life as well as detailing the struggles of Dr. Murray to organize such an immense undertaking.  There is enough history to satisfy history buffs, but also enough side stories to entertain the casual reader.  The writing style is somewhat formal, but not so stilted as to be difficult to read.<br /><br />Simon Winchester now has another book out about the Oxford English Dictionary: The Meaning of Everything.  If you are interested in a broader view of the history of the OED instead of focusing on the story of Dr. Murray and Minor, then that might be a better choice.	2004-03-18
US	52920909	R1UACSQJIRETO3	0451458737	353854112	The Peshawar Lancers	Books	3	5	7	N	N	Fast Paced Romp	A large meteor shower struck Earth in 1878, halting technological development and creating years of winter and starvation, especially in the Northern Hemisphere. With the help of the British merchant fleet, a large portion of the population of England relocated to British India. Fast forward to the 21st century, India is the center of the British Empire, France rules southern Europe and North Africa, and Russia has become an evil empire ruled by ritual-cannibalist Satan worshippers. The other major world powers are Dai-Nippon (Japan and China) and the Caliphate (an Arab-based Muslim nation that stretches up through eastern Europe).<br />Athelstane King, an Imperial army officer, and his scientist sister Cassandra have mysteriously become the targets for assassination. They must overcome their many attackers and solve the mystery of why they are targets. During this action filled romp across British India, the Kings pull several other interesting characters into their quest, including the royal heir, Prince Charles, his sister Sita, the French ambassador, Henri de Vascogne, and a Russian seerist.<br />Alternate history author S. M. Stirling's descriptions of the technology, geography and cultures of this alternate world are detailed and fairly believable. The action sequences are good and the story moves along at a fair clip, but I never really connected with the characters. They all seem a bit too cliched and don't seem to evolve during the course of events. The villians are very bad indeed, the heroes are brave, the royalty is noble, and the sidekicks are trusty. It might be more enjoyable for someone who likes Edwardian style novels or the Kipling British Raj stories.	2004-03-18
US	52920909	R3D03YMK055OSS	0060539828	461969075	Burning Chrome	Books	4	0	1	N	N	Classic SF Short Stories	Burning Chrome is a collection of ten short stories by cyber-punk innovator William Gibson, three of which are collaborations with other authors. It's an eclectic ride as a whole. There is no overriding theme that ties all of the stories together - they range from cyberpunk to surreal. Gibson's prose can be very poetic and he does an excellent job of setting the mood in each story. Even when his characters aren't very likeable, you can still identify with their emotions. <br />&quot;Johnny Mnemonic&quot;, &quot;New Rose Hotel&quot; and &quot;Burning Chrome&quot; are written in the same &quot;Sprawl&quot; setting as many of Gibson's novels. They are sharp and explosive cyberpunk stories that grab your attention and run. &quot;The Gernsback Continuum&quot; and &quot;The Belonging Kind&quot; are trips through what could be present day America with surreal twists. &quot;Red Star, Winter Orbit&quot;, written with Bruce Sterling, is the poignant tale of an aging Russian cosmonaut on an equally aging space station. &quot;Hinterlands&quot; is an eerie view of how far humans will go to satisfy the need for progress and exploration. &quot;Fragments of a Hologram Rose&quot;, &quot;The Winter Market&quot; and &quot;Dogfight&quot; are powerful studies of emotion, need, and what it means to be human. <br />Overall, I enjoyed Burning Chrome. Gibson's writing style is fun to read - he can establish mood and atmosphere in a few short sentences. I also like that he uses technology as a means not an end - the focus in the stories is how people interact with each other and technology intstead of showcasing what a cool idea a particular future technology would be. His stories tend to deal with the grittier side of human nature, and are not always comfortable to read, but they make you think.	2004-03-18
US	52920909	R30KQF3TBRBU2N	0380979004	959304293	Acorna's Triumph: The Further Adventures of the Unicorn Girl	Books	3	3	5	N	N	Targeted To Younger Readers	Acorna's Truimph is the seventh and final book in the Acorna series by Anne McCaffrey and Elizabeth Ann Scarborough. Acorna is a young linyaari (a humanoid-unicorn species) who was raised by humans. In previous books, she has had many adventures to be reunited with the other linyaari and free their home planet from the insect-like khleevi. In Acorna's Truimph, Acorna is reunited with her missing lifemate Aari who has been time-traveling with the feline shape-changer Grimalkin. Acorna bounces from one crisis to another across space and time, chasing thieves and rescuing people, all while trying to solve the mystery of Aari's strange behavior.     The plot reads like a series of television episodes -- each crisis is neatly wrapped up and then the characters move on to the next adventure. Several of the supporting characters aren't much more than cliches and even the main characters seem shallow at times. However, it is entertaining in a tongue-in-cheek kind of way and the action does bop along fairly swiftly.     This light-hearted jaunt through space and time with almost-magical unicorn people will mostly appeal to young adults. Older readers might want to try Scarborough's Nothing Sacred or books from McCaffrey's Pern series.	2004-03-18
