US	52928878	R2Z6EF6H9UX8XR	1400048710	20451978	Day of the Dachshund	Books	5	10	11	N	Y	Weiner Dogs Take Over the World	\\"Petographer\\" Jim Dratfield captures the quintessential essence of the Dachshund in this book of artfully-done, sepia-toned photographs.  It's a shame the Amazon listing fails to include a few of the shots inside the text, which run the gamut from a pair of doxies dressed in hot-dog costumes to a couple regarding each other with the doleful Dachshund \\"love-eyes,\\" all accompanied by fairly clever captions (like \\"Kosher hot dogs\\" when the aforementioned weiner-dogs in bun costumes have donned Jewish yarmulkes).  Although a few of the photos and captions are less-than-effectively selected, on the whole, \\"Day of the Dachshund\\" offers an excellent selection of cute Dachshunds doing what they do best: look cute and silly at the same time.	2005-03-23
US	52928878	R3LE0SJZNAXMU6	0764124196	724770849	Papillions (Complete Pet Owner's Manual)	Books	4	10	14	N	N	Excellent Introduction to a Wonderful Breed	Most people have only seen Papillons on television dog shows and never in person, a true shame as these little dogs are among the cutest and most wonderful of breeds.  Although this book doesn't come with one of the furry-eared little pups, it is a great introduction to the breed.<br /><br />The book covers the Papillon breed itself, giving a short history and breed standards, then goes on to discuss what to expect in a pet, delves into care and touches on grooming and showing, peppered throughout with color photos.  Yes, the dearth of printed Papillon literature in the US does mean that this book is the choice by default for many wishing to learn more about Papillons, and some of its information is both dated or at times erroneous, but overall, it's a good introduction to those hoping to learn more about one of the cutest and most endearing breeds of toy dogs out there.	2004-07-22
US	52928878	R2O2BU6VQCIRL5	081257639X	145563216	Faith of the Fallen (Sword of Truth, Book 6)	Books	4	17	23	N	N	Returning Fantasy to its Allegorical Roots	I have to admit, the first time I read Faith of the Fallen, I put it down about a third of the way through and didn't pick it up again for nearly a year--whereupon I made myself work through a few more pages, then couldn't stop reading until I was done. I was tired of finding once again Richard and Kahlan forcibly separated by some misguided and holier-than-thou woman--hasn't that been a plot point in at least half the previous five books?<br /><br /> Yet once I overcame my reluctance, I found the book to be an excellent example of something both fundamental to sci-fi and fantasy yet that is all-too-often neglected in today's offerings: the reflection of real-life social issues into the realm of fiction. The Empire threatening Richard and Kahlan's world is none other than an embodiment of communism, a &quot;perfect&quot; society in which the able provide for the poor and everyone except the bosses share equally in misery--a situation into which the people of the Empire have willingly enslaved themselves, and from which wizard Richard cannot save them but to teach them to save themselves.<br /><br /> Exploring social themes is nothing new to sci-fi or fantasy, nor should it be a surprise to readers of Goodkind's series; previous books have attacked religious fundamentalism, racism, and the political apathy of &quot;neutrality.&quot; And Goodkind tells his story masterfully, with the Empire's sad situation a mirror of the pages of the history books of Cambodia, Russia, China, and other failed experiments in the &quot;equality&quot; of living off of others' work.<br /><br /> And therein lies the problem for many readers. Fantasy is supposed to be &quot;escapist&quot; literature, not something with a point to make--or so those ignorant of the traditions of fantastic literature dating all the way back to the earliest myths and folk lore would believe. Too, other argue the topic is a dead horse needing no further beatings yet missing the point entirely when dismissing Faith of the Fallen; although through necessity the ideas and social messages of the book are exaggerated, many realize the value even today of its commentary on society--and the very fact that so many people object to this allegorical construct in the book is proof positive of the old saw that those who fail to learn from history are destined to repeat its same mistakes.<br /><br /> Goodkind is far from the first to address the issue of communism through allegory in his fiction; he stands upon the shoulders of Ayn Rand's Atlas Shrugged, many of Heinlein's stories and novels, and even the classic Animal Farm... yet this addition to the Sword of Truth series is in many ways a breath of life back into a series beginning to grow somewhat stale and an enjoyable read on its own.ssing Faith of the Fallen; although through necessity the ideas and social messages of the book are exaggerated, many realize the value even today of its commentary on society--and the very fact that so many people object to this allegorical construct in the book is proof positive of the old saw that those who fail to learn from history are destined to repeat its same mistakes. <br />  <br /> Goodkind is far from the first to address the issue of communism through allegory in his fiction; he stands upon the shoulders of Ayn Rand's Atlas Shrugged, many of Heinlein's stories and novels, and even the classic Animal Farm... yet this addition to the Sword of Truth series is in many ways a breath of life back into a series beginning to grow somewhat stale and an enjoyable read on its own.	2004-07-20
US	52928878	R2JBEB6LTUBXCJ	1556159005	152022281	Rapid Development: Taming Wild Software Schedules	Books	5	10	11	N	N	THE Source Book for Software Project Planning & Management	Those who have worked in the software industry are all too aware of the impacts of poor project planning and management endemic to their field: long hours of overtime, burnout, poor and difficult-to-revise code, etc. Even those outside the industry itself suffer from delayed product delivery, excessive bugs, and lack of product functionality due to shortcomings in project management. Rapid Development by Steve McConnell is the solution!<br /><br /> This isn't a book about how to program but rather how to plan to program and how to manage the tasks of development during programming. McConnell identifies some of the worst and most common mistakes made in project planning and describes their impact: ambitious deadlines cause high stress, coding errors, and usually cause the project to be completed way behind schedule; lack of communications between involved parties (users, managers, testers, developers etc.) leads to unrealistic expectations and missed goals; lack of proper planning and &quot;coding like hell&quot; lead to unmaintanable software, increased product bugs, etc.<br /><br /> Although to many software developers it may sound like McConnell is simply preaching to the choir, he offers solutions to each pitfall, many in the form of &quot;best practices&quot; with thorough analysis as to the appropriate use and any downsides of each. McConnell speaks from experience, having worked in development, management, and as a consultant for firms including Microsoft. Best of all, most of his solutions and practices he offers are simple to implement and pay off enormously over the lifetime of a project.<br /><br /> If more software companies followed the advice of McConnell's excellent book, software development might be a much more enjoyable profession, companies would save both time and money, and even the general public would be more satisfied with computer software whose headaches all too often stem from the poor development practices of the industry.	2004-07-20
US	52928878	R3SUZ62FPS1JNK	0060763957	967480762	Michael Moore Is a Big Fat Stupid White Man	Books	5	21	40	N	N	Revenge of the &quot;Whacko Attackos&quot;	Michael Moore levies a continual diatribe against the establishment that has catapulted him into the media spotlight and put him on the cover of Time magazine.  He claims to be a friend of the common man, fighting against corporate greed and government corruption with a passion that can only be called zealous.  Yet despite his vociferous denouncements and personal attacks against CEOs and politicians, those who disagree with Mr. Moore's odd blend of politics and entertainment are labeled and dismissed as &quot;whacko attackos&quot;--only now the attackos have the weight of investigation and truth behind their accusations with Hardy and Clarke's new book.<br />This book investigates many of Moore's claims throughout his career in both print and his &quot;documentary&quot; films, finding over and over again that Moore has deliberately bent and manipulated facts or even outright lied to make his point.  Moore's dishonesty runs the gamut from poor statistics (using raw totals rather than per-capita or other rates, etc.) to misleading film editing to his hypocrisy as to his own lifestyle--despite claiming to be for the &quot;common man&quot; and denouncing capitalism as evil with rabid fervor, Moore owns a number of multi-million dollar homes, flies a private jet, and charges upwards of $30,000 to speak at colleges.  Worst, despite making millions exploiting the Columbine tragedy, he's yet to donate a penny to the victims' families or their efforts to erect a memorial.<br />To many, the book does have its failings.  Although it includes a 33-page section of sources and citations to back up its claims about Mr. Moore, not enough citations are made in-line in the text, which leaves the antagonistic reader to conclude their conclusions to be as specious as Moore's own rhetoric... and the authors are not above making ad hominem attacks on Moore (the title should clue the reader quickly onto that fact!) or turning the pithy play on words against Moore in the same style as his own works of &quot;entertainment.&quot;  Still, the book is an excellent breath of fresh air and a source of ammunition for the vast majority who do not agree with Moore's extreme views of what America should be.own works of &quot;entertainment.&quot;  Still, the book is an excellent breath of fresh air and a source of ammunition for the vast majority who do not agree with Moore's extreme views of what America should be.	2004-07-19
US	52928878	R1RIXJIU615M8D	0764548832	221435395	Web Development with Microsoft Exchange 2000 Server (M&T Books)	Books	3	0	1	N	N	Decent overview, but content too shallow for most developers	As a web developer, I recently needed a good reference on programming for Exchange that went beyond the information I could dig up on Microsoft's various web sites, and as the local bookstore had this one in stock, I decided to give it a try.<br />The book does contain a reasonable overview of the technologies used when programming for Exchange 2000 (and subsequently 2003), including CDOEX / EXM / WF, WebDAV, ActiveDirectory, and such; however, most of the chapters tend to be about a third as long as I'd expect and give only cursory examples and often only the names of methods and properties used without any real descriptions.<br />Overall, although the book did give me a good introduction to technologies that have changed significantly over the past few years--CDO 1.2 and CDONTS users will find CDOEX and WebDAV, etc. rather confusing at first rather than familiar--I found that I had to resort back to MSDN and other online sources for most of the real information I needed.  With that said, I don't feel the book's cost is justified; I'd prefer a true reference rather than a simple overview.	2004-02-18
US	52928878	RUKMROBCMWYVJ	9995618346	657554010	From Takeoff to Landing	Books	5	1	1	N	N	The BEST book on what goes on during airline flight!	Written by commercial pilots, this book is simply the best out there hands down on explaining what goes on from takeoff to landing when you fly commercial airlines!<br />From what planning a pilot must undertake prior to the instruments and controls of the cockpit, the book details how safe and redundant every aspect of flight is.  Ever wonder about why a plane has an aborted takeoff or landing?  How about those bumps, clicks, and other strange sounds during flight?  Or the &quot;smoke&quot; that gathers at the wing tips and across the flaps during some portions of flight?<br />These questions and many more are all answered by this wonderful book.  It may be out of print, but it's well worth it for the curious or frightened flier to learn so much about the hows and whys of commercial flight.	2004-01-12
US	52928878	R3GS2BPPXLA5XH	0671722174	858835553	From Take-off To Landing: Everything  You Wanted to Know About Airplanes But Had No One  to Ask	Books	5	2	2	N	Y	The BEST book on what goes on during airline flight!	Written by commercial pilots, this book is simply the best out there hands down on explaining what goes on from takeoff to landing when you fly commercial airlines!<br />From what planning a pilot must undertake prior to the instruments and controls of the cockpit, the book details how safe and redundant every aspect of flight is.  Ever wonder about why a plane has an aborted takeoff or landing?  How about those bumps, clicks, and other strange sounds during flight?  Or the &quot;smoke&quot; that gathers at the wing tips and across the flaps during some portions of flight?<br />These questions and many more are all answered by this wonderful book.  It may be out of print, but it's well worth it for the curious or frightened flier to learn so much about the hows and whys of commercial flight.	2004-01-12
US	52928878	R1FN8ZAYQS2AZZ	0393310728	302322388	How to Lie with Statistics	Books	5	70	73	N	N	An Entertaining Primer on the Validity of Statistics	Although &quot;How to Lie with Statistics&quot; is a bit dated (having been written in the 1950's), the principles it puts forth are still valid today--if not moreso than ever--and the material is delivered in clear, concise, and even entertaining anecdotes and illustrations.<br />How often do you hear statistics bandied about in the media or used to try to prove some special-interest point?  &quot;Of course&quot; the people quoting the figures must be right with numbers on their sides... until you look at just how those numbers were arrived at.<br />This book isn't truly a guide on how to lie with statistics, but it is an excellent text that informs the reader both how others will lie to them using statistics and on how to interpret the validity of purported statistical data.	2004-01-09
US	52928878	R37CQ8KQLDBZ9S	0760312427	901218115	The American Airport	Books	4	10	13	N	Y	Fascinating History of the Evolution of the American Airport	From the first days of aviation--biplanes using dirt fields for landing and takeoff--to the modern state-of-the-art airports like the new one built in Denver--this book takes you on a historical and pictoral journey across the history of the American airport.<br />To most travelers, all airports are alike other than the variety of restaurants and shops contained within; most people never stop to look at the amazing architectural details of many of today's American airports.  From the art deco style of Regan National's updated terminals to the Native-American inspired &quot;tents&quot; of Denver International to LAX's futuristic Theme Building, this book gives a great overview of the distinctive styles and the functionality of our airports today.	2003-12-23
US	52928878	R28KK6HIX9I6RJ	1884820352	993179200	The Backseat Flyer	Books	3	0	0	N	Y	Interesting, but has a lot of questionable info, too	I love to fly--choosing a four-hour flight with a two hours of airport time over a six hour drive is a no-brainer for me.  I find airports and airlines fascinating, and I picked this book to learn more about the ins-and-outs of flight itself, not to resolve any fears of flying.<br />There is a good bit of decent information contained within The Backseat Flyer; after all, Ms. Anderson has extensive experience as a pilot.  The &quot;survival guide&quot; portion does contain good ideas for those fearful of or even just unsure about what to do to make one's flight the safest and best experience possible, and I found it fascinating to read a pilot's take on passenger travel.<br />However, the book also contains items of questionable value (and information that at times is flat-out wrong).  For instance, Ms. Anderson addresses the idea of catching colds or other illnesses from fellow passengers and says that airlines have gone from bringing in fresh air to recirculating the same stale air repeatedly &quot;to save costs,&quot; which is simply incorrect; modern turbofan (jet) aircraft change their air completely out as frequently as every two to three minutes--so in reality you are not at risk of catching a cold, the flu, or SARS from anyone but perhaps the passengers seated directly beside you.  She also advocates pseudo-scientific mumbo-jumbo like &quot;elemental diodes&quot; to reduce jet lag and fatigue, something akin to wearing magnets for join pain (which sometimes &quot;works&quot; due to the placebo effect).<br />The book is also rather spare; I had hoped for something longer.  Yet the illustrations are funny (if not terribly reassuring to the fearful flier!) and the text engaging.  I would recommend &quot;The Flying Book&quot; or &quot;From Takeoff to Landing&quot; perhaps as better books of a similar vein, but you may still wish to give this one a read.	2003-12-23
US	52928878	R29LTJLRQZSYKZ	0440178002	191357398	Shogun (Asian Saga)	Books	5	10	11	N	N	Exceptional Cross-Cultural Novel of Adventure &amp; Intrigue	James Clavell's Shogun may be his most famous work, and it is likewise his best as it presents a marvelous cross-cultural tale of adventure and intrigue in pseudo-historical 17th century Japan.<br />The true artfulness of the story is carried off by the use of Blackthorn, the English navigator of a Dutch ship wrecked in Japan amidst a period of intense political turmoil.  Although indeed based loosely upon the real-life figure William Adams, Blackthorn's importance to the story is to present a western viewpoint into the all-too-alien Japanese culture, and as Blackthorn becomes Anjin-san and ever more accustomed to his new life, so do we as the reader find ourselves increasingly immersed and drawn into that culture.<br />The cast of characters truly suits the epic scope of the novel's story, and most are well-drawn, complex, and interesting (though at times some of the minor characters may seem added as an afterthought).  Shogun-to-be Lord Toranaga makes for an excellent impeneterable genius manipulating everyone like a master puppeteer, and Lady Mariko similarly offers an intriguing character that the reader comes to care for.<br />The fact that Clavell spent years in a Japanese POW camp under the harshest of conditions during World War II (something like only 1 in 15 men survived) makes his portrait of Japan all the more remarkable, for he is able to portray the harsh and often alien life of 17th century samurai-laden Japan in a way that not only makes sense to the reader but that is appealing in the most romantic of ways to a degree far greater than that of Western society of the same period.<br />I suggest this book heartily to any fan of historical fiction and particularly to those with an interest in Japan.	2003-09-25
US	52928878	R1YV1183B0RQ54	0743424425	966329377	The Shining	Books	5	0	0	N	N	King at his Most Terrifying	Imagine yourself closed in for the winter, you, your wife and young son the only occupants of a suddenly-empty resort hotel.  A winter of solitude ahead...<br />Or so you thought... but the hotel's not all that empty when the supernatural are included on the guest list, and if you thought you had cabin fever after but a few months snowed-in, just think of what it would be like to have been a permanent resident!<br />The Shining is certainly one of Stephen King's most famous books (and the film one of the better adaptations thereof), and too is it among his finest and most frightening.  Although the title refers to the psychic empathy of 5-year-old Danny, the true horror revolves around his father's seduction by the dark forces at work buried deep in the Overlook Hotel's history.  King masterfully captures the psychological collapse of Danny's father while still maintaining the supernatural horror so intrinsic to his writings.<br />I enjoyed the film, but as is so often the case, the book is much better.  Stephen King's The Shining is certainly among the author's best and scariest!	2003-09-25
US	52928878	RE0B217H7QM6Y	0345378482	855829988	The Andromeda Strain	Books	5	1	1	N	N	The Original Bioweapon Thriller	Michael Crichton's work often may be formulaic, but in the Andromeda Strain, he takes full advantage of a standard sci-fi formula to create a gripping, frightening tale of biological disaster.<br />The premise: a crashed space probe releases the Andromeda Strain, an alien bacteria that coagulates human blood.  The scientists dispatched to study the bacteria in an underground biocontainment facility soon find themselves in a struggle of science vs. nature and eventually discover the Andromeda Strain's weakness in a very H.G. Wells-esque realization.<br />Overall, the book is well done and enjoyable despite its reliance on formula for its plot, and though slightly dated, the tale is still compelling today.	2003-07-03
US	52928878	R3ECVOKQZUUKLF	0886773687	475852404	Armor	Books	4	5	6	N	N	Good but not the equal of Heinlein's Starship Troopers	Some literary critics have asserted that Steakley's Armor is the author's answer to Robert Heinlein's award-winning novel Starship Troopers; that may well be the case, but Armor though a good read is not quite at the same level as Heinlein's masterpiece.<br />Armor is a two-piece story set in a world very similar to that of Heinlein's book, where soldiers in mechanical combat suits battle giant \\"ants\\" (compare to Heinlein's \\"bugs\\").  One portion focuses on the memories of Felix, a reluctant but outstanding soldier in the seemingly never-ending war verses the ants; the other on a group of scientists and the pirate trying to take over their planet.  The two tie together toward the end of the book.<br />Armor does deal with the futuristic military in a way very different from Starship Troopers; where the latter features characters built into civilized adults by their difficult experiences in combat, Armor's protagonist Felix instead finds war a terrible, inhuman, and even mechanical part of his life that he tries to put forever behind him.  Unlike the patriotic and even at times fascist themes of Starship Troopers, Armor presents a much more disparaging view of war.<br />Overall, the book is worth a read and is fairly enjoyable; those who disliked Starship Troopers for its militaristic society or perceived glorification of soldiers might like to give Armor a try for its opposite take.	2003-07-03
US	52928878	R2XZZYOH4ROWGG	0836218833	508924803	Attack of the Deranged Mutant Killer Monster Snow Goons (Calvin & Hobbes)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Some of Watterson's Funniest Calvin & Hobbes	I first began reading Calvin and Hobbes in the newspaper around the time he introduced the Killer Snow Goons story, where Calvin builds yet another mutant, deranged snowman--but unlike previous strips, Calvin attempts to bring the snow goon to life a la Frankenstein, leading to the monster creating an army of similarly deranged snow goons.<br />Watterson's artwork as usual is imaginative and humorous, and Calvin and Hobbes' interaction in this book are particularly hilarious.  If you've never read C&H before, consider this book a great place to start; long-read fans will also enjoy it as one of the best selections in the Calvin & Hobbes library.	2003-07-03
US	52928878	R8QU37QZZ437I	0671743058	14778474	Boy's Life	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Excellent Nostalgic Tale & Mystery	McCammon's Boy's Life is an excellent tale of nostalgia for the simple life of a boy growing up in small town USA combined with a mystery that protagonist 12-year-old Cory Mackenson must solve to save both his father's sanity and his own life.<br />Murder in a small town means that someone unsuspected must be the killer: a neighbor, friend, or even public figure.  The brutal killing of a stranger coupled with a historical setting during the Civil Rights Movement and Vietnam both serve to contrast the innocence through which Cory sees the world.<br />Though some elements of the plot may seem somewhat outlandish--such as the hunting-down of a former Nazi prison camp figure--what really makes the book shine is its portrayal of small-town life through the eyes of a 12-year-old boy.  Masterfully done with touches of imagination and magic and wonder, the story makes for an excellent read.	2003-07-03
US	52928878	R2FYXGOM7FZG8G	0671743058	14778474	Boy's Life	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Excellent Nostalgic Tale & Mystery	McCammon's Boy's Life is an excellent tale of nostalgia for the simple life of a boy growing up in small town USA combined with a mystery that protagonist 12-year-old Cory Mackenson must solve to save both his father's sanity and his own life.<br />Murder in a small town means that someone unsuspected must be the killer: a neighbor, friend, or even public figure.  The brutal killing of a stranger coupled with a historical setting during the Civil Rights Movement and Vietnam both serve to contrast the innocence through which Cory sees the world.<br />Though some elements of the plot may seem somewhat outlandish--such as the hunting-down of a former Nazi prison camp figure--what really makes the book shine is its portrayal of small-town life through the eyes of a 12-year-old boy.  Masterfully done with touches of imagination and magic and wonder, the story makes for an excellent read.	2003-07-03
US	52928878	R3KLNJVMC3IBZI	0060011602	311987730	Robert Young Pelton's The World's Most Dangerous Places: 5th Edition (ROBERT YOUNG  PELTON THE WORLD'S MOST DANGEROUS PLACES)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Excellent Read for Adventurers and Travel Readers Alike	Readers might be daunted by the title of Pelton's work on the World's Most Dangerous Places--who, after all, wants to travel to places like North Korea, Iraq, or the Balkans for the fun of it?  Yet even the casual traveler or fan of travel writing will find Pelton's book an excellent, entertaining read (would-be adventurers, too, will find a wealth of information).<br />Told in such a matter-of-fact and often tongue-in-cheek tone, at times you will find yourself wondering how serious Pelton is, yet his experiences alone traveling the world as a journalist and a dozen other professions leaves no doubt as to the deadly seriousness of his subject matter.  Even if you have no desire to jaunt off to Afghanistan until there's a AAA office and clearly-defined, Disney-esque tour paths built, you will find the backgrounds and information presented an enjoyable read.<br />Pelton covers a series of places rated least dangerous (like the US of A) to the most perilous (think Israel / Palestine), discussing the backgrounds of each, the current government structure, ongoing conflicts, etc.--in short, everything a prospective adventuring tourist may want to know.  Sidebars often offer a bit of humor, such as the tale of an \\"insurance salesman\\" whose sales pitch consisted of hand grenades and the threat to blow up his clients.  Finally, sections on everything from the professions that will take you to the dangerous places (from combat journalist to mercenary) to the necessities of dealing with armed forces, bandits, etc.	2003-06-18
US	52928878	R1SB3G2FOMLVQF	0060934913	24249899	Kitchen Confidential: Adventures in the Culinary Underbelly	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Excellent Dark Tale of Kitchen Life from the Inside	Tony Bourdain's breakthrough book Kitchen Confidential invites readers into a world few have seen more than the tiniest hints of: the hectic, high-pressure world of the professional kitchen.<br />Written as an expose of sorts, many of the things Bourdain covers will shock the casual diner reading his book, from staff parties afterhours with lines of coke all down the bar to the reasons not to ever order the seafood special or get your steak cooked well-done.  Primarily, the book covers Tony's life as a chef, from his drug-filled college days to stints at what must seem half the restaurants in NYC to his getting his life back on track and his success at his current job--yet the book is not a biography (unless of the industry itself); it instead offers on-the-mark observations on personalities, the business of restaurants, and the trials of achieving one's dreams.<br />While the book's subject matter is in itself interesting, what really makes Bourdain's book excel is his writing style: harsh, frank, and unapologetic yet still paced well and very readable.  His descriptions leap out like something from a hard-boiled detective novel and make for an easy read.	2003-06-18
US	52928878	R1LEAQG1C6GBQ5	0596002890	531420016	Mastering Regular Expressions, Second Edition	Books	4	8	8	N	N	Comprehensive Guide to Regular Expressions	Most computer programmers have heard of regular expressions, discussed in hushed tones and conjuring images of Unix gurus and their incomprehensible commands and godlike mastery of their systems, yet few actually know enough about regular expressions or how they work to do more than a simple word match using one, if that.<br />This book covers regular expressions from top to bottom in great and exhaustive detail, including the hows and whys of performance and supported features between the different engines that process them.  Though geared mainly toward Perl, the examples and text will apply to nearly any system that provides support, from PHP to ASP to Python.<br />The text is fairly dense and is not exactly geared toward the novice programmer, though.  I've had classes in Finite State Machines and still had to really apply my grey matter in a few spots to understand everything being discussed.  However, the understanding the reader gains upon completion of the text is invaluable and will expand one's programming potential exponentially.<br />The one real lack of the book is a good overview and quick-reference card, but on the whole, the book is a good selection from the O'Reilly library and well worth the read of any serious programmer.	2003-05-28
US	52928878	R3BZC1WVLSE5FA	1582341400	86601151	A Cook's Tour: In Search of the Perfect Meal	Books	5	2	3	N	N	A Tour to the Heart of Darkness for Culinary Enthusiasts	Bourdain's book A Cook's Tour is an exceptional tour of strange and interesting cuisine spanning the globe from Mexico to Portugal to France to Vietnam.  He tells of a pig feast in Portugal, from the slaughter to the table.  Of a full, entire sheep in Morocco.  Of a bar-cum-shooting gallery in Cambodia with live grenades and AK-47's for sampling.  And, of course, of the infamous cobra feast in Vietnam.<br />Bourdain's style makes the book a quick and enjoyable read; his descriptions leap off the page (for better or worse--I could almost have done without a vivid characterization of eating natto or of the questionable French food Tete de veaux) and bring to life the exotic foods, locations, and people he meets.  His gritty, no-nonsense approach makes everything seem all the more real and alive.<br />Television fans may have seen Bourdain's show on Food Network and thus already be familiar with his culinary adventure, but the book is so much more and reveals every facet that failed to make it to the screen.  If you enjoy travel or food writing, A Cook's Tour is a must-read.	2003-05-28
US	52928878	R2033FCRB5JBXC	0321115619	247041441	Adobe(R) Photoshop(R) 7 Web Design with GoLive(TM) 6	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Sharp, Well-Done Web Design Text	So you know HTML, script programming, and maybe databases, too.  Now you're interested in taking your web sites to the next level, snazzing them up with a bit more visual a presentation, but you don't know where to start.  Everyone talks about Photoshop, but you can't tell up from down inside it and have yet to make a graphic that looks like it wasn't drawn in crayon by a three-year-old.<br />Enter Adobe Press' book on web design.  For it's size (about an inch thick) it may seem pricey, the interior reveals glossy, full-color, full-bleed pages with examples on everything from basic web design and layout to the specifics of creating buttons with rollover states, textured sidebars, and more.<br />Rather than reading it through, msot readers will find themselves skimming to the points that are their weakest for tips and instructions.  At times I wish the book were a bit more detailed on some of its steps, but overall most web designers lacking in graphic design skills will find the book an invaluable first step toward creating web graphics and sites that work visually.	2003-05-28
US	52928878	R3UJA4IIQKRX60	1584790830	107539513	I'm Just Here for the Food: Food + Heat = Cooking	Books	5	38	40	N	N	Funny &amp; Informative Read on the Hows &amp; Whys of Cooking	Sure, you can follow a recipe, but did you ever wonder why it says to &quot;rest&quot; a cut of meat after cooking?  Or how exactly to properly sear or saute something?  Or do you follow instructions and end up with dry, overcooked, or otherwise inedible food nonetheless?  Then Alton Brown's I'm Just Here for the Food: Food + Heat = Cooking is definitely for you.<br />Alton's tone makes the book a quick and enjoyable read.  Capturing the essence of his Food Network program &quot;Good Eats&quot; in printed form, the book's text is often funny and always informative.  Illustrations accompany the text in strategic locations, including one particularly funny one demonstrating the consequences of poor safety when deep frying.<br />The book covers the basics from searing to grilling to broiling to cooking with water (steaming, simmering, etc.) and frying.  Each section explains the processes at work and the reasons each technique should be used and why they work.  Whereas other texts do cover the same techniques as this book--and some even delve into the hows &amp; whys behind the various methods of cooking--Food + Heat = Cooking makes the explanations readable and memorable without coming across like a textbook.<br />Fans of Brown's show on Food Network will certainly want the book.  However, don't buy this book if you're looking for lots of glossy, yummy photos of food.  Do buy it if you can't get recipes to work correctly or find their directions unclear or just want to improvise on occasion and have your dishes turn out great.  Although the book does contain quite a few recipes, its true value is in the techniques and the whys &amp; hows of cooking.	2003-05-27
US	52928878	R1HZVHC94QSXS8	1894525493	893676705	Hellsing: Ultimate Fan Guide #1	Books	4	13	13	N	N	Decent Guide but Somewhat Lacking in Depth	The first Hellsing: Ultimate Fan Guide covers the first six episodes of the bloody-good vampire anime Hellsing.  The guide includes a fair amount of artwork--some promotional art and some scans lifted from the videos--and descriptions of each of the episodes, plus character bits and items on various aspects of the world in which the series is set.<br />The episode summaries are okay if a bit thin; I suggest simply watching the anime itself.  Overall, fans of the series probably already know everything in the book, but it's still a neat accompanyment if only as a book filled with visuals and concept drawings from the series.  Roleplayers may find the bit at the end for incorporating the characters and world into the BESM game system useful as well.	2003-05-15
US	52928878	R39YXWXTU2HHU8	0375414827	998457405	The Language Police:  How Pressure Groups Restrict What Students Learn	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Frightening Story of the TRUE Failure of Public Schools	Nearly everyone seems to insist today that American schoolchildren are fairing more and more poorly in comparison to their counterparts around the world in our public school systems, and nearly everyone seems to have a solution in mind. However, very few understand the true failure of our public school systems, and it isn't something vouchers or more money is going to solve.<br />Education historian Diane Ravich reveals in her book \\"The Language Police\\" how pressure groups from both the left and the right have dumbed-down and bawdlerized textbooks and test materials used by schools across our country. Most parents simply assume that today's textbooks reflect the most modern and accurate content, providing effective and informative education to their children, but Ravitch's text quickly dispels such notions.<br />Some of her examples are downright scary: stories in which mountains or the ocean are present are rejected as \\"regionally biased\\"; California rejects \\"The Little Engine that Could\\" due to its male protagonist; the same state bans cake, chips, fast food, or soda from texts because they might somehow encourage kids to eat poorly. Fossils and dinosaurs may not be mentioned due to fear of endorsing evolution and offending fundamentalists.  The elderly may only be shown jogging or particpating in active sports so as not to imply them less capable than younger individuals; likewise for the physically handicapped, who cannot be portrayed as inspiring even in true stories such as a blind man climbing a mountain! Stories are stripped down and turned to mush with no educational merit in the goal of inoffensiveness and \\"balance.\\"<br />Students end up facing fantastically unrealistic and artifical worlds so bland it's little wonder they hate school and are bored to death. Critics giving children no credit for their imaginations rewrite history to further their goals, and even the most bland and carefully gender and ethnically balanced pieces still fail to please those most vocal and easily offended.<br />Unlike many pundits, Ravich examines the facts without political bias. Impeccably credentialled and having served in both the former Bush and Clinton administrations, she points the finger equally at the religious right and overly-sensitive left-wing groups quite accurately. Unlike many, Ravitch does offer a workable solution, too--so give her book a read and find out what we must do to save our school systems!ost vocal and easily offended.<br />Unlike many pundits, Ravich examines the facts without political bias. Impeccably credentialled and having served in both the former Bush and Clinton administrations, she points the finger equally at the religious right and overly-sensitive left-wing groups quite accurately. Unlike many, Ravitch does offer a workable solution, too--so give her book a read and find out what we must do to save our school systems!	2003-05-15
US	52928878	RL36IXUM41B7R	0345409973	347949682	The Cobra Event	Books	5	73	76	N	N	The Book that Frightened a President	Richard Preston's novel Cobra Event reads just like his nonfiction books on biological nasties, the Hot Zone and Demon in the Freezer--making it one of the most frightening things you will ever read, particularly if you've read either of those books as the similarities make the Cobra Event seem more like a nonfictional account than a novel.<br />The novel's story centers around a terrorist's creation and usage of \\"brain pox,\\" a deadly disease derived from smallpox that infects victims' brains like encephalitis--combining the rapid and easy spread of the former with the deadly neurological effects of the latter in a horrifying biological weapon.<br />The characters and events laid out are so plausible that one must frequently remind oneself that the novel is indeed fictional, particularly in the historical and pseudo-historical accounts serving as background for the main story.  Preston creates a believable team of investigators who must track down the terrorist behind the attacks--named by the FBI \\"the Cobra Event\\" due to their method of delivery.  Although the motivations and character of the terrorist himself are somewhat flatter, overall the story could easily be featured not in a novel but on newspaper front pages.<br />Former President Clinton read the book and reportedly was both so fascinated and frightened that he began taking seriously the threats of biological terrorism not only from large, well-funded state labs like those of the former Soviet Union and North Koreans but also the lone, rogue terrorist, a very real threat considering the relative simplicity of creating terrible biological weapons as was demonstrated so recently by the anthrax attacks after 9/11.<br />Read this novel--it is a fast-paced page turner that will drive you to burn the midnight oil in finishing it--but one that will also leave you terrified as to the very real possibility of biological terrorism.	2003-04-22
US	52928878	R33QV3N639SYKV	1565926102	906436109	Programming PHP	Books	4	6	8	N	N	Excellent Beginner's Reference for PHP Programming	Written in part by PHP's creator Rasmus Lerdorf, O'Reilly's Programming PHP is an excellent beginner's reference for PHP programming.<br />The book covers language fundamentals--many of which are similar enough to Java, C, JavaScript, etc. that a programmer with even a modicum of experience with those languages will quickly pick up the syntax--and then goes into detail on various aspects of PHP programming, from web programming to database integration.<br />The book does only touch on some areas; the database chapters, for instance, concetrate mainly on the MySQL interface, though PHP can easily be used with PostGRESQL and even products like Oracle and Microsoft SQLServer.  However, there are more in-depth books for readers wishing to explore those topics in detail.<br />The programmer's function reference and other appendices are useful as well, although at times finding a function in the index will only direct you to a short entry in the function reference, not an in-depth explanation as to its application.<br />If you want to set up a scripted, interactive web site without having to learn the more difficult (and at times less suitable) Perl, then PHP is for you.  As the language exists on both Unix and Windows platforms, PHP can serve as an alternative to other scripting languages as well such as ASP / VBScript.  This book is the key to getting started.	2003-04-17
US	52928878	R2HOU4OIM44G5H	1565926226	683384123	Cascading Style Sheets: The Definitive Guide	Books	5	11	11	N	N	Excellent, Comprehensive Guide to CSS1	Most people who have happened to work on web pages know something about stylesheets--yet very few actually know how to properly take full advantage of their features even at the &quot;level 1&quot; standard fairly well supported by most web browsers today.<br />If you've struggled to make a web page look like you want it, resorting to multipe FONT tags, tables, and formatting tags, then you need this book.  If you've written a stylesheet or two but find yourself creating and applying styles to the point it seems more trouble than it's worth, this book is for you.  From what I learned, I cut both the size of stylesheets and web pages for a number of both personal and company web pages--at times by more than a half--simply through a better understanding of the workings of stylesheets.<br />Beginning with the basics of what stylesheets actually are and building upon that basis with concepts like cascading, selectors, elements and pseudo-elements, the book will give readers an understanding of CSS difficult to appreciate merely through reading over other people's web pages or through trial and error.  An exhaustive treatment of each sort of style--from fonts to inline elements to boxes--follows and covers nearly everything one could want to know about CSS1.<br />That said, the book could use an update as since 2000 the browser wars have evolved as has the application of CSS2, which is only touched upon by the book.  However, unless you are already a pro at styles, you'll likely find this an invaluable reference, much as any title in the O'Reilly series.	2003-04-15
US	52928878	R1E9P4CFOYI3KF	0375508562	520161075	The Demon in the Freezer: A True Story	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Biowarfare: Incalculably Worse than the Nuclear Genie	People said of the first A-tests toward the close of the second world war that the \\"nuclear genie\\" had been let out of its bottle, words proved prophetic as in coming years the world raced toward nuclear armageddon.  Yet today the nuclear genie is largely bottled thanks to the end of the Cold War, only to be supplanted by the wilder and unfortunately more accessible \\"poor man's\\" weapons of biowarfare.<br />Richard Preston, the author of the book that introduced western society at large to the threat of Ebola (The Hot Zone), presents a tale many times more chilling than his previous work as he delves into the threat lurking ostensibly in only two locations on earth: smallpox.<br />Preston's nonfiction reads better than many novels, and the reader will be hard-pressed to put down this page turner.  The content will frighten all but fools--particularly the descriptions as to the ease of militarizing the world's greatest scourge into a vaccine resistant pandora's box demon.  Though most of the tale is set between the anthrax attacks of 2001 and the present, he explores the days of the Eradication to describe the methodology (and set up its limitations) that rid the world of smallpox and to describe in chilling detail the effects of the disease.<br />If you thought Ebola was scary, smallpox will send you to cower in the corner as Preston details the ease of spread of the disease, where every infected person likely infects at least ten others--at times simply by being in the same building.  Unlike the anthrax scare where only those exposed to the letters became ill, a smallpox attack could kill millions in mere weeks--and to believe that only the US and Russia maintain smallpox stores under strict security is a hope utterly dashed by Preston's account when he describes such recent finds as an amputated arm of a smallpox victim preserved in a dark University storeroom, or the forgotten personal stores of retired researchers at labs around the country--not to mention the bankrupt (financially and morally) Russian weapons program that to this day continues weapons work with smallpox.<br />His description of the ease of making vaccine-resistant smallpox reinforces the belief that we must work with the demon in the freezer to develop treatments and newer vaccines--the one in use today is the same as was used over 200 years ago.  Read this book--just not alone at night; the smallpox demon makes Ebola look like a child's stuffed animal in comparison.nkrupt (financially and morally) Russian weapons program that to this day continues weapons work with smallpox.<br />His description of the ease of making vaccine-resistant smallpox reinforces the belief that we must work with the demon in the freezer to develop treatments and newer vaccines--the one in use today is the same as was used over 200 years ago.  Read this book--just not alone at night; the smallpox demon makes Ebola look like a child's stuffed animal in comparison.	2003-04-15
US	52928878	RO3B5NWNGH4IW	0385334966	539408457	Biohazard: The Chilling True Story of the Largest Covert Biological Weapons Program in the World--Told from Inside by the Man Who Ran It	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Frightening Picture of Russian Biowarfare Program	You would be a fool not to be frightened by Ken Alibek's chilling depictions of the Russia bioweapons program.  Alibek, the former #2 man in Biopreparat--the Russian cover for a large facet of their weapons work--defected to the United States after going there on a weapons inspection program, and his account is detailed and frightening.<br />The United States officially ended their biowarfare programs under Nixon, and for years most of the western world naively believed the Soviet claims that they, too, had done so.  Yet under the guise of ostensibly civilian medical entities like Biopreparat, the Soviets and then Russians continued their work toward creating the world's deadliest microbes--as told here by one of those at the very top of the effort.<br />Himself the innovator behind the Russian's weapons-grade anthrax, Alibek saw the makings of bioweapons from his own anthrax to turlaremia (which he himself accidentally contracted), plague, smallpox, and such emerging threats as Ebola and viral encephalitis.  The Soviet program became so compartmentalized that with the fall of the Soviet Union, not even those involved know the full extent of what was done or what has become of many of those working on such weapons--many of whom have been courted by North Korea, Iran, and Iraq.<br />Alibek left Russia in the 90's, yet even today there is admission from their government of continued work with smallpox at the viral facility of Vector (to where they illegally moved their WHO-sanctioned smallpox stores).  The same individuals from the Communist regime still run a now largely-bankrupt program... who knows what horrors are even now being cooked up in their secret labs?  Alibek's true tale leaves one incredibly scared as to the answer.	2003-04-15
US	52928878	ROBMTHDLPW8OW	0671425382	233467865	The Alien Probe (The Tom Swift  Series #3)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Great Series to Introduce Young Boys to Science Fiction	This particular incarnation of the Tom Swift series is a great place for young boys to discover science fiction. The stories are entertaining and do a good job of holding one's attention, plus the author attempts (with varied success) to weave in actual science here and there. I say the books are good for young boys because the protagonist is of course Tom Swift, and the format the adventure-story favored by many young boys, but the character Anita does offer a strong (but almost tomboyish) female role as well.<br />In the third story of the series, Tom must protect an alien space probe recovered from Io, one of Jupiter's moons, from theft while seeking to communicate with the artificial intelligence within.  The story sets up the later works in the series as the probe helps Tom develop a hyperdrive and thus launch space exploration well beyond the moons of Jupiter.	2003-03-17
US	52928878	R1Y9WXYVX1QBF9	0884114643	855472224	Tom Swift: The Alien Probe	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Great Place for Youngsters to Discover Science Fiction	This particular incarnation of the Tom Swift series is a great place for young boys to discover science fiction. The stories are entertaining and do a good job of holding one's attention, plus the author attempts (with varied success) to weave in actual science here and there. I say the books are good for young boys because the protagonist is of course Tom Swift, and the format the adventure-story favored by many young boys, but the character Anita does offer a strong (but almost tomboyish) female role as well.<br />In the third story of the series, Tom must protect an alien space probe recovered from Io, one of Jupiter's moons, from theft while seeking to communicate with the artificial intelligence within.  The story sets up the later works in the series as the probe helps Tom develop a hyperdrive and thus launch space exploration well beyond the moons of Jupiter.	2003-03-17
US	52928878	R1F4O1TE1IXCP8	0671411829	223971841	Terror on the Moons of Jupiter (His Tom Swift ; 2)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Great Introduction to Sci-Fi for Youngsters	This particular incarnation of the Tom Swift series is a great place for young boys to discover science fiction. The stories are entertaining and do a good job of holding one's attention, plus the author attempts (with varied success) to weave in actual science here and there. I say the books are good for young boys because the protagonist is of course Tom Swift, and the format the adventure-story favored by many young boys, but the character Anita does offer a strong (but almost tomboyish) female role as well.<br />This second story in the series features Tom on a mission to explore the moons of Jupiter, where he and his friends find an alien space probe trapped on Io.  They must free the probe while avoiding deadly sabotage from within their mission and the harsh, volcanic environment of Io.	2003-03-17
US	52928878	R1NZJ2K5MHQZ6O	0884114600	34558719	Tom Swift Terror on the Moons of Jupiter	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Great Series to Introduce Young Boys to Science Fiction	This particular incarnation of the Tom Swift series is a great place for young boys to discover science fiction. The stories are entertaining and do a good job of holding one's attention, plus the author attempts (with varied success) to weave in actual science here and there. I say the books are good for young boys because the protagonist is of course Tom Swift, and the format the adventure-story favored by many young boys, but the character Anita does offer a strong (but almost tomboyish) female role as well.<br />This second story in the series features Tom on a mission to explore the moons of Jupiter, where he and his friends find an alien space probe trapped on Io.  They must free the probe while avoiding deadly sabotage from within their mission and the harsh, volcanic environment of Io.	2003-03-17
US	52928878	R1DAPG475KEVQR	0884114600	34558719	Tom Swift Terror on the Moons of Jupiter	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Great Series to Introduce Young Boys to Science Fiction	This particular incarnation of the Tom Swift series is a great place for young boys to discover science fiction. The stories are entertaining and do a good job of holding one's attention, plus the author attempts (with varied success) to weave in actual science here and there. I say the books are good for young boys because the protagonist is of course Tom Swift, and the format the adventure-story favored by many young boys, but the character Anita does offer a strong (but almost tomboyish) female role as well.<br />This second story in the series features Tom on a mission to explore the moons of Jupiter, where he and his friends find an alien space probe trapped on Io.  They must free the probe while avoiding deadly sabotage from within their mission and the harsh, volcanic environment of Io.	2003-03-17
US	52928878	R1QN52VIQJKTNJ	0441359175	340611713	I Will Fear No Evil	Books	4	3	3	N	N	A Weaker Yet Still Enjoyable Heinlein Story	Robert Heinlein said that he cut nearly 100,000 words from I Will Fear No Evil, but the book itself still drags on at points unlike many of his masterful works.  Still, the book presents an idea deserving of the term \\"novel\\" and is an enjoyable read on the whole and a must for true Heinlein fans.<br />The basic premise: a wealthy, crotchety old man contracts to have a highly experimental and illegal brain transplant performed to preserve his life; unfortunately, the first suitable donor is his much-adored, beautiful, and spunky secretary who is herself killed in a mugging.  Typically good Heinleinian legal shennanegans follow as the sucessful transplantee must prove his identity, and then the meat of the novel (after many thousands of words of set-up) begins as he must adapt to being a \\"she.\\"<br />Much of the novel from that point is an enjoyable speculative exploration of the idea of having ones consciousness transplanted to another, altogether different body, including passages where the female's \\"ghost\\" shares the young body's mind and the reborn old man finds himself attracted to, having a child with, and eventually sharing a body with his old business partner.  The latter portions are somewhat below Heinlein's normal standards of tight, well-defined prose--but then again, during the writing of I Will Fear No Evil, Heinlein did suffer a long relapse of tuberculosis that frequently interrupted his writing efforts.<br />Heinlein novices would be advised to read Starship Troopers, Stranger in a Strange Land, The Moon Is a Harsh Mistress, and The Past Through Tomorrow (his \\"future history\\" anthology) first, but those already familiar with the grand master of sci-fi will likely find this still a fun read--and a requirement for the complete Heinlein library.	2003-03-15
US	52928878	RI03NYQDXQLZ5	0345316509	380323119	Job: A Comedy of Justice	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Hilarious, Satirical, and Blasphemous... Great!	Warning: those closely staid in their religious beliefs may find this book wholly (holy) offensive... yet for everyone else, Heinlein's tale of a reluctant saint, his temptations, trials, and tribulations, and his pagan bigamous wife is one of the grand master of science fiction's most enjoyable works.<br />Alec Graham's life is changes when he walks across coals as a test of faith and emerges in a similar but altogether different world, one where he has slipped into the shoes of a gangster sleeping with his cruise ship's cabin maid and on the run with a load of hot cash.  Striving to be true to his own wife and trying to unravel what has happened without going totally bonkers, Alec must survive what he perceives to be the tests of Job.<br />Only he falls for Margrethe, his kind, beautiful, understanding, and Nordic maid who's everything his minister's wife is not, and the two of them must survive being dragged from one parallel world to another at the worst possible times.  Just when Alec thinks he's converted his heathen beloved, the world comes to an end... and heaven isn't exactly all it was cracked up to be (you can tell Heinlein was a Mark Twain fan... read Letters From the Earth some time).<br />Unable to find Margrethe anywhere in heaven and off=put by pushy, egotistical angels, the ignorant masses of newly arrived humans, and dismayed at his own sainthood, Alec demands to go to hell to search for her ... where he eventually finds that God hasn't been playing fair, Lucifer's not his enemy (and has a Texas drawl), and Loki is up to his usual tricks.<br />That synopsis may scare off anyone not secure in his or her religious beliefs and drive those who are to conniptions, but for those able to laugh over the most sacred of cows, this book is as must read.	2003-03-15
US	52928878	R2H7RIUYI7WQ7E	0786887621	594236862	Jay and Silent Bob Strike Back: A Screenplay	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Read Some of the Snappiest, Most Hilarious Dialog Ever	Kevin Smith is the master of delivering snappy, intelligent, and HILARIOUS dialog in his films, and Jay and Silent Bob Strike Back is no exception.<br />The storyline is fairly simple, in a Kevin Smith way: local stoners & sometime dealers Jay and Silent Bob find out there's going to be a movie made about comic book characters based on them, read a few nasty comments about it on the Internet, and decide to trash the movie.  Basically, the story is more a vehicle for an homage to the previous Jersey flicks featuring the improbable duo, with appearances by nearly every character from the previous films.<br />That, however, doesn't stop Smith from putting some of the funniest dialog ever into the mouths of all those characters, and reading the screenplay is almost as good as watching the movie so heavily dependent on said dialog is the story (though you miss out on some pretty cute girls!)	2003-03-14
US	52928878	R2X08L82DZ8YKF	1582970262	190749216	The Writer's Complete Fantasy Reference	Books	4	15	16	N	N	Good Reference and Starting Point	A long time ago I thought that fantasy would be the easiest genre in which to write--boy was I wrong!  Readers want believable worlds and characters with which they can identify, and that means doing your research to base the fantastical on the realistic.  This book is a wonderful place to start.<br />Do you think armored warriors can just ride their horse at full gallop for hours on end? (Try more like one charge.)  Do heroes wearing full armor go around decapitating their foes with one swing?  (Think again!)  What about government, religion, or a believable system of magic with consistent rules that work?<br />The fact is, very few of us are familiar enough with the eras of the past often drawn upon for the setting of fantasy novels to completely paint a convincing, enticing picture of the worlds we imagine.  That's where this book comes in as it examines a number of the most common elements of fantasy universes and discusses their roots and proper employment.<br />Like any writing reference, this one won't make you an instant bestselling author, nor can it substitute for lack of familiarity of the genre itself for would-be writers.  It can and does however offer a starting point that answers many common questions and points out frequent blunders beginning writers may have.  It can't replace a library of mythological and historical references, but for a start and the price, it's a great addition to any writer's horde of books.	2003-03-14
US	52928878	RCD1BXBBIPYV6	0441569595	769194143	Neuromancer	Books	5	2	2	N	N	The Definitive Cyberpunk Novel	William Gibson earned a place in literary and science fiction history by defining an entire genre with his novel Neuromancer, creating cyberpunk as a fusion of hard-boiled dystopian science fiction, virtual reality, and the anarchical punk scene of hacking.  His constructions have since become part of the fabric of the entire cyberpunk millieu and every work to follow, from the total reality-immersion experience of cyberspace itself to the street-smart, hard-boiled characters populating the semi-dystopian future to the cowboys of the electronic frontier.<br />Neuromancer tells the story of just such a cyberspace hacker down on his luck who through the offer of a mysterious benefactor finds himself caught up in the plans of multinational conglomerates and artificial intelligences.  Teamed up with a tough, sexy street ninja, Case must unravel the plots without getting his brain fried by electronic countermeasures, viruses, and the ever-present AIs.<br />The book's atmosphere is gritty and dark, yet the pages turn with rapidity.  Unlike some of Gibson's later works, Neuromancer lacks pretention and is a wonderful read.  If you are even a casual reader of science fiction, you derserve it to yourself to read this book.	2003-03-14
US	52928878	R1O4RZ5X9BWN64	0674007344	55047901	Separation of Church and State	Books	3	25	77	N	N	Thought-Provoking but Somewhat Disappointing	The idea of &quot;separation of church and state&quot; today is in much debate as those on the religious right accuse the secularization of America for countless social ills, and recent decisions such as the controversial ruling on the Pledge of Allegiance and subsequent mass public outcry demonstrate exactly why the issues Mr. Hamburger discusses are so important in today's society.<br />The historical analyses are indeed interesting but do seem somewhat revisionistic in nature, such as the idea that the founding fathers &quot;didn't really intend for strict separation&quot;--what they meant is certainly up for debate, but the changing interpretations of the First Amendment are the very nature of our government, not a &quot;myth&quot; invented later in history.<br />Overall, the book to me seems somewhat slanted to the idea that the state and church (namely, the Christian church) need not be so cleanly divided as has been recent policy, but it is nonetheless an interesting read.	2003-03-13
US	52928878	R2XNT0V7DK0IJV	0970554788	676121327	The Big Breach : From Top Secret To Maximum Security	Books	5	11	11	N	Y	MI6: A Story of No Accountability to the Government	Richard Tomlinson is a former MI6 (the British equivalent to the CIA) operative who ran afoul of poor management and subsequently found out just how little accountability there is for MI6 to the British government as they illegally pursued him throughout Europe and exerted influence with forein intelligence services to make his life miserable.<br />The first half or so of the book concerns his recruitment, training, and service with MI6.  Though Tomlinson never reveals any true national secrets, the tale is still an enjoyable read and casts an interesting light on the less-than-glamorous life of a spy (sorry, James Bond is complete fiction!)  Unfortunately, due to his reluctance to discuss secret issues and the brevity of his career, this fascinating portion of the book soon comes to a close.<br />Following a clash of personality with a superior, Tomlinson is summarily dismissed from MI6 and immediately put under watch, his life controlled and manipulated by his former coworkers.  He spends time in prison for supposedly violating the secrets act in Britian, then leaves the country to try to make a life that won't be constantly monitored and manipulated.  The tale is one of injustice and frightening lack of government accountability and worth every minute spent reading it.	2003-03-13
US	52928878	R4GBYM2RX14YV	0679780017	464982251	Japanese-English English-Japanese Dictionary (English and Japanese Edition)	Books	5	19	22	N	N	Good All-Around Dictionary for Japanese	Novices and more advanced students and speakers of Japanese alike will find this a very handy reference to have on hand.  Broken into two halves--one an English to Japanese dictionary and the other the reverse--the book allows students to easily locate whatever word they need.<br />The one &quot;fault&quot; is that the Japanese-English portion is in Romaji, or the English-letter representation of Japanese sounds, which can make locating some words difficult for a couple of reasons--first, readers may not know the pronounciation of a given word in kanji (which other books better address anyway); and second, Romanization methods differ, yielding some confusion over the proper &quot;spelling&quot; of a given word.  Still, a student with some knowledge of grammar should be able to look up spoken, Romanized, or kana-ized words without much difficulty.	2003-03-13
US	52928878	R3T22L4ZZ9CTKA	0553380966	199085075	The Diamond Age: Or, a Young Lady's Illustrated Primer (Bantam Spectra Book)	Books	5	2	3	N	N	An Intriguing Neo-Frankenstein Story	Remember Mary Shelley's signature work about a man whose ultimate knowledge of technology seemingly gives him control over even life and death only to realize that his creation is not only out of control but to be his own undoing?<br />Think of The Diamond Age as a neo-Frankenstein story reflecting the same themes: the Victorian idea of total control through technology (here, nanomachines that can build or modify nearly any structure) verses the ultimate trimuph of chaos and Nature over that control (again, the nanomachines as a vector unseen of ultimate loss of control).<br />In Diamond Age, Stephenson presents a more mature work than his very entertaining \\"pizza mafia\\" book, Snow Crash, with complex themes of man verses nature and a reflection of the Victorian-era ideas of Frankenstein.  One example is a local toughguy who uses technology to build up his muscles even while he sleeps but is done in by \\"cookie cutters,\\" nanoexplosives that basically shred his body into pieces without his even knowing they were there.<br />The story mainly centers on two characters, one a brilliant nanoengineer stifled by the neo-Victorian society within which he lives who finds himself put in contact with the kind of dirty life that is anethema to his culture; the other is a young, underprivilidged  girl who comes by his creation, a powerful nanotechnological book to serve as a primer, through which she learns and grows and even raises her own army of sorts taught by the same book.  At the same time, tensions in the Middle Kingdom (that's China, by the way) threaten an agrarian revolt and invasion akin to what happened in Cambodia, yet another facet of the nature/chaos vs. technology/order storyline.<br />The Diamond Age is a tougher read than Snow Crash but yet a more fulfilling one, indicative of Stephenson's growing mastery of his writing talent.  Casual readers may have some difficulty penetrating the text and find themselves skimming ahead at first (as I did when I first picked up the book), but most will also find themselves drawn back into the book as the pace picks up and the plot thickens.up the book), but most will also find themselves drawn back into the book as the pace picks up and the plot thickens.	2003-03-13
US	52928878	R315KBN9T2MCE8	0312863586	821153252	Dracula	Books	5	3	4	N	Y	The Original and Best Vampire Story	Everyone knows the name &quot;Dracula,&quot; but the majority have only seen the legendary Transylvanian Count on the silver screen or through pop culture; few indeed have actually read the work that started it all.<br />One cannot claim to be a fan of vampire literature or of Dracula himself without having read Bram Stoker's tremendous work of gothic horror.  Think that Dracula and other vampires can't be out in daylight?  Wrong--they simply have no powers during the day, which you'd know if you read this extraordinary book.<br />Written in epistolary form (that is, as a series of letters and diary entries), the story is presented from the viewpoints of the main characters, from Jonathan Harker to his wife Mina to Dr. van Helsing.  Rather than detracting from the story, this format breaks up what would otherwise be a rather long manuscript into manageable chunks and adds to the historical character of the novel.<br />Modern film interpretations have presented Stoker's story through the eyes of each producer, director, and screenwriter, with nearly all making wholesale changes--Mina Harker, for instance, is NOT the reborn lost love of Count Dracula as Francis Ford Coppola would have us believe.  Many others who have &quot;read&quot; Dracula have done so through abridged texts that distort the story through omission.  Pick up and read the story that started it all in its intended format... Bram Stoker's Dracula.  You won't regret it.	2003-03-13
US	52928878	R2FJKFL75ED0Q3	0767908473	495549695	The Sorcerer's Companion: A Guide to the Magical World of Harry Potter	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Interesting Book, Particularly for Kids	I thoroughly enjoyed every book to date in the Harry Potter series, finding them very appealing to my kid-at-heart.  Familiar with most of the mythological references introduced by Ms. Rowlings already (and often amused at her interpretations), I decided to track down this book for someone else's perspective on all the items that go into making up the fantastical Harry Potter world.<br />The book offers the backgrounds behind many of the creatures, spells, and magical items of Hogwarts and beyond, from the mundane ghost to the esoterics of latin spells.  Though I personally found the text to be a bit shallow in its treatment, for someone a bit younger the book is a perfect introduction to the basis for the magic of Harry Potter.  For those who are unaware of the real mythological identity of creatures like basilisks or the working of hexes, this book is informative and fun--just don't expect to use it as a serious reference tome.	2003-03-13
US	52928878	RE30PZFWLCPYW	0553380958	445913	Snow Crash	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Pizza Mafia Only the Tip of the Iceberg	Neal Stephenson's Snow Crash may be known in many cirlces as \\"that pizza mafia book,\\" but for those who have actually taken the time to read more than the first few pages featured as excerpts at the ends of other books, it is an extraordinary ride into the near future that blends cyberpunk and linguistics and archaeology all into an amazing, fast-paced tale.<br />There is indeed the pizza mafia; the appropriately named main character Hiro Protagonist begins the book as a driver for THE pizza delivery chain, whose owner/don personally guarantees on-time delivery (and woe be the deliveryman who fails to make good and make the godfather look bad).  This near-future world features a religion spawned upon Elvis, a destabalized government where the military has sold off aircraft carriers to stay solvent, and inflation that results in people carrying around \\"megabucks\\" ($1,000,000 bills!!) as small change.<br />The story focuses on the attempted world domination of a media mogul and founder of Elvis worship whose virus passed from computer screen to hackers' brains is an attempt both to recreate the pre-Babel days and also to control the minds of his employees and the people of the world as a whole.  Aspects of Sumerian and Babylonian mythology intertwine with gritty cyberpunk to make the novel a real page-turner filled with characters like an Aleutian whose motorcycle contains a Soviet nuclear torpedo wired to explode upon his death, a punk young skateboard-bound delivery girl, and the aforementioned Hiro Protagonist and pizza mafiaoso.<br />This book is a definite read for fans of cyberpunk of any sort.  Though less intellectual than his following \\"Diamond Age,\\" Stephenson's Snow Crash is still an excellent read that threatens to overwhelm the senses.	2003-03-13
US	52928878	R37NJ18QG2ZVGG	0671578634	25118563	The Man Who Sold The Moon	Books	4	10	11	N	N	Space Travel as It Should Have Been	The principal story bears the title of this collection of short and not-so-short Heinlein tales, most of them a part of his \\"Future History\\" timeline.<br />Delos Harriman, an aging business mogul with the dream of traveling into space, makes good his childhood hopes by creating the first moon shot through commercial and private ventures rather than with government or military support.  His pursuit of this dream against opposition on all sides makes for a wonderful tale of legal chicanery, innovation, and genius.  Through commercialization of space, Harriman opens the final frontier to humanity and establishes the basis of many Heinlein stories to come.<br />A later story in the book, \\"Requiem,\\" brings Harriman's tale full-circle as the founder of all space travel finally achieves his personal dream of reaching the moon; legal wrangling and fear of his health had kept him earthbound for decades after the first moon mission.<br />The stories in this book all make up a portion of Heinlein's \\"Future History,\\" but the order they are presented in is not logical.  \\"Blowups Happen\\" and \\"The Roads Must Roll\\" should be among the first tales and \\"Requiem\\" one of the last, but as a timeline for the Future History is included, one can see where the tales are supposed to fit in.<br />Some of the technical details are indeed dated as Heinlein penned many of the stories during the Golden Age of science fiction; he decided upon attempting revisions to \\"Blowups Happen\\" that such changes actually detracted from the stories as continually revising them for new developments was counterproductive.  Read them for what they are and the ideas they contain, not necessarily for the scientific aspects.<br />Readers wishing to see the Future History unfold in their logical order and entirity should consider the book \\"The Past Through Tomorrow,\\" another Heinlein anthology devoted to the stories of that series--but this book is a good place to start.	2003-03-13
US	52928878	R53DS7CN3R0YZ	158297103X	219557233	How to Write Science Fiction & Fantasy	Books	4	51	54	N	N	Useful Guide for Beginners &amp; Intermediate Writers	If you're looking for the ultimate tome and guide that will take you from simply reading science fiction and fantasy to a best-selling writer of it, then this book is not for you.  However, NO book fills that role, nor can it, as writing is something best learned by doing, not following a formula in a book.<br />Card, like most writers, is well aware of that fact and does not take the pretention that his book is a how-to that will have you churning out sci-fi and fantasy like a pro.  However, for those enthusiasts who aren't sure where to begin or what mistakes to avoid, Card's guide is a good, if ill-titled, one; it describes the different types of stories (idea, character, event, etc.), plus offers tips on building a world with consistent and believable rules, what constitutes sci-fi/fantasy, etc.<br />More advanced writers or even rather astute readers may find some of the book's guidance obvious or a matter of common sense, and the book is not the only one an aspiring writer might wish to own (Writer's Market, various plotting, characterization, marketing, etc. books also being invaluable), but it is a good starting point for the average sci-fi enthusiast.	2003-03-13
US	52928878	R2DN0UVKGSINRI	0688139213	821153252	Dracula (Books of Wonder)	Books	5	1	2	N	Y	The Original and Classic Vampire Story	Everyone knows the name \\"Dracula,\\" but the majority have only seen the legendary Transylvanian Count on the silver screen or through pop culture; few indeed have actually read the work that started it all.<br />One cannot claim to be a fan of vampire literature or of Dracula himself without having read Bram Stoker's tremendous work of gothic horror.  Think that Dracula and other vampires can't be out in daylight?  Wrong--they simply have no powers during the day, which you'd know if you read this extraordinary book.<br />Written in epistolary form (that is, as a series of letters and diary entries), the story is presented from the viewpoints of the main characters, from Jonathan Harker to his wife Mina to Dr. van Helsing.  Rather than detracting from the story, this format breaks up what would otherwise be a rather long manuscript into manageable chunks and adds to the historical character of the novel.<br />Modern film interpretations have presented Stoker's story through the eyes of each producer, director, and screenwriter, with nearly all making wholesale changes--Mina Harker, for instance, is NOT the reborn lost love of Count Dracula as Francis Ford Coppola would have us believe.  Many others who have \\"read\\" Dracula have done so through abridged texts that distort the story through omission.  Pick up and read the story that started it all in its intended format... Bram Stoker's Dracula.  You won't regret it.	2003-03-13
US	52928878	R2175ZD6Q5Q858	0441218911	472898047	Expanded Universe	Books	5	38	39	N	N	Alternate Views of Heinlein	For those readers of Heinlein who have limited themselves to his Future History stories, his Lazarus Long saga, or perhaps his early Juveniles, Expanded Universe presents an interesting alternate view of Heinlein's writing including many stories not featured in other anthologies and a number of his nonfiction pieces as well.<br />\\"Solution Unsatisfactory\\" tells of an alternate ending to World War II where the US develops an intensely radioactive dust with selective half-life rather than the atomic bomb; its use on Germany and its parallel discovery by the Soviet Union bring the world into a Cold War many times worse than what the world truly experienced.  In short, the balance of terror doctrine was and will always be a \\"solution unsatisfactory.\\"<br />\\"PRAVDA Means TRUTH\\" is a short nonfiction piece on the dangers of a state-run media and its influence on the lives of citizens, based on true-life experiences Heinlein and his wife had while traveling to Russia at the same time Francis Gary Powers' U2 was brought down.  Similarly, \\"Inside Intourist\\" tells of the Heinlein's experiences with the Soviet tourism agency (through which all travel had to be arranged).  Contrary to some reviewers' comments, Heinlein never condescends upon the people of Russia and its former republics; he merely explains the dangers the people face from their oppressive government.  He in fact often discusses how nicely the actual people of Russia treated him and his wife on their trip.<br />Many other stories and nonfiction pieces (some dated by their survivalist Cold War era themes) are included; another of interest is \\"No Bands Playing, No Flags Flying,\\" which tells the slightly fictionalized tale of courage and TB treatments (which Heinlein himself underwent) in the pre-WW2 Navy.  His survivalist pieces may seem dated or extremist today, yet for the cold war climate (and today's constant threat of terrorism), the message is still clear: those who are ready will survive catastrophes, and those who aren't may very well not.<br />Give this Heinlein anthology a chance; for those already versed in Heinlein's other works, Expanded Universe will offer a fresh look into the mind of one of science fiction's Grand Masters.ose who aren't may very well not.<br />Give this Heinlein anthology a chance; for those already versed in Heinlein's other works, Expanded Universe will offer a fresh look into the mind of one of science fiction's Grand Masters.	2003-03-13
US	52928878	R3EGNAG5FTZR5W	1879505444	219169409	The Screenwriter's Bible: A Complete Guide to Writing, Formatting, and Selling Your Script	Books	5	8	8	N	Y	Outstanding Manual for Aspiring Screenwriters	Of the many \\"bibles\\" published on subjects from gardening to beer drinking, Trottier's Screenwriter's Bible is the most deserving of that lofty designation.<br />In great detail, Trottier covers issues from story ideas to screenplay formatting.  Of particular use is his breakdown of the typical screenplay story structure into definitive events, offering examples from modern movies most readers can easily identify with.  My curse is that now every time I see a film I overlay his structure notes onto the film onscreen, picking out each plot checkpoint like some kind of giant formula--and when I find a movie that simply didn't seem to work for some reason or another, I am usually able to identify where it deviated from that structure and why!<br />If you have aspirations of writing screenplays for the big screen or television, this book is of invaluable reference and educational merit.  Even if you simply want to know more about why good movies \\"work\\" and bad ones fail, this book is a great resource.  Give it a shot!	2003-03-13
US	52928878	RBVDTK19BZTXH	0873644778	667027069	AK47: The Complete Kalashnikov Family Of Assault Rifles	Books	5	11	12	N	Y	Interesting Story of the Most Influential Rifle in History	The AK-47 may not have been the very first \\"assault\\" rifle created to fill the gap between smaller sirearms and largerer machine guns in the military, but it is certainly the most influential and important rifle in the history of the 20th century.  Duncan Long's tale explains the gun's origins, functioning, and its influence on the design and construction of such vaunted modern firearms as the FN-FAL (a weapon used heavily in Europe and by UN forces), the Galil (the Israeli assaut rifle), etc.<br />Is this book a manual on how to care for your Kalashnikov rifle or a catalog of its varied accessories?  No--and it's not meant to be.  Instead, it is a thorough and very readable history of the AK-family, from the AK-47's origins as a successor to the not-so-good SKS to its endurance as one of the best weapons ever designed to its successor the AK-74 and beyond.<br />If you have an interest in this fine firearm, please give Long's book a read--you'll enjoy it.	2003-03-13
US	52928878	R3MB2GO4K4MZ1I	157380200X	806645948	Insiders' Guide to the Twin Cities, 3rd (Insiders' Guide Series)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Absolutely the Best Twin Cities Guide	Last summer, I traveled to the Twin Cities to see my Twins play at the Metrodome for the first time (having only caught road games in the past).  Taking a three day weekend from work, I wanted to take advatntage of being in the Minneapolis-St. Paul area for more than just a couple of baseball games, and boy did this guide help!<br />I browsed over a couple of guides in the local bookstore before settling on the Insider's Guide.  The information inside was as up to date as could be expected, and using it and a few web sites, I was able to work in two baseball games, the obligatory trip to the Mall of America, a Twins autograph session, trips to the Science Museum of Minnesota (to see the Questionable Medical Devices exhibit), a trip down the part of town featured in the Mary Tyler Moore show, and a quick tour of the Wabasha Street Caves, formerly the hideout of gangsters and the scene of a shootout featured on a History Channel program--all in less than 72 hours!<br />I even located restaurants near the attractions I wanted to see that served the kinds of food I was interested in--Japanese and Italian at the time--without any difficulty.<br />Take it from the Insiders when you make your trip to these wonderful cities in the upper Midwest.  Minnesota is a hidden treasure that few in the US make it their goal to see--I went for baseball, and came back quite impressed, largely thanks to the Insider's Guide's information.	2003-03-12
US	52928878	RSO18JJDBLE9	0767905288	579302723	The O'Reilly Factor: The Good, the Bad, and the Completely Ridiculous in American Life	Books	4	5	7	N	Y	Bill O'Reilly Hates Everybody Equally &amp; Tells It Like It Is	Outspoken would be the best single word used to describe political commentator Bill O'Reilly.  After having spent years in journalism, Bill has become the most popular commentator on television, outdrawing Phil Donnahue to the point of the latter's show being cancelled and offering a refreshing, much more balanced opinion than pundits like Michael Moore or Rush Limbaugh.  This book, O'Reilly's first, captures the essence of his style on television and the radio quite nicely.<br />O'Reilly seems to hate conservatives and liberals alike, defying those who would try to neatly categorize him, and his commentary runs the gamut from foreign relations to immigration to social mores--upon all of which Bill presents his unabashed opinions.  You may not always agree with Mr. O'Reilly, but you cannot deny that he tells it like it is and tolerates no degree of politicizing, ideology, or spin in his presence.<br />Give Bill O'Reilly a try; he's a much more refreshing voice in modern political commentary than the tired old windbags like Rush or Michael Moore.	2003-03-12
US	52928878	R30AZ57J8QSQA8	1878923110	147372034	The Wild Palms Reader	Books	3	15	22	N	Y	An overwhelming sensory experience	Much like the television miniseries, the Wild Palms Reader overwhelms the senses upon first review; the material contained within is dense, fragmented, and complex and requires multiple readings to &quot;sink in.&quot;<br />Readers looking for more of a true companion to the miniseries offering additional background information about the characters and backstory / history leading up to the events of 2007-08 featured in the revolutionary miniseries may wish to look elsewhere.  Some such information is indeed tucked into the book, though due to the nature of presentation the reader will need to take multiple approaches to locate, digest, and grasp it.  However, if you are looking for a sourcebook offering snippets and slivers of the disturbing world of the future presented by Wild Palms that captures the inapproachable essence of the series itself, this book is for you!	2003-02-24
US	52928878	R117TQTRAERP8A	0671411209	363981016	The City in the Stars (The Tom Swift Series #1)	Books	5	12	12	N	N	Great place for young boys to discover science fiction	This particular incarnation of the Tom Swift series is a great place for young boys to discover science fiction.  The stories are entertaining and do a good job of holding one's attention, plus the author attempts (with varied success) to weave in actual science here and there.  I say the books are good for young boys because the protagonist is of course Tom Swift, and the format the adventure-story favored by many young boys, but the character Anita does offer a strong (but almost tomboyish) female role as well.<br />In this story--the first in the series--Tom's spacecraft has an engine accident.  When similar problems plague an engine being developed by Tom's father's company for an upcoming mission to Jupiter, Tom must discover who is out to sabotage Swift Enterprises before their actions lead to thousands of deaths.	2001-11-13
US	52928878	R3U79IZ9O07R2U	0879511222	76568656	Jane's Adventures in and out of the Book	Books	5	4	4	N	N	A splendid fantasy suited for youngsters	Who hasn't dreamed of stepping out of the boring reality of everyday life and into some wonderful fantasy world?  In this delightful tale by Jonathan Gathorne-Hardy, that's exactly what young Jane Charlington does when she finds an enormous book in a supposedly haunted wing of her family's castle.<br />I read this book around age ten when my grandmother gave it to my sister for Christmas, finishing it in a couple of hours.  My normal fare at that age was Tom Swift, and the presence of a female protagonist offered a breath of fresh air into the world of fantasy and adventure I lived in at the time.  I highly recommend this book for both young boys and girls alike--there's adventure for all inside the magical book within this story.	2001-04-03
US	52928878	R1Q2TDBA7GFJV	0195580613	294487014	The World Around the Corner	Books	4	3	3	N	N	The World Around the Corner	There's a world waiting just around the corner, a world of dragons and young princesses chosen to battle them, if only you could see it.  Through magical glasses she finds at a local junk shop, the protagonist learns of the Moon Girl's quest to fight off the dragon to save the world around the corner.<br />Young (pre-teen) girls will love this tale, though there's nary a drop of romance for older readers.  Young boys might enjoy it as well for exactly that reason!	2001-04-03
