US	52929488	R1N2AT7SWWH2PB	0595249116	850223118	In the Army of Marcus Batallius	Books	1	7	8	N	N	Very disappointing......	I admire David Ross for attempting to write a book about the Roman legions and their battles with the Germans under Marcus Aurelius. It is a time and era that was fascinating and I'd love to read a great novel about the period, and that was why I bought this book in the first place. However, sadly, this is not a great book or even a good book. This first effort by Mr. Ross falls completely flat. It reads almost like the scene notes in a movie script, maybe indicative of his theatre background. I hate to sound like a cad and disparage someone's writing skills, particularly when I could probably do no better, but then again I did spend twenty dollars to get this book hoping for a wonderful read. So I guess it falls to me to have to write this first review, and much as I hate having to do so, I have to warn other readers off.<br /><br />This book has no character development, no plotting, no atmosphere, poor dialogue and feels extremely disjointed. In fact, it feels like there must be chunks of writing missing on every page as Ross fails to clarify, edify, entertain or explain much. At best this is a rough draft of a novel that Ross with a few years of writing development and an excellent and patient editor might turn into something readable. In it's current state however it is not readable and I had to discard it after 40 pages. I honestly wish I could say something nice about the book, but this one needs a whole lot more work than has been done so far. I've written over a hundred reviews here on Amazon and this is first one I've assigned only one star to. My advice is to save your money on this one and go read Colleen McCullough's Rome series, or George Shipway's Imperial Governor, or Simon Scarrow's series. These are all unbelievably good reads.	2005-08-31
US	52929488	R31N20KDTH948E	0765311046	153276885	Tyrannosaur Canyon	Books	4	111	122	N	N	An electrifying race against the odds!!!!	This new adventure from Douglas Preston, set against the backdrop of the remote American Southwest canyon country, is an enthralling bit of story-telling from a master of the genre. Tyrannosaur Canyon is an odd mix. The story is a little implausible and a bit over the top, but that doesn't detract much from the fact that it is fun and addicitively readable. While it lacks any gritty realism, that's true of most rip-snorting good adventure yarns from Treasure Island on. As with all good adventure novels this one excels in pacing, tension, and accelerating story-line. Frankly, the book grabbed me from the opening page and didn't let go until I had finished. In literary terms this one is a roller-coaster thrill ride at a theme park as opposed to an introspective day of art appreciation at the museum. Gripping and exciting, I believe the book will please most followers of the author and also delight new readers.<br /><br />In this story we are introduced again to Tom Broadbent (from the Codex) as he stumbles across a dying, gunshot man. Before the man dies, he passes on a dark secret within a notebook of numbers and importunes Broadbent to see the notebook returned to his daughter. This task, difficult because Broadbent does not know who the man is, soon involves great personal peril to both Broadbent and his wife as people begin to try killing them. Lots of people actually. An entire cast of scary bad guys, from crazed ex-cons, soldiers, sociopathic creepy scientists, government agents, and others come crawling out of the woodwork looking to end the Broadbents in various terminally nasty ways, for the notebook itself turns out to be something of a treasure map. The Broadbents find help in some unlikely places and people, and make many improbable escapes as they race to determine what secrets the notebook holds and what to do when the secrets are revealed. This is a lively and fun adventure trip with a writing style that inexorably sucks you from page to page like a verbal riptide. It's tense, action-packed, crammed with scientific research, and really I liked it.tide. It's tense, action-packed, crammed with scientific research, and really I liked it.	2005-08-23
US	52929488	R1Q4CS9GDSQ03G	1569474044	772381760	Door to Bitterness	Books	5	10	11	N	N	One of my favorite series going-	I really like Martin Limon's series and his irrascible protagonists George Sueno and Ernie Bascom. Door into Bitterness is the fourth installment and I have been waiting impatiently for six years for this novel. Limon is an extremely talented writer who has not received the attention and acclaim he deserves; his writing has such presence and conveys such atmosphere you feel transported to whatever time and place he takes you, in this instance, 1970's Korea.<br /><br />George and Ernie are military investigators nominally tasked with keeping an eye on the free-wheeling black market barter economy outside Korean army bases and insuring US servicemen neither get in too much trouble nor cause too much trouble. Their intrepretation of their role is a lot less rigid than probably what their supervisors had in mind and so they often turn a blind eye to much of what they are supposed to police, nor are they are above having a good time in the adult wonderland themselves. Their attitude to policing vice outside the army bases is simply a very realistic assessment on their part because there is only so much you can do when a country is flooded with 19 year old soldiers with big paychecks and the local populace is only too accomodating in finding compelling and interesting means to separate them from their money. George and Ernie, while not above availing themselves of a good time, do take their job seriously though. They may not try to fight human nature if a seviceman wants to barter cigarettes for sex, but they do take violent exception to, in this novel, robbery, kidnapping and murder. Especially when they are on the receiving end of part of the mayhem. Thieves drug, beat and abandon George but not before absconding with his badge and gun. They then use these items to commit a robbery/murder. Facing a courts martial for losing his service sidearm, the commanding general gives our team one chance to find the weapon and capture the criminals before facing the consequences.<br /><br />I whole-heartedly recommend this book. On the surface, it is a fairly straight forward investigation told from George's point-of-view. Underneath is a breathtakingly beautiful work of poignancy, despair, hope, alieness, and redemption. Limon is a masterful writer because he doesn't tell you things, he lets you learn things only through the narrow lens of perception; both yours and that of the characters. It is through dialogue, action, and reaction that his story unfolds not the simple, clumsy narrative descriptions most writers resort to. We experience Korea through the eyes of an anguished young hispanic orphan who has become a military investigator, and the story unfolds like the petals of a lotus. This book, Door into Bitterness, is aptly named for there is much that is heart-rending in this novel, but I feel the work still signals a return, after a long hiatus, to a less bleak world view for George and Ernie. Buddha's Money, the third novel, was almost too much to endure, except for the magical qualities of the gifted writing. My take? I love this book, I love the series, Limon is a master fo his craft, and I sincerely hope I do not have to wait another six years for the next book.ole-heartedly recommend this book. On the surface, it is a fairly straight forward investigation told from George's point-of-view. Underneath is a breathtakingly beautiful work of poignancy, despair, hope, alieness, and redemption. Limon is a masterful writer because he doesn't tell you things, he lets you learn things only through the narrow lens of perception; both yours and that of the characters. It is through dialogue, action, and reaction that his story unfolds not the simple, clumsy narrative descriptions most writers resort to. We experience Korea through the eyes of an anguished young hispanic orphan who has become a military investigator, and the story unfolds like the petals of a lotus. This book, Door into Bitterness, is aptly named for there is much that is heart-rending in this novel, but I feel the work still signals a return, after a long hiatus, to a less bleak world view for George and Ernie. Buddha's Money, the third novel, was almost too much to endure, except for the magical qualities of the gifted writing. My take? I love this book, I love the series, Limon is a master fo his craft, and I sincerely hope I do not have to wait another six years for the next book.	2005-08-18
US	52929488	R18QQZILT41UNB	0140621318	390417601	Prisoner of Zenda, the (Penguin Popular Classics) (English and Spanish Edition)	Books	5	7	7	N	N	The book that started it all for me!!!	I have been an avaricious reader since I was in the second grade; a bout of mononucleosis and the discovery of the Hardy boys in the third grade sealed the deal for me, and I have been reading furiously ever since. This book, perhaps more than any other I had read in those formative years, thrilled me to my bones and forged me into a lifelong committed adventure reader. They say you never forget your first love, and I have never forgotten the Prisoner of Zenda. It has EVERYTHING a young boy could desire in an adventure book: travel to a distant country, nefarious villains, royalty, beautiful damsels, dashing military officers accoutered with flashing sabers and charging steeds, castles, kidnappings, escapes, swashbuckling....my knees buckle a little bit just thinking about it again. This book literally imprinted me for everything I have read in the genre since then and stirred in me a desire for travel and adventure that has led me all around the globe several times in my life. I do not think it is a stretch to say that this book may very well have changed the course of my life, nudging me into certain dreams and hopes that I have happily chased ever since. I've ordered it today, desiring to read it again and compare it to my 8 year old memories of it, but, more importantly, I also wish to present it to my son and hope it opens the world to him the same way it did for me.	2005-08-17
US	52929488	R1AQPR270Q3TF5	014043755X	199196338	The Prisoner of Zenda and Rupert of Hentzau (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	14	14	N	N	The book that started it all for me!!!	I have been an voracious reader since I was in the second grade; a bout of mononucleosis and the discovery of the Hardy boys in the third grade sealed the deal for me, and I have been reading furiously ever since. This book, perhaps more than any other I had read in those formative years, thrilled me to my bones and forged me into a lifelong committed adventure reader. They say you never forget your first love, and I have never forgotten the Prisoner of Zenda. It has EVERYTHING a young boy could desire in an adventure book: travel to a distant country, nefarious villains, royalty, beautiful damsels, dashing military officers accoutered with flashing sabers and charging steeds, castles, kidnappings, escapes, swashbuckling....my knees buckle a little bit just thinking about it again. This book literally imprinted me for everything I have read in the genre since then and stirred in me a desire for travel and adventure that has led me all around the globe several times in my life. I do not think it is a stretch to say that this book may very well have changed the course of my life, nudging me into certain dreams and hopes that I have happily chased ever since. I've ordered it today, desiring to read it again and compare it to my 8 year old memories of it, but, more importantly, I also wish to present it to my son and hope it opens the world to him the same way it did for me.	2005-08-17
US	52929488	R1Q00UC2UCVVZK	0743275071	473383012	Pirate (Alexander Hawke, Book 3)	Books	4	29	40	N	N	Another great outing with Hawke!	This book is another roller-coaster thriller ride from Bell featuring his protagonist Alex Hawke, who again must contend with crazed madmen hell-bent on world conquest and destruction. Only this time the bad guys are the French!! What fun! The Chinese and French team up in a nefarious plot to assume world dominion backed by a nuclear power-play, and Hawke must race against the clock, face impossible odds, and battle through with the help of his old and trustworthy friends. This is a fun read with tons of action as our espionage hero Hawke takes it to those smarmy French and gives them \\"what for\\". Have fun, I sure did! Nothing quite like a vicarious pounding on the French to make you feel better about your day.<br /><br />Bell's prose is taunt and experienced in this his third outing and his character development is becoming convincing and enjoyable. The pace and writing crackle with Bell's trademark electricity and he deftly ratchets up the tension and odds in each successive scene leading to the spectacular denouement. The settings are exotic, the characters urbane and adventurous, the villains deeply satisfying, and the book a completely enjoyable addition to the action/espionage thriller genre.	2005-08-16
US	52929488	R3QPSMG4MV7JV3	0345284569	342057527	The Monitor, the Miners and the Shree	Books	4	6	7	N	N	Read this a long time ago...	I read this story a very long time ago as a young teenager, probably twenty five years ago now, so I may not be the most qualified person to review this one; but as no one else has, I wanted to say that I remember reading it and enjoying it. SInce I don't normally remember books from that long ago both in time and in development, that in itself is enough for me to note that this was a good book, enjoyable, and distinctly memorable. It was a good first or second outing for this author dealing with the \\"let's explore and utilize this new planet\\" theme and integrating the problems and clashes of culture between the indigenous species and the arriving humans. I recommend this one, especially for younger readers who enjoy science fiction.	2005-08-16
US	52929488	R6WGCMMGUDO7X	0755107098	199196338	The Prisoner Of Zenda (Ruritania)	Books	5	42	45	N	N	The book that started it all!!!	I have been an avaricious reader since I was in the second grade; a bout of mononucleosis and the discovery of the Hardy boys in the third grade sealed the deal for me, and I have been reading furiously ever since. This book, perhaps more than any other I had read in those formative years, thrilled me to my bones and forged me into a lifelong committed adventure reader. They say you never forget your first love, and I have never forgotten the Prisoner of Zenda. It has EVERYTHING a young boy could desire in an adventure book: travel to a distant country, nefarious villains, royalty, beautiful damsels, dashing military officers accoutered with flashing sabers and charging steeds, castles, kidnappings, escapes, swashbuckling....my knees buckle a little bit just thinking about it again. This book literally imprinted me for everything I have read in the genre since then and stirred in me a desire for travel and adventure that has led me all around the globe several times in my life. I do not think it is a stretch to say that this book may very well have changed the course of my life, nudging me into certain dreams and hopes that I have happily chased ever since. I've ordered it today, desiring to read it again and compare it to my 8 year old memories of it, but, more importantly, I also wish to present it to my son and hope it opens the world to him the same way it did for me.	2005-08-16
US	52929488	RDX4L3U4RE0N	0385337256	218248142	Suicide Squeeze	Books	4	6	7	N	N	Zany crime caper	In Gischler's third outing, Suicide Squeeze, we are treated to a Florida coast caper involving a baseball card autographed by three famous people, a Japanese billionaire who wants it, a down on his luck repo-man, Connor Samson, who finds it and an entire host of criminals, ex-wives, bar-flops, crazed yakuza, and comic book nerds who get caught up in the action.<br /><br />Reading a Gischler book is kind of like watching pachinko, the Japanese game with all the ball bearings. His characters, just like the ball-bearings in the game, zoom around all over the place in a zany, mad-cap pace and outrageously bounce against each other causing all sorts of laughs and deviltry. On the surface Gischler's writing is simple, direct, and funny and the character's he tends to populate his novels with are generally broke, lower class, confused, and socially challenged. This is somewhat of a pleasant relief from all the novels who use hyper-intelligent, daring, perfect physical specimens as their protagonists. Not so here. These characters get drunk, puke, have hangovers, get lost, write bad checks, and do lots of things they shouldn't morally.....and these are just the good guys. These characters can be pretty funny as they bumble their inept way through the story.<br /><br />On the other hand, while his books on the surface read as comedies, by the end of them you realize you have read a tragedy of Shakespearean scope....because nearly everyone is dead. This odd blend of less then perfect characters, white trash comic relief, small hopes and selfish viewpoints, neuroses, poverty, spite, cosmic bad luck, and high body counts work for Gischler in this book and I enjoyed the read. I truly like his first novel, Gun Monkeys, but didn't much care for his second, Pistol Poets. This book fell somewhere in between but I  still recommend it because I really did like it. My reservation with Gischler is that, in using anti-heroes as protagonists, sometimes they are so unlikable that you can't enjoy the read. Books go down smoother if there is a character that you can identify with and like. Gischler does a better job in this novel of achieving that than he did in his last.an't enjoy the read. Books go down smoother if there is a character that you can identify with and like. Gischler does a better job in this novel of achieving that than he did in his last.	2005-08-15
US	52929488	R2Y28WISBXXOPD	1596060204	526765016	Agent to the Stars	Books	4	24	25	N	N	A pleasurable, light & funny read	This is a light-hearted and funny romp in the Heinlein mode that Mr. Scalzi does so well. If you missed \\"old Man's War\\", go ahead and order that one right away too; it's a classic and compulsive revisit to the golden age of Sci-fi from the fifties that you'll absolutely enjoy.<br /><br />In this novel, Biz Agent to the Stars, humor and laughs abound (heck, even the title is a punny double entendre) as Thomas Stein, a Hollywood agent fresh off a huge success and feeling good about his bourgeoning career, suddenly is given the job of PR director for a race of stinky and singularly unattractive aliens. I won't give away the story elements but you can imagine the challenge of trying to make aliens that essentially communicate by farting, and that look gross to boot, into lovable characters. Thomas's challenges and adventures in his quest to put a positive spin on his new clients are hilariously fun to follow and the laughs abound.<br /><br />This is an excellent, light, and funny read, devourable in one sitting, and something great to pick up and have a go at when you're in the mood for feel-good fare that will make you smile. Scalzi is an author to watch and I am struck by how much he reminds me of Heinlein, but I am almost afraid to make the comparison lest some people dismiss him as a knock-off. Scalzi is a master in his own right. His books convey his own voice, ideas and vision very clearly all while clearly paying homage to the masters who started it all.	2005-08-11
US	52929488	RV87IGI342GCG	0425204375	755623982	Lawrence Sanders McNally's Bluff (Archy McNally)	Books	5	9	12	N	N	McNally charms his way through again	Archie McNally is a lovable and charming rogue and these books are so much fun! Archie, the son noted in the eponymous Palm Beach McNally & Son Law Firm, is not actually an attorney since he got the boot from law school for his numerous shenanigans there. Now an aging thirty something playboy, Archie sort of serves as a good-natured investigator for his father's law firm. McNally is a dilenttante who enjoys chasing women, epicurean dining, his friends, his club, excellent vocabularly, creatively doctoring his expense reports, and occasionally actually investigating things. Archie hobnobs with the rich and famous along the Gold Coast, investigates their foibles, misdeeds, and sometimes even their murders, all in a sort of happy complacence with his good fortune in life that is only sometimes slightly fractured by the raucous catastrophes he occasionally, yet unwittingly, creates about himself.<br /><br />This series of books is a load of fun and I've been a faithful reader for years. Archie is one of the truly distinct and pleasurable characters in modern fiction and it is always a joy to slip into Archie time. Mr. Sanders started this series and since his death Vince Lardo, who helped on the original novels, has continued them without any noticeable flickers of discontinuity. So help yourself to a dose of Archie McNally and let him make all things right with your world, for a few hours at least.	2005-08-11
US	52929488	R3FXB55BDOF8HH	1931520135	742697875	Mothers and Other Monsters	Books	4	20	23	N	N	A balanced and pleasing collection of short stories	Maureen McHugh has given me some really nice and thought-provoking reads in her novels over the past few years and I was pleased to see this collection of of short stories from her, most of which I had missed. I always approach short story collections with some trepidation.....when the stories are not on par with the writer's novels there is inevitable disappointment, and if the short stories are extremely good then there is still disappointment because the pleasure in reading them is so fleeting! However, every so often, there comes along a collection that does not fall into either trap and provides a haunting and lovely series of well-crafted little gems that are perfect in their own right. This is one such collection. I heartily recommend this one to anyone who has read McHugh in the past and enjoyed her works, and I invite those who haven't sampled her novels to test her writing first with these short stories. You won't be diasappointed with this one!	2005-08-01
US	52929488	R1532GBB93FWZ9	0345287800	784403894	Deadly Silents (A Del Rey Books)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	A detective story meets alien culture	I read this story a very long time ago as a young teenager, probably twenty five years ago now, so I may not be the most qualified person to review this one; but as no one else has I will give it a shot. I very much enjoyed this story when I first read it, enough that I even re-read it a few years later, something I seldom ever do. This one is about a murder on a planet where humans and aliens co-exist, and not just any murder: it looks as if the murder may have been done by an alien for inexplicable reasons. Sort of an early precursor to the I, Robot film I guess. I wish I could give more details; I would whole-heartedly recommend this one to any teen-aged reader; it is a good story, and I remember it fondly still a quarter century later. It really stands out in my memory. For adults, I imagine it is still a good story and might be worth tracking down.	2005-07-31
US	52929488	R2DNFHQ8Q1UHIQ	0312347308	717624754	Cold Hit: A Shane Scully Novel (Shane Scully Novels)	Books	5	24	27	N	N	Another gripping Shane Scully adventure	I really, really like this book! Moreover there's a LOT to like about this new Shane Scully outing from Mr. Cannell, and at the top of the list is that these novels keep getting better both in art, depth, complexity, and subject matter. It is worth noting that Mr. Cannell is continually improving his already noteworthy writing abilities, particularly when it seems that, sadly, many writers seem content to let past successes prop up less than worthy current releases. Mr. Cannell rises above formulaic repetition and simple rehashing of his past novels by writing with an intelligence and fierce electricity that is refreshing, but also by working in new and relevant ideas and then following these ideas to their natural conclusions. No easy task, but Cannell transcends past efforts with an easy panache and grace.<br /><br />Scully, a LAPD detective, is maturing into a very interesting and realistic character doing his best in a constantly evolving world of red tape, personal conflicts, bureacratic indifference and short-sightedness, and now, really scary federal powers of investigation that can neutralize local law enforcement and even persecute such local representation. This novel works on all levels; it is gritty and tough, with writing that paints setting and ambiance using words just as a master artist would lovingly brush details on canvas in oil, adds in a big dash of action, moral and ethical dilemmas, plenty of dead bodies, and helps us realize, map, and confront the dark side of the sweeping new federal powers enacted after 9/11. The misuse of these powers can be truly frightening as illustrated in this book, calling to mind harrowing recollections of the Gestapo or Orwell's 1984. This book, far more than most of the genre, will make you sit back and think, then pause, then think even harder. Go grab this one as soon as you can; this novel deserves some buzz, both own it's own merits and for the scary and thought-provoking abuse of power that it details. Then (sigh) we'll all just have to sit around and wait for the next installment in the Scully series.(sigh) we'll all just have to sit around and wait for the next installment in the Scully series.	2005-07-31
US	52929488	R1C4UIMYXD9GSC	0553576100	835301155	Buddha's Money	Books	4	11	11	N	N	George and Ernie fight evil Buddhists	I really, really like Martin Limon's series and his irrascible protagonists George Sueno and Ernie Bascom. Limon is an extremely talented writer who has not received the attention and acclaim he deserves; he can transport you to a time and place (in this instance, 1970's Korea) and make you feel instantly at home. George and Ernie are military investigators nominally tasked with keeping an eye on the free-wheeling black-market and barter economy outside Korean army bases and insuring US servicemen neither get in too much trouble nor cause too much trouble. Their intrepretation of their role is a lot less rigid than probably what their supervisors had in mind and so they often turn a blind eye to much of what they are supposed to police, nor are they are not above having a good time in the adult wonderland themselves. Their attitude to policing vice outside the army bases is simply a very realistic assessment on their part because there is only so much you can do when a country is flooded with 19 year old soldiers with big paychecks and the local populace is only too accomodating in finding compelling and interesting means to separate them from their money. George and Ernie, two fun rogues if there ever were any, do take their job seriously though. They may not try to fight human nature if a seviceman wants to barter cigarettes for sex, but they do take violent exception to kidnapping the daughters of US servicemen and beating, torturing, and raping the local Koreans.<br /><br />Our villains in this outing are evil Mongol Buddhists (isn't an evil Buddhist an oxymoron somehow?) and George and Ernie blow out all the stops in this action-packed adventure as they track down and come to grips with their adversaries. I really enjoyed this book and adventuring again with the boys but..........this book is also fairly dark, much darker than the previous two novels. There are some scenes in this book that are very disturbing involving torture and rape of women and children that I found very hard to deal with. George and Ernie also find it hard to deal with these events and very naturally lose much of their light-hearted banter and sense of fun in the face of events. This is actually a grim and disturbing book and while I would recommend the first two novels whole-heartedly I am not sure I would recommend this one to anyone, not because it is a bad book; it definitely is not, it is actually an excellent book. But there should be a big red sticker on this one though that warns of some very disturbing scenes. Granted, half of what is published now is chock full of serial killers and brutal, violent, senseless tortures and gratuitous, gore-spattered homicide of minors. It's not really my cup of tea though and I didn't expect it when picking up this book. I didn't even expect it even while I was reading this book until it actually happened. The acts I am talking about are not gratuitous here, they do propel the plot forward but even so I was deeply bothered. So I give this one four stars. I enjoyed the novel, but am still troubled by events in it, leaving me conflicted. If you love George and Ernie, or are not bothered by violence to women and children, you'll enjoy this novel. Otherwise just be aware that I am putting a danger sticker on what is otherwise a very good book.that I found very hard to deal with. George and Ernie also find it hard to deal with these events and very naturally lose much of their light-hearted banter and sense of fun in the face of events. This is actually a grim and disturbing book and while I would recommend the first two novels whole-heartedly I am not sure I would recommend this one to anyone, not because it is a bad book; it definitely is not, it is actually an excellent book. But there should be a big red sticker on this one though that warns of some very disturbing scenes. Granted, half of what is published now is chock full of serial killers and brutal, violent, senseless tortures and gratuitous, gore-spattered homicide of minors. It's not really my cup of tea though and I didn't expect it when picking up this book. I didn't even expect it even while I was reading this book until it actually happened. The acts I am talking about are not gratuitous here, they do propel the plot forward but even so I was deeply bothered. So I give this one four stars. I enjoyed the novel, but am still troubled by events in it, leaving me conflicted. If you love George and Ernie, or are not bothered by violence to women and children, you'll enjoy this novel. Otherwise just be aware that I am putting a danger sticker on what is otherwise a very good book.	2005-07-24
US	52929488	R1LWJMUH6LX439	0553104438	866900985	Slicky Boys	Books	5	15	15	N	N	Action and excitement in blackmarket Korea	This is an excellent sequel and follow-up to Jade Lady Burning, Mr. Limon's first novel, and I was thrilled to get to ride again with two of my favorite rogues, military investigators George Sueno and Ernie Bascom. I love these two characters and I love Mr. Limon's novels! This sequel has even more action than the original and is a fun and exciting romp through the seedy world that springs up around military bases in Asia, indeed military bases since time immemorial everywhere. Having been stationed in Asia in the Eighties myself as a Naval officer and having spent time in Korea, I can attest to the absolute and amazing authenticity of Mr. Limon's writing. I am in awe of how well he has captured and portrayed that unique world with it's complicated bubble economy of vice, innocence, predation, humor, money, face, need and desire. In this outing our protagonists Ernie and George are set up by a prostitute and the result is a murdered British soldier; Ernie and George have to work with the local Black Marketeers, the Slicky Boys, to unravel the crime.<br /><br />For those of you who have served overseas, grab this book immediately, for you will absolutely love it. It lovingly and accurately paints with words a world that most us would have terrible trouble untangling, let alone articulating, in our own minds. For those of you who haven't been able to serve or travel overseas, this is an excellent book with, without a doubt, the best depictation of the Korean/American military economy ever written. It's simply an amazing portait and haunting in it's evocative power. Yet it's also a lot of fun, a little more light-hearted than Limon's other novels, and I would unreservedly recommend it to anyone. But please remember the book deals with an extremely foreign culture and our culture's attempt to interact successfully with it; there is as much Korean social mores and value here as American. This is deliberate, and is meant to broaden horizons and appreciation of an extremely complex setting.<br /><br />I still find it mind-boggling that this author seems to have been so completely overlooked. I also, despite not often speaking about other's reviews, wonder why the publishing world's reviews are so tepid. I have had problems with the reviews from Publisher's Weekly and Library Journal; they do not do this writer justice and I am puzzled by this. The books are exceedingly well-crafted, the characters finely detailed, believable, and convincingly human, the atmosphere and setting as expertly drawn as any writer has accomplished. To put my concerns in context, I have read thousands of books and thousands of reviews, and I have never often though, \\"wow, that review is off the mark!\\"<br /><br />I can't help but think that perhaps the subject matter is offensive to some and that colors their perception of Mr. Limon's accomplishments as a writer. The book does cover the military, the personal excesses found within any military organization, prostitution, black marketeers and many other politically incorrect and abhorrent issues. It also, beneath it's surface story, does so with a tenderness and understanding that I find remarkable and commendable. So I will take a rare public stand here and say I take exception to some of the  Editorial Reviews. Their remarks are not off mark often, but they are in this case.  This is an excellent book, an excellent writer, and I sincerely believe that you will completely enjoy yourself with this one.x setting.    I still find it mind-boggling that this author seems to have been so completely overlooked. I also, despite not often speaking about other's reviews, wonder why the publishing world's reviews are so tepid. I have had problems with the reviews from Publisher's Weekly and Library Journal; they do not do this writer justice and I am puzzled by this. The books are exceedingly well-crafted, the characters finely detailed, believable, and convincingly human, the atmosphere and setting as expertly drawn as any writer has accomplished. To put my concerns in context, I have read thousands of books and thousands of reviews, and I have never often though, \\"wow, that review is off the mark!\\"    I can't help but think that perhaps the subject matter is offensive to some and that colors their perception of Mr. Limon's accomplishments as a writer. The book does cover the military, the personal excesses found within any military organization, prostitution, black marketeers and many other politically incorrect and abhorrent issues. It also, beneath it's surface story, does so with a tenderness and understanding that I find remarkable and commendable. So I will take a rare public stand here and say I take exception to some of the  Editorial Reviews. Their remarks are not off mark often, but they are in this case.  This is an excellent book, an excellent writer, and I sincerely believe that you will completely enjoy yourself with this one.	2005-07-23
US	52929488	R3799Y8A9UKUZB	1569470200	585156788	Jade Lady Burning	Books	5	27	28	N	N	Don't believe Publisher's Weekly.....this is far better than they indicate	This is a simply fantastic novel!! Noir, dark and darkly humorous, gritty, seedy, pulsing with human vice and need, and chock-full of knuckle-dusting action, gun fire, and labyrinthine mystery. The story line revolves about two men, military detectives, investigating the steaming underbelly of the local black market Korean/American military economy and the concurrent trade in prostitution, despite the endearing fact that they themselves are active and daily participants in the party. The characterization in Jade Lady Burning is superb, authenticity in setting and detail perfect, the action is exciting, the characters memorable, the story and plot excellent.<br /><br />To this day I find it mind-boggling that this book and author have been so completely overlooked by both the publishing mainstream and the general readership. There are few delights more enjoyable that stumbling upon a book and author you have never heard of that is so wonderful, enjoyable, and captivating that it catapaults straight to your all-time favorite lists. Finding and reading this book was a revelatory experience like waking in July to Christmas morning, or finding an overlooked bottle of stupendous, world-class wine and buying the entire stock of six cases for $12 a bottle (Yamhill Valley 96 Pinot in case anyone is interested.) Yet books like this should be shared and savored by all.<br /><br />Despite the puzzling lack of popular acclaim, this book is easily one of my favorite reads. I found it in the public library seven or eight years ago, devoured it, and then went on to read his next two as quickly as possible. What a thrill ride! Since then I have been disappointed that the author, Martin Limon, has not published any other novels....so imagine my surprise and delight when I see on Amazon today that he has a new one arriving in a month. I just pre-ordered mine. With the advent of his new novel perhaps Mr. Limon will win the attention and readership he deserves. I hope so, and to that end, I share with my fellow readers why this book is so darn good and why, if his upcoming book is in the same vein, that it deserves to be on the bestseller lists.<br /><br />In Jade Lady Burning Mr. Limon introduces us to his protagonists, Ernie Bascom and George Sueno, military investigators stationed in Korea in the seventies. I am a sucker for complex characters that are vividly brought to life, who struggle through thorny and complicated moral situations, and who grow throughout the novel as their basic humanity is challenged by the assaults life throws at them. Mr. Limon delivers in spades with these two likeable rogues in the characterization department. Even more impressive is his command of setting and atmosphere. His depictation of Korea, a byzantine and complicated place with differing social mores, expectations, values, and outlooks, is spot on and he captures perfectly the soupy, complicated moral morass than can come about when two cultures meet and try to function side-by-side.....particularly when one of the cultures is represented by an occupying military force, with it's own needs, vices, social structures, and attitudes.<br /><br />The Publishers Weekly review dings this book for a \\"strangely, leisurely pace\\"; I never criticize other reviews because I know how hard they are to write, but I believe this remark completely undermines this novel and is representative itself of those differing cultural outlooks I referenced above. This book is set in Asia, and in Korea in particular. Life moves at a more languid pace there than in America and matters of custom are sometimes more important than matters of truth, which Ernie and George themselves so often discover in the course of their investigation. The fact that the author could make the novel move at a Korean pace was a brilliant bit of writing that makes the setting absolutely believable. I actually feel like I am back in Korea as I read his novels; his spare yet hauntingly evocative writing is thatgood. Despite the ding, my belief is the Korean characters should act like Koreans, and more over, Ernie and George should act like what they are, two soldiers stationed in Asia, with access to a Disneyland of earthly delights but yet with some nominal duty to police it so that while the army can blow off steam, nothing gets out of control. Mr. Limon does exactly that and it is the friction and differences between the cultures that drive this novel so convincingly and make it so enjoyable. Order this book folks and treat yourself to a rare read.ief is the Korean characters should act like Koreans, and more over, Ernie and George should act like what they are, two soldiers stationed in Asia, with access to a Disneyland of earthly delights but yet with some nominal duty to police it so that while the army can blow off steam, nothing gets out of control. Mr. Limon does exactly that and it is the friction and differences between the cultures that drive this novel so convincingly and make it so enjoyable. Order this book folks and treat yourself to a rare read.	2005-07-23
US	52929488	R2853N5HSFE7DT	1890768502	15356821	Bullets	Books	3	1	2	N	N	A madcap farce	Mr. Brewer is not trying to write literature in this novel, nor indeed anything the slightest bit serious. He has instead given free reign to his comic impulses to create a fun, light, madcap farce involving an assassination in Las Vegas, and the crazy, off-kilter, and wacky people that get swept up into the action. This is meant as pure comedy, and reminds me of those 1950 TV sit-coms like Gomer Pyle in its feel and mood. It's a simple light-hearted farce and good for filling in a few moments, but this is not going to be one you remember for the rest of your life. After reading it I can't say I really thought that much of it; the book is short and the chapters even shorter (most going for two or three pages only). If you in the mood something lighter than helium and crammed with a surplus of comic relief than this will fit your bill......but it's hard to create a good book when all the cast are comic relief and there is no foil for them. This is pure Bridget does Assasination.	2005-07-19
US	52929488	R2UM4Q4NI83OJ2	0312288077	644578381	Deshi: A Martial Arts Thriller (Connor Burke and Yamashita Sensei)	Books	3	12	12	N	N	A decent and very fun read from Donohue	This novel is going to be a little tougher to critique than Mr. Donohue's first outing, the remarkable \\"Sensei\\". I very much enjoyed reading this sequel to that excellent novel and also enjoyed being introduced to the characters again. There were a few flaws with this novel though, and this one felt more like a debut novel than his Sensei did.<br /><br />As I noted in my review of Sensei, Donohue's protagonist, Connor Burke, is a finely realized and interesting character with substantial depth, complex feelings and motivations, and is an unusual hybrid of both college professor of Asian Studies and martial artist. In Sensei, his actions and reactions, to the unfolding plot events were both sensible and consistent with his character. Within this novel I felt the author stretched that sensibility and consistency a little too far for my comfort.<br /><br />In this outing Connor, still a thinking man's hero, is drawn into another police investigation because of his unusual background and expertise in martial arts and Asian studies. The investigation, taking place in New York City, revolves around a series of murders of experts in Japanese calligraphy. Events proceed and eventually two dojos (martial arts schools) come into conflict with each other, spiritually and physically. The action scenes are excellent, the writing taut, and the book flows extremely well. In fact, I churned through this one very quickly, ignoring important things in my life clamoring for my attention, and enjoyed myself quite a bit.<br /><br />I was disapppointed on some levels with this book however, probably because my expectations were so elevated after reading Sensei. Some of the characters in this book are finely realized, complex, believable and interesting. Yet many are not. Additionally some of the situations within the novel felt both forced and contrived and lacked a sense of naturalness and authenticity. Perhaps most disappointing was that the villains felt fairly cartoonish in the end and certainly did not behave rationally nor were their actions internally consistent with their depictations. Clever villains are so much more interesting than stupid ones.<br /><br />I wish I could whole-heartedly recommend this book as an excellent read, but all I can really say is that it was certainly a fun read and I still enjoyed it despite some flaws. If you liked Sensei then go ahead and read this one, you'll still enjoy the further adventures of Connor Burke. If you haven't read Sensei, but like to read thrillers/mysteries/action adventure then I'd recommend reading Sensei before this book.have rationally nor were their actions internally consistent with their depictations. Clever villains are so much more interesting than stupid ones.    I wish I could whole-heartedly recommend this book as an excellent read, but all I can really say is that it was certainly a fun read and I still enjoyed it despite some flaws. If you liked Sensei then go ahead and read this one, you'll still enjoy the further adventures of Connor Burke. If you haven't read Sensei, but like to read thrillers/mysteries/action adventure then I'd recommend reading Sensei before this book.	2005-07-18
US	52929488	R1PUFR53SY3V4H	0451411323	484306233	Sensei	Books	4	13	14	N	N	A startlingly good first novel	John Donohue is to be commended on his first novel, Sensei, a remarkably good first effort that I would whole-heartedly recommend to fans of thrillers. This was a very enjoyable read and in no way felt like a freshman effort. It is always such an unusual treat to stumble across a new writer and have their debut novel completely capture you and take you off guard. Debut efforts rarely have me scribble the author's name on my \\"must read from now\\" on list, but this one did, and I am waiting as patiently as possible for his next novel to come out.<br /><br />His protagonist, Connor Burke, is a finely realized and interesting character with substantial depth, complex feelings and motivations, and is an unusual hybrid of both college professor and martial artist. Connor, a thinking man's hero, finds himself drawn into a police investigation because of his unusual background and expertise. All the characters are finely realized, the plot reasonably realistic, the atmoshpere compelling, but it's the pacing of the novel that appeals to me the most. Much like Dave Robicheaux in James Lee Burke's novels, Donohue's character, Connor Burke, narrates events in an introspective, almost brooding fashion, and thoughout the story is contemplative, thoughtful, and focused on matters conscience and trust. He is an extremly interesting and sympathetic character and it is a pleasure to read about his adventures. So while the action is completely lively and thrilling, the story itself is calm and centered. This novel is much like the martial artists it depicts; externally violent and active, yet calm and centerd within.<br /><br />The novel is set in New York City, feautes an impressive amount of action, and unfolds in layers as Connor seeks down and confronts an extraordinarily talented martial artist who for obscure reasons has murdered several prominenet martial arts teachers (sensei). Fans of James Lee Burke, Lee Child, Barry Eisler will all enjoy this one. I heartily recommend it.it.	2005-07-18
US	52929488	R1H68DCZ0AYM20	1590710118	309083352	Eagle in the Snow: A Novel of General Maximus and Rome's Last Stand	Books	5	75	79	N	N	Makes the Alamo sound like a little girl's afternoon tea party!	I ordered this book from Amazon when I was in the middle of a Roman phase spurred on by Colleen McCullough's Rome series. I was initially a little cautious since the book was written in the sixties and I did not know if I was going to get a great read or something dry and fusty. Let me allay any possible fears: this is a GREAT book!!! I absolutely loved it. In fact, I was cruising through the bargain bin of the local bookstore last month and came across four copies that had been marked down and I bought them immediately. I want to be able to give them away to four lucky individuals. So yes, it is a fantastic book, and one that I would not only heartily recommend, but one I will plunk folding money down for so I can share this with my friends.<br /><br />I loved this book. The level of character development was amazing, the writing vivid, the pacing accelerates throughout the novel, but most of all I loved the creeping sense of despair, futility, and hopelessness in the novel. That sounds odd, but bear with me. Maximus is an old line, successful, stalwart, and brilliant legate (general) who is literally holding the fort against the Picts and other woolly boys along Hadrian's Wall roughly about 400 AD. The empire is crumbling, but then again it's been crumbling for 200 years. From there Maximus is sent to the Rhine with one legion, the XX, to hold back the hordes of Germans from invading Gaul.<br /><br />When I initially read this I was astonished. What? One legion? Caesar had four when he crossed the Rhine; Augustus stationed 8 legions along the Rhine to hold the Germans back. This was when Rome was at it's strongest, the troops hard-bitten veterans, and the Germans divided, beaten down and occupied. In this novel, the Germans were ascendant again, extremely populous, and desperately wanting to move to Gaul for the twin reasons that it had more fertile land and that the Huns were pushing them mercilessly. So Maximums was supposed to hold the Rhine with only one legion? Do you know how long the Rhine is? I couldn't fathom it. Yet, the wily old fox, time after time, overcame obstacles, despair, mutinous troops, lack of food and winter gear, surly and unhelpful townsfolk, and every hardship imaginable to overawe, out-think, and out-fight the Germans. His cunning, ruthlessness, and determination are stunning. I felt like I was reading with my mouth open the whole time, because this was real!!! Yet that creeping despair, futility, and hopelessness......for it was the death of a thousand cuts; Maximus fought, twisted, dodged, danced, lied, ambushed, tricked and did everything in his power to hold the line but every victory was a Pyhrric one that bled away a little more strength.<br /><br />Folks, this one was a magnificient book and I highly recommend it. I don't want to give away anything here to spoil your read, so let me just say that you can't go wrong on this one. Get it, read it, savor it, and think about it for years. I have never forgotten this novel nor do I think it's possible to do so. It makes the Alamo sound like a little girl's afternoon tea party. They just don't get much better than this.n? Do you know how long the Rhine is? I couldn't fathom it. Yet, the wily old fox, time after time, overcame obstacles, despair, mutinous troops, lack of food and winter gear, surly and unhelpful townsfolk, and every hardship imaginable to overawe, out-think, and out-fight the Germans. His cunning, ruthlessness, and determination are stunning. I felt like I was reading with my mouth open the whole time, because this was real!!! Yet that creeping despair, futility, and hopelessness......for it was the death of a thousand cuts; Maximus fought, twisted, dodged, danced, lied, ambushed, tricked and did everything in his power to hold the line but every victory was a Pyhrric one that bled away a little more strength.<br /><br />Folks, this one was a magnificient book and I highly recommend it. I don't want to give away anything here to spoil your read, so let me just say that you can't go wrong on this one. Get it, read it, savor it, and think about it for years. I have never forgotten this novel nor do I think it's possible to do so. It makes the Alamo sound like a little girl's afternoon tea party. They just don't get much better than this.	2005-07-18
US	52929488	R32O8Y7TANVCJT	0765349051	158972074	Gridlinked (Ian Cormac, Book 1)	Books	5	41	48	N	N	Rip-snorting good read	Neal Asher's \\"Gridlinked\\" is a fast-paced, adrenalin-fueled, action-packed, idea-studded, fascinating look at a possible future for humanity. What's more it's a heck of a good read, loads of fun, and I had a blast devouring it! After reading this one, his first, I immediately went back to Amazon and ordered all his other books and now am anxiously awaiting their arrival. I whole-heartedly recommend this book, and if you enjoy hard science fiction then I've no doubt that you'll enjoy this book too. It's definitely a keeper.<br /><br />What a fun trip this was.....colony planets, advanced combat firearms, sentient hand weapons, genetic sculpting, enhanced nervous systems, intergalactic teleportation, inscrutable aliens, designer drugs, black market currencies, artificial intelligences....all fairly standard ideas, but Asher takes them and imprints them with his own unique take, and far more importantly, binds them up in a consistent, yet lavishly detailed universe.<br /><br />And what a universe it is! What made this book particularly fun was Asher's wry nod at today's international terrorist problem. In his imagined future nearly everyone is relatively wealthy, healthy, prosperous, and enjoys a grand standard-of-living. Governmental affairs are managed with wisdom, intelligence and compassion by vast artificial intelligences and everyone has every reason to be happy and just enjoy the heck out of life. With incisive insight into the human mind and human condition though, Asher realizes that despite the fact that they should be happy, not all people are going to be, and the outer planets are rife with bomb-throwing terrorists, fanatical plots, and underground movements that routinely try to wrest control of their planet away from the benevolent rule of Earth central, invariably so they can loot the planet for wealth, live out bizarre social rituals, or just because they're contrary. Of course, when they are successful, as happens rarely, the whole social order breaks down completely within 20 years with disastrous results for the population. These examples don't ever slow down the next crop of terrorists any more than today's examples do (think Cuba, Lebanon, Iran, etc.)<br /><br />This was so totally plausible to me that I loved this story. Create a paradise where everyone can live happily ever after, and then about thirty mintues later it will spectacularly implode because there are humans in it. Bigotry, hatred, paranoria, greed, idiocy, intolerance, fear, jealousy, religious doctrine, political dissension are all part of the human condition and have been around since day one. So it makes complete sense that they'll be around in the future as well. Therefore in Asher's delightful story it is no surprise that there is a small problem with people killing each other and blowing things up in Paradise. This of course gives his protagonist, Ian Cormac, an Earth Central security agent, plenty of bad guys to contend with throughout the book and makes for a jolly good romp. In a really neat way there is a fascinating inversion in this story; the villains are complex, motivated, and terrifically drawn while the hero is emotionally quiesecent, damaged mentally by his 30 year link to an artificial intelligence. This works well because the novel is also about the sympathetic characters regaining their humanity despite their past traumatizations, while the true villains  have theirs consumed in hellish fires of psychic destruction of their own doing. I love books with clever, nasty, but intelligent bad guys and this one definitely qualifies.<br /><br />There is some FANTASTIC science fiction coming from Britain these days (and a relative dearth in the US) so if you are looking for good Sci-fi check out Richard Morgan, Peter F. Hamilton, Iain Banks, Alastair Reynolds, and now, but by no means least, Neal Asher. They're all frightfully good writers!within 20 years with disastrous results for the population. These examples don't ever slow down the next crop of terrorists any more than today's examples do (think Cuba, Lebanon, Iran, etc.)    This was so totally plausible to me that I loved this story. Create a paradise where everyone can live happily ever after, and then about thirty mintues later it will spectacularly implode because there are humans in it. Bigotry, hatred, paranoria, greed, idiocy, intolerance, fear, jealousy, religious doctrine, political dissension are all part of the human condition and have been around since day one. So it makes complete sense that they'll be around in the future as well. Therefore in Asher's delightful story it is no surprise that there is a small problem with people killing each other and blowing things up in Paradise. This of course gives his protagonist, Ian Cormac, an Earth Central security agent, plenty of bad guys to contend with throughout the book and makes for a jolly good romp. In a really neat way there is a fascinating inversion in this story; the villains are complex, motivated, and terrifically drawn while the hero is emotionally quiesecent, damaged mentally by his 30 year link to an artificial intelligence. This works well because the novel is also about the sympathetic characters regaining their humanity despite their past traumatizations, while the true villains  have theirs consumed in hellish fires of psychic destruction of their own doing. I love books with clever, nasty, but intelligent bad guys and this one definitely qualifies.     There is some FANTASTIC science fiction coming from Britain these days (and a relative dearth in the US) so if you are looking for good Sci-fi check out Richard Morgan, Peter F. Hamilton, Iain Banks, Alastair Reynolds, and now, but by no means least, Neal Asher. They're all frightfully good writers!	2005-07-18
US	52929488	R34PVX5C2IFLHF	0786182784	927930770	Deshi	Books	3	0	0	N	N	A decent outing from Donohue	This novel is going to be a little tougher to critique than Mr. Donohue's first outing, the remarkable \\"Sensei\\". I very much enjoyed reading this sequel to that excellent novel and also enjoyed being introduced to the characters again. There were a few flaws with this novel though, and this one felt more like a debut novel than his Sensei did.<br /><br />As I noted in my review of Sensei, Donohue's protagonist, Connor Burke, is a finely realized and interesting character with substantial depth, complex feelings and motivations, and is an unusual hybrid of both college professor of Asian Studies and martial artist. In Sensei, his actions and reactions, to the unfolding plot events were both sensible and consistent with his character. Within this novel I felt the author stretched that sensibility and consistency a little too far for my comfort.<br /><br />In this outing Connor, still a thinking man's hero, is drawn into another police investigation because of his unusual background and expertise in martial arts and Asian studies. The investigation, taking place in New York City, revolves around a series of murders of experts in Japanese calligraphy. Events proceed and eventually two dojos (martial arts schools) come into conflict with each other, spiritually and physically. The action scenes are excellent, the writing taut, and the book flows extremely well. In fact, I churned through this one very quickly, ignoring important things in my life clamoring for my attention, and enjoyed myself quite a bit.<br /><br />I was disapppointed on some levels with this book however, probably because my expectations were so elevated after reading Sensei. Some of the characters in this book are finely realized, complex, believable and interesting. Yet many are not. Additionally some of the situations within the novel felt both forced and contrived and lacked a sense of naturalness and authenticity. Perhaps most disappointing was that the villains felt fairly cartoonish in the end and certainly did not behave rationally nor were their actions internally consistent with their depictations. Clever villains are so much more interesting than stupid ones.<br /><br />I wish I could whole-heartedly recommend this book as an excellent read, but all I can really say is that it was certainly a fun read and I still enjoyed it despite some flaws. If you liked Sensei then go ahead and read this one, you'll still enjoy the further adventures of Connor Burke. If you haven't read Sensei, but like to read thrillers/mysteries/action adventure then I'd recommend reading Sensei before this book.behave rationally nor were their actions internally consistent with their depictations. Clever villains are so much more interesting than stupid ones.     I wish I could whole-heartedly recommend this book as an excellent read, but all I can really say is that it was certainly a fun read and I still enjoyed it despite some flaws. If you liked Sensei then go ahead and read this one, you'll still enjoy the further adventures of Connor Burke. If you haven't read Sensei, but like to read thrillers/mysteries/action adventure then I'd recommend reading Sensei before this book.	2005-07-18
US	52929488	R365NSRGHSCOPK	0312288123	307710845	Sensei: A Thriller	Books	4	1	1	N	N	A startingly good first effort!	John Donohue is to be commended on his first novel, Sensei, a remarkably good first effort that I would whole-heartedly recommend to fans of thrillers. This was a very enjoyable read and in no way felt like a freshman effort. It is always such an unusual treat to stumble across a new writer and have their debut novel completely capture you and take you off guard. Debut efforts rarely have me scribble the author's name on my \\"must read from now\\" on list, but this one did, and I am waiting as patiently as possible for his next novel to come out.<br /><br />His protagonist, Connor Burke, is a finely realized and interesting character with substantial depth, complex feelings and motivations, and is an unusual hybrid of both college professor and martial artist. Connor, a thinking man's hero, finds himself drawn into a police investigation because of his unusual background and expertise. All the characters are finely realized, the plot reasonably realistic, the atmoshpere compelling, but it's the pacing of the novel that appeals to me the most. Much like Dave Robicheaux in James Lee Burke's novels, Donohue's character, Connor Burke, narrates events in an introspective, almost brooding fashion, and thoughout the story is contemplative, thoughtful, and focused on matters conscience and trust. He is an extremly interesting and sympathetic character and it is a pleasure to read about his adventures. So while the action is completely lively and thrilling, the story itself is calm and centered. This novel is much like the martial artists it depicts; externally violent and active, yet calm and centerd within.<br /><br />The novel is set in New York City, feautes an impressive amount of action, and unfolds in layers as Connor seeks down and confronts an extraordinarily talented martial artist who for obscure reasons has murdered several prominenet martial arts teachers (sensei). Fans of James Lee Burke, Lee Child, Barry Eisler will all enjoy this one. I heartily recommend it.it.	2005-07-18
US	52929488	R1C957318Z2OG	0297645617	309083352	Eagle in the Snow	Books	5	20	21	N	N	Makes the Alamo sound like a little girl's afternoon tea party!	I ordered this book from Amazon when I was in the middle of a Roman phase spurred on by Colleen McCullough's Rome series. I was initially a little cautious since the book was written in the sixties and I did not know if I was going to get a great read or something dry and fusty. Let me allay any possible fears: this is a GREAT book!!! I absolutely loved it. In fact, I was cruising through the bargain bin of the local bookstore last month and came across four copies that had been marked down and I bought them immediately. I want to be able to give them away to four lucky individuals. So yes, it is a fantastic book, and one that I would not only heartily recommend, but one I will plunk folding money down for so I can share this with my friends.<br /><br />I loved this book. The level of character development was amazing, the writing vivid, the pacing accelerates throughout the novel, but most of all I loved the creeping sense of despair, futility, and hopelessness in the novel. That sounds odd, but bear with me. Maximus is an old line, successful, stalwart, and brilliant legate (general) who is literally holding the fort against the Picts and other woolly boys along Hadrian's Wall roughly about 400 AD. The empire is crumbling, but then again it's been crumbling for 200 years. From there Maximus is sent to the Rhine with one legion, the XX, to hold back the hordes of Germans from invading Gaul.<br /><br />When I initially read this I was astonished. What? One legion? Caesar had four when he crossed the Rhine; Augustus stationed 8 legions along the Rhine to hold the Germans back. This was when Rome was at it's strongest, the troops hard-bitten veterans, and the Germans divided, beaten down and occupied. In this novel, the Germans were ascendant again, extremely populous, and desperately wanting to move to Gaul for the twin reasons that it had more fertile land and that the Huns were pushing them mercilessly. So Maximums was supposed to hold the Rhine with only one legion? Do you know how long the Rhine is? I couldn't fathom it. Yet, the wily old fox, time after time, overcame obstacles, despair, mutinous troops, lack of food and winter gear, surly and unhelpful townsfolk, and every hardship imaginable to overawe, out-think, and out-fight the Germans. His cunning, ruthlessness, and determination are stunning. I felt like I was reading with my mouth open the whole time, because this was real!!! Yet that creeping despair, futility, and hopelessness......for it was the death of a thousand cuts; Maximus fought, twisted, dodged, danced, lied, ambushed, tricked and did everything in his power to hold the line but every victory was a Pyhrric one that bled away a little more strength.<br /><br />Folks, this one was a magnificient book and I highly recommend it. I don't want to give away anything here to spoil your read, so let me just say that you can't go wrong on this one. Get it, read it, savor it, and think about it for years. I have never forgotten this novel nor do I think it's possible to do so. It makes the Alamo sound like a little girl's afternoon tea party. They just don't get much better than this.how long the Rhine is? I couldn't fathom it. Yet, the wily old fox, time after time, overcame obstacles, despair, mutinous troops, lack of food and winter gear, surly and unhelpful townsfolk, and every hardship imaginable to overawe, out-think, and out-fight the Germans. His cunning, ruthlessness, and determination are stunning. I felt like I was reading with my mouth open the whole time, because this was real!!! Yet that creeping despair, futility, and hopelessness......for it was the death of a thousand cuts; Maximus fought, twisted, dodged, danced, lied, ambushed, tricked and did everything in his power to hold the line but every victory was a Pyhrric one that bled away a little more strength.    Folks, this one was a magnificient book and I highly recommend it. I don't want to give away anything here to spoil your read, so let me just say that you can't go wrong on this one. Get it, read it, savor it, and think about it for years. I have never forgotten this novel nor do I think it's possible to do so. It makes the Alamo sound like a little girl's afternoon tea party. They just don't get much better than this.	2005-07-18
US	52929488	R2I9XQZ06YHBZE	0553804146	245113934	Life Expectancy: A Novel	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Love, baking, family values, and really bad people...Great!!!	I have to say that I am relatively new to Dean Koontz, first reading Odd Thomas a few months ago and then this one shortly thereafter. Why did no one ever tell me that Koontz was a fabulous writer? I thought he just cranked out schlock, and I was so completely wrong. Perhaps he is the most underrated writer we have if my prior, unwarranted, and completely unsupported opinion is anything to go by. If you are reading these reviews to find out if you should buy this book and read it, then let me just say: this is a GREAT book!!!<br /><br />The story centers around the Tock's, one of the most warm, endearing, off-beat, sweet, funny, quirky, loving and ultimately heart-breaking families I have ever encountered in fiction. Why do bad clowns happen to good people? Koontz raises this age-old, thorny question in his latest novel and takes us on a spiritual roller-coaster ride filled with love and laughs, tragedies and triumphs, violence and redemption, and really yummy meals and baked goods.<br /><br />The plot teasers can be read above, but let me share with you that this is one of the most warm, tender, and bitter-sweet books I've had the pleasure to read, narrated in the light and whimsical, yet not at all dismissive, voice that emanates from Koontz with ringing honesty. If you read this book you will feel both good and sad, will smile and laugh, will remember this one for some time, and will feel like hugging all the decent members of your family a lot. Do yourself a favor and trust me on this, Life Expectancy is one worth reading. Once you have read it, do yourself another favor and then go get Odd Thomas, another one by Koontz that is even better, if that is possible!	2005-07-18
US	52929488	R1RIAG8MO5L4CO	0345460057	428222705	The Romanov Prophecy	Books	3	5	5	N	N	An adequate thriller	Wow, when I came to this page to write my review I noticed how polarized all the other reviewers seem to be. Some people really hate this book, others think it is terrifc. For myself I thought it was a very average thriller, with a few nice things and some pretty irritating things, but all in all a decent outing from a new writer, Steve Berry, and one that I think shows promise of good things from him in the future.<br /><br />In this one we have a black attorney, Miles Lord, working in a Russia that is about to restore the Tsar to head the goverment. There are several candidates for Tsar, and not surprisingly, a lot of behind the scenes maneouvering for the candidates in order to be the party that gains total political power. The dirty deeds quickly become wet work and all of a sudden people are trying to kill Miles and he has no clue why. Throw in mystical prophecies from Rasputin, the Russian Mafia, beautiful Russian gymnasts and you have a somewhat enjoyable caper as Miles bumbles across Russia and then America trying to figure out who is trying to kill him and why and then ultimately trying to save the day.<br /><br />I liked the fact the hero was a black attorney in Russia; that was enough of a visual to give me a grin. I didn't like it so much that he was a tad slow off the mark most of the time; Berry portrays him as intelligent enough that I think he may have taken some smarter courses at some points in the book. I really hated it that he was neatly trapped by professional killers half a dozen times and bumbled his way out of trouble at every turn. That stretched my credulity too much and Berry needs to figure a better way to save his protagonist than through pure dumb luck page after page. But with a little suspended disbelief you can get through those sections and read a decent and interesting thriller from a writer whom I think will mature over time.	2005-07-15
US	52929488	R2ALUE8KJARTKT	0440241286	959080010	Gun Monkeys	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Good, gory fun!!!	If you're an action/adventure fan and don't mind a body count reminiscent of a Shakespearean tragedy, and you enjoy a lot of creative and cathartic violence in your reads, then this a great book, a whole lot of fun, and I highly recommend it.<br /><br />Charlie Swift is an ex-army hitman in the employ of an aging mobster in Orlando, basically content with his station in life, and just getting along like most of the rest of us. That all goes to hell when when the Miami mob wants to take over Orlando and the FBI follows hot on their heels. Violence explodes and Charlie is left directionless, friendless, and in need of some stability, so he sets out, against seemingly suicidal odds, to reorganize the entire situation operating under a quixotic belief in loyalty to his friends and employer.<br /><br />For a debut novel this was very enjoyable, the pacing excellent, and the plot and characterizations pretty good. It's not that easy to turn a hit-man into a sympathetic character but Gischler manages it well. The writing is deceptively simple, fun to read, moves quickly, and there is a satisfying close. A good all around first effort and lots of bangs, booms, shots, and all sorts of fun guy stuff. If any of this sounds interesting then give this one a whirl and you won't be disappointed.	2005-07-15
US	52929488	R36YLUSJGBU5SH	0060763876	653774075	Map of Bones (Sigma Force)	Books	4	4	6	N	N	A rollicking good adventure	There's a lot to like about James Rollins latest outing. Of course there are going to be the inevitable comparisons to Dan Brown and Clive Cussler to wade through, but in the end I think Rollins is more a synthesis of the two with his own unique approach. In this one we start with mysterious mass murder in a German cathedral, unexplained technolgies, and an attempt to blow biological weapons aross the Eastern seaboard. This is just in the first few pages and the story keeps accelerating from there.<br /><br />Here's the good: this is a great beach book if you like a ripping good adventure yarn, adrenaline fueled races across the continents, fabled treasures, historical puzzles, secret societies, religous cabals, exotic locales, exaggerated diabolical villains with nasty personal habits, lots of expendable evil peons, damsels in distress, and intelligent, dedicated, educated, and, of course, very good-looking protagonists who still drink beer once in awhile. As I said, a good synthesis of both Cussler and Brown.<br /><br />Here's the bad: the characterization is obviously a little shallow with neither protagonists nor antagonists developed as complex individuals, and the stories are so fantastical you have to operate with a lot of suspended disbelief to enjoy yourself. But that's true of both Cussler and Brown too. So if you're looking for fine literature, this isn't going to satisfy you. Try Iain Pears instead. If you want to zone out for awhile and have fun for a couple hours, this will do you nicely indeed.<br /><br />Mr. Rollins writes fun books that deliver a ton of action and roller-coaster thrills, but nicely enough he still manages to make you think a lot while you are having fun. As I said his approach is unique; he explores developing and theoretical science and extrapolates what-if scenarios and then incorporates them into fun adventure books. Therefore the quests/grail in his novels tend to be some fantastical scientific pay-off as opposed to more mundane treasure or knowledge. If I were to carp I would have to acknowledge that he has written the same book about seven times in a row. I'll call it the Rollin's formula, lol. He steadily got better in his first three books, but seems to have levelled off. His formula works, and it is enjoyable, but I'd love to see him elevate his game a little, add more realism and characterization, and give me a book I could give him five stars for. Go get 'em James, I'm waiting for it!undane treasure or knowledge. If I were to carp I would have to acknowledge that he has written the same book about seven times in a row. I'll call it the Rollin's formula, lol. He steadily got better in his first three books, but seems to have levelled off. His formula works, and it is enjoyable, but I'd love to see him elevate his game a little, add more realism and characterization, and give me a book I could give him five stars for. Go get 'em James, I'm waiting for it!	2005-07-15
US	52929488	R3GXBGBP93FMWJ	0060725834	412231490	No Way Back	Books	3	3	3	N	N	Luther goes to Korea	The adventures of Luther Ewing continue in another ho-hum edition. In this installment, the third, the lack characterization I noted in earlier reviews completely plummets to a new low. Luther gets contacted to do another job for the CIA, accepts, and winds up in a safe house/training facility with three gorgeous, intelligent, twenty-somethings and one ken clone.<br /><br />The novel drags through the first half of the book, covering Luther's training, and the reader has to put up with the cardboard, beautiful people Crow populates his novel with and the hormonal responses they engender. The action picks up a little in the second half as Luther heads to California, then Korea for his assignment. The conclusion is unrealistic and unsatisfying, but there is a little excitement, tension (of the non-sexual kind), and action in the second half of the book. I have some serious issues with the Joe Boy/Ewing development in this novel, particularly because of some glaring inconsistencies with earlier works. For those of you who read Red Rain, you may remember Joe Boy as the special forces friend who bails out Luther (albeitly by mail) and who is one of the subjects of the photograph which is Luther's only valued possession. I certainly won't give away details, but I was fairly nonplussed with this novel over that relationship.<br /><br />This is another formulaic, hack imitation of a good thriller novel complete with cardboard Ken and Barbie dolls substituting for real characters. Since it was so formulaic, I found the coyness of the author's pseudonym extremely irritating; understandable but irritating. Mr. Crow is billed as being a prize-winning novelist on the dust cover, and having made that claim I can see why another reviewer has decided that the author is contemptuous of the audience. He is billed as being so capable, yet he delivers a product that is very average. Ergo irritating, but understandable why he doesn't want his own name on it. If he is such a literate writer why can't he take a little time for character development? I'm sure I'd be a little more forgiving in my remarks if it wasn't for that dust cover blurb which comes pretty close to false advertising in my mind.<br /><br />I'd highly recommend Lee Child's Jack Reacher series or James Lee Burke's books over this outing, if you in the mood for a good thriller. These authors have won a prize or two themselves, put their real names on their work, know how to develop characters, and make you feel like you have more than gotten what you paid for when you ran out to get their latest book.e writer why can't he take a little time for character development? I'm sure I'd be a little more forgiving in my remarks if it wasn't for that dust cover blurb which comes pretty close to false advertising in my mind. <br /> <br />I'd highly recommend Lee Child's Jack Reacher series or James Lee Burke's books over this outing, if you in the mood for a good thriller. These authors have won a prize or two themselves, put their real names on their work, know how to develop characters, and make you feel like you have more than gotten what you paid for when you ran out to get their latest book.	2005-07-15
US	52929488	R2OD2RNZK8GONW	0743277198	86157417	Crusader's Cross: A Dave Robicheaux Novel (Dave Robicheaux Mysteries)	Books	5	99	102	N	N	Violence, embedded in achingly beautiful poetry	Steady, consistent, lyrical, reliable, soothing, wonderful, a distinct voice.......all ways to describe James Lee Burke's writing. For myself, while it may be an odd thought, I have always had moments when reading his prose when I felt like I was actually reading poetry, his writing is that beautiful. You just can't go wrong with James Lee Burke and his protagonist Dave Robicheaux. I highly recommend this book, and anything else he has ever written, he is simply that good. Crusader's Cross, set in the bayou country of Louisiana and the surrounding environs, relates a tale of the long-lost puppy love of Dave's brother and their search for what happened to her, weaves in a new story line revolving about a tough, remarkable nun, and features both an odd family who claim descent from Roman heroes who defeated Attila the Hun at Chalons and a depraved, sadistic serial killer who seems to be taunting Robicheaux. These separate threads are intricately woven together against the historical and ongoing backdrop of the prostitution trade in the South.<br /><br />In his richly drawn and finely realized protagonist,  Burke has created a true hero: a complex man, with deep roots and deeper loves, heartsick for the lost way of life of his idealized youth in the Acadian bayou country. Dave Robicheaux, son of an Cajun oil rig worker, child of the golden fifties, Vietnam veteran, police detective, alcoholic, husband, father, friend, a man of violence and conscience, wondering where the beauty in his world has gone. This novel may be one of his best yet, and I was glad to see his half-brother show up again. Run, don't walk, to go get your copy of this book and prepare for wonderful experience - this is a rare one. Shut out your friends and family, grab some goodies to eat, lock the door, throw the bolt and settle in for one heck of a good read. Crusader's Cross is another wonderful installment in the Robicheaux series.	2005-07-15
US	52929488	R12R10PG75VFF6	1573220825	89472327	An Instance of the Fingerpost	Books	5	5	5	N	N	A wonderfully intricate book!	What a wonderful story and masterful storyteller! This is perhaps the most intricately plotted novel I've ever read and it is breath-taking in it's scope and complexity. Just when you think you know what is going on, you find yourself grinning because something new is revealed. Over and over and over again for an enthralling 700 pages.<br /><br />If you like being surprised, and like novels that just when you think you have figured it out the author manages to escape your clutches and give you a new perspective, then you'll love this book. The plot is as layered and folded as a katana (an ancient japanese sword forged of metal folded a thousand times in order to form the keenest edge possible.) Mr. Pears has crafted a literary katana, for the plot is as subtlely folded, yet razor sharp, as any novel I've ever read.<br /><br />As a bonus, his characterizations are superb and his command of atmoshpere, setting, language, period, history, and most importantly, how people actually thought in his period, is flawless. Mr. Pears is obviously an intelligent, erudite, and gifted writer who spends time crafting us marvellous gifts of entertainment and learning. What a guy! Perhaps the most amazing thing regarding this mystery is that there is no final denouement and \\"Truth\\" is revealed as a very fluid thing indeed in human affairs as the perceptions and agendas of the many protagonists clash against each other. Yet as each piece of the onion is layered back the reader gets truths, with a little t, and slowly begins to comprehend the big picture. Yet, never trust that you know the \\"Truth\\" because revelations and surpises keep coming until the last page.<br /><br />This novel is set in 1663 in Oxford, England during the period of the Restoration of the monarchy. A fascinating time and this novel made me wish to learn more of the events leading up to this period. Mr. Pears achieves his startling masterpiece of plotting and deception by actually writing four novels in one it seems. The events revolving about the murder of a Oxford prelate are related in turn by four different parties. Pears give them each their own unique voice, personality, perceptions, goals, and place in society and through the unfolding story we learn just how startling different one person's perception can be from another's even when they are eye-witnesses to the same event. I am reminded of the line from Roberts Burns, \\"Oh, to see ourselves as others see us\\"; in this novel it would be more appropriate to say, \\"oh, to see anything like anyone else sees it\\"!<br /><br />This is a highly rewarding book if you are willing to set aside the time to enjoy it, and I highly recommend it. It is entertaining, not difficult to read at all despite being a period piece, and will leave you collecting peices of the \\"truth\\" all the way to the last page when the final puzzle piece clicks into place. I loved it!it seems. The events revolving about the murder of a Oxford prelate are related in turn by four different parties. Pears give them each their own unique voice, personality, perceptions, goals, and place in society and through the unfolding story we learn just how startling different one person's perception can be from another's even when they are eye-witnesses to the same event. I am reminded of the line from Roberts Burns, \\"Oh, to see ourselves as others see us\\"; in this novel it would be more appropriate to say, \\"oh, to see anything like anyone else sees it\\"! <br /> <br />This is a highly rewarding book if you are willing to set aside the time to enjoy it, and I highly recommend it. It is entertaining, not difficult to read at all despite being a period piece, and will leave you collecting peices of the \\"truth\\" all the way to the last page when the final puzzle piece clicks into place. I loved it!	2005-07-15
US	52929488	RKPDYAJPG9S29	0446576972	670656489	Dance of Death	Books	4	73	81	N	N	Pendergast is back!!!	First of all, I am a confirmed addict of this series, and warned my girlfriend when this book came out I would be ignoring her for a few days! If you haven't indulged in a Pendergast novel before, then I highly recommend you go back to the beginning (\\"Relic\\") and start working your way forward. You will love it! Cabinet of Curiosities and Still Life with Crows are two of my favorite books ever and I would happily recommend them to any and everyone. In fact, I do recommend them all the time, and have received many thanks for it. All the books in the series are entertaining, are some are indeed extraordinary, riveting, compelling, and leave you gnashing your teeth waiting for the next one. They are absolutely worth reading.<br /><br />Agent Pendergast is titularly an FBI agent but his ties with that organizations seem very loose indeed since he seems to wander the country with no partner, investigate whatever he wants, and doesn't appear to report in to anyone. He is a wonderfully interesting, intelligent, and resourceful character who is independently wealthy from a family inheritance. He is in many ways a modern Sherlock Holmes, and like Mr. Holmes he comes saddled with his own Moriarty, in this case his younger brother, Diogenes. The Cain and Abel parallel is obvious throughout this book, and it works well to create an accelerating tension.<br /><br />The story line has been leading up to the conflict with his brother Diogenes for some time as Pendergast has agonized about him in previous novels and warned friends that his brother, whom no one has had contact with since his supposed \\"death\\" twenty years earlier, has an evil plot afoot to commit the perfect crime, one which will affect the whole world. It is in this novel, Dance of Death, that his brother makes his move. Pendergast and his brother contest back and forth throughout this novel. It is wonderful fun, with some extremely tense scenes and developments that do catch you by surprise.<br /><br />However.....I did give this book four stars rather than five. I also feel conflicted about it because this is an excellent book and I devoured it in two days, skipping work to do so, and I did not want to put it down until I finished it. Based on my actions I know it really deserves the five stars. My reservation is simply that I did not find it quite as completely riveting as Cabinet and Still Life. Those novels had a sense of foreboding and menace, crimes baffling and incomprehensible to local police, villains so complex no one even knew what or who they were, and they engendered a spooky fear of the dark and of odd places that just aren't present in this book. I wish Amazon had a special sixth star that I could go back and give the other novels so I could in good conscience give this one the 5 stars it probably deserves. I did love this book (which is how Amazon quantifies five stars) I just didn't love it quite as much as some of their earlier ones. But don't let my quibbling spoil your read. It is still a completely fun and gripping book that will make you ignore your friends, family, pets and other loved ones and leave you waiting in quiet desperation for your next fix. Enjoy!ur stars rather than five. I also feel conflicted about it because this is an excellent book and I devoured it in two days, skipping work to do so, and I did not want to put it down until I finished it. Based on my actions I know it really deserves the five stars. My reservation is simply that I did not find it quite as completely riveting as Cabinet and Still Life. Those novels had a sense of foreboding and menace, crimes baffling and incomprehensible to local police, villains so complex no one even knew what or who they were, and they engendered a spooky fear of the dark and of odd places that just aren't present in this book. I wish Amazon had a special sixth star that I could go back and give the other novels so I could in good conscience give this one the 5 stars it probably deserves. I did love this book (which is how Amazon quantifies five stars) I just didn't love it quite as much as some of their earlier ones. But don't let my quibbling spoil your read. It is still a completely fun and gripping book that will make you ignore your friends, family, pets and other loved ones and leave you waiting in quiet desperation for your next fix. Enjoy!	2005-07-15
US	52929488	R1RNS5YU4G2P8Z	0385337248	355534522	The Pistol Poets	Books	2	8	10	N	N	Not nearly as good as Gun Monkeys	I bought Mr. Gischler's debut effort, Gun Monkeys, on Amazon last month and enjoyed it so much I immediately went back and purchased his next two books, the first of which is Pistol Poets. I was extremely disappointed.<br /><br />Yes, Mr. Gischler writes simple, choppy, hard-edged prose that is appealing and he is also pretty funny too, reminiscent of Elmore Leonard and Kinky Friedman, and Pistol Poets features both qualities but.........none of the characters were in the least sympathetic. Every last character was self-absorbed, amoral and made me slightly naseous. I could not identify with any of the novel's characters, much less like them, with the possible exception of one very minor character, but of course Gischler kills him, while the disgusting main characters walk scot-free. For me this turned what could have been another fun and funny read into a dismal experience.<br /><br />My advice: if you don't need sympathetic protagonists then get this book because you will probably enjoy it. If you are like me and want someone you can identify with, or even like, you'll do better staying away from this book. The whole experience reminded me of having to read Kate Chopan's \\"The Awakening\\" in college, another depressing treatment of neurotics without any socially redeeming qualiites. Ugh.	2005-07-15
US	52929488	RW93IVVEY7KHY	038071082X	448407241	The Grass Crown	Books	5	46	47	N	N	Still more addictive than crack cocaine	This novel is a continuation of the \\"Rome\\" series of books, of which this novel is the second. The first was \\"the First Man in Rome\\". Again, and with feeling, this is the best series I have ever read in my entire life! The words compulsive and fascinating are simply too flat and characterless to do justice to this series. If I was ever stranded on a desert island with only one thing to read for the rest of my life it would be this series of novels, they are that good.<br /><br />This novel continues where the first left off and covers the decline of Gaius Marius, both in power and in faculty, and the meteoric rise of Sulla to the heights of power, and the titanic struggles that these erstwhile comrades ignited in the Roman world as their relationship slowly shifted from allies to enemies as each began to seek his own self-aggrandizement at the expense of the other. This is a fabulous book, and I found Sulla every bit as interesting as I did Marius, particularly since he was a more complex person with his difficult and impoverished youth, his cunning such a youth created, his difficulty with interpersonal relationships, his homosexuality, and the way he had to absolutely sublimate all of this in his quest for power.....and yet at the end, despite his more unconventional beginnings than Marius and his personal traits and habits (despised by most Roman senators), he is the far more conservative of the pair. Marius is born of rural and conservative roots but becomes a demogogue and populist, while the homosexual party-animal Sulla evolves into a rabid conservative along the lines of a Pat Buchanan. It's a lot of fun!<br /><br />One of my very real epiphanies in reading this was how similar the politics of Rome were to our politics today. I think anyone reading this will be similarly struck and it is not hard to envision dropping the Roman senate down in Washington and not seeing any real change in our daily lives. The headlines would all be the same, the debates as sharp, the slandering and pandering, the demonizations, and the partisanship and bickering would go on without the slightest flicker of disruption!<br /><br />I first read these books about seven years ago, and then read them all over again last year when the last installment came out. After I finished reading them the second time I nearly started over again at the beginning for a third go round, but decided instead to go and read other works relating to Rome and some works of the ancients themselves, including Caesar and Cicero.<br /><br />These novels cover the period of Rome from about 110 BC to roughly 40 BC, a period of great change and upheaval for the republic that eventually led to the empire (sounds a bit like the star wars series, doesn't it? I think George cribbed a lot of notes from Roman history). This is a grand book, with characters that seem more alive and more real, than many flesh and blood people we deal with in our daily lives. The character development McCullough achieves is nothing short of mind-bending and indeed may make you a pickier reader in the future. I would whole-heartedly recommend this book, and the entire series, to any reader. It is difficult to pick a favorite out of the series, and I don't think I could, but I really, really enjoyed this first novel as much as any of them.<br /><br />One cautionary note, since some of my friends are ancient history buffs, is that while the known \\"facts\\" in McCullough's series are extremely accurate and she did an incredible amount of research for these books (will someone give her an honorary doctorate please?), people's personalities and their daily lives between the big, recorded facts of history are not as well established. I love McCullough's impression and interpretation and I think few could gainsay her much in her works. Her Caesar and Sulla though may get more favorable treatment from her than other commentators and novelists might elect to award. That, however is one of the greatest things about these books: after the compulsive reading is over comes the compulsive conversations, the debating with friends about this or that, and the further exploration of one of the most facinating periods in history.st things about these books: after the compulsive reading is over comes the compulsive conversations, the debating with friends about this or that, and the further exploration of one of the most facinating periods in history.	2005-07-14
US	52929488	R2G3PEW2IES1U1	0380710811	272869729	The First Man in Rome	Books	5	22	24	N	N	More addictive than crack cocaine	This \\"Rome\\" series of books, of which this novel is the first, is the best read I have ever had in my entire life! The words compulsive and fascinating are simply too flat and characterless to do justice to this series. If I was ever stranded on a desert island with only one thing to read for the rest of my life it would be this series of novels, they are that good. One of my very real epiphanies in reading this was how similar the politics of Rome were to our politics today. I think anyone reading this will be similarly struck and it is not hard to envision dropping the Roman senate down in Washington and not seeing any real change in our daily lives. The headlines would all be the same, the debates as sharp, the slandering and pandering, the demonizations, and the partisanship and bickering would go on without the slightest flicker of disruption!<br /><br />I first read these books about seven years ago, and then read them all over again last year when the last installment came out. After I finished reading them the second time I nearly started over again at the beginning for a third go round, but decided instead to go and read other works relating to Rome and some works of the ancients themselves, including Caesar and Cicero.<br /><br />These novels cover the period of Rome from about 110 BC to roughly 40 BC, a period of great change and upheaval for the republic that eventually led to the empire (sounds a bit like the star wars series, doesn't it? I think George cribbed a lot of notes from Roman history). This first novel deals with Gaius Marius and his rise to incredible power even though he was not one of Rome's \\"inner circle of elite\\". Gaius was a military innovator and was responsible for some sweeping changes in the legions that improved their deadly efficacy and transformed the nature of what it meant to be a legionaire; from gentleman farmer to professional soldier. The new legion structure was actually similar in many respects to our military organization today.<br /><br />This is a grand book, with characters that seem more alive and more real, than many flesh and blood people we deal with in our daily lives. The character development McCullough achieves is nothing short of mind-bending and indeed may make you a pickier reader in the future.<br /><br />I would whole-heartedly recommend this book, and the entire series, to any reader. It is difficult to pick a favorite out of the series, and I don't think I could, but I really, really enjoyed this first novel as much as any of them.<br /><br />One cautionary note, since some of my friends are ancient history buffs, is that while the known \\"facts\\" in McCullough's series are extremely accurate and she did an incredible amount of research for these books (will someone give her an honorary doctorate please?), people's personalities and their daily lives between the big, recorded facts of history are not as well established. I love McCullough's impression and interpretation and I think few could gainsay her much in her works. Her Caesar and Sulla though may get more favorable treatment from her than other commentators and novelists might elect to award. That, however is one of the greatest things about these books: after the compulsive reading is over comes the compulsive conversations, the debating with friends about this or that, and the further exploration of one of the most facinating periods in history.organization today. <br /> <br />This is a grand book, with characters that seem more alive and more real, than many flesh and blood people we deal with in our daily lives. The character development McCullough achieves is nothing short of mind-bending and indeed may make you a pickier reader in the future. <br /> <br />I would whole-heartedly recommend this book, and the entire series, to any reader. It is difficult to pick a favorite out of the series, and I don't think I could, but I really, really enjoyed this first novel as much as any of them. <br /> <br />One cautionary note, since some of my friends are ancient history buffs, is that while the known \\"facts\\" in McCullough's series are extremely accurate and she did an incredible amount of research for these books (will someone give her an honorary doctorate please?), people's personalities and their daily lives between the big, recorded facts of history are not as well established. I love McCullough's impression and interpretation and I think few could gainsay her much in her works. Her Caesar and Sulla though may get more favorable treatment from her than other commentators and novelists might elect to award. That, however is one of the greatest things about these books: after the compulsive reading is over comes the compulsive conversations, the debating with friends about this or that, and the further exploration of one of the most facinating periods in history.	2005-07-14
US	52929488	RF3Z0ISESANX4	0441651275	838329952	Paper Grail	Books	5	5	6	N	N	One of my favorite books	I love James Blaylock and his quirky, fun, bizarre, mysterious and hilarious novels and this one has to be my favorite.  In point of fact, I gave this to my wife to read and it instantly became her favorite book as well. Now how often do married people ever agree? That's how good this book is.<br /><br />Blaylock weaves an enthralling and soothing world that you love to enter and populates it with not-your-normal people; off-kilter and unlikely, yet intensely lovable heroes and comic-opera, bumbling yet really aggravating villains. Nothing quite like him anywhere, although Tim Powers (who is a friend and collaborator in novels sometimes) has a similar voice.<br /><br />So go get youself this book, give yourself a night off, and have yourself a heck of good time. You'll never regret reading this one!	2005-07-13
US	52929488	RPQJ5I40TOXYC	0553584499	471304969	Odd Thomas	Books	5	4	6	N	N	"And then the cow exploded....."  LOL	I loved this book!!! I was laughing my guts out within the first few pages and it turned into one of those rarest of reads......the book you do not put down, you just keep reading until you are done. I started this one at about 10 pm one night and finished up around four the next morning. I was exhausted, and of little use the next day, but all I could think was please, please, please let me unread it so I could read it all over again! A friend of mine came over the next day and started reading it, and then he wouldn't go out with me. He sat there and read all night until I had to make him a bed on my couch. So run, don't walk, and get yourself this book.<br /><br />It is by turns funny, sad, compelling and touching, has a phenomenal ending, and is narrated in one of the finest voices I have ever heard. Odd Thomas is one of the most appealing characters I have ever read, so do yourself a favor and read this one.	2005-07-12
US	52929488	R1M71GQM3NG3QA	0345468651	371539518	The Zenith Angle	Books	3	9	9	N	N	A little disappointing	It's tough for me to give Bruce Sterling a bad review because reading his Schismatrix so many years ago was such a wonderful and mind-blowing experience. The novel schismatrix is a little dated now, but it heralded a wave of exciting new sci-fi that explored today's developing technologies and extrapolated exciting new technologies that could not have been imagined in the golden age of sci-fi.<br /><br />But, nostalgia aside, this is just an OK book. A little paranoid, a little dismal, and a lot pessimistic. Typical Sterling actually, but the thrum of new ideas, the exploration of new possibilities is lacking in this one, perhaps because it is confined to the near present. My advice is to skip this one and read Schismatrix or his Islands in the Net (another favorite of mine) first.	2005-07-12
US	52929488	R3C8L2JGI7SV4F	0375760741	88544726	The Lessons of Terror: A History of Warfare Against Civilians	Books	4	8	9	N	N	I liked the point, but maybe not the prose?	I really, really like Caleb Carr. He can be frustrating though. One the one hand I love his period work and his book the Alienist is one of my all time favorites. But then he'll write drivel like Killing Time. This book both made me happy and frustrated at the same time.<br /><br />I was so excited when I saw this book on terrorism I immediately grabbed and devoured it in about 5 hours. I had been looking forward to it because for many years I was a professional military officer and had come to the conclusion that warfare should never target civilians, and even forms of warfare that involve certain collateral damage should not be employed. I am aghast that our society sees nothing wrong with strategic bombing, and moralizes the atom bomb away as necessary. I have argued this with my peers for years, so consequently I was looking forward to this. In many ways it did give me the conclusion that I have come to myself; warfare against civilians is stupid and counter-productive without even having to get into issues of morality and necessity.<br /><br />The problem with this book is that it needs a good editor. The 270 pages could have been condensed down into 50 easily. Also many of the examples did not really convince of his point; that was frustrating because I was already convinced but there are many better examples out there than the ones he elects to use and the cause and effect of terrorist actions are not put forth clearly.<br /><br />I breathed a big sigh of relief when I reached the closing pages and finally found a clear, concise encapsulation of his point. The book would have been better though if that paragraph had come first and then the book had served to explain why those points were true and used concise historical example to support them.<br /><br />Despite being longer than necessary (very easy to read though)and a little muddied I still highly recommend this book and wish it was required reading for registered voters. It would at least inspire an intelligent debate about many of the issues facing society today and provide a historical context within which to frame them.issues facing society today and provide a historical context within which to frame them.	2005-07-11
US	52929488	R2VNYFOC0N3XVI	0380817160	200542713	A Winter Haunting	Books	3	5	6	N	N	Another disappointing one from Dan	Dan Simmons is a frustrating author. Some of his novels are the best I've ever read, full of a richness of prose, thoughts, beauty, and plot that is not often found. Some of his works are derivative, pointless, and feel like he threw them together in about 4 days. I've often wondered whether there are two writers out there both named Dan Simmons and somehow I've just gotten confused. This novel is unfortunately one of the latter, though not quite as bad as some of his lesser works. It follows the later life of a character from his \\"Summer of Night\\" that is actually one of my favorite novels ever, by any author. I'd have to say that this one is not worth the effort though.	2005-07-11
US	52929488	RL70V9MQHL05B	044661095X	565707898	Killing Time	Books	2	14	19	N	N	Are there two Caleb Carr's?	The ranking and reviews are spot on. How can someone who wrote the Alienist churn out something as embarrassing as this? This feels as if maybe Mr. Carr had a late mortgage payment, and wrote a derivative sci-fi book to cover the expense? Maybe that statement is not fair. I think I feel a little betrayed and perhaps that is why. I raced out to buy the lastest Caleb Carr book the day it was released and I felt so let down after reading this.<br /><br />Some authors are wonderful and write compelling literature, some authors are not as gifted but nevertheless write entertaining books that are enjoyable, and some authors are just bad. But authors are generally consistent. If I pick up Clive Cussler I am not expecting literature. If I pick up Caleb Carr though I do expect something more than what I got with Killing Time. If I were Caleb Carr I would have been ashamed, nor mortified, to see this book published and have it stand next to this likes of the Alienist. My bitter thought after reading this is that I would have happily given Mr. Carr another $20 for just my enjoyable memories of the Alienist; he did not need to deceive me out of it with this book.	2005-07-11
US	52929488	R3L8BJJR7UARVG	0670030902	674038187	Red Rain (Luther Ewing Thriller)	Books	3	2	3	N	N	Something to read if you can't find anything else	I have to say I was a little disappointed with this book. I had to work very hard to locate a copy (maybe that should have been my first hint) but I was very much looking forward to it for some reason. I had seen some blurb here on AMazon that made me go track it down, but I can't remember what it was now. I think most of the reviews here are on target; in general this book is very formulaic and there is a disappointing lack of character development. Over all nothing within it will make it memorable for me so I gets my \\"OK\\" three starts rating.<br /><br />Since it was so formulaic, I found the coyness of the author's pseudonym extremely irritating; understandable but irritating. Mr. Crow is billed as being a prize-winning novelist on the dust cover, and having made that claim I can see why another reviewer has decided that the author is contemptuous of the audience. He is billed as being so capable, yet he delivers a product that is very average. Ergo irritating, but understandable why he doesn't want his own name on it. So this feels like simply another hack writing job someone had to do to make a mortgage payment. I don't sense a true attachment bewteen the author and the characters and the world he has created within these pages.<br /><br />All that being said though, I did read the whole thing, and read the two sequels, mostly because I was having a week where a little gratuitous violence sounded cathartic and I didn't have anything else to hand. So if you want a standard story of tough guys whupping up on other tough guys and don't have any Robicheaux or Repairman Jack novels available then this might fit the bill.	2005-07-11
US	52929488	R1X93P7CL9SNQ6	0385720386	288543952	Carnage and Culture: Landmark Battles in the Rise to Western Power	Books	5	3	3	N	N	An interesting take on military history	Mr. Hanson has created a very interesting work in this piece, and it is worthwhile to contrast this work with \\"Guns, Germs, and Steel\\" and also with Caleb Carr's \\"The Lessons of Terror, a history of warfare against civilians\\" to see how different people can analyze so many of the same events and come to completely different perspectives.	2005-07-11
US	52929488	R3VMSIV4ABBZO5	0380785412	508236110	A Game of Universe	Books	5	6	8	N	N	A very imaginative novel	An excellent and surprising read. Mr. Nylund impresses me as an author who spends the amount of time and mental energy to create a work of art. I realize that most people don't consider novels to be art in the classical  sense, but this novel is indeed a true work of art. Sentences are crafted  like brushstrokes on a canvas. He uses ideas as others use color. They are  woven through the story with symmetry and pleasing form. My compliments to  the author for creating a truly worthwhile book in an era that seems to  breed hacks of little merit. I highly recommend this one, as it is also fun and chock-full of ideas!	1999-01-12
