US	52921642	R2WQDCEGLLIB0J	0803261837	740448582	Pirates of Venus (Bison Frontiers of Imagination)	Books	3	15	18	N	N	The weakest Burroughs series, but interesting nonetheless	&quot;Pirates of Venus&quot; begins the last major series by Edgar Rice Burroughs: the Venus novels. When it first appeared as a serial in the pulp magazine Argosy in 1932, Burroughs had already written Tarzan novels, most of the Mars series, and the novels of Pellucidar. The Venus novels were created partially as a response to Otis Adelbert Kline, a pulp author who wrote very much in the style of Burroughs. When Kline created a series of Venus-set novels made to imitate Burroughs's Martian novels, Burroughs fired back with his own  series on Venus. He created a new hero, Carson Napier, who somehow manages to fire his rocket at Mars and end up landing on Venus. A jungle planet with tree-living humanoids battling a tyranny attempting to erase all class boundaries called 'The Thorists' (rather thinly disguised communists) and a horde of other monstrous menaces. Napier joins the fight against the Thorists and tries romancing the beautiful but unobtainable Duare.<br />It sounds like a typical Burrough adventure: plenty of colorful action, monsters, weird science, and crazy new cultures. But Burroughs was past his creative prime, and &quot;Pirates of Venus&quot; shows it. Phillip R. Burger, in his interesting afterword to this edition, sums up the problems in two telling sentences: &quot;In the pantheon of Burroughs heroes, Carson Napier is considered a tad deficient.&quot; &quot;I've become rather fond of 'Pirates of Venus' as well, in spite of the novel's rather glaring fault: no plot.&quot; Although Burger makes a spirited attempt to explain his liking for the novel, he's right about the flaws. Napier is a weak hero who doesn't really have any plan or direction, and the novel is really a loosely collected series of escapades and fights that lead nowhere in particular. The novel hardly even ends; it just stops -- setting up the inevitable sequels (which, for the record, are &quot;Escape on Venus,&quot; &quot;Lost on Venus,&quot; and &quot;Carson of Venus&quot;). Napieris maybe a more modern, realistic hero than Tarzan or John Carter of Mars, but that's not exactly what you want from an Edgar Rice Burroughs novel.<br />Nonetheless, &quot;Pirates of Venus&quot; is quintessential reading for Burroughs fans and pulp lovers. This excellent edition from Bison Books, complete with new illustrations, a glossary, and great essays from F. Paul Wilson and Phillip Burger, is the first time the book has been back in print for many years; many Burroughs readers probably haven't had a chance to experience Burroughs's last series, and here it is in quite handsome form. And, despite all its shortcomings, &quot;Pirates of Venus&quot; does offer simple action and adventure entertainment. Newcomers to Burroughs should first experience &quot;Tarzan of the Apes,&quot; &quot;Under the Moons of Mars&quot; (a current volume from Bison Books that collects the first three Mars novels), &quot;At the Earth's Core,&quot; and &quot;The Land That Time Forgot&quot; (all in print) before reading this later and lesser work from the creator of the modern action/adventure novel.	2004-07-19
US	52921642	RKB5XUZ4I18WQ	0152162380	869663317	A Wizard Abroad: The Fourth Book in the Young Wizards Series	Books	4	5	6	N	N	An exciting modern trip into Irish legends and magic	In the fourth installment of Diane Duane's \\"Young Wizards\\" series, chronicling the adventures of modern day teens who are professional wizards in a world-wide organization, our fourteen-year-old heroine Nita Callahan again travels to a new location to do battle with the fearsome Lone Power. She's been to the bottom of the Ocean and the far reaches of the universe, but this time she's going someplace even stranger: Ireland.<br />Ireland for a wizard is a dangerous place; it's steeped in magical powers, creatures, gateways to other worlds, and dangerously overlapping areas of old spells. And it seems that Ireland has become the center of a growing disturbance that will consume the whole world unless Nita and the other wizards of the area can come together and awaken the powers of country's sacred magic objects. And to think that Nita's parents were just sending her here for summer vacation! A wizard's work is never done.<br />After a bit of a dip in quality in the previous book, \\"High Wizardry,\\" Diane Duane bounces back in this wonderful trip through the mythology of Ireland. Duane lives in Ireland and has extensive knowledge of the land and its legends, and she helps to create a vivid, living picture of the Emerald Isle as seen through Nita's eyes. As usual with this series, the story walks a thin line between ancient magic and modern attitude. Imagine what our world would be like if Celtic gods suddenly jumped into the middle of our cities, and you have something approaching Diane Duane's style in this book. This is, however, the most traditionally high fantasy novel of the series, with less focus on the pseudo-scientific magic background that dominates the earlier books. We're on familiar medieval fantasy ground here with the gods and spirits of Ireland (and there's a glossary to help out), and people who loved the scientific aspects of the first three novels may not enjoy this one as much. In general, however, this is one the quickest moving of all the books and the scene setting is superb.<br />Nita takes center stage; her sister Dairene and wizard partner Kit only appear in certain sections. Nita has grown a lot since the series started, and for the first time she faces the possibility of genuine romance with a boy -- a handsome Irish wizard named Ronan. Unfortunately for both of them, Ronan's part in the adventure might be larger than they guess.<br />For anyone who has enjoyed the Harry Potter novels, the entire \\"Young Wizards\\" series is highly recommended (it starts with \\"So You Want to Be a Wizard.\\") Be warned, however, that this is definitely a different kind of reading experience, and you may be hooked.	2004-07-10
US	52921642	R2PHBCH7YGP1RV	0743435729	65617579	The Honor of the Queen (Honor Harrington #2)	Books	4	57	58	N	N	A good space opera/military adventure	The second book about Captain Honor Harrington follows the same model as its predecessor, &quot;On Basilisk Station&quot;: Honor Harrington receives an assignment from the Kingdom of Manticore around a planet where the enemy Republic of Haven has political interests. Intrigue with natives and battles both on ground in the space follow, with Honor proving her command mettle in massive ship-to-ship duels written in precise and exciting language with extreme attention to technical details. If you liked &quot;On Basilisk Station,&quot; you'll find more of the same enjoyment here.<br />This time, Honor heads to the planet of Grayson to oversee a strategically important treaty. There's a serious problem, however: Grayson was founded by religious fundamentalists who see women as inferior, and getting the people of the planet to trust her or take her seriously is difficult. Meanwhile, Grayson faces a war with a splinter faction that moved to another planet and is even more radical and dangerous -- and they are negotiating with the Republic of Haven and have secret plans to use Haven's technology to assist their dreams of conquering Grayson.<br />The ship battles are again excellent, and there are more of them than in the previous book. The best action scenes, however, are some great ground duels and marine battles -- author David Weber does a fine job keep the action varied. He also does good work with the conflict between Honor and the prejudiced people of Grayson, showing how they can overcome their bigotry. Weber adds many shades of gray to people we might accept as irredeemable when we first meet them. This dramatic conflict helps to flesh out what is otherwise a straightforward military science-fiction/space opera. Good fun.	2004-07-07
US	52921642	R1U5O1HHHSL19E	0689845332	57167313	Tehanu (The Earthsea Cycle, Book 4)	Books	2	39	49	N	N	A disappointing entry that lacks direction	Award-winning writer Ursula K. Le Guin finished the Earthsea 'trilogy' in 1972 with the tremendous novel \\"The Farthest Shore,\\" simply one of the best fantasies ever penned. (The other two books are \\"A Wizard of Earthsea\\" and \\"The Tombs of Atuan.\\") Eighteen years later, in 1990, Le Guin decided to extend the trilogy to another book, \\"Tehanu,\\" and has since written two additional books, \\"Tales from Earthsea\\" and \\"The Other Wind.\\" In \\"Tehanu,\\" she sought to balance out the story of Earthsea by re-visiting Tenar, the girl from \\"The Tombs of Atuan\\" and viewing the world through her eyes as an adult coming to terms with the way her life has gone and her relationship to Ged, the hero of the previous three books.<br />Sadly, \\"Tehanu\\" is a major disappointment and the poorest of the Earthsea books. The idea sounds interesting: exploring Earthsea from the point of view of a non-sorcerer woman. But Le Guin fails to create an even remotely interesting story around Tenar -- actually, there is hardly any story at all. Tenar stays on the farm, makes a few trips, and takes care of herself and Therru, the strange girl she adopted after Therru was abused and badly burnt. Ged returns abruptly, his magic gone, and the king's men are searching for him. It appears possible that a narrative line will develop from this, but none does. The book plods through unconnected scenes and talky dialogue until it abruptly ends.<br />I'm at a loss to explain Le Guin's narrative failure here. Perhaps, in feeling that she was achieving a great character study, she felt the book would carry itself without a spine of a story, but it doesn't. The problem doesn't lay in what the author says or how she says it -- I'm fine with the female slant to the book -- but how she chooses to frame it. The reader must have a reason to continually turn the page, must want to know how the characters will struggle to overcome their problems and why they must be overcome. Without such a structure, the reader will have a difficult time investing him or herself in what happens, and that is exactly the case here. For an example of Le Guin doing this correctly, read her brilliant novel \\"The Left Hand of Darkness.\\" She set out to explore an issue of sexuality, and achieved it through the device of adventure and political turmoil. \\"Tehanu\\" lacks any cohesive device like that; the book merely 'continues' until it is done.<br />Le Guin's writing style and sense of her characters do keep \\"Tehanu\\" from being completely unreadable, but it is slow going. People who have read the first three books should definitely read this because of what it reveals about Tenar and Ged, but they shouldn't go into it expecting the epic grandeur and sweeping power of the first three novels.  \\"Tehanu\\" remains frustratingly earthbound and static.	2004-07-02
US	52921642	R2SC8IM7NPG6HY	0345461509	812787082	The Savage Tales of Solomon Kane	Books	5	159	161	N	N	The creator of CONAN brings you a Swashbuckling Puritan!	&quot;The Savage Tales of Solomon Kane&quot; collects together all the unedited, original stories and poems about the puritan adventurer and fantasy hero Solomon Kane. Author Robert E. Howard (1906-1936) created many classic fantasy heroes in the pulp magazines of the 1920s and 30s, such as Conan the Cimmerian, and Solomon Kane is one of his most unique and intriguing creations for modern readers. Solomon Kane appeared in &quot;Weird Tales&quot; Magazine, and his stories combined swashbuckling adventure with supernatural horrors. Howard describes Kane as a &quot;fanatic,&quot; who is called by God to travel the world destroying evil. Kane is compulsive, obsessive, grim, and will NOT be swayed from his quest. He encounters sword-swinging villains, vile black magic, and hideous creatures as his wanders the globe in his ceaseless crusade. <br />If you haven't heard of Solomon Kane, buy this book immediately and fall into a world of action, horror, history, and the fantastic -- all centered on this vengeful and driven Puritan swordsman of the late 16th/early 17th century. The stories are presented un-edited, which means the inclusion of many racial stereotypes and attitudes prevalent in the 1920s and 1930s.  <br />This paperback is a reprint of an expensive limited-edition hardback. Aside from the stories themselves, it includes all of Howard's unfinished fragments. Earlier editions had author Ramsey Campbell finish these incomplete stories, but I prefer to read them exactly as Howard left them. Fabulous black and white illustrations by Gary Gianni adorn almost every page, scattered around the borders of the text, with an occasional full-page illustration. Gianni has an unerring eye for period detail, and his envisioning of Solomon Kane is dead-on. For the reference of new readers, the editors include two essays on Howard's life. First, a memoriam written by H. P. Lovecraft (who corresponded with Howard for years) on the occasion of Howard's suicide in 1936. Second, scholar Rusty Burke provides a short but information overview of the Howard's life. For the extremist, there is also an appendix of textual notes on the stories. <br />Here are the stories, fragments, and poems you will find inside...<br />SKULLS IN THE STARS: Solomon Kane finds a wraith-like monster guarding a lonely road in rural England. A short spooky tale; a good introduction to the character.<br />THE RIGHT HAND OF DOOM: A condemned wizard seeks revenge on the man who betrayed him. This is very short piece, more like a vignette, and Kane has only a small role in the story. <br />RED SHADOWS: (Originally published as &quot;Solomon Kane&quot;) Kane vows vengeance against a bandit who killed a girl, and chases him into Africa, where he encounters sinister magic and furious swordplay. A real mini-epic, with Howard's word magic at its best.<br />RATTLE OF BONES: In the Black Forest of Germany, Kane finds a mysterious inn with a hideous secret. A fine, short horror piece.<br />CASTLE OF THE DEVIL: (Fragment) Solomon Kane decides to investigate a tyrannical baron. Only four pages were completed.<br />DEATH'S BLACK RIDERS: (Fragment) Kane meets a shadowy ghost rider on the road. Howard completed only a page.<br />THE MOON OF SKULLS: The longest story -- almost a short novel! To rescue a kidnapped girl, Kane enters a lost city in Africa lorded over by an evil queen.<br />THE ONE BLACK STAIN: A four-page poem where Solomon Kane meets Sir Francis Drake. Unusual and stirring.<br />THE BLUE FLAME OF VENGEANCE: (Previously titled &quot;Blades of the Brotherhood&quot;) On another vengeance trail, Solomon Kane battles pirates on the English coast. There's no fantasy element -- it's a straightforward historical action tale -- but Howard's fiery writing makes this one of the best stories. <br />THE HILLS OF THE DEAD: Deep in Africa again, Kane joins forces with a shaman to take on a horde of the walking dead.<br />HAWK OF BASTI: (Fragment) A good start to a story, but the manuscript stops just as it gets interesting. Kane delves deeper into the jungles to find a tyrannical lost civilization.<br />THE RETURN OF SIR RICHARD GRENVILLE: Two-page poem, with Kane fighting side by side with a ghost.<br />WINGS IN THE NIGHT: In the best story of all, Kane battles a race of bloodthirsty winged humanoids on an African plateau. Howard's writing reaches levels of feverish, raw madness, creating an intense experience. A fine example of his passionate style and theme of affirming life through seemingly hopeless struggle.<br />THE FOOTFALLS WITHIN: Another superb story, which will appeal to fans of horror writer (and Howard pen-pal) H. P. Lovecraft. Slavers capture Solomon Kane, but they have an unpleasant rendezvous with an ancient crypt that imprisons something that should not be disturbed. Howard delves deep into dread and primordial terror in this one.<br />THE CHILDREN OF ASSHUR: (Fragment) Kane stumbles across a lost city of Assyrians. This is a lengthy fragment, about thirty pages, and might have been a one of the best stories if Howard had finished it.<br />SOLOMON KANE'S HOMECOMING: (Poem) After years of wandering, our puritan hero comes back to England and remembers some of his adventures. This short poem is the perfect way to end the saga of Solomon Kane, and is reprinted here in two versions.<br />&quot;The Savage Tales of Solomon Kane&quot; is a volume not to be missed for fans of fantasy, pulp literature, and historical adventure. If you've only read Howard's Conan stories, here's your chance to expand to one of his other brilliant creations in a beautiful volume.	2004-06-30
US	52921642	R1SV4SW837N88U	0679742298	904783689	The Talented Mr. Ripley	Books	5	7	7	N	Y	Superb noir portrayal of an immoral, brilliant man	Patricia Highsmith (who died in 1995) wrote many novels of psychological suspense and high literary quality, but she is only starting to achieve the acclaim she richly deserves. The 1999 movie version of &quot;The Talented Mr. Ripley&quot; helped restore her most famous novel to the spotlight, despite the uneven quality of the film itself. This 1955 book remains Highsmith's most stunning work, and it ranks high among classic noir literature and psychological studies.<br />Like some other noir classics (such as Jim Thompson's &quot;The Killer inside Me&quot; and Ira Levin's &quot;A Kiss before Dying&quot;), &quot;The Talented Mr. Ripley&quot; is written from the point-of-view of an amoral character who finds that murder is merely another tool to achieve his ends. Highsmith crafts one of the most convincing and sympathetic psychotics ever written in the character of young Tom Ripley. Ripley is a low-level con-man with anti-social tendencies and a lust for living the good life that he's been denied. When the rich father of Dickie Greenleaf, an old acquaintance of Tom's, asks Tom if he'll travel to Italy to convince his wayward son to come back to the U.S., he takes the job. In the sunny romance of Italy, Tom finds himself becoming friends with Dickie. But the friendship changes to envy -- Tom Ripley will do anything if he can just HAVE Dickie Greenleaf's lifetstyle...or even better, BECOME Dickie Greenleaf. Tom gets himself enmeshed in an increasing web of murder and fear, always trying to stay one step ahead of a scheme that seems to be constantly collapsing behind him.<br />What is so amazing about Highsmith's achievement in this novel is that she makes the reader root for Tom Ripley, despite his superficialty and complete lack of scruples. Tom's goals (but not methods) are ones most readers can understand: easy luxury, affluences, respect, nights in European clubs, days relaxing in caf&eacute;s. And when his plans start to fall apart and threaten to consume him, the reader wants him to succeed because he has such ambitions, and the fear he feels of getting caught is heartbreakingly real. Watching Tom cleverly connive his way out of one difficultly after another keeps the reader turning the pages, and Highsmith's superb literary style paints a detailed portrait of Southern Europe more appealing than any travelogue.<br />If you've seen the film, understand that you're only getting the surface of Tom Ripley. The book has the luxury of diving right into his mind -- and it's an unsettling and fascinating place to be. You won't forget the time you'll spend with &quot;The Talented Mr. Ripley.&quot;r wants him to succeed because he has such ambitions, and the fear he feels of getting caught is heartbreakingly real. Watching Tom cleverly connive his way out of one difficultly after another keeps the reader turning the pages, and Highsmith's superb literary style paints a detailed portrait of Southern Europe more appealing than any travelogue.<br />If you've seen the film, understand that you're only getting the surface of Tom Ripley. The book has the luxury of diving right into his mind -- and it's an unsettling and fascinating place to be. You won't forget the time you'll spend with &quot;The Talented Mr. Ripley.&quot;	2004-06-27
US	52921642	R37B87JU77NT1Z	0380812894	807974111	Bones of the Earth	Books	4	1	1	N	N	A time-travel trip with dino-power and other surprises	You could describe \\"Bones of the Earth\\" as \\"Jurassic Park\\" for the serious science-fiction reader. Michael Swanwick gives the reader not only a well-researched look at dinosaurs (mixed with plenty of pure speculation) but also a trippy story about time-travel and paradoxes. I've never encountered a time-travel story where the author is so free and fast with overlapping timelines and crisscrossing eras. The characters time hop so fast and frequently that the novel covers a period from the Triassic to eras billions of years in the future. Plus you get some juicy confusion such as characters meeting older versions of themselves, or celebrations where people from the future can ask famous authors to sign books they haven't written yet!<br />The time-travel method itself never receives close attention; Swanwick presents it, and then lets the story go along its bizarre, non-chronological way. In the mid-21st century, the government suddenly makes known its mastery of time-travel, and lets scientists from all times travel to stations placed throughout the Mesozoic to study dinosaurs. But where did time-travel come from, and why is it being used only for research purposes? These questions bother some of the scientists, and one in particular wants to shake up the time-travel scene in ways that could be dangerous. Meanwhile, fundamentalist groups plan terror strikes to stop the time-traveling project, and a large group of scientists finds itself possibly stranded forever in a rough part of the Cretaceous.  Where is the way out of this confusing tangle of time streams...and who ultimately pulls the strings?<br />\\"Bones of the Earth\\" reads quickly, even with its cornucopia of overlapping stories and time periods. Swanwick holds it together with his fine eye for character, detail, and excitement. Each chapter offers tantalizing encounters with ancient creatures, new mysteries of the past, or weird experiences with the paradoxes of time travel. It's a romp, no doubt about it, andyou'll have as much fun as Swanwick does with the possibilities.<br />Dinosaur fans (adult ones at least, due to some sexual content) will love this, and the hard-science reader will also find much to embrace. But there are enough energy and excellent characterizations to appeal to wide spectrum of readers. Think of as \\"Jurassic Park\\" with half the calories, twice the brains.	2004-06-25
US	52921642	R27QXFEJXI5S50	0312850093	456114433	The Eye of the World (The Wheel of Time, Book 1)	Books	4	2	3	N	N	A fine heroic fantasy -- both familiar and inventive	Robert Jordan's epic fantasy &quot;The Wheel of Time&quot; begins in this volume, and it is close to the high point of the series. The next novel, &quot;The Great Hunt,&quot; is arguably the best of all the books, but &quot;The Eye of the World&quot; is a superb piece of heroic fantasy built around the timeless 'quest' theme. It's guaranteed to sell most readers on the series and get them to continue at least through the next few volumes.<br />Jordan's fantasy is very much in the classic Tolkien style: a medieval world that resembles our own history, but departs from it in important ways. Jordan borrows extensively from other classic fantasies, but he never slavishly copies. He thankfully avoids stereotypical races like elves, dwarves, and orcs and instead comes up with some interesting new creations -- there's enough invention in the novel to keep readers intrigued. <br />The story follows the quest of three boys from the small village of Edmond's field -- Rand, Perrin, and Mat -- and the girl Egwene. They must leave their homes after an attack by fearsome creatures from legends, the trollocs. A woman of the Aes Sedai, an order of females who can wield a potent magical source, and her heroic attendant lead the young villagers on a quest that ties them into the age-old battle against the Dark One, an evil that is starting to awaken from its prison deep in a hideous land called The Blight. The background is far more complex than I can express here, and Jordan reveals only pieces of it at a time as the young heroes learn it. The quest remains shrouded in mystery, and this is part of what makes the book an intriguing read. The balance of back story is ideal; if Jordan tossed too much of the story at the reader upfront, the whole book would collapse. Instead, Jordan manages to keep the story steadily flowing through all 700 pages. (There's a glossary too in case you forget what something is.)<br />Well, he almost keeps it going...there are a few patches where the storyslows down, such as a long stretch with Mat and Rand moving from village to village trying to raise money. But mostly the action is exciting and varied, with some genuinely harrowing and horror-filled episodes (the sequences in a haunted city and in the Blight are vivid and suspenseful). Jordan maintains a good level of paranoia and suspicion throughout the quieter scenes, so the readers, like the main characters, are never certain whom to trust. The ending is both satisfying and a good set-up for the next novel.<br />Anyone who has started to enjoy heroic fantasy will want to read this book: Jordan is definitely one of best living writers in this particular field (even if the Wheel of Time has declined in its recent volumes). If you liked &quot;The Lord of the Rings,&quot; you'll definitely like &quot;The Eye of the World&quot; and its follow-up, &quot;The Great Hunt.&quot;	2004-06-22
US	52921642	RAYVY902UJ9BU	0143034456	184224308	Around the World in Eighty Days (movie tie-in)	Books	5	12	12	N	Y	Best and newest translation of the book available.	Although it has a cover for the 2004 movie version of the book, this translation of &quot;Around the World in 80 Days&quot; (&quot;Le tour du monde en quartre-vingts jours&quot;) by Jules Verne isn't just a quickly recycled old edition with a new cover slapped on it. It is a complete new translation by Michael Glencross that fixes the mistakes and sloppy translations found in most others editions -- many of them more than fifty years old and continuously clumped out on the market. Verne deserves better, and here it is. Doing comparisons with some of the other editions that I own shows how superior and well-thought out Glencross's translation is. He includes many pages of endnotes as well. The endnotes are valuable for the modern reader to navigate some of Verne's references, as well as understanding his attitude and his world. The notes also contain information on the translation choices that Glencross made. This edition will immensely increase your enjoyment of one of the most popular and perenially enjoyable stories of adventure and technology ever written.<br />&quot;Around the World in 80 Days&quot; was first published in book form in 1973, and quickly became a worldwide bestseller. Jules Verne is today considered principally a science-fiction writer, but many of his books were straightforward travelogues. This novel takes the travelogue concept to its extreme, sending the hero on a blistering tour of the world.<br />And what a hero! Phileas Fogg, a British gentleman and member of the Reform Club, who lives his life in exact measurements, takes a bet at his club that he cannot travel around the world along a designated route in less than eighty days. Fogg takes the bet, and takes along his faithful (and bewildered) French servant Passepartout. Trailing after Fogg is Detective Inspector Fix, who believes Fogg is a bank robber escaping with an extraordinary sum. Along the journey, the beautiful Indian lady Mrs. Aouda joins up with the remarkable Mr. Fogg.<br />Fogg uses nearly every form of transportation known at the time to make his rapid circumnavigation of the globe: &quot;steamships, railways, carriages, yachts, commercial vessels, a sledge and an elephant.&quot; Along the way he has extraordinary adventures: Sioux attacks, collapsed bridges, death cults, nail-biting delays (even one missed connection and the trip will fail), kidnappings, rescues, and some incredibly innovative quick-thinking. And Jules Verne offers us a pretty nifty education as Fogg and Passepartout, along with the Mrs. Aouda and the determined Inpsector Fix, make their tour of the world. Mr. Fogg may not have time to look at the sites, but the reader gets a delightful look at the world of the 1870s, from England, to India, to the Red Sea, to Japan, to Hong Kong, to San Francisco, to the American frontier.<br />Although &quot;20,000 Leagues under the Sea&quot; is Verne's greatest novel, &quot;Around the World in 80 Days&quot; is his breeziest and funniest. Verne's French wit and observations are sometimes screamingly funny. Take this great deadpan statement from the train trip across the U.S.: &quot;Given the carefree attitude of the Americans, you can be sure that when they start getting cautious, then there really is cause for concern.&quot; Even the chapter titles are often hilarious: &quot;Phileas Fogg travels the whole length of the wonderful valley of the Ganges without thinking it worth a look,&quot; and &quot;Passepartout receives a lecture on Mormon history while traveling at a speed of twenty miles per hour.&quot; In Phileas Fogg, Verne created a wonderful caricature and epitome of the perfect English gentleman. Fogg is one of the great, unforgettable heroes of European literature.<br />If you're itching to read &quot;Around the World in 80 Days&quot; -- and with all its humor, adventure, romance, and information, you should be scratching yourself like crazy to read it -- or re-read it for the first time in many years, this is the edition toget. Don't let the cover fool you! This is the best translation yet published, and the notes are a great help as well.	2004-06-15
US	52921642	RK4C2DMIB4EI6	0870216783	781459831	20,000 Leagues Under the Sea	Books	5	117	131	N	N	Best Translation Available -- accept no substitutes!	This is without a doubt the best translation of Jules Verne's 1870 science fiction classic &quot;Vingt mille lieues sous les mers&quot; (&quot;20,000 Leagues under the Sea&quot;). This translation by two Verne scholars, Walter James Miller and Frederick Paul Walter, takes all the knowledge available on the book and its author to not only make an accurate and readable complete text (early versions often omit a full quarter of the French original) that fixes the many errors of earlier translators, but also purges the text of many mistakes that were made by the original French compositors. The research and work that went into this translations is really quite stunning, and the result is a text that really lets Verne's genius shine: &quot;20,000 Leagues under the Sea&quot; is not only a brilliant piece of scientific prophecy, but also a thrilling story with superb, subtle characterizations.<br />The plot is familiar: Captain Nemo, an enigmatic figure who has withdrawn himself from the world, tours the oceans in his submarine called the Nautilus. We see this journey of 20,000 leagues (approx. 43,200 miles) through the eyes of Professor Pierre Aronnax, a scientist who is both Nemo's guest and prisoner. Also aboard with Aronnax are his manservant Conseil and a gruff ship's harpooner, Ned Land. The Nautilus encounters many wonders and obstacles on its long voyage: underwater forests, giant clams, attacks by huge squid, imprisonment in ice at the South Pole, monster storms, a war with a pack of sperm whales, and the discovery of the lost continent of Atlantis. But as something deep and destructive gnaws away at Captain Nemo, his prisoners seek a way to escape from the miracle ship.<br />In the English-speaking world Jules Verne has rarely received in the praise he truly deserves as a writer. People applaud his scientific foresight (while criticizing him for errors that were usually the fault of the translators), but shrug off his writing as inconsequential, with cardboard characters and plotless stories. If only these critics would read this translation of Verne's best novel...they would have to re-think their position on the great French writer! His genius for blending adventure, comedy, and psychology burst through in this translation. The book does veer into lengthy descriptions of marine life in places, and modern readers are likely to skim these parts (Verne even provides clues in the text to indicate when he's about to digress), but as a whole the novel is absolutely engrossing, throwing one stupendous adventure after another at the characters, while developing a mystery around Captain Nemo and increasing tension onboard the Nautilus so that the many different incidents hold together as a single plot. Even though submarines are commonplace technology today, Verne infuses his story with such awe-inspiring wonder that you can't help but feel the same sense of amazement as Professor Aronnax when he finds himself cruising the depths of the world's oceans. Real wonder never gets stakes, and no one was better at creating wonder than Jules Verne.<br />Aside from the excellent translation, this edition contains numerous extras (if this were a DVD, it would be labeled as a Special Edition Director's Cut). The lengthy introduction explains Verne's background, education, the development of the novel, the many things that Verne accurately predicted, the book's unsung literary qualities, the different French texts, and the problems with earlier translations. All the original illustrations from the original French edition are reproduced in the text, and generous footnotes give the reader a guide through Verne's more obscure references and shed light on the author's scientific genius. As a bonus at the end of the book, the editors include a new translation of the relevant passages from &quot;Mysterious Island&quot; that discuss Captain Nemo's background (just in case you're too impatient to go read &quot;Mysterious Island&quot; for yourself tosolve the Captain Nemo mystery). There's also a table of the measurements used in the novel for those readers who really want to test the author's scientific accuracy.<br />There really isn't any other choice when it comes to translations of the &quot;20,000 Leagues under the Sea.&quot; Nothing comes close to this: it will appease hard science readers, and it will open people up to Jules Verne's overlooked literary talents. With the wealth of background information available, this edition does better by Jules Verne -- ANY Jules Verne -- than has ever been published in the English language.	2004-06-09
US	52921642	R1MQDZT707KQZM	1560760478	246260210	Sojourn: The Dark Elf Trilogy, Part 3 (Forgotten Realms: The Legend of Drizzt, Book III)	Books	3	5	10	N	N	A good story, but weaker than the first two books	This book concludes the \\"Dark Elf Trilogy,\\" which tells the saga of the early years of the drow ranger Drizzt Do'Urden. The previous volumes, \\"Homeland\\" and \\"Exile,\\" took place almost entirely in the Underdark, the gigantic underground world where the evil drow make their home with multitudes of other unusual creatures. \\"Sojourn\\" brings Drizzt, forever cut off from his society because he rejected their evil values, to the surface of the Forgotten Realms. The story traces his journey that leads him the Icewind Dale, and the start of the \\"Icewind Dale Trilogy\\" (\\"The Crystal Shard,\\" \\"Streams of Silver\\" and \\"The Halfling's Gem\\"), which R. A. Salvatore wrote before this series.    But because \\"Sojourn\\" is principally a linking novel that connects Drizzt's life in the underdark with his later adventures with his companions, it is the weakest of the trilogy. It is still an enjoyable read; Salvatore is a clear, vivid writer who excels in actions sequences. However, it doesn't have the imaginative spark or strong plot line of the first two books. The Underdark provided a fascinating, bizarre, and dangerous setting. Without it, Drizzt's solo adventures seem a bit more...well...ordinary. Most of the story is episodic, resolving itself every seventy-five pages or so. It follows a distinct pattern: Drizzt tries to fit in various places, finds himself in danger from misunderstandings or aggressive foes, and then must move on. There are various villains, but no central strong bad guy who carries the whole story. The closest the book comes is a grizzled vengeful bounty hunter named Roddy who has a grudge against Drizzt, but he doesn't measure up to many of Drizzt's other adversaries.    The strongest sequences in the book deal with Drizzt's loneliness and his moral bind of proving to himself that he is a good guy who is not responsible for the deaths that seem to follow him. The center of the book deals with Drizzt's encounter with a kind and wise blind ranger, Montolio, who becomes Drizzt's mentor. (We finally discover how this underground dweller learned about tracking in the wilderness!) The best action scene also takes place here, with Drizzt and Montolio cleverly defending their home against a raid of orcs, giants, and evil wolves.    \\"Sojourn\\" is very readable, but slips a notch below the early two books in the trilogy. Fortunately, Salvatore has other great adventures in store of Drizzt and his panther Guenwhyvar. Their story continues in The Icewind Dale books, and after that, \\"Legacy.\\" Even more to come....	2004-06-02
US	52921642	R3ELKEQ3AOZK7M	0786915889	208021139	The Dark Elf Trilogy: Collector's Edition (Homeland / Exile / Sojourn)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Three fine books tell the story of a heroic outcast	The Dark Elf Trilogy<br />R. A. Salvatore first introduced fantasy readers to the drow (dark elf) ranger Drizzt Do'Urden in \\"The Icewind Dale Trilogy.\\" The popularity of the character led demand for more books, and Salvatore gladly filled in Drizzt's early history with these three books -- contained here in a single volume -- that take Drizzt from his home amongst the amoral and wicked drow in the caverns of the Underdark all the way to the far north of the Forgotten Realms and the Icewind Dale. Drizzt is more than interesting enough to carry a whole trilogy. Although not quite as deep a character as people often credit him, Drizzt is nonetheless always interesting to read about, with just the right amount of tragedy in his personality. Watching him rebel against his people and then try to find a life amongst other who are prejudiced against him, makes for good drama that never gets stale. And he's also a great warrior who can really slice and dice the monsters with his twin scimitars and his magical panther companion Guenwhyvar!<br />Although these books happen before &quot;The Icewind Dale Trilogy&quot;, I would recommend reading the Icewind Dale books first to get an idea of who Drizzt is before hearing his early history. It makes the events in these books more powerful. However, you can hop right into the story here with no dofficulty. The trilogy does stand on its own.<br />Here are the three books in this single volume:<br />HOMELAND: The first book of Drizzt's youthful adventures relates how he rebels against the rigid, cruel world of the drow and their undergound society. Salvatore pours on the action set pieces and monsters, although the politics between the drow houses do overburden the story in the final third. The best part of the book is the author's portrait of the sinister subterranean world of the Underdark. It's a unique setting for an entire fantasy novel, and Salvatore invests it with equal parts wonder and dread. Drow's relationship with his father is also wonderfully detailed. This is the strongest book of the three because of most of the story happens amongst the fascinating drow culture of evil and deception.<br />EXILE: Our intreprid hero and his feline sidekick travel the gloomy tunnels of the underground world in exile from the cruel society of the Dark Elves. His family desires to find him so they may regain the favor of Lolth the Spider Queen, and raise a zombie of someone very important to Drizzt to bring him back. Drizzt meanwhile finds companionship with a dwarf and a rock-burrowing creature who has been transformed by a curse into a monster. The three companions stumble on a mind flayer cavern, a pack of dire cobies, an evil wizard...well, you get the idea. The finale sets us up for even greater vistas of adventure. Altogether enjoyable, but it does occasionally drag under overlong battle sequences.<br />SOJOURN: Drizzt, forever cut off from his own kind, travels across the surface of the Forgotten Realms. The story traces his journey that leads him the Icewind Dale, and we find out how he learned the skills of a ranger and the languages of the surface dwellers. Because this is principally a linking novel that connects Drizzt's life in the underdark with his later adventures with his companions, it is the weakest of the trilogy. It is still an enjoyable read, but it doesn't have the imaginative spark or strong plot line of the first two books. Most of the story is episodic, resolving itself every seventy-five pages or so. It follows a distinct pattern: Drizzt tries to fit in various places, finds himself in danger from misunderstandings or aggressive foes, and then must move on. The center of the book deals with Drizzt's encounter with a kind and wise blind ranger, Montolio, who becomes Drizzt's mentor. <br />For enjoyable heroic fantasy with the right amount of serious drama and character, \\"The Dark Elf Trilogy\\" is a very good bet. This volume also contains an interesting introduction by Salvatore himself that explains how he invented Drizzt and why he ended up writing this trilogy.	2004-06-02
US	52921642	RF38OELZKGFDV	0345419677	930407126	To Your Scattered Bodies Go (Riverworld Saga, Book 1)	Books	5	7	9	N	N	An all-in-one reading experience -- brilliant!	Philip José Farmer picked up his third Hugo Award for this 1972 book, his first win for Best Novel. He deserved it. Packing the story into a mere 215 pages, a slender volume compared to doorstops most science fiction and fantasy writers churn out today, Farmer managed to create a science-fiction novel of grand scope that wears many different masks: it's an adventure story, an examination of the development of cultures, an amusing literary exercise, a satire on human tendencies, and a character study. Every reader will find something here to enjoy, and because Farmer knits it all into a seamless whole, even the most discerning and picky reader will find him or herself enjoying every dimension of the book.<br />This novel introduces the setting of \\"Riverworld,\\" a mysterious planet where the entire human race from all time periods is suddenly a inexplicably `resurrected.' Constructs known as grails provide food and other items for the billions of humans. Who or what created the Riverworld, and why did it reconstruct the whole of the human race? That question hangs over the entire story, as our hero, the legendary Victorian adventurer, Orientalist, anthropoligist, writer, and swordsman Richard Francis Burton, sets out on a quest to locate the masters of Riverworld. He has some interesting companions: a 20th century American, an alien visitor from the last days of Earth, a Neanderthal, the woman who inspired the character of Alice in Wonderland, and...well, Nazi leader Hermann Göring. Burton want to uncover the secrets of Riverworld, but the entities responsible for it want to find him as well, for he holds a secret that they desperately need.<br />\\"Riverworld\\" moves at a rapid page-turning. Farmer lets you explore the wonder of this collision of ALL Earth cultures in one place, and you never quite know what will happen next. Sometimes Farmer grabs you with a tense fight scene, the next he amuses you with watching the developing cultures and colliding civilizations ofthis stew-pot world. The emergence of many famous individuals in the story is one of the novel's best features. Farmer is one of the first authors to exploit the dramatic potential of slamming together many different legendary figures into one story. (Today this is commonplace, such as in \\"Van Helsing\\" and \\"The League of Extraordinary Gentlemen,\\" although in \\"Riverworld\\" the famous people are all strictly historical instead of fictional). In Richard Francis Burton, Farmer picked the perfect hero. Burton is strong, brilliant, driven, and completely egotistical, just as he was in the real world. He's the sort of hero you can't stop reading about because you enjoy watching him overcome obstacles and constantly rankle the other characters. Burton is larger than life, the ideal hero for this larger than life setting.<br />\\"Riverworld\\" will leave you with plenty to ponder, and fingers itching to pick up the next novel in the series, \\"The Fabulous Riverboat.\\"	2004-05-28
US	52921642	R2XL8Z31WQMB36	0140185364	806263380	The Ministry of Fear: An Entertainment (Penguin Twentieth Century Classics)	Books	5	136	138	N	Y	Perhaps Greene's best book, a brilliant moral thriller	British author Graham Greene divided his early novels into two distinct groups: `serious' novels, like \\"The End of the Affair,\\" \\"Brighton Rock,\\" and \\"The Power and the Glory\\"; and `entertainments,' his term for his espionage and suspense thrillers. This second group includes \\"A Gun for Sale\\" (U.S. title: \\"This Gun for Hire\\"), \\"Stamboul Train,\\" \\"The Confidential Agent\\"...and \\"The Ministry of Fear.\\" Looking back on Greene's long career, this distinction seems very artificial and almost silly; it perhaps made market sense back then, but Greene's entertainments are every bit as serious-minded as his non-genre work. These books are in no way lightweight time-wasters. They are as concerned with character, drama, and the human condition as any of his other books. In fact, I honestly prefer his entertainments; through the mode of the thriller, they actually stab deeper into the reader's mind.<br />\\"The Ministry of Fear,\\" published in 1943 when World War II was raging in London's skies, is perhaps Greene's finest entertainment and my personal favorite of his novels. Greene produces here a quintessential noir novel using a premise we often associate with Alfred Hitchcock's films: an innocent man accidentally stumbles upon a secret that turns him into a man marked for death and hunted by the law. However, Greene's main character, Arthur Rowe, is hardly innocent. He is a solitary, lonely individual who harbors a deep guilt over a crime he committed in the past. When he speaks the wrong phrase to a fortune-teller at a fair, he suddenly finds himself the target of a shadowy group of spies in London -- the Ministry of the title. Soon he's fleeing through blitz London, framed for murder, desperate and near-suicidal, but harboring an anger toward the people who have tried to kill him.<br />Suddenly, Greene pulls a massive plot switch on the reader. The novel makes an abrupt shift that alters the whole nature of the plot. Rowe's story becomes that of possible redemption and the washing away of past sins..but at the expense of feeling whole and complete. To say much more would ruin the surprises of the novel and the internal odyssey of the main character. It's one of the most fascinating moral and character-driven thrillers ever written. And the backdrop of war-torn London, facing daily rains of bombs, is astonishing. It's almost a fantasy world, albeit a horrific one.<br />Greene's language can sometimes feel too exact and literary for some readers' tastes -- he certainly writes nothing like today's typical churner of bestsellers -- and his peculiar 1940s British terms may cause some head-scratching for American readers. However, Greene had a magical way of expressing ideas that anyone can relate to. He writes in flashes of truth that can make the reader shiver with realization. Only the greatest authors can do this, and Greene does it over and over again in \\"The Ministry of Fear.\\"<br />If you've only read Greene's non-genre novels, I urge you to delve into \\"The Ministry of Fear.\\" It will make you wonder why Greene even bothered to divide up his books. For any lover of thrillers, espionage stories, or World War II, this book will fill all your needs and give you much more in the bargain.	2004-05-24
US	52921642	R38MN6ZT1F73IN	089658299X	646287812	Wolves (World Life Library)	Books	3	4	4	N	Y	Beautiful photograpy and a decent intro to wolves	Nancy Gibson's slender volume on the most fascinating and misunderstood animal in North America is filled with wonderful full color photography. We see wolves of every color and shape in every conceivable form of terrain and weather. Wolves are the most photogenic animals in existence, and these pictures alone speak volumes about their power, intelligence, beauty, and complexity.<br />The book itself is slim on in-depth information about wolves. The print is large and the text is widely spaced over the pages: the focus here is really on the design and the photographs. Nancy Gibson only briefly covers the most interesting aspect of wolves -- their social structure and family life -- at the beginning of the book. Other chapters cover wolf legends, human attempts to kill off the species, and the fight to protect them, all painted in broad strokes and simple language. The most in-depth section of the book covers the different variety of wolves around the world. <br />People who only want a primer and the basics on wolves will enjoy this book, while younger readers (late elementary school) will find it just right for a report for a science class or just for reading for enjoyment. But for readers who are looking for an academic study with more fascinating information on these animals should buy L. David Mech's incredibly detailed and researched volume &quot;The Wolf: The Ecology and Behavior of an Endangered Species.&quot; <br />Wolf lovers still may  want this book for its photographic quality, since Mech's book only has black and white photos. It makes a nice coffee-table book for wilderness lovers also.	2004-05-12
US	52921642	RF6EKFKRP812P	0345379063	590264183	Legend (Drenai Tales, Book 1)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Heroic action fantasy drawn with human characters	David Gemmell's premiere novel, &quot;Legend,&quot; is a stunning debut in the realm of heroic action-fantasy. This is a blood-and-thunder tale of battle, great warriors, blood-red axes, sinister magical forces, and heroism in the face of hopelessness, all cast in the mold of the great Robert E. Howard (creator of Conan). But Gemmell manages to transcend most of the generic heroic fantasy put out today by Howard imitators. &quot;Legend&quot; contains numerous surprises, the largest of which is how human a story it is -- despite the towering, mythic quality of the narrative. Gemmell makes characterization a strong part of his story, so the reader isn't merely waiting for the next big battle sequence to carry them along to the end.<br />The story is straightforward: the barbarian tribes of Nadir, under the rule of conquest-hungry King Ulric, make a concentrated to push to overthrow the long-standing nation of Drenai. Only a major fortress, Dros Drenloch, stands between the Nadir and a complete sweep across the lands of Drenai. The deciding battle will come at the walls of Dros Drenloch, and the defenders have small-to-zero chance of holding back the barbarian tide. That is until Druss the Legend, the greatest Drenai warrior, strides down from his hills to join the men at Dros Drenloch. But Druss is now an old man, and can even his legendary status and the aid of The Thirty, an order of men with mystical powers, hold back the mad barbarian horde?<br />The entire book focuses on the build up to and the battle of Dros Drenloch, a sustained piece of action and tension. Gemmell can write raw, ripping action scenes, and his military descriptions ring with accuracy. But he also has a cast of wonderful characters, and manages to make them achingly human and vulnerable, where most other authors would make them larger than life and impossibly invincible, and therefore impossibly distant from the reader. Druss is a great cast in point: a legendary hero, but now he is in his sixties and obviously past his prime. He knows he can die, and knows that he probably will die soon, but tries to do everything in his power to last until the end. The legend aura swirls around him, but the reader comes to know the real person inside the myth. However, the real protagonist of the tale of Rek, who becomes the Earl of Dros Drenloch. Rek is a seemingly average warrior with fears of cowardice, but with a streak of the berserker in him. In his doubts and anxieties, and also in his great romance with the beautiful Virae, the readers find their true connection with the story. Also surprising is the sympathetic portrait Gemmell creates of the &quot;villain,&quot; Ulric.<br />&quot;Legend&quot; is an all-around excellent heroic fantasy. If you love epic battles and tales of grand heroism, you won't find one much better written -- or more poignantly human -- than this one.	2004-05-05
US	52921642	R3LY1ISJQH0UNF	0064471837	962868136	Sabriel (Old Kingdom)	Books	5	5	6	N	Y	One of the best fantasies of the last decade!	High and complex fantasy at its very best, \\"Sabriel\\" has an original and fascinating heroine, a unique world that places a medieval land beside a version of George V's England, and reams of magic and action. Unlike the many fantasy novels that try to copy Lord of the Rings by piling on enormous amounts of complex information and plot strands, Sabriel maintains a simple narrative thrust that drives the story at a fast pace. It will fascinate both the young adult audience at which it is aimed, and also older fantasy fans. Garth Nix's world is accessible to the teenage reader, and dazzlingly inventive to entrance the older reader.<br />The heroine, Sabriel, is a sorceress in training at Waverly College, an all-girl's school in the land of Alcestierre, a country that resembles World War I-era Britain. Across a great wall near the school lays the magical Old Kingdom, where Sabriel's father, the Abhorsen, works as a necromancer, using magic to keep the dead from crossing into the world of the living. Sabriel discovers that her father has become trapped in the world of the dead and she must cross the wall and enter the Old Kingdom to find him and rescue him. She is joined in her quest by a free magical creature trapped in a cat's body, Mogget, and an immature boy named Touchstone. Opposing them is a fearsome greater dead creature, Kerrigor, who desires Sabriel's death for his own fiendish purposes.<br />The protagonist is the book's strongest feature. Sabriel resists the female action-hero stereotype of women who simply act like muscle-bound males. She is intensely feminine and emotional, a teenager at heart but an adult in mind, and shouldering a heavy burden of responsibility that gives her a somber attitude. Almost any teenager will understand Sabriel's problems, for they are only slightly removed from their own: obedience to parents, the conflict of awakening maturity, and finding a place in the adult world. Sabriel also casts an air of mystery-she's an image of the beautiful unattainable, and can hold her own in a sword fight. Sabriel's romantic foil Touchstone is also a departure from fantasy norms. He is no swashbuckling he-man or equal to his female counterpart, but is something of a child. We can understand why these two begin to fall in love but at the same time cannot let it fully flower.<br />The roster of supporting characters is short, and Mogget is the most interesting. The cat creature's cynical attitude contrasts with Sabriel's inexperience and creates tension that carries much of the story. Abhorsen serves as an Obi-Wan Kenobi figure, and Kerrigor is a delightfully hideous and disgusting villain.<br />The action and spectacle of \\"Sabriel\\" are almost non-stop. Adventure constantly brews, suspense and danger always mount. There are a number of terrific action-set pieces, and the finale sounds like an outrageous combination of different elements (WWI soldiers, an army of the dead, an all-girl's school) but is one of the most exciting conclusions I've ever read.(...)autiful unattainable, and can hold her own in a sword fight. Sabriel's romantic foil Touchstone is also a departure from fantasy norms. He is no swashbuckling he-man or equal to his female counterpart, but is something of a child. We can understand why these two begin to fall in love but at the same time cannot let it fully flower.<br />The roster of supporting characters is short, and Mogget is the most interesting. The cat creature's cynical attitude contrasts with Sabriel's inexperience and creates tension that carries much of the story. Abhorsen serves as an Obi-Wan Kenobi figure, and Kerrigor is a delightfully hideous and disgusting villain.<br />The action and spectacle of \\"Sabriel\\" are almost non-stop. Adventure constantly brews, suspense and danger always mount. There are a number of terrific action-set pieces, and the finale sounds like an outrageous combination of different elements (WWI soldiers, an army of the dead, an all-girl's school) but is one of the most exciting conclusions I've ever read.(...)	2004-04-27
US	52921642	RQTFUQI2888CY	0064471969	831577893	Shade's Children	Books	4	36	36	N	N	Excellent science fiction for young adults and adults	This young adult science fiction novel from the author of the stunning fantasy \\"Sabriel\\" has some striking similarities to \\"The Matrix,\\" although it was written before the film came out. In the future, enigmatic beings known as The Overlords have made all humans over age 14 vanish from the planet. All the remaining children were rounded up and placed in \\"Meat Factories\\" where they are bred to be used as raw material for slave-construct creatures, like Wingers, Trackers, and the fearsome Myrmidons. The Overlords use these creatures to play out cruel battle games for their own amusement.<br />But a resistance exists: children who have escaped from the dorms and who possess powers that the change in the world has given them. These children work for a being called Shade, a human mind inside a computer. Shade claims to be working at overthrowing the Overlords, but he seems too willing to toss away the lives of the children who serve him. Our four main characters, Drum, Ella, Ninde, and Gold-Eye, come to suspect that Shade has a larger agenda than he says, even as the struggle to defeat the Overlords starts to advance in their favor.<br />Although not as incredible a book as \\"Sabriel\\" (one of the best fantasies, adult or young adult, of the last decade), \\"Shade's Children\\" is action-packed, deeply imaginative, and filled with wonderful characters. The book is structured so that between the chapters dealing with the main action are short chapters containing computer read-outs, statistics, interview excerpts, computer self-analysis, etc. This is a clever device that splits up the action and gives dramatic tension to the rest of the book.<br />The four young heroes are realistic and wonderfully written. Ella, the eldest, and a strong leader who feels the great weight of responsibility. Drum, powerful but sterilized from his time in the dorms. Ninde, a teen-girl at heart with simple loves. Gold-Eye, the newest addition, stunted in language but not in bravery or dedication. Inmany ways, this novel is his story, his journey of self-discovery. Lastly, there is Shade himself -- and there is much more to him than anyone knows or can even guess.<br />Older teens and junior high school students who appreciate a mature kind of science fiction that won't insult their intelligence will love \\"Shade's Children.\\" But I also recommend it to adult science-fiction readers; Nix is a tremendous talent, and he won't disappoint your cravings for action, characterization, and ingenious world-building.	2004-04-25
US	52921642	R3D98UGTX6FWI1	0823084027	533583621	Ray Harryhausen: An Animated Life	Books	5	17	17	N	N	Art book biography of the greatest effects man of all time	Ray Harryhausen towers like a titan over the world of film special effects. This genial genius was the single-handed creator of brilliant, imaginative stop-motion and optical effects on a long series of fantasy movies. The films molded the dreams of many generations of children, writers, special effects technicians, and moviemakers. Harryhausen's best films, like \\"The Beast from 20,000 Fathoms,\\" \\"The Seventh Voyage of Sinbad,\\" \\"Jason and the Argonauts,\\" \\"The Golden Voyage of Sinbad,\\" and \\"Clash of the Titans\\" still thrill viewers today. You can feel Harryhausen's personal magic coming through in his creature effects.<br />This long-awaited book is a great combination of three concepts in one: a beautiful art volume, an artistic biography, and a behind-the-scenes tour of movie effects. Harryhausen himself, along with film archivist and researcher Tony Dalton, guides you through the length of his career, examining everything from his major motion pictures to his short Mother Goose films and work for the military. Each chapter goes into extensive detail on the origins, realization, and aftermath of each of his films. At over 300 massive pages, there is a flood of material here. Learn the tortures of achieving the brilliant skeleton fight from \\"Jason and the Argonauts!\\" Find out how cowboys managed to rope a dinosaur in \\"The Valley of Gwangi!\\"<br />Ray Harryhausen comes across as incredibly personable in these pages; it's almost as if he were sitting beside you telling you stories of his achievements, and sometimes taking swipes at himself. (For example, he admits some disappointment with some of the directors, films, and some of his own unfortunate decisions.)<br />The balance between the pictures and the text is perfect, unlike many other film-art books I've seen. The treasure-trove of sketches, photos, and promotional artwork is astounding. Harryhausen's own drawings which he used to design his films are works of art in themselves. The pictures of the model creatureslet you look closely at their details. Many of the photos show the painstaking process of stop-motion animation and the clever tricks required to bring these creatures to life. Even the most die-hard Harryhausen fan will discover many new facts in this book (I certainly did). There are also many rare behind-the-scenes pictures.<br />As a final bonus, the book ends with an \\"A to Z\\" of the many projects that Harryhausen never completed or which never got off the drawing boards or out of development. It's a fascinating trip through the land of \\"what-if.\\" Ray Bradbury, a lifetime friend of the animator, provides the heartfelt introduction.<br />The price is hefty (although Amazon's discount makes that easier to bear), but this is a quality volume of artwork and film history that you will never get tired of flipping through. It's the perfect gift for any fantasy-film lover. The joy of fantasy cinema flows through it and reminds you not only of what an incredible talent Ray Harryhausen was, but also of the limitless possibilities for film to lift us beyond the realm of the ordinary and into the realms of the extraordinary. Cinema and the world in general would be a much duller place if not for Ray Harryhausen.	2004-04-22
US	52921642	R3LD0C18C8TB13	1585671827	95189240	Shardik	Books	4	26	27	N	N	A moving, strange, fantasy unlike anything you've read	Richard Adams followed up the success of his animal fable, \\"Watership Down,\\" with this epic fantasy novel. However, you couldn't have imagined a more different novel from \\"Watership Down.\\" This is a very stark, mature, and philosophical fantasy work that explores the nature of religion, human interpretations of god, and the sacrifices and compromises of a war fought for supposedly idealistic causes. With the exception of a disappointingly tepid finale, this is an astonishing, absorbing novel that deserves rediscovery. I promise, you haven't read fantasy like it before. Without magic, fantastic monsters, or any overt supernatural occurrences, Adams sweeps the reader into a world of brilliant imagination -- the mark of a great fantasy.<br />\\"Shardik\\" occurs in a hidden world with a hint of the ancient Middle East. A great bear appears to the hunter Kelderek of the simple Ortelgan people. Kelderek declares that the bear is Shardik, a messenger of God, and soon the Ortelgan people rise to \\"follow\\" Shardik (who must often be coerced or drugged into fulfilling prophecies) to wage war against the mighty city of Bekla. Kelderek finds himself as the high priest of the great bear, but also learns the heavy responsibilities, and eventually, the doubts and fears.<br />The novel is filled with war, a strange romance, bizarre and frightening new lands, and violent shifts in the story that rise from the heights of spiritual victory to the depths of slavery. Adams's prose is beautiful and inspiring. Unfortunately, after many excitement moments throughout the book, the lengthy last chapter sputters to a conclusion and probably should have been left out. Regardless, \\"Shardik\\" is a fantasy of great scope that leaves the reader with much to ponder.<br />This new edition comes with a thoughtful introduction by author Robert Silverberg.	2004-04-20
US	52921642	R1UMJ1KJ32VADC	0020427859	400011174	Over Sea, Under Stone	Books	4	7	7	N	N	The subtle, mysterious beginning of a great series.	This book starts the classic five-volume fantasy series \\"The Dark Is Rising Sequence.\\" Although listed as books for teenagers, adult fantasy fans will also find much to love in these novels. Author Susan Cooper writes with intelligence and respect for her readers, and fills all the books with fascinating layers of history, folklore, and mysticism. This first book establishes the conflict that will continue through the remaining books in the series: a group of modern-day English children find themselves embroiled in the hidden battle between the forces of good and a mysterious force known as The Dark, a battle that has its roots in the shadowy legends of King Arthur.<br />\\"Over Sea, Under Stone\\" differs from the other books in the series in that it avoids the overtly supernatural. This is an unusual fantasy novel in which nothing obviously fantastic occurs. The terrors of The Dark and the workings of magic remain subtle hints and hidden undertones beneath the action, as if they are occurring just out of sight of the main characters. This gives the novel a spooky sense of reality, and the reader can easily imagine him or herself in the place of the three children who, during a vacation in Cornwall, slowly discover the battle with The Dark that has existed for centuries. The novels that follow, especially \\"The Dark is Rising,\\" plunge headlong into the supernatural, but \\"Over Sea, Under Stone\\" provides a perfect, gradual introduction.<br />The story introduces us to the three Drew children, Simon, Barney, and Jane, and their mysteriously knowledgeable Great-Uncle Merry, all who will play major parts in the saga. While the Drew children are on vacation in Cornwall (a land steeped in legends), they discover a map which may lead to the Grail of the King Arthur stories. With Great-Uncle Merry's help they start to unravel the clues on the map. But The Dark will do anything to seize the Grail first, for it contains a power that can defeat them. The story unfolds as a fascinating mystery as the Drew children unravel clue after clue while the danger from mysterious individuals grows greater with each stride they make toward the final goal.<br />Few young adult fantasies offer such intelligence and subtlety as \\"Over Sea, Under Stone.\\" Readers of all ages will become entwined in its mysteries and read swiftly to the tense conclusion. After that, they will definitely want to continue to the epic next book in the sequence, \\"The Dark Is Rising,\\" where the hidden magical forces of this book burst through the surface to start their titanic battle. The story continues in \\"Greenwitch,\\" \\"The Grey King,\\" and concludes in \\"Silver on the Tree.\\"	2004-04-14
US	52921642	R20VDLL8UY5PC8	0380814676	109367217	Mike Nelson's Movie Megacheese	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Hysterical, satiric entertainment essays from page one!	Mike Nelson, head writer on the classic television comedy \\"Mystery Science Theater 3000\\" and its host for five and-a-half seasons, takes center stage in this hysterical book of movie reviews and other related ramblings. His Midwestern sensibility and sharp but homespun sense of satire make most other popular \\"humorists\\" publishing today look pretty weak by comparison. Mike Nelson is the real deal: here's a book that will have you laughing from the first page, even if you've never heard of \\"Mystery Science Theater 3000\\" (and if you haven't, go buy some of the DVDs...NOW!).<br />This book collects new movie reviews along with a scattered collection of reviews that Mike Nelson first published in \\"Home Theater\\" and \\"Entertainment@Home\\" magazines (which explains the frequent references to DVD technology in the reviews). Most of the movie reviews are not really plot-intensive or meant to tell you much about the films at all; they serve as springboards for Nelson's hysterical observations on entertainment, Hollywood, romance, and life in general.<br />Take for example his bitter commentary on Nora Ephron's romantic comedy \\"Sleepless in Seattle\\": \\"The tag line for the film was, `What if someone you never met, someone you never saw, someone you never knew, was the only someone for you?' Well, then we're all hosed, because we've never met, seen, or known this magical person and we're all stuck with the horrid beasts we've got now. What are we supposed to do about it anyway? Keep up a run of unprecedented infidelity until we find that one someone? And what if she lives in the Australian outback or deep in the rain forest?\\"<br />Some of the reviews do go deep into analysis of their films, and the essay on \\"Patch Adams\\" is lengthiest, funniest review in the whole book. Nelson tears this one to shreds, and it's a riot. (\\"I think we can say with some certainty that anyone who's ever seen a balloon animal act is thinking, somewhere in the back of his mind, how nice it would be to die.\\")<br />The book is divided into helpful, although somewhat weird, sections. In the introduction, Mike Nelson explains his philosophy of film direction (basically, don't have Adam Sandler in your film and don't do a remake of \\"Lost in Space.\\") The sections that follow focus on action films, TV programs, science fiction movies, families of actors (Baldwins, Wayans, etc.), \\"chix flix,\\" the legendary stinko actors and filmmakers (Van Damme, Carrot Top), a few bits of miscellany, and -- to top off the irony, a review of \\"Mystery Science Theater 3000: The Movie\\"! All right! Mike's a stand-up guy to subject himself to his own brand of criticism.<br />I hope to see another movie review book from Mike Nelson in the near future. His next book, \\"Mike Nelson's Mind over Matters\\" contains non-film related essays, and the recent \\"Mike Nelson's Death Rat!\\" is a novel. Both are great, but I think Mike Nelson shines best when he's slamming the obnoxious bilge that keeps flowing through our multiplexes and DVD players. Fight on, brave Minnesota Man! Fight on!	2004-04-10
US	52921642	R2Z9PYMMYK0R3N	0523480636	1380728	Conan The Defender	Books	3	7	8	N	N	A fine Conan adventure from Robert Jordan	Robert Jordan's second Conan novel takes place entirely in the city of Belverus, and it is a welcome change from the many novels that have Conan trekking through wilderness  wastes to find lost cities. Jordan digs into the single location and lets the reader savor the personalities and conspiracies of Nemedia, second greatest of the Hyborian Kingdoms. The story follows one of the most ubiquitous of Conan plot archetypes: the \\"usurp-the-throne\\" conspiray. Conan's creator, Robert E. Howard utilized this often, and usually the target was King Conan himself, but here a younger Conan becomes ensnared in the coup conspiracy of Lord Albanus to overthrow King Garian using a superhuman \\"simulacrum\\" of the King. Conan has friends like the one-eyed smuggler Hordo and the beautiful poetess Arian, but has too many enemies to count. Can he and his Free-Company survive the magical politics of Nemedia? <br />There is much to enjoy in \\"Conan the Defender,\\" but the novel has major flaw common to many of non-Robert E. Howard novels. For more than half of this book, Conan has scant reason to be involved in the storyline of Albanus and the scheme against the Nemedian crown. He runs into conflicts and action scenes, but not until late in the book does the novel's hero really find a place in the story. Jordan provides no major \\"turning point\\" or \\"moment of realization\\" that seals Conan into the plot and gives him a strong direction. Conan is an unusual hero, and getting him worked into a plot often takes ingenuity. Jordan only half-solves this problem here, and it hurts the book. Every other chapter, Hordo begs Conan to forget the mess in Belverus and take off with the Free-Company. Jordan gives Conan weak excuses for deciding to stay, and only in the last third does his choice start to make sense.<br />Despite this large problem, \\"Conan the Defender\\" makes for a good read. Jordan has the writing chops to pull off the story, and he reads easily. The pages fly past, even away from the furious action. Jordan's action set-pieces are clearly described and he comes up with some clever fight ideas. The final battle in the palace really makes for a great climax. The only problem I have with Jordan's writing style is his occasional reliance on archaic English words that feel out of place. For example, he uses `an' as a substitute for `if' too often (and when coming out of Conan's mouth, this sounds silly).<br />The story bogs down in places where too many characters become involved in the conspiracies, and a few of them never amount to much, such as Sularia and an underused female character named Lady Jelanna. Some parts of the plot are never explained. However, the story moves quickly enough that it is easy to overlook the bumps in the plot. The principal heroine, Ariane, is a refreshing change from the \\"helpless wench\\" or \\"tough warrior woman\\" cliché and has a realism to her found infrequently in this kind of tale. In the final third, the action really kicks in and rushes toward the exciting finale with the rebellion and the storming of the King's Palace. Jordan even manages to toss in a snappy plot twist that genuinely surprises. Plot twists like this usually do not show up in Conan novels.<br />Although a lesser novel than Jordan's excellent first venture into the Hyborian age, \\"Conan the Invincible\\", I can recommend Conan the Defender as a satisfying if flawed exploit of our favorite barbarian.	2004-04-07
US	52921642	R3EZ7HT86I0TSJ	0451204255	8719102	The Mike Hammer Collection, Volume 2: One Lonely Night, The Big Kill, Kiss Me Deadly	Books	4	20	20	N	Y	Vilolent, brutal, fascinating noir novels (well, 2 out of 3)	In the late 1940s and early 1950s, Mickey Spillane wrote six novels about hard-hitting, vengeful, tougher-than-a-concrete-slab P.I. Mike Hammer. The novels attracted a huge following of readers, mostly veterans, and were smash bestsellers even though they attracted reams of negative criticism. This, the second of two volumes collecting these novels, contains the last three books Spillane wrote before taking a long break from Mike Hammer: \\"One Lonely Night,\\" \\"The Big Kill,\\" and \\"Kiss Me, Deadly.\\"<br />These novels definitely ARE violent, even by today's standards, although the sexual content that enraged so many critics in the 1950s (who often labeled Spillane's work as pornographic) seems quite tame now. However, what sets people off about these books today is the reactionary character of their hero. Hammer is an unpleasant, brutally violent, and self-righteous character who envisions himself as a necessary element that works outside the law to bring justice (i.e. death) to criminals. Hammer's techniques and attitude are sometimes gruesome, intolerable, and plain repulsive.<br />But that's the appeal! Even if you can't stand Hammer's ethics, it's impossible not to read his adventures compulsively from start to finish. He's a fascinating, hot-blooded character, and because of Spillane's frantic and feverish writing style, you'll want to follow him to the very end of each of his violent adventures. Not only is Hammer himself a great character, but the world through which Spillane hurtles him is a marvelous portrait of noir, where everything from dames to booze is cheap, loyalty means nothing, and violent death awaits the guilty and innocent alike.<br />The three novels here:<br />ONE LONELY NIGHT. One of the best of all the books, this one has Hammer facing a communist cabal in NYC while helping a progressive politician fight against a possible scandal. Spillane ditches the usual formula of Mike Hammer out for revenge, and instead makes the focus of the story Hammer'sinternal conflict over who he is. A condemnation from a judge echoes in his mind through the whole story. Hammer battles against the communists not so much because they are a threat to America (remember, this is during the height of the McCarthy era) but more because the fight will prove to himself if he is or isn't the monster that the judge accused him of being. Aside from the frenzied action and the amazingly bloody double finale with its twist ending, what makes this novel work is Hammer's internal struggle. Whether or not you go with the novel's rabid commie-baiting (it seems ridiculous now but hit a nerve back then), it's a great noir character study.<br />THE BIG KILL. This, on the other hand, is probably the weakest of the early Mike Hammer novels. Spillane switches back to the boilerplate vengeance storyline. When an ex-criminal who tried to go straight gets gunned down in front of Mike after leaving his baby in bar, Mike chooses to go after the killers (and even take care of the baby). There isn't as much action here as you might expect, but the sexual content is higher than usual. Mostly, however, the book feels a bit tired. The finale is either fantastic or utterly ridiculous, depending on your view, but certainly shocking and one of the few memorable scenes in the book.<br />KISS ME, DEADLY. This is one of the most famous of Spillane's novels because it led to the superb film noir version in 1955 (which was very anti-Hammer and purposely changed him into what the critics had always claimed he was: a stupid, callous, fascist thug). Mike Hammer again swears revenge, this time for the vicious murder of a girl he picked up on the road when she threw herself in front of his car. The revenge quests gets him embroiled with the mob and the chase for a mysterious case everybody will kill to get their bloody hands on. Despite the old-hat premise, this is another great, deliriously violent novel, and has the best finale in any of the Hammer novels. (The movie, however, did it one better with the most...ahem...explosive conclusion ever seen on screen.) It makes a fitting end to the original exploits of Mike Hammer. (Spillane wouldn't write another one until the 1960s.)<br />This volume contains a new introduction by mystery writer Lawrence Block, but he doesn't have much to say. He gives most of the space to quoting the opening paragraphs of each of the novels, and then makes a few quick remarks about Spillane's style coming from his days as comic book writer, and tells a little anecdote. (We find out that Spillane was a funny guy!). Disappointing overall; I expected one of today's top mystery novelists to have more to say about a legendary writer and character.<br />But you aren't buying this volume for Lawrence Block's introduction. You're buying it to read some of the best crime noir and violent detective fiction ever penned -- and that's what you get (well, two out three). Drop your 21st-century mindset for a while and get down in the gutter in Mike Hammer's world. It's an awful place, but it's a helluva interesting one.	2004-04-03
US	52921642	R1FBAP1PHVGLBU	0786711647	36464762	A Kiss Before Dying	Books	5	52	53	N	N	One of the best suspense novels outside of Cornell Woolrich!	Stephen King once commented about author Ira Levin: \\"Every novel he has ever written has been a marvel of plotting. He is the Swiss watchmaker of the suspense novel; he makes what the rest of us do look like those five-dollar watches you can buy in the discount drug stores.\\" He went on to lament that Levin's most effective book (and his first!), \\"A Kiss before Dying,\\" is not much read these days.<br />Here's your chance to fix this situation! \\"A Kiss before Dying\\" is now back in print, in a nice trade paperback, for the first time since the early 90s (when a mass-market paperback was briefly available to tie-in with the forgotten movie adaptation starring Sean Young and Matt Dillon). First published in 1953 when Levin was only twenty-three, \\"A Kiss before Dying\\" is one of the most remarkable suspense novels ever penned and a masterpiece of literary noir. The greatest suspense writer of all time, Cornell Woolrich, highly influenced Levin, and this book seems like an overt homage to many of Woolrich's devices. It's the only suspense novel I know of that honestly compares with the master.<br />To tell much about the plot would ruin the shocks and surprises awaiting you in these pages. Levin hurls out plot twists that genuinely jolt the reader and turn the whole story upside down in moments (King referred to one of the twists as \\"a real screeching bombsell\\" of a surprise). The story begins at a large college, where Dorothy Kingship, daughter of a wealthy industrialist, has learned that she is pregnant. Her boyfriend, a handsome, dashing, but callous, calculating, and completely amoral young man is unhappy with the news; he hoped to marry into the rich family as his quick ticket to success, and the uptight Leo Kingship will certainly disinherit his daughter when he finds out about the pregnancy. Dorothy wants to marry right away, not caring if her father cuts her off or not, but her boyfriend starts secretly devising another plan...if only he can make it look like suicide...<br />And that's merely the beginning. The book takes so many u-turns and switchbacks that you'll spend most of your time reading it shaking with tension. Levin crafts his three central set-pieces using minute detail that makes for agonizing suspense. He lets the reader in on the secrets of the story bit by bit, but the more you know, the tenser the story becomes. Sometimes, you know the WHAT and WHO of a situation, but not the WHEN or HOW. At other times, you know the WHAT and WHEN but not WHO. Levin will drive you nearly mad in places! King is right: Levin's plotting is so ingenious it's like workings of a perfect machine.<br />But beyond plot machinery, Levin dazzles in another area: characterizations. Like Woolrich, Levin can create haunting portraits of lonely souls, and frightening sketches of soulless killers. \\"A Kiss before Dying\\" is pure noir: a world of sad people aching for real love and of people who find that killing is no more difficult than putting on a jacket. This is not a \\"snack food\\" suspense novel like you find sitting on bestseller shelves. This is a novel that will stay with you for a long time.<br />It's unfortunate that Levin has written so few novels since (he didn't write his second novel, \\"Rosemary's Baby\\" until fourteen years later; he spent the time between as a writer for TV and Broadway stage). Everything he has written is worth reading (check out \\"The Stepford Wives,\\" \\"The Boys from Brazil,\\" \\"Sliver,\\" and his hit play &quot;Deathtrap&quot;), but \\"A Kiss before Dying\\" is his art at its best. Don't miss it.	2004-03-31
US	52921642	R2IF6K2NA1FTKD	0312863551	562507215	The Moon Is a Harsh Mistress	Books	5	428	434	N	N	A stunning achievement in hard-science and hard-politics	Written at the peak of Robert A. Heinlein's creative powers in the mid-sixties, \\"The Moon Is a Harsh Mistress\\" ranks with \\"Stranger in a Strange Land\\" as his most popular and acclaimed novel. Heinlein was furiously ingenious at this stage in his career, and this novel is an incredible feat of imagination, intellect, and writing talent. It is, however, a difficult and heavy novel (much like \\"Stranger in a Strange Land\\"), loaded with hard science and even harder politics: Heinlein at his best is a writer who attracts and repels the reader at the same time, and no one could read \\"The Moon Is a Harsh Mistress\\" without forming some very strong opinions about it.<br />The story follows a revolution on the lunar colonies against Earth authority. The lunar colony was originally a penal colony, but even though the lunar residents (\\"Loonies\\" as they call themselves) are no longer technically prisoners, they have become economic slaves of the Earth. Also, because of their adaptation to the Moon's lower gravity, they cannot safely return to live on Earth, so their exile is a permanent one. Amidst growing but unorganized discontent amongst the Loonies, four remarkable individuals begin the meticulous planning of a revolution to free the Moon: Mannie, an engineer and our narrator; Prof. de la Paz; fiery Wyoming \\"Wyoh\\" Knott; and a newly sentient supercomputer named Mike. Starting from this small group, the resistance spreads across the Moon. But how can the nearly defenseless colonists and miners face down the juggernaut of the nations of Earth? Mike has an ingenious solution: \\"Throw rocks at `em\\"...literally!<br />Told through Mannie's point of view, the novel is written in a clipped, abbreviated style that represents the Loonie version of English: many pronouns and articles are dropped, leading to sentences like: \\"Stomach was supposed to be empty. But I filled helmet with sourest, nastiest fluid you would ever go a long way to avoid.\\" This takes a few pages to get accustomed to, but soon you won't notice the odd style at all and accept it as part of the book's revolutionary spirit.<br />Heinlein unfolds the revolution in a meticulously detailed style, using lengthy conversations between the characters about how to step-by-step overthrow the authority of an overwhelming power. Heinlein not only provides in-depth details on the technology, but also of the philosophy of revolution and the unusual customs of the Loonies (such as their group marriages). Like most of Heinlein's great novels, this is a trip for the mind, and you have to be prepared to do plenty of thinking along with the passages of action. The novel does tend to drag somewhat in the middle, but the last hundred pages are feverish with both action and ideas.<br />Where Heinlein really triumphs in this novel is in the characterization of Mike the computer. Mike, along with Hal from \\"2001,\\" is one of great artificial intelligences in science fiction. You will quickly forget, as Mannie does, that Mike is a disembodied voice from a machine, and instead think of him (or sometimes `her') as another character. Mike's growth from his shaky beginnings as a thinking being is fascinating and one of Heinlein's great achievements as an author.<br />However, if you are new to Robert A. Heinlein (or science fiction in general), this isn't the novel to start with (and neither is \\"Stranger in a Strange Land\\"). You should ease yourself into Heinlein's brilliant mind first through his novels from the 1950s, most of which were aimed at teenagers but are nonetheless wonderful books that anyone can enjoy: \\"Have Space Suit -- Will Travel,\\" \\"Starman Jones,\\" and \\"Citizen of the Galaxy\\" are good places to start. Also recommended: \\"The Puppet Masters\\" and Heinlein's short stories from the 1930s and 40s collected in \\"The Man Who Sold the Moon\\" and \\"The Green Hills of Earth.\\" You should definitely read \\"The Moon Is a Harsh Mistress\\" -- it's an essential classic of the genre -- but you may need to build up to it. After all, as Loonies say: \\"TANSTAAFL!\\" (\\"There ain't no such thing as a free lunch!\\")	2004-03-30
US	52921642	R3HULACIQZ494L	0345431928	982777085	The Charwoman's Shadow (Del Rey Impact)	Books	5	11	11	N	Y	A classic of fantasy...come learn the magic of language!	Edward John Moreton Drax Plunkett, better and more succinctly known by his title, Lord Dunsany (pronounced \\"done-SANEY\\"), is perhaps the most important British fantasy author to appear before Tolkien. Lord Dunsany's work has little connection to Tolkien's except that both create feelings of wonder in readers that whisk them away to fantastic worlds. Dunsany's work has a less realistic, more ethereal quality than Tolkien's, and draws strongly on the traditional fairy-tale, while at that same time energizing the simplicity of the fairy-tale with his sense of drama (Dunsany was also a playwright) and with his magnificent, fluid, beautiful writing. His 1927 novel, \\"The Charwoman's Shadow,\\" is one of his greatest works, second only to \\"The King of Elfland's Daughter.\\"<br />Edward Plunkett was born in 1878, became the 18th Lord Dunsany upon the death of his father in 1899, and made an unsuccessful attempt to run for parliament in 1904. With his failure in politics, he began writing his stories of the fantastic, beginning with the collection (currently in-print) \\"The Gods of Pegana.\\" He enjoyed great literary success and acclaim until his death in 1957, but sadly, at the end of the century, his literature seemed in danger of vanishing from the minds of all but ardent fantasy historians and those who could afford the out-of-print volumes containing his work. But Dunsany has suddenly roared back into print; if you're a lover of fantasy, you cannot miss \\"The Charwoman's Shadow.\\" It ranks as one of finest novels of the fantastic.<br />The story takes place in a fantasy vision of medieval Spain: \\"Picture an evening sombre and sweet over Spain, the glittering sheen of leaves fading to somberer colours...Picture the Golden Age past its wonderful zenith, and westering now towards its setting.\\" Young Ramon Alonzo goes to learn the One True Art -- the art of magic -- from a master magician who lives in an old house in the woods. The Master requires a fee, however: Don Alonzo's shadow. The boy surrenders it, believing it is of no use to him. But even as he advances himself in the magic arts, he soon learns there are serious consequences to losing your shadow. An old charwoman who works for the Master seeks Don Alonzo's aid, for she too lost her shadow many years ago to the Master, and she desires it back. The two enter an alliance, one that Don Alonzo starts to regret when he discovers the youthful beauty of the old charwoman's shadow.<br />There are no action set-pieces in \\"The Charwoman's Shadow,\\" no epic battles, no swarms of monsters and demons, but every sequence in the book is full of unforgettable images and beauty. The scene of re-attaching the shadow makes the book a masterpiece on its own; it reduced me to tears the first time I read it. Lord Dunsany will remind you of no other writer, and you'll thrill to discover his unique take on fantasy, feeling if you were sharing a secret private encounter.<br />Dunsany's word magic pulses stronger than any of the actual magic that appears in the book. In fact, the book is really about the power of language itself; we spend time with Don Alonzo pouring over words and learning their secrets. As Peter S. Beagle (author of \\"The Last Unicorn\\") says in his brief but powerful introduction, Dunsany had \\"an understanding that the right name for a character can imply an entire culture, a history, a music, a world; that a single word chosen properly can persuade a reader that he shares a folklore he can't possibly know...To open this book is, like Don Ramon Alonzo, to begin learning the true nature of enchantment from a master.\\"<br />I can't give a better recommendation  than that, so I will only second him: open this book and fall deep into the fantasy of language.	2004-03-25
US	52921642	R1A78FCAO277YT	0684801051	607441444	Time and Again	Books	5	409	420	N	N	A classic of time travel, romance, and history	Author Jack Finney (1911-1995), among his other writing accomplishments, penned two great, influential science-fiction novels: the 1955 alien invasion story \\"The Body Snatchers,\\" the source for three great movies (with \\"Invasion of...\\" usually tacked onto the front), and this 1970 subtle romance about time travel. It's a novel that many people hold close to their hearts, and like the movie \\"Somewhere in Time,\\" has the magic to allure you with the wonder of traveling back to a simpler time -- 1880s New York in this case -- and exploring in depth a world so unlike your own. Finney, with meticulous detail and the support of numerous old photographs and drawings from the period (this is referred to as an \\"illustrated novel\\") recreates New York in 1882, letting us and the main character, Si Morley, marvel as we walk over the old streets, see places where one day great skyscrapers will stand, gaze on a traffic jam of hansom cabs, discover the arm of the Statue of Liberty sitting in Madison Square awaiting the rest of its body, play old parlor games in a boarding house, and look at Fifth Avenue when it was a thin street of trees and apartments. People who have lived in New York will especially adore these decriptions of the vanished city and the comparision Finney makes between the &quot;modern&quot; city (1970; vanished now to us as well) and the 1880s city. However, even if you've never been to New York in your life, you'll feel like you have after reading this. That's an incredible compliment to pay to a writer.<br />\\"Time and Again\\" won't please readers looking for quick action and thrills. It is a leisurely book that takes its time to build up the central situation: the U.S. government has found a possible method to travel back in time through purely mental means, and believes that young artist Si Morely fits the profile of the person who can achieve it. Once the books moves to the actual time traveling, the focus is mostly on the experience of being in another time and Si's discovery of how it affects him...especially when he feels he may be falling in love with a girl from the time. There is, however, a mystery simmering inside the story, and Si sets himself out to unravel it. What will the consequences be for history itself if he interferes? And what does the government really want to achieve with this project?<br />The last third of the book is tense and suspenseful, and contains an incredible and lengthy description of a disastrous event that ranks with the most vivid visual writing I've ever read. And the resolution is nothing short of perfect; Finney delivers the most satisfying conclusion. However, the book takes patience. Let Finney's prose, his wonderful main character Si, and his ability to pull you back in time with him sweep you away -- you won't regret it when the journey is over. Even if you never read science fiction or claim to dislike it, this is one book you'll find it difficult not to fall for.	2004-03-21
US	52921642	R3FRAZWVDE8DPV	0812971450	925731689	Rendezvous in Black (A Modern Library 20th Century Rediscovery)	Books	5	98	101	N	Y	Back in print! A masterpiece of suspense from the master!	At last! \\"Rendezvous in Black,\\" the greatest suspense novel from the greatest suspense writer of all time, Cornell Woolrich, is back in print in a handsome trade paperback edition. Do not pass up this chance to encounter one of the most startling, emotionally rattling, and beautifully written pieces of noir in American literature. \\"Rendezvous in Black\\" is nothing short of a masterpiece: strange, horrifying, sometimes illogical, stark, achingly poetic, and ultimately devastating.<br />Cornell Woolrich (1903-1968) was the father of noir. Originally an author of `disaffected youth' novels in the jazz era, Woolrich turned to suspense and mystery stories for the pulp magazines in the mid-thirties. In 1940 he wrote the novel \\"The Bride Wore Black,\\" kicking off a hugely creative period in which he wrote eleven novels (sometimes under the pseudonyms William Irish or George Hopely) between 1940 and 1948, concluding with \\"I Married a Dead Man\\" (available in the compilation \\"Crime Novels: American Noir of the 30s and 40s\\" and also one of his best works). Woolrich then entered a long phase of writer's block, turning out a few more novels and stories before he died an alcoholic recluse. His work is deeply concerned with doom and fate, people trapped in an uncaring world, the slow loss of love, and the inevitability of death. Through it all flows his incredible sense of pacing -- he can wring you dry with \\"races against the clock\\" that make your chest pound like race car piston -- and his stunning word magic that can break your heart with just a sentence.<br />\\"Rendezvous in Black\\" is the second-to-last novel of his major period, and it seems to return to the plot of \\"The Bride Wore Black\\"...at least on the surface. In \\"The Bride Wore Black,\\" a woman named Julie Kileen loses her husband to a bizarre accident on their wedding day. Julie then goes on a quest to track down the five men she believes are responsible for the accident, and kill them one by one after inserting herself into their lives. \\"Rendezvous in Black\\" reverses the sexes, and adds an extra twist. Johnny Marr, an anonymous, average young man, loses his fiancee a few days before their marriage in a weird, bolt-from-the-blue accident (the perfect Woolrich example of the random cruelty of the universe). Marr eventually snaps, and discovers the identities of the men he feels are responsible for the accident. He then seeks to slowly, meticulously track down each one, discover who the most important woman in the man's life is (daughter, wife, protege), and kill her, so that man will forever know the pain that he feels.<br />It's a grim, frightening premise. Woolrich repeats the episodic structure of \\"Bride\\": after the opening chapter introducing the main character and his quest, each chapter after that switches to the P.O.V. of the next person on Marr's `hit list.' But \\"Rendezvous\\" isn't just a rehash of \\"Bride.\\" As Woolrich's biographer, Francis M. Nevins, pointed out, it is \\"Bride\\" as it should have been, written with greater emotional involvement and deeper horror and suspense. It seems as if Woolrich was trying to correct the flaws of the earlier novel.<br />Correct them he does: \\"Rendezvous in Black\\" opens with a long, stunning chapter, \\"Parting,\\" that captures perfectly the horror of losing a loved one, and then contains one of best portraits I've ever read of a descent into insanity. It's one of Woolrich's best sustained pieces of emotional writing. Each chapter after that, Woolrich tortures us with the suspense as we meet the next target of Marr's horrid quest. Woolrich's use of suspense here is brilliant: as in Hitchcock, we know WHAT will happen, but never WHEN, HOW, or even WHO (which woman in the man's life is Marr's target?). Since we don't know what Marr looks like or what fake name he is using, we aren't even sure which man in the chapter is actually the killer! Meanwhile, the police start to string things together, and with each chapter, Woolrich screws down the suspense tighter and tighter. The second to last chapter is a massive race against death that will probably have you locked in a room reading with sweaty, shaking hands. Even though there are logic flaws in the story the size meteor craters (this is Woolrich's way of showing how universe's basic illogic and unfairness), you won't notice them. Woolrich holds you in an unbreakable spell.<br />Read this book. It is an American classic. You will never forget its power. And you'll encourage the publication of more Woolrich classics. Look forward to re-prints of \\"Black Alibi\\" and \\"Night Has a Thousand Eyes.\\" When you discover Cornell Woolrich, you will never be the same again.	2004-03-16
US	52921642	R2TN2LIS1BMANK	014250047X	441091353	The Sight	Books	4	29	32	N	N	A fine animal fantasy with a deeper message	\\"The Sight\\" is an animal fantasy in the tradition of Richard Adams's classic \\"Watership Down,\\" where the author crafts a mythological culture for a group of animals living alongside humans. Where Adams used rabbits in contemporary England, David Clement-Davies selects wolves (or `Vargs' as they call themselves) living in war-torn fifteenth-century Transylvania, during the reign of Vlad Dracula. It's an immediately intriguing concept, and Clement-Davies does some wonderful work with the exotic, gothic backdrop and the mysterious nature of wolves -- beautiful, tough, misunderstood animals that project an alluring magic that perfectly fits this type of tale.<br />But \\"The Sight\\" is far different from \\"Watership Down\\" in some important ways. Magic and the supernatural play a huge part in the story. The Sight of the title is a supernatural power granted to certain wolves; a kind of sixth sense, sensory projection, telepathy, and prophetic ability rolled into one. The wolf Morgra possesses the Sight, and from her hate plans to use it to fulfill a complex prophecy: summon a demonic entity called Wolfbane and create `the Man Varg,' a mysterious figure linked with a stolen human child. If the prophecy is fulfilled, Morgra can possess all of nature. Standing against her is another wolf who possesses the sight, young Larka, and her family. The plot moves through many turns as the extremely tricky prophecy propels the factions of wolves into wars against each other, plunges Larka's family into grief, and spirals closer and closer to a final confrontation between wolves, birds, men, and spirits of the dead.<br />\\"The Sight\\" is a busy and intricate book with a very dark tone, but it will appeal to intelligent younger readers who hunger for something more than simple fantasy. Clement-Davies lacks Richard Adams's wonderful myth-making skills; his mythological background for the wolves is sometimes too thickly layered and patchwork to be effective. The book also dips into a few toomany lengthy philosophical discussions between the wolves. Nonetheless, it's an excellent book and quite exciting. The finale ties the story into the history of humanity and ends up offering a moving lesson that reflects on our own world. \\"The Sight\\" seems to be about wolves, but David Clement-Davies has crafted a story with a deep meaning at its core. (He explains in an interesting afterward how this theme developed from his visit to Romania in 1990).<br />I highly recommend this fantasy novel to anyone who enjoyed \\"Watership Down,\\" the \\"Redwall\\" books, or Clement-Davies's previous animal-fantasy, \\"Fire Bringer.\\" Wolf lovers or anyone with a taste for the gothic will also enjoy this book.	2004-03-14
US	52921642	RUT4YEZWK12SC	0441787541	844645270	Storm Bringer (Elric Saga, Book 6)	Books	5	18	18	N	N	The saga concludes with one of fantasy's great novels	Michael Moorcock created the character of Elric, a doomed albino prince of a dying race who carries a cursed sword called Stormbringer in his wanderings throughout the Young Kingdoms of the humans, in the mid-sixties for \\"Science Fantasy Magazine.\\" Elric starred in a series of novellas, the last four of which were gathered together to create this single novel, \\"Stormbringer.\\" Although Moorcock has gone on to write many more novels featuring Elric, \\"Stormbringer is chronologically the last of the series; the albino prince meets his destiny and the world faces its fate in the eternal battle of law and chaos.<br />And the saga ends on its highest note; without a doubt, \\"Stormbringer\\" is one of the best of Michael Moorcock novels. Most fans consider this finale the best in the series. Even though it was originally published as four novellas, the parts flow together in one concentrated epic of sorcerery, horror, and war. The storyline has the the Theocrat of Pan Tang, Jagreed Lern, ally himself with the Dukes of Hell to spread Chaos across the Earth, warping it in nightmarish ways. Leading the seemingly hopeless struggle against the conquerors, Elric comes to understand finally the destiny appointed him, and that the fate of the entire world -- and the one that will follow it -- rests on his own, hideous sacrifice. <br />Moorcock's imagination here is feverish and grotesque, the battles sequences are epic and thrilling, and the language is poetic and deeply tragic. Everything that has come before in the saga of Elric (principally in the five earlier novellas that make up \\"The Werid of the White Wolf\\" and \\"The Bane of the Black Sword,\\" as well as the 1972 prequel novel \\"Elric of Melniboné\\") crashes together for the cosmic, cathartic conclusion. This stands easily amongst the best fantasy novels ever written, and fine example of dark, philosophic fantasy filled with imagery that you will never forget.	2004-03-10
US	52921642	R346E5KTYFHNQO	0441203981	305128953	Elric of Melnibone 1	Books	5	33	35	N	N	It begins here, one of the great dark fantasies.	Michael Moorcock created the character of Elric, a doomed albino prince of a dying race who carries a cursed sword called Stormbringer in his wanderings throughout the Young Kingdoms of the humans, in the mid-sixties for \\"Science Fantasy Magazine.\\" Elric starred in a series of novellas which brought his saga to its apocalyptic conclusion in the novel \\"Stormbringer.\\" However, the popularity of the character made Moorcock write many prequel novels detailing other adventures of the albino prince, and he shows no sign of stopping. This novel, written in 1972, the chronologically the very first episode in the Elric Saga. If you are new to Elric, this is the place to start.<br />The fast-moving, always creative story passes through three \\"acts\\" that take Elric from the weakened Emperor of dying Melniboné, a kingdom of inhuman, cruel people, to the start of his lonely sojourn in the Young Kingdoms (which will occupy the rest of his adventures). The tragic arc of the saga is established here: Elric pledges his service to the God of Chaos, Arioch, and takes possession of the treacherous sword Stormbringer. Moorcock's writing is breathlessly beautiful and intense, especially when he describes the decadent magnificence of the casually cruel Kingdom of Melniboné and the splendor of its capital city. The action is also brilliant and constantly inventive, especially the sequences involving ships trying to navigate the maze that protects the harbor of the capital of Melniboné. And through it all is the wonderful, brooding hero of Elric, one of the greatest creations in all of fantasy.<br />This is the place to start to experience one of the great, unusual, and philosophical fantasy series ever written.	2004-03-10
US	52921642	R22BX5AGE1AYHL	0140370048	37560065	Three by the Sea (Penguin Young Readers, Level 3)	Books	5	16	16	N	N	Fun story, great humor, and a wonderful teaching tool!	\\"Three by the Sea,\\" from the classic children's book team of the Marshalls, is a wonderful book for second grade readers (or advanced first graders) that offers up a funny story with a humorous sense of parody. This is a children's book that actually makes fun of children's books. Any young reader who is sick and tired of 'basal readers' (you know, those dull, \\"The man has a tan can; The dog is on the log,\\" kind of books) will love this story. But best of all, adults will enjoy reading it along with their child. This is a perfect book to experience with your child to help them learn to read on their own. (I used to teach second graders how to read, and this was always their favorite book - they really got into it and loved reading it out loud along with me as we acted it out.)<br />The book follows three children, Lolly, Spider, and Sam, as they sit on the beach and tell each other stories, with each child trying to out-do the others. The three stories they tell are all gems:<br />LOLLY'S STORY: A parody of the typical boring school reader. Nothing happens. A Cat and a Dog see a Rat. That's it. Spider and Sam don't like the story one bit, but it's extremely funny to read the simplistic, dull writing style and look at the stick-figure pictures. You can have fun with your child by reading this out loud in the most boring monotone voice you can, and then ask them if they thought it was a good story. They'll agree with Spider and Sam. It's BAAAAD!<br />SAM'S STORY: Challenged by Lolly to come up with something better - as long as it has a cat and rat in it - Sam creates this funny little story about a very foolish rat who buys a cat at a pet store. The cat won't tell the rat what it is that he really likes to eat... You can have great fun with this story by having your child read the parts out loud and giving the cat and rat different voices. You can also ask them to try to predict what might happen. What do YOU think the cat really likes to eat? (You're in for a funnysurprise.)<br />SPIDER'S STORY. Well, Spider didn't like the twist ending to Sam's story, so he offers up his own cat-rat tale...and he'll make it SCARY as well! With great, serious drama, a rather silly-looking Godzilla-like monster rises from the sea (\\"And he was really mean!\\") Is he hungry for...a rat? No! Cheese? No! A cat? No! He likes kids...on toast!...and in fact he sees three kids sitting on the beach telling stories... This is a really fun piece to read out loud with spooky voices, and the repetition of phrases make it a great one for your child to practice reading on his or her own. Provide a big scary voice for the narrator, and your child will be laughing hysterically. (Don't worry, though. It all comes out all right in the end, and who can take the funny illustrations seriously? This is one goofy looking monster, especially when walking on his tip-toes!)<br />I can't recommend this book highly enough for second graders. You'll have fun reading it along with them, and it teaches great reading skills while offering up something much different from the usual run-of-the-mill kids story. A terrific tool for teaching at home and having quality educational time and play time with your child. Just watch out for those really mean monsters.<br />And that is that!	2004-03-09
US	52921642	R1C5JHDPZ7VGRE	0915230410	555001013	The Mouse in the Mountain (Rue Morgue Vintage Gumshoe Mystery)	Books	5	13	13	N	Y	Hardboiled hilarity from a forgotten master! Super Dog P.I.!	Norbert Davis is an almost forgotten hardboiled mystery writer for the pulp magazines who flourished in the 1940s. Davis had an incredible talent for combining the tough, violent pulp mystery style originally created by Dashiell Hammett with the screwball comedy of a Preston Sturges movie. Tough bruisers and back-stabbing dames mix it up with assoerted nutcases, obnoxious kids, goofy waiters, and English mangling bus-drivers. (Davis's own world apparently wasn't so hilarious: he committed suicide in the summer of 1949.)<br />Some of Davis's terrific stories were available in a recent volume, \\"The Adventures of Max Latin,\\" now about of print and expensive to find used. Thankfully, a small mystery press, The Rue Morgue Press, has put out this re-print of Davis's 1943 novel, \\"The Mouse in the Mountain.\\" It's the first of three books Davis wrote about an unusual detective team: pudgy P.I. Doan and his partner Carstairs -- who happens to be an enormous Great Dane. Carstairs ain't no animal sidekick, and he's no wimpy Scooby-Doo: he's the dominant member of the partnership, cool under pressure, nobody to mess with, and constantly saving Doan from trouble.<br />This novel takes Doan and Carstairs to the tiny Mexican town of Los Altos, apparently to convince a possible informer to stay put. Along on the trip is a gaggle of typical Davis comic creations: pretty Janet Martin, fascinated with the history of Los Altos and the romantic explorer who chronicled it; toilet salesman Henshaw, his crabby wife, and obnoxious little son Mortimer; Patricia van Odsel, glamorous heir to a flypaper fortune, and her gigolo Greg and maid Maria; and the rude and domineering Captain Emile Perona, looking for a fugitive of his own. Soon, an earthquake strikes (wonderfully, vividly described) cutting off the town from the rest of the world, fugitives with dark secrets and assassination on their minds start crawling out of the rocks, and certain people end up dead. Who's the killer? What are the strange secrets buried in the crumbling buildings of Los Altos? Will Henshaw manage to sell a new toilet to the grouchy hotel owner? Will Carstairs sitting on Henshaw's awful brat Mortimer ever shut the kid up? Learn all these answers and more in this hilarious, fast-paced mystery from a forgotten master!<br />The book also contains a helpful introduction about Norbert Davis's life and his unique style, a funny and helpful cast of characters, and the original back of the 1943 book jacket, urging readers to buy War Bonds -- a great way to get you in the right frame of mind for a hardboiled mystery set during the war years.<br />Get a copy today before Rue Morgue Press runs out of them! Also look for the sequel, \\"Sally's in the Alley.\\"	2004-03-08
US	52921642	R33I67WEQUHW2V	0812524934	587381735	Conan and the Amazon	Books	2	8	9	N	N	A lesser Conan book from one of the better writers	John Maddox Roberts is one of the better authors to take on Robert E. Howard's legendary creation Conan the Cimmerian; he writes well and seems to have a good grip on the personality of Conan. However, this last (so far) of his Conan novels ranks as one of his lesser efforts. Perhaps he had grown tired of the character after ten years and eight novels. <br />The plot has Conan joining forces with the exiled queen of the Amazons, Achilea, on a mysterious quest to find a lost city deep in the deserts. It isn't a terribly original idea, although the city of Jangar has some surprises in it more in line with Michael Moorcock's Elric books than Robert E. Howard's Conan. Roberts writes with skill, but the story moves too slowly, with very little action in the first two-hundred pages, most of which is a weary trudge through uninhabited lands interrupted with long speeches about the history of Jangar from various characters. Considering the promise of the title, the sexual sparks that should fly between Conan and Achilea never develop to much, and they spend most of the novel at arm's length. The ending arrives far too abruptly as well, although the coda is actually quite touching and the closest that Roberts gets in the book to approaching the true feeling of Robert E. Howard's Conan. <br />There are a few exciting sequences, such as a fight with a giant crocodile in a flooded arena beneath the lost city. (I can be a real sucker for the simple pleasures of big monsters.) Conan trying to escape from inside of a giant idol while being chased is also a tense read. But otherwise, \\"Conan and the Amazon\\" is a lot of walk and talk. Read some of Roberts's earlier Conan work, like \\"Conan the Valorous.\\" Or better yet, just stick with Robert E. Howard's original stories in the now available \\"The Coming of Conan the Cimmerian.\\"	2004-03-04
US	52921642	R2ME7OOQFIC49C	0765300540	988373824	The Solar Queen (Norton, Andre)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Some of Norton's best work: two great space adventures	Praise Tor Books for bringing out this handsome edition of two of Andre Norton's earliest science fiction novels! This single volume contains the first two books in the \\"Solar Queen\\" series about interplanetary Free Traders: \\"Sargasso of Space\\" and \\"Plague Ship.\\" It's a handsome book, with a wonderful cover by Julie Bell and a jacket design that recalls the spirit of 1950s science fiction with all its wonder and fun. And that's exactly what Ms. Norton delivers in these two fine books. <br />Andre Norton today is best known for her fantasy novels, but she started out in space opera, and I personally prefer these to her work in fantasy; and the \\"Solar Queen\\"  books contain some of her best work in the science-fiction field. Science fiction fans shouldn't miss this opportunity to read these great adventures. The storytelling here is pure, the adventures straightforward but fantastically constructed. Like Robert Heinlein's novels of the same period, Norton's books never talk down to her intended audience of teenagers, and adults enjoy her books as much as the younger readers. You're guaranteed to get lost in the wonder and excitement of the voyages of the intrepid Solar Queen and its crew of rugged individualist in their quest to get the best trade deals the galaxy can offer. Although the novels can be read independent of each other, the first book directly sets-up the next, so you can read both together as one novel.<br />The first novel, SARGASSO OF SPACE (1955) introduces our hero, Dane Thorsen, as he receives his first trading assignment as an apprentice cargo master on an independent trading ship, the Solar Queen. The ship obtains the exploration and trading rights to the barren planet of Limbo, which turns out to be a perilous place where a mysterious force has pulled other ships to its surface and destroyed them. The Solar Queen cannot lift off, and hidden enemy forces want to destroy her. The action and mystery never stop in this fast, headfirst thriller. <br />But the second novel, PLAGUE SHIP (1956) is even better, and one of Norton's finest works. After a slow start on the planet Sargol, where the Solar Queen competes with corporate traders for the rights to trade perfumed jewels with the feline natives, the book slams into warp speed when a bizarre illness infects the ship. The few unaffected crewmembers must resort to one desperate measure after another to not only trace down the source of the infection, but also find a way not to be declared a `plague ship' and get blasted out of the sky by the Patrol. The novel jumps from tense scene to tense scene, with constantly changing locales, new dangers in every chapter, and characters taking one huge gamble after another right up to the nail-biter of a conclusion. Space adventure doesn't get much better than this.<br />Andre Norton knows how to tell a tale, and she lets story speak for itself; they really don't write them like this anymore. All science fiction fans should get a hold of this great volume, and if you've got a young teen son, daughter, niece, or nephew who's showing an interest in science fiction, giving this to them as a gift will hook them for sure.<br />And there's more to come. The end of PLAGUE SHIP sets up the sequel, POSTMARKED THE STARS, and it will soon appear in another volume from Tor of the Solar Queen's further adventures, along with the fourth novel, VOODOO PLANET. Keep a look out!	2004-02-29
US	52921642	RQ6I0JVP90AN2	038072345X	736730873	ANNO DRACULA                PB	Books	5	42	46	N	N	Excellent alternative-history and dark fantasy	At the moment I write this, Kim Newman's \\"Anno Dracula\\" is out of print. (Hopefully, by the time you read this, it will be available again.) It baffles me that such a wonderful recent novel (1992) could easily slip out of publication, especially when it is still very popular: apparently used bookstores can't keep this one their shelves for more then a day. With the huge success of Alan Moore's graphic novel \\"The League of Extraordinary Gentlemen\\" you would think this similar blending of Victorian personages, both historical and fictional, would widely available. This is really the dark fantasy version of Moore's heroic graphic novel, and anyone who enjoys either 1) alternative history, 2) vampire novels, or 3) dark fantasy will adore this book and never let their copy out of their greedy reading hands.<br />Mr. Newman imagines Victorian England if the bloodsucking count had been the victor in Dracula. The Count marries Queen Victoria and becomes ruler of an England rapidly becoming the territory of `new-born' vampires, who seek to be `turned' so they can rise in rank. Dracula opens up a reign of terror reminiscent of a medieval monarchy, yet still filled with traditional British Vicotrian attitudes. It's a delightful mixed brew of history and gothic darkness.<br />Into this thrilling setting slinks Jack the Ripper (also known as `Silver Knife'), slashing vampire girls in Whitechapel. Charles Beauregard, a human (or a 'warm' in vampire terms) who works for a secret society, and Genevieve, a vampire of an ancient boodline who has great distate for Dracula's reign both search for the murderer. Coming from two different angles, they join forces to try to fathom the mystery of the killings. Their invesitgation will lead to repercussions for all of this topsy-turvy, nightmare  version of England. <br />\\"Anno Dracula\\" is an extraordinary feat of imagination: bloody, violent, erotic, and chock-full of historical and fictional guest stars: Oscar Wilde, Arthur Holmwood, HenryJekyll, Jack the Ripper, Dr. Moreau, Danny Dravot (from Kipling's \\"The Man Who Would be King\\"), Professor Moriarty, George Bernard Shaw, etc. Even a quick mention of Lewis Carroll and Allan Quartermain! It's a Victorian literature lover`s dream come true -- and one for any fan of dark, exciting, BLOODY good fantasy and horror. Look for a copy, and let's hope it will be back in print soon!	2004-02-21
US	52921642	R3Q6XTBA5I43DX	0345335465	496469815	Dragonflight (Dragonriders of Pern - Volume 1)	Books	5	122	128	N	N	Not just for young adults -- a great science fiction novel!	This book begins Anne McCaffrey's wonderful long-running series, \\"The Dragonriders of Pern.\\" Although sold as a book for young adults and looking on the surface like a fantasy novel, \\"Dragonflight\\" is actually neither. Certainly, teenagers will (and do) love this book, but McCaffrey's work is mature and complicated enough for older readers of science fiction and fantasy to enjoy it on the same level as they would any work from an author of \\"mature\\" novels. And although the word \\"dragon\\" conjures up images of heroic fantasy, \\"Dragonflight\\" is actually science fiction: it only wears the outer clothing of fantasy. New readers will find this a surprise, as they learn that Pern isn't a \\"neverland\\" fantasy world, but an Earth-colonized planet; that the dragons are the native alien species who consume special minerals to chemically create their fire-breath; and that the evil menace that threatens the planet -- the \\"threads\\" -- are not supernatural monsters, but spores migrating from another planet that passes near Pern. Perhaps most surprising for a new reader is the focus on time-travel and time paradoxes; some of the most exciting parts of the book deal with the complexities, dangers, and potentials of time-travel.<br />The story takes place as Pern nears another invasion from the threads, but the planet is unprepared. Many people no longer believe in the threads (it has been hundreds of \\"turns\\" since the last attack), and there are fewer dragon dens (called \\"weyrs\\") than there once were to produce the creatures who can destroy the threads. Dragonrider T'Lar searches for a Weyrwoman to help him replenish the dragons before it is too late and unit the dragonriders to face the invasion. <br />This only scratches the surface of a tale full of suprises and unexpted turns. McCaffrey builds an intriguing world and wonderful characters, and each section of the book bursts with new revelations and plot turns. \\"Dragonflight\\" is not at all what you expect it to be...and that's anextremely high recommendation in these time when most science fiction and fantasy advertised for younger readers is bland and predictable. <br />This book also sets up the excellent second novel, \\"Dragonquest,\\" which you will definitely want to read after this terrific book. Recommend for all fantasy and science fiction fans who have yet to take a wild trip on the back of Pernse bronze dragon.	2004-02-17
US	52921642	R11B11FT49Y46Q	0812575741	546958481	Bios	Books	4	5	5	N	Y	Excellent hard science fiction/medical/adventure thriller	Robert Charles Wilson's \\"Bios\\" combines hard science fiction with the medical thriller, and produces it all in a compact, thrilling package. Instead of a lumbering 500+ page doorstop, Wilson tells his exciting story in just over 200 breezy pages. Trust me, you will zoom through this one; it's compulsively exciting reading from page one, and Wilson writes in an easily readable style that keeps the reader hooked.<br />The story takes place in a realistic (but thankfully not over-described) future where Earth is trying to colonize environmentally hostile planets outside of the solar system. The planet Isis is the current target, a planet teaming with life but without any alien civilizations except the strange tool using \\"diggers,\\" who seem more like animals. Isis is lethal to humans, since it is full of pathogens that kill with the slightest contact (I believe Wilson borrowed this idea from Stanley Weinbaum's classic 1930s story \\"Parasite Planet\\"). To the hostile world Isis comes Zoe Fisher, genetically engineered to survive the planet's environment -- but also containing a few surprises inside her as well that neither she nor her handlers are aware of. Soon, Zoe is caught in a political conflict between bickering Earth groups and facae her own emerging feelings toward one of her superiors. And, quite suddenly, it seems as if Isis itself is striking back at the colonial effort, trying to destroy it utterly. What is the secret of this bizarre planet, and what can it tell us and Zoe about the nature of life in the universe? <br />Zoe Fisher is one of the best heroines to appear in a modern science fiction novel, overcoming many of the clichés of the genre and emerging as an intriguing mystery. Reading about her discovering both of Isis and herself is the real heartbeat of the book, and her relationship with Tam is both realistic and deeply touching.<br />Wilson provides in-depth descriptions of the medical aspects of Isis and the mechanics of the colonization, but they're easily understandable and exciting reading to people (like me, for example) without a medical background. He never lets these details slow down the pace of the story, as many lesser science-fiction writers might, but uses them to prod on the character story into the growing suspense and action. The last half of the book is a desperate, action-filled rushed.<br />If you've enjoyed books by Michael Crichton and Robin Cook, but have never ventured into the more hardcore world of science fiction writing, \\"Bios\\" would be a good novel for you to start with, and will open up new worlds for you, not just Isis. And fans of science fiction who haven't yet read Wilson should rush out and get a copy of this now; he's one of the current great authors (and read his superb \\"Darwinia\\" as well).	2004-02-09
US	52921642	R3ILXXLFYLP5Y9	0380014033	772010642	Lord of Light	Books	5	91	95	N	N	Difficult but incredibly rewarding classic	This Hugo award-winning science fiction classic turns the usual technological approach to the genre on its head. \\"Lord of Light\\" reads much more like fantasy than science fiction, and like Frank Herbert's classic \\"Dune,\\" it's a rare example of a science-fiction novel deeply concerned with spirituality and metaphysics.<br />It is also a difficult novel. Readers more interested in adventure or hard science fiction will find Zelazny's dense, intricate style tricky to maneuver or concentrate on. The cast is huge, and most characters either go by multiple names, or switch names and bodies as they are reincarnated. This is the sort of novel that requires focus and attention to appreciate. Those who give it the time it deserves will discover a true classic, and a strange experience unique among science-fiction books-even for Zelazny, who lead the field of the new-wave authors of the 1960s.<br />The story follows the inhabitants of an Earth-colonized planet long after Earth has ceased to exist. The colonial leaders have developed the technology to turn themselves into god-like figures, based on Hinduism, and rule the lesser people in a metaphysical tyranny. The hero, Sam (only one of his many names, such a Buddah) returns from banishment to lead the struggle to free the people and spread technology to make everyone \\"gods.\\" He finds strange allies along the road, including the original alien inhabitants of the planet, known as Rakashas (demons) in the pseudo-religion invented by the rulers. In a short space, a great deal happens and Sam wages both war and peace against the \\"gods.\\"<br />\\"Lord of Light\\" is definitely a trip...and milestone in science fiction, but it isn't for the casual fan. People interested in religion and veteran science-fiction readers will get the most out of it, and should definitely get themselves a copy. For somewhat more accessible Zelazny books to start with, try \\"Damnation Alley\\" or his large fantasy series, \\"The Books of Amber\\"-but you'll need to visit \\"Lord of Light\\" eventually; it's his best novel.	2004-02-02
US	52921642	R1VPK0N9Z61CF	0786712910	831690285	Night and Fear: A Centenary Collection of Stories by Cornell Woolrich (Otto Penzler Book)	Books	5	44	44	N	Y	More thrilling stories from the master of suspense	(First, a correction. There are fourteen stories in this collection,  not twenty.)<br />Cornell Woolrich was America's best suspense author, spinning out for the pulps a string of dark noir tales that pulse with fear, dread, and paranoia. He can put the fear of death into you so that your hands shake as you read the page. But he can also move you to tears with his deep sense of human tragedy and emotional devastation. There never was anyone like him, and if you've never read him -- you have no idea what genius you are missing.<br />This volume contains a number of gems never before published in book form, so for Woolrich fans, this is a must buy. New readers may wish to begin with the collection &quot;Rear Window,&quot; but will still get a great Woolrich experience with this collection.<br />Here are the contents:<BR>1. Cigarette<BR>2. Double Feature<BR>3. The Heavy Sugar<BR>4. Blue is for Bravery<BR>5. You Bet Your Life<BR>6. Death in the Yoshiwara<BR>7. Endicott's Girl<BR>8. Detective William Brown<BR>9. The Case of the Killer-Diller<BR>10. Through a Dead Man's Eye<BR>11. The Fatal Footlights<BR>12. Three Kills for One<BR>13. The Death Rose<BR>14. New York Blues<br />All the stories are great (the editor is a Woolrich expert and knows what works), but here are some of the stand-outs. &quot;Endicott's Girl,&quot; which Woolrich once listed as his personal favorite story, is an emotional wringer about a cop who begins to suspect that his beloved teenage daughter is a murderer. Obsessed cops also populate &quot;Three Kills for One&quot; and &quot;Detective William Brown.&quot; The first story is bizarre, disturbing, and edging on the psychotic -- I'm so glad this collection is making it easily available again. &quot;Cigarette&quot; will have you on the edge of your reading chair as a poison cigarette is passed from person to person -- who will finally take the fatal puff? &quot;Double Feature&quot; and &quot;Death in the Yoshiwara&quot; are action packed suspensers.<br />But the best tale is the last one, &quot;New York Blues.&quot; It might have been Woolrich's last story, and it's a fitting end. It's almost abstract, plotless, but filled with pain and fear and a sense of impending doom that is impossible to shake. You will never forget this story.<br />Editor Francis M. Nevins offers an informative introduction which will bring new readers into Woolrich's life and world (both very depressing places). He also offers epilogues to each story to help place them in Woolrich's canon, and shed light on his work.<br />NIGHT AND FEAR -- buy it. Get yout friends to buy it. Let's get more Woolrich in print. And watch for his best novel, &quot;Rendezvous in Black,&quot; coming back into print in March!	2004-01-29
US	52921642	R1O9J1JS10OCW8	0345461517	764534415	The Coming of Conan the Cimmerian: The Original Adventures of the Greatest Sword and Sorcery Hero of All Time!	Books	5	281	285	N	N	BACK IN PRINT -- Robert E. Howard's great creation!	If you're a fan of fantasy author Robert E. Howard, who wrote for the pulps in the 1920s and 30s, rejoice! His stories of the great barbarian adventurer Conan are coming back in print, without unnecessary editing. These are the original texts.<br />If you enjoy fantasy, but have never read either Howard or Conan -- BUY THIS NOW. It is a must for lovers of fantasy. Banish any notions you have of Conan in other media: movies, comics, books by other authors. Howard's Conan is a stunning, unique creation. At turns bloody thrilling, filled with passionate rushes of action, at other times brooding and beautiful, sweeping you off to strange vistas. Howard was a one of a kind author, an American great, and with Conan he was at his best.<br />This first volume covers the first third of Howard's Conan stories, presented in the order they were written. The included stories are (in order):<br />1. The Phoenix on the Sword<BR>2. The Frost-Giant's Daughter<BR>3. The God in the Bowl<BR>4. The Tower of the Elephant<BR>5. The Scarlet Citadel<BR>6. Queen of the Black Coast<BR>7. Black Colossus<BR>8. Iron Shadows in the Moon (aka Shadows in the Moonlight)<BR>9. Xuthal of the Dusk (aka The Slithering Shadow)<BR>10. The Pool of the Black One<BR>11. The Vale of Lost Women<BR>12. The Devil in Iron<BR>13. The Phoenix on the Sword (first submitted draft)<br />Plus a number of fragments and outlines, and Howard's guide to Conan's world: &quot;The Hyborian Age.&quot;<br />All the stories are enjoyable, although a few are minor entries in the Conan canon. The superior works are &quot;The Tower of the Elephant,&quot; &quot;The Scarlet Citadel,&quot; &quot;The Frost-Giant's Daughter,&quot; and &quot;Queen of the Black Coast.&quot; The last story is the gem of the collection: a grand romantic tragedy that you will never forget. This is one of Howard's ultimate great works.<br />The volume comes with a treasure trove of supporting material: illustrations by Mark Schultz that have a unique take onthe character; an informative introduction and very detailed appendicies that go into the history of how Howard wrote the stories and some of his sources, and textual notes for the truly obsessed.<br />This is simply a superb collection: long-time fans and first time readers will all find something to treasure in this salute to one of the major authors and founders of modern fantasy.	2004-01-29
US	52921642	RXEUVP9ADFJFV	0812542460	854219893	Conan the Victorious	Books	2	9	10	N	N	Disappointing last Conan novel from Jordan	Robert Jordan has written some of the better of the Conans published by Tor, starting with one of my favorites, &quot;Conan the Invincible,&quot; which had the feel of a new author bursting with enthusiasm over a favorite character. But &quot;Conan the Victorious,&quot; Jordan's seventh Conan novel (counting the novelization of Conan the Destroyer) falls far below his standards. Jordan ceased writing Conan after this novel. Perhaps he had become bored with the series, and if so, the malaise definitely overwhelms him here. <br />Whatever the reason, Jordan's last date with Robert E. Howard's literary child subtly disappoints. It is overstuffed with political intrigue and double-crosses and not enough adventure, magic, or the exotic. This is especially disappointing since it takes place mostly in Vendhya, Howard's fantasy version of India seen in \\"The People of the Black Circle\\"; if any locale should feel exotic, it should be this one. It's true that political maneuvering has an important place in many of Robert E. Howard's Conan works as well as his historical adventure stories for Oriental Stories/Magic Carpet, but Jordan lets an avalanche of scheming slow down the pace of the story. (A good comparison would be with Howard's &quot;Hawks over Egypt&quot;¸which staggers under too much intrigue in too little space, but that was a work Howard didn't sell in his lifetime.) Any short synopsis can't begin to explain the extra characters and subplots that clog up &quot;Conan the Victorious&quot;. With so many characters and plots and counterplots, the novel relies heavily on information exchange between characters instead of action and movement. Many of the subplots get a short shrift, and the details fade over the long stretches while the other storylines compete for space. When the pay-offs for some of the subplots come due, they have marginal effect and seem as if the author merely forgot about them until he suddenly needed them for the finale. <br />These problems would become symptomatic of many of the pastiches to come: too much plot, too little development, and a limp finale. In this case, the ending is particularly weak. The demon and the army of the dead are too rapidly disposed of in the quick rush to the last chapter, and the coda fails to patch up the numerous plot holes and story points that Jordan dashed over earlier. Jordan's Conan career started so promisingly in the fast and imaginative &quot;Conan the Invincible,&quot; but by this last novel, his party with the Cimmerian had definitely come to a bleary end.<br />Fortunately, the next novel, &quot;Conan the Valorous,&quot; introduced author John Maddox Roberts, who would pen some of the better pastiche novels.	2004-01-28
US	52921642	RDX1MLR5J4NBA	0671721860	387107544	Three Hearts and Three Lions	Books	5	47	50	N	Y	More awesome fantasy from the late, great Poul Anderson	Although Poul Anderson (who died in early 2001 after a long, distinguished career) wrote the majority of his books in the science fiction genre, he also turned out excellent work in fantasy as well. His best in this vein is the astonishing, but hard to find today, THE BROKEN SWORD. But he personally preferred this more light-hearted romp, THREE HEARTS AND THREE LIONS, first published in 1953. It a fun and incredibly clever look into the nature of fantasy itself, as a rationalist from the 20th century is plunged into a fantasy world, where he finds his scientific knowledge and straight-forward approach actually help him, not hinder him.<br />Chapter after chapter is filled with clever devices, funny characters, and exciting action. (The idea for D&D trolls was borrowed from this book, by the way.) The ending is a surprise as well -- not quite what you would expect considering the tone of the rest of the book, and yet completely appropriate and raises the book beyond mere light entertainment.<br />I recommend this book to any fantasy lover (it had a huge effect on many other authors, especially Michael Moorcock and his Elric novels), but I especially think that young adults who are just discovering fantasy literature will absolutely fall in love with this book: charm, humor, action, a great hero, a speedy read, and something to think about at the end. What more could you ask for?	2004-01-18
US	52921642	R3DJA0V3IYL1PH	0345348036	544398776	The Princess Bride: S Morgenstern's Classic Tale of True Love and High Adventure	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Classic story about the art of storytelling	Goldman's 1973 novel has more \\"storytelling\\" than \\"story\\" to it. Although the popular movie version makes the adventures of Buttercup, Westley, and Prince Humperdink familiar to the reader, the novel might surprise them. The true story here is about a semi-fictional William Goldman (with fake wife and child) struggling to come to terms with the personal meaning locked inside a lumbering satire from wholly fictitious author S. Morgenstern. The fake \\"Morgenstern\\" novel _Princess Bride_, so Goldman inform us, is a satire on monarchy that he has stripped down into a romance on true love. Reading the novel, you can both embrace the innocence of its love story and enjoy the irony of how love rarely works in reality. <br />The movie adaptation believes in true love much more than the book does, mostly because Buttercup and Westley come across as sweeter, smarter characters than they do here, where Goldman plays them into fairy tale devices (Buttercup seems quite naïve and foolish). The multiple layers of the book make for a fascinating, and often damn hilarious, narrative experience. Rarely has story shown so many faces to a reader through one volume. Worth many re-readings because of its complex layers.	2004-01-17
US	52921642	R2ZNHJUS2PLI8I	0060510862	223407615	Forever War, The	Books	5	181	199	N	Y	Space opera with a humanistic heart. Superb!	Haldeman originally wrote this novel as an allegory of the Vietnam war, told through the eyes of a reluctant soldier caught up in a battle that never seemed to end, while the world he left behind changed drastically. However, it applies to all wars, in any time, and the book has never lost its timeliness.<br />Main character William Mandella serves in the war against the mysterious Taurans, which, because of time dilation udring his spaceship travels, lasts for seven hundred years while Mandella ages only ten. Earth alters, lifestyles completely change, and Mandella wonders the purpose of the senseless warfare. <br />Although specifically allegorical, Haldeman's novel is powerful enough to apply to all combat. In a way, this could be seen as the opposite to Heinlein's _Starship Troopers_, with reluctant soldiers caught in purposeless combat, and a hero who is neither more skilled or heroic than any other solider around him-he has merely lasted longer than the others. The book has many great touching moments in between the furious combat scenes (a few of which are confusing), such a Mandella's separation from his love Marygay Potter, and a sad return to an Earth that has aged beyond their understanding. <br />A deserving classic of many awards, and I'm sure it will never age as long as warfare is still with us.	2004-01-17
US	52921642	R2CNOC7FABUSOD	0345455738	448911863	Shatterpoint (Star Wars: Clone Wars Novel)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Best Star Wars novel I've come across	I find the Star Wars novels to be usually brain candy to read in-between other science fiction novels, but this one surprised me. It's rough, violent, and takes extreme chances. Damn, it's good, and not just as a Star Wars novel.<br />Stover comes highly recommended in the field because of his violent, \\"next-wave\\" style (read his novel \\"Heroes Die\\" for a really different brand of fantasy), and he doesn't disappoint in what must be the darkest, most brutal, tortured Star Wars novel I've read. Mace Windu takes center stage in a \\"Heart of Darkness\\" inspired tale on a war-torn planet (his birthplace) to find his vanished former padawan Depa Billaba, who might have gone insane from the hideousness of the conflict. The action comes almost non-stop, nearly reaching an overkill in the last third, but too much excitement is hardly a complaint, now is it? <br />But Stover also confronts the basic Jedi conflict of keepers of the peace facing the horrors of war where 'good' and 'bad' no longer have much meaning. At every turn, Stover emphasizes the bleakness of warfare and retreats from the usual Star Wars black-and-white dramatics. It's a refreshing shift of view that sheds light on the prequel movies. Great stuff! If you've never bothered to pick up a Star Wars novel because you think they're only for teenage boys, this volume will change your mind. <br />Apparently, Lucas Books was mighty impressed as well: they've signed Stover to write the novelization of \\"Episode III,\\" putting him in the same class as R. A. Salvatore and Terry Brooks (who wrote the first two novelizations). It's an honor he certainly deserves.	2004-01-17
US	52921642	R333EN14RVRQUK	0743435869	166034461	Killer	Books	2	7	10	N	Y	Great idea, but only adequately entertaining	_Predator_ meets _Gladiator_ would be a good way to describe this science-fiction actioner set in Rome during the reign of the decadent Domitian (81-97 C.E.). A relentless, feral, and cunning alien beast lands on Earth and finds its way to Rome where it wreaks havoc and prepares to release its brood. Beastcatcher Lycon, Armenian animal dealer Vonones, and an alien hunter disguised as an Egyptian pursue the \\"sauropithecus\\" through the maze of ancient Rome.<br />The emphasis on Iron Age weaponry and armor indicates Karl Edward Wagner's presence (the guy knew his armor and weapons!), while the quick and sometimes choppy action passages display David Drake's style. _Killer_ moves rapidly and sometimes cleverly, but the writing style turns confusing in the more furious passages. The finale also abandons the development of Lycon's character, who should have been portrayed as more tragic and driven. The premise is the most outstanding element of this decently entertaining thriller.	2004-01-17
US	52921642	R2M6L0O3X61J9O	0312874480	213289808	Mother of Kings	Books	3	12	13	N	N	An admirable, if not easily readable, novel	A rather incredible achievement for one of the late Poul Anderson's novel-but not actually a good read. Anderson subsumes his personal style to create the feeling of an Icelandic Saga. He uses historical figures and locations and combines them with minutely researched details about everyday Viking life to the point that you can easily forget you are reading the work of a modern author. <br />However, this epic, distanced style and the overload of characters and kinship ties makes for a ponderous, slow-moving reading experience. Copying the flow of the sagas, the plot often skips quickly over large battle scenes or dismisses them with a few phrases. The fantasy element is slight; Gunnhild sometimes work magical spells to aid her sons maintain power in Scandanavia. It shows a realistic outlook on magic that mirrors the way contemporaries viewed their world. Anderson also handles the primitive conflict between paganism and emerging Christianity extremely well, and is the most involving dramatic element in this extremely admirable but not very likable farewell novel. Casual readers will probably not enjoy it. Readers who love Anderson or have a fascination with Scandanvian culture will adore ever moment of it.	2004-01-17
US	52921642	R2617U2727371W	0345404475	978657248	Do Androids Dream of Electric Sheep?: The inspiration for the films Blade Runner and Blade Runner 2049	Books	5	5	7	N	N	Seen the movie? You'd better read the book too!	This 1967 novel inspired the classic movie _Blade Runner_, and it remains Dick's most popular book because of that association. But because the movie altered so much of the original, the book has a vibrant life away from it...and it's an incredible achievement. <br />Bounty hunter Rick Deckard (married in the book version) goes on the search for the Nexus-6 androids loose on a nearly abandoned Earth where wildlife has come close to extinction. Dick explains the background much more thoroughly than the movie, and places special emphasis on the absence of genuine animals on Earth; Deckard's desire to possess a real animal instead of a robot copy becomes the focal point of his struggle to define his own humanity. John Isidore, a mentally deficient \\"chickenhead\\" who falls in with the androids (never called 'replicants' as in the film), is the other symbolic half of this confrontation with what it means to be human; the movie would change him into William Sanderson's diseased inventor. Throughout, Dick uses his piquant humor and dead-on satire to enthrall the reader. <br />A classic SF novel, no arguing about it, and it lead to a classic, if extremely different, SF film. A fascinating read. Even if you claim to dislike science fiction, you need to pick this one up. It may change your opinion of the whole genre. (And make you want to read more Philip K. Dick --there's a lot more great stuff out there!)	2004-01-17
US	52921642	R1SOOOLXMHG9RJ	0679767819	664674670	The Demolished Man	Books	5	19	23	N	N	One of the science fiction greats	(First, just to make something clear: this book has no connection to the Snipes/Stallone stinker movie _Demolition Man_.)<br />Bester's first novel (after years of short stories, comics, and radio) also won the first Hugo Award, and deserved it. This is cyberpunk mayhem thirty years before anyone invented the term, a lightning ride through language, deception, and murder. The book I find it most closely resembles is Paul Cain's crime thriller _Fast One_, duplicating its speed and moral relativism. <br />In Bester's imagined future, Espers (telepaths) make murder impossible to commit, so mad industrialist Ben Reich just has to find a way to get away with it. The plot follows policeman Lincoln Powell, a powerful esper, in his quest to nail Reich, and Reich's delirious evasions. At stake may be the whole of society. <br />I have only one negative thing to say for this book: it still isn't as good as Bester's other great novel, _The Stars My Destination_. Buy both of them today and plunge into the best of science fiction.	2004-01-17
US	52921642	R1QD08COVU0HMU	0140071075	887689385	We Have Always Lived in the Castle	Books	5	4	5	N	N	A chilly, gothic classic from the author of "Hill House"	The other major novel from Shirley Jackson. It doesn't have the devastating impact of _The Haunting of Hill House_, but that is like saying getting hit by a speeding van is less devastating than being run over by a eighteen-wheeler. <br />This is an aching, tragic novel of psychotic decline and clinging human dependence. Narrator Merricat is an amazing character, both repulsive and sympathetic as she tries to protect her sister and their life together from the villagers and the encroachments of cousin Charles. As in _Hill House_, the protagonist is obsessed with location and a need to belong, and it drives her ultimately to insane actions. Like Eleanor Lance, the main character in _The Haunting of Hill House_, Merricat continually removes herself from the rest of humanity.<br />Although the novel contains nothing overtly supernatural, it is filled with \\"living ghost\\" and haunts the reader the same way real ghosts would. Shirley Jackson was a stunning talent, and she dares you to forget he dark, stirring, psychological worlds she builds. Read _We Have Always Lives in the Castle_ for a trip into character you will never forget. (And if you haven't done so yet, read _The Haunting of Hill House_.)	2004-01-17
US	52921642	R2HQSTCE87TTET	0812535316	698698723	Conan The Hunter	Books	1	9	14	N	Y	Extremely poor, overwritten Conan novel.	First, a prologue. (Almost all Conan pastiches have prologues, so why not start a review with one?) There is a mo-ment in Conan the Hunter where a palace gardener beats our hero unconscious.<br />Incredibly, the book is not as completely horrible as that absolutely ridiculous statement would make it sound. But it just has to be one of the most unbelievable moments in any Conan story. Go ahead, read that statement again. By Crom, I dare you not to laugh.<br />Now that I've set the tone, it is time to dive into the meat of Conan the Hunter, or at least the gristle.<br />This is the first Conan novel by Sean A. Moore, and the first of his that I've read. Like John C. Hocking, Moore was a latecomer to the pastiche series, and went on to pen a few more before the line went on hiatus. Judging from this outing, his strengths lay in crafting a clever, dense plot with immense, epic scope, and populating it with an imaginative flood of action and monsters. This novel bursts at the seams with supernatural menaces and crimson battles: A Leech beast in the sewers. Hordes of gargoyles. Repugnant, horror-laden traps everywhere. An invincible demon-sorceress trying to revive her race. A cramped duel to the death in the corridors of a palace. A henchman with a magnetic lodestone for a shield. Nifty stuff all around, candy for a heroic fantasy reader.<br />Yet for all this material, Conan the Hunter can be miserably slow going. Moore demonstrates two tremendous flaws as a writer that impede the novel and make it only sporadically entertaining and otherwise a chore to read.<br />First, Mr. Moore overwrites to an incredible degree. He fills every scene with twice as much description as it merits. I believe the author feels this is a way to imitate Howard's own writing style, which often had a thick and swirling feel. But Howard also practiced economy, an ability to make a perfectly beautiful description of setting or an artifact or an individual with a single thrust of a rapier blade.Moore goes overboard, digging in with scenes of characters preparing for journeys, characters handling swords, characters drinking, and worst of all, characters wondering about other characters. This particular flaw kills the pacing in a number of places, mostly because the information is al-ready clear to the reader. Kailash and Madesus are most prone to these long internal maunderings, and they slow the novel to a near halt whenever they start. The author should drop the speculation and move on to the action. The continual ponderings from secondary characters amounts to filler. Howard would hit the reader with only what he or she needed to know before shifting the action to the next exciting sequence. Had Howard written this story, it would have come out to novella length.<br />Second, the structure of Conan the Hunter is choppy and moves with a start-and-stop structure that makes it difficult to keep up continual interest in the plot. The elimination of major villain and ally at around the hundred page mark is a serious mistake; it seems as if the story should be over at this point, but Moore must now suddenly shift into another type of plot structure entirely. This first transition is the book's weakest section, as Madesus unloads a mound of new exposition to shuttle the story into `phase two.' There is an uncomfortable sense that the author is suddenly \\"making it up as he goes along\\" during this shift. Madesus, previously one of the most intriguing characters in the book, now stumbles into the generic `wise old mentor' mode after this.<br />The novel takes yet another shift a hundred pages later, moving the action away from what had been an interesting city-bound adventure into yet another chase across the wastelands toward a ruined temple. (And how many ruined desert temples are there in the Hyborian Age? They're like strip malls in Wisconsin!) Along the way is a nearly pointless tavern scene in Innasfaln, and the action sequence that follows is a case of overkill-we've had one too many fisticuffs at this point.<br />Not aiding this sputtering approach to structure is the tendency to suddenly substitute allies and villains for new characters at inopportune moments. Salvorus, the novel's best-drawn character, starts as the Conan ally, but the dull hillman Kailash abruptly replaces him. Valtresca and Azora appear to be the principal heavies, but the revived Skauraul's belated entrance (thirty pages before the end!) one-ups them, and Skauraul is too sketchy and generic a villain-really nothing more than a Xaltotun clone from The Hour of the Dragon-to work.<br />I also shuddered at the too-frequent interference of gods in the story. This feels distinctly anti-Howardian. Seers visit-ing Conan in dreams is one thing, as in \\"The Phoenix on the Sword,\\" but having Mitra actually manifest himself to give a helping hand is something else entirely.<br />But Conan the Hunter does have some delicious moments where you can almost forget the overall problems. Most of the sequence in the Temple of Targol is excellent, and the blood trap is gruesome. This is some of the best writ-ing in the story. The sewer monster (source of the excellent cover) is cool, if unconnected to anything else; it at least keeps interest going in the early pages. The battle inside the palace that ends the novel's first phase also thrills, even if it goes on too long.<br />The finale is also well handled; a lot happens in a short time, with gargoyles and spiders and lances jabbing from the sand. The action plays out breathlessly. Yet Moore spoils it all with a cheat climax, a cheap deus ex machina so poorly hinted at previously that it almost wrecks the entire ending.<br />I will certainly read more of Sean A. Moore's Conan work (Conan and the Shaman's Curse, Conan and the Grim Gray God), since his imagination shows promise. Perhaps in these later works he cut some of the fat off his prose and found a better structure to tell his story.	2004-01-17
US	52921642	R24B8COD5VJU1W	0312872429	326260335	Operation Chaos: A Novel	Books	5	13	13	N	N	Science fantasy at its peak. Clever and exciting.	If you've never read anything in the unusual genre of science fantasy that blends science fiction and magic, this is the place to start. It`s one of the classics of the unique genre.<br />This book consists of four connected novellas published between 1956 and 1969 in The Magazine of Fantasy & Science Fiction: \\"Operation Afreet,\\" \\"Operation Salamander,\\" \\"Operation Incubus,\\" and the three-part \\"Operation Changeling.\\" Anderson added linking material for book publication in the 70s. <br />Heroes Steve (a werewolf) and Virginia (his witch wife) fight against a demon being used as a superweapon in World War II, stop an elemental college prank gone amok, confront a succubus/incubus on their romantic getaway, and enter the hell dimension to save their daughter. The tone changes between the different segments: the college story is riotously funny and played almost strictly for laughs, while the lengthy final novella emphasizes heavy science, a deadly-serious quest, and thought-provoking satire on religious zeal gone wrong. But ultimately, I'm not complaining: this is top-notch science-fantasy and an example of what an incredible talen the late Poul Anderson was. His logical approach to fantasy makes magic and the supernatural into scientific forces that operate in his fictional universe the same way that modern technology operates in ours. The world of _Operation Chaos_ is recognizable as 20th-century America, except that magic is this world's science, and is treated in the same way that scientific theories and inventions are in our own. Anderson handles this difficult conceit to near perfection, writing fantasy with the techniques of science fiction. <br />Come on, take the ride into chaos!	2004-01-17
US	52921642	R3B4KUGDUNL0TR	0142500534	451254071	Birth of the Firebringer (Firebringer Trilogy)	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Good start to a unique triolgy	A wonderful short fantasy novel featuring no human characters-a difficult trick for an author. This first novel in a trilogy about unicorns straddles animal fables like _Watership Down_ and _Redwall_ with heroic high fantasy. The fantasy plotline is molded on the classic `destined hero' structure, wherein a juvenile of royal birth becomes aware that he/she will lead the people in a preordained battle against great foes. Pierce melds this story with the `search for better grazing land' from animal fables, and presto! Nifty fantasy trip with familiar fantastic beasts used in new ways. <br />Aside from unicorns, we also meet wyverns, gryphons, and fauns. Most of the novel's effectiveness comes from Pierce's skill describing this ancient pastoral land, although she does pull out a surprising plot twist at the end that shed new light on the entire story. The books ends with great promise for the future installments, and they're worth it-especially the finale, _Son of the Summer Stars_.	2004-01-17
US	52921642	REWMTFN9J83BT	0061020648	390521147	Guards! Guards!	Books	4	0	1	N	N	One of my favorites of the series so far	This was my sixth visit to Discworld, and the most enjoyable stay so far. This is the first of the City Watch sub-series, which fans often nominate as their favorite. These stories focus on the criminally understaffed city guards of Ahnk-Morpork (four employees total), lead by the depressed, sotted, but nearly heroic Captain Vimes. Pratchett gets a lot of heroic fantasy parody material out of this concept, but it also gives him a chance for good character work. In this novel, he also plays around with the stereotypical fantasy dragon and has quite a blast with it (excuse the pun). The story construction is the best Ive read from Discworld. Unfortunately, Ive noticed that my attention always begins slipping in the last third of any Discworld novel; Pratchetts ceaseless comic parading eventually becomes wearisome after two hundred pages of it. Nonetheless, the series continues to strengthen with each episode I read, and I'm eager to read more of the City-Watch series.	2004-01-17
US	52921642	R1C8HNR6SITQT2	0441478123	101055477	The Left Hand of Darkness	Books	5	4	6	N	N	A classic, that's all there is to it.	A double award-winner (Nebula and Hugo, and Mrs. LeGuin will receive the Grandmaster Award this year), this 1960s novel stands as one of the most respected SF tales ever because the depth of its alien society; so human in so many ways (the residents of the planet Gethen are actually termed `humans'), yet so far away in their sexuality. The people of Gethen are androgynous most of the year, with a monthly period where they can change into either males or females for mating. LeGuin crafts a fascinating view of how this one change in physiology creates a unique society. The depth of the culture rivals that of that in _Dune_. <br />The plot follows an envoy from an alliance of human planets trying to convince Gethen to join the union, who then runs afoul of Gethen's cultural differences and twisty politics. The story moves slowly, allowing a close examination of the alien culture, and reaches its height with the growing friendship between envoy Genly Ai and exiled politician Estraven. In an interesting departure from the customary use of point-of-view, LeGuin switches between two different first person narrators. It's a daring device, but LeGuin makes it work after its first confusing appearance.<br />If you have any intereset in science fiction, YOU MUST READ THIS BOOK. It's one of the basic texts of the genre.	2004-01-17
US	52921642	R3CVFNODGINL6Q	0553297090	154082397	Timescape	Books	5	27	31	N	N	One of the best Hard Science Fiction novels ever written	A Nebula winner, and one of a handful of hard SF books considered a classic. I`ll admit that hard SF doesn't gel well with my personal reading tastes with its emphasis on scientific explanation and frequently stock characters; however, I have enjoyed some immensely, such as _The Forge of God_, and this novel only proves that Hard SF CAN be both technically fascinating and be superby piece of literature and characterization as well. <br />Initially, Timescape caught my attention with its central premise of a dying future (well, 1998, the future when the book was written) finding a way through tachyon messages of contacting the past (1962). But the book does tend to tread water for a long time, and some of the character conflicts get a bit tiresome. But in the finale, which contains a stunning surprise, the strange science at last coalesces into a emotionally stirring vision of time as a landscape. It was at this moment that I saw the book itself become a whole-and an admirable whole. As the thoughtful afterward points out, the book tackles many different types of stories, not all of which will appeal to every reader. Give it shot, even if Hard SF insn't your thing.	2004-01-17
US	52921642	R3WVNMJQZZSA2	0743413172	731917015	Damnation Alley	Books	4	10	10	N	N	Not Zelazny's best, but damn good fun anyway!	\\"The savage classic that inspired the apocalyptic hit science fiction film!\\" says the ad blurb.<br />Well, the ad blurb at least got the first part right, eh?<br />However, if it wasn't for the dank 1977 movie and its groovy armored RV, this early Zelazny novel might be languishing out of print. Fourteen years before _The Road Warrior_, another ballsy loner in leather zooms the wastelands of a post-apocalyptic world, one that has gone insane with lurid pulp nasties like giant gila monsters, big snakes, super bats, storms that dump debris from the sky, and roving motorcycle gangs (gotta have those). Our hero, Hell Tanner, carries a shipment of life-saving serum to beleaguered Boston, and the hard-bitten man transforms through his struggles to genuinely care about the survival of the cursed world. The slow transformation never becomes cliché or silly, especially since Zelazny constantly throws a smorgasbord of action at Tanner's armored fortress-car. <br />A few avant-garde sequences throw the book off kilter, but otherwise the hard-boiled fury of this adventure carries you quickly to the finale.	2004-01-17
US	52921642	R382V072SDTLZB	0142500577	433949064	Dark Moon (Firebringer Trilogy)	Books	3	1	2	N	N	Good book, but weakest of trilogy	This second book in the Firebringer Trilogy logically expands the story, but it does not quite have the same kick as the first; perhaps the added length takes away from the impact. The humans (\\"two-foots\\") are handled in a superlative way so that they don't upset the animal-POV slant of the series. In general, this novel makes for a good example of how to write the middle chapter of a trilogy.<br />In this second installment, Jan, appointed prince of the unicorns in the previous book (_Birth of the Firebringer_), is captured by humans who believe he may be an incarnation of their god and taken to their city across the sea. Meanwhile, Jan's father Korr starts to turn the unicorn herd into a tyranny and directs his hatred at Jan's mate, Tek, now heavy with foal.  <br />Pierce moves the story along the plot-lines introduced in the first volume, adds new horizons, answers some questions, brings up others. Admirable all around, especially Pierce's message of tolerance between traditional enemies, but the novelty has rubbed off a little. Thankfully, the last volume, _Son of the Summer Stars_ brings the trilogy to a smashing finish when the unicorns again confront the wyverns.	2004-01-17
US	52921642	R2Y1ZK88FM9BIU	0345350596	962163505	The Star Beast	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Heinlein does it again -- a "juvenile" for the adults too	Another juvenile adventure story from the first Grand Master of Science Fiction. As usual, it has a strong appeal for adult readers as well. Heinlein never wrote down to his younger readers or lightened his realistic approach to soceity and politics in his future settings. Sometimes this works against him, and in Star Beast he gets too deep lengthy discussions between bureaucrats sitting in offices talking about intergalactic politics and the workings of the justice system. <br />The central premise, however, thrills: a teen boy's `pet,' a saurian alien named Lummox, becomes a focal point in negotiations with a powerful alien race, while misguided humans search for a legal loophole to allow them to kill the alien beast. The sequence involving John Thomas's escape with Lummox to avoid an order to destroy the alien is the novel's best. <br />If you are interested in reading more Heinlein juveniles, _Starman Jones_ and _Have Space Suit-Will Travel_ are even better, with plenty of more action and adventure.	2004-01-17
US	52921642	R14T814KGGREFP	0152162577	352797677	Deep Wizardry: The Second Book in the Young Wizards Series	Books	5	4	8	N	N	Even better than the first! Finest YA fantasy around!	The first book in the \\"Young Wizards\\" series, _So You Want to Be a Wizard_, is one of the best of the YA books I've read. This book, the first sequel, doesn't have the the outrageous, clever humor of the first book, but it replaces it with amazing personal drama and a sense of tragedy-no other YA book I've read gets closer to the level of great adult fantasy literature (with the possible exception of Garth Nix's _Sabriel_). <br />Wizards Nita and Kit must save New York from an ocean disaster by participating with whale sorcerers in a ceremony to calm the Lone Power...a ceremony that may require the sacrifice of Nita's life. Duane approaches the level of great science fantasy writers Fritz Leiber and L. Sprague de Camp in this work of modern fantasy, and manages to embarass Harry Potter in the extreme. Thoroughly exceptional, and adults take notice-you'll love this book as much as the younger readers.	2004-01-17
US	52921642	R2PS3AWFS0A59K	031286504X	486151984	I Am Legend	Books	5	1	2	N	N	This is one of the Horror greats. READ IT NOW!	First off: I read this in one sitting. I couldn't stop. I started to fear that vampires were surrounding MY apartment.<br />Filmed twice and cited by many horror authors as a quintessential classic, _I Am Legend_ deserves every bit of this acclaim. This apocalyptic science-fiction take on the vampire engrosses from the first page until the `anti-horror' conclusion that overturns the customary expectations of the horror novel. (It is similar to Jack Williamson's _Darker Than You Think_, which I also recommend.)<br />Nudging in over 50,000 words in length, this novel is a perfect example of economy of storytelling. In another author's hands, this might have bloated into a five hundred page epic about the world under a vampire reign, but it would have utterly lacked the focus and passion that Matheson gives it. Matheson wrings heartbreak from simple human sequences, such as Neville's pursuit and attempt to rescue a mangy dog. Matheson has the unnerving power to find the emotional core of every scene through protagonist Robert Neville's struggle; you feel his loneliness, his shifts of despair and hope.<br />Can't emphasize it enough: this is a liteary masterpiece.	2004-01-17
US	52921642	R25RDLN7BV23C0	0743435710	616051317	On Basilisk Station (Honor Harrington)	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Great, exciting space opera	Now this was a kick! In my pursuit of broader science fiction and fantasy horizons, I turned to this example of modern space opera and military science fiction. I haven't dabbled much in the military side of SF because I often get tired of long droning analyses of the technical specs of weapon systems and engines. Fortunately, the space opera zip and zing of _Basilisk Station_ overcomes the occasionally \\"starship manual\\" sections; and dammit, if Weber doesn't manage to make even those sections clear and interesting. <br />This first in a series about a female spaceship captain, Honor Harrington, and her service to the Kingdom of Manticore (one of many bickering human space governments), does use standard stereotype characters, and Honor isn't nearly as fascinating as the critics claim, but the book crackles with excitement. The lengthy climax with a land battle and an intense ship-to-ship duel, pours on the tension. Weber's only serious flaw as a writer is his tendency for inappropriate info-dumps of technical information. But I'll certainly read more in this series.	2004-01-17
US	52921642	RD3UE4IZ2X8TO	0803298315	685022494	The War in the Air (Bison Frontiers of Imagination)	Books	5	26	29	N	Y	Stunning, disturbing prophecy	H.G. Wells-what a genius. He foresaw the future better than any supposed \\"psychic.\\" This novel, little known but available again, is the proof.<br />In the early 20th century, the invention of aerial vehicles precipitates the outbreak of a worldwide war that had brewed for hundreds of years. The aircrafts' ability to wreck unlimited destruction lays waste to civilization, reducing it to pre-Industrial revolution levels. That is the basis of this incredible piece of political and scientific prophesy. Wells unleashes his full understanding of human \\"progress\\" and the fraility of political systems, and with every page hits truths about war and technology even more applicable today than during World War I, the combat that Wells envisioned here. He even saw 9/11 and the Iraq War, pegging Western European complaceny so accurately that I felt my jaw drop to the floor on a few occasions. <br />Honestly, this H. G. guy was one in a billion. He was utterly, incalculably brilliant. He was also a helluva writer, expressing ideas with flashes of humor, irony, and passion. Wells uses a countryside Englishman as witness to the fall of civilization, and manages to effortlessly switch between the epic canvas of war and the cameo portrait of a normal man seeing everything he ever understood about the world fray apart before his eyes. <br />In a terrific last stroke, Wells writes the final chapter that sums up the possibility that \\"progess\\" may be an illusion. This novel deserves to be considered amongst Wells finest, and this new edition with Duncan's insightful introduction, may be the firest step in getting it the wide audience it deserves.	2004-01-17
US	52921642	R2Y6YHA5ZVT4O1	0880389206	5618724	Exile: Forgotten Realms (The Dark Elf Trilogy, Book 2)	Books	3	2	5	N	N	Fun in the Underdark with Drizzt	If you liked the Homeland, then get ready for more fun with Drizzt and the Underdark! Our intreprid hero and his feline sidekick travel the gloomy tunnels of the underground world in exile from the cruel society of the Dark Elves. His family desires to find him so they may regain the favor of Lolth the Spider Queen, and raise up a zombie of Drizzts father to bring him back. Drizzt meanwhile finds companionship with a dwarf and rock burrowing creature who has been transformed by a curse into a hook horror. The three companions stumble on a mind flayer cavern, a pack of dire cobies, an evil wizard...well, you get the idea. The finale sets us up for even greater vistas of adventure. This is an altogether enjoyable light fantasy novel, but it does occasionally drag under overlong battle sequences. Drizzt still keeps your interest, and his conflict with his undead father plays out perfectly.	2004-01-17
US	52921642	RUPB8ART82WEH	0812550757	241285325	Speaker for the Dead (The Ender Quintet)	Books	5	0	1	N	N	Wonderful, but very different sequel to ENDER'S GAME	This sequel to &quot;Ender's Game&quot; is an entirely different kind of novel, although it follows directly from the conclusion of the first book. Ender Wiggin is now thirty-five, while three thousand years have passed in the universe during his light-speed sojourns. (Card very poignantly explorers the emotional consequences of space travel that keeps the journeyer young while everyone he knows ages decades. See Haledman's &quot;The Forever War&quot; for a similar exploration of this idea.) The action occurs on the Portuguese colony planet Lusitania, where the humans struggle to understand the native race, the 'piggies,' without interfering with them. Ender arrives to investigate the deaths of two xenologists at the piggies' hands. <br />The real concern of the book is a human confrontation with a completely alien society and ecosystem, which leads to a reevaluation of the assumptions of how we treat that which is different from us. In this way, the book has much in common with Le Guin's &quot;The Left Hand of Darkness,&quot; but has less of the book's subtlety. Nonetheless, Card makes the story effective through his focus on the family conflicts tied up in the Lusitania crisis, and his message against biological imperialism and genocide in the name of safety is a potent one today. A deserving, award-winning novel. If you read &quot;Ender's Game,&quot; prepare to be surprised all over again.	2004-01-17
US	52921642	R1M3T7J2PXSM8O	0152162445	125875331	High Wizardry (Young Wizard's Series)	Books	3	5	8	N	N	Not as good as the others, but still a good read	The next book in the Young Wizards series dips somewhat below the quality of the two previous novels. Duane treads far into the \\"rational fantasy\\" territory of Madeline L'Engle here; in fact, the book in places seems to be a direct homage to _A Wrinkle in Time_ with its rapid planet-hopping and planets based on philosophy. I'm tempted to call this science fiction or at least science fantasy. <br />In a major shift, the hero of the story is Nita's little sister, Dairine, who has a knack for computer wizardry. The humor that was subtle in the previos novel, _Deep Wizardry_, returns in full force here for the first half-Dairine makes for a very humorous heroine. But toward the end the book bogs down in its own half-explained philosophy. This confusing finale keeps the book from obtaining the thrilling heights of the first two.	2004-01-17
US	52921642	R2TC3JM1EMKFUH	0142500747	330070931	The Son of Summer Stars (Firebringer Trilogy)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	The best of the three Firebringer novels!	The trilogy ends on the best book, wherein the unicorns finally take the war to the wyverns in an all-out battle to reclaim their ancestral lands, and Jan at last confronts his father and the secret of his birth, and Tek's parentage finally come to light. The excitement stays at a high level, even though Pierce makes the odd move of having Jan observe most of the action through a seeing pool shown to him by a dragon. Tek rises now to become the co-hero of the series, and she actually does more in the story than Jan does. Two problems do bother the book and keep it from being an absolute masterpiece. First, the two \\"surprise\\" revelations aren't surprising at all. Pierce draws out the suspense without realizing that most readers have figured it out many chapters ago with all her heavy-handed foreshadowing. Second, Pierce relies too much on descriptive phrases rather than proper names to identify characters: 'pied mare' instead of Tek, 'amber filly' instead of Lell. This reached occasionally aggravating levels. Meredith, it is okay to use the name more than once in the same paragraph!<br />Nonetheless, this is a wonderful, great fantasy for all-ages, and a terrific finale to an excellent series.	2004-01-17
US	52921642	R3C6XRV96I40J2	0345347951	589013680	Childhood's End	Books	5	286	311	N	N	Not to be missed SF classic	It sounds like a story you've heard before: great alien masters descend on Earth and take control of the world, ushering in a golden age that may be cleverly disguised creative slavery. But Clarke's legendary novel (equal to _Rendezvous with Rama_ and _2001: A Space Odyssey_ in fame) isn't about a human rebellion against alien overlords, but the evolution of humanity into its next stage, and the ultimate dwarfing power of the unknowable order of the cosmos. The narrative glides between different characters and different eons, occasionally with a seeming clumsiness that turns out to be purposeful plotting devices. The pay-off is sublime science-fiction poetry that shows the genre's power to transcend human drama and fly into the infinite. The sheer scope of its conclusions leaves the reader wiser and sadder, the sign of a superb novel.	2004-01-17
US	52921642	R3AEKIAVB78ZX8	0880389052	243097701	Homeland (Forgotten Realms)	Books	4	7	12	N	N	Fun light fantasy, and plenty of action and great settings	Last year, Salvatore's \\"Icewind Dale Trilogy\\" caught me by surprise, turning out to be a thoroughly enjoyable fantasy romp. As basic entertainment, it delivered. Then I turned to his second trilogy, this one a prequel about the early life of the rebellious drow (dark elf), Drizzt Do'Urden. Drizzt has a huge following among contemporary fantasy readers. He's certainly no Elric, Conan, or Aragorn, but he's an enjoyable action character with the right amount of tragedy to keep him interesting. <br />The first book of his youthful adventures relates how he rebels against the rigid, cruel world of the drow and their undergound homeland. Salvatore pours on the action set pieces and monsters, although the politics between the drow houses do overburden the story in the final third. The best part of the book is the author's portrait of the sinister subterranean world of the Underdark. It's a unique setting for an entire fantasy novel, and Salvatore invests it with equal parts wonder and dread. Get ready for the next two in the trilogy, _Exile_ and _Sojourn_. They're just as good.	2004-01-17
US	52921642	R5TRPRJXYNQ0K	0345423615	279350331	The Silver Wolf (Legends of the Wolves, Book 1)	Books	2	5	8	N	N	Good story, often clumsy writing	\\"Captain Exposition!!!\\" works overtime in this historical romance/fantasy from Anne Rice's older sister, with characters endlessly rattling on about the back story and history of the characters. Honestly, I've never seen back story so ineptly handled. That Borchardt's editor let it slip past only shows how helpful it is to have a powerful relative in the publishing world.<br />But once the establishing chapters end, the books winds up as a pretty fair piece of historical fantasy. The premise drew my attention to it in the first place: a female werewolf in eighth century Rome caught in the political struggle between the Pope, Charlemagne, and the Lombards. Borchardt writes the werewolf action and expeditions into the spirit world with flair, but often dwells on historical digressions for too long, losing the plot momentum. The story moves in fitful spurts of action and historical scene setting, and would have been a far better work at half the length.	2004-01-17
US	52921642	R1HT7BHK8INI5I	0553249355	240738397	West of Eden (Eden, No. 1)	Books	5	1	3	N	N	A new look at natural history that will carry you away	WOW. That's all I've got to say.<br />Well, maybe I've got a bit more to say. This is an example of speculative fiction that is truly speculative: what if the dinosaurs had not gone extinct, but instead developed into a sentient culture? Harrison answers that question in this thrilling epic that pits the dinosaurs (Yilanè in their own language) and their bio-technology against the slowly emerging, primitive humans. Harrison has expertly created an alien psychology and biology for his reptilian race, one that is a pleasure to read and explore as the book unfolds. <br />But through the character of the human Kerrick, who was brought up amongst the Yilanè and escapes from them to later lead the human tribes into the mutually genocidal combat, Harrison also has created a wonderful story in which his science marvels can achieve their dramatic potential. This is what great hard science fiction strives for, but rarely achieves: fascinating, well-developed new science that drives a superior, emotional narrative, instead of existing for its own sake.	2004-01-17
US	52921642	R2YUUV4JZ38WHS	0812590619	71657274	Conan and the Emerald Lotus	Books	4	16	17	N	Y	Excellent Conan by any standards	For fans of Conan and Robert E. Howard who have been deeply disappointed with the recent \\"Conan\\" novels, or who don't even want to pick one up (and in most cases, I can't blame you), THIS is the one read. This is excellent Conan, as good as many of Robert Jordan's early work and easily the best Conan from Tor I've read in a long time. To put it simply, \\"Conan and the Emerald Lotus\\" is thrilling. After a slightly slow beginning, the narrative rockets into a real Howardian roller-coaster ride. It's clear the author had a fun time writing it, and the reader consequently feels his enthusiasm.<br />Mr. Hocking has solved one of the principle problems of the recent Conan books: he actually builds to a climax. Instead of hurling countless subplots and villains at the reader and then dropping them all before a boring conclusion, Hocking gives us one hell of an apocalyptic curtain closer. It more than satisfies the reader's expectations. In general, the gradual build of action is perfectly pitched. After page 85 or so, I guarantee you'll be reading compulsively. There are plenty of other treats, such as a true human heartbeat to the story when dealing with sorceress Zelandra's addiction to the lotus. Hocking shows a believable decline and desperation in the character (and, to a lesser extent, in villain Ethram-fal). It's rare to see a modern Conan author find an emotional core to the story, the same way the REH did in his best work, and I applaud Mr. Hocking for this bit of attractive gloss to his adventure story.<br />In many ways, \\"Conan and the Emerald Lotus\\" is less true Howard than it is an homage to all of the Weird Tales authors, especially Clark Ashton Smith, August Derleth, H. P. Lovecraft, and most clearly Robert Bloch. Mr. Hocking remembers that Conan originally appeared in a magazine of the weird, unusual, and often horrific, and appropriately ladens his story with creepy dark fantasy and terror. The Emerald Lotus, inspired from the sensational Clark Ashton Smtihstory \\"The Seed from the Sepulcher\\", is a particularly gruesome nasty. The author has also given us a good vision of the wilderness of Stygia, where ancient temples lie in wait and long dead sorcerers can still stalk benighted halls in ghoul-form before the faceless sphinx of Nyarlathotep.<br />Conan himself is in fine form. He's in his thirties, a hardened veteran, and he uses his skills in tactics, stealth, and tracking at every point. He's still a softer character than REH's, but at least he's smart and wry and still tough as hell. His relationship with Neesa is a bit routine (you gotta love the way the girl hurls a dagger though!), but his bond with mute Heng Shih is one of the better male-buddy relationship I've read in a non-Howard work.<br />Altogether, this is fine adventure, and Howard fans should all read it, even if they claim to hate pastiches. I want to read more from Mr. Hocking, so I hope to see more people reading his novel.	2004-01-05
US	52921642	R3JHBXYD81T3RZ	0803296193	132520680	The Chase of the Golden Meteor (Bison Frontiers of Imagination)	Books	3	5	6	N	N	A quaint comedy and a real hoot to read	Okay, it's not _Twenty Thousand Leagues Under the Sea_ or _From the Earth to the Moon_, but this late novel by one of the Godfathers of Science Fiction is an entertaining romp through Edwardian manners, comic nutcase characters, and some slippery and suspect science.  Even the scientifically declined will quickly see the flaws in Verne's theories (a solid gold meteor?), and readers more inclined toward modern science fiction and action stories will quickly grow tired of the two melodramatic love stories and the endless comic buffoonery between competing amateur astronomers who want to lay claim to the golden meteor.  But this novel really is -- plain simple -- a fun read.  For 280+ pages, Jules Verne sweeps you off to a world of wonder and innocent scientific adventure, where even a threatened world wide economic collapse can be solved with some quick tinkering, and an eccentric scientist can forget about the most important accomplisment of his career on his way to the train station.  And it's also funny...people often forget that Verne had a wickedly sly sense of humor.  The gentlely \\"mad\\" scientist Xirdal, who cooks up a ridiculous scheme to retrieve the meteor (and, because this is a Jules Verne novel, it actually work), is a unique and charming character.<br />If all this sounds like your idea of a great time, I can't recommend _The Chase of the Golden Meteor_ highly enough.  It's a romp, pure and simple.  If you've enjoyed Verne's other works, you should sample this bit of little known fluff.	2002-08-21
US	52921642	R2CU296TOUCS1H	0843945834	232357794	The Legend of Thunder Moon	Books	4	7	7	N	N	An excellent Native American Western from a great talent	Max Band, penname of Frederick &quot;Heinie&quot; Faust, wrote over 500 books in his career, and it is amazing how much of this landslide of material is still highly enjoyable.  THE LEGEND OF THUNDER MOON is the first in Brand's series of stories about a white boy adopted by Native Americans who becomes part of their culture and then faces the pressure of being caught between the settlers and his adopted family.  At the time this was published, in 1927, this was daring and unusual material.  Brand's sympathetic but not pandering treatement of the Cheyenne still holds up well today.<br />This first book focuses on Thunder Moon's growth and his life with the tribe, and his fight against his fear of undergoing the painful Sun-Ceremony while he tries to prove his worth at a warrior.  He comes into contact with whites for the first time, but the book is mainly about his life with the Cheyenne.  Brand shows remarkable knowledge of plains Indian life and delves deeply into it.  This is one of the books most enjoyable aspects, and again, was unusual at the time.  But, as usual for a Brand book, there is plenty of action and excitment.<br />This volume also contains an insightful introduction by Edgar L. Chapman that looks at Brand's attachment to the Native American way of life and gives an overview of the sometimes complicated publishing history of the Thunder Moon saga.<br />If you wish to follow more of Thunder Moon's adventures, the story continues in RED WIND AND THUNDER MOON.	2001-09-09
US	52921642	RKJ43GG0UAUDV	0743423712	927272630	Rear Window	Books	5	12	12	N	Y	Woolrich, the greatest suspense author of all time	After years of having only one small volume of Cornell Woolrich's short suspense stories in print, this new volume is a major cause for celebration. It collects 13 of his works ranging from his earliest pulp stories (\\"Dead on Her Feet\\") to his last, sparse years (\\"For the Rest of Her Life\\"). The contents will be familiar to Woolrich fans, who have been able to dig up many of these stories in old anthologies, but it is wonderful to have them in a clean new collection -- with a thrilling cover. And for those of you new to Woolrich, you are in for a treat. Settle back in your armchair and dim the lights...you're in for a terrifying ride. Woolrich can cram more tension, anguish, and despair into his noir nightmare tales than any other author living or dead. He practically invented the noir genre, and once you get a taste of his riveting work, you'll never get enough of it again. <br />This collection contains: \\"Rear Window\\", \\"I Won't Take a Minute\\", \\"Speak to Me of Death\\", \\"The Dancing Detective\\" (a.k.a. \\"Dime a Dance\\"), \\"The Light in the Window\\", \\"The Corpse Next Door\\", \\"You'll Never See Me Again\\", \\"The Screaming Laugh\\", \\"Dead on Her Feet\\", \\"Waltz\\", \\"The Book That Squealed\\", \\"Death Escapes the Eye\\", and \\"For the Rest of Her Life.\\" <br />My personal favorite is the last, the story that originlly hooked me on Woolrich. It's a terrifying tale of a woman's attempt to escape an abusive relationship. There are many other classics here, such as \\"Death Escapes the Eye\\", a subtle tale about the death of love -- and maybe another death as well. \\"Dead on Her Feet\\" is a grim short about police brutality, and \\"I Won't Take a Minute\\" and \\"You'll Never See Me Again\\" deal in one of Woolrich's favorite subjects: the sudden and inexplicable disappearance of a loved one and the panicked and hopeless search for them. \\"Speak to Me of Death\\" is a wonderfully depressing meditation on the fear of death and the horrific power of fate. Woolrich later lengthened it into the novel _Night Has a Thousand Eyes_. \\"The Screaming Laugh\\", \\"Waltz\\", and \\"The Book That Squealed\\" are lesser works, but still classics of their genre.<br />And, of course, the title story isn't a classic for nothing: it's a chilling account of suspicion and entrapment in every way the equal of the Hitchcock film that followed it. The volume also contains a short but insightful introduction that explains how Woolrich's dismal life is mirrored in his fiction. Understanding Woolrich's personal nightmares is helpful in appreciating his fictional ones. <br />If you like mystery and suspense, or just plain great writing, BUY THIS BOOK. And tell all your friends to as well. We need more Woolrich in print. And be sure to purchase NIGHT AND FEAR, a new Woolrich collection.<br />BOTTOM LINE: an eclectic brew murder and suspense -- and some of the finest work you will read anywhere. It is NOT hit and miss. Every piece is a gem. This is NOT literary junk food. Woolrich is one of the masters of American literature, deserving of great respect. Recommended to everyone who reads.	2001-08-24
US	52921642	R1S6UW626THOSH	0345331389	286299382	A Princess of Mars	Books	3	28	31	N	N	A good start, but not the best of the series	This is Edgar Rice Burroughs's first novel, and he obviously had some growing pains to go through first. But he got up to speed extremely quickly. &quot;A Princess of Mars&quot; is imaginative, far exceeding anything else written in science-fiction before it. H. G. Welles wrote allegorical and social-commentary science-fiction, and Verne concentrated on scientific prediction. But Burroughs essentially took an old-fashioned Knight-errant story and tossed it onto Mars. The result: a fastasia of plutonium guns, sowrd fighting, flying platforms, 15 ft green aliens, and fercious four-armed white apes. Outrageous, ridiculous, and oh so much fun!<br />But the series would get better in the later books. To fully enjoy &quot;Princess&quot;, you must also read &quot;Gods of Mars&quot;, and &quot;Warlord of Mars&quot;, which complete an informal trilogy within the series. Burroughs has some difficulty structuring this first novel, and the events do not fit together as well as his later works. Escpeially in the first fifty pages, Burroughs appears to be just winging it. Also, some of the stodgy poeticisms of earlier fantasy and sci-fi haven't quite left his pen. In a few more novels, he would trim his style down even further and revolutionize popular literature. With only his next book, &quot;Tarzan of the Apes&quot; (you've probably heard of it), he would make vast improvements in plotting and characterization.<br />But if you want to read Edgar Rice Burroughs (and few authors are more enjoyable), there's no better place to start than the beginning, and you'll quickly forgive &quot;Princess&quot;'s faults and be able to enjoy it...and the best is yet to come!	2000-09-22
US	52921642	R3BNGHEDE071HA	0803261543	333218303	The Land That Time Forgot (Commemorative Edition)	Books	5	41	41	N	Y	Now in one volume, the greatest &quot;Lost World&quot; tale of all!	I first read \\"The Land That Time Forgot\\" five years ago, when it was still published in three separate short volumes: \\"The Land That Time Forgot\\", \\"The People That Time Forgot\\", and \\"Out of Time's Abyss\\" (all originally published in Blue Book in 1918). I enjoyed the story immensely, but I mistakenly treated it as a trilogy, or a series of novels like Burroughs's own Barsoom series, and read them separately, interspersed with other books. With the publication of this single volume \\"Commemorative Edition\\", I finally realized that Burroughs meant for the work to be published as one novel (which it was until the 1960s), and sat down to read it as such.<br />What a difference this makes. I now believe that \\"The Land That Time Forgot\\" is Burroughs's best work, and the definitive \\"lost world\\" tale. The three sections are semi-independent, but work as a whole in unexpected ways. In Part I, we are introduced to the Island of Caprona and the bizarre prehistoric land of Caspak hidden inside it, but only after a long submarine journey. Before the hero can solve the mystery of the strange evolutionary system of Caspak, we cut to Part II, which immediately launches us into an adventure on the other side of the Island with a new narrator. Many plot strands come to an end at the conclusion of this second section, but there are still some questions left, still some mysteries, and Part III brings it all to a great conclusion, when we finally see behind the curtains and learn the enigma of Caspak.<br />Burroughs's writing is simple, tough, and exciting, and Caspak provides endless excitement from all corners of pre-history and fantasy: dinosaurs, sea monsters, cavemen, giant mammals, and winged humanoids! And there are airplanes and German subs as well. But what really sets this novel apart from other, similar stories, is the evolutionary concept that rules Caspak. I will say no more...the riddle of Caspak is the best of many reasons to read this wonderful novel, presented complete for the first time in nearly half a century.	2000-09-22
US	52921642	R1GXQJ9LGX9NZW	0312869924	908007052	Darker Than You Think	Books	5	8	8	N	N	And better than you could hope...	It is great to have this pulp classic (first published in the pages of &quot;Unknown&quot; in the early forties and expanded in 1947) back in print.  This is the best in &quot;epic horror&quot;; every chapter has a  new suprise, a new shock, a new monster -- but Williamson keeps it all  together in his focus on a tortured and confused protagonist, caught  between his friends and his confusing &quot;lust&quot;.  Although  supposedly a werewolf novel, the author expands the story into a titanic  struggle of humanity and the dark unknown, a struggle that lasts through  all time and infects all of us.  Impossible to put down, and worth it for  the surprising emotional climax that reverses all conventions of horror (at  least as horror was known then).  Get it now!	2000-06-01
US	52921642	R3DXK1RKEGZ7OW	0812572386	507854420	Tarzan of the Apes (Tor Classics)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Still one amazing adventure story	It's incredible that eighty-eight years after it first appeared in &quot;All-Story&quot;, Tarzan of the Apes is still an absolute thrill to read.  Burrough's original Tarzan is a fascinating creation, more  intelligent and brutal than the many sanitized versions that have appeared  in Hollywood since the silent days (and somehow the Lord of the Apes had  his biggest financial success in a Disney(? ) film).  Tarzan is here a  vehicle for the author to explore the binary nature of humanity and the  thin line between civilzation and savagery that exists within everyone.   Oh, and it's filled with action! action! action! and pathos! and action!  and pathos!  It isn't remotely relistic for a second, but its a grand  fantasy that wins over new fans with each generation.  Your life is a  little less exciting if you haven't read it.	2000-02-09
US	52921642	R2QAZ5O2LIGMT2	0140234276	867810202	I Married a Dead Man (Crime, Penguin)	Books	5	15	19	N	N	One of the author's best	This is the last novel of Woolrich's main period, before he hit a creative dry spell that lasted until his miserable lonely death of a stroke in 1968.  It is also one of his least forgiving: depression, despairing, a look into  the hopeless webs of fate that seem to ensnare us.  Life, the protagonist  tells us is a game -- one we and her are destined to lose. The third person  story that falls in-between the first person prologue and epilogue is one  of Woolrich's most imaginative and dark, albeit not always logical  (Woolrich's work is suffused with logic holes that defy you to explain  them, but you probably won't even notice them because the prose and  suspense is no all-consuming).  It's been adapted to film three times, but  none have successfully recreated the true existential dread Woolrich's  prose creates.  (Riki Lake and existential dread . . .  I don't think that  works)  <br />Very little of Woolrich is in print, and you really owe it to  yourself to read one of the great works by the greatest suspense author of  all time.	2000-02-09
US	52921642	R3ENX81O3XZ6A9	0140269770	120842447	The Cornell Woolrich Omnibus: Rear Window and Other Stories / I Married a Dead Man / Waltz into Darkness	Books	5	68	70	N	Y	Well, at least something is in print	For those of you who have never met him, let me introduce you to Cornell Woolrich, the greatest suspense writer of all time.  He's cruel, he'll wring you dry, he'll pummell you physically and emotionally until you just  about break down.  And you'll never be able to get enough.<br />Now let me  introduce you to the ONLY thing that is in print from this remarkable man,  who wrote over twenty novels and a few hundred short stories... The  Omnibus, which contains I MARRIED A DEAD MAN and WALTZ INTO DARKNESS, two  of the last novels of his &quot;main&quot; period and both written under  the psuedonym William Irish, and five short stories collected under the  Title &quot;Rear Window&quot;.  I MARRIED A DEAD MAN is one of Woolrich's  best: existentially terrifying, incredibly depressing, and wholly dependant  on bizarre coincindences that you must just accept as being part of his  cruel and mocking universe.  WALTZ is a strange choice to include, since it  uncharacteriscally takes place in a period setting (1880s Louisiana) and  depends less on crime and suspense than his other works, but it is  nonetheless captivating -- his dark view of life and love still sits at the  helm, but this novel isn't representative of his work the way you would  expect for inclusion in an &quot;Omnibus&quot;.<br />As for the shorts, they  are uniformally a strong group.  &quot;Change of Muder&quot; and  &quot;Post-Mortem&quot; are solid if not incredible, but they do show you  what some of his typical magazine work was like.  &quot;Rear Window&quot;  (which was first published as &quot;It Had To Be Murder&quot;) is still a  great story, even if you've seen the movie a few hundred times.  Woolrich  keeps the action tense and clautrophobic they way no one else can.   &quot;Momentum&quot; (first published as &quot;Murder Always Gathers  Momemtum&quot;) is a delirious action nightmare that outdoes Camus on the  existential level (Woolrich is far far ahead of any French writer for  existential despair -- and yet he's the one out of print, go figure!).  It  resembles another excellent story, &quot;Dusk to Dawn&quot; that Woolrich  wrote a few years before.<br />And then there's &quot;Three O'Clock&quot;.  Oh  God.  God, what can I say about this story?  Woolrich's biographer called  it his greatest a work, and to read it is &quot;to die a little.&quot;  Be  warned, this is a wrecking piece of prose, so tense and so frightening that  you will never forget it, although you may try....<br />This collection is  worth the price just for this short story alone.	2000-01-16
US	52921642	R632KDACS08F6	0843943556	218091799	The Bells of San Carlos	Books	4	4	4	N	Y	Excellent Brand collection	The short title story is worth the price of the book alone -- inspirational and haunting, it shows waht an amazing craftsman Faust was.  The novella &quot;Cayenne Charlie&quot; also packs a whallop: sentimental  and tough as nails at the same time.	1999-09-15
US	52921642	R2ULRZYVFSJWGB	0803261179	538428659	The Untamed	Books	5	37	39	N	Y	One of the classics of the genre	Frederick Faust (a.k.a. Max Brand and eighteen other psuedonyms) wrote and wrote and wrote and wrote -- 30 million plus words in his career -- and just about everything he turned out is worth reading.  And &quot;The  Untamed&quot; is one of his best.  Forget &quot;The Virginian&quot; and  Zane Grey's pokey novels, &quot;The Untamed&quot; is the fictionalized west  that we know and love, where men and women were larger than life and strode  across a fantasy world of death, lawlessness, and strange beauty.  After  reading this novel, pick any other Faust/Brand title and give it a try: I  guarantee you that you won't find a dud.	1999-09-13
US	52921642	R3LCM1OW887OQS	0684841851	311179126	Power Tarot: More Than 100 Spreads That Give Specific Answers to Your Most Important Question	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Aptly titled!	POWER TAROT is a no nonsense tarot book that will absolutely energize intermediate tarot readers (I agree with some of the other reviews that the book isn't for very beginngers -- the card descriptions are a bit  difficult).  The spreads cover almost any situation and not only provide  answers, but new ways of looking at the questions.  The demystification of  the tarot that the authors practice actually makes tarot more powerful  because it makes it accessible.  Their distinctly modernist and Jungian  philosophy of the tarot is also inspiring.  Highly recommended.	1999-06-08
US	52921642	R2MK72PWMMIX3M	0140071083	514925319	The Haunting of Hill House	Books	5	0	0	N	Y	One of the best horror novels of all time...	This is definitely one of those books that &quot;gets under your skin&quot; without you even knowing it.  Without resorting to cheap thrills and creaky ghost cliches, Shirley Jackson crafts a horrifying story about a  haunted house that figuratively &quot;devours&quot; people -- and we must  live in the mind of its current victim! The prose style and the deft  handling of this difficult bit of perspective are unmatched in horror  literature. Once you read that opening paragraph, you too will find that  you can never escape from Hill House... for there's nothing you can do if  it doesn't want you to leave...	1999-02-01
US	52921642	R23BV2OKOQ1NM2	0486229777	203162394	Best Ghost Stories of Algernon Blackwood (Dover Mystery, Detective, & Other Fiction)	Books	4	14	15	N	N	Two great classics	The title is a little misleading, since it hints at creaky old victorian tales about spectres haunting the houses where they died.  Anyone stumbling blindly into this volume will therefore be shocked by &quot;The  Willows&quot; and &quot;The Wendigo&quot;, two of the best horror stories  ever written.  Most people today don't find the idea of ghosts terribly  scary because they are so easy to understand (spirits of the dead).  &quot;The Willows&quot; is frightening because the forces involved are  almost impossible to understand!  And &quot;The Wendigo&quot; will scare  you away from wintry forest landscapes (and probably most of Canada) for a  good long while!	1998-12-08
US	52921642	RYXUGAO80707A	0880794666	578579785	Albano-Waite Tarot Deck	Books	2	11	17	N	Y	There's such a thing as too much color	Although most people would agree that the original Rider-Waite colors are a bit bland, the Albano-Waite solution is actually worse: the colors are bright but often absurd and weird, making the cards clownish, garish and  distracting (imagine pea green skies and a completely red Knight of  Pentacles). As this is a facsimile, the colors bleed and often obliterate  some of Pamela Colman Smith's details. The dark colors are especially  brackish and cheap looking.  A few cards have some colorful force to them  (The High Priestess is quite striking) but if you're looking for a better  version of the Waite-Smith cards, get the beauitful and finely detailed  &quot;Universal Waite&quot; deck, with its attractive shades and depths.	1998-10-28
US	52921642	RD4GP24IP2TXG	1572810580	219258870	Egyptian Tarots	Books	2	24	29	N	Y	Interesting, but not for beginners	The artwork on this tarot deck faithfully reproduces the hieroglyphic art  of ancient Egypt, but the similarity of the artwork makes this a poor deck  for readings, and the images will baffle beginners. Collectors may want to  take a look, and anyone with a love of ancient Egyptian art will certainly  want to own it, but it is otherwise not a very useful deck.	1998-10-20
US	52921642	RKAOO1106OC8I	1572810408	436802546	Old English Tarot	Books	4	9	11	N	Y	Bored with the Tarot of Marseilles?	The classic Tarot of Marseilles may be just that -- a historical classic  -- but it bores the heck out of many people with its rigid woodcut images.   This tarot deck captures the historical aura of the Marseilles, but  features much better art.  The artist has gently captured the feeling of  the Old English countryside in these images, researched from primary  documents.  Although none of the cards strike home the way decks with more  modern artwork approaches do, it still gives you a sense of the history of  the deck and discards most of the &quot;magickal&quot; detritus the decks  picked up in the twentieth century.  As in Brian Williams' excellent  Renaissance Tarot,  the cards have here returned to their true origin in  the archetypes of European medieval and renaissance culture.	1998-10-14
US	52921642	R2RX24FQOFQWLD	0880794968	753663889	Universal Waite Tarot Deck	Books	4	60	64	N	Y	An attractive alternative to the Rider-Waite	Mary Hanson-Robert's coloring of the famous Waite-Smith images provides a  more soothing and eye-pleasing alternative to the often drab colors of the  popular Rider-Waite version.  Some may find these colors too soft, but I  find this deck quite striking, and you don't have to give up the intuitive  and easy to read images of the Waite-Smith system.  Great for beginners --  skip the Rider-Waite and grab this deck when you want to learn Tarot.	1998-10-14
US	52921642	R10V709FZ6OVLJ	0395595118	669379389	The Lord of the Rings	Books	5	0	0	N	Y	A simple statement	Only one thing need be said about THE LORD OR THE RINGS: what Homer's  ILIAD and ODYSSEY were to the ancient world, LOTR is to our age -- the  greatest epic of our time, a work that defies rational criticism and  appeals to all people in a purely spiritual level. Those who resist...well,  they would've probably called Homer's work &quot;unrealistic garbage&quot;  back in the eight century B.C., so why let the small-minded bother us now?  Utul&iacute;e'n Aurë!  Aiya Eldalie ar Atanatari, utl&iacute;e'n aurë!	1998-08-27
US	52921642	R9F8AQKGT4OG1	0345325818	619220705	The Silmarillion	Books	5	1	2	N	Y	One of the Great 20th Century Achievements	There is nothing quite like this in English literature, nor will there  ever be again.  Tolkien has crafted a work that sings and hums like the  best translation of the Bible...no, it goes beyond the Bible with its more  unified visions and greater sense of poetic beauty.  The passion and pathos  of this epic document of the Elves in the first age of our earth (and let  me make that clear -- this is our history, or Earth, not that of a fantasy  world) almost overwhelms you.  You can say to yourself empirically &quot;I  know this is merely a story created by a 20th century linguistics  professor&quot; but your heart and spirit will never doubt the tale's  truth.  That is Tolkien's remarkable achievement: he makes the fantastic  more real than your own reality.  This isn't &quot;escapism&quot;; if  anything, it will draw you closer to the truly beautiful things in our own  world.	1998-08-26
US	52921642	R284ZOZF4XGJ68	0192824600	745031003	The Library of Greek Mythology (The World's Classics)	Books	3	80	89	N	Y	Good for a reference	The World's Classics sereies has presented a fine new translation of the  Mythology Library of &quot;Apollodorus&quot; (a name of convenience for an  author we know nothing about). Translator and editor Hard cleanly presents  the writer's exhaustive compilation of Greek mythology, and through careful  division and labelling of the sections, reveals some of the author's  meticulous categorization.  For hard-core mythology nuts, this is an  indispensible reference: the Greek myths straight from a collector of  antiquity, and our only glimpse at some important lost works.  But a word  of warning to the layman: Apollodorus is possible the most dull writer of  the ancient world, and he make no attempts to create an entertaining or  even readable work.  It's all dry and dense -- nothing a translator can  really do about that!  If you're looking for a more entertaining ancient  compliation of mythology, try Ovid's delightful METAMORPHOSES.	1998-08-23
US	52921642	R1DJ6NS4QFEZBT	0679602097	22760455	Inferno (Modern Library Series) - English translation	Books	5	14	15	N	N	Ciardi's the Best	There's no doubt about it...Ciardi's is the best translation of the  haunting and powerful poem about the medieval view of God's divine plan.  Ciardi dumps archaisms and goes for the throat of Dante's poetry and  meaning.  You'll never touch another translation after you read this!	1998-08-23
US	52921642	R1IF59H1TQL4L	1567310796	170427841	On Her Majesty's Secret Service (The James Bond Classic Library)	Books	5	0	1	N	N	The Best Bond	Easily the best book in the sensational series, Fleming here combines break-neck spy action, his flair for compelling descriptions, and a very human exploration of James Bond.  Few spy novels have ever achieved this sort of grand synthesis.  Thank God that the movie version was up to the challenge of adapting Fleming's best novel -- the film is almost as good the book, and retained the experimental and touching finale.	1998-07-28
US	52921642	R3BUUFOEW0ES9J	0394758277	283946848	Farewell, My Lovely	Books	5	7	7	N	Y	Almost Chandler's best book.	Only THE LONG GOODBYE merits higher place in the shining canon of prose-poet Raymond Chandler.  This violent, shabby, hilarious, and ultimately very moving novel rockets P.I. Phillips Marlowe through the darkest, seamiest side of Chandler's textured world Los Angeles.  In no other novel does Chandler's razor sharp and witty prose slice so sharply, and his sense of tragic irony (&quot;It isn't funny that a man should die, but it is funny that a man should die for so little&quot;) reaches its zenith.  Hard to put down, impossible to forget.	1998-07-24
US	52921642	R1VO8BS1C6W3QE	0679722637	491670613	The Thin Man	Books	2	8	15	N	N	Hammett's Lukewarm send-off	It always saddens me to think that Hammett, who created hard-boiled literature with THE MALETESE FALCON and RED HARVEST, should close out his writing career with this polite fluff about a married couple solving a socialite murder.  Chandler would years later praise Hammett as the man &quot;who gave murder back to people who had reason to committ it&quot;, but THIN MAN shows an unfortunate regression back to the old school that Hammett helped to eclipse.  This is lightware fare, and nothing else.	1998-07-24
US	52921642	R8GXSP073KWW5	0394757688	849452523	The Long Goodbye	Books	5	13	13	N	N	One of this century's greatest novels	Ostensibly a detective story, this novel is one of the great achievements of twentieth-century literature.  In the first three pages alone, Chandler perfect encapsulates the apathy of modernity, and the prize and rewards offered the lone man who resists the shiftless world of phrases like &quot;who cares?&quot;  The mystery itself isn't as intriguing as Chandler's earlier work, but the depth of characterization, passion, and what can only be described as epic humanization carry it far beyond the calibre of his previous books.  Written in flawlessly penetrating and insightful prose, this novel has more philosophical weight than volumes of French existentialism.	1998-07-24
US	52921642	R1AIYSSD7DW04Y	0553290045	138277602	Boys from Brazil, The	Books	3	1	3	N	N	Ridiculous Fun	This book is wildly implausible but irresistably fun.  Levin adds the gravity of human responsibility to his nutty mad-scientist story to keep it from flying off into camp.  The suspensefull ending is particularly satisfying.	1998-07-24
US	52921642	R2Z7264IHF01ZL	0812509978	618703515	Conan The Invincible	Books	2	1	5	N	N	Fun but slight	Of all the eighties Conan writers, Jordan has the most fun with the character and approaches Howard's style the closest.  This first of his Conan novels  reads quickly and enjoyable, but it still can't compare to Howard's powerful originals.	1998-07-17
US	52921642	R3NWCNA94HOBVM	0449219631	247826792	Jaws	Books	1	5	11	N	N	Bad books do make great movies	It's an old adage among screenwriters that good books often make bad movies, while bad ones often make great movies.  And here's the proof.  JAWS is a horrendous novel written in cheap and artificial prose, filled with boring stereotype characters, loaded with dopey descriptions of gore, and  miserably structured.  And just look what Spielberg did with it!  Read the book only as a lesson about how to adapt bestsellers to the screen.	1998-07-17
US	52921642	R31JI87EGZFSDI	0812524942	437416981	Conan and the Mists of Doom	Books	1	7	9	N	N	The Nadir of the Conan Series	This books shows the latter-day Conan series at its lowest ebb, with Green writing almost on auto-pilot.  I don't even think he knows what's going on in the story, and I certainly don't care.	1998-07-17
US	52921642	RMM4H8WPNSUQV	0803261179	538428659	The Untamed	Books	4	15	15	N	Y	The Beginning of the Western Revolution	More than any other western novel, even more than the better known &quot;Riders of the Purple Sage&quot; and &quot;The Virginian&quot;, &quot;The Untamed&quot; created the modern conception of the west as a violent world of fairy tale.  Brand crafts an elegant melodrama of exaggerated life through his sociopathic hero, Whistlin' Dan Barry, and infuses his story with the violence and passion of Greek tragedy.  This synthesis created the twentieth-century image of the old west.  Brand, who would write over 300 novels in his career, writes with an ease and power that makes every page a joy.	1998-07-17
US	52921642	R364SK0JEXN6MS	0679722610	645212410	Red Harvest	Books	4	0	0	N	N	A Revolutionary &quot;Novel&quot;	It's hard to overemphasize just how important this book is to modern literature.  In one fell swoop, Dashiell Hammett forever upset the world of &quot;nice&quot; genteel adventure and mystery stories, flooding the world in a clipped, tight-lipped, ugly torrent of blood and violence -- and I ain't compaining!  Just about all modern novels and films of savagery and violence can be traced back to this crazy-kilter detective story in the sin-burg of Poisonville.  I give it four stars instead of the full five only because the narrative, composed of linked but separately published units, doesn't cohere in the same astonishing way that Hammett's follow-ups, &quot;The Maltese Falcon&quot; and &quot;The Glass Key&quot; do.  Still a kinetic fix for those interested in the seamier side of classic American literature.  Practically adapted lock stock n' barrell by Akira Kurosawa for his Samurai movie &quot;Yojimbo&quot; (which later became &quot;Fistful of Dollars&quot; and &quot;La! st Man Standing&quot; -- the latter coming the closest to Hammett's original setting, making this sequence a huge circle back to the origin of species).	1998-07-17
US	52921642	R1N4L52AFSLP1T	156882078X	934037211	The Xothic Legend Cycle: The Complete Mythos Fiction of Lin Carter (Call of Cthulhu)	Books	2	14	22	N	N	Silly Lin Carter exegesis on Lovecraft	As usual for the Chaosium series, editor Price gushes academically about minor entries in the Lovecraftian Derby, and it's never more evident than in this collection of Lin Carter's mythos tales. Carter was a supremely talented editor and a good heroic fantasy writer (I love his Throngor novels) but his mythos writing falls prey to juvenile adoration and extremely flimsy plotting. Price's attempts to defend Carter's over-categorization of the mythos merely exacerbates the silliness of most of Carter's work.  Interesting for mythos completists, but newcomers should seek other books in this series that deal with multiple authors (highly recommended: &quot;The Hastur Cycle&quot; and &quot;The Nyarlathotep Cycle&quot;).	1998-07-17
US	52921642	R3PWVPCC3CA9IY	1871592119	739209308	The Great God Pan (Creation Classics)	Books	5	31	35	N	N	One of the most unsual and effective horror tales	While the Victorian literary horror world revolved around vampires, Frankenstein monsters, and creaky ghosts in old castles, Machen wrote this terrifying story of the  insatiable and malign spirit of nature invading our world through sexual means. Machen tells his story through an intriguing structure that slowly reveals the true horror behind a string of socialite murders. For anyone interested in novels of terror that go beyond the mundane and into the realm of spiritual nightmare.	1998-06-19
US	52921642	R3QTS5GE9JK2YP	088184408X	612647154	The Lurker at the Threshold	Books	2	3	8	N	N	The usual Derlethian mess	August Derleth's &quot;posthumous collaboration&quot; with his idol H.P. Lovecraft (despite the credit, Lovecraft's contributions are merely snippets of his writing journal) is just all over the map, trying to tie three unrelated plot strands together through the usual Derlethian haunted house mumbo-jumbo.  Some chilling sequences, but Derleth has jimmed so much mythos information into the story that it reads less as a horror novel and more like some junior high school kid's diary of all the &quot;neat stuff&quot; in Lovecraft.  Derleth did this much better in his short stories, especially &quot;The Dweller in Darkness.&quot;	1998-06-18
