US	52923476	R38UJ43D7Q7KX4	0735621748	429912198	Microsoft® Windows® Security Resource Kit	Books	5	20	21	N	N	Terrific update to excellent security guide!	I have previously done a review of the First Edition of the Microsoft Windows Security Resource Kit which I was very impressed with. All what I said for that book still applies. The first book applied to Windows 2000 and XP Pro. Since then there has been a major upgrade for XP in SP2 and the introduction of Windows 2003 which the Second Edition covers. As with the first book this edition is great for anyone that wants to learn how to secure their Windows 2000/2003/XP Pro operating systems/networks and is geared mostly to administrator types though anyone with such interest including power users will find it extremely helpful.     In just under 700 pages no book can be all inclusive about Windows security. The Windows Security Resource Kit goes into detail on many commonly implemented topics like password/account policy and on others it shows you the basics of what is possible and then refers you to online documantation/white papers if you are interested in a full implementaion which keeps the book affordable, readable, and under 10,000 pages. For example there is a full chapter 25 with detailed instruction on how to implement 802.1X security for wired and wireless networks. For Software Restriction Policies there are three pages but that is enough to make a user aware of what SRP is, how it can help you prevent users from installing and running unathorized applications, and the basics of how to implement it. As a MCSE in Windows 2003:Security and a common newsgroup participant I am often amazed at the number of admnistrators that are not aware of many the security features of Windows 2000/2003/XP Pro such as SRP or in particular ipsec. They would benefit tremendously from this book.    The two chapters on privacy were dropped and more room is devoted to W2003/XP Pro. Though a lot of the content is the same as the previous version much as been revised or added. Below are some that I considered of note though my list is not all inclusive of changes.    CH3. A much better table with descriptions of well known sids.  CH8. Using EFS with Webdav to keep files encrypted on the network and sharing of EFS files.  CH9. Full list AND description of all services for Windows 2000/2003/XP Pro.  CH10. Windows firewall including how to configure for scope and exceptions, using Group Policy or scripted intstallations using netfw.inf. Improvements for ipsec in Windows 2003 including default exemption handling.  CH.11 Group Policy for wireless networks and Software Restriction Policies.  CH.12 Interet Explore securtiy and pop up blocker.  CH.15 One of my favorite chapters on auditing. Includes tables with listing of more Event ID's for object access and policy change.   CH.17 Listed specific service recommendations for domain controllers for both Windows 2000/2003 and also listed a recommended ipsec filter for securing a domain controller.  CH.19 Much is changed in 2003 Terminal Servies. - Use of Software Restriction Policies, smart card logon, and SSL for TS with SP1.  CH.22 For RRAS a big change is the cability of remote access quarantine control. A step by step is given with a link to sample scripts to use or modify.  CH.23 Implementation of role separation for certificate authorities.  CH.24 IIS 6.0 is disussed with it's security capabilities such as default install state, Automatic Health Monitoring, and the all important Application Isolation.  Ch.25 A whole step by step chapter on 802.1X for wired and wireless networks including Remote Access Policies, IAS, and deploying user and computer certificates. 802.1X can greatly increase security of WEP by using dynamic wep and forcing key renewal if you still have to use WEP.  CH.27 Briefy discusses Windows Update Services and its advantages.  CH.29 How to install and use the Windows 2003 SP1 Security Configuration Wizard to help select a computer profile for \\"hardening\\" to disable uneeded servces, configure audit policy, and use ipsec filters to block uneeded ports! In my opinion this is a tremendous tool that also has a rollback capability. New features of netstat are shown [note that netstat -b can be used to show executeable to port use though not covered in the book]. Two extremely helpful new tools - portquery and port reporter.  CH.31 Great table on using built in and third party tools to capture state of the computer for incident response investigation. I am surprised however that msinfo32 was not mentioned as you can use it to generate a very useful report to a .nfo file.      There is much discussion throughout the book on use of ipsec to protect your network with either ESP/AH encryption/integrity or the use of an ipsec \\"filter\\" policy to manage access to computer ports. Included are examples of ipsec filters for domain controller, wins, and DHCP. As much as I like the book I disagree with the recommendation on pages 375-376 on implementing ipsec for the domain by implementing a client/respond policy for the domain and then a server require ipsec policy for the domain controller container. Refer to KB254949 for more details and be sure to throughly test and ipsec policies on a test domain before implementing. Poorly planned ipsec implementation can cause havoc on a domain. I highly recommend that you read the white paper on Improving Security with Domain Isolation to see ipsec can do to protect your domain with the proper ipsec policies.    All in all I still believe that the Microsoft Windows Security Resource Book is a top notch book for anyone to own who wants to learn how to maximize security on their computer or network within their risk manangement paramaters. The changes in Windows XP Pro SP2 and more so Windows 2003 are very significant. If you already own the First Edtition but have upgraded to Windows 2003 or want to learn more about how Windows 2003 can improve your security then this book is for you.	2005-07-15
US	52923476	R1VUNBXHMCRECM	0782143504	409844455	Security+ Study Guide, 2nd Edition (SYO-101)	Books	4	9	10	N	N	Decent well written core book.	I recently passed the Security+ exam and the Sybex Security+ guide Second Edition was one of my core books. I thought overall it was an excellent read but gave it four stars because it is lacking coverage on a few areas. In particular ipsec [AH & ESP], various scan methods [half scan, etc], and it could have used a little more info on token type logons such as synchronous dynamic password. 802.1X was not covered but I did not have any questions on the exam though my other books did cover 802.1X. If the book covered those areas better with maybe ten more pages of length I would give it five stars. <br /> <br />Other than that the explainations were mostly excellent along with a lot of helpful illustrations for the less advanced student. The end of chapter summaries and exam essentials were helpful in that they are good for reviewing. The sample questions [150] at the end of each chapter were not unlike those on the exam and the answer pages included good explainations. The end of the book contained a 38 page glossary of all the terms you should be familiar with and a brief but helpful explaination. <br /> <br />The exam itself had very short one or two sentence questions. I just want to comment that there seems to be a lot of book bashing going on with certification exam books. First off I never rely on a single book for an exam and this exam assumes you have knowledge of a Network+ certification and about a year experience with networking. There were some questions on the exam that I did not see clearly answered in any book but the topics were covered and you have to understand the jist of what they were getting at. A part of the Security+ exam is on topics that do not have cut and dry answers such as operational/organizational security and rely on some common sense or experience such as policies, BCP, people issues, and security awareness. Having said that the Sybex Security+ book is well worth reading for the Security+ exam as long as you also supplement your studies to cover the few areas that it is lacking on.	2005-04-14
US	52923476	R3RKFUDZAYBPFM	0764525999	47252324	Security+ Prep Guide	Books	5	7	7	N	Y	On the mark for those that want just the facts.	I recently passed the Security+ exam and the Wiley Security+ Prep Guide was one of my main books. Don't let the size of it fool you as it covers the topics including needed details. Though not an Exam Cram type book it is for those users that like to cut out all the fluff and already understand most of the material on the Security+ exam. Though I could have probably passed with this book alone, if you are not comfortable about the topics and are not failry familiar with tcp/ip, VPN's, routers, firewalls, access controls, PKI, malware, etc you may not want to use this as your first book.  <br /> <br />The end of chapter questions and explainations were great and the questions were not unlike the ones on the test. When reading the book pay attention to anything in italics as that is an important concept or term. The authors do get into some of the topics pretty heavy duty [for a basic security book]such as cryptology details, kerberos formulas on page 11, and WEP encryption process on pages 90 and 91. You may find the more esoteric stuff interesting such as that but I did not find any related questions on the exam. Just to repeat - you need to know about kerberos, WEP, and cryptology, just not that level of detail. <br /> <br />Be prepared to find questions on the exam that you swear are not in this or any book. Some of the topics like chapter 5 for operation/organizational security will spawn questions that require you to know the jist of the topics being covered and require you to rely on common sense and experience to make the correct choice. In my opinion the Wiley Security+ Prep Guide is a must read for the Security+ exam but depending on your level of experience you may not want it to be your first book.	2005-04-14
US	52923476	R203PJFEJ6VOUQ	1931836191	137384280	Dr. Tom Shinder's Configuring ISA Server 2004	Books	5	55	58	N	N	ISA 2004 maximized.	ISA 2004 is Microsoft's latest and greatest entry into the firewall market and make no mistake as that is what it is - a high performance, sophisticated, deep application filtering, enterprise class, but easy to configure firewall with the ability to be a VPN server, produce boatloads of reports and logging, and integrate with Active Directory for user authentication, even if not a domain member, via IAS/radius and also cache web content - whew! It is a very significant upgrade from ISA 2004 and in my opinion much easier to configure. The author and his community groups were very involved in helping Microsoft to develop ISA 2004 with real world user feedback and wants.     From reading the book Tom Shinder is obviously very enthusiastic about ISA 2004. This is not a book with a bunch of copy and pastes from the help files and Microsoft white papers. The authors are very familiar with ISA 2004 and network security and how to implement it in a number of different scenarios. There are many of the author's tricks and traps in configuration that can save you a lot of time setting up your ISA server. Each chapter ends with a summary \\"Solutions Fast Track\\" that are multi sentence main points of the chapter content followed by some helpful FAQ. Throughout the book are many references to Microsoft relevant articles and links to the author's website that is a great resource for any version of ISA. The focus of the book is not just on ISA 2004 but also the required network and client configuration to get everything working in harmony.    The book is well organized and you do not have to read the whole book to learn how to implement ISA 2004. There is a whole chapter just on features including comparison to ISA 2000 and another on comparing ISA 2004 to other enterprise firewalls such as CheckPoint, Cisco, and Netscreen to help you determine if ISA is right for you. The myth that a real firewall can not have a hard drive and only be configured by highly paid firewall consultantsvia the command line is debunked. Chapter 4 shows you how to configure and optimize your network for firewall protection. Gone is the LAT and now each network adapter can be configured separate from each other [including access rules between them] and allows the use of a DMZ. Proper dns configuration is frequently explained, including \\"split dns\\" as propers dns name resolution is crucial for a network to funtion and is often misunderstood. Chapter 5 goes into detail on the firewall clients - secure NAT, Firewall Client, and web proxy and how to determine which are best for you and how to implement and configure them in an automated fashion using Group Policy, DHCP, or DNS. Secure NAT is simply using the ISA server as the default gateway for the client which allows it to be used by any operating system. Web proxy and Firewall Client can be used to require user authentication in an access rule! Of course other chapters cover firewall rules [access rules], web and server publishing, installation, dns configuration including \\"split dns\\", configuring caching, VPN, using built in templates, how to implement ssl, backing up and restoring configuration, intrusion detection, running reports, configuring/viewing logs, IAS/radius integration, and more.    The chapter on VPN covers all the features including how to set up site to site VPN's using pptp, l2tp, or ipsec tunnel mode [for compatibility with third party devices]. ISA 2004 has the ability to create access rules to restrict what content the VPN users can access on the lan or internet and integrate with IAS/radius for user authentication. How to request and install certificates is shown for use with l2tp, ipsec, and web servers. The book is loaded with explicit step by step instructions such as for certificates so as not to leave the user scratching their head or trying to figure out exactly how to implement specific tasks. These step by step instructions will be of great help for the more novice ISA 2004 user. Publishing a web server and configuring it for ssl was covered in great detail for the various methods. Apparently this has been a problem point for ISA admins in the past [particualry proper certificate selection and installation] and the authors wanted to make sure users got it right.    Chapter 10 on stateful inspection and application layer filtering is of note. ISA 2004 has some very powerful abilities in this regard. They are not difficult for the most part to configure which the authors covered well but in addition they listed tables of specific recommendations of lists for particular HTTP security filters. For instance you can have an access rule and configure HTTP filtering for extensions to prevent users from downloading executeable content including .zip files. I tried to block .mp3 downloads via HTTP and it worked well for that also. Various methods were shown how to prevent users from using progamas like Kazaa and P2P applications with the various categories in HTTP filtering including headers and signatures. The same HTTP filtering can also be used when you publish a web server behind ISA 2004 for advanced protection from the internet. Numerous examples of using the built in netmon to capture network traffic to help show you how to spot entries to add to HTTP filters were given.    The logging and reports available with ISA 2004 give a great deal on information on what is going on with firewall access, intrusion detection, and user statistics. Chapter 12 shows you how to use the built in reports, create custom ones, and filter connected users and log views. It is easy to pull reports showing top websites visited, top web users, top protocols used, and top bandwidth users for instance. Most admins would find these reports very useful. It is easy to view currently connected users, including VPN, and what client they are using.     ISA 2004 is an impressive product that is relatively easy to use. Much more so than ISA 2000 in my opinion which helps lower it's TCO. Most users will be able to get up and running in no time at all and then be able to investigate the more advanced features which are numerous. Tom and Deb Shinder's book Configuring ISA Server 2004 will be of great help to anyone who wants to get the most out of ISA 2004 and explore all it's possibilities and implement them on their network for maximum network protection.	2005-02-06
US	52923476	RFO1ABKPB5QZ6	0735620210	967514389	Microsoft® Windows Server™ 2003 PKI and Certificate Security	Books	5	10	10	N	Y	Great recource on how PKI can protect your network.	The Windows Server 2003 PKI and Certificate Security book will demystify PKI and certificate based security implementations for you. It will be very helpful to anyone who wants to learn what PKI can do for them or needs to know the specifics of how to implement it in their network for many uses from large networks to the small office. For many the thought of PKI, intimidates them. It should not as it really is not that difficult and can improve your security tremendously over traditional password based authentication and allow use of strong encryption and digital signing [proof of entity and integrity]. PKI is used to generate public and private keypairs for use in applications such as L2TP VPN, IPSEC, 802.1X authentication for wireless and wired networks, EFS file encryption, application signing, secure email encryption and signing, SSL website security, and smart cards.    The book starts out with the basic concepts of PKI and the use of symmetric and asymmetric encrytpion and how they work together in PKI. It also explains digital signiatures - the other big use for certificates/private keys. It is written to be very understandable and the user or admin that has little understanding of PKI should have no problem learing the content and implemeting it. It does assume a basic understanding of Active Directory for Enterprise Certificate Authority use and also covers stand alone Certificate Authority. The book is also written so that you can refer to indivudual chapters such as the excellent chapter on how to implement 802.1X wireless if you do not need to know other material covered.    PKI hierarchy is well covered whether you need to install a single CA, levels of CA's in your network, or even how to setup cross trusts to other CA hierarchies for full trust or conditional trust. If you have a Windows 2000 forest you can learn how to prep your forest schema for using a Windows 2003 Enterprise CA to take advantage of the new features such as autoenrollent for XP clients, configurable version 2 certificate templates, and archivable private keys for certificates used for encryption.    Other important topics such as how to install a CA, configure a CAPolicy.inf file, use the certutil utility for many tasks, obtaining and implementing your own OID, role separation for those that need it, CRL and AIA publication points which is very important to the success of your PKI particularly if you are going to use an offline CA or for computers not on your network that use your certificates, configuring an offline CA and securing it, using HSM's - hardware security modules to protect the CA's private key, how to configure version 2 templates, configuring Group Policy for autoenrollment, configuring auditing, using Web Enrollment, how to backup and restore your CA and disaster recovery, how to publish certificates to Active Directory using certutil or PKIhealth tool, the concept of \\"chaining\\" to a trusted root CA [very important], and more. With the book comes a lot of helpful tools and scripts such as an example of a CAPolicy.inf and numerous scripts including enroll.vbs that can be used to enroll users on Windows 2000 computers for certificates via logon script.    The last part of the book is about application specific use of certificates such as for EFS, email, VPN, smart cards, and more. The chapters cover the advantages of using certifcates for each application, how to plan it, and the specifics of how to implement including how to configure certificate templates and issue certificates to users and computers in in a step by step fashion to have you up and running for that application. There are many tricks and traps in the book that can save a user a lot of time such as verifying that a VPN server is in the RAS and IAS servers group as one example. These tips show that the book is much more than a cut and paste of white papers as some books are. Then end of each chapter has links to many related KB articles, white papers, and RFC's for those that want more information.    I found the Windows Server 2003 PKI and Certificate Security book puts it all together for Windows 2003 PKI from understanding the concept of PKI to putting it to use in your own network to greatly enhance your security. Microsoft has many excellent white papers and articles on PKI for Windows 2003 but for many this book will be all that is needed and an invaluable resource for those that use it, plan to use it, or want to know more about it.	2005-01-14
US	52923476	RZC2FWW1DLJ16	0735619719	150533851	MCSA/MCSE Self-Paced Training Kit (Exams 70-292 and 70-296): Upgrading Your Certification to Microsoft® Windows Server™ 2003: Upgrading Your ... 2003 (Microsoft Press Training Kit)	Books	5	19	20	N	N	Great foundation for 70-292 and 70-296 studies	I recently upgraded my MCSE 2000 to MCSE 2003 and used this book as my core study material. First off I must say that unless you are very experienced with Windows 2003 I doubt any single book alone will suffice to provide all the needed material. Having said that for me it was a great start explaining the differences between 2000 and 2003 and hammering home the important points. It makes references to other online sources such as various white papers for more detailed information which should be taken advantage of. The explainations of trusts, dns namespace and name resolution, sites/global catalogs, UPN logon, users/groups, Group Policy, software installations, Organzational Units, redirected folders, Terminal Services/Remote Desktop, and backup/restores/shadow volume, were particualry good and very accurate. However I thought that the information on Certificate Services/PKI was a bit lacking and is HEAVILY covered in the 70-296 exam.    The quiz questions in the book are quite good with some real brain teasers that help you determine if you know a subject good enough. I would not spend too much time on questions that relate to rote memory facts but concentrate on those that present a problem/solution format. The real exams rarely test you on memorizing facts anymore like the maximum memory this edition of the operating system can have, etc. What is very helpful is that many of the questions will supply the answer, why it is right and why the others are wrong. I did not even try the cdrom quizzes. There are several hands on practice examples in the book. Unless you are real familiar with the particular topic I would be sure to do them and at least read through the others as there is often helpful information included such as the permissions needed on a share for redirect folders.    Beyond the book I did supplement my studies with pertinent chapters from the Windows 2003 Server Resource kit which you can download free. Of course I have had a lot of hands on experience with Windows 2003. In my case this was on my own home network, so you don't have to work in a large network. The one area as mentioned previously I thought Upgrading Your Certification to Microsoft Windows Server 2003 was lacking in was Certificate Services/PKI to the extent that the exam covered it. In general the upgrade exams, particularly 70-296, were heavy on security. Much more so than any past exams I took. What I suggest and what worked for me was to also supplement my studies with the Microsoft Press MCSE book on implementing security for the 70-299 exam. That book covered PKI, ipsec, kerberos/ntlm authentication, smart cards, and wireless network security in much more detail that I found helpful.    All in all if found the Micrsoft Press MCSA/MCSE Upgrading Your Certification to Microsoft Windows Server 2003 to be a great core study guide. If you look at it in that regard and not the sole source of information to pass the exams, which in my opinion is unrealistic, I believe you will find it very helpful.	2004-12-29
US	52923476	R1S21B8CVR3V1E	0735618682	429912198	Microsoft® Windows® Security Resource Kit (Pro-Resource Kit)	Books	5	31	31	N	N	Great security info and not just for administrators	The Windows Security Resource Kit is a wonderful wealth of information on securing Windows networks and operating systems. It is useful for anyone above the beginner level. It concentrates on using features of primarily Windows 2000 and XP to maximize security for various levels of needs. It is not about building a bastion host or configuring firewalls.<br />It is not a \\"cookbook\\" like too many training manuals are these days and is not full of fluff - it covers a lot of territory in it's 680 pages and is not geared for technogeeks, but is clearly written and understandable to the average Joe and Jane [except page 349]. The first two chapters put you in the security \\"mindset\\" - Key Principles of Security [including the Ten Immutable Laws of Security] and Understanding Your Enemy. I think that is very important, because security needs to be approached from an attitude about what you are up against and how only one vulnerability can sink your boat.<br />The next twenty three chapters are logically divided into security topics that can later be accessed easily as needed for reference purposes. Each chapter ends with best pratices recap and references to other books or Knowledge Base articles. <br />I thought the \\"meat\\" of the book was thorough, interesting, and accurate. Finally I have one place to go for an explaination of what ALL the user rights, security options, and services are. There is an excellent chapter on securing tcp/ip with specific recommendations on registry modifications to defend against a denial of service attack and even a .vbs script on the cdrom to implement them all. An equally excellent chapter on auditing including comprehensive tables explaining  Event Ids and Event ID 681 failure codes. I finally know what the difference is between auditing account log on and log on events. Chapter 10 goes into great detail about ALL of the various settings in the Web Content Zones for Internet Explorer and how to configure them for your needs. Cookie/Privacysettings are also explained in detail. Chapter 7 includes specific recommendations on ntfs security settings for every folder in a new installation and a security template to implement them. I was impressed with Chapter 21 in that it shows you how to secure an IIS 5.0 server without having to be an IIS expert. Chapters 22 and 23 nicely explain patch management, Windows Update, using Microsoft Baseline Security Analyzer tool, and using SUS for patch management on a large scale basis. The chapter on remote access and vpn explains the differences in pptp and l2tp and when to use each. Other chapters cover securing Terminal Services, authentication - various settings for Lan Manager authentication level, managing security templates/Security Configuration and Analysis tool, wireless networking/WEP, EFS [ten pages of crucial info], ipsec, Certificate Services, Group Policy, Active Directory [I now know how to use dsacls to reset object permissions to default], securing laptops [very informative], permissions, account/password policies, and managing users. Chapter 24 covers using security assessment tools including how to port scan and a extensive chart of common Windows ports and what applications use them.<br />Part VI of the book breaks away from Windows specific configurations and is called Planning and Performing Security Assessments and Incident Responses. It discusses vulnerability scanning, penetration testing, and security audits. This part is also extremely informative to those of us who are not trained in what to do after an incident - what to do when an intrusion is detected, who to inform , and most importantly how to preserve data in the event of criminal prosecution or to reconstruct the attack. The last chapter goes into privacy issues that one needs to know as how far can one go in gathering information from a legal standpoint.<br />Windows Security Resource kit is a very valuable resource in my opinion to anyone interested in securing a Windows computeror network. The writing style is very understandable and you do not have to read the whole book for it to make sense if only certain topics are of interest. It does not however go into too much detail on importance of virus/trojan protection or perimiter/firewall security but there are whole other books written on those topics. The included cdrom has many tools from the Resource Kit and the book itself. I also highly recommend it to anyone studying for their MCSE and consider it a \\"must have\\" for anyone planning to take any of the MCSE security exams or pursue the MCSE Security certification. Kudos to Microsoft Press for this one.	2003-08-12
US	52923476	RCKMC8JMJPK4F	073561878X	453915891	MCSA/MCSE Self-Paced Training Kit (Exam 70-214): Implementing and Administering Security in a Microsoft Windows 2000 Network (Pro-Certification)	Books	4	18	19	N	N	A good start  to learning a vast topic.	After reading the Microsoft Press book for the 70-214 exam, I can recommend it as a good start to learning about securing a Windows 2000 network, which covers a lot of territory. Since I am already a MCSE I do not plan on taking the exam but read the book because I am always interested in security books. The book has a lot of content and is loaded with step by step instructions and exercises, so much so that I thought it was mostly a &quot;cook book&quot; and light on the theory and practical experience end. The end of chapter questions were very brief and few in number. However the content covered was thorough and by and large accurate (the statements that ipsec requires certificates and that NT4.0 workstations apply the user configuration part of group policy are wrong). It was nice to see a specific example of how to use secedit and create a few basic script files. Kerberos authentication was nicely explained along with the benefits, and why and how you should upgrade older clients to Active Directory Client to get them up to NTLM 2. There was quite a bit of coverage on pki and setting up cerificate services and great examples of using Web Enrollment to obtain certificates. The usual stuff on managing groups/users, share and ntfs permissions, and user permissions were covered. Vpn explanations were fairly thorough, with especially good explanation of differences between pptp and l2tp. It was nice to find a chapter on wireless security that included a step by step example to setting up a WAP. The section on IIS security does not require you to be a guru at IIS, but gets to the point on how to implement various authentication methods to a website from anonymous to ssl and why and when to use each. Intrusion detection is a basic part of network security and using group policy to enable various types of auditing and using Eventcomb is well covered. There is even a lesson on how to set up and use a honey pot. The often misunderstood IPSEC is explained well enough thatyou can learn how to implement, create a custom policy, and do some basic troubleshooting. Service packs and hot fixes are an important part to maintaining a secure operating system, and chapter 14 covers how to use various tools like MBSA and Qchain to determine the need for and to effeciently implement these updates. Slipstreaming service packs and using RIS is also well explained.<BR>     There was a lot for me to like about Implementing and Administering  Security, but I felt it was short in a few areas also. It could have used an intro chapter explaining the importance of security and ramifications of lack of to get the reader in the right mindset, but the first page jumps right into group policy. There could have also been an ending &quot;put it all together&quot; summary chapter with general tips/tricks like the top ten security blunders or how to harden a Windows 2000 server like Microsoft has on their website. I saw very little on disabling uneeded services (though the MBSA tool checks for that). There was little detail about EFS which trips up a lot of users using it by losing their data or believing it is secure when it is not. Dcdiag and netdiag were briefly covered, but these are two very useful tools deserve more - they help troubleshoot when policies are not applied correctly. MBSA was not covered in much detail either. A couple pages on the mysterious   anonymous/null session account, what it is used for, how it is a security risk, and what to do about it would have been a great inclusion. Finally I thought that even though the explanation of implementing security policy and templates was good, there was very little explanation of what any of the settings in user rights or security options actually do. Incorrect configurations of some of them can lead to problems in environments with downlevel clients and NT4.0 servers. <BR>    In Summary I though the book was a good read and worth keeping, but I would be hesitant to advise anyone to use this book alone to prepare for the 70-214 exam. It would be a good book to have even if not planning to take the exam, because it explains a lot of topics required to know in more detail than you will find in &quot;core four&quot; books. I highly recommend the Microsoft Press Design Security 70-220 book as a possible read to reinforce/supplement topics found here. I also STRONGLY suggest spending time at Microsoft TechNet security website. It has a tremendous amount of detailed information about topics covered in the book and much more including white papers. Finally if you are serious about learning about securing Microsoft networks beyond requirements for this exam I also recommend reading Hacking Windows 2000 Exposed and Inside Network Perimeter Security as a good foundation.<br />.	2003-03-17
US	52923476	R2P99NXX0CPJSP	0072192623	427798469	Windows 2000 (Hacking Exposed)	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Windows security demystified!	How do these hackers find my Windows network? What info can they get? How do they actually \\"connect\\" and compromise my system? Can I do anything about it? Will it be hard, expensive or will I have to hire somebody or maybe will just a firewall do? What is this netbios thing anyhow? If you have questions like this then this book is for you. Hacking Windows 2000 Exposed is not a book about building a bastion host, configuring a firewall, or encryption theory. It does however show in a very understandable way how \\"hackers\\" use common system utilities(netstat,net,nslookup,etc)and free tools(superscan,etc) to find weaknesses in a network or computer and exploit them for fun or profit. I think Microsoft has gotten a bad rap about producing insecure operating systems. Fact is that Windows 2000 can be VERY secure, but by default it is configured for ease of use and backwards compatability (that is changing in .NET Server). Equipped with the right knowledge such as this book, and being serious about taking the time and effort to do something, the vast majority of hack attacks will be stopped cold. 99.9% of hackers are unsophisticated and exploit common weaknesses and negligence. As the book explains weak passwords, no account lockout policy, lack of physical security, and using file and print sharing carelessly are still the biggest problems. However of course there are MANY other issues that need to be dealt with. <BR> Hacking Windows 2000 Exposed is very well organized. It takes you through the steps of how someone actually compomises a system and what you can do about it. It puts you in the mindset of a hacker and their methodology - finding a network, extracting information about it, attempting the connect/attack, gaining access, trying to get system or administrator access, reaking havok, and covering their tracks - maybe even leaving a backdoor for remote control! This approach to writing the book will leave you well prepared to defend yourself, audit activity, and show you how to test your own network for vulnerability. You will learn about netbios, network utilities, authentication <BR>protocols, ports, services, anonymous access, permissions, sniffers - how they can be used against you, what to do about it and a whole lot more. The first part of the book focuses on the Windows 2000 operating system. Later chapters focus on applications such as Internet Information Server, SQL, and Internet Explorer(including some great tips everyone can use) and tells you how to manage them for maximum security. The end of the book covers specific security features of Windows 2000 such as Ipsec, Efs, group policy, seurity templates, and how to use them. Appendix A is a concise summary on how to lock down your Windows 2000 computer - a recap of concepts covered throughout the book. Each chapter also has a very helpful summary at the end that reinforces what was covered(specifically the actions to take) in case you are overwhelmed by technical detail in the reading. I like to periodically go back and leaf through the chapter summaries as kind of a refresher course of the meat of what is covered in the book. There is a list of references of other books and internet sites for further reading if more info is desired of material covered in each chapter. I highly recommend Hacking Windows 2000 Exposed to anyone intested in protecting their network and computers from unauthorized access - even those who have just a few computers at home and a cable/dsl connection should take heed. The writing style assumes you have some basic understanding of networking but is definitely not just for techies and keeps your interest. For many this could be their only book about network security and others their first book or a must have addition.	2002-11-11
US	52923476	R1VUXM7X9P7X5Q	0735611343	617616678	MCSE Training Kit (Exam 70-220): Designing Microsoft® Windows® 2000 Network Security: Designing Microsoft(r) Windows(r) 2000 Network Security (IT-Training Kits)	Books	5	11	12	N	N	A must read - even if not planning to take 70-220!!	I did not take the exam for 70-220 due to a change in Microsoft policy that upgraded me to W2K MCSE status. However since I already had the book and find security very interesting and important I read it a couple of times. I found it extremely informative, well organized, and understandable. This book is much more than a step by step how to with screen shots manual that so many of the &quot;core four&quot; books seem to be - and you will need to look elsewhere if that is what you need, you will not learn how to install Certificate Services here. Each chapter starts with a network design scenario, presents you the theory/options and ends with the solution. Security relates to almost every action one takes on a W2K network. The first half of the book dealt with the more mundane security topics that most should already know by the time they are preparing for design exams - active directory design, group policies, dns, security groups, and file permissions. However the last half is where you learn the good stuff - ipsec, rras policies and authentication, public key infrastructure including certificate services, internet access, vpn, and securing an extranet with firewalls. I read three different books on 70-216, but this book still taught me a lot, especially about ssl and pki. The explanation of, and how to implement certificate services and smart cards was great. It also explained thoroughly about when to use a private versus public and standalone verus enterprise certificate server. I finally have a good understanding of when to use pptp versus l2tp for a vpn. Ipsec had a whole 50 page chapter devoted to it explaining in detail how to implement it. Page 413 has an excellent explanation on what goes on between a web client and a web server during ssl when logging into a secure website, and page 485 has a terrific and concise table showing all the remote access authentication protocols from Pap to Ms-ChapV2 to Eap-Tls and how to determine which to use for a particularcondition and why. The chapter on securing an extranet was loaded with helpful diagrams and charts showing specific protocol/port/address/action settings for a particular firewall setup. Throughout the book there were LOTS of helpful charts and diagrams to accompany the text. I find the &quot;making the decision&quot; tables to be an extremely helpful learning tool - an exam cram type of summary of what was just covered. One side of the table lists what you want to accomplish while the other side lists your options. The end of chapter questions are all challenging &quot;fill in the blank&quot; type based on a mini case study. The answers with an explanation are at the end of the book. I was very impressed with the book. Since security is such an important core concept of networking I highly recommend this study guide to anyone wanting to learn more about Windows 2000 network security.	2001-11-16
US	52923476	RRMNK332W43SO	0782128726	608964175	Mastering Windows 2000 Server (Third Edition)	Books	5	16	16	N	N	It keeps getting better!	I did a review of Mark's book on 02/11/01 for the second edition which I really enjoyed and I am not going to repeat most of what I covered there. The third edition is a nice improvement - particularly in the area of Active Directory and the all important DNS. I recently achieved my MCSE certification for Windows 2000, and after reading over a dozen Windows 2000 books I will say that in my opinion Mastering Windows 2000 Server 3RD Edition is the best single volume Windows 2000 book available. If you are considering studying for the W2K MCSE I highly recommend that you read this &quot;real world&quot; book FIRST all the way through instead of trying to concentrate on areas pertinent to each exam individually. A good understanding of Tcp/Ip, DNS, and Active Directory (including group policies and delegation), that this book will give you, is crucial for your success. The chapters on IIS and Terminal Services were much better than anything I read in any of my &quot;core four&quot; books. Mark's writing style of course is very enjoyable and his tips are much appreciated. Now being a little critical, I would have liked to have seen info on configuring remote access policies, certificate services, and ipsec - maybe next edition. Still a must own book for serious Windows 2000 Server users.	2001-11-02
US	52923476	R2V7IVDMZSJTFK	157610690X	658979428	MCSE Windows 2000 Accelerated Exam Prep (Exam: 70-240)	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Good info, but not enough.	I read this book first on my path to become a Windows 2000 MCSE and it has a lot of good material, particularly on Active Directory. However with less than 700 pages of study text I felt for me it would have not been enough info for the exams. There is almost no coverage on certificate services or ipsec, and very little on rras which is very important. Disk management is not covered in enough detail either in my opinion. Yet the book went into great detail on Active Directory Schema details and Active Directory Connector in chapters 9 and 10 of which I did not see anything on my exams - those chapters can be virtually skipped. I will say that the end of chapter Real-World Projects are very usefull lab exercises. Although I found this book to be a great first read on Windows 2000 Server, I would not recommend that anyone use it alone to try to pass 70-240. In conjunction with Microsoft website, technet, white papers, and online practice exams it might be possible to pull it off if you are going to try to upgrade on the cheap.	2001-10-21
US	52923476	R2YZ064O4HZULF	0735611327	507761702	MCSE Training Kit (Exam 70-219): Designing a Microsoft® Windows® 2000 Directory Services Infrastructure: Designing a Microsoft Windows 2000 Directory Services Infrastructure (MCSE Training Kits)	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Right on for 70-219 exam!	I used this book to pass the 70-219 exam with a great score and finish up my MCSE for Windows 2000. This book rightfully assumes you have already learned the material for and passed the 70-217 Active Directory Administration exam, and therefore will not waste your time on covering redundant material. A thorough expertise in dns is a must also. The study text is only about 330 pages - less than half of the other 70-219 books, but it is to the point and covers the material for the design exam very well. The second chapter gets too heavy into the business analysis end - almost like a graduate level business strategy class! Read it but don't worry about memorizing any of it, it did not prove that helpful to the exam. Just remember that business needs may override what might be the ideal or logical solution. The info in the last chapter about integrating Active Directory with Netware and Exchange was not covered on any of my four case studies either. What you need to know for the exam and is explained very clearly is how to determine the number and structure of  forests, domains/trees, organizational units, sites, dns namespace, and trusts based on the info in the case study. The number and placement of domain controllers, global catalogs, operations masters, and dns servers is also heavily covered. A brief overview of upgrading/migrating to Windows 2000 is covered and necessary for the exam. This is a very organized and logicaly thought out book with a chapter each devoted to forest, domain, organizational unit, and site configuration covering concepts on why you would choose a certain path (domains versus multiple forests or organizational units, etc). While the book does not contain an &quot;example&quot; exam case study, each chapter has excercises that are effective in helping you prepare. Read this book as many times as needed to understand the concepts presented for Active Directory Design and you will be very well prepared for the exam.	2001-10-21
US	52923476	R19XKYEWB6Z4UK	0072123869	751928355	MCSE Windows 2000 Server Study Guide (EXAM 70-215) (Book/CD-ROM)	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Good foundation for 70-215 Server exam	I found the Syngress 70-215 to be a good core study guide for the 70-215 exam. I really like the layout of the book. The authors do a good job at focusing on important key topics. I consider this series a step above the Sybex books (at least the 70-217, and 70-216 which I read) that seem to be more of a step by step/screenshot owners manual. In contrast the Syngress book has many brainteaser example boxes and end of chapter two minute drills that reinforce and clarify what you just read. The two minute drills are also helpful for review as exam day gets closer. Each chapter has plenty of step by step lab type exercises also. The end of chapter questions are usefull for learning, but are not an accurate inidicator of exam readiness nor anything like the real exam questions with few exceptions. The exam I had hit real hard on disk configuration (dynamic versus basic, repairing, performance, and fault tolerance). After so far passing four exams (70-210, 70-215, 70-216, 70-217) I have come to a conclusion about W2K MCSE book reviews. Book reviews seem to be all over the board. I believe this is due to the fact that a lot of people are counting on a book alone to prepare them to pass an exam and when they fail they blame the book. As a NT4.0 MCSE I can tell you the new W2K exams are a LOT tougher. The new tests are not based on a regurgitation of facts but a clever measure of wide based competence of W2K Server technologies. The Syngress book in the preface does a good job explaining this. Microsoft is trying to separate the wannabees from the dedicated and knowledgeable. A MCSE study guide is just one part of the preparation process. Another is &quot;other souces&quot; such as help files, technet, Microsoft website, white papers,and Resource Kit. Lastly of course is a LOT of real hands on W2K Server experience which can be either on a real or practice network and assumed knowledge of basic networking concepts including tcp/ip. I feel no study guide can cover 100% of what is going to be covered on an exam (maybe 85% to 90%) after all the Resource Kit is 7000 pages long! I do feel though that the Sygress 70-215 book does its part as a great core study guide.	2001-09-23
US	52923476	R2IV86R9QXMFQU	078212948X	490127026	MCSE: Windows Directory Services Administration Study Guide (with CD-ROM)	Books	4	4	5	N	N	It has most of what you need to know	The Sybex book for 70-217 is pretty decent for a core study book. I passed the exam with a 906, but I used more than a few other resources. I would say 90% of what is covered in the exam is in this book and I found it to be mostly accurate. However I would have like to seen more &quot;real life&quot; ala Mark Minasi style info in the text. 80% of the book was mostly screen shots and step by step exercises in how to accomplish various important tasks, which is fine and necessary. Even though most everything you need to know is here it would have been better to put more emphasis on critical topics to help in the learning process instead of reading like a manual for a lawn mower at times. I used the Syngress book for 70-216 and found the end of chapter highlights to be very helpful - it would be nice to see this in the Sybex book. It is important to know how to use ntdsutil.exe for file maintenance and I did not find this covered in the book. A more thorough explanation of delegating group policy control on new, existing, and links is also needed. The end of chapter questions have improved, but with few exceptions still are not comparable to what is on the actual exam. I found that the Sybex 70-217 book in combination with Exam Cram for 70-217 make a very good combo. Exam Cram mostly filled in the few areas that the Sybex book was lacking. However I highly recommend as usual using the Microsoft website to research further the main 70-217 topics - active directory, dns, ris, and gpo. As always a practice network is a must to go along with any study guide for the MCSE exams. Criticisms aside I think that the Sybex 70-217 2nd edition is a worthwhile read.	2001-09-11
US	52923476	R1M5Z6KCTU26PH	0072123834	350531145	MCSE Windows 2000 Network Administration Study Guide (Exam 70-216) (Book/CD-ROM)	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Good core study guide!	This Syngess book was my core study guide and it covered about 90% of the topics on the exam which I passes with an 840. Unfortunatley no one book will cover everything except possibly for the 7000 page Server Resource Kit. I found it to be very accurate compared to the Sybex 70-216 2nd edition book. The core topics are covered very well - dns, wins, dhcp, ip addressing, nat/ics, vpn, ipsec, and rras. Certificate Services could have been more thorough and a more in depth explanation on cidr. The  exam tips and two minute drills were very helpul in hammering home the important points and great for final study review. The overall layout of the book was excellent. The end of chapter questions for the most part were nothing like the real exam, so do not count on them to gauge your rediness for the real exam, but to be fair I have not found any book that has realistic exam type questions - the Sybex 70-216 2nd edition is close though. This Syngress book along with LOTS of hands on practice on a home network lab will help prepare you well for the exam. You will NOT be able to pass this exam by ANY book alone. I also recommend extensive use of the onboard help that comes with Windows 2000 - it is a wonderful resource. Also searching the Microsoft website for related articles (dns, dhcp, wins, rras, etc) for further study will serve you well. The Microsoft Readiness Reviews are a good companion practice exams that are similar to the real exam questions. The Syngress 70-216 book is a good choice for your main study guide.	2001-08-31
US	52923476	R1SA8ZKFLO7IK4	0764507117	855860468	MCSE Windows 2000 Network Infrastructure For Dummies	Books	4	1	1	N	N	A great review book for 70-216.	To start with I have not taken the 70-240 test yet so it is hard for me to comment on exactly how this book will prepare one for the exam. This is my first ever Dummies book and I am impressed for the most part. However I have a hard time believing this book by itself will prepare you for the exam. To be fair the author says you will also nee a LOT of hands on experience and other references including such as Tech Net and Resource Kits (a book I believe). The good news is that this book is NOT for dummies. It is very well written in an enjoyable style by a person who obviuosly knows his stuff. I have read Mastering Windows 2000 Server 3rd edition by Mark Minasi (very highly recommended) and the Syngress 70-216 book before this Dummies book by Glenn Weadcock. Glen does an excellent job on taking out the fluff and presenting the important stuff in an articulate, well organized, understable manner. I found the first seven chapters (dns,dhcp,wins,rras) particularly excellent. He has one of the best explanations on rras policy implementation that I have seen. I thought the chapter on routing was a little bit light on the differences between rip and ospf. The chapter on nat/ics was excellent except for little detail on how to map services/applications/ports/addresses to individual computers using these services. The chapter on ipsec was a pretty decent explanation on what can be a complex topic and the chapter on certificates was a great explanation of public key infrastructure and how Windows 2000 uses it with efs, the various types of certificate authorities and how to issue/view/revoke certificates. Interesting though is that there was no instuction on subnetting, supernetting, or cidr in the book? I think for sure you need to be well versed on that for the exam! Also I did not see a good explaination of the host name resolution process which is crucial to pass the exam and troubleshoot networking problems. The end of chapter questions were so so, while the 50 questionend of book practice exam more challenging. Now the bad news - the enclosed cd rom has practice questions and an assesment exam. Well the I give the assesment exam a big ZERO! It generated a 80 question assesment exam and about ten questions did not even generate and one question repeated about 5 times. Plus the questions were mostly the &quot;what tab do you use to do this&quot; nonsense that is not going to help you with the real exam - I guess this is why Trancenders is so popular! Even with those gripes I still thought this book was worth my while to read as an additional study guide and is a bargain for the price.	2001-07-20
US	52923476	R1T0ERA360E920	1565927133	117367542	Windows 2000 Administration in a Nutshell: A Desktop Quick Reference (In a Nutshell (O'Reilly))	Books	5	7	8	N	Y	Great mini manual!	Even though it is over 700 pages I call it mini because of the complexity of Windows 2000, and that the Microsoft reference set is over 7000 pages! First off this is NOT a book for beginners and the author states that on the first page - it is intended for NT experienced people as a quick reference for Windows 2000 networking. No OSI model explaination here. Depending on how much time and depth you want to spend learning Windows 2000, you might first want to pick up Mark Minasis' Mastering Windows 2000 Server 3RD edition which I highly recommend. Active Directory and dns are a big deal in Windows 2000, which takes some time to master and calls for very detailed explainations and examples. However Windows 2000 Administration IN A Nutshell is another winner from O'Reilly. The layout of the book is unique in that instead of a bunch of topic chapters it is broken down into segments on concepts, tasks, consoles, utilities, and commands. Each chapter is conveniently indexed by alphabetical highlighting of subjects to find what you need fast. Page 354 under F for example - folder redirection, about one page on how to do it. No fluff here - just the facts and a lots of them. There is a lot of redundancy here which may bug some people, but this is not a training manual though I consider this book an excellent read for upgrade MCSE studies. There are a LOT of helpful tables, charts, and &quot;boxed&quot; highlights of important topics (such as the one on page 151 &quot;Using Universal Groups&quot;). The author has a section called notes after most topics that are answers to a lot of questions one might have after reading it - the section on disks has 28 such notes, dynamic disks are new to us NT folks and I found them vey helpful. The quick start section has five pages of charts listing Windows NT tools and then the Windows 2000 couterpart and how to access it. There is a full 124 page chapter of administering Windows 2000 from the command line in an alphabetical list! Overall I find the writing style of the author very articulate, non confusing, and enjoyable considering it is a quick reference. Mitch sprinkes enough humor in the text to keep it from becoming tearfully dry. On page 143 he says &quot;The Resource Kit is expected to swell to a staggering 15,000 pages - unless legal action by Greenpeace blocks it.&quot; The author obviously knows his stuff on Windows 2000. Windows 2000 Administration In A Nutshell is a great book that will prove very handy to many people using Windows 2000.	2001-06-06
US	52923476	R3POBNISZGMQSK	0782127746	608964175	Mastering Windows 2000 Server	Books	5	21	21	N	N	Great Windows 2000 Server primer !	Mark Minasi's book is a great all-in-one primer for learning Windows 2000. I recently received my MCSE for NT4.0 and wanted to learn Windows 2000 Server. I obtained the evaluation copy of Windows 2000 Advanced Server forn Microsoft to install on my home network. I had no documentation for it and bought a copy of Mastering Windows 2000 Server to get me up to speed. Mark's book got me going in no time flat. Windows 2000 is a WHOLE lot different than NT4.0 in many ways. Chapter 1 goes through what Microsoft was trying to achieve and what is new. Active Directory of course is the biggest change. Mark explains it very well from the point of view of a beginner and a experienced NT4.0 user in chapter 2. Other major changes well explained in the book are plug and play, dynamic dns, distributed file system, disk quotas, remote installation services, cleint side caching, group policy objects, encryped file system, disk mounting, software installation, and Kerberos authentication to name a few! Mark's writing style is very enjoyable - not boring like a lot of technical books. He does not hesitate to be critical of Windows 2000 where it deserves it. He goes into good depth on TCP/IP with two substantial chapters. Windows 2000 counts heavily on dns which is dynamic and integrated with Active Directory. In native mode (all Windows 2000) you do not need wins or netbios! The book does a good job of pointing out what can and can't be done in native versus mixed mode. Organizational units and group policies are well explained which are big part of Active Directory and a very important concept of Windows 2000. Chapter 4 was especially enjoyable as Mark started off asking Where Are They Now! - referring to where the heck did they move the Network Contol Panel, etc. Us NT4.0 users will find that chapter very helpful as it explains how to do routine NT4.0 tasks in Windows 2000 including the new Microsoft Management Console (mmc). Security has been beefed up big time in Windows 2000. In various chapters this is well covered explaining Kerberos, encrypted file system, and group policy security settings. Mark also explains how to use Windows 98/95 and NT4.0 clients in a Windows 2000 Network. Chapter 20 on tuning and monitoring has a great overview of the network browsing system (you know - master browsers and browse lists) that is helpful in determining  why network neighborhood acts as it does. Mark also passes along a lot of helpful tips that he has learned in his experience with Windows 2000 that you probably will not find in Microsoft Press books.As much as I like the book it certainly is not and did not intend to be all encompassing of Windows 2000. The Microsoft Server Resource kit is over 7000 pages! However Mark's book is packed with 1500 pages of most useful info and may be all the majority of Windows 2000 Server users ever need. There are a lot of books that focus on individual topics of Windows 2000. For instance the O'reilly book on Active directory is great. You also might want to get a book focusing on Windows 2000 security - there is just so much more than in NT4.0 with Kerberos, EFS, L2TP, IPSEC, registry settings, and packet filtering . However Mark Minasi's Mastering Windows 2000 Server is always the first book I grab and is kept in arms reach.	2001-02-11
US	52923476	R15FIB1I9SVSRG	0130112518	895317634	MCSE: Internetworking with Microsoft TCP/IP on Microsoft Windows NT 4.0	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Not just for the exam! Excellent	This book does an excellent job explaining tcp/ip, not just for the test but for real life use and reference also. It is well written in that there is little fluff - just the important stuff explained in a very articulate manner. There are a lot of helpful diagrams and follow along Windows NT configuration screens. It has a great explanation of ip addressing and subnetting (though I only had one easy exam question on that). All the other important topics were well explained - utilities, netbios and host name resolution, hosts and lmhosts, wins, dns, dhcp, snmp, routing, tcp/ip printing, routing, and one of the best explainations I have ever read on the browser service in a routed network. Even though the tcp/ip exam is retiring soon I suggest this book to all involved in learning networking with NT, plus I understand that Microsoft considers tcp/ip so important that they are actually merging it into the curriculum for MCSE NT 2000 - therefore it is really not being retired as an outdated subject and will be important to those seeking that certification. One minor complaint is that it barely mentioned RAS. I had two questions on the exam about RAS relating to routing and pptp. I would suggest reading a bit more in depth on RAS and VPN before the exam. The review questions at the end of each chapter are pretty good at challenging you on important contnet of the chapter. However as always I recommend a second book to study for any exam. I supplemented this book with Exam Cram for TCP/IP which was also excellent and had a whole lot of practice questions along with 20 plus scenario questions very similar to what you would see on the actual exam. It is also best to learn this topic on a practice network at home if possible. There is no substitute to actually configuring a dhcp, dns, or wins server yourself. The material you need to learn is all here, but it is important not to just understand it but to know it. A typical exam question would be along the lines of - you areon a subnetted network with routers and you can ping a workstation on a remote network using its' ip address but you can't see it in network neighborhood or maybe you can't connect to it using its' host name via ftp - why? There were quite a few questions on the exam about what utlity to use for a particular task - ping, nbtstat, netstat, tracert, arp, rsh, lpq, lpr, lpd, etc. Great book and I really enjoyed reading it and oh yeah I passed the test!	2000-10-14
US	52923476	R2BSTQDXX43NDA	1576106772	565133452	MCSE TCP/IP Exam Cram 3E (Exam: 70-059)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Well worth the read! Lots of practice exam questions too.	This Exam Cram is well worth the money. I would not recommend it as the only book for study unless you are already very familiar with tcp/ip. It had the jist of what was important to know for the exam in a no fluff just the facts presentation. This is the kind of book that I read once, then go back and highlight lines that I  feel are critically important to learn and keep studying from there. This is the kind of book to take everywhere with you - going to the dentist, great you can bone up on dhcp and dns while waiting for your turn in the chair. The book is probably worth the price for the practice exam questions alone. There are two sixty question practice exams in the back of the book that each have an explantion of why a particular answer is right and the others are wrong. When you really feel you know tcp/ip then try out the thirty scenario questions at the back of the book - they will really challenge what you have learned and are very similar to what is on the exam. Exam Cram TCP/IP is a great supplemental study guide for an important topic.	2000-10-14
US	52923476	RPUX3LV2K7DYM	0672313391	27906636	Sams Teach Yourself MCSE Windows 98 in 14 Days	Books	5	2	2	N	Y	Excellent resource for exam or power users	The Windows 98 exam is very tough with lots of simulation and scenario  questions. Sams book on MCSE Windows 98 is an excellent book to learn the  more advanced topics needed for the exam. I though I knew a lot about  Windows 98 after using it for a few years until I read this book. The exam  is heavy on using Windows 98 as a client in a Windows NT4.0 or Novell  domain. You must learn everything in the network properties dialog box to  pass the exam and the book does a good job on this with lots of diagrams  and hands on exercises. Other important topics covered well are TCP/IP  setup including DHCP &amp; WINS, file systems, installing, boot sequence,  dial up networking, registry, printer installing/control, hardware and user  profiles, network neighborhood, browser functions (using netbios  broadcasts), and system policies. Everthing you need to pass is in this  book, however for an extra margin of safety I recommend investing in Exam  Cram also. The test questions in Sams book are helpful, but the ones in  Exam Cram do a better job of telling if you know your stuff enough to take  the exam. The writing style of the author is enjoyable with lots of  important points boxed off for emphasis and easy review later. I also  recommend the book to anyone who just wants to learn a lot more about  advanced topics of Windows 98.	2000-09-15
US	52923476	RQP3JDGIMWR4F	1576102890	169653334	MCSE Windows 98 Exam Cram (Exam: 70-098)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Great Windows 98 learning tool !	The Windows 98 exam is one of the toughest - it proved that way for me out  of the four MCP exams I have taken so far. Don't think you know Windows 98  for the exam just because you have been using it for years and know how to  use the contol panel. The Exam goes heavy into the networking end of using  Windows 98, particularly as a client in an Windows NT4.0 or Novell domain.  There is lots on the test having to do with Novell integration, TCP/IP  configuration and troubleshooting, file utilities, user and hardware  profiles, the registry, dial up networking, troubleshooting, boot sequence,  system policies, mutimedia capablilities, and security/sharing. The exam  has lots of scenario and simulation problems. Exam Cram is a great book to  use as a supplement to a full study guide - I used Sam's Teach Yourself  MCSE Windows 98 in 14 Days and was very happy with it. A lot of hands on  using your computer with Windows 98 to try doing things as you learn them  is very helpful. Even though you might not be able to use Windows 98 on a  network you can still install and configure most everything you need to do  to pass the exam. Exam Cram will help reinforce what you have learned and  if you feel unsure about an area of study then you can refer to your main  study guide to bone up on that area. The book has a very good focus of what  is important to learn for the exam. Exam Cram also has a couple of hundred  practice questions - some at the end of each chapter and a 59 question  practice exam at the end. The practice exam is tough and the answer section  is done in such a way as to explain why a particluar answer is right and  why the others are wrong, which will help you learn. I also recommend the  book to anyone who just wants to learn the full capablilies of Windows 98.  I read a few general purpose Windows 98 books that did not cover ANY of the  more advanced topics that you will find in a MCSE type book. Exam Cram MCSE  Windows 98 is well worth the money!	2000-09-15
US	52923476	R1O9T43FN84VFU	1565927214	866352508	MCSE: The Core Exams in a Nutshell (In a Nutshell (O'Reilly))	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Incredible amount info in such a little book!	I am mostly reiterating what others say here. This is a GREAT exam review book, especially considering the small size and price. It helped me pass 3  exams so far - Workstation, Server, and Enterprise. I used it along with  Alan Carter's book and my in house network lab. It will reinforce what you  know and show you what you need to bone up on in the more in depth books.  The test questions are a lttle on the easy side but defineatley help you  progress in the learning process and there a lot of them - 80 for each exam  section. There are a lot of helpful summary tables of important information  you need to know. This is a great book to take to work or the in-laws for  quick study sessions. Don't let the size fool you - this book is packed  with very helpful information.	2000-09-14
US	52923476	RFO2DO30V1E5L	0764530879	310573125	Windows NT? 4.0 MCSE Study Guide (MCSE Certification)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Thank you Alan!	Alan Carter's book is a great learning tool and value. It really makes  sense to put the three core NT 4.0 topics in a single book for an efficient  and economical learning experience. I originally bought the book just to  learn Workstation, but after passing the exam I realized that I had read  80% of the book and that the rest of the chapters would not take that long  to learn. This book covers 98% of what you need to know to pass the three  tests. I passed the three tests with high scores in just a few months and I  had very little experience to start out. The topics are covered in a very  thorough manner yet not too technical to scare a beginner. The book does  not have all the practice tests that people want these days, but the Exam  Cram series will do such and are excellent compliments to this book. You  really do not need any more. In my experience Workstation and Server were  covered 100% in Alan's book. Enterprise was not quite 100%, but Exam Cram  covered anyhting else I came across on the test (a question on pulse was on  the test). The sections on trusts, domains, global groups, and local groups  were very understandable and are a very important part of the enterprise  exam. The Key Point Summary at the end of each chapter is an excellent test  review item, and the Instant Assesment will let you know if you know the  material as well as you need to for the exam. What this book lacks as far  as a practice exam it more than makes up for with the excellent and  numerous Hands-on Lab Excercises. They may look long, but they really teach  you hands on experience. It is important to have a practice lab with at  least two computers on a network and with one having NT4.0 Workstation  installed and the other having NT4.0 Server installed to make the most of  this book or any study system if you really want to learn NT4.0 . You can  obtain evaluation versions of these NOS from Microsoft for very little  money, and you can get a second computer used for a couple hundred bucks.  The progression of topics in this book makes perfect sense unlike some  other books that tend to jump around and make assumptions of what you know.  I may sell or give away most of my other computer books but not Alan's !	2000-09-14
US	52923476	RTGX8NXEK8V7H	1576106195	846117803	MCSE NT Server 4 in the Enterprise Exam Cram, Third Edition (Exam: 70-068)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Great for exam prep	Exam Cram for the Enterprise test does what it is supposed to do well.  This book alone will not be enough for most of us to pass the exam. I used  Alan Carter's book as my main study vehicle along with my in house network  lab. It covered some important points that were not in Alan's book such as  pusle settings. There is little fluff in this book and a lot of  highlightable material. It did a great job on domains, trusts, global  groups, and local groups which are of prime importance in the exam. For me  the book was worth the price alone for the two sets of practice exams and  the set of scenario questions that really let you know if you know the  material or not. A great book to take to work for quick reviews.	2000-09-14
US	52923476	R2Q3T98GSWBU53	1576104125	920444420	Network+ Exam Prep	Books	5	13	13	N	Y	Did it for me!	I had lots of hardware experience over the years and wanted to learn  networking. I bought this book because of the reviews and was not  disapointed. To be honest though I was a bit overwhelmed by everything  covered after the first read. So I bought and read the Sybex Network+ book  which was more for absolute beginners (though not near as thorough) like me  and then went back to Exam Prep. Exam Prep on the second read was a  pleasure. You will really learn the OSI model after reading this book. I  finally know what a bridge, router, and mac address are and how they work.  Network protocols like TCP/IP, IPX/SPX, and Netbui are no longer a mystery.  The section on TCP/IP (including DNS, DHCP, WINS,and addressing) is  outstanding and the explanation of subnetting is very understandable.  TCP/IP and the TCP/IP utilities (ping, tracert, ipconfig, etc.) are  important to know and will help you a lot if you go the MCSE route or any  career in networking. It really helps to have an in house network lab to do  the hands on projects, but I was able to pass with a 94% just having a  single computer. This is the premeir Network+ book and I may sell or give  away my other books but this one and Alan Carter's MCSE book will always be  within arms reach for me.	2000-09-14
