US	52928593	R2UGXXDCXX0XW8	037328912X	291979244	Birdie	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Bride abandoned in a den of thieves returns to her husband.	Birdie has always had to struggle to survive, ever since the death of her gently-bred mother left her alone in the world and easy prey for the dark side of society. <br /> <br />When she was twelve, she was fortunate enough to be injured by a carriage whose owner, a wealthy marquis, brought her to recuperate in his Irish country home, and eventually grew fond of her and treated her as a daughter. <br /> <br />When Birdie was 16, her benefactor's handsome young heir, Templeton, came to announce his forthcoming marriage to a society beauty, but was told that unless he married Birdie immediately, he would lose all of his inheritance except the title and a small amount of entailed property. Faced with the prospect of becoming a penniless marquis, Temple resentfully agreed to marry the \\"slum rat\\" his uncle had rescued. <br /> <br />Birdie has always dreamed of living the life of a lady as she knew she deserved by birth, but the prospect of a reluctant groom did not delight her. When Templeton finally agreed to give the marriage a fair chance, she agreed, and the marriage was accomplished. <br /> <br />Templeton found himself delighted with his beautiful young bride, and became anxious to show her off in London. Unfortunately, on the way back, their carriage was overtaken by thieves and they were taken hostage. Templeton was seriously injured, and the thieves threatened to finish him off if Birdie did not participate in their evil deeds. When Temple finally recovered, he saw that his wife seemed to be a willing participant in the gang, and fed by the malignant lies from one of the female gang members, he became disillusioned and escaped when he found the opportunity, abandoning her to the evil gang, who told her they had killed him. <br /> <br />Birdie was again required to struggle to survive, through months of beatings and sexual assaults and a pregnancy that resulted in twins who turned out to be the image of her husband. After two years, she was rescued by a friend ofher noble benefactor, and set off to London to claim her son's title. <br /> <br />Lo and behold, one of the first people she encountered was her husband, who was not only alive and well, but who had been living it up in London all the while that she had been suffering in captivity. And not only that, but HE was the one who was angry at HER! <br /> <br />At this point, Birdie decided NOT to tell him the children were his, because he was threatening to turn her loose in the street, and she was afraid if he saw the children, he would take them away from her. <br /> <br />But for some reason, Templeton agreed to let her live in the same house and treat her nominally as his wife. And although he was angry and jealous that she had been intimate with other men--not that he really wanted to know about it--he found that he wanted her to be his wife in truth once again. <br /> <br />Although a few unpleasant details about Birdie's life with Irish thieves are revealed, it bothers me that Templeton never really finds out what manner of evil treatment Birdie suffered for the two years that he abandoned her. And she forgives him far too easily, in my opinion. <br /> <br />Some of these misunderstandings can be explained away by the fact that the hero and heroine were barely acquainted when the tragedy occurred and didn't have the trust that one would expect in a pair of lovers. But I still think Templeton's abandonment was too easily pardoned by them both. <br /> <br />In spite of the flaws, I found myself engrossed in the sheer emotional intensity of the story, and for that I give it a four-star rating.	2005-02-16
US	52928593	R1KM26DFY6Z0OU	0060502266	882567605	A Game of Scandal	Books	4	10	10	N	Y	Tragedy and well-meaning relatives separate two young lovers	After being discovered in a compromising situation, Lilith was hustled off to her aunt in Italy, where she eventually became accustomed to the fact that not only did her lover not intend to make her an honest woman, but that she would never be able to contract a respectable marriage with any honorable man.<br />So after her aunt's death, Lilith decides to defy society's rules and use her inheritance to run a gambling establishment. This is where she is finally confronted with her former lover, Gabriel, now an earl who is attempting to persuade Parliament to outlaw gambling.<br />As much as they are now on entirely opposite sides, both Gabriel and Lilith discover that the feelings they had for each other are as strong as ever, in spite of the passing of ten years and much bitterness on both sides. But Lilith's reputation--certainly not improved by her position as mistress of a gaming establishment--has gone too far for her ever to be accepted as an earl's wife, and Gabriel will have her no other way.<br />As with Ms. Smith's other books, I found myself glued to the pages of this one. Nevertheless, I don't give it a five-star rating because I was NOT impressed with Gabriel's &quot;excuses&quot; for allowing Lilith to bear the blame and the scandal for their affair. In a time when young women had little or no control over their lives, he was a young man who could have made it right. The fact that he considered his father's tragedy to be more important than the woman he loved rather diminished his character, in my opinion. How HE could have nursed any bitterness at all toward HER was simply incredible to me. Nor did I care for the casual way it was suggested that Lilith had indulged in affairs with other men in the past, no matter how few.<br />Overall, however, reading this book was a rare pleasure, and I heartily recommend it.	2004-06-16
US	52928593	R7QFFJKZS0KZH	0804119562	267895434	Moonlit	Books	4	4	4	N	Y	Truly moving romance in spite of weak mystery plot	Mrs. Nolan (Nell) is not quite the courtesan she pretends to be. Trevor St. Wulfstan is not quite the wicked viscount he claims to be either. The two of them are incomprehensibly drawn together and bound in a marriage that might not be quite what either really wants, but seems preferable to a life apart.<br />Having been an Emma Jensen fan for some time--I have been enjoying  some of her earlier Regency novels lately--I waited to begin this book until I knew I had time to read it straight through, because her books always keep me turning the pages in eager anticipation of the satisfyingly happy ending. And this book did not disappoint.<br />The only *tiny* criticism I would dare to make would be the weakness of Nell's plot for revenge--I was never completely clear on why this was so important to her in view of subsequent events--and also the assassination plot, that had nothing to do with Trevor's secret activities during the war. I'm not sure that it added anything to the story, since Nell didn't even know about it until it was over.<br />But this book will definitely keep me hungry for others by this author. Keep up the good work!	2004-06-14
US	52928593	R1TTJ9M2HD6X1E	0451208595	606864129	Wedded Bliss	Books	4	20	20	N	Y	An earl desperately needs a mother for his sons.	He doesn't need another wife--he's already had two of those--but he needs someone trustworthy to care for his two neglected sons, and the widowed Mrs.  Henning is ideal. But the situation is that she has made a powerful enemy, and the only way he can protect her is by making her his wife. In a marriage of convenience. And then he takes off for London to resume his diplomatic career and his demanding German princess of a mistress.<br />Alissa, however, is no meek miss to be taken for granted. Having been a true wife and mother before, she is determined to force her new husband to face up to his responsibilities. It isn't long before the neglectful earl comes home to find his beautiful London home invaded by four mischievous boys, their mongrel puppies, and an indignant wife who demands to know why their marriage has not been consummated. He got a mother for his children; on her side, she wants a daughter out of the deal.<br />While not one of the most entertaining stories I've read by Barbara Metzger, the story is full of humorous situations as Alissa and the earl are gradually drawn together in a true marriage that becomes the foundation of a strong family unit. No young miss could have exhibited the kind of determination and backbone that was necessary to accomplish the task. As a penniless widow with two children to provide for, Alissa was ideal for the job.<br />Nevertheless, it doesn't get five stars from me, because I felt the hero was a little too reluctant, at least in the beginning. And I agree with earlier reviewers that the adultery that is hinted at after their marriage tarnishes his character somewhat, even taking into consideration the status of the marriage at the time. Leaving her to go to London (and his mistress) on their wedding night is not something that can be quickly forgiven, especially when it left the heroine open to malicious gossip about the true nature of the marriage.<br />Perhaps it's because I'm used to the shorter Regency format, butit seems to me that this book would have been more effective with about 50 fewer pages. As it is, there seem to be too many scenes that don't necessarily advance the plot.<br />All in all, however, I find the time spent reading this book to be well spent. You won't regret it!	2004-06-12
US	52928593	R22F3BWM7RAHDA	082177591X	548536256	Courting Trouble (Zebra Regency Romance)	Books	4	1	1	N	Y	The duke falls in love with a lady who wants to be a rake!	As in her previous book, Nonnie St. George has created a hero who is at the same time supremely arrogant and devastatingly lovable. He is the hero that all young girls dream of--handsome, self-assured, attentive, willing to commit. . . and a duke, to boot! Most girls (especially if they were Cit's daughters) would fall at his feet; clearly that's what he expects her to do.<br />But Arabella isn't most girls. She's a Cit with virtually no social position, but she's got unusual beauty and her father is one of the richest men in England and she expects to shop around a bit before committing herself. Well, a handsome duke is a promising start, but how does she know if her feelings are true if she's never given a chance to get to know other men?<br />This book is a breath of fresh air from other Regencies I have read lately. Oh, it's not perfect (and not as good as the previous one), and I have to agree that it's not terribly realistic. The dialogue doesn't match the period, and there seems to be far too little concern about her lack of social status, especially on the part of the duke's mother. And it's FAR too long; about 40-50 pages could have easily been eliminated with no   ill-effects.<br />But I have to say it was a pleasure to find a book where the hero finds himself trying to persuade the heroine that she loves him all the way through the book. No reluctant hero here!<br />Truly a charming story!	2004-06-05
US	52928593	R3FETLY8DSHQM1	0821775901	98876462	The Ideal Bride (Zebra Regency Romance)	Books	5	4	5	N	Y	A great new talent has arrived!	I used to read every Regency that came out; however, the rapidly decreasing quality of new books in this genre has made me more selective in recent years. My favorites have always been the lighthearted romps such as those penned by Barbara Metzger. Nonnie St. George exhibits the same type of comedic talent here. Frankly, I was so engrossed in laughing my way through the book that I didn't even notice the little errors in historical accuracy that normally disrupt my reading pleasure.<br />Normally I wouldn't think much of a hero who is so obviously aware of his good-looking appearance that he expects women to fall all over him and takes offense if they don't. Nor do his frequent references to the heroine's flat chest and her other inadequacies make him a likable character. In the beginning, his friend the Duke seems a much a better potential hero.<br />But even at his first meeting with &quot;Saint Nola,&quot; the earl's daughter who has dedicted herself to helping the war widows, Gabriel undergoes a curious sort of transformation that everyone sees except him (and perhaps Nola herself). Even as he emphatically denies that she could ever be a candidate for the &quot;ideal bride&quot; he seeks, he finds himself thinking about her constantly. . . and enjoying her company far too well.<br />Is it because she is the first woman who shown no interest in attracting him? Or because she proves herself to be a highly capable woman and one who is sincerely committed to helping the needy? Or is it because his mother, his best friend, her brother and two aunts, the servants, his tenants and business partners--and the entire ton, it turns out--are conspiring to throw them together for a walk down the aisle.<br />Even after he finally admits to himself that he loves Nola and wants to marry her, he tries to find a way to &quot;save face.&quot; The whole world knows about his requirements for his &quot;ideal bride.&quot; If he marries Nola, who is practically the antithesis, he would be a laughingstock among the ton.  So he devises a way to &quot;compromise&quot; Nola into marriage. No one would ridicule him for doing the honorable thing, after all.<br />When that fails, and his mother begins rounding up potential husbands for Nola, Gabriel's next move is to propose to Nola and ask her to keep it quiet for a month or so until the ton becomes obsessed by some other scandal. But Nola refuses his offer, even after he confesses his love for her (which should have come BEFORE the proposal of marriage). Even after he finally agrees to lease her the warehouse she wants for her war widows bazaar.<br />Nola, you see, already loves him--she did notice his handsome appearance after all--but she is well aware that she has been practically pushed into his arms by all the well-meaning matchmakers, and she knows that she lacks the qualifications for the &quot;ideal bride&quot; he was seeking. Marrying her would just make them both unhappy.<br />It becomes a matter of Gabriel having to choose between his pride and a life with the woman he loves, and realizes that there is really only one choice to be made.<br />At that point, the transformation from arrogant jerk to romantic hero is complete, and the reader is left with the feeling that all is right in the world and that every minute spent reading this book was time well spent.	2004-05-15
US	52928593	R3RUC82KBZGKB6	0312978405	691874366	Love Lessons	Books	5	4	4	N	Y	Steamy romance for mature readers only!	Yes, I would say this book ranks right up there with any of Susan Johnson's in the arena of steamy sex. And perhaps the heroine's behavior seems a bit out of place in this time period. However, Holt's characters have hidden feelings and vulnerabilities that somehow make their actions believable.<br />The biggest hurdle to get over is how Abigail Weston is so quickly converted from a prudish spinster to a wanton wench. Still waters run deep, they say. A second sense tells her that James Stevens is more than the libertine he claims to be. And while she is eager for the physical love he offers, she yearns to  help him face the insecurities that render him incapable of real love.<br />In order to do this, however, she must be willing to acknowledge her relationship with him to the world--not an easy thing to do when he has made it clear that he will not commit himself to her in any way. What would she do when (if) he cast her off after she had been rejected by her family and all of society for her wanton behavior? She instinctively knows he loves her, but will their love be enough to overshadow the darkness in his soul? In some ways, jumping off a cliff would be easier!<br />I wasn't crazy about his father Edward's behavior, and his mother disappointed me too at times, but one doesn't get to pick one's relatives, and the ones we end up with aren't always ideal either. <br />But whatever happened to his brother Michael? I'll have to check out some of Holt's newer titles.	2004-01-28
US	52928593	R2THEVK9UJ6R1E	051513225X	400114913	Pendragon	Books	4	5	6	N	Y	Another Sherbrooke bites the dust. . .	Okay, I'll admit being a Catherine Coulter fan from way back, and I truly did enjoy reuniting with Sherbrooke characters from previous books, which I do remember amazingly well considering how many books I have read since that I don't remember at all.<br />Frankly, I found myself alternately laughing and crying my way through this book. I cried because I thought Meggie's crush on her &quot;almost-cousin&quot; went on far too long and caused much pain to the husband who loved her and deserved better. I laughed when the cook sang while serving nutty buns, the butler defined everyone's worth based on their suitability to walk on his back, and the new bride drowned her sorrows with the innkeeper's wife after a less than satisfactory wedding night. The two dowager countesses, although mean-spirited at times, made their contributions to the hilarity as well.<br />Did I ever want to know so much about cat racing? Probably not, but the images of cats leaping to the finish line with a crowd of Sherbrookes and Malcombes and their households cheering them on provoked many a chuckle even after the book was finished.<br />Meggie is a worthy Sherbrooke heroine, feisty and loyal and determined to the end. What man wouldn't fall in love with her? How Thomas turns out to be such a deserving Sherbrooke consort, considering his upbringing, remains a mystery.<br />The murder mystery plot at the end seemed a bit incongruous in comparison with the lighthearted crazy tone of the novel. I think the book would have turned out much better had the murderer remained a comical character bent on making mischief between the two dowager countesses. And perhaps that would have left room for a bit more romance between Meggie and Thomas.<br />Regarding the comments of a previous reviewer that Ms. Coulter is sensitive to criticism: <br />Give her a break. She's human and no one likes to hear negative comments, especially not about something in which one has invested much time, effort, and emotion. I'mguessing that, in retrospect, she regrets sending that message.<br />At the same time, I think it's important to hear what your readers are saying. As much as I hate to admit it, publishing is a business, and any business that ignores the needs and desires of their clientele will not flourish. When I review a seriously flawed book, I do so because I hope what I say can be used to help the author and/or editors to avoid these problems in the future, not because I want to hurt anyone's feelings.<br />Frankly, it's discouraging to find the same silly mistakes over and over again. What are editors for, anyway? I often get the impression that publishing houses think all romance editors are equal, and don't make any effort to seek out personnel who are truly knowledgeable about historical fiction. Surely a halfway decent editor would make an effort to correct some of the more obvious errors in these books.<br />As I keep saying to my students: MAKING mistakes can be positive thing if you have the courage and initiative to LEARN from them. Ignoring them is just plain stupid.	2004-01-18
US	52928593	R1AHNJ3DTVJK6K	0843949872	74257754	Miss Woodley's Experiment	Books	5	2	2	N	Y	A delightful madcap romp from beginning to end.	Katherine Greyle is fast becoming one of my favorite authors. \\"Major Wycliff's Campaign\\" persuaded me to hunt down Ms. Greyle's other books, none of which have disappointed me thus far.<br />Geoffrey has dedicated himself to rebuilding the family fortunes that were gambled away by his late father. It's the only way he can keep his family out of debtor's prison. He is well on his way to doing so when he learns that his sister Sophia--the victim of \\"Major Wycliff's Campaign\\"--has suddenly married, in spite of her determination never to do so. Geoffrey feels honor-bound to repay her dowry, which he used to finance his estate expenses. And the only way he can do so is to marry an heiress.<br />At the same time, he has met up with Caroline Woodley, a self-acknowledged bluestocking who is conducting research on \\"human carnal relations\\". At the moment her research is limited to kisses. Her fiancé Harry's kisses evokes only revulsion. Geoffrey's kiss, on the other hand, evokes the tingle she was looking for and more. Geoffrey knows he should stay away from her since she is not the heiress he needs to repair his fortunes, but didn't she say she intended to conduct more of these \\"kissing experiments\\"? How could he stand aside and let her ruin herself? So he ends up following her around to \\"rescue\\" the hopelessly naive Caroline who is certain she can take care of herself. I laughed until I cried when he found Caroline interviewing his former mistress about sexual techniques!<br />Unfortunately, Geoffrey goes on far too long denying his feelings for Caroline and refusing to marry her because he feels he must repay his sister's dowry--this in spite of the fact that she and her husband insist they don't want it. There is really no pressing danger of debtor's prison, except in Geoffrey's stubborn mind. By the time he realizes that nothing is more important than Caroline, it is almost too late.<br />The ending IS a little rushed, but I like the fact that Greyle did NOT rely on a magic solution to this couple's financial problems. There is no sudden inheritance or a buried treasure to solve their problems. Both couples--this one and the one from the previous book--have their work cut out for them to keep food on the table. But one is left with the certainty that their love will give them the strength they need to overcome their problems.	2004-01-10
US	52928593	R38OPSZ25UZZCJ	0373290888	500418363	A Gentleman of Substance (Harlequin Historical Series, No. 488)	Books	5	18	19	N	Y	A hero weds a woman pregnant with his dead brother's child	Drake has no intention of siring his own heir, so when he discovers his younger brother impregnated the local vicar's daughter before getting killed in battle, he offers to solve both of their problems by marrying her and legitimizing her child.<br />Lucy had every intention of remaining faithful to her lover's memory. She certainly did not expect to feel affection for her dark, rather dour, husband, in spite of his chivalrous behavior in taking responsibility for her and her child. But as time passes and she discovers her husband's true character, a more mature Lucy realizes that her feelings for his brother were little more than a schoolgirl crush compared to her deep love for Drake.<br />But Drake made it clear from the start that their marriage would be in name only. Lucy must endeavor to keep her love for her husband hidden, in accordance with the bargain they made prior to marrying.<br />Throw in a few villains determined to break up the marriage, and you end up with a truly gripping romance, guaranteed to elicit tears and raw emotion.<br />I don't know why it's taken me so long to read this book, which has been at the bottom of my huge &quot;to be read&quot; pile for several years. Needless to say, I was so engrossed in this one that I read the other Deborah Hale book in the pile, with equally happy results. I would definitely consider purchasing any other books by this author. . . after I whittle the pile down a bit more, that is.<br />Deborah Hale is definitely a name to remember!	2003-12-20
US	52928593	R13129IP69WMC6	0373290527	368290408	My Lord Protector	Books	5	6	6	N	Y	A truly great May-December romance!	Edmund's only intention in marrying Julianna is to save her from her evil stepbrother after her father's unexpected death. He is well aware that she is promised to his nephew Crispin, who is away on a long sea voyage. Besides, he is twenty years her senior, in poor health, and a confirmed bachelor. The idea is to keep the marriage unconsummated and have it annulled upon Crispin's return.<br />But after Julianna is instrumental in saving his life through her vigilant nursing during a life-threatening illness, he begins to have feelings that are NOT strictly avuncular. But how can he betray his beloved nephew by stealing his fiancée?<br />Julianna regrets her attraction to her husband because of her pledge to marry Crispin and because she knows her husband does not return her feelings. But there are times when she senses the sexual attraction between them. . . or is she imagining it? Even so, where does Crispin fit into all of this?<br />Will the two of them be able to overcome their mutual guilt to admit their feelings and fulfill their love?<br />The difference in their ages is 20 years, no more than Jane Eyre and Mr. Rochester. This age difference was not uncommon in 18th century marriages. Frankly, I think vulnerable older heroes can be a welcome change from the younger ones, who have a tendency to flit from one woman to another in the blink of an eye. I'd like to see more older, mature heroes like this because, well, as exciting as it is to imagine being in love with a real Corinthian man-about-town, it's a bit harder to imagine him settling down with just one woman for the rest of his life.<br />In any case, the attraction fairly sizzles between these two conscience-stricken lovers, and I couldn't put the book down. This is an author who knows how to keep the reader's attention riveted.	2003-12-20
US	52928593	R3BARQRCB4M9TO	1880507013	130337876	Huevos verdes con jamón	Books	5	33	34	N	Y	¡Me gusta mucho este libro!	After I had read this book to my nieces and nephews, my nine-year-old nephew picked up \\"Corre, perro, corre\\" by P.D. Eastman and read it all the way through in English, including \\"me gusta,\\" which he had not heard prior to hearing this book. Reading is a great language teacher!<br />I asked the kids why the main character's name is Juan Ramón instead of Sam, and my nephew said immediately, \\"Well, it has to rhyme with jamón, of course.\\"<br />I had purchased this book for my students, but it was obvious I was going to have to get another for my nieces and nephews! At least I have no problem knowing what to get them for birthdays and Christmas gifts! (They certainly don't need any more toys!)	2003-11-29
US	52928593	R23LHXA5YXXFCG	0449222772	97242459	Never Let Me Go (A Regency Romance)	Books	4	17	18	N	N	Something about this book draws you in. . .	What's weird is that I almost never read this kind of book. The only reason I read this one is because it's labeled &quot;Regency,&quot; which it definitely is NOT! If anything, it's a contemporary with a big dollop of supernatural thrown in. And I never read contemporaries anymore.<br />And then to learn that another reader had read this same book--long out of print--about a week before I did and had a similar reaction to it. . . well, there is something rather spooky about it.<br />Belle has come to England to finish writing her book, but soon finds herself engrossed in an unsolved 19th century mystery involving a young girl and her lover. Following the young girl's disappearance, it was presumed that she had been murdered by the lover she spurned, the Earl of Raventhorpe, who immediately thereafter fled the country.<br />When the ghost of Raventhorpe makes himself known to her, Belle finds herself drawn to him, instinctively realizing that he could not have murdered the young Arabella that he loved so much. Determined to clear his name, she sets out to find as much information as she can about the incident.<br />The odd thing is that Belle seems to have some sort of contact with Arabella's ghost as well, because she seems to know things without being told. Indeed, the story she writes seems to come directly from Arabella. . . nobody else could have known the very detailed events that seem to flow automatically from Belle's pen.<br />Even as she finds herself falling deeply in love with Raventhorpe's ghost, she fears that in the end there will be nothing but heartache for her.	2003-08-08
US	52928593	R7LB3Y53C8NJ4	0449204049	135708277	Love Bade Me Welcome	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Excellent Gothic-style historical romance	After the sudden death of her beloved husband, Davinia has no place to go but to her husband's family, to the estate that he had rejected long ago along with many unhappy memories of the past. At first she is welcomed by the family. . . until it is discovered that she is to bear a child, which--if male--will replace her husband's brother as heir of the estate.<br />At that point, Davinia's world becomes a nightmare. Although she is attracted to her husband's younger brother Homer, she suspects that he is courting her only to gain the estate he thought was his before her unexpected pregnancy. Her suspicions are confirmed after someone pushes her down a flight of stairs and causes her to lose her unborn child. When she learns that her husband's death had been caused by poison, she wants nothing more than to get away before Homer discovers that she knows of his treachery and decides that she, too, stands in the way of his inheritance. <br />But the truth is not as clear-cut as Davinia envisions. It turns out that her beloved husband was not who he seemed. And Homer's character just doesn't seem consistent with a ruthless murderer, she thinks, even as she finds herself falling under his spell. Still, who else stood to gain by murdering her husband and child? Davinia knows she must get away from there before it is too late.<br />Although the Gothic/romantic suspense genre is not currently in vogue, I have to say that this is one of the better books I have read recently. I found myself in tears most of the way through it and could not stop reading it until the end. It's such a riveting story that it almost doesn't matter that the author apparently does not realize that in Britain at that time it was illegal for a man to marry his brother's wife (which is, incidentally, the way Henry VIII managed to annul his first marriage to his brother's widow, Catherine of Aragon). Still, Ms. Smith is not the only author to make this mistake, and the rare pleasure I got from reading this book makes me more than willing to forgive her for it.	2003-08-02
US	52928593	R22GCL7AAD1X4	0451187288	908098194	The Gypsy Duchess (Signet Regency Romance)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Moira must hide her Gypsy heritage to protect a child.	She married an aged duke to protect her smuggler father from the hangman's noose. After his death, she devotes herself to protecting her young stepson from the evil viscount who stands to gain a dukedom at his death. How very frustrating that the only man who can help her protect her stepson is the same man who blames her for his younger brother's heartbreak and subsequent death in the war against Napoleon.<br />The Earl of Langley fights his attraction to this beautiful woman, believing, as he does, that she is a cruel seductress. As the two are drawn closer together by their determination to protect the young duke, however, his eyes are opened to her true character, and he decides to make her his mistress. It's only after that suggestion is firmly rejected that he becomes determined to make her his wife.<br />But even after he has resolved the problem of the murderous viscount and discovered her Gypsy heritage, she still refuses to legally become his wife, since she knows that marrying a Gypsy will forever make him persona non grata in London society. How can he prove to her that their love is all that matters?<br />This book had me riveted to the pages to the end, and the only reason I don't give it five stars is that I was a tiny bit disappointed in Moira's stubborn determination to refuse Devon \\"for his own good\\" long after he had proven his love for her. I mean, she was willing to hide her Gypsy heritage to protect the young duke, but when faced with the unswerving love of the earl, she insists on letting the truth be known far and wide, as a sort of a test. And even then, she makes him jump through all sorts of hoops to win her.<br />But win her he did, and they all lived happily ever after.	2003-07-07
US	52928593	R1I1NKY94N5GUP	0451205650	862200937	The Fortune Hunter	Books	5	7	7	N	Y	She can't marry him . . but she can't let him go either.	Olivia Fairfax has lots of money and she gets a great deal of satisfaction from managing an orphanage. She won't give up her freedom in exchange for a tyrannical husband. She has everything she needs. . . doesn't she?<br />George, Lord Rival, has inherited a rundown estate, and the only way he can save it--and the tenants who depend on him--is to marry a wealthy heiress. Unfortunately, his reputation as a heartless rake has chased away even the most desperate social climbing cits. As much as he loathes himself for doing it, he sets out to win a wealthy wife. . . by hook or by crook. <br />Olivia's name is the first on his list, and from the outset, George's carefully contrived plan to win her goes awry. But for some reason, he finds himself gravitating around her like a bee to a flower. She seems adamant against marrying him, but he can't give up and go on to the next heiress on the list. She's beautiful, intelligent, efficient, charming, passionate. . . being married to her would be a pleasure in itself. The money would be icing on the cake.<br />Olivia knows she should not trust him. Others warn her that it is dangerous to keep him around. But she finds herself looking forward to seeing him, dressing to please him, even exploring the edges of passion with him. But she cannot marry him. She prizes her independence too much. She should let him go, but the pain of imagining his marriage to another heiress makes her reluctant to part with him. How can she marry him? How can she NOT marry him? What would it be like to share her life with this man, to bear his children--her children too? And then, just when things look promising for this unlikely couple, the bottom falls out of their world and threatens their happiness.<br />Diane Farr has taken a familiar theme and given it a fresh, new aprroach. There are fortune hunters. . . and there are fortune hunters. This one is special. Run--do not walk--to the store to purchase this book. You won't be sorry.	2002-08-11
US	52928593	R2VU11QCCT1HT0	0380818205	825716848	The Marriage Lesson (Effington Family & Friends)	Books	4	10	10	N	N	Romance & humor - a delightful combination!	Marianne and Thomas are so obviously in love with each other, but neither will admit it. I loved the way Thomas persisted in trying to do romantic things to win her...even if his acts turned out more silly than heroic! How she could keep rejecting his marriage proposals in such circumstances is beyond my understanding!<br />The characters in this story are endearing; I look forward to seeing them again in future stories. The romantic and sexual tension kept me turning the pages well past my bedtime. Victoria Alexander will hereon in be ranked with Julia Quinn, Christina Dodd, and Jill Barnett as favorite authors of romantic humor.<br />However, the lady did protest a bit too much, in my opinion. Surely even a dimwit could have divined that Thomas was in love with Marianne, even if he didn't think to say the actual words. And the sexual encounters between the two were too numerous to be consistent with this period. One would have been enough to make any unmarried couple fearful of pregnancy, but as many times as these two go at it...well, it's an accident waiting to happen! And, from the start, I was doubtful that society of the period would cast an approving eye on a situation where three young girls came to live in a home with an eligible bachelor, even sporting a dragon of a chaperone.<br />Still, this is a captivating story that will have you in tears of joy and laughter clear to the end. Let's have more like this one, Ms. Alexander!	2002-03-11
US	52928593	R3TDBPQBFN8717	0373511698	841557702	The Admiral's Daughter: A Regency Romance	Books	4	0	0	N	Y	An unconventional miss avoids a marriage of convenience	Lord Adam Darvell knows that he will have to marry Miss Helena Wyatt after he rescues her from certain death by drowning and the two of them end up unchaperoned on his ship for several days. When she turns him down flat...several times...he should feel relieved, but strangely does not. The more he gets to know her, the more appealing becomes the idea of having her as a wife.<br />Helena, on the other hand, cannot imagine submitting to a marriage of convenience. As long as nobody ever finds out, why should she be foisted permanently on the dashing young lord who did nothing but save her life?<br />As much as I like independent heroines who are not easily won, this one really takes the cake! She really goes all out to make him feel bad in her repeated refusals. How many men would keep coming back for more? Methinks the lady doth protest too much!!!<br />Still, this Regency is well above average and will be enjoyed by most Regency fans.	2002-03-10
US	52928593	R1F6I06C9CIBX2	0843941081	478993448	The Perfect Wife (Leisure historical romance)	Books	4	12	15	N	Y	She's not the woman he thought he married.	Sabrina has spent the past 10 years as a very proper matron raising a daughter alone. In truth, she is trying to wipe out her scandalous past as a daring smuggler for the sake of her daughter's marriage prospects. Suddenly facing financial reverses at a time when she desperately needs a dowry for her daughter, Sabrina jumps at the chance to go treasure hunting in Egypt. Not understanding what is happening, her daughter Belinda turns to her fiancé for help, and he in turn pleads with his father to intercede.<br />An absentee father, the Earl of Wyldewood has been feeling guilty about his past relationship with his son. The endless pursuit of pleasure has left him somewhat jaded and cynical, and he has thought about remarrying, if for nothing more than to have a chatelaine and hostess for his home. When the sparks fly between the earl and Sabrina, he impulsively decides to ask her to marry him. She seems to be a perfectly proper society matron, and the attraction between them is an added bonus.<br />Unfortunately, she seems to be leaving for an extended trip, and the earl decides to accompany her as a protector. Of course, when their children learn that their parents have taken off together for Egypt, they persuade an aunt to accompany them in hot pursuit. The earl, after all, is a known rake, and certainly cannot be trusted alone with a woman for an extended period.<br />Sabrina impulsively marries the earl on board the ship, then discovers that he has the power to destroy her if he discovers the secret of her smuggler-past.  She loves him, but fears that he will reject her when he discovers how very far from proper she truly is. Not being blind or stupid, the earl realizes rather quickly that Sabrina is in reality a very feisty and spirited lady, and he finds himself entranced rather than repelled. Still, there is something she isn't telling him...something in the past she has shared with the handsome American ship captain. And he determines to stick with her untilhe discovers what it is.<br />I really feel this book would be better if it included a more vivid description of Sabrina's days as a smuggler and her run-in with the earl, then a government agent.  As it is, those scenes are vague, and the motivation for the earl's fierce determination to catch her just isn't clear to me. If she had been an agent for the French or some such thing, I could understand his dilemma...but smuggling just isn't in the same league as treason. <br />Other than that, I truly enjoyed the book and would love to find out what happened between Matt and Wynne, since their liaison was not resolved.	2002-03-10
US	52928593	R2V8O8JWKU0CS2	0373291914	829285409	My Lady'S Trust	Books	4	8	8	N	Y	An emotional roller coaster that will keep you turning pages	Laura Martin has a good reason for trying to make herself invisible...her life is at stake. Unfortunately, the earl of Beaulieu is determined to bring her out in the open...as his mistress. As much as Laura feels drawn to him, she has more to fear than her reputation. Their romance is impossible, for reasons that she cannot divulge.<br />According to the earl's thinking, the widowed Laura is the perfect choice for a mistress. Being known as his mistress can only enhance her standing with the ton and would certainly not prevent her from marrying respectably after the conclusion of their liaison. Although he cannot imagine ever letting her go to another man....<br />Inevitably, his interference endangers the very woman he sought to protect, and it is only then that he realizes his true feelings and his unworthiness to be her husband.<br />As much as I enjoyed this book--couldn't put it down, in fact--I was disgusted at the earl's vision of bringing her to society's notice as his acknowledged mistress. Trust a man to rationalize his lust by persuading himself it's in his victim's best interests! From what I've read of this period--and I've read extensively--such women were part of the demimonde and NOT considered respectable at all, even if some of their activities were overlooked. And such a dimwit to have guessed so much of her secret and not realize his actions were putting her in extreme danger!<br />Still, even considering the hero's shortcomings, this is an enjoyable, very engrossing story that I guarantee any reader will not soon forget.	2002-03-09
US	52928593	R2L36VAE4X75P0	0515131687	863649242	Once A Mistress	Books	4	28	29	N	Y	Truly rivting, but flawed with some inaccuracies	When Andrew Ramsey loses his father in a tragic accident, he discovers that his father has left very specific instructions as to how he is to care for his father's various mistresses and bastard children. One of these mistresses appears to be living on the estate, and intending to bring an end to this scandalous situation, Andrew hastens to the estate. Only to discover that the mistress in question is his former fianc&eacute;e, who left him standing at the altar four years ago. And that she has a child who looks remarkably like him who is clearly recognized as his father's illegitimite son. Is it possible that his fianc&eacute;e jilted him to become his father's mistress?<br />So begins Andrew's journey into a nightmarish past, that causes him to question the character of his father and the woman he himself had planned to marry. As incredible as it seems, Kathryn had borne a son and the father of that son was his own father! Any man would be angry to discover this situation, but how many would be angry that his father had not MARRIED her! After getting over his initial anger at Kathryn's faithlessness, Andrew wonders how his father could be so crude as to make her his mistress instead of his wife.<br />It is only a small step from there to realize that he still loves Kathryn and wants to be her husband and the father of her son, his half-brother. But there are still many unanswered questions. Why did she jilt him and then refuse to see him or explain why? Why did his father never tell him about her? Why does Kathryn--in spite of being a mother and a scandalous mistress--seem as innocent as ever in the lovemaking department? It is truly amazing that Andrew is willing to marry her without finding out all the answers to these questions first, or that Kathryn waits so long to tell him the truth.<br />Frankly, I devoured this book. I cried several times while reading this book. It's fantastic! I'd give it five stars, except that there were some flaws. For example, the assumption that the father's bastard child could be Andrew's heir. The father's willingness to subject Kathryn to scandal seems out of character. Kathryn insists that she can't bear any children for fear of an inherited disease and then she expresses the desire to have children with Andrew. But even though not all of the t's were crossed, this book is exceptional and I strongly recommend it.	2002-02-24
US	52928593	R22ZCBPHY77Q7Y	0743410262	327700345	Educating Caroline (Sonnet Books)	Books	5	3	5	N	Y	A real gem for any lover of historical romances!	After you've read as many books in this genre as I have, you notice that they are all pretty much the same. But every now and then, you find a real treasure that reminds you why you started reading historical romances in the first place. \\"Educating Caroline\\" is such a book.<br />Caroline is the most delightful heroine I've run across in quite some time. Her naiveté is refreshingly hilarious. One of the funniest scenes is when Caroline is discussing Braden Granville's kiss with her friend Emma, who is horrifed at Caroline's \\"lovemaking lessons\\" to help her keep her fiancé from straying. She says it's Braden Granville's fault that Caroline no longer wants to marry her fiancé, since she'd never have known anything was missing in the relationship if he hadn't stuck his tongue in her mouth.<br />\\"Or,\\" Caroline added, thoughtfully, \\"put his hand down my shimmy.\\"<br />Emily cried, \\"He what?\\"<br />\\"...I forgot...about that part.\\"<br />I had tears in my eyes from laughing. This book has it all: original, likable lovers who are obviously meant for each other, humorous situations, and plenty of spice without being crass. I enjoyed it so much I can't think of anything negative to say about it. I'd give it more than five stars if I could!	2002-02-18
US	52928593	R1EDZTMVVEZ014	0743411978	636751612	Fever (Sonnet Books)	Books	4	10	12	N	Y	Reminiscent of Gone With the Wind	The vivid descriptions and character details of this book kept me glued to the pages for three hours...when I reached the end with real tears in my eyes. Ms. Sutcliffe took the time to develop this book as few other historical authors do. I could actually feel the frustration of living in a time when it was forbidden for slaves to learn to read and people could be hung for doing it. I liked the heroine's resilience and determination to rebuild her plantation no matter what it took, even if her beloved rejected her along with everyone else. Kind of a like a nice Scarlett O'Hara.<br />Unfortunately, there are several inconsistencies and holes in the plot. For example, the plantation--Belle Jarod--had come from her father, Jack Broussard, yet bore the name of Juliette's mother, Maureen Jarod. One is led to believe in the beginning that Maureen was nothing but a prostitute who destroyed her husband's life with her affairs with other men. Then we find that she befriended slaves and worked side by side with them to make the plantation successful. We know for certain that she had one affair--with her husband's best friend--but that is supposedly because her husband neglected her because of his responsibilities on the plantation. So I'm confused. DID she have a lot of affairs? WAS she a prostitute? Or was that all blown out of proportion?<br />Maybe I read the book too quickly, but I am really fuzzy on how the house burned down the same day Jack found Maureen with his best friend. Jack must have done it, but since Maureen died in the fire, wouldn't that be murder? Such a thing is never suggested. And there are other fuzzy parts. Like how did Juliette end up in the river that day when Chance saved her? It didn't appear to be suicide. And when the five hooded monsters came to Belle Jarod and the black woman died trying to protect Juliette, what exactly did they do? Was it so horrible the author is trying to protect our sensibilities? More fuzzy parts and questions. And Tylorwas a caricature of a villain. He didn't have one speck of good in him, so it was too easy to hate him. Ms. Sutcliffe could have given him a bit more depth.<br />But both Juliette and Chantz are well-drawn characters who are not easily forgotten. Some of the details may be unclear, but it IS clear that I was hooked from the first page, and by the middle of the story, even the thought of eating lunch could not draw me away from it. \\"Fever\\" is a much deeper, darker story than I am used to reading, and it left me reeling with strong emotions. I recommend it with these words of warning: don't ask too many questions and don't start reading it if you have a big project to finish.	2002-02-16
US	52928593	R29ALLIGGAI3R0	0821771930	520333787	A Rake's Redemption	Books	4	4	4	N	N	A heroine willing to sacrifice herself for her friends	Lawrence, Earl of Hardcastle, is hot on the heels of a young man he believes is trying to renege on a wager. Although he has no need of the young man's estate--having four estates of his own--honor demands that he \\"persuade\\" the impulsive young man to comply with his responsibilities.<br />Unfortunately, he is attacked by highwaymen and left for dead. When he awakens, he is in the humble home of a retired vicar and his beautiful daughter, Phaedra. Having never met a woman so beautiful, intelligent, and good, Lawrence at first is reluctant to let her know his true identity, since his reputation as a debauched rake is widely known.<br />So when she first learns of his true identity, Phaedra has already had a chance to get to know the man, \\"Mr. Lawrence,\\" behind the scandalous name. She suspects that he is not a hopeless case, that he has the potential to be redeemed. But when she discovers that the errand that brought him to their village will ruin the lives of her friends, she begs him not to follow through on it. The young man who recklessly wagered and lost his estate is all but engaged to her best friend. The young man's sister, another of Phaedra's friends, is an invalid widow of a fallen soldier, and their mother is incapacitated as well. If their estate is taken away, they will all lose their home and livelihood, and the young baron would certainly never be in a position to marry the woman he loves.<br />But the earl just shakes his head and insists that he has no choice but to claim the wager, that his own honor would be impugned if he did not, that the young man will have to live with his shame, that Phaedra, being a woman, cannot possibly understand the way of the world. And while Phaedra is shattered by the devastating blow that is about to be delivered to her friends, the earl is wondering how he can seduce her.<br />Actually, he doesn't have to do much, because Phaedra, in spite of being a vicar's daughter and a pillar of the community, decides to wager her virginity against the forgiveness of the young man's debt. Well, she loses, of course, and--surprise--now she is required to \\"pay\\" the price with her sexual favors, like any common whore. The good news is that she's in love with the earl and not exactly reluctant to be seduced. The bad news is that she will always feel like a whore, even though no one else will ever know about it (unless she gets pregnant, the possibility of which is never mentioned).<br />While I liked this book a lot, I do feel that the earl's \\"redemption\\" takes a little too long to be believable. Or maybe his character is just too far gone to be a believable hero. He's this evil man with nothing on his mind but seducing an innocent young girl and claiming a gambling debt that will ruin the lives of many people and then--bang--he's reformed. At least in Carla Kelly's \\"Libby's London Merchant,\\" you can see the progression as the hero learns to change his thinking and his lifestyle. And it seems to me that in such a situation, an earl would more likely dispatch a servant or a Bow Street Runner to go after the young man and secure the estate than jump on a horse and gallop hell for leather without even a valet to do the job himself.<br />As for Phaedra, well, I was a little disappointed that she would do such a stupid thing as wager her virginity without thinking of ALL the consequences, if you know what I mean. I guess her concern for her friends temporarily overpowered her common sense.	2002-02-14
US	52928593	R1742RN5T1SL91	0821771698	908258154	The Christmas Wish (Zebra Regency Romance)	Books	3	2	2	N	N	Sarah's not suitable to be either a countess or a mistress.	Sarah Cresswell is the oldest daughter of a notorious London jewel thief, whose daring antics and escape from Newgate and the hangman have plunged the family into disgrace. Sarah and her sisters react to their disgrace in different ways. Being the oldest, Sarah has tried to be a mother-figure for her younger sisters, and she is resigned to the fact that none of them will ever marry respectably because of their father's disgrace. Instead of languishing in self-pity, Sarah focuses her energy on those who are less well-off than she: neglected orphans and children of prostitutes.<br />Lord Chance, nicknamed \\"The Flawless Earl,\\" needs help locating a family heirloom--a diamond necklace--which was stolen from his mother by his irresponsible brother and then mysteriously disappeared. It is suggested that the daughter of a notorious jewel thief would be a good person to track down the necklace before his mother discovers its loss, so Lord Chance calls on Sarah to ask for her help.<br />It is here where the plot loses some credibility. Sarah--although she is acquainted with the seamier side of London and clearly has learned a few pickpocket tricks from her father--really does nothing that Lord Chance couldn't have done on his own. In fact, the entire mystery could have been solved in a matter of minutes if the younger brother Ben hadn't conveniently disappeared for most of the story. The solution to the necklace's disappearance becomes obvious after Ben submits to a few simple questions. Lord Chance is not portrayed as stupid, so why didn't he think to ask those questions when Ben first admitted he had lost the necklace? Why did he allow Ben to fly the coop before the necklace was found? I mean, you wouldn't have to be Jessica Fletcher or Hercule Poirot to see Ben as a material witness in this crime.<br />The romance of the story was sweet and poignant, but Lord Chance disappointed me again when he initially refuses to consider Sarah as a potential wife. True, he doesn't askher to be his mistress either, but it is clear that he would like to. Would he have eventually proposed marriage if Dandy Dan, the jewel-thief father, hadn't pressed him to do so? I'm not convinced that he would have. He thought too much about his former mistresses when he was around her.<br />I wanted to like this book because I LOVED the sequel--The Valentine Wish--which is the story of Sarah's sister Emma. Emma's beau is not at all fazed by her connection to a jewel thief. Nor does he consider making her his mistress. All of which make him a much more satisfactory hero and a big reason I gave that book five stars and this one a more average rating of three stars.	2002-02-10
US	52928593	R1D5KVU3HHFE1K	0821771701	821893617	The Valentine Wish (Zebra Regency Romance)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Just what a Regency romance should be!	Okay, I admit to having a personal prejudice against reluctant heroes, heroes with mistresses, and debauched and cruel heroes, no matter how skillfully they have been rehabilitated by their authors. And maybe the reason these unsatisfactory types of heroes are so often dished up to Regency fans is that so many women are drawn to roguish men and truly wish to believe that such men are redeemable. Hah! I may be a sucker for a good romance, but I've listened to Dr. Laura far too long to be taken in by such drivel!<br />That said, I have to say that the hero in \\"The Valentine Wish\\" is my idea of the ideal Regency hero. Cedric is a man who cares for his family, looks out for the needy, and cares nothing for the formality and hypocrisy of London society. He is strong and sincere and cultivates roses as a hobby. The fact that he is also good looking and well-spoken is icing on the cake.<br />Emma's background as the daughter of a scandalous jewel thief makes her reluctant to trust people. She is determined to hide her passionate nature under a facade of propriety. The last thing she is looking for is a slightly loony employer who treats her as an honored guest, whose charming nephew sweeps her off her feet with compliments, roses, and romantic picnics. While most young ladies would swoon to be in her situation, Emma knows from past experience that fairy tales rarely come true and that all roses have thorns.<br />Debbie Raleigh has outdone herself in this delightful story of a Renaissance man and how he convinces a wary woman to risk her heart for the promise of true love. I enjoyed this book so much that I plan to read \\"The Christmas Wish\\"--the prequel to this book--next, even if it is the wrong order.	2002-02-06
US	52928593	R2QML8ZEUSDI5V	0515131660	361521223	Once Upon a Rose (The Once Upon Series)	Books	3	2	2	N	Y	Perfect princesses, curses and princes, roses and ice...	As I was sitting at home recovering from the flu, I thought I could use a good fairy tale to make me forget all my aches and pains, so I grabbed this book off the shelf. Although pleasant enough little tales, there were rather annoying flaws in every story.<br />&quot;Winter Rose&quot; by Nora Roberts has some eerie parallels to the story of &quot;Beauty and the Beast,&quot; what with the symbolism of the rose and the curse and all.<br />&quot;The Rose and the Sword&quot; by Jill Gregory was probably the best of the lot; however, the hero's initial nastiness was somewhat overdone, which made it difficult to believe his miraculous transformation on their wedding night.<br />&quot;The Roses of Glenross&quot; was easily the weakest story, although the love story was very evocative and sweet. The plot seemed a bit contrived, and it was with a raised eyebrow that I read about the two lovers consummating their love without benefit of marriage on the grounds of a convent with the holy sisters' full approval.<br />&quot;The Fairest Rose&quot; by Marianne Willman is plagued with a hero who is infatuated with the heroine's half-sister until the very end, at which time we are expected to believe that he is REALLY in love with the heroine herself and has been for some time. Frankly, I thought Rosaleen deserved much better.<br />In fact, one of my complaints about these novellas is the absolute perfection of the heroines, especially in contrast to the heroes (at least in the case of &quot;The Rose and the Sword&quot; and &quot;The Fairest Rose&quot;). These women are too beautiful and good to be believed. How could anyone stand to be around them? The men, on the other hand, range from normal men with the usual faults to a man who paws serving women in the presence of his betrothed. I guess it's the usual double standard that you find in most fairy stories. And I did forget my aches and pains for awhile, so it was definitely time well-spent.	2002-01-28
US	52928593	R3SXNLC8TCWMS3	0380811995	926249134	Rules of Attraction (Governess Brides, Book 3)	Books	3	8	10	N	Y	Too cruel and bent on revenge to be a man in love.	At the beginning when Hannah arrived at her new post and discovered that her employer was actually her estranged husband, I was hooked. It appeared that Dougald had been anxiously awaiting her arrival and that he wanted to make amends. I was eager to discover the misunderstanding that had separated the two lovers for nine long years. <br />But I was disappointed. Dougald only wanted to get revenge from the humiliation he suffered after her departure and the rumors of her death at his hands. He didn't care about her at all, except that she be obedient to his demands. He was just too cruel to be believed.<br />On the other hand, Hannah is a strong, independent woman who has proved that she doesn't need a man to succeed. So why does she succumb so easily to this man's wiles? Does she really believe a man this troubled can change overnight? She needs a good taste of Dr. Laura's \\"Ten Ways Women Screw Up Their Lives.\\"<br />This story lacks the humor of the Christina Dodd's other books. Well, there WERE traces of it, but it seemed to get swallowed up by the cruelty of the hero and his nasty butler. The ending had some humor, but I would have crowed to see that nosy old butler eaten by a crocodile or left to rot in the dungeon. (No, I'm not usually bloodthirsty, just disgusted with this guy's interference.)	2002-01-20
US	52928593	RX52GHC3M0GYR	0451197062	789933103	Too Many Matchmakers (Signet Regency Romance)	Books	3	3	3	N	N	Two arranged marriages materialize into three love matches!	Diana's impassioned words of love frightened away a young Nicholas ten years ago, leaving her to marry an elderly neighbor and Nicholas to many years of debauchery and dissipation. She's now a wealthy widow and he has inherited a title and many responsibilities. Sparks still fly between them. What's to prevent a romance between them now?<br />Everything. First of all, Nicholas finds her more suitable to be a mistress than a wife. But Diana despises rakes and libertines, and could never succumb to a liaison outside of marriage. Diana has become the champion of a young neighbor who is being forced into an arranged marriage by her parents. Nicholas has taken upon himself the duty of finding a suitable match for one of his distant relatives. Through various diverse and equally unlikely events, both Nicholas and Diana become engaged to other parties, both completely unsuitable. It becomes very obvious that the only way to extricate everyone from these mismatches is through the threat of a scandal that would bring four sets of stubborn parents to their senses.<br />My biggest complaint with the book is the hero. The way he treated Diana ten years ago showed him to be a cad of the first order, and his sudden reformation at the end is simply not credible. Although he has supposedly straightened up his life in the last two years, he still indulges in incessant and scandalous raking, blaming it all on his attraction to Diana. It's only in the last 20+ pages that he can admit to himself that his behavior with her ten years ago was abominable and that she was not trying to entrap him into marriage at the time.<br />And Diana really nails him on it, too! Go girl! Finding myself enthusiasting cheering her on when she tears his character to shreds, I was exceedingly disappointed when she allowed herself to be convinced of his sincerity. I'm usually a sucker for happy endings, but this one was too saccharine even for me.	2002-01-05
US	52928593	R5OP4OJLGGZL2	0821761218	908865968	Sweet Possession (Zebra Splendor Historical Romances)	Books	3	1	1	N	N	A couple finds romance between Indian raids.	This book has been at the bottom of my &quot;to be read&quot; pile for a couple of years, so the other day I dusted it off and started reading. I was pleasantly surprised up until the last 50 pages or so. The hero and the heroine were working together trying to find her father who was kidnapped by Indians, and the close contact was giving them cause to doubt their negative first impressions of each other. It was a bit irritating that he allowed her to think that Susie was his daughter instead of his niece and that he had a wife kidnapped by Indians that might still be alive. But I liked the part where they lived with the Indians and she learned how to value them as human beings rather than savages.<br />But the last part made me groan. I mean, Daniel had no right to get so angry with Amelia for &quot;breaking her promise&quot; to stay at the cabin that he compared her to his dead faithless wife! There were Indian raids going on all around them and she felt that she and Susie would be safer at the fort protected by the U.S. army. How was she to know that the captain was a raving lunatic with a grudge against Daniel? (Daniel didn't even know it himself!) And then, when it was all over, staying away from her for so long and making her think he didn't care...give me a break! After all that had passed between them, he should have quit sulking and gone over there and made things right between them right away.<br />Whew! I'm sure glad I don't have to worry about being massacred by Indians here in the 21st century! Somehow I don't think I'd have made it as a frontiersman.	2002-01-03
US	52928593	R1EJW6588IWUO5	0821770179	16766813	My Fair Quiggley (Zebra Book)	Books	4	1	1	N	Y	The equivalent of 1-1/2 delightful Regency romps!	This book actually contains TWO romances, although one is left incomplete. And it bothers me that I might actually MISS the next installment...either it doesn't get written and my curiosity is never satisfied or that the next installment comes too late to make a difference to me. As I recall, that was a major annoyance with Ms. Landsdowne's Nightingale series as well. As desirable as it may seem to authors and publishers to whet the reader's appetite with hints of what is to come, they may want to think twice about deliberately antagonizing readers by pulling too many tricks like this. The witty dialogue and the zany characters kept my eyes glued to the pages; what a disappointment to get to the end and discover that I have to wait for ANOTHER book to find out what happens with the romance between the duke's daughter and the failed highwayman with the mysterious past.<br />That said, I have to admit that my journey to a certain cottage in the vicinity of a village with the unpretentious name of Toadscuttle was truly delightful. The character of Desdemona Quiggley was a breath of fresh air. Her first contact with the eligible young marquis was a direct hit in the head from a stone that came from her slingshot. Although THAT was a case of mistaken identity, Dessie's subsequent threats to cut off his finger and kill him might have frightened off most prospective beaux. But her honesty, sincerity, and enthusiasm--in contrast to the deceit and pretense of most young ladies he has met--are irresistible to our sharp young hero, who doesn't waste any time disproving her first impression of him as staid and boring. Once he sees how the three ladies are determined to reform the dog-napping highwayman. he jumps right into the fray and proves himself invaluable in getting down to the bottom of the mysterious &quot;ill-fate&quot; that has dogged the ladies' business venture.<br />Although Desdemona is herself a very independent and determined young lady, she cannot hold a candleto Lady Miranda. (A previous reviewer seems to have confused these two characters.) The unmarried Lady Miranda left her family twenty-odd years ago to set up her own household in the wilderness without even a companion to keep her company, a shocking state of affairs that alienated her from her aristocratic family. Determined to prove that she can succeed on her own, Lady Miranda will go to any lengths to avoid having to ask her family for help--even going after a dastardly highwayman with a price on his head! <br />As to how Desdemona got there, well, that's a bit unclear. What brother in his right mind would pack her off to the wilderness to live with a woman as eccentric as Miranda? Dessie, however, has a way of getting what she wants, so I had little trouble suspending judgment on THAT matter.<br />But, for heaven's sake, no more torturing readers with unsolved mysteries that we must wait weeks and months to understand! Because if it happens again, this is one reader who will think twice before plunking down more good money for stories by this author.	2002-01-01
US	52928593	RLOT90TUEHEMX	0821767062	692811294	The Willful Miss Winthrop (Zebra Regency Romance)	Books	4	5	5	N	N	One cannot imagine a more patient or determined hero!	Cymberly's life in London turns sour when she refuses to marry a lord who inadvertently compromised her in a carriage accident. So she decides to travel to Portugal to be with her general father, even though &quot;following the drum&quot; is not considered &quot;good ton.&quot; While there, she rolls up her sleeves and steels herself to help nurse the wounded and dying soldiers. After her father's death, she decides to stick around a bit longer. <br />During this time, she has two suitors: Geoffrey Ryder, a quiet but seemingly honorable man, and Reggie Fleming, a popular lieutenant who's always the life of any party. Although attracted to Major Ryder, she cannot forget the fact that he is a distant member of her mother's family and is, indeed, the heir to her grandfather's title. The grandfather--an earl--disinherited his daughter when she married Cymberly's father and heartlessly refused to see them later on when Cymberly and her mother tried to heal the breach. Even worse, he refused to come to his own daughter's deathbed when Cymberly begged him to come and make things right so that her mother could die in peace. Cymberly's bitter feelings toward her grandfather make it impossible for her to trust any member of that family, including Major Ryder.<br />How many men would keep trying after being rejected and insulted as many times as Geoffrey Ryder? Especially when the woman he loves appears to be in love with another--less worthy--man? How many men would keep their mouths shut when they had the means of ruining their rival's reputation? Especially when they themselves are unjustly accused of manipulating that rival's death in order to have a clear playing field with Cymberly? Not too many. One is left with the impression that Major Ryder is far too good for Cymberly!<br />I guess that is why I don't think this book deserves a fifth star. Cymberly's prejudice against Major Ryder and her blindness at Reggie's weak character go on far too long and cause the book to drag a bit in the middle. Everyone around her knows the truth about these two men; it just doesn't ring true that she would take so long to realize it herself. And the name Cymberly doesn't seem appropriate for the period either. But I simply cannot imagine any man waiting around so long after being so badly treated again and again by the woman he cares about. Quite extraordinary!	2001-12-31
US	52928593	R3PLTNWIEHD8MX	0380815354	234046856	Once Tempted	Books	5	3	5	N	Y	An officer seeks the truth about his brother's death.	A naive, young Olivia was tricked by the man she loved into revealing secrets to enemies of the British and blamed for the death of a young Spaniard, who, before he died, gave her a ring and begged her to give it to someone named &quot;Hobbe.&quot; She had no choice but to flee the scene, eventually finding a position as a companion under a false name, since her real one had been vilified in society as a murderess and a loose woman.<br />Seven years later, the treacherous marquis that everyone thought dead is back, and Olivia returns for her revenge. But for some reason, she can't pull the trigger, and instead becomes HIS prisoner. It doesn't take her long to learn that he isn't the man who wronged her at all, but his look-alike cousin, an aide to Wellington himself, who has been ordered to masquerade as the marquis in order to flush out the murderess of the young Spaniard--his beloved brother--who also has the key to a centuries-old treasure that everyone wants desperately, especially the French.<br />Although she starts out as a silly seventeen-year-old easily deceived by a false lover, Olivia has grown and matured into a strong, independent woman who can face danger calmly and courageously. Robert Danvers steels himself against her charm, believing her responsible for his brother's death. And Olivia discovers that this man's physical resemblance to his evil cousin masks an honorable soul, truly worthy of her devotion. But will he ever really trust her?<br />This book is one of the better ones I've read recently. Oh, I got a little impatient at the length of time it took Robert to get over his suspicions of Olivia's character, and the treasure hunt was a little unbelievable, but these are minor detractions to the love story between these two courageous lovers. I also enjoyed the character of the all-knowing Mrs. Finch, who doesn't hesitate to give everyone advice on just about everything.<br />So if you're looking for a typical swooning Regency heroine, look elsewhere. This one has more to worry about than being considered a bluestocking; she proves herself more than capable of dealing with whatever challenges come her way. And for his part, Robert turns out to be a truly worthy hero. Enjoy!	2001-12-30
US	52928593	R1B18VM5Y75AZ8	0451198255	158700400	Birds of a Feather (Signet Regency Romance)	Books	3	5	6	N	N	The older brother would have made a better hero!	Joanna takes her responsibilities as chaperone to her cousin Harriet very seriously indeed, and she needs a friend like Reggie to help her vet Harriet's suitors in order to find the best candidate. Reggie's arrogant younger brother, Lord Sedgewick Wylie, believes her to be a scheming fortune hunter pursuing Reggie's title and riches. How ironic, then, when Sedge is the one who ends up marrying Joanna after his clumsy attempt to foil a tete-a-tete backfires and her reputation is compromised. Not only do Joanna and Sedge have to work very hard to combat the rumor-mongers-his parents among them-but they must find a way to make something of their mesalliance of a marriage.<br />The biggest problem with this book is the hero. He has a cruel tongue and a temper, and although he tries to control himself at the end of the book, I still cannot believe a &quot;happy ever after&quot; ending for this couple. The love he proclaims for Joanna seems more like lust than anything else. And the problems with the parents just makes the situation more hopeless. No, Joanna should have run back home to the vicarage when she had the chance!<br />Actually, Reggie would have been a marvelous hero. What a shame that the author didn't go that way instead of turning to the dandy-brother! He obviously loves her and appreciates her a lot more than Sedge does! As for his problem, well, I am a great believer in the healing power of true love!	2001-12-28
US	52928593	RS3PUA3NC7MSV	038081806X	27779014	Someone Irresistible (Avon Romantic Treasure)	Books	3	6	6	N	Y	This professor's love is reserved for old dinosaur bones.	I've never liked books with reluctant heroes, and this one is as reluctant as they come. The only emotion displayed by Professor Price--other than his attachment to old dinosaur bones--is the bitterness he feels for being cheated of his greatest triumph the night his precious jawbone disappeared. Well, lust does play a part in it, but no matter what lengths Mimi goes to in her MANY attempts to seduce him, he always seems to be able to resist temptation. Well, almost always.<br />And that leads to another thing I've always loathed: heroines who chase after reluctant heroes. And this one goes all out, even conspiring with a mutual friend to maneuver him into a situation where he can't refuse. In spite of her provocative manner of dress, &quot;come hither&quot; looks, and constant professions of affection, she refuses to give him the answers he seeks about what happened to his precious jawbone.<br />Even though I don't care much for this guy as a hero, I can easily understand why he doesn't trust Mimi or her family. I don't trust them either! In fact, the characters of the father and sister are not well drawn; it is not clear why either of them does what they do, or how Mimi could expect the hero to forgive her before actually telling him the truth about what happened.<br />So, I'd have to say that this book leaves a lot to be desired in a romance novel. But hey, if you're into dinosaur bones and paleontology, this one is right up your alley!	2001-12-27
US	52928593	R1TU6QY3GUXI3W	0451204735	890319899	Labor of Love (Signet Regency Romance)	Books	3	10	11	N	Y	A pregnant heroine snares a lord with a terrible secret.	Skeptical at the premise of a love match between a brooding lord and a widow on the point of giving birth to another man's child, I had relegated this book to the bottom of my &quot;To Be Read&quot; pile until I read some very favorable reviews of it and decided to give it a chance. (Although pregnant women have been said to be &quot;glowingly beautiful,&quot; I don't think they were talking about the last few weeks of pregnancy when they said it.) And, in all honesty, it WAS much more believable than I expected. The heroine on the front cover, however, is inexplicably not pregnant at all! Hmm!!!<br />All in all, it was NOT one of the worst Regencies I've read. But there was something about the heroine that bothered me. I guess I don't really care for fortune-hunting heroines who determinedly set out to snare their men to ensure a life of comfort. And who sneak around gossiping with servants and reading someone else's private correspondence trying to find out if a potential husband is guilty of a terrible crime. There are mitigating factors for this behavior, I suppose. Her late husband had left her with nothing, responsible for an unborn child and a sixteen-year-old sister. Women in those days didn't have a lot of options. And she had to make sure of his character before marrying him, especially after her miserable first marriage.<br />So, while she had excellent reasons for doing what she did, I couldn't really LIKE her very much, and that took away from the romance of the story. Like a previous reviewer, I wanted her to trust him long before she did, even though that might not be fair, under the circumstances.<br />Another thing that bothered me was the fact that she was turned out of her late husband's home by the new heir even though she was pregnant and that her child, if male, would BE the new heir! I find it hard to believe that a new heir would be installed under these circumstances, or that the pregnant widow could be tossed out into the cold like that.<br/>And Olivia is MUCH too sure of her power to attract the brooding lord. Again, maybe understandable as she is no innocent miss, but certainly not very romantic.	2001-12-26
US	52928593	RT36KG606DDQ4	0380812029	66659014	All About Passion	Books	4	3	3	N	Y	A good read, but a bit heavy on sexual gymnastics. . .	You know, I've been a Stephanie Laurens fan since devouring her first book several years ago, but this one struck me as more erotic than romantic. Gyles holds out too long before admitting his feelings for Francesca, and frankly, I still don't understand why. His parents obviously were a very loving and happy couple, and the tragic accident that took his father's life doesn't give him a good reason to fear love the way he does. Francesca is an admirable character with depth and wisdom beyond her years, but Gyles comes across as a typical male chauvinist determined to have his own way no matter who it hurts. Not very lovable, unless you consider his prowess in the bedroom...which, apparently, Francesca does. But Francesca's love chips away and eventually melts her husband's cold heart, leaving him nearly human in the end. An enjoyable read, but far too dependent on sexual gymnastics to earn five stars from me.	2001-12-25
US	52928593	R3B8R7FO4JV3L7	0553582542	376135399	Seduction In Mind	Books	3	2	2	N	Y	Where's the romance?	If you're looking for steamy sex, this is the book for you! But in all honesty it should be categorized as erotica rather than romance. The hero is a sex addict and the heroine is little more than one of those &quot;willing widows&quot; who has discreet affairs on the fringes of society. Happy ever after is hard to believe with these two people. A nice cold shower should bring them to their senses... and you'll need one too if you read this book!	2001-12-25
US	52928593	ROLZ9EWW04VH6	0451204611	571656656	Libby's London Merchant & Miss Chartley's Guided Tour (Signet Regency Romance)	Books	5	1	1	N	Y	Two extraordinary Regencies in one volume!	Both stories feature flawed, but lovable heroes and loving, resilient heroines who were themselves not strangers to tragedy. I must admit feeling quite envious of Libby having TWO such excellent suitors, and I felt terribly sorry for the one she had to turn down. But she chose the right one, and I know that Ms. Kelly will not long leave him to his self-pity because I have already ordered the sequel, &quot;One Good Turn,&quot; in which he meets his own true mate.	2001-12-24
US	52928593	RWCMAATARK6QP	0451204824	289469658	One Good Turn (Signet Regency Romance)	Books	5	14	15	N	Y	More than just your average, everyday Regency!	If you're looking for a lighthearted romance and the typical heroine with nothing more to worry about than which dress to wear to Almack's, look elsewhere. This book with its flawed hero and resilient heroine shows us the other side of the Regency era: the poverty that welcomed the common soldiers as they returned home after their sufferings on the Continent, the psychological scars that lingered in the minds of every man, woman, or child who lived through the horrors of war, regardless of rank. And frankly, this is the first I've ever heard of the atrocities committed by BRITISH troops at Badajoz. The British are always the GOOD guys in these stories, after all. How easy it is to forget that war is, by definition, an ugly thing!<br />Having only recently been introduced to the hero in &quot;Libby's London Merchant,&quot; I must admit that I was disappointed to discover that his heroine was a Spanish camp follower with a son--certainly a far cry from Libby, whose marriage to another man had left him broken-hearted in the previous story. But I had to find out what happened to Nez because--I admit it--I fell in love with him myself and wanted to make sure he was well taken care of!<br />As I finished the book--through a veil of tears--I can truthfully say that Liria and Nez complete each other in a way that Libby and Nez could never have done if they had married. This is more than a romance; it is a meeting of souls who have survived deep pain and become stronger because of it. I'd give it TEN stars if I could, in spite of the numerous errors in Spanish grammar that I noticed.<br />Brava, Ms. Kelly! Let's have more like this one!	2001-12-24
US	52928593	R1Z8L22GKWA11O	0743417933	196035583	The Very Comely Countess (Sonnet Books)	Books	5	5	5	N	Y	A spirited orange girl captures the heart of an earl.	A lord marrying an orange seller is as unlikely a Regency plot as I've ever seen, and yet...the interplay between these two characters kept me spellbound all the way through to the end. Of course, Harriet Treene isn't your average, everyday orange seller, and it isn't just her beauty that captures the heart of the broodingly handsome Lord Bonnington. Her courage and character, her intelligence, her witty repartee--yes, even her bold Cockney accent--make her the perfect counterpart for a lonely earl seeking purpose and meaning in his life.<br />Okay, I admit that it's a bit farfetched that Regency society would accept an orange-girl countess, especially one that was widely known to be the earl's mistress before their marriage. But you know what? This is one of those love stories that everyone dreams of in their heart of hearts--even those stuffy old matrons who look down their noses at any girl dancing the waltz without their permission--and I, for one, am willing to suspend judgment in exchange for the most engrossing read in the last six months.	2001-12-23
US	52928593	R57UHHB8LUSK5	0821770608	556087982	Love Only Once	Books	3	28	30	N	Y	Plagued by problems with historical accuracy	I was intrigued by the plot and drawn in right from the beginning, but as I continued reading I found more and more historical inaccuracies that detracted from my enjoyment of the book. For one thing, there must be a reason why most authors of historical romance don't make REAL people characters in their books (other than cameo appearances). Jean Lafitte and Beau Brummell portrayed as nice people helping out a pair of lovers just didn't ring true. Why in heaven's name would Jean Lafitte appear in England so soon after helping the Americans in the war? And that goes for the hero too. He really was guilty of treason against England, and yet he had no hesitation returning to England. How, then, can he be so indignant at being arrested for treason?<br />Another big problem with this book is the apparent ease with which the heroine manages to give birth to an illegitimite child without being questioned by anyone. She mentions a couple of times that she plans to say she was widowed in the war if anyone questions her, but apparently nobody does in over two years. Nor does she even use a married name. Even a duke's daughter would cause a scandal in such a situation, and yet apparently nobody even raises an eyebrow. Nor does she show a moment's concern that her son might be labeled a bastard all his life. Elizabeth's actions show her to be more a contemporary character than a historical one.<br />And then there are minor errors, such as calling Jonathan &quot;Earl Longdale&quot; instead of &quot;Lord Longdale&quot; and having a character called Tiffany 150 years too early that perhaps the average reader might miss. You know, I am not such a nitpicker that I would let little things like this keep me from enjoying a book; however, this book just didn't ring true for me, maybe because I've read so many books set in this time period that I have a pretty good idea what it was like back then. I'd like to see Ms. Jernigan do the same before writing her next historical romance.	2001-12-15
US	52928593	R7Z7J9PDCYGN2	0380809281	451484298	A Dangerous Love (Swanlea Spinsters, Book 1)	Books	5	18	20	N	Y	Her father stole HIS birthright. Is their love doomed?	Griff has lived under the shadow of illegitimacy and poverty all his life, while the man who stole his title and fortune lived in luxury with his happy family. Now that he has the opportunity to obtain proof of his birthright, how can he even THINK of letting it slip through his fingers? But his dilemma comes from the fact that making his lifelong dream come true will come at the expense of separating him forever from the woman of his dreams...Rosalind, the daughter of his nemesis.<br />Rosalind's love for Griff survives even the shock of discovering that he has been masquerading as his man of his affairs. But how can she marry a man who is planning to destroy her family? Although she realizes that it is her father's dishonorable deed that was responsible for molding Griff's character, she can't bring herself to marry such a man...no matter how much she loves and desires him.<br />By the time Griff realizes that nothing matters to him except his love for Rosalind, she has fled and it may be too late to convince her of his sincerity. Once he finds her, what can he do to prove to her that he has put aside his plans for revenge once and for all?<br />WOW! This book is a rare page-turner, indeed! Rosalind is a strong woman committed to the welfare of her family. Griff is a bitter man who realizes that none of it matters but his love for Rosalind. Very emotional + very sensual = very enjoyable for this new Sabrina Jeffries fan!	2000-12-10
US	52928593	R2PK6M3DW9IKHQ	0821767054	461891108	The Marquis' Kiss (Zebra Regency Romance)	Books	3	6	7	N	N	Not a riveting romance...somewhat hard to get through	The Marquis is looking for a bride, but his last two prospects cried off after he kissed them, so he thinks there's something about his kiss that makes him unacceptable as a husband. (Although it's not specifically stated, the reader is led to believe that he is a virgin or at least the next best thing to one.) His courtship of Margaret Munroe starts out as more of an accident that anything else, but it isn't long before he finds himself falling for her honest character as well as her physical attractions.<br />Margaret has been in love with Thomas since the time he was the fiancé of her cousin Allison. She should have been ecstatic when he begins to show an interest in her, but she finds herself wondering if he is too cold and stuffy to be a good match with her since he refuses to kiss her even when she practically begs him to do it. <br />I usually get through a Regency in a couple of hours tops, but this one took several days. The hero is too introspective and boring. His reasons for marrying are not romantic, and the romance only comes into play in the last chapter. There's something about the secondary plot involving a romance between the hero's sister and an honorable but somewhat stupid artist that just doesn't seem to fit in this story. I love the crotchety aunt, though, and I admire Margaret for being true to her convictions even though they go against the dictates of society, and it's only for this reason that I give it three stars instead of two.	2000-11-30
US	52928593	RLT9XI1TYEPN3	0380815346	151594066	No Marriage of Convenience (Avon Romantic Treasure)	Books	5	33	34	N	Y	The earl has to marry an heiress for his family's sake.	No matter how hard he tries to make ends meet, Mason St. Clair can't see any way out of his financial difficulties that doesn't involve marrying an heiress. His father and older brother before him devastated the estate with their mistresses and frivolities; now it was up to Mason--the Oxford college professor--to sacrifice himself to save the family honor. But it isn't until he meets Riley Fontaine, an actress of questionable reputation, that he realizes just how much a sacrifice it will be.<br />Riley's theatre troupe owes the earl a large sum of money, and she's prepared to pay part of it back by working with his three out-of-control nieces in order to prepare them for marriage. (The idea of hiring an actress to train young women is an unlikely scenario in this period, but I'm willing to suspend belief because this book is just SO MUCH FUN!)<br />Mason's courtship of the heiress goes rather slowly, because he finds himself constantly distracted by the beautiful, seductive, and talented Madame Fontaine. He discovers that not only is she not what she seems, but it appears that someone is trying to kill her. At this point, the heiress thing gets put on the back burner as Mason determinedly installs her in his home for protection while he sets about trying to discover the killer.<br />Riley never thought she would fall for a college professor, but after the fact, she can't bear the thought of losing him to the heiress. She herself went through some very tough times after being abandoned by her mother and sold on the streets of Paris, but somehow she always found a way to survive without selling herself or her integrity. But Mason has to put the family honor first...or does he?<br />A truly riveting read for any fan of historical romance...especially if you like a touch of humor applied liberally to the sexual tension. The final scene had me choking with laughter. If only every book were as entertaining as this one!	2000-11-26
US	52928593	R13Q6I7FP40TQS	0821767232	902213848	By Way of a Wager (Zebra Regency Romance)	Books	5	10	10	N	N	The Lady Cassandra is in desperate need of a fairy godmother	Her brother has been presumed dead and the heir to his title has moved in lock, stock, and barrel to claim his inheritance. Unfortunately, the title comes without the necessary money to maintain it, so the unscrupulous new earl contrives to force Cassandra to marry him so that he can control her forty thousand pound dowry. Cassandra, however, would rather be dead than marry this usurper...and unfortunately, she soon finds herself thrown out in the middle of a rainstorm with no money and no place to go.<br />The Duke of Wyndham finds a muddy waif on the road and discovers that she is none other than an older version of the young maiden who charmed him several years ago. He finds himself willing to marry her not only to salvage her reputation, but also to love and protect her for the rest of her life. But first he must find out the truth about her missing brother and get revenge on the nasty cousin who has treated her so abominably.<br />This is an enthralling &quot;Cinderella-type&quot; love story with memorable characters and a satisfying ending, but I have to say that the &quot;wager&quot; plays almost no part in the story and, in my opinion, does not deserve such a prominent place in the title. This small defect does not take away from the story, however. In spite of all the circumstances against her, Cassandra refuses to give up hope that the situation will be rectified, and, indeed, plays a pivotal, if risky, part in defeating the villains. You'll love it!	2000-11-25
US	52928593	RMGLIMW9DQZHW	0380811987	373698911	Rules of Engagement (Governess Brides, Book 2)	Books	5	7	7	N	Y	How can he possibly be attracted to the governess???	The earl of Kerrich was careful to employ only an unattractive, strict governess who wouldn't try to entrap him into marriage. When his grandfather seems to see her differently, Devon finds himself looking at her with a critical eye. Is she REALLY as old as she pretends to be? Is her astonishing figure the result of tight corsets? Could he really be attracted to such an odd character? No, his grandfather must be getting senile. <br />Miss Pamela Lockhart of the Distinguished Academy of Governesses has no wish to attract a man. She saw what loving a man with a roving eye was like with her own mother and father's disastrous marriage. Although society frowned on single women at the time, she is determined to make her own in life rather than become the chattel of some faithless man.<br />But she has sadly underestimated the effect that being with an attractive man could have on her resolution, especially when that man shows himself to be a loving father for a penniless orphan. It would be enough to turn any woman's head, and Pamela has not succeeded in completely eradicating her natural woman's desire to have a husband and family. Perhaps it is time to move on to a new position.<br />And now, ironically, the earl of Kerrich finds himself fighting an uphill battle to win the hand of the governess he chose specifically for her unattractive qualities. How can he get through her ironclad defenses?<br />One of Christina Dodd's best! I heartily recommend this book to anyone who enjoys a good romance with a healthy dose of humor thrown in!	2000-11-25
US	52928593	R1O8S8YN8AKRA3	0821766759	479323354	Lord Langdon's Tutor (Zebra Regency Romance)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Clarissa refuses to be sold to the highest bidder.	Lady Clarissa is determined to marry for love or not at all. Unfortunately, her father has promised her to a young lord in the market for a wife only to lend more respectability to his career in the House of Lords. Her refusal to his arrogant proposal makes him angry, but he knows that she is the one who faces the most serious consequences. When her father finds out, he will certainly send her to her crotchety aunt in the country as an unpaid companion. So perhaps she will consent to a pretend courtship to help him learn how to properly court a woman in an attempt to stave off her father's anger for awhile until she can make plans on her own, such as escaping to Canada with her former governess.<br />Although the plot is predictable and the hero a little slow to realize his true feelings, this is an enjoyable story with delightful characters that I heartily recommend for any Regency lover.	2000-11-25
US	52928593	R2758P0IDY1O0	0821767216	793172329	Lady Diana's Daring Deed (Zebra Regency Romance)	Books	3	5	7	N	N	To call Lady Diana a hoyden is an understatement!	Diana and her twin brother Trevor both have large fortunes, but it is all under the control of a strict guardian. Trevor has fallen in love, but his beloved's papa prefers to sell her for a hundred thousand pounds to an old man rather than wait until Trevor comes of age. Desperately trying to raise the money through gambling, Trevor ends up heavily in debt to a notorious gamester. Diana contrives to keep Trevor away from the gaming table while she dresses up in his clothes to try to win the money back.<br />The embittered Jack Melville finds himself strangely drawn to the naive young stripling. Will the young man wager his twin sister's hand in marriage for a chance to win enough money to &quot;buy&quot; a bride? Perhaps he should be taught a lesson. And so &quot;Trevor&quot; is allowed to win back &quot;his&quot; money and much more. . . before Jack wins it all back and then suggests a way for &quot;him&quot; to win it all back...by wagering the hand of &quot;his sister&quot; in marriage.<br />Of course, Jack's intention is only to teach the young man a lesson, not to actually marry the sister. However, in the end, the one who learns the lesson is HIM, as he finds himself falling under the spell of the lively young lady who for some reason seems very familiar to him....<br />Although an enjoyable little story, I have a few qualms about recommending it. (1) Lady Diana's actions are far too bold and hoydenish for a Regency. (2) Jack Melville takes far too long to realize the one who lost the bet was actually Lady Diana in disguise. (3) Why would he suggest a bet that would cost him a huge sum of money either way? He is not portrayed as a philanthropist, after all! (4) Melville IS right about one thing: Trevor IS too young for marriage, and, in fact, seems more infatuated than in love...with a healthy dose of chivalry thrown in, as he cannot stand to see the young lady callously sold to an old man. (5) The strict guardian should have known better than to let their indulgent aunt raise them so liberally!	2000-11-25
US	52928593	R3QG60T8TLN7E7	0451201701	519350349	A Lady of Letters	Books	5	15	15	N	Y	She despises the frivolity and superficiality of Society.	Lady Augusta hides her bluestocking tendencies by writing political pamphlets under a pseudonnym. Bored and disgusted by his depraved lifestyle, Lord Sheffield begins a correspondence with the scholarly &quot;Firebrand,&quot; which leads him to take an interest in political and social matters. At the same time, he finds himself constantly in the sphere of Lady Augusta, the sister of a friend, who despises him for his dissolute habits. Lord Sheffield, wondering why he should even care about her opinion, much less be hurt by it, finds himself constantly seeking her company, especially after he discovers that she is involved in some deadly intrigue.<br />When Augusta discovers that the &quot;kindred soul&quot; who has been writing to her is none other than Lord Sheffield, she knows that she must terminate the friendship on both levels....because she has fallen in love with him in spite of the fact that logic tells her that he could never love a bluestocking antidote like her...in a million years.<br />As intelligent as Augusta is, she has no idea how attractive she is, especially to the one man she has most vilified, insulted, and spilled punch on. Lord Sheffield's charm with the ladies is legendary, and yet, he despairs of ever winning the love of the unique lady who has captured his heart.<br />A truly riveting story that will leave you in tears of joy. One of the best Regencies I've EVER read!	2000-11-10
US	52928593	R1C8UUEW0LZKWQ	0821766074	567421019	Lady Serena's Surrender (Zebra Regency Romance)	Books	4	7	7	N	N	An abused daughter learns to trust her honorable husband.	After the cruelty of her father and brothers, Serena's distrust of men can certainly be understood, even by her new husband, who married her to comply with the deathbed wish of his older brother. He agrees not to consummate the marriage so that Serena, on gaining her majority, will be able to get an annulment and manage her own inheritance. Of course, he knows that the annulment is unlikely ever to take place because of legal complications, but he hopes that in the few months remaining she will change her mind and agree to remain his wife.<br />But Serena is a tough cookie. The misery she has endured from her own family members makes her unlikely to easily trust a stranger. However, Ian is a patient and gentle man, as interested in helping the less fortunate (on his part, a school for lower-class boys) as Serena is (on her part, a desire to found an institution for mistreated women). He realizes much sooner than she does that they are made for each other. But he does not know if the bitterness in her heart from the past will ever melt into love for him.<br />I found this a very enjoyable, if not unflawed, Regency love story. The mistakes with characters' names, the lack of closure on the matter of Serena's father's previous marriage, the constant &quot;are you not&quot; at the end of statements, the lack of clarity about what Ian's brother actually wanted when he made his deathbed statement--all of these managed to leave me with a sense of frustration at the end, which is why it doesn't get five stars from me.<br />But you can be sure I will read the tales remaining in Savery's &quot;Six&quot; series (in fact, I have already read the ones taking place before and after this one), primarily because I find them overall delightful romances and secondarily because of my decidedly curious nature....	2000-11-09
US	52928593	R208KVKEQSJUZM	0821766996	850456168	The Fairy Tale Bride (Once upon a Wedding)	Books	5	142	150	N	Y	A scandalous secret comes between a duke and his new duchess	The Duke of Kerstone had planned on offering for Miranda Fenster five years ago...until his mother revealed a scandalous secret that made him determined to remain childless.<br />Then their paths crossed again, and he found himself offering to marry her after all in an effort to protect her reputation. He was looking forward to the joys of married life...until his mother reminded him of the family secret and the importance of not continuing the family line. Now he found himself living a tortured existence...denying his own desire to consummate his marriage and trying to explain his decision to his loving and eager new wife.<br />Miranda is determined to get past her husband's defenses, although she doesn't know exactly what the problem is. She does know, however, that her mother-in-law is the key to the solution. Miranda, alway a strong believer in the happy-ever-after ending, must somehow convince the Dowager Duchess to tell the truth and free her son from the bitterness that controls him. But what if--in this case--the truth only makes the situation more hopeless?<br />One of the most thrilling romances I have read recently, The Fairy Tale Bride will keep you turning the pages in eager anticipation. I am also eagerly anticipating the sequels that must surely be planned to relate the marriages of Miranda's many deserving siblings.	2000-11-01
US	52928593	R1R91PLRB8LH8H	0821766945	424634015	His Scandalous Duchess (Zebra Historical Romance)	Books	5	56	57	N	Y	A Fallen Woman refuses a duke's offer of marriage.	Althea Wintergreen is used to being treated as a social outcast. She really doesn't care what Society thinks of her--all she wants is to be a good mother to her daughter Effie and to continue tinkering with her inventions. But when the handsome and wealthy Duke of Treherne offers to marry her, she suggests being his mistress instead. After all, he doesn't deserve the notoriety that would come with marrying a Scandalous Woman like her.<br />The Duke of Treherne needs a wife in order to set up his nursery. He wants Althea. He knows she is not what she seems, but something is preventing her from confiding in him. Society's strictures don't mean a thing to him; after all, his own mother ran off with an actor and deserted her family when he was eight, and his father died in a duel over his longtime mistress when he was twelve. But Althea won't even consider his proposal. . . until someone suddenly tries to kidnap Effie. Now Althea desperately needs his help to protect her beloved daughter from harm.<br />This book reminds me of Amanda Quick at her best: an intelligent, sensible, independent heroine with an honorable, determined, protective hero...and a mystery to be solved before everyone can live happily ever after. I just couldn't stop reading!<br />To the publisher: PLEASE don't print so close to the inner edge. Some pages were nearly impossible to read, and when I was done the spine was practically ruined. . .not a good thing when you want to keep a book to read over and over again.	2000-10-30
US	52928593	R1D2C02K1MO8NP	0373511175	303628172	Scandal And Miss Smith	Books	5	0	0	N	Y	Phoebe's past makes her ineligible to be Sebastian's wife.	But the attraction between the governess and her employer is so strong that Phoebe cannot rule out the possibility of becoming his mistress. Half a loaf of bread is certainly better than none at all, and Phoebe knows that he would never abandon her.<br />However, before such a decision can be made, there are many family problems to be resolved. For example, the nephew involved in a duel after being labeled a cheater at cards. The niece who wants to be an actress. The cousin who wants to marry an ineligible poet. The aunt who despises him because of a past scandal. And then there is the crazy man scheming to win Phoebe away from her employer because he thinks she's someone else.<br />A truly marvelous Regency with strong characters and riveting sexual tension, combined with a liberal touch of humor that will keep you alternately crying and laughing. You can't go wrong with this one.	2000-10-29
US	52928593	R13P3534XSZI8Q	0373511167	957833989	Serena (Readers Choice)	Books	5	3	4	N	Y	True love emerges as a long-ago tragedy is put to rest.	Serena Calvert wants only to assure her young niece's future with a good marriage. She is too old and set in her ways to be suited to marriage. Or so she thinks before she meets James. <br />Knowing each other only as &quot;Serena&quot; and &quot;James,&quot; the two become friends, spending hours in each other's company exploring the Surrey countryside. Each begins to feel stirrings of an emotion that goes far beyond that of friendship. Until James realizes that Serena is the woman he has vowed to destroy. . . the woman who caused his brother's death. <br />Serena knows only that James publically snubbed her at a ball and that someone has, inconceivably, contrived to ruin her reputation and her life. How could she NOT believe that James is behind it all? Especially after she learns that James has maliciously foreclosed on the property she has fought so hard to save. . . her only home.<br />A compelling romance that kept me turning the pages. Serena is a delightful switch from all those young, silly heroines ready to fall into the hero's arms from the first chapter. The fact that their love was tested and found true BEFORE the wedding ceremony makes this a truly credible &quot;happy ever after&quot; love story.	2000-10-28
US	52928593	R3JBBGU4RQWS2	0451200705	648899767	A Prudent Match (Signet Regency Romance)	Books	4	7	7	N	Y	Can theirs ever be more than a marriage of convenience?	Prudence knew that William married her for the money she inherited from  her former fiance, but she hoped that once they got to know each other,  their marriage would be more than just &quot;convenient.&quot; After being  neglected so long by her former fiance, she had no intention of allowing  her new husband to relegate her to the country while he enjoyed the  pleasures of London.<br />William's feelings for his wife were deeper than he  let on; he had been attracted to her years ago and was disappointed to hear  of her engagement. Now he was married to her and desperately wanted to  consummate the marriage, but his passion frightened her. He couldn't just  force himself on her. Just a little patience, he kept telling himself.  But  for how long?<br />Prudence's &quot;pure sensibilities&quot; go on for a bit  too long; otherwise, I would have awarded five stars to this enjoyable,  well-written Regency treat.	2000-09-03
US	52928593	R3IPLLTDZO2ELS	0505523949	500522983	Blue-Eyed Bandit (Timeswept Series)	Books	4	5	5	N	Y	The sexiest virgin hero ever!	Emily Morgan goes back in time to try to warn a Civil War hero to change his course to avoid being hung as a criminal. Of course, Darian Woodward's  sense of honor would never allow him to abandon his mission to clear his  name, and for some reason, Darian just seems to get himself deeper and  deeper in trouble.<br />But he can't avoid his feelings for the woman of the  future who refuses to wear decent clothing. And although she knows the  future is uncertain, Emily can't resist the allure of the most honorable  man she has ever met...especially since he's the spittin' image of her  former husband!<br />This is an engrossing story with memorable characters and  an unusual plot. The only reason I don't give it five stars is that I  thought the ending was a bit too pat to be believable...although I'm not  sure that time travel romances are meant to be realistic....!	2000-09-03
US	52928593	R3ABW3VP1XHZCB	0821767402	102929173	AN Intimate Arrangement (Zebra Regency Romance)	Books	4	8	9	N	N	He bought a house...that already has an owner.	Finally, a Regency with a cover that shows the artist read the book first!  So many of them have the same old generic-type covers, sometimes with  characters that don't begin to resemble those described in the  book!<br />Nineteen-year-old Marianna is responsible for her young brother and  their old nurse. She has almost no money and only a small tenant cottage  until her great uncle gives her house to live in. Not just any house, but a  mansion! Marianna is ecstatic until she realizes that the house hasn't been  lived in for some time and is in need of a great deal of maintenance. If  that's not bad enough, she finds a strange man in her house in the middle  of the night...a man who claims that he has purchased the house from her  great uncle's brother!<br />Not a terribly original plot, but still a very  enjoyable afternoon's read. One of the better Regencies I've come across  recently.	2000-09-03
US	52928593	R2MNZRPPFEO8SB	0380805707	446453224	A Secret Love (Cynster Novels)	Books	5	1	2	N	Y	Another deserving Cynster bites the dust....	Alathea needs Rupert (aka Gabriel) to help her save her family from  financial ruin, but she cannot divulge her identity to him; thus, she  approaches him in secret as a widowed countess, veiled in black. Intrigued  and determined to seduce the alluring countess, Gabriel agrees to help her,  in exchange for a kiss each time they meet. Well, a Cynster kiss is far  from a peck on the cheek, and soon the pair find themselves intimately  involved as they get closer and closer to the villain they seek. When  Gabriel discovers her true identity and offers to marry her, Alathea firmly  refuses to take advantage of his chivalry. Chasing away her other suitors  doesn't make her change her mind, since she has determined to remain a  spinster. How can Gabriel convince her to become his wife? <br />Stephanie  Laurens has created another spectacular Cynster romance that keeps the  spellbound reader glued to the pages!	2000-08-22
US	52928593	R3T8WTPDSLFEBG	0821766546	684951327	The Scotsman and the Spinster (Zebra Regency Romance)	Books	5	17	17	N	N	An army sergeant inherits a title and a &quot;governess.&quot;	Ross MacCailan wants nothing to do with the title and estates inherited  from his uncle, with whom he had quarreled bitterly 15 years ago before  joining the army as a common foot soldier. However, it turns out that he  must accept the title and use his influence to help Wellington defeat his  political enemies back home in England.<br />That is bad enough, certainly,  but he is outraged when he is assigned a &quot;governess&quot; to help him  with the social graces.<br />Adalaide Terrington has accepted her spinster  status and has taken on the responsibility of tutoring young men in need of  assistance in the area of etiquette and manners. The  army-sergeant-turned-viscount is no young stripling to be easily molded,  however, and Adalaide finds herself in the position of wanting more than  respect from her headstrong pupil.<br />A truly excellent Regency by one of my  favorite authors; however, I have a bone to pick with publishers who try to  fool us by imposing pseudonyms on their authors. Those of us who are  diehard Regency fans and who buy just about every one available are NOT  IMPRESSED by such tactics, merely annoyed that our intelligence and loyalty  are so underestimated.	2000-08-21
US	52928593	R2AH6TCWTHHZF9	0449001806	172997404	The Innocent	Books	4	6	9	N	Y	Not one of her best, but still a compelling romance...	Yes, she was prepared to be a Bride of Christ, but Eleanore's goodness is  just not believable. I mean, would anyone but the Virgin Mary voluntarily  put herself to work in the household of the man who kidnapped her?<br />But I  still found myself glued to the pages as I do with just about all of  Small's novels, and there was something about the purity of the love  between the hero and heroine that tugged at my heartstrings. What a  refreshing change to find a medieval (not my favorite category) romance  where the primary characters love each other so much they don't even  consider being unfaithful! Bertrice Small still has the magic touch with  this reader!	2000-08-21
US	52928593	R439W3O2P19IZ	0821766716	767721598	Lord Nightingale's Debut (Zebra Regency Romance)	Books	3	2	4	N	N	The impoverished lord receives an unusual bequest...	Nicholas is a farmer who just happens to be an earl...an impoverished earl  who has been working hard for years to pay off the debts of his father and  make his estates profitable again. He cannot even think of marriage...until  his aunt leaves him a fortune in her will...provided he can teach her  parrot to sing again!<br />Serendipity and her sister have been left penniless  and homeless as their father's title and estates have gone to a distant  cousin, who, far from being willing to help them, has designs on Sera's  virtue. Teaching a parrot to sing may be a strange occupation, but it  certainly beats the other alternatives!<br />The plot is a little far-fetched  and the romance not very convincing, but I find this otherwise to be a very  pleasant little story.  I do find myself look forward to the next  installment of Lord Nightingale's adventures.	2000-08-15
US	52928593	R2WI6O3XFM16CG	0451200365	475233324	The Grand Hotel	Books	4	3	5	N	N	Five charming romances spring to life at the Grand Hotel.	Although I'm not terribly found of anthologies because the brevity of the  format inevitably results in shallow, partially-drawn characters, I found  myself enjoying this one more than most. Why? Mostly because it included  the romances of some ordinary people, not just those who are rich and  titled. Also because it was (for the most part) the heroes who fell in love  first and &quot;loved from afar,&quot; instead of the women. And because  some of the characters and events were intertwined in other stories and  gave the impression of a single book instead of an anthology by five  different authors. I'd like to see more anthologies like this one!	2000-08-13
US	52928593	R2DQQNNXXU9FF2	0380809087	970567738	The Defiant One	Books	5	29	29	N	N	A sizzling sequel to the de Montforte family saga	Both the bride and the groom had vowed never to marry, but a few drops of  an aphrodisiac invented by Andrew left Celsie thoroughly compromised (or  was it the other way around?) and marriage was the only option. Although  Andrew found himself beginning to like the idea of being married to Celsie,  he knew that she would despise him when she found out the truth about him.  Celsie found herself falling in love with her handsome new husband, but  knew that whatever horrible secret he was keeping from her had the  potential to destroy their marriage.<br />Although this is the first book I  have read by Danelle Harmon, it is apparently the third part of a series of  romances involving the de Montforte family and their matchmaking duke of a  brother, Lucien. (Reminds me a great deal of the Malloren family saga by Jo  Beverley.) This book had me so spellbound I could hardly put it down! I'll  be looking for more books (past and future) by this talented author!	2000-08-13
US	52928593	R135W9SUX5683D	0515128341	151203078	Miscalculations	Books	4	2	2	N	N	The viscount has far too much boyish charm for his own good.	Jane Douglas reluctantly agrees to help her employer's wastrel son learn  to manage his inheritance. The son, equally reluctant to receive advice  from a woman, tries to solve his own problems by way of foolish wagers that  only get him deeper in debt. As they get to know each other, a romance  develops between Jane and Lucien. But how can a logical, intelligent woman  like Jane ally herself to a &quot;degenerate&quot; aristocrat? Or is she  simply being naive and prudish and altogether too particular?<br />My primary  criticism is the lack of depth of the secondary characters and the reliance  on the &quot;love at first sight&quot; that just didn't seem convincing to  me. But aside from this flaw, I found this book very enjoyable. It's nice  to see a strong, intelligent woman making her own decisions in spite of the  prevailing societal prejudice of the time, and a hero who--although far  from being a wimp--is willing to grow and mature under her guidance.	2000-08-11
US	52928593	R13XJVCTC0S3YS	0380804190	709286401	On a Long Ago Night	Books	5	5	7	N	Y	Searing hot pirate romance!	Eight years ago, Honoria agreed to give her innocence to a handsome pirate in exchange for the rescue of her fiancé, who promptly ditched her as damaged goods upon their return.<br />Since then, Honoria has lived a secluded  life with her indulgent father and her books, determined never to trust a  man again...until her father decides she must marry and invites both her  former fiancé (Derrick Russell) and the son of a good friend of his (James  Marbury) to pay court to his daughter.<br />Honoria despises the man who  contemptibly jilted her, but Derrick Russell has run through his fortune  and is determined to win her back. The real shock, however, is that James  Marbury turns out to be the corsair who seduced her and turned her into a  passionate wanton eight years ago!<br />Warning: this book is so hot it  scorches! I couldn't stop until I had read all the way to the end.  Honoria's strength of character and desire for independence and James'  determination to win her for his wife, together with the steamy passion  that resulted from nearly every meeting, kept me turning the pages in  anticipation. Bravo to Ms. Sizemore for another winner!	2000-05-27
US	52928593	RYU4I3A5FURUI	0821766279	264692224	The Moonlight Wish (Zebra Regency Romance)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	A lady seeks to earn her independence through gambling.	Lady Edwina Langston has been under her grandfather's thumb all her life. When he informs her that she must marry his heir, The Viscount Ashtead, or forfeit her inheritance, she flees her home in a fit of anger.<br />Of course,  she really doesn't have anywhere to go and is getting soaked in a  rainstorm, but fortunately her fairy godmother, Lady Xanthe Simms, turns up  and offers her the opportunity to gain her independence.  She will stay in  Lady Xanthe's magical home in Brighton and have eight weeks to find a way  to earn the ten thousand pounds required to finance a small cottage and a  companion, thereby avoiding the necessity of being under any man's thumb  again.<br />The only way Edwina can think of to respectably earn ten thousand  pounds in eight weeks is to win at cards. However, she needs someone to  introduce her to the &quot;right&quot; gentlemen--those who have money to  lose and who are willing to play for high stakes--and her rejected suitor,  Lord Ashtead, comes to her aid.<br />As Edwina's pile of winnings grows, she  and Lord Ashtead find themselves more and more attracted to each other. But  it looks hopeless for them, because Edwina is too stubborn to give in to  her grandfather's wishes, and Lord Ashtead knows she will never believe  that his desire to marry her is motivated by anything other than the  promise of a large inheritance from her grandfather.<br />My favorite Regency  heroines are strong, independent women determined to make their own way in  the world in spite of the odds against them. Lady Edwina is a wonderful  Regency heroine and the Viscount Ashtead a dashing hero. I am not crazy  about fairy godmothers and other magical elements in Regencies, but if  that's not a problem with you, this one may well be worth five stars.	2000-05-27
US	52928593	R2IQJBSJEYXEY4	0451200454	710057943	The Nabob's Daughter	Books	5	1	1	N	Y	A mischief-making miss takes the ton by storm.	Jamaican by birth, Anjalie is a wealthy heiress visiting relatives in London. After her success in the ton, she could easily make an advantageous marriage, but, scornful of the fortune-hunting beaus who surround her and  the superficial lifestyle of the English upper class, she wants only to  return to life in Jamaica.<br />The oh-so-proper Lord Chance is scandalized by  Anjalie's plain speaking and shocking attitudes. She should not even KNOW  about the seamier side of life, let alone go around rescuing lightskirts  from rakes and talking about drunken pirates!<br />But, oddly enough, he  finds himself drawn to her outspoken manner and lack of pretension. For the  first time in his life he begins to question his own lifestyle and beliefs.  But when he believes that she encouraged his sister to run away to Jamaica  to join her disgraced &quot;fianc&eacute;,&quot; he is ready to wring her neck. It  is only when Anjalie and the earl are shipwrecked in the wilds of Jamaica  that the two begin to truly understand and appreciate each other.<br />Since  Regencies with headstrong, independent heroines have always appealed to me,  I found myself glued to the pages of &quot;The Nabob's Daughter.&quot; In  the beginning, the hero seemed a bit stuffy and overly critical, but the  trek through the jungle caused him to realize the relative worthlessness of  most of the London society's strictures and appreciate the more important  things in life. And although life with Anjalie would never be peaceful, it  is obvious that it could never be boring!	2000-05-27
US	52928593	R2IRSSYOERLU7W	0821766023	437784258	Innocent Betrayal (Zebra Splendor Historical Romance)	Books	5	13	14	N	Y	A story of forced marriage and abandonment...	Lady Emily desperately wanted to go to America to be with her brother Christopher, but her stuffy older brother Ian wouldn't hear of it, stating that she was too spoiled and coddled to make it in the wilderness of the  New World. Finally, he agreed that if she could succeed as a maid in his  household for three weeks, he would arrange for the trip.<br />So it was that  when his friend Noah Sandleton came to visit, he was introduced to Emily  the maid. He had his reasons for suspecting that she was not what she  seemed, but it came as quite a surprise that she was actually a gently-born  lady and the sister of his friend!<br />Unfortunately, by that time, he had  already seduced her and was facing a very angry former friend who was  insisting that he marry--then abandon--his compromised little sister.  <br />Emily knew only that her husband deserted her the night of their  wedding. She had no idea that he regretted their separation just as much as  she...nor that their lives were in danger from a malevolent force lurking  in the background.<br />It came as a surprise that this is the work of a brand  new novelist, not only because of the marvelous writing, but also because  there were hints of a previous story involving the older brother Ian and  his wife, Augusta. If there is indeed a &quot;prequel&quot; or a sequel  (perhaps involving the other brother), you can be sure I will be first in  line!	2000-05-21
US	52928593	RLQ989PVL9QN	0451198875	204208254	The Barbarian Earl	Books	5	3	5	N	Y	A bitter earl plots the perfect revenge.	The Earl of Stratham blamed all his misfortunes on one woman--the noblewoman who scorned his suit years ago. With no legitimite offspring, the earl offers the most promising of his bastard sons the opportunity to  inherit his fortune and his title if he marries the daughter of the woman  who made him a laughingstock.<br />Liam is a charming devil whose smuggling  business has been broken up by the end of the Napoleonic wars. Although  tempted to throw the inheritance back in his contemptible father's face,  Liam discovers that he cannot turn away the opportunity to become one of  the richest men in England.<br />It makes it easier that the father of the  noblewoman in question--Lady Alexandra Henning--is in desperate financial  straits and cannot turn down the earl's offer to pay his debts and set up a  generous income in exchange for the honor of his daughter's hand in  marriage.<br />At first horrified at her father's intention to  &quot;sell&quot; her to pay his debts, Alexandra eventually reconciles  herself to the marriage. But Liam soon discovers that he wants his wife to  feel more than tolerance for him...and sets about trying to win her  affection.<br />However, at just the moment that Alexandra and Liam discover  their love for each other, Liam must tear himself away to rescue a dear  friend. During his absence, Alexandra is devastated by the discovery of the  real reason for their marriage. Will she ever be able to forgive him for  his duplicity?<br />A delightful Regency read! I especially enjoy the  appearance of characters from another of Nadine Miller's books, and the  daringly &quot;scandalous&quot; democratic attitudes displayed by these  very original members of the upper ten thousand.	2000-05-19
US	52928593	R2HTMP6I0U5OK2	0451407806	36208249	Something Wicked	Books	5	4	4	N	N	A female Malloren makes her bid for love.	Restless and bored with her life of endless socializing and meaningless repitition, Lady Elfled Malloren sets out for an adventure at the Vauxhall Gardens masquerade. Her daring costume attracts more than a few masked  males, and Elf finds herself &quot;rescued&quot; by Fortitude Ware, her  family's greatest enemy. Wearing a mask and pretending to be a French girl  called Lisette, Elf succeeds in disguising her true identity from Fort. She  has always felt drawn to this man, but something stops her from giving in  completely to her physical yearnings.<br />Fort finds himself strangely  intrigued by the lovely Lisette, and sets about persuading her to become  his mistress. When he discovers that she is in reality a member of the  family who seriously blighted his life, his anger knows no bounds.  It  seems very doubtful that he will ever be able to return Elf's powerful  love.<br />Another poignant and passionate installment of the Malloren family  saga, &quot;Something Wicked&quot; will not disappoint. I can't wait to get  my hands on the fourth book!	2000-05-19
US	52928593	RA44VBGY6XT40	0380767856	118302686	My Lady Notorious	Books	5	72	72	N	N	A fitting beginning for the Malloren saga!	Lady Chastity takes on the role of a highwayman and kidnaps a coach and its aristocratic occupant in order to rescue her widowed sister and baby nephew from their crazed father. But Cyn Malloren doesn't remain a captive  for long. A soldier recovering from a life-threatening illness, Cyn  impulsively offers to help the young &quot;Charles&quot; and his widowed  sister escape their pursuers. When the handsome reward offered for their  capture tightens the web around them, Cyn dons feminine apparel to throw  off the scent. The scene where Cyn (dressed as a lady) avoids detection by  engaging in a passionate liplock with Chastity (dressed as a man) is real  jewel!<br />The sexual tension between Chastity and Cyn is explosive, even  though Chastity doesn't know that Cyn is not fooled by her male apparel.  Cyn falls deeper and deeper in love as he tries to ferret out the truth of  Chastity's reputation and family secrets. Chastity knows that her unsavory  reputation makes her unsuitable to become the wife of a Malloren, so she  clings all the more closely to her bitter secrets. <br />Originally published  in 1993, this book is the first of a series of five (so far) dealing with  the Malloren family and its dictatorial head, Rothgar. Before reading the  highly-acclaimed fifth book, &quot;Devilish,&quot; I decided to acquire the  first four and read them in order.  (I do love books with recurring  characters!) If the other four books turn out to be as engrossing as this  one, I may not be able to get any sleep this week!	2000-05-17
US	52928593	R2CWC7N5FBLEGZ	0821765272	753735475	The Wicked Lady (Zebra Splendor Historical Romances)	Books	4	15	17	N	N	An incredible fairy tale romance	Kristen has grown up in the streets since the age of five, becoming a skillful pickpocket to provide for herself and her little brother. Then one day she has the good luck to be caught picking the pocket of Trevor  Claremont, the Duke of Chatsworth. It was good luck because, after she  accidentally shoots him in the shoulder, he promises not to turn her in to  the law as long as she agrees to become his wife.<br />Now this is where the  story begins to stretch one's credulity. Why would a wealthy duke need (or  want) to blackmail a THIEF to become his wife? Most dukes would be a lot  more concerned about a potential wife's breeding and background than this  one appears to be. His reasoning--that he needs a wife quickly to placate  his ailing grandmother--just doesn't ring true when the grandmother turns  out to be a cranky old woman whose complaints seem to amuse Trevor rather  than cause him to worry.<br />However, if you can ignore some of the mistakes  in logic and historical accuracy, you may find yourself enjoying the story.  (I always did like fairy tales as a child!) It is obvious that Trevor loves  Kristen; however, his own loveless childhood has taught him to distrust  people. The idea of a marriage bargain without involving love is his way of  avoiding the pain of the inevitable rejection. Kristen doesn't want to  admit to loving Trevor either, because she knows that he doesn't truly love  or even trust her. <br />The best part of the book is after their marriage as  the duke and his duchess explore their physical feelings for each other  and--together with her brother and the grumpy grandmother--begin to  function as the caring family that neither has had before. But a malevolent  force just around the corner will test their courage and determine their  destiny.	2000-05-14
US	52928593	R183P4GYIR2M99	0821748580	499361031	Tempting Fortune	Books	5	13	14	N	N	Another intriguing glimpse of the Malloren family!	Portia St. Claire has come to London with her brother to beg for assistance from a family friend. Her brother lost the family estate in a card game and they are desperately trying to get a loan from the Marquess  of Walgrave to cover the debt. Unfortunately, the earl is not in town after  all, and Portia must deal with her bored half-brother's determination to  resolve the situation by gambling away their remaining funds. It doesn't  take long for him to get in over his head with some unsavory characters,  who threaten him physically unless he agrees to pay the debt by allowing  them to take Portia to a brothel to be auctioned off to the highest  bidder.<br />Fortunately, Bryght Malloren, who has been intrigued by the  spirited Portia ever since she threatened to shoot him when he broke into  their lodgings to retrieve a letter, finds a way to rescue Portia from her  plight. Resigned to his fate, he sets about trying to help resolve her  problems and persuade her to marry him.<br />Portia, however attracted  physically to Bryght, cannot imagine anything worse than being married to a  gamester, and nothing Bryght says or does can convince her that he is not  addicted to gambling, especially after she discovers that the man who won  their estate is one of his best friends.<br />Tempting Fate is a worthy  successor to My Lady Notorious, the first in the five-book (so far!) series  about the Malloren family. If you like books with determined,  marriage-minded heroes and strong-willed heroines that are not too easily  won, you will LOVE this book.	2000-05-14
US	52928593	REE5WWCUKAYAH	0380767856	118302686	My Lady Notorious	Books	5	7	7	N	N	A great combination of sexual tension and humor!	Lady Chastity takes on the role of a highwayman and kidnaps a coach and its aristocratic occupant in order to rescue her widowed sister and baby  nephew from their crazed father. But Cyn Malloren doesn't remain a captive  for long. A soldier recovering from a life-threatening illness, Cyn  impulsively offers to help the young &quot;Charles&quot; and his widowed  sister escape their pursuers. When the handsome reward offered for their  capture tightens the web around them, Cyn dons feminine apparel to throw  off the scent. The scene where Cyn (dressed as a lady) avoids detection by  engaging in a passionate liplock with Chastity (dressed as a man) is real  jewel!<br />The sexual tension between Chastity and Cyn is explosive, even  though Chastity doesn't know that Cyn is not fooled by her male apparel.  Cyn falls deeper and deeper in love as he tries to ferret out the truth of  Chastity's reputation and family secrets. Chastity knows that her unsavory  reputation makes her unsuitable to become the wife of a Malloren, so she  clings all the more closely to her bitter secrets.<br />Although the book is  full of erotic images to seduce the senses, I would definitely NOT place it  in the Bertrice Small-Susan Johnson category, primarily because the heroine  is virtuous and does not have multiple sex partners. Although the orgy  scene is...well...very HOT, to say the least!<br />Originally published in  1993, this book is the first of a series of five (so far) dealing with the  Malloren family and its dictatorial head, Rothgar. Before reading the  highly-acclaimed fifth book, &quot;Devilish,&quot; I decided to acquire the  first four and read them in order.  (I do love books with recurring  characters!) If the other four books turn out to be as engrossing as this  one, I may not be able to get any sleep this week!	2000-05-14
US	52928593	R3DSL2SB4MZ6XN	0451199707	472703950	The Stone Maiden	Books	5	8	11	N	N	A fascinating glimpse of life in 12th century Scotland.	A knight of humble origins, Sebastien Le Bret is an ambitious man with a mission:  to find his young son and claim his son's aristocratic heritage in Brittany. It certainly isn't his idea to go to Scotland and rescue the  MacLaren clan by marrying their beautiful, young laird.<br />Alainna  MacLaren's clan has been nearly wiped out by a feud with another Highland  clan.  About to lose the protective spell of the magical Stone Maiden,  Alainna begs the king to send her a Celtic warrior to wed her, take her  name, and help her continue the MacLaren line.  She certainly did not  expect the king to send her a Norman (although Sebastien is technically  from Brittany, where the inhabitants are also descended from the Celts)  knight, and also one who planned to desert her as soon as he could to  settle with his son in Brittany.<br />But, oddly enough, the rest of MacLaren  clan heartily approves of the marriage. Sebastien begins to regret that his  responsibilities preclude him from making his home with them, especially as  he comes to admire the strength of character of his intended bride. But how  can he forsake his responsibility to his son?<br />On her part, Alainna  succumbs to Sebastien's charm in spite of her misgivings, but she fears  becoming too dependent on him because she knows he must leave her in the  end. <br />A charming romance, this book offers a fascinating glimpse of  day-to-day life in 12th century Scotland that will keep your attention  riveted to the story even if you're not a diehard medieval fan!	2000-05-05
US	52928593	R1B2H6CHO2C0O5	0061014338	673797347	The Challenge	Books	5	12	13	N	Y	A profligate lord vows to earn his chosen lady's trust.	Hathaway Wycoff has come to America to escape his meaningless life as a profligate and adulterous lord. When he first meets Lucy Stone, he thinks she is a prostitute.  But when he finds out the truth about the fair widow, he begins to wonder if he could ever be good enough to deserve her.<br />Lucy  Stone had married young and lived to regret it. She is drawn to the English  lord from the first, but past experience has taught her to be cautious.  Still, when she discovers that Lord Wycoffe had been a notorious womanizer  during his marriage, she is heartbroken. Because even though his first wife  is deceased, she would never be able to trust him to be a faithful husband.  Above all, she has to think of the best interests of her son, Jamie.<br />So  when her brother-in-law, Baron Hunt, invites her and her son to visit them  in England, Lucy jumps at the chance to escape from temptation. What a  surprise, then, to find Lord Wycoffe on the same freighter! <br />An older  gentleman (40+) and an adulterer, Hathaway Wycoffe is an unusual--but  surprisingly worthy--hero for a romance novel. He explains his reasons for  his past behavior, but doesn't use them as an excuse to avoid  responsibility. He demonstrates a great deal of humility and patience in  his attempt to clear his reputation and make himself worthy for his lady  love--although he has no guarantee that she will ever learn to trust  him.<br />Ah, Lucy is a very lucky woman indeed!<br />A sequel to &quot;The  Cad,&quot; and &quot;The Choice,&quot; this book continues the fascinating  saga of a delightful group of Regency-era characters.  I must admit I can't  wait for Rafe's and Drum's books to appear!  Be sure I will be first in  line!	2000-05-01
US	52928593	R1T0Z4YWZZMDNV	0061013927	968482117	The Choice	Books	5	26	29	N	Y	A romance you won't forget soon....	Damon Ryder felt the magic of Miss Gillian Giles from the first time he saw her. He didn't care that because of her humble beginnings she was ineligible to become a nobleman's wife. She was his soulmate, his other  half. But he was beginning to despair that he would ever convince HER of  that!<br />Gilly wanted desperately to believe him. But it was obvious that  she was a disappointment to his family. Although she had learned to look  and act like a lady, she was afraid she would never truly belong in that  world. And she worried that she would never love Damon as truly as he  deserved to be loved...because her first love would always take first place  in her heart, even though he didn't reciprocate.<br />Or did he?  The Earl of  Drummond never expected Gilly to turn into such a desirable woman. How  could he let her marry Damon Ryder when there was just a chance that she  might be the one for HIM?<br />A poignant tale of a woman learning about love  in its many forms, as well as her own value and purpose in life.  And a man  who learns to fight for the desire of his heart.  A real winner!<br />And,  considering the existence of several luscious potential heroes in this  book, I am eagerly looking foward to hearing more about these fascinating  characters in future sequels.	2000-04-30
US	52928593	R38VTCR64E6I8H	0671775251	906716141	A Merry Chase (Sonnet Books)	Books	5	6	7	N	Y	Better titled: &quot;How NOT to Win a Woman!&quot;	Royce Van Cleef scoffs at his friends for being wimps in their dealings with women and courtship. HE himself would never go about winning a woman in such a hamhanded manner! One should simply go about the business in a logical manner and not let emotions cloud the issue. The conversation  results in a wager:  Royce will use his system of logic to court and win a  woman of his friends' choosing. The woman they choose--Lady Laurel  Simmons--is beautiful and charming and fit in every way to become a earl's  wife...except that she has vowed never to marry!<br />Lady Laurel's previous  experience with a fortune hunter has hardened her heart against the entire  male sex. But even her disillusioned heart begins to melt when confronted  with the handsome Lord Tewkbury's charm and persistence...until she learns  about the wager and realizes that he is just another lying deceiver. That's  when she ups the ante and begins a scheme of her own to bring down the  over-confident earl.<br />The plotting pair become so engrossed in their  romantic fencing match that they almost don't realize that they have fallen  in love in spite of all of their precautions...until a serious of  malevolent incidents threaten Laurel's life and it becomes obvious that  someone is trying to forestall a match between them.<br />An enthralling tale  of unexpected love that at the same time touches the reader's heart and  tickles her funnybone...my favorite kind of historical romance!	2000-04-29
US	52928593	R38ZS0X1L7ZG5C	0451200055	482749611	Breach of Promise	Books	3	15	17	N	Y	An earl and his landlady have been disappointed in love.	Susan Fairford's husband kissed his bride and then absconded with her fortune, leaving her only a manor home she can't afford to maintain and a meager honey business.<br />On the morning of his wedding, Philip, Marquis of Chalmondeley,found his fiancée in bed with his brother, and blindly took  off on his horse, ending up in the village of Chipping Campden, where he  discovers that &quot;Mrs. Stott&quot; has a home to lease. &quot;Mrs.  Stott&quot; seems to prefer to be called &quot;Miss Fairford,&quot; a  situation which puzzles and intrigues him. He makes arrangements to lease  the house for a short time, giving his name as Philip Stone, as he has no  desire to be found by either his brother or his former fiancée.<br />An  immediate attraction springs up between the bachelor and the beekeeper, but  their past sufferings make it difficult to trust each other. When Susan  discovers that Philip is being sued for breach of promise by his former  fiancée and that she is with child, she convinces him that he must do the  honorable thing and marry her after all. However, she does not know that  the child is his brother's!<br />What bothers me most about this story is the  timing. A disillusioned Philip runs away on his wedding day, and a week  later he's in love with his mysterious landlady! (Susan, at least, has had  sufficient time to recover from her travesty of a marriage.) In view of  this, it really stretches one's credulity when Philip agrees that he must  marry the former fiancée to give his brother's child a name. The traitorous  brother is a cardboard character,the only motivation given for his behavior  being resentment for being the second son.<br />Frankly, the constant  references to bees, honey, the word &quot;sweet,&quot; beetles, glowworms,  queens, honey house, honey jars, beehives, stinging...become annoying after  awhile. At first it's kind of cute, but too much of a good thing can make  one's stomach curdle.<br />If you like Regencies as much asI do, this one is  probably worth reading, but don't expect it to be easy going.	2000-04-27
US	52928593	R1Q22ER5RWBZGH	0821766082	772910822	That Scandalous Heiress (Zebra Regency Romance)	Books	3	4	10	N	N	An unmarried woman scandalizes the neighborhood living alone	Marianne McCord has been living as a companion to an elderly relative since her mother died.  Her maternal grandfather, a well-to-do military man, cast off his daughter after she bore an illegitimite daughter.  When  Marianne inherits an old manor house from a complete stranger, she jumps at  the chance to escape from the tyranny she has suffered all her life to  become her own mistress.<br />However, it is definitely NOT the thing for an  unmarried woman to set up housekeeping by herself without a chaperone.  The  manor house servants--such as they are--take off as soon as they find out  what she's planning to do.  Nobody in the village wants to work for her or  even speak with her in church...except a young lady with an illegitimite  child of her own who knows what it's like to be stigmatized.  So Hannah and  her son George come to work at Bibb Grange with Marianne.<br />But the roof  leaks like a sieve; yet the thatchers won't come anywhere near Bibb Grange.   What's a single woman to do?  Fortunately, Marianne has made the  acquaintance of the Viscount Jensen, whose grandfather founded and built  the village. And although Adam Jensen has a scandalous reputation of his  own to live down, as owner of the town, he has the power to persuade the  villagers to do business with her.<br />Marianne and Adam feel an immediate  attraction.  Marianne, however, is determined to fight it since she has no  desire to end up an unwed mother and it is obvious that Adam will never  make an illegitimite woman his vicountess. Although he considers making her  his mistress, Adam has no desire to become leg-shackled anytime soon.<br />But  their attention is soon side-tracked when a relative of the former owner  shows up hinting that the will making Marianne the owner of Bibb Grange  will be contested and that she might have to leave.  <br />I am pleased to see  a Regency woman with enough spunk to defy some of the ridiculous strictures  on women's freedom such the right to live alone.  A young lady who has  learned to live with the stigma of bastardy is just the sort of woman to  manage it.  However, the flaws in the story made it a chore to get through  at times. The romance between the two characters seems contrived and  unreal.  The &quot;mystery&quot; of the nocturnal intruders is too obvious.   A romance between two minor characters doesn't seem to fit into the rest  of the story.<br />In summary, I would recommend that the author concentrate  on the development of the romance itself and forget the armchair detective  stuff.  I love mysteries as well as the next person, but in a romance  novel, if the romance doesn't fly, the mystery falls flat.	2000-04-26
US	52928593	R1Y9FRBQMJ00A1	0671521438	11721394	Imagine	Books	5	10	11	N	N	Shipwreck survivors find love and a ready-made family.	Hank Wyatt and Maggie Smith are nearly complete opposites. Hank is an escaped convict who has never known a real family. Maggie grew up with every advantage offered by her prominent family and became a successful  attorney even before women were allowed to vote. Hank does what he has to  to survive. According to him, intelligent women like Maggie who can't cook  are practically useless; however, he CAN think of at least one use for the  gorgeous blond woman whose incessant THINKING is driving him nuts.... <br />It  is obvious that neither Maggie nor Hank knows the first thing about taking  care of the three children shipwrecked with them, including a toddler who  needs to be watched constantly. Although this clearly falls into  &quot;women's work,&quot; Hank is forced by their isolation to assume his  share of the responsibility. Gradually (and with the help of a genie whose  bottle was plucked from the sea), the exiles find themselves adapting to  their situation and becoming a family unit. <br />But what will happen when  they are rescued? As an attorney, Maggie cannot link her life to an escaped  felon. But could Hank bear to be sent back to the hellish prison he escaped  from? Since a single woman cannot adopt children, will the three orphans  end up in the same kind of orphanage Hank grew up in?<br />Jill Barnett's  magic strikes again. A most unlikely pair are forced together through  circumstances (fate) until they perceive in each other a kindred spirit  beneath the surface. And to discover at last that true love gives them the  strength to face an uncertain future....<br />Jill Barnett has a real gift for  combining humor and romance. One finds oneself chuckling all the way  through at the hilarious situations and witty dialogue. At the same time,  her characters seem to grow and evolve and mature as circumstances force  them to reevaluate the direction of their lives.  <br />Ms. Barnett can always  be counted on to provide an entertaining and uplifting read!	2000-04-26
US	52928593	R2NME412R7ZGPE	0671778684	865182781	Dreaming	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Richard, the Earle of Downe, is far from a hero type.	But Letty, the awkward, disaster-prone, girl-next-door, sees that the true Richard is indeed the knight-on-a-white charger that she's dreamed of all her life. The hard part is convincing Richard of that....<br />I don't normally care for reluctant heroes, nor heroines who wear their hearts on their sleeves.  But there's  something about Jill Barnett's writing that makes it acceptable--the  characters, the dialog, the hilarious situations, the suggestion that the  most unlikely dreams can actually come true in spite of all odds.<br />I  haven't read &quot;Bewitching&quot; either, but you can be sure I will as  soon as I get hold of a copy.  In fact, I'm going to be hunting as many of  Jill Barnett's backlist as I can find!	2000-04-21
US	52928593	R15DLG3H54MT4O	0451200047	816443213	Falling for Chloe (Signet Regency Romance)	Books	5	20	24	N	Y	A pair of childhood pals find themselves suddenly engaged!	A sudden rainstorm forces Gil and Chloe to spend the night in a nearby cottage.  Then someone places a notice of their engagement in the newspaper, and the pair must seek a way to end their engagement that will  not damage their reputations. Since Chloe wishes never to marry, she plans  to release Gil from his obligations. Gil, however, doesn't want to saddle  Chloe with the reputation of being a jilt.  Besides, when Chloe comes to  London with a new wardrobe and finds herself surrounded by admirers, Gil is  struck by the thought that she would be the perfect wife for him.  How  frustrating that she seems to be attracted to the same rakehell ladies' man  that is destroying his sister's marriage!<br />On her part, Chloe is beginning  to look at Gil as more than an old pal as well, but doesn't believe he  reciprocates, so she sets about trying to help her friend--Gil's somewhat  addlepated sister--save her marriage.  Tish has taken up with one of the  smoothest rakes around in an attempt to make her husband jealous, but only  succeeds in driving the two of them further apart.  In an attempt to prove  the rake's true character to her friend, Chloe flirts with him herself, but  finds herself way out of her league with this practiced seducer.<br />In the  end, it is up to Gil and Tish's very wise mother to set things to rights  with these two troubled pairs.  A delightful Regency romp for anyone with a  romantic soul.	2000-04-15
US	52928593	RLRHZXPMMN7FD	0451199545	96037502	The Duke's Double (Lords of Love)	Books	4	4	5	N	Y	The man she loved dragged Joanna's name through the mud.	After the death of her beloved second husband, Joanna Sherwood must return to England for the sake of her two young sons.  The last thing she wants to do is run into her spiteful first husband, who, at his mother's  instigation, had divorced her for adultery with his best friend and forced  both of them into exile.<br />But that was over six years ago, and Joanna's  successful second marriage had left her with two sons to raise, one of  which bore a striking resemblance to her first husband, the Duke of  Roxbury.  However, Joanna was told that the Duke never visited his estate  anymore, so she felt safe in making the decision to return to her second  husband's neighboring estate to raise her two boys.<br />Nevertheless, the  Duke happens to be home at the time and during the inevitable unpleasant  encounter with his ex-wife, he glimpses his son...a son he never knew he  had...a son who looks enough like him to be his double and yet bears the  name and title of his wife's second husband.<br />The Duke's ham-handed  attempts to gain access to his only son only succeed in frightening Joanna  into a hasty betrothal to a kindly lord who reminds her of her beloved  second husband and who promises to take her and her children with him to  his estates in Ireland.<br />The Duke realizes that he still loves Joanna and  finds that he is willing to forgive her for her past unfaithfulness.   However, the shoe, so to speak, is on the other foot.  Joanna was innocent  of wrongdoing, and she cannot forgive HIM until he admits it.<br />There are a  lot of issues involved in this potential reconciliation that unfortunately  remain unresolved at the end (like a final confrontation with the duke's  poisonous mother), but I found the romance quite enjoyable, if a little  intense for my taste.  The duke's betrayal and cruelty to Joanna made me  wonder how anyone could forgive such behavior, but I suppose one must  consider such factors as the manipulating mother and his extreme youth atthe time. <br />In any case, this very unusual romance between the Duke of  Roxbury and his former wife is definitely worth further exploration.	2000-04-15
US	52928593	R4JBUS20C1ESL	0553581392	616345801	Courting Trouble	Books	5	2	2	N	Y	The woman he wants for his wife wants to be a lawyer.	Winifred is beautiful, intelligent, self-assured, and determined to become a lawyer in spite of the fact that women aren't allowed to practice law. . . or even vote, for that matter.<br />Charles is a brilliant attorney who  desperately wants Winifred to be his wife.  Although he admires her  determination and intelligence, he secretly believes that women aren't cut  out to be lawyers and that Winifred will eventually give up her goal and be  satisfied with the role of wife and mother.<br />They disagree, however, on  the case of a woman accused of attempting to murder her husband with  poison.  Charles points out that evidence points directly at the accused  Mrs. Black.  Winifred contends that Mrs. Black will never receive a fair  trial because the jury judging her will contain no women.  Are men capable  of understanding the circumstances of women who have been beaten and  mistreated by their husbands, who are legally allowed to do so?  And with  divorce laws so strict, will an all-male jury understand the desperation  felt by so many women trapped in unhappy marriages?<br />Ms. Rose has written  a delightful tale of an independent, ambitious heroine and a hero who  learns to appreciate her talents and goals as well as her physical  attributes.  As this story is a sequel to &quot;A Hint of Mischief&quot;  (the love story of Winifred's sister Jennifer), you might want to pick that  one up as well.  (I highly recommend it!) And you can bet I'll be anxiously  awaiting the story of the youngest sister Penelope's romance in the future.	2000-04-15
US	52928593	R3RKJGS2QE62U4	0451198166	715949643	Miss Treadwell's Talent (Signet Regency Romance)	Books	5	24	25	N	Y	The earl despises Maylene...but can't stop kissing her!	Lord Hyatt's betrothed has disappeared, and her worried father insists on consulting the spirits about her whereabouts.  Of course, Lord Hyatt himself knows that the Treadwell women--the widowed Lady Tremont and her  spinster daughter--are money-grubbing charlatans, but he reluctantly agrees  to accompany his prospective father-in-law in order to keep him from being  fleeced.<br />Lady Tremont is a medium who conducts seances, and her  daughter's talent as a &quot;finder&quot; of lost things and people is  well-known.  Grateful clients contribute to the &quot;Fund for Psychical  Research,&quot; which is in reality the household account and manages to  keep the wolf from the door.  Although Maylene Treadwell's meticulous  &quot;research&quot; adds drama (not to mention credibility) to her  mother's performances, Lady Tremont's contacts to the spirit world seem to  be quite genuine indeed.<br />Of course, Lord Hyatt is neither impressed nor  convinced.  He only attends the seances on his prospective father-in-law's  behalf.  He could not possibly be attracted to the unconventional Miss  Treadwell.  No indeed!  It is only a coincidence that he is no longer  interested in his mistress and that he always seems to be apologizing for  taking liberties with Miss Treadwell's luscious lips.  Once his fiancée is  found, they will be married and he will have no reason to think of the  Treadwell women ever again.<br />On her part, Maylene is certain that the  young heiress ran away to escape a forced marriage to a boorish womanizer.   No intelligent woman in her right mind would ever wish to marry such a  disagreeable cur.  Well, not unless kissing happened to be involved, that  is.  Oddly enough, Maylene's common sense seems to desert her whenever she  finds herself in close proximity to the despised earl.<br />To this delightful  comedy, add a missing duke's heir, a silly young viscount who wants to  contact his beloved mother for advice on how to go one with his life, and aone-legged soldier with an uncertain future, not to mention a jealous  spirit guide named Max, and you end up with a hilarious romp into the  Regency world that is so wonderfully typical of Ms. Metzger's novels.<br />Do  yourself a favor and run, don't walk, to pick up this latest masterpiece by  Barbara Metzger.  You won't regret it!	2000-04-08
US	52928593	RK4QZF02595JV	0451199758	22075182	The Ramshackle Suitor	Books	5	12	12	N	N	An off-duty governess solves a mystery and finds true love.	Lucy Parnell has come to the Isle of Man in search of her sister's child.  Her unscrupulous stepbrother takes off with her belongings in an attempt to force her to come home with him and live under his thumb. Fortunately, by  this time she has made the acquaintance of Roderick Kempthorne and his  unforgettable friends--one of whom is the Earl of Steyne whose birthday is  being elaborately celebrated on the island.  Roderick--a charming,  fun-loving chap--is immediately drawn to Lucy, although she is five years  older than he.  Lucy is likewise attracted to him, but knows better than to  encourage his infatuation.  After all, what good can come of it?  However,  he is determined to help her on her quest to find her niece, and with a  nasty stepbrother hanging around, she needs all the help she can  get.<br />This is a truly charming love story with a surprise at the end that  I guarantee you won't forget soon.  Even the secondary characters come  alive in this story:  the grieving countess, her somewhat dotty stepson the  earl with his prominent nose, the bookish friend who falls in love with a  ghost.  <br />Nancy Butler has written a truly memorable Regency romance that  belongs on every Regency lover's &quot;keeper&quot; shelf.	2000-03-15
US	52928593	R2OEMJ3RTN19P3	0380811979	629386800	Rules of Surrender (Governess Brides, Book 1)	Books	5	12	15	N	N	A master governess finds her newest charge a true challenge!	Lady Charlotte Dalrumple has been known to have the magic touch with difficult debutantes.  So nobody is surprised when a lovely viscountess offers to pay her a large sum to whip her half-savage grandchildren into  shape.  But she is shocked speechless when she meets the children's father,  who has lived among the Bedouin most of his adult life. . . and then  discovers that the real reason she was brought there was to tutor HIM in  the social graces!<br />Unfortunately, Lord Wynter Ruskin seems to anticipate  her every move and find a thousand different reasons to proclaim the  Bedouin way of doing things more civilized than the British.  The corset,  for example.  He is determined to get Lady Charlotte out of hers, for he  has decided that she will be his next wife.<br />Lady Charlotte, however  attracted physically to Lord Ruskin, scorns the Bedouin idea that men do  not love their wives.  She fears being trapped in a loveless marriage and  taken for granted by her husband. . . as more of a possession than a mate.   Although it is obvious that Lord Ruskin does indeed love her--some men do  seem to have difficulty saying the words women want to hear--Lady Charlotte  is right to insist upon it.  It isn't until Lord Ruskin sees how much her  unhappiness upsets him that he realizes that he does indeed love her. . .  and that the Bedouin who taught him otherwise was a coward who never knew  what he missed.<br />Christina Dodd has done it again. . . a truly delicious  romance with a nice mixture of sensuality and humor.  You won't want to put  it down!	2000-03-13
US	52928593	RDX0L9Y6ITJDU	0671723413	298566409	Surrender a Dream	Books	5	2	2	N	N	A passionate love story that tickles the funny-bone!	Adelaide Amanda Pinkney owned the equipment and the buildings.  Montana Bartholomew Creed owned the land.  Each vowed to get rid of the other.  Amanda put plaster of paris in the biscuits.  Montana set his horse loose  in the house, knowing she was afraid of horses.  After many futile attempts  to discourage the other, in the end the only solution was for the two most  stubborn land claimants in history to compromise by becoming husband and  wife. But even then, Addie knew her husband wasn't telling her everything.   And until he did, she couldn't be completely secure in her marriage.<br />I  always have a rollicking great time when I read one of Jill Barnett's  books, and this one is no exception.  Just thinking of the scene where  Addie runs into a bakery wagon and spills baked goods all over the street  or the one where she hooks a wagon up to her bicycle to transport blocks of  ice brings a smile to my lips.  Watching the relationship blossom as  Montana teaches Addie to adapt to farm life and Addie teaches Montana the  true meaning of love is a very real pleasure.  You can't go wrong with this  well-written tale!	2000-02-26
US	52928593	R3ESHPEPNLMHBB	0821764837	118753601	My Lady Governess (Zebra Regency Romance)	Books	5	13	13	N	N	Elinor becomes a governess to avoid a forced marriage.	An heiress and the daughter of an earl, Elinor is the subject of a plot by her guardian to force her into a marriage with a depraved lord.  A former governess now retired helps her assume false credentials in order to obtain  a position as governess until her twenty-fifth birthday when she gains  control of her inheritance.  She finds it fairly easy to settle into her  humble role--but not so easy to control her emotions around her very  attractive employer, Lord Trenville.<br />Lord Trenville has never found it  difficult to follow the honorable Whitson family policy of not getting  involved with employees--until the very attractive governess arrives.   Except for her status, &quot;Miss Palmer&quot; is everything he ever wanted  in a mate.  But someone in his household is a French spy, and &quot;Miss  Palmer&quot; doesn't seem to be a typical governess.  Circumstantial  evidence--and a lack of other suspects--makes him wonder if she could  indeed be guilty of treason.  And if she were, would he risk his own  political position to save her?<br />A highly-recommended &quot;sweet&quot;  romance with just enough mystery to keep a reader glued to the pages.   Finally--a hero who is not a rake needing reforming--but an honorable,  vulnerable gentleman who needs a like-minded helpmeet and a mother for his  children.  Truly an enjoyable read!	2000-02-20
US	52928593	R2YVEHF3CD2YXD	0553577719	519473044	A Hint of Mischief	Books	5	2	2	N	Y	The Appleton sisters support themselves by holding seances.	Jennifer, the oldest, is the one who can charm a bird off its nest.  Winnifred, the intelligent one, studies law.  Penelope, the youngest, is breathtakingly beautiful. Left destitute when their father died, the three  sisters came to live with their impoverished aunt.  To keep food on the  table, and to save money so that Winifred can go to college and Penelope  can be launched into society, the three beautiful and spirited sisters  begin offering seances and tarot card readings to grieving society matrons  for money.  <br />One such customer is Mary Forester, who is so grateful she  pays them ten times the normal fee.  Her son Gabriel is outraged that his  mother is being deceived by charlatans and vows to shut them down.  Instead  of finding a bunch of gypsies and crystal balls, however, he finds three  very sweet young ladies who appear to be simply trying to maintain their  independence.  Although a bit of deception is involved in their activities,  the Appleton sisters are successful in helping others get over their  grieving and on with their lives.  He is particularly attracted to  Jennifer, although he is practically engaged to another woman who is much  more suited to be his wife.  But why is it that following their first  encounter, he seems to run into Jennifer just about everywhere he  goes?<br />Set in New York in the late 19th century, the story shows the  social and financial difficulties faced by women trying to eke out a living  independently.  Besides not being able to vote, women could not eat in  restaurants without a male escort, nor were they allowed to buy stock.  And  if they were not careful with their reputations, they would be ostracized  by an unforgiving society. Holding down a job (if indeed any jobs were  available for women) would put them beyond the pale.<br />A Hint of Mischief  is a very well-written, engaging story of love between two very different  people who nonetheless complement each other very nicely.  I highly  recommend itto anyone who enjoys a good romance with a touch of humor and  magic.	2000-02-19
US	52928593	RCL5FE07TYJR6	0553577727	397855035	A Case for Romance	Books	5	0	1	N	Y	A Sherlock Holmes devotee searches for her father's killer.	Emily Potter and Thomas Hall arrive in Denver on the same stagecoach.  Having inherited her estranged father's home (which she discovers is a bordello), she has come to put her amateur detective skills to the test to  find her father's murderer.  It doesn't take much thought to figure out  that Thomas Hall is not the reverend he pretends to be, which puts him at  the top of the suspect list.<br />In spite of several close calls, Emily seems  to be oblivious to any threat to her own safety or virtue.  Indeed, she  doesn't seem to be very firmly grounded in the real world, in spite of her  intelligence and logic.  That's why Thomas (a.k.a. Watson) is a perfect  match for her.  He is attracted by her beauty and intelligence, but his  eyes are open to the danger that stalks her.<br />And Rosie, the ghost in the  mirror (? ), added some humor to the story as well.  The only thing I  could have wished for is a little more insight into the character of  Emily's father, who seems little more than a cardboard character in spite  of the fact that his name is mentioned on just about every page!	2000-02-19
US	52928593	R176FD1C7LZRSL	0451199618	343902543	A Worthy Wife (Signet Regency Romance)	Books	4	18	18	N	N	An earl marries the fiancee of a bigamist to save her honor.	Aurora McPhee is being married to the dashing Harland Podell when Kenyon Warriner, the Earl of Windham, brings the ceremony to a halt with his declaration that Mr. Podell is a bigamist.  When it appears that Aurora  desperately needs a husband, Kenyon heroically offers to marry her himself.   When he discovers later on that she is not only NOT pregnant, but a  virgin, he feels betrayed.  Nevertheless, he is relieved when he learns  that an annulment is not possible.  However, before he can court his wife  and win her heart, he has to go to France to bring his wounded brother  home.  In the meantime, Aurora takes on the job of refurbishing the family  home--not to mention the rest of the family--with the help of some  down-and-out characters rescued from the slums of London.  Lo and behold,  Aurora turns out to be just the sort of helpmeet Kenyon needs--if he could  only get her alone long enough to consummate the marriage!<br />This book is  full of ridiculous situations and crazy humor so characteristic of Ms.  Metzger's novels.  For that reason alone it is worth reading.  I could  wish, however, for a bit more romance between the main characters.  The  sexual tension is so long drawn out that it becomes frustrating for the  reader as well as the main characters!  Is it really necessary for Kenyon  to be away so long?	2000-02-12
US	52928593	REQXKFAEW9MR	0380802899	89425013	Never Trust a Rake	Books	4	5	6	N	Y	Gabriel finds salvation in the arms of a real-life angel.	Gabriel is a lord whose heritage was denied him by his father's madness.  After his father's death, Gabriel escaped his island prison and went to London for many years of debauchery and hell-raising.  A wild bet sends him  to a convent to cut off a lock of a nun's hair, but while there, his  purpose is misininterpreted and he finds himself in a hangman's noose. (I  have to admit I found this an unlikely situation...a lord sentenced to  death for supposedly raping a nun?)<br />Fortunately, a man-hating reformer  and her assistant mistakenly rescue Gabriel in the nick of time.  Although  the last thing he wants to do is get involved with this crazy woman and her  &quot;flowers&quot;, he allows himself to accept her offer of a large sum  of money to help rescue a woman from a prison ship.  <br />As Gabriel gets to  know Louisa, he finds himself attracted to her soul as well as her angelic  beauty.  But he is a convicted felon, a lord without a castle, a man  emotionally scarred from his childhood.  How can they have a life  together?<br />From Louisa's point of view, Gabriel seems the epitome of  everything she despises about men.  But then she begins to see behind the  cynical facade to the deeply scarred soul and realizes that she has the  power to help him become a whole man again.  And, surprise of surprises, he  can help her get over her own past and deep-seated bitterness toward  men.<br />The first part of the book reminded me of some of my favorite Amanda  Quick novels, but the plot seemed to bog down toward the end and my  attention waned.  The submarine stuff at the end just didn't fit in with  the rest of the story.  And it was just too easy for Gabriel to get his  death sentence reversed.  Nevertheless, I did enjoy the book and look  forward to any others by this author.	2000-02-12
US	52928593	R1XB3PJ93PK1NS	0515125652	235925590	Stolen Charms	Books	5	19	20	N	Y	She must hide her heart from a man who cannot be faithful.	Natalie knows from her own family's experience of the devastation that can be caused by an unfaithful spouse, so she is determined not to fall for Jonathan's good looks and charming manner.  However, she needs him to  introduce her to a notorious spy-thief that he is acquainted with, so she  persuades him to allow her to accompany him on a forthcoming trip to  France.<br />Jonathan knows she is not telling him everything about her  motives, but it suits him to have her around, especially since he has been  seriously considering the idea of marrying and settling down...and the two  of them HAD shared a rather devastating romantic interlude in a garden five  years ago.  It piques him that she tries to hold herself aloof from him,  although she responds fervishly to his passionate kisses.  The surprising  truth is that he wants more than passion from her...he yearns for her heart  more than anything else.<br />What I enjoyed most about this book is the  wonderful description of the hero's love as he waits for Natalie to confess  she loves him.  You can feel the hurt he feels when she states that she  could never marry him.  But through it all, his love never waivers, his  patience never fails, his faithfulness endures to the end.  Natalie is a  very lucky woman! <br />The ease with which the gently-born Natalie managed  to escape the protection of her family was a little hard to believe for the  period, but this book was so memorable that I forgive the author for her  little inaccuracy.  Truth to tell, I'd give this book TEN STARS if I could!	2000-01-30
US	52928593	RZHD1A0BFHN5P	0440224934	126521651	Devil's Wager	Books	5	8	12	N	N	A careless wager cost Lad his beloved bride-perhaps forever!	As a proud American, Lad Walker had nothing but contempt for his father's homeland and the English earl who had disinherited him long ago. But when he first set eyes on Diana Whitleby, his grandfather's goddaughter, he knew  he would do anything to win her love, even assume the earldom of Kerlaine  and strive to rescue the estate from the poverty into which it had  fallen.<br />As much as she loved him in return, Diana had made a prior  commitment to protect the castle, the land, and the tenants at all costs.  She knew her beloved American husband could not understand her feelings,  anymore than he could fit into his role as the earl, but when he lost the  entire estate on the turn of a card, Diana was forced to send him away  until he could earn the money to redeem it.<br />For the first several months  of his exile, Lad's efforts met with nothing but failure.  Then he had the  good fortune to run into a real-life guardian angel who taught him how to  behave like an English gentleman and helped him find an honorable way to  win back his inheritance and his wife. Under his tutelage, Lad began to  understand the English social system and, indeed, his own responsibilities  as the earl of Kerlaine.<br />What a shock, then, to return to Kerlaine with  the means to redeem it, only to find his wife preparing to honor a  dastardly wager of her own!<br />The last of Mary Spencer's &quot;Wager&quot;  trilogy, this book may be the best of them all. Not only does it portray  the triumph of true love over evil, but it makes even this patriotic  American reader begin to understand and appreciate the purposes and  benefits of the English class system.	2000-01-23
US	52928593	R4CULBRS1529T	0451195361	16662744	Miss Carlyle's Curricle (Signet Regency Romance)	Books	5	15	15	N	Y	A delightful twist on the &quot;marriage-by-bequest&quot; theme	What a refreshing change to find a story where the hero falls in love at first sight and sets about convincing the heroine that they are &quot;two halves of a whole&quot; that were meant to be together! A hero without the  usual lordly arrogance, the large succession of mistresses, the prejudice  against marriage and commitment. . . .  I hadn't quite realized until I  read this how disgusted I had become with the traditional regency hero.   Now that I have, I find myself hungering for more of the same.  Regency  authors, are you listening?  <br />Readers, you can't go wrong with this  delightful tale of a pair willed to marry each other who nevertheless  become a true love match.	2000-01-15
US	52928593	R35B9NB38EVHLS	0380800829	704647865	The Duke and I (Bridgerton Series, Book 1)	Books	5	9	11	N	N	The best book I have read in ages! (And I read lots!)	I read in Romantic Times about Julia Quinn's dilemma with the title of this book: personally, I prefer &quot;Daphne and the Duke.&quot; But that's neither here nor there.<br />Take my advice: don't start reading this book  unless you have plenty of time to finish. It was agony when I had to leave  to go to work when only halfway done. You truly won't want to put it down.  This heartwarming tale of an emotionally troubled duke who is entranced and  eventually healed by a loving young woman from a delightfully healthy  family is a definite keeper.<br />&quot;How To Marry a Marquis&quot; was so  good I couldn't imagine a better one, but this one manages the task. Julia  Quinn definitely has what it takes to keep a reader enthralled from  beginning to end! I'm looking forward to the next one!	2000-01-14
US	52928593	R2TOZ01140P7CF	0671023721	86002231	Just A Kiss Away	Books	5	44	45	N	N	A pampered Southern belle and a hardened mercenary solder?	No, it's not a joke.  The story takes place in the jungles of the Philippines during a violent revolution.  Sam is a one-eyed mercenary soldier who runs across Eulalie Grace LaRue, a 19-year-old Southern belle  who has come to meet the ambassador-father she hasn't seen for 17 years.  She and Sam are forced to flee together for their lives through a dangerous  jungle full of mud, bugs, precipices, and scantily-dressed natives. <br />From  the moment he meets her, ghetto-raised Sam despises Eulalie Grace LaRue,  who had been protected from the realities of the cruel world by her older  brothers. It isn't just her pampered princess upbringing that annoys him. .  .there is also the shrill screaming that threatens his hearing, the  constant complaining, the singing, the many disasters that she causes  whenever he turns his back. Well, Lollie tells herself she doesn't care  what he thinks because. . . well, no true gentleman would treat a lady in  such a spiteful way.<br />As their hair-raising adventures continue, however,  both Sam and Lollie begin to see beneath the surface.  Sam realizes that  Lollie, in spite of her ladylike airs, suffers from a lack of  self-confidence brought on by her father's abandonment and the  overprotectiveness of her brothers.  Lollie realizes that Sam's tough  exterior is a defensive mechanism that he uses to keep people,  emotions--and hurt--from getting too close.<br />After reading this  book--which I could hardly force myself to put down--I have to agree with  Sam, who, when asked by Lollie why he loves her, replies:<br />&quot;Because  God has a sense of humor.&quot;<br />And so, obviously, does Jill Barnett.   Nice job!	1999-07-22
US	52928593	RMBFO3GT4T0CU	0821762524	354425747	A Cajun Dream	Books	5	20	21	N	N	Love bridges the gulf between two cultures.	Amanda's over-protective father frightens away every potential suitor, and Amanda fears spinsterhood.  Ashamed that she is 21 years old and never been kissed, she makes arrangements in secret to go to a ball with someone she  has heard is a good kisser.  This scoundrel, on the other hand, plans to  abduct her and force her to marry him, believing her wealthy father will  pay him to avoid scandal.<br />Fortunately, she is rescued by a handsome young  man who is secretly in love with her but knows that he is beneath her  because of his Acadien (French Canadian) heritage. Of course, his  &quot;rescue&quot; must also result in compromise, so Amanda and René are  married. Neither knows the true feelings of the other, so they must  experience the usual agony of doubt before they are able to confess their  love.<br />But this story is much more than a charming romance, and, as posted  by a previous reader, a portrayal of Louisiana history (which is very  interesting, by the way).  It is also a story of how Americans fought to  overcome prejudices between people of different races and cultures in order  to work together to make their country successful. America's diversity  makes it unique among all other countries in the world, and, rather than  take it for granted, we must strive to ensure that America remains a haven  for people of all nations and cultures.<br />I heartily recommend this book  and will certainly look for more from this author.	1999-06-17
US	52928593	R15EN5J32BDX07	0671019414	550014575	Hooked	Books	5	4	6	N	Y	A real charmer!	A marvelous lesson to all of us to be true to ourselves and not allow the prejudices of others to make us feel unworthy.  And to fight for what's right even if it's not popular to do so.<br />And a delicious romance as well,  which is by no means secondary to the plot.  This book truly has it all.  I  highly recommend it and will look for more by this author.	1999-06-14
US	52928593	R2DVLDH25WAXO1	0821762052	914897047	The Duke's Lady (Zebra Splendor Historical Romances)	Books	5	1	2	N	N	A delightful tale of a reluctant duke and a pirate's niece.	Adam Trent is an English duke loyal to the Americans in the War of 1812.  When a battered young girl washes ashore on a beach near his home in Cornwall, he finds himself drawn to her.  Who is she?  Where did she come  from?  No one knows, not even Jewel herself, who is suffering from a case  of amnesia.  But as glimpses of the past return to her, she begins to fear  that the truth will destroy the love beginning to grow between them.<br />It  was impossible to put this book down.  The characterization, the dialogue,  the action, the sexual tension. . . all had me fascinated from beginning to  end.  I heartily recommend it to any devotee of historical romance, and you  can bet I will look for more books by this very talented author.	1999-05-22
US	52928593	R18L9FKNVUWG6B	1551664917	66831105	The Charm School	Books	5	17	17	N	Y	An enchanting story of love between two black sheep.	She's the gauche misfit daughter of prominent Boston socialites.  He's the &quot;bad boy&quot; abolitionist son of a slave-holding Southern plantation owner.  Although they hate each other on sight, it soon becomes obvious to  everyone except them that they need each other to reach their full  potential.  Falling in love in the lush tropical paradise of Rio de Janeiro  (I'm ready to buy my ticket!), they must be prepared to face the reality of  their respective families back home.<br />This book has something important to  say to all of us who have endured the &quot;ugly duckling&quot; years.   Between the poignant tears and uninhibited laughter of self-discovery  aboard a ship with a very special crew and the ugly reality of slavery in  the pre-Civil War South, no reader will be able to escape with dry eyes.	1999-05-02
US	52928593	RSJW9ETCIQFPU	0821762036	36565156	Enticed (Zebra Splendor Historical Romances)	Books	5	13	14	N	N	Pandora and the duke share more than a love of conundrums.	An earl's daughter with four lively nieces and nephews to support, Pandora Featherstone supplements her meager income by offering her services as a &quot;confidential inquiry agent.&quot;  Chance True-Son Quincy Ridgeway,  Duke of Rivenoak, seeks to discover the villain who ordered the massacre of  his family and an entire Indian village.  Thrown together in their quest  for the truth, the duke and his &quot;confidential inquiry agent&quot;  discover a &quot;strong mutual physical magnetism&quot; that transcends the  duke's desire for revenge.  But will he still feel the same when he  discovers that her brother may have been involved in the massacre of his  family?<br />The heroine reminds me of those found in my favorite Amanda Quick  novels:  strong, intelligent, compassionate, unselfish, energetic, with a  thirst for knowledge beyond the type of feminine pursuits typical of the  time. Add an unconventional hero--a half-Indian duke with a sense of social  responsibility beyond paying his tailor and collecting the rents--and a  touch of mystery and danger, and you've got a recipe for a delightful  romantic romp.<br />And if you don't know what a conundrum is, well, you  should have a pretty good idea by the time you finish this book!	1999-03-28
US	52928593	R3P0KYV2JCW8H9	084394482X	284787270	The Key	Books	5	4	4	N	N	She dons a chastity belt to discourage an odiferous husband.	Iliana escapes her evil stepfather by agreeing to a marriage with a Scottish laird, but she never dreamed she'd have to deal with a pigsty of a castle and a husband who smells like a pig and refuses to bathe more than  twice a year!  Duncan Dunbar and his father Angus have lived in a filthy  bachelor household since Duncan's mother's death twenty years ago.  Having  never known anything else, Duncan is outraged when Iliana refuses to  consummate the marriage until he takes a bath.  Fortunately, she has  brought with her a chastity belt (a gift from her dead father after a trip  to Italy) which effectively discourages her husband's advances.  Then she  rolls up sleeves and sets the entire household to work scrubbing and  cleaning a castle which has become an abomination after 20 years of  neglect.<br />Although her stubborn husband fails to appreciate her efforts,  her father-in-law--remembering the way things used to be when his late wife  was around--becomes her staunch defender and ally, advising his son that  having a woman in the house has its advantages.  Nevertheless, Iliana and  Duncan have a great deal to learn about life and love before discovering  the key leading to their own happiness.<br />Iliana is a strong-willed,  determined young woman who has survived abuse and imprisonment, and, in  spite of being &quot;only a female,&quot; she stands up for her beliefs in  the face of her husband's disapproval.  Surely the woman who cleverly  masterminds the defense of the besieged fortress in the absence of her  husband will eventually find a way to persuade him to bathe  regularly!<br />The humor in this book kept me enthralled from beginning to  end.  Although I'm not sure I believed the chastity belt premise too  much--surely he could have snatched it away any time she had to answer  nature's call--the humorous characters and situations made this one of the  most original and enjoyable reads in a long time.  I will definitely look  for more books from this author.	1999-01-10
US	52928593	RZH7J729SECB6	0843935405	684775869	Reluctant Lovers	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Unexpected romance between two people sworn off love.	A young widow, Kat had had enough of marriage with her drunken husband.  Connor had enough &quot;wedded bliss&quot; with his late wife too.  But why does he stiffen up with disapproval with each proposal of marriage made to  Kat, even though they are all quickly refused?  Why should he even THINK of  proposing to her? What with all her worthy causes, business interests, and  political aspirations, she wouldn't even look at him twice!  Would  she?<br />Kat's strong character and stubborn but loving nature make her an  ideal heroine. Although the book seems overlong in places, the comical  situations make it worthwhile.  One is left wishing one could still aspire  to being a &quot;Chicago girl&quot; recruited for marriage to the desperate  miners in  the mining town of Breckinridge, Colorado.	1998-11-28
US	52928593	R3I2LQKNPEMEYH	0821760718	586601177	A Home For The Holidays	Books	5	2	2	N	N	A wealthy young lady becomes a temporary governess.	Although she has been educated more than the average gentleman and lived  in the lap of luxury all her life, Alexandra yearns to escape the  &quot;prison&quot; her protective guardians have created for her.  So when  the opportunity to masquerade as a temporary governess presents itself,  Alexandra does not hesitate.<br />Richard, a widowed earl with a troubled  young daughter, finds himself attracted to Alexandra from the start.  It  seems obvious that she is not really a governess.  Trunks of expensive  clothing, a cavalier attitude toward money, and frequent slips of the  tongue all point to her being a well-brought-up young lady.  Could this be  an elaborate plan to trap him into matrimony?  Nevertheless, Alexandra's  sweet nature and her successful management of his young daughter's behavior  and education draw him to her like a magnet.  But how can he entice her to  become his countess before the permanent governess arrives?<br />A hero who  doesn't have to be dragged to the altar?  Imagine that!  In this book the  author has created a sensitive, caring man with the same self-doubts and  insecurities as everyone else. How much more romantic and sweet than the  self-assured, arrogant heroes determined to avoid commitment that  proliferate in romance novels!	1998-10-15
US	52928593	R3U7SGTATOKK12	0449002330	363963985	His Grace Endures (Regency Romance)	Books	5	20	20	N	N	She left him standing at the altar to marry his best friend.	Lucas, the Duke of Canover, fell in love with Deirdre when he first saw  her, but--not being adept at showing his feelings--he conspired with her  social-climbing father to make her his wife, instead of wooing her.   Severely beaten by her father when she tried to refuse, Deirdre was  desperate to escape, and did not fight her attraction to his best friend  Jonas, who convinced her to run from the altar into his arms and a hasty  marriage at Gretna Green.<br />Seven years later, a widowed Deirdre, despising  the false values of the ton and valuing her quiet life at the Scottish  cottage she and Jonas had shared during their marriage, finds it necessary  to return to the London to sponsor her beloved sister-in-law on the  Marriage Mart.  When she and Lucas meet again after that disastrous  wedding-that-never-was, sparks fly between them and rumors abound that  Lucas is a blackguard who broke her heart and is determined to get revenge.   The truth, however, is that Deirdre discovers that he is not the  blackguard she believed him to be.  In fact, he is a fine, worthy man who  wanted--and surprisingly still wants--only to love her the rest of her  life.  Does she have the courage to forsake the quiet life in the Scottish  countryside for marriage to a man she thought she despised for seven years?   Will Lucas make the same mistake of letting her go without a  fight?<br />Although I started this book late in the evening and planned only  to read a chapter or so, I found myself completely engrossed and could not  stop until I had finished it.  I will definitely look for more books by  this author.	1998-10-07
US	52928593	R2W5XIDTUIEYQ1	0821759884	30420623	By Desire Bound (Zebra Splendor Historical Romances)	Books	1	4	5	N	N	Steamy eroticism is NOT romance!!!	The sex in this book is the steamiest I've ever seen. . . and I've read  Bertrice Small and Susan Johnson!  But the word &quot;love&quot; is only  mentioned on the last page; the rest of the book is pervaded by a desire by  both parties to enslave the other with lust (the title is an apt one).  The  characters are admitted adventurers, both USING the other--she needs him to  find the priceless diamond, he needs her for eyes when he is mysteriously  blind.  The plot is thinly devised to bind the sex scenes together. . . I  found myself skipping through from sex scene to sex scene to see what new  perversion comes to light. . . like an adolescent reading a dirty book!   Needless to say, this book is NOT a keeper!	1998-09-22
US	52928593	RXRDD3MB0CU9T	0843937831	568445120	Fancy (Leisure Historical Romance)	Books	3	26	28	N	N	Chance wants Fancy badly. . . but not as his wife.	Perhaps it's because he first met her as a dance hall girl and assumed she  was a whore.  Anyway, Chance Dawson is determined to get Fancy in his bed.   Fancy, struggling to keep her family fed, is not interested in his  proposition.  Dancing is the only way she can make a living in this logging  town owned by. . . you guessed it. . . Chance Dawson.  When he pressures  her employer to fire her, Fancy is forced to bring her family to live in  Chance's home.<br />Although I did enjoy this book, I was aggravated by  Chance's stubborn refusal to consider making her his wife, especially after  he discovered her innocence.  Considering that nearly every single man in  the town would have jumped over hoops to marry her, his reluctance to claim  her as his own seemed odd.  Especially when she proved to be a great  housekeeper and cook in addition to her other desirable characteristics.   This circumstance caused me to doubt the depth of his love for her.  Now if  the author had given us a good REASON for his attitude, perhaps I could  have accepted it.  But I don't find it terribly romantic that he expected  her to be ecstatic at the prospect of being his whore. . . especially when  she had her family's welfare to consider.	1998-09-21
US	52928593	R1PMGIQJ91Z0QX	0446364304	626100996	Temptation's Kiss	Books	4	31	32	N	N	He meets the love of his life the night before her wedding!	Josh and Megan share a passionate kiss the night before her wedding to one  of his best friends.  Shocked by her response and feeling disloyal to her  fiance, Megan manages to avoid Josh (her husband's employer) after her  marriage.  After her husband succumbs to a coronary a year later, Megan  dedicates herself to her job as sales manager for a radio station.  Three  years later, Megan finds herself relentlessly pursued by Josh, who she  believes is a heartless womanizer.<br />I found this book impossible to put  down.  Very explicit sex.	1998-09-18
US	52928593	R21JMHRGZTOKI	0843942045	214560491	Hawke's Pride (Leisure historical romance)	Books	4	19	20	N	N	First impressions can be deceiving!	Growing up with a prostitute mother and a lazy, good-for-nothing,  lecherous stepfather, Rue had never known true happiness for more than a  fleeting moment.  Disgusted with the long line of men passing through her  mother's bedroom, Rue wants nothing to do with them.  Passing through town  on his way home, Hawke Masters finds himself repelled by the dirty-faced,  skinny, sharp-tongued girl he assumes is a whore like her mother.  Rue's  stepfather, seeing a chance to get rid of the girl and make a buck in the  process, offers to sell her to Hawke.  Hawke has no intention of doing so,  until Rue's grandfather, hoping this will be the opportunity for Rue to  escape her miserable life, forces the two to undergo a shotgun wedding.  <br />As they travel to Hawke's home, Hawke makes it clear that he despises  her in just about every way imaginable.  In fact, my only criticism of the  book is that the cruelties are a little TOO cruel for my taste.  When they  arrive home, however, and Rue gets a chance to recover from the chicken pox  and wash her hair, Hawke is surprised to see how beautiful she is.  Discovering her inner beauty is makes her even more appealing.  But she  despises him!  How can he show her his repentance for his past behavior and  entice her to fall in love with him?<br />This is a book that will keep any  reader engrossed until the very end.	1998-09-16
US	52928593	RQI34KG4ZLLNM	0451195760	511163800	Miss Tibbles' Folly (Signet Regency Romance)	Books	5	10	10	N	N	Finally! An older, mature Regency heroine finds romance.	Since nearly all Regency heroines are very young girls (21-year-olds are  considered &quot;on the shelf&quot;), it is sometimes difficult for older  readers to identify with them. There are times when I want to scream at the  silliness of some heroines. . . until I recall my own immaturity at that  age.  Then I begin to doubt the veracity of the heroines who behave  sensibly at such a young age!<br />Nevertheless, it is heartening to find a  Regency novel portraying the romance of an &quot;older&quot; heroine (at  38, she's quite definitely on the shelf).  Why should romance be limited to  the young, who are usually too young and silly to truly appreciate it?   And. . . another pet peeve of mine. . . why should romance be limited only  to the upper class? Is falling in love with a governess (especially one who  was gently born) such a terrible crime?<br />Fortunately, Miss Tibbles is too  sensible to allow such prejudices to destroy her romance with the man who  was with her fiance as he died on the battlefield 20 years ago.  Even the  malicious rumors that he was somehow responsible for his first wife's death  do not phase her.  Her experiences dealing with recalcitrant young debs and  fighting off lustful employers have made her an excellent judge of  character.<br />Heartfelt congratulations to the author for this wonderful,  one-of-a-kind Regency!  Now, when can we expect to see a hero who is not an  earl or a marquis?  Surely butlers, grooms, and estate managers are just as  good hero material as the pampered noblemen!	1998-09-07
US	52928593	RJ3R2WZJYNP2T	0821760009	633918840	Surrender (Zebra Historical Romance)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	One night of forbidden love results in heartache.	Pregnant after a romantic encounter with a riverboat captain, 17-year-old  Jennifer is sent against her will to a home for unwed mothers, which turns  out to be a nightmarish hellhole instead.  After her rescue by Marcus, who  realizes that he is the baby's father, the couple are forced by  circumstances to marry.  But what happiness can there be in such a forced  marriage?  Jennifer knows she is not the society wife and heiress Marcus  desires, and without love to bind them together, how can she be certain he  won't eventually desert her. . . as he did the first time?  So, in spite of  Marcus' growing passion for her, Jennifer holds herself aloof, insisting  that her position as wife be considered merely a job as nursemaid/caretaker  for their child and fashion plate for social occasions. In spite of the  powerful physical attraction between them, Marcus and Jennifer find  themselves fighting against the feelings of love that will make them  vulnerable to each other.<br />I found this book so engrossing I couldn't put  it down. . . and finished all 500 pages in one evening!	1998-08-30
US	52928593	R91X5I63LPSC	0061083984	12162872	Once a Knight: Good Knights #1	Books	5	17	17	N	N	A hilarious romance between two very unique people.	If you're looking for the typical gut-wrenching medieval romance where the  protagonists hate each other at first sight, look elsewhere.  This is an  extraordinary tale of love blossoming between a knight who has seen better  days and a strong-willed &quot;widowed virgin&quot; who doesn't think she  needs a man at all. How refreshing it is to see a medieval hero who is not  arrogant and all-powerful, but turns out to be a true &quot;Renaissance  man&quot; who demonstrates his love by his kindness and integrity until the  heroine realizes in surprise that she returns his feelings.  What a shame  there aren't more light, entertaining, and comical romances such as this  one!  I salute the author for her talent and originality.	1998-08-23
US	52928593	R1QXC6W2AT5B74	0449001709	433861864	Miss Lockharte's Letters (Regency Romance)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	The funniest Regency romance I have ever read.	This book was so hilarious that it took me twice as long to read it as  usual because I kept having to take off my glasses and wipe the tears out  of my eyes, and it got even more so toward the end.  A refreshing switch  from the gut-wrenching historicals I've been reading lately!  Too bad there  aren't more entertaining &quot;sweet&quot; romances out there!	1998-08-23
US	52928593	R2XVKK35HD8HEZ	0451402448	56477257	Uncommon Vows (Onyx)	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Gut-wrenching tale of love-at-first-sight	The tremendous pull of a man's struggle to win the woman he fell in love  with at first sight causes him to try to force her to his will by  imprisoning her, which has the opposite effect of making her hate him.   There seems to be no way for him to win her. . . until a life-threatening  fall takes away her memory.  Without knowledge of previous events, she  falls in love with him and they begin a rapturous marriage. . . until her  memory returns.  <br />This story had me constantly in tears.  The depth of  the hero's love and the tragic events that follow his misguided attempts to  win the heroine are so moving that I know I will read and reread this book  in the months and years to come.	1998-08-22
US	52928593	R35SDX7TR9MGWB	0425164470	646929521	Illusion	Books	5	3	3	N	N	A masterpiece of romance, intrigue, and spiritual healing.	A young girl whose innocence was robbed in a maharaja's harem, Frances  escapes and returns to England, to find her aunt dead, and her only option  to exist as some rich man's mistress.  Spy extraordinare, Nigel carries  within himself a bitter spirit of long lost love and betrayal. He doesn't  want to love again, and Frances doesn't want to fall in love either,  because of the hurt she would feel at the inevitable end of the  relationship.  Nevertheless, as their relationship progresses, they each  discover that appearances are deceiving and neither is what they appear to  be on the surface.  (&quot;Illusion&quot; is an apt title for this story.)   And they discover that enduring love can cleanse and heal their souls.   This is a book that I will not forget soon.	1998-08-22
US	52928593	RYHVTVMP109GZ	0821759523	201438116	Sweet Words Of Love (Lovegram Romance)	Books	4	6	6	N	N	A young innocent Rainey finds true love in her backyard.	Thorne has loved Rainey since she was a child. She thinks of him as her  best friend, and when she becomes infatuated with the new handsome  schoolteacher, she asks him to show her how to use &quot;feminine  wiles&quot; to attract him.  After a few kissing lessons, she hardly  remembers the schoolteacher, but she refuses Thorne's offer of marriage  because she thinks he is offering out of duty rather than love.  A  secondary plot has Thorne hiring a private detective to find his long lost  half sister, but this plot is never fully developed and in fact seems to  interfere with the primary romance.  Although he never said the exact words  she wanted, Thorne expressed his feelings toward her in his actions and  words; only a dimwit could have mistaken them.  Nevertheless, I could not  put this book down because the hero is every woman's dream and, frankly, I  fell in love with him too.  How refreshing to find a book where the hero's  deep feelings about the heroine are never in doubt (at least to the  reader).  I will look for more books like this one!	1998-08-19
US	52928593	R1OW6FBRMXS8TN	0312966490	155205570	The Bride of Rosecliffe	Books	3	6	7	N	N	A story of conflict between the Welsh and English invaders.	Josselyn is a spirited, fiercely patriotic young Welsh heiress.  Rand is  an English nobleman sent to conquer and subdue the Welsh for the English  king.  Each fights against their attraction for each other because of their  nationalistic origins.<br />I purchased this book because it was highly  recommended by Romantic Times Magazine.  However, I was disappointed.  The  romance angle was overshadowed by the hatred and frequent betrayals.  Rand  was portrayed as such a tough, unfeeling conqueror that it just didn't seem  possible that he would fall in love with anyone, let alone a Welsh girl as  patriotic as Josselyn.  Sexual attraction, yes.  Love, no.  On Josselyn's  part, falling in love seemed to be a result of their sexual encounters more  than anything else.  Maybe such a thing might happen to an ordinary woman,  but not a strong, spirited young miss like Josselyn.  This book could use a  lot more romance and a lot less hatred and betrayal.	1998-08-17
US	52928593	R20OIZJ5OZF6EW	0843944242	182938362	Tanner	Books	4	1	2	N	N	This is a story that will tear your heart out.	Tanner and Roxy are torn apart for seven bitter years, each believing  themselves betrayed by the other.  When they finally meet again, their love  for each other triumphs, although the bitterness of the past threatens to  keep them apart. I could not put this book down, and have vowed to obtain  as many other titles by this author as I can.	1998-08-15
