US	52928084	R215NJ22QKPLQ6	0936455047	515652147	Mysteries and Miracles of Arizona	Books	3	3	4	N	N	Interesting, but more fiction than fact.	This book reviews several of the legends and lore of Arizona. Most of the chapters deal with supernatural tales such as ghostly apparitions and otherworldly encounters. One chapter covers the Travis Walton UFO abduction story. Walton's story was dramatized in the movie &quot;Fire in the Sky.&quot; Another chapter is about the ancient Roman artifacts that were supposedly found buried near Tucson.<br />Kutz has a very readable writing style and the book is enjoyable to read. My major criticism of the book is that it takes these legends at face value and leads the reader to believe that the stories are true. Kutz ignores readily available evidence about most of these stories that show them to be hoaxes or urban legends.<br />The Roman artifacts story is an example. Research has demonstrated that these artifacts were not genuine. For example, the Latin inscriptions on them contain modern Latin words that would not have been used in Ancient Rome. To support the validity of this find, the author also cites other examples of Roman artifacts that have supposedly been found in the U.S. Again, all of these other examples have been proven to be hoaxes or have other explanations<br />If you want a book on Arizona legends then you might enjoy this one. However, the reader should be advised that this book leans more toward fiction than non-fiction.	2001-12-18
US	52928084	RX9NJGN9V4842	1555610609	590684761	Learning About and Living With Insects of the Southwest: How to Identify Helpful, Harmful and Venomous Insects	Books	5	6	7	N	Y	A nice reference for the desert dweller	This is a nice book to own if you live in the southwestern deserts. The next time a strange creepy-crawler dashed across your kitchen floor you'll be able to find out what it is and determine if it's dangerous.  The illustrations in the book are well done.  The text tells you a lot about each insect but does not bore you with information that only an entomologist would care about.  In short, its a nice reference to have around the house if you want to learn more about the 6 and 8 legged creatures of the region.	2001-12-18
US	52928084	RCNY4BE3W8BGI	0609800175	722403458	The Field Guide to North American Monsters: Everything You Need to Know About Encountering Over 100 Terrifying Creatures in the Wild	Books	4	14	16	N	Y	An entertaining look at American &quot;monsters.&quot;	Much of the criticism surrounding this book centers on the fact that it is not \\"serious.\\" One only has to look at the cover to realize that this is a tongue-in-cheek look at various monster legends in the U.S. In many ways, the book is a parody of other field guides - only this one is a field guide about monsters.  I suspect that some other readers were offended because one interpretation of the book's intent is that it is poking fun at those on the fringes of cryptozoology.   <br />I found the book to be entertaining.  The book contains a mixture of information that some cryptologists would consider factual along with the author's own embellishments.  It covers most of the monster legends in the U.S. and there were quite a few of them that I was unaware of.  <br />There are many illustrations.  Some of them were well done although a few looked like a grade school kid drew them. The book has an abridged bibliography and a glossary although there is no index.  It also lists each states in the U.S. and describes which monsters are reported to live there.<br />If you enjoy reading about American folklore and urban legends then you will probably enjoy this book.  If you spend your nights roaming around with a flashlight looking for Chupacabra then this book will probably annoy you.	2001-12-18
US	52928084	RHYQX6CXY9P8Z	0914846566	461312180	Quest for the Dutchman's Gold: The 100-Year Mystery: The Facts, Myths and Legends of the Lost Dutchman Mine and the Superstition M	Books	5	12	12	N	Y	Factual look at one of the west enduring legends.	Like another reviewer, I read this book when it was entitled Fools Gold.  The book gives a detailed, factual account of the Lost Dutchman's Mine Legend.  The author describes his personal experiences working with those that have searched for the mine.  He also includes quite a bit of original historical research on the history of the legend and on Jacob Waltz (the Dutchman).  He intersperses these perspectives throughout the book.  It is a very interesting book to read even if you are marginally interested in this topic.<br />The author does a good job of debunking the legend. If you have any doubts about whether the mine exists you probably won't after reading this book.  The evidence clearly indicates that the Dutchman's Mine is fiction, not fact.	2001-11-01
US	52928084	R2XISX0RK7WOD7	0898155177	24105712	The Great Salsa Book	Books	4	50	50	N	Y	Unique and delicious recipes.	This has some excellent salsa recipes.  I have tried several and have been very pleased with the results.  The instructions are clear and there are color photographs of each of the dishes.  However, if you're expecting recipes for traditional, tomato-based salsas, like you find in the stores and restaurants, you may be a little disappointed.  Most of the book  describes  \\"salsas\\" that are fruit, meat, seafood, or vegetable based.  <br />I do have a complaint about the book format.  It is tall and not very wide, the cover is thick and the binding is very tight.  It's not the kind of book that you can lay flat to refer to while you're preparing the dish.  Luckily, most of the recipes are very short and simple so you won't be referring back to the book very often.  One final nitpick - I wish they had included more information on the various ingredients.  They provide some, but I had not heard of some of them and it would have been nice to read about them.  Other salsa books I have read provide this information.  Despite these negative comments, I can recommend this book to anyone looking for some unique recipes to spice up the meals and parties.	2001-11-01
US	52928084	RFZXFDXWXRUQA	1889786020	504999885	Moving to Arizona: The Complete Arizona Answer Book	Books	5	14	17	N	Y	An excellent resource for the new Arizonan	My father recently moved to Arizona and I purchased this for him a few weeks before he made the move. He had found it to be very helpful.  It contains all of the essential information that any newcomer to the state might need.  It is well written and seems to be very current.<br />If you're a newcomer to the state or considering moving to Arizona, then I'd recommend that you consider purchasing this book.	2001-08-13
US	52928084	R1RXFCPDR9IS0Z	0918880416	96888531	Jump Start Your Book Sales: A Money-Making Guide for Authors, Independent Publishers and Small Presses	Books	5	1	2	N	Y	An excellent resource for small presses or authors	This book is a must-have for the small publisher or author.  It is full of great ideas and resources and the information is very up to date.  I refer to this book often and have found it to be invaluable.  Although it is packed with information, it is written in a light, easy-to-read style.  There are many \\"self publishing\\" books on the market and many of them are marginally helpful - at best..  This is one of the few that stand out.  Buy it - you won't be sorry.	2001-08-13
US	52928084	R1H9IOPMQE1MOE	0918080428	540027170	Arizona: A Cavalcade of History	Books	5	8	10	N	Y	One of the best ways to learn about Arizona's history	I've read several of Trimble's books on Arizona and have thoroughly enjoyed each.  Trimble has two gifts that make his books special.  <br />The first is his writing style.  Although I enjoy reading about Arizona history, some books can make this tedious at times.  I read a chapter or two, and then I need to take a break. When reading Trimble you find yourself wrapped up in history.  His lively prose and frequent use of humorous and fascinating anecdotes make the pages fly by.  This book is no exception.  Even those that are bored by history will probably enjoy this book.<br />The second of Trimble's gift is his knowledge of Arizona and the southwest.  His books are packed with information about the state.  There is a reason that he has been named the state's Official Historian.  <br />If you want to learn about Arizona's fascinating past, this book is one of the ones that you should start with.	2001-08-07
US	52928084	R1QVG5PXRJXNJ7	0684818868	458361116	Lies My Teacher Told Me : Everything Your American History Textbook Got Wrong	Books	3	13	16	N	N	American history without the sugar-coating.	Loewen's  book describes the inadequacies and errors that plague American history textbooks commonly used in the our educational system.  His basic premise is that these books were written from white, middle-class perspective of history and were designed to make us \\"feel good\\" about our past.  These texts hide the overt racial prejudices of many famous historical figures.  They gloss over, or fail to mention, various atrocities that America perpetrated on blacks and Native Americans.  They fail to force students to ask questions about controversial issues in our recent past such as Vietnam and the civil rights movement - instead treating these issues superficially so as not to offend anyone.  <br />Although we need more books like this, I have a few criticisms about Loewen's style and breadth of subjects.  Although he is a competent writer, he tends to use a page worth of writing to make a point that could have been made in a couple of sentences.  He also tends to repeat the same point over and over again to the point of becoming annoying. While the book contains some fascinating information, it was tedious to read.<br />Another criticism that I have is that the most of the book has one central theme: The injustices that surround  America's (and the early explorers) treatment of African and Native Americans.  While I was fascinated by this information, the title of the book, and the cover notes, implied that the book is much broader in scope.  I was disappointed to find that more aspects of our history were not covered.<br />Another annoyance was that  Loewen seemed to use the same tactics that he accuses history texts of. He tends to use select bits of information to support his thesis and not consider all interpretations of a incident.  He summarily discounts positions contrary to his own, without providing evidence to support this stance.  <br />Although I have some problems with this book I was impressed with it overall. This is a much-needed book and should beread by anyone that teaches or has an interest in American history.  It is time for us to stop sugar-coating our past.	2001-07-10
US	52928084	R1OBYLZ4EMA8SC	0671695886	316822403	Desert Solitaire	Books	5	16	18	N	N	A very enjoyable book!	I've lived in the desert southwest for almost 30 years and have read many books about the area.  Surprisingly, I never read one of Abbey's books until now.  I guess something else always appealed to me more on the bookstore shelves.<br />As many reviewers have pointed out, Abbey captures the true feeling that one gets when surrounded by the beauty of the desert.  It's true that there are other books out there that have also achieved this.  What made this book special for me were the author's writing skills.  He is truly a gifted writer and knows how to use language.  This book is a real pleasure to read.<br />As I read the book I tried to glean a little about the man - Edward Abbey.  As a resident of the Sonoran Desert, his name comes up frequently when environmental champions are listed.  He is a man that truly believes that the deserts, and all wilderness areas for that matter, are sacred.  They are areas to be preserved and enjoyed -- untouched, whenever possible, by the hand of man.  What surprised me about this book is that Abbey describes how he engaged in some activities that seem to contradict this philosophy.  A few that come to mind:  Smashing a rabbit's head in with a rock, not for food, but just to see if he can.  Killing a rattlesnake with a shovel just because it lives around his trailer and he is afraid that someday it \\"might\\" bite him.  Recalling a large brush fire that he accidentally set in a wilderness area, not with remorse, but with humor.  Rolling an old tire off the rim of a pristine part of the Grand Canyon just so he could watch it bounce of off the canyon walls (and leaving it there as trash on the canyon floor).  He does not seem ashamed of any of these actions.  However, I'm sure that if he saw one of the \\"automobile tourists\\" that he seems to loathe do any of these things that he would go on an irate tirade.  However, although I found these types of things to be a little hypocritical, I respect Abbey candidness - other authors would havejust left these transgressions out. <br />This is a wonderful book and should be on the bookshelf of anyone that enjoys nature. If you live in the desert - read this book - you will love it.  Even if you a thousand miles away from a desert - read this book - you will love it.  Abbey takes you on a journey to a special place that you will enjoy immensely.	2001-07-09
US	52928084	R35OBIX06PM3O3	0966994523	519693863	Arizona Myths, Fallacies and Misconceptions	Books	5	5	5	N	Y	Interesting and informative.	This is a great book for those with a skeptical nature.  If you tend not to believe everything that you hear or read, then you'll thoroughly enjoy this book.   It is full of surprising facts and information.  If you want to learn more about Arizona, then this book is a great place to start.	2001-05-31
US	52928084	R25SE0P657DRYN	0609605623	167861612	You're Fifty-Now What?: Investing for the Second Half of Your Life	Books	4	56	57	N	N	A good resource for us aging boomers.	I've read many personal finance books and none of them was perfect.  Every person's situation is different and what works for one person may not work for another.  However, out of all of the books that I've read in this genre, this was one of the better ones.  <br />The book is intended for someone that is in the later stages of their working life who expects to retire in the not too distant future.  Although the title of the book implies that it was written for someone in their 50s, the book is really intended for anyone that is in the latter half of their working career.  I am in my forties and felt that this book had a lot to offer.  Schwab offers advice on how to invest in preparation for your retirement, and what to do with your investments after you retire.  Although the book does not assume that everyone has built up a nice nest egg by the time that they're fifty, it acknowledges that those that haven't are going to have a some of catching-up to do.  <br />Schwab does have an aggressive bias when it comes to investing.  He recommends a portfolio that is heavily weighted in stocks even after you retire.  This is contrary to the traditional weighting recommended by most other sources.  His rationale for this approach is that retirement is much longer now than in the past. People are living longer.  The returns that you get with a traditional conservative portfolio may not last your lifetime.  He also feels that the income that you'll need after you retire is often understated by many financial planners.  Although we live longer, the older we get the more unexpected expenses we may incur (medical, long-term care, etc).  Although he acknowledges the risks with this approach, he points out that there are risks with the conservative approach also - that your savings will run out when you need it most. <br />In addition to investing, Schwab covers other topics such as types of insurance that will make your retirement years less risky for you and your family (life, health, disability, long-term care, etc).  <br />Schwab includes a chapter on charitable giving and stresses how important it is for all of us to give back to their community.  Like other texts, he summarizes some of the tax advantages of giving, but he truly seems to believe that those fortunate enough to have accumulated some wealth need to consider returning some of it to a cause that they believe in.  I thought that this chapter was nice touch and a departure from the \\"show me the money\\" attitude that is the cornerstone of most personal finance books.<br />This book is not perfect and may not be for everyone, but if you are in the latter half of your working career, I think that you will enjoy and benefit from this book.	2001-03-19
US	52928084	R20V83HOZ5YKZV	0375503668	444467043	World War 3.0 : Microsoft and Its Enemies	Books	5	12	15	N	N	Well researched and insightful.	I purchased this title on a whim.  Although I followed \\"the trial\\" as it was being reported in the media I did not find the proceedings, as they were described in the press, to be that interesting.  I also knew that whatever happened, this case would be appealed and last for several more years.  Consequently, I did not have high expectations for this book.  I was pleasantly surprised to find out that this book was much more interesting and insightful that I had imagined.  Auletta does an excellent job of describing the background, tactics, technical issues, personalities, and legal issues that surrounded this trial.  Unlike other reports on the trial, he did not just encapsulate the events that took place in the courtroom.  Instead, he spent considerable effort to research, then explain, events that went on behind the scenes - before, during, and after the trial.<br />The spin that was often portrayed in the media was that Microsoft was being victimized or punished just for being successful.  The Microsoft media machine did an excellent job of promoting this view either through tactics such as full-page ads in newspapers or Gate's (and others) frequent appearances on television.  While I have never been a big fan of Microsoft, part of me started to believe them.  After reading this book however, any sympathy that I had for Microsoft, as it relates to the trial, has been erased.  Auletta's recounting of the trial makes it clear that they used their monopolistic power to attempt to control or quash any company that threatened the market dominance of any of their core products.  In short, they were unwilling to \\"play fair\\" and let the best products win in the marketplace.   <br />Some members of the media portrayed Judge Jackson as someone that may have had a grudge against Microsoft.  The facts imply that he started out with the fairly impartial attitude.  It was Microsoft's frequent and blatant deception, and their inability to any admit guilt even when such guilt was proven, that frustrated the judge.  This frustration was evident in some of the language that he used when he wrote his final opinions and findings.<br />If you have an interest in technology, business, or just like a good courtroom drama, then I think that you will enjoy this selection.  It is insightful and written in style that holds your attention.	2001-03-14
US	52928084	R2N83U6BMX0M06	1579543669	449370078	The Men's Health Longevity Program: A 12-Week Plan to Bolster Your Health, Get Lean, Boost Your Brainpower, Power Up, Feel Great Now and Later, Keep the Sex Hot	Books	5	19	20	N	N	Good advice on how to look and feel better	I was a little leery about purchasing this book.  So many of the diet or fitness books that are available are either full of \\"fluff\\" and contain little valuable information or they are filled with trendy, speculative, and untested recommendations.  I was pleasantly surprised by this one.  This program is filled with solid advice on a variety of topics including exercise, diet, relaxation, and supplements.  It even has sections that deal with hair care, skin care, grooming, and clothing styles. <br />The basic premise of this book is that if you exercise, eat well, and feel good about yourself, you will live a longer and happier life.  The book is divided into 12 weeks, with each week focusing on a certain topic (e.g. eating healthy).  Each day of the week, you are given an \\"assignment\\" to do.  An assignment may be to do some upper body exercises or buy some grooming products.  In theory, you are supposed to follow this routine by reading and completing each day's assignment on that day, then read and complete the next assignment tomorrow, and so on. In reality, most people will probably do what I did and read this like any other book, over a couple of days. <br />The recommendations in this book seem to be based on reputable scientific research.  It is apparent that they authors have done their homework and they often provide quotes from various experts or research studies.  I was also please to learn that their recommendation seemed to be very current.  Even research that was published within the last year or so is quoted in this book.<br />It is apparent that several authors wrote this book and I found a couple of instances where the book contradicts itself.  Example: In one chapter they warn against running with hand weights because it alters your natural stride and this can cause problems. In a later chapter, hand weights are recommended as way to slow yourself down if you run faster than your running partner.  None of these contradictions are material though and this is a minor criticism. <br />This is a review of the unabridged AUDIBLE.COM (downloadable audio) version of this book.  The only problem with this format, for this type of book, is that this book often list items (e.g. foods you should buy).  Unless you have paper handy, and can write fast, you'll miss these.  The book also describes various exercise or stretching techniques.  The verbal descriptions are OK, but without a drawing or photo to show you how to perform the maneuvers, it is often difficult to translate the words into actions.<br />Overall I was very pleased with this purchase. If you want to improve the way you look and feel, I'd highly recommend this book.	2001-03-08
US	52928084	R37LLZSGEJ6SK9	071674161X	379897019	How We Believe: The Search for God in an Age of Science	Books	4	41	50	N	N	Interesting and well-written, but don't expect too much	I have the same feelings about this book as I do for Shermer's \\"Why People Believe Weird Things.\\"  I enjoyed reading both  books but felt they were lacking in substance. This book, however, is guiltier of that offense than the former one.  In  \\"Why We Believe\\" Shermer does a good job of conveying his opinion on god and religion and he does present facts and logical argument to bolster his case.  Basically, Shermer considers himself to be an agnostic.  However, the agnostic position is an easy one to support.  As an agnostic, you are saying that you either don't have enough information to take a position and/or you  really don't care either way.  One of Shermer's main conclusions seems to be that questions such as, \\"Is there a god?\\" can never be answered with any certainty.  Once that position has been taken, it seems pointless to continue the text.  <br />Given the title of the book, I expected this book to contain more information on why humans seem to have an innate need to believe in god, afterlives, and the supernatural.  Shermer does propose his concept of a \\"belief engine\\" in which this topic is addressed to a certain extent.  Maybe my expectations were too high, but I felt that this topic, which I assumed would be the central thesis of the book, was covered rather briefly. <br />My other main criticism for this book, and his other one, is that the author tends to include chapters that are somewhat off the topic.  In this book, for example, Shermer discuss the millennium and all of the hype, paranoia  and misguided information about it.  This is an interesting and timely topic (given that the book was published in 1999) but it is a departure from the central topic of the book,<br />Although I do have these misgivings about the book, I did enjoy it.  Shermer has a nice writing style and it is an enjoyable read.  I did like the way that he weaves his own personal experiences and beliefs throughout the book.  I thought that the book could have included more \\"substance\\" but I did learn some things.  I have no regrets about purchasing,  and spending the time to read,  the book.  If this is a topic that interests you, I think that you will enjoy this book, but keep your expectations low.	2001-02-21
US	52928084	R3HSU9KJPY9RW3	0684849143	103946658	Why We Buy: The Science Of Shopping	Books	4	12	13	N	N	Interesting at first, but then becomes tedious to read.	This book explores the psychology, sociology, and ergonomics of shopping and retail display in depth. During the first several chapters of this book I was fascinated by some of the facts and anecdotal stories that the author presented.  This fascination lasted for about half the book however.  As the book progresses the author drifts from his presentation of the science of shopping to his endless, but often unsupported, suggestions on how shipping can be improved.  <br />The early chapters contain more descriptions of actual studies on shopping that Underhill's consulting firm has done.  Whether you're a casual shopper or the owner of a retail store, these chapters are loaded with useful information.   The author explains how simple changes to product display or packaging can make dramatics changes in the volume of product purchased.  In the later chapters, it almost seems as though the author has run out of material. Instead of describing actual case studies, the author goes on a length with his personal opinions on how shopping could be improved today and how it will change in the future.  <br />Some of his suggestion seemed pretty wild.  Designer toilet paper??  Other suggestions he makes just don't seem to be reasonable to me as a consumer. Example: He suggests that computer stores don't put all of the software, printers, monitors, etc in separate sections but rather disperse them throughout the store.  I don't know about Mr. Underhill, but when I go out to buy a monitor or printer, I want to see them all side-by-side so I can compare them.  I don't want to run around the store trying to find them all. He has countless similar suggestions that seem dubious to me and are not backed up by any of his research.  <br />His predictions for the future also seem rather odd.  Example:  As baby boomers age we'll see companies like Harley Davidson making sporty wheelchairs so upscale boomers can transition from their Harley cycles to their Harley wheelchairs.<br />It is clear that the author is not thrilled about online shopping.   Although some of his suggestion for how to change it indicates that he has not had much experience with it.  He recommends that sites do things that they are actually doing today.   Example: Why can't we order groceries online?  - You can in most major cities Mr. Underhill.<br />If you're in the retail business, you can probably learn a lot from this book despite the negatives I mentioned.  I'd recommend it for anyone in this line of business.  If you're just looking for an interesting book about shopping, I think that you too will have mixed feelings.  It starts out interesting, but soon becomes tedious to read.  <br />This a review of the unabridged Audible.com version of this book (downloadable audio).  This is an excellent audio version and the reader was one of the best I`ve heard.	2001-02-15
US	52928084	R1OFNJ5QVGHO6R	0380713799	533233342	Don't Know Much About Geography: Everything You Need to Know About the World but Never Learned	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Interesting look at planet Earth	I had purchased the audio version of the author's \\"Don't Know Much About History\\" and had enjoyed it.  I decided to purchase this selection and was not disappointed.    <br />The title of this book is a little misleading, as the topics are not limited to geography.  The author also covers related topics such as meteorology and climatology, world economics, astronomy, political history. and others.  This book focuses on two major types of information:  (1) Things you probably learned in school and wish that you could remember --  but don't; (2) Unusual or surprising facts that you probably never knew.  Like the \\"History\\" book, this one was written in a question and answer format.  This technique allows the author to cover various snippets of information and jump around from topic to topic.  Although some people like this technique,  if you prefer books that flow naturally from topic to topic, this style may annoy you after a while.  <br />I agree with some reviewers that the author does tend to interject his personal beliefs and biases into the text.  However, when he does so, he tries to back these up with facts.  I did not find his commentary to be a negative, but rather found that they made the book more interesting.  <br />Note: This is a review of the AUDIBLE.COM audio version of the book  (abridged).  This audio version was fairly lively and easy to listen to.  They tried to use a variety of readers to spice it up (one voice would ask a question and another would give the answer).  I enjoyed it on my long commutes to work.	2001-02-08
US	52928084	R25EMLQOJLUULD	078710261X	395117488	Art & Skill of Conversation	Books	2	42	43	N	N	Covers the basics, but that's about all.	I purchased the Audible.com version of this selection and was very disappointed.   For the most part the authors focus on very basic conversational skills  (the importance of listening, don't interrupt, know what the topic is before you join a conversation, etc).  I had hope that this selection would have more information on how to refine or further develop one's conversation skills. <br />I thought that the example conversations on the tape were pretty silly.   If I ran into someone that spoke like that, I'd be looking for door and a way to get out of the conversation.<br />If you're looking for a tape on very basic conversational skills you may benefit from this selection.  If you're looking for something more, then I think that you too will be disappointed.	2001-02-06
US	52928084	RYZ3OQWRN9XML	0385334850	762384767	God's Equation: Einstein, Relativity, and the Expanding Universe	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Interesting and well-written.	This is a review of the AUDIBLE.COM version of this book. <br />Although I enjoy books on science, I was hesitant to purchase this one.  I am not very interested in mathematics and was unsure how interesting the book would be.  I was surprised to discover that this is a thoroughly enjoyable book.  Aczel is able to take topics that many people would consider to be dry and uninteresting (unless you're a mathematician) and weave them in a captivating tale.  Through Einstein's writings and those of others, we follow Einstein along his life's journey as he developed his theory general relatively and ultimately to his search for the structure of the universe.  Along the way we meet many interesting physicists, mathematicians, and astronomers - each of which adds another piece to the puzzle or provides real-world proof of Einstein's theories.<br />Even if you have a mild interest in Einstein and theoretical physics I think that you will enjoy this book.	2001-02-05
US	52928084	R25Y5F79V217TI	0060957360	566883199	The Best American Science Writing 2000	Books	4	15	16	N	N	Interesting, but not &quot;The Best&quot;	Although I enjoyed most of the articles, this was not exactly what I was expecting.  It appears as though many of the articles came out of popular non-scientific publications (many from the N.Y. Times) and were written for a mainstream audience.  Too many of them were articles of the \\"I'm a scientist and here's my story . . .\\" genre.   One story was about an author's \\"nervous breakdown\\" and his decision to pursue a career in music rather than chemistry. A few were about the practice of medicine or medical research.  They were interesting articles but didn't contain as much scientific information as I expected - I didn't really learn that much.  I don't want to sound overly negative.  I did enjoy many of the selections. However, calling this \\"The Best\\" science writing of the year is a real stretch.	2001-02-05
US	52928084	RCFPCXQ9RXR3F	0380712520	586173981	Don't Know Much About History: Everything You Need to Know About American History but Never Learned	Books	5	29	29	N	N	Interesting Overview of American History (warts and all)	Although I'm an avid non-fiction reader, my tastes run more towards the sciences. While I do read a lot about Arizona history ( I live there)  I must admit that I haven't read much on general American history since I left school.  I decided to download the unabridged audio version of this book from AUDIBLE.COM. <br />In the book, Davis gives a fairly complete overview of the most significant people and events in American history.  His writing style is casual, almost folksy.   I particularly appreciated the fact that the author discusses both the good and the bad of American history.  While I am proud to be part of this great nation, there are many events in our history that we should not be proud of - things that were not discussed in your high school history class.  As other reviewers have pointed out, the author occasionally injects his own biases into the text.  But, when he does, he backs up these beliefs with facts that are hard to dispute.  Whether you're a history buff or someone that just wants to learn more about this country, this is a great text.  I plan to read the other \\"Don't know Much...\\" books by this author.<br />Comments specific to the audible.com version:  The reader is Dick Estell (of Radio Reader fame).  He does an excellent job.  His voice is clear and has a lively tone to it - perfect for those long commutes	2001-01-29
US	52928084	R2JESKKAB05H8P	0465036279	200229621	Everything You Think You Know About Politics...and Why You're Wrong	Books	5	15	17	N	N	An informative and entertaining book on politics.	I just finished listening to the audible.com version of this fascinating book by Kathleen Hall Jamieson.  The book is filled with interesting and, at times, surprising facts about politics and political campaigning.  What I particularly liked about this book is that its claims are based on research and hard evidence.  The author is not just spouting her opinions, but backs up her assertions with evidence.  It is clear that a lot of work went into the preparation of this text.  <br />The book is written in a lively, concise, and entertaining style and should appeal to all types of readers, even those that might not normally read a book on politics. <br />If I had a criticism it is that the title overstates what the book really contains.  While this book did change some of my beliefs about politics, it did not make a wholesale change in my understanding of our political system.  But, catchy titles sell books so I am not going to fault the author or publisher (too much) for wanting to make this book commercially successful.  My only other negative comment is that this book focuses almost entirely on politics and campaigning as they related to the presidency.  Information on congressional and local politics is sparse. <br />The audible.com version was read by the author is she does a very good job.  She has a clear, upbeat tempo that makes it easy to listen to.  <br />Whether you're a political junkie who can't get enough of CSPAN, or someone that would just like to learn more about our political system,  I think that you will enjoy reading (or listening to) this wonderful book.	2001-01-03
US	52928084	R3LCL8F86KATW	1558215239	822987563	Outwitting Critters	Books	5	7	7	N	Y	Critter problems?  Buy this book.	This is a very well-written and thorough book.  Almost every possible creature is covered.  Alligators sunbathing in your yard?  Termites eating you out of house and home? Bats in your attic?  Slugs in your garden?   Raccoons getting into your garbage? Coyotes roaming your property.? No matter what critter is causing you a problem, this book offers possible solutions.   <br />Each of these topics is covered in detail.  It is apparent that the author has done extensive research to ensure that the information is complete and factual.   The book explains what attracts various creatures and what damage they may cause.   He also explains how to repel them and/or remove them if they have invaded your house or property.   The recommendations provided are non-lethal, environmental-friendly solutions.  The book's appendix also lists a wide variety of resources that you can contact to obtain more information or purchase some of the critter control products recommended in the text.<br />If you have a problem with some kind of critter then this is the book for you.	2000-12-01
US	52928084	R21C9D8EDT16WC	0961822724	122174738	The Prepublishing Handbook: What You Should Know Before You Publish Your First Book	Books	4	14	14	N	Y	A good resource, but some information is outdated	This is one of the better books on self-publishing. Although it's only about 100 pages, it contains a lot of useful information.  I appreciate the fact that this author has actually self-published her own books.  You may be surprised to learn that several of the self-publishing books that I read were written by authors that had never self-published a book.    <br />The major negative comment that I have about this book that it was published back in 1992.  Much has changed since then and some of the information is outdated.  This is the reason that I cannot give it 5 stars.  I hope that the author is working on an updated edition.  <br />If you plan to self-publishing a book, this would be a good book to start with, but I would recommend that you also purchase some other books that have more recent publication dates.	2000-11-28
US	52928084	R3UFBTXC6KCAVJ	0966530616	752312235	The Publishing List: The Self-Publishers' Book of Essential Information	Books	3	3	3	N	Y	Some useful information, but overall dissappointing.	What I liked about this book was that the information in it was pretty current.  Some of the other books on this subject haven't been updated for years.  It did contain a lot of useful information and I don't regret buying it,. However,  I can't rate it very high for several reasons.  <br />In the introduction, the author goes on at great length about how this book is so much better than other self-publishing books.   He alleges that it provides information that no other book does.   One of the author's claims is that his book breaks the \\"unspoken industry silence.\\"  This book is supposed to provide information that other books won't.  The problems is that when you get to the sections where you expect to get this \\"inside information,\\" you read things like: \\"It would not be fair to disclose which sellers, wholesalers, and distributors will negotiate better terms . . .  .\\"   Based on the Introduction I thought that this book was going to contain a lot of information that was unavailable in other books.  Needless to say, I was disappointed.   This book contains useful information but it is not superior to other self-publishing books.  I would recommend purchasing books by authors such as Poynter, Ross &amp; Ross, Cardoza or Brownstone before this one.<br />The title of this book suggests that it will contain lists and about one third of the book is a collection of  \\"industry addresses.\\"  There are a lot of helpful addresses here but the font used on this list is rather large and spacing is generous. In many cases there are only about 4 addresses per page.   Another 35 pages consist of copies of Sample Forms (e.g ISBN application form, sample packing slip).   The sample forms have been made so small as to almost be unreadable and there is no accompanying text to explain specific information about the contents of the forms.  It seems to me that these sections were included just to add pages and make the book thicker.<br />Overall it's  not a bad book, but there are better ones out there.	2000-10-30
US	52928084	R1NVVQT1R0I1BL	0672314843	598488101	Mastering Microsoft Access 2000 Development	Books	5	26	26	N	Y	Well-written and thorough.  Highly recommended.	I've read countless software books over the many years that I've been in this business and this one is one of the best.  It is incredibly thorough and very well organized. Everything is explained in detail, yet it is written in an easy-to-read style.  There are many examples (code is on the CD) and numerous screen shots.  In addition to the standard text, the book is filled with sidebars entitled \\"Tips,\\" \\"Cautions,\\" and \\"Notes.\\"   <br />So many recent computer books seem to be just thrown together so that they can get it on the shelves while the version of the software that they are covering is still current.  They are filled with typos, errors, and leave out important information.  While I'm sure a book of this size may have some errors or typos in it, I haven't run across a single one yet.  <br />A word of caution: This book is not for beginners.  Although some basic concepts are covered, the book assumes that you are already familiar with ACCESS and database programming.<br />If you're an ACCESS developer or just someone that want to go beyond the basics with ACCESS then this book needs to be part of your library.	2000-10-27
US	52928084	R2UWK95DZAI7G3	0521627400	508755608	Astrophotography for the Amateur	Books	5	15	16	N	Y	An excellent resource for both novices and pros	Although photography has been a hobby of mine for years, I recently became interested in astronomy.  I bought this book to learn how to combine these two hobbies.   <br />This is an excellent resource.  If you're just starting out, this book covers the basics and explains things that even a novice like me can understand.  As your skill level advances this book will continue to be an excellent resource. It is filled with detailed technical information on scopes, mounts, lenses, films, techniques and just about anything you need to know on this subject.  I agree with other reviewers that the book does not cover CCD photography in depth.  CCD  hardware/software seems to be changing at such a rapid pace.  It would be difficult to write a detailed text on this subject that would not be out of date in a couple of years.<br />Overall, I rate this book very highly and recommend if for both novices and pros.	2000-10-27
US	52928084	R1YY95PXGPNO85	0761119116	610153358	365 New Words a Year Calendar: 2001	Books	5	18	18	N	N	Build your vocablulary day by day	I received one of these as a gift and have enjoyed starting my day by reading about today's word.  One the front of each page the word is given as well as the definition.  The word is then used in a sentence.  There is a pretty good variety of words. Some of the them are obscure or no longer used.  Other words represent recent addition to our language (\\"cyberpunk\\", \\"vaporware').  On the flip side of each page the origin of the word is given in detail.  It's clear that the publishers did their research on each of these words and the description of the origin are often provided in great detail.<br />This is a great gift for the avid reader, lexicographer (the word for 10/16/00), or anyone that wants to build their vocabulary.	2000-10-27
US	52928084	R23S7K86BQGQ1D	1881539148	616597120	Smart Self-Publishing: An Author's Guide to Producing a Marketable Book	Books	4	10	10	N	N	A good book for the beginning self publisher.	There are dozens of books written on self-publishing and this is one of the better ones.  The author covers the basics in reasonably good detail.  The writing style is light and easy-to-read.   The book is also full of examples of books that were self-published and what these authors did to ensure their book's success.<br />The authors advocates the use of \\"Book Packagers,\\"  and in many respects the book assumes that you will be working with a Packager.  Passages like \\"be sure to ask your Book Packager about this. . . \\"  are found throughout the book.  A Book Packager is someone that is hired to actually produce the book.  They act somewhat like a building contractor.  You make basic decisions regarding the book, and the copyright is in your name, but the Packager does all (or most) of the work. Packagers are a good alternative for someone that has neither the time nor inclination to take the \\"do it yourself\\" route.  A good Packager can also ensure that book is produced in a professional manner.  The major disadvantage is that it will add to your costs.  Given the razor thin profit margins on books these days, you need to determine if you can really afford this option.<br />I haven't found one book on self-publishing that covers everything well.  If you really want to learn how to produce and sell your own book I'd recommend purchasing a couple of titles.   Other books to consider those by Poynter, Cardoza, Ross &amp; Ross,  or  Brownstone.	2000-10-25
US	52928084	R3803HIFW9AZ61	1887110127	45269390	Instant Expert: Science Fiction (Instant Expert (National Book Network))	Books	4	6	7	N	Y	Good resource for the Sci-Fi collector	This is an excellent book for anyone interested in collecting sci-fi books.  The author does a good job of summarizing the history of science fiction, notable titles, publishers, authors, and illustrators.   If you're new to book collecting, the book tells you how to start a collection, how to grade a book's condition, or determine if a book is  \\"collectible.\\"  The author focuses mostly on collecting paperback editions.  While the book does give a few prices on some select books, this is not a \\"pricing guide\\" (a book that lists titles and gives their prices).    My only negative comment is that the book is a little pricey given it's size.	2000-10-24
US	52928084	R1CRQU1FZU1SPX	0764103229	615121004	Over 300 Successful Business Letters for All Occasions	Books	5	59	61	N	Y	A very useful reference source	This book seems to cover just about any business letter that you might ever need.  The book itself is divided into 16 chapters covering  topics such as LETTERS OF INQUIRY, BUSINESS ANNOUNCEMENTS, INVITATIONS, and COLLECTION LETTERS.  In addition to providing many examples of letters the book also covers issues and approaches to creating letter for various reasons.  This is helpful if you do not want to use the example, but still need guidance on how to compose a letter on a certain topic.  The book also provides what it calls \\"useful sentences\\" that you can plug into a letter of your own design.  There is also a \\"quick reference appendix\\" that show Forms of Addresses (if you're writing to a politician or dignitary), common spelling and grammar mistakes, and other helpful pieces of information.  Overall I rate this book very highly and think that it should be on the bookshelf of anyone that writes formal business or personal letters.	2000-10-24
US	52928084	R1PUU21JW9KQPU	0399519785	725681493	Book Finds: How to Find, Buy, and Sell Used and Rare Books	Books	5	107	111	N	Y	A must-have for book book lovers.	I started to become interested in book collecting about 2 years ago and this was one of the first books that I purchased.  It is an excellent book for a beginning collector.   The author describes the history of book production and how books are produced in modern times.  There is also a very good chapter on the grading of books, and how to determine if a book is \\"collectible.\\"  Another chapter describes ways to determine if a book by a certain publisher is a first edition.  However, if you plan to collect rare, old books then this text may not be the best for you.  The focus of this book is on collecting modern first editions.<br />Although it's full of facts, the book is written in a light, easy-to-read style.  The author is an avid book collector and he provides plenty of anecdotes about his experiences.   <br />The author assumes that the reader is interested in book collecting both for pleasure and for profit.  He explains in detail how to acquire collectible books as inexpensively as possible by using trade-ins.   <br />The book claims to contain a list of the \\"1000 Most Collectible Books and Authors.\\"  This list is a little subjective however.  The author even admits that what may be collectible now, may have little value later.  What may be collectible to one person may be just another used book to another.  Don't assume that every book on the list will be valuable.<br />If you collect books, or plan to start a collection, this book should be part of library.	2000-10-24
US	52928084	R2NTRDYLE1SYQR	0684814005	240970415	BEST BIKE PATHS OF THE SOUTHWEST : Safe, Scenic and Traffic-Free Bicycling	Books	5	25	25	N	N	Nice collection of Bike paths in the southwest	This book covers bike paths  and routes in several cities in Arizona (14 routes), Southern California (6 routes), Northern California (26 routes), Nevada  (2 routes) and Utah (8 routes).  There are no maps of the routes but the author does a pretty good job of describing them.    The descriptions are pretty detailed including such things as places to park, restroom locations, places to eat, level of difficulty, and condition of pavement.  <br />This book seems to be written with the casual cyclist in mind.  If you're looking for a route where you can \\"hammer\\" out 40 miles at a fast pace then this book is not for you.  If you're looking for a place to enjoy a leisurely weekend ride with friends or children, then this book was designed with you in mind,  For example, in their level of difficulty ranking the authors consider a 3-mile route with rolling hills to be \\"challenging.\\"<br />The only negative comment I have about the book was that it was written about 5 years ago so some of these routes may have changed over the years.  For most of the routes, the author does provide a phone number to call to get more information about the route.  If you're traveling to a new area and plan to ride one of these routes you may want to call ahead of time to make sure the route or bike path still exists or has not changed.	2000-10-20
US	52928084	RZZJ80ED19U2S	0201658976	194092066	Adobe(R) PageMaker(R) 6.5 Plus Productivity Kit (Classroom in a Book)	Books	5	18	18	N	Y	Create professional looking business documents with PM 6.5+	This book is a great way to learn how to use PageMaker if you are relatively new to this product.  The projects in this book are business related and cover a wide range of items (business cards, mailers, flyers, menus, postcards, letterhead, etc).  For some of the projects, the book assumes that you have purchased certain Avery brand products to print on.  The nice thing is that it tells you the item number of the Avery product that you need.    <br />The instructions are clear and the authors cover both the Mac and Windows environment.   Even if you have little experience with graphic arts, this book shows you how to achieve very professional results.  The projects are also graded by difficulty.  If you're new to this product you can start with some easy ones, then advance to more challenging ones later.  I've found that it is a good way to learn how to use PageMaker's numerous features.  <br />Even if you are a \\"PageMaker pro\\"  I think that this book will give you some great ideas on ways to design various business related documents.	2000-10-10
US	52928084	R1IL5GQWS39E8E	078212187X	794951761	Web Pages That Suck: Learn Good Design by Looking at Bad Design	Books	5	15	18	N	N	Very helpful (and fun) book on web design	Of the 3 or 4 web page design books that I've purchased this one is the best by far.  Be examining the common mistakes people make when putting together a web site the authors illustrate good web page design principles.  They use examples from actual commercial sites on the web, telling you what's wrong with them and what they did right.  The writing style is light and the book is full of humor (what did you expect with a title like that).  However, don't let this fool you into thinking that the book doesn't have any \\"meat\\" in it.  While the authors are designers by background, they also seem to know a lot of the technical aspects about the web.  They cover the latest technologies (as of 1998) and tell you how to use them. More importantly, they tell you when not to use them.  <br />These guys definitely feel that it's best to avoid \\"bleeding edge\\" techniques.    They are also advocate the principle of keeping things simple.  Many the sites that they think \\"suck\\" are one with an overuse of animation, strange colors, or flashy techniques.    They also point out sites that may look good on one browser at one resolution but may look terrible when viewed on another -- then they show you how to avoid this problem.  <br />It appears as though their target audience is someone that is designing a site for commercial purposes.  This book was not specifically intended for the person putting together a family web page.  That being said, I think that anyone that's designing for the web will learn a great deal by reading this book.<br />My only criticism for this book is that it probably needs to be updated.  It is currently a couple of years old and some technologies have change since it was written.	2000-09-27
US	52928084	R14387B6QPSWC	1566091594	89907476	The Non-Designer's Design Book: Design and Typographic Principles for the Visual Novice	Books	4	8	9	N	Y	Wonderful book for us novices - lacks color though.	I am a \\"non-designer\\" and purchased this book to learn more about basic design principles.   I must admit that it was very helpful. The author covers many important aspect of good design such as repetition, placement, typography, and others.  The writing style is light and the author tries to inject a lot of humor into her work.  A good part of the book is devoted to typography and I found it to be especially helpful for me.  This section provided me with some very good ideas.    The only negative comment that I have about the book is that it has a section on the use of color.  The problem: The book is entirely done in black and white.  Although it would have added to the cost of producing the book , I think that they should have added a few color illustrations to illustrate the principles on color that they were trying to explain.   Instead, I suppose that you are supposed to use your imagination.   This book retails for $15 and is only 144 pages, some color could have been added, and the book could still have been profitable.    <br />Overall, I think that it is a very good book.  It's a little pricey (although most graphic design books tend to be) for what you get but I don't regret purchasing it. If you're a non-designer, and want to learn more about graphic design, then you will benefit from this book.	2000-09-27
US	52928084	R1OP0E25CMFKUN	026273060X	881182451	Bicycling Science, Second Edition	Books	4	6	8	N	N	Everything you ever wanted to know about cycling	I never knew that so much research was available on cycling until I read this book. The authors cover bicycle history, human power generation, wind resistance, braking, the wheel, balance, drag and many other topics.  What makes this book unique is that it is not full of a lot of generalizations or &quot;advice from a pro.&quot;  This book is based on the physics and biology of human powered vehicles.  It's full of charts, schematics, and formulas.  Flip through some of the pages and at times you'd think that you were looking at a physics book.<br />If you're looking for a book to teach you how to ride in a pack, what to take on a bike tour, or which type of bike to purchase then this is not the book for you.  If you're an avid cyclist and want to learn more about the science behind cycling then you'll enjoy this book.<br />Although this is a great book I can't give it 5 stars because of the date.  It was written in 1984 and a lot has changed since then.  Much of the basic science in the book remains the same but technology and bicycle materials have evolved.  I hope the authors are working on an updated edition.	2000-09-26
US	52928084	R3V6390VDQW0Q2	0961809434	791262302	The History of Arizona	Books	3	3	3	N	N	Not a bad book, but title is misleading	This is an interesting book and full of facts about the history of Arizona but the title is  misleading.  The author does not cover the history of the state,  It would be hard to imagine that anyone could in a small format paperback with about 170 pages.  Instead there are about 20 brief chapters each briefly describing a specific event or topic.  For example there is a chapter on the Bisbee Deportation and another on Higher Education in Arizona.  The topics are sporadic and probably reflect areas that interest the author.  If you really want to learn about the history of the state, Sheridan's book \\"Arizona\\" is a much better source.  Trimble's books are also good and often entertaining.	2000-09-26
US	52928084	R3DT6CUU0S7L1A	0449909085	689888210	The Only Book:  A Compendium of One-Of-A-Kind Facts	Books	3	29	30	N	Y	Intersting book, but not great	There were a lot of interesting facts in this pocketsize book. It's written in a lively, question and answer format.  I can't rate this any higher than 3 stars for a couple of reasons.  First, I found a few errors in it.  Example:  The book states that pigs are the only non-human animals that can sunburn.  That  is incorrect.  Any animal whose skin is exposed to the sun too long will experience \\"sunburn.\\"  The other thing that I did not like about the book is that one third of the book is on sports trivia.  If you are looking for sports trivia then you may consider this be a plus.  I didn't. The cover of the book would leave you to believe that it is a general trivia book that focuses on many areas.   If I wanted a sport trivia book, I would have bought one.  Other than these few negatives, it's not a bad book.	2000-09-21
US	52928084	R1P1PNA69R2P5L	0882404342	174040195	The Great Southwest Nature Factbook: A Guide to the Region's Remarkable Animals, Plants, and Natural Features	Books	5	10	10	N	Y	Full of interesting facts about the southwest	This was an interesting and well-written book.  I'm sorry to see that it's out of print.  It contains a lot of  interesting information on the desert's plans, animals, and  geology.  It appeared to be very well researched. and the author seemed to have a great appreciation for this unique part of the country.  If you are interested in the desert I would recommend that you try to find a copy of this book.	2000-09-21
US	52928084	R10TXNC57S51K4	0816515158	974999155	Arizona: A History	Books	5	43	43	N	N	One of the best books on Arizona history	I've read several books on Arizona history and in many ways this is one of the best.  I think that there are several things that set this book apart.   First, it is very thorough.  Each of its 400 plus pages is filled with fact  and information.  Additionally, it covers some topics in more depth than  similar books.   For example, this book contains a lot of information about  early Hispanic settlers, their history and impact on the state.  Other  texts seem to focus more on the history of European settlers who came to  the state.   It also seems that the author spent a lot of time researching  this book from original records and documents.  He is not just restating  information found in other history books.  If I had to come up with a  negative for this book it's that the writing style leans toward being  \\"academic.\\"  If you're looking for a \\"fun\\" book on Arizona, full of  colorful stories or humorous anecdotes, then this is not the book for you.   However, if you really want to learn about the state's history then this  book should be part of your collection.	2000-09-20
US	52928084	R3C1ZBT6RSTE5P	1877749168	955490985	The Economical Guide to Self-Publishing: How to Produce and Market Your Book on a Budget	Books	3	6	7	N	N	Good, but there are better books on the subject.	I enjoyed reading this book.  It is a good overview of self-publishing and written in a light, \\"easy-to-read\\" style. If you really wanted to learn to  self-publish however, there are better books out there. What this book  lacks is some of the detailed information that is available in other book  on this subject.  If you really want to learn to self-publish, check out  the books by Poynter, Ross &amp; Ross,  Brownstone or  Cordoza.    Unfortunately you really need to purchase a couple of these book to really  learn what you need to know.  I haven't found one of  that covers  everything in sufficient detail.	2000-09-19
US	52928084	R3OHUUJW74X40A	087842198X	824664921	Roadside History of Arizona (Roadside History Series)	Books	5	11	11	N	N	A great resource for the Arizona traveler	If you travel around Arizona (or even if you don't) this book is a nice  resource to have. Most of Arizona's major roadways are covered and the  author does a nice job of describing historical events that occurred at  various locations.  Before I bought this book, I passed many historic  locations and was never even aware of it.  Now when I travel around the  state, I can point out these historic places or explain the history behind  various small towns or landmarks (whether my fellow passengers like it or  not).   I've read several of Trimble's books and this is the one that I  refer back to the most.<br />Another reviewer stated that there were  inaccuracies in this book.  Not being a historian, I can't comment on that.   As someone who has read many books on Arizona history, I must admit that  it is annoying to read one book about an event, then read another one that  gives a very different account.  Unfortunately that is the frustrating part  about history - parts of it seem to become lost or reinterpreted as the  years pass.	2000-09-19
US	52928084	R21C6KZUFRZE11	0685453243	430976692	Pocket Guide to the Identification of First Editions	Books	4	11	13	N	Y	Good resource, a little pricey	This is a great resource if you want to try to determine if that book  you've just picked up is really a first edition.  I can't give it five  stars however because I think that it's overpriced. It has a fairly thin  paper cover and is bound with staples.	2000-09-18
US	52928084	RKOLPQY1ZRA7A	0740704877	952161076	Who Knew?	Books	3	41	42	N	Y	Interesting, but short on content	I enjoy these type of books and found it to be full of interesting facts.   I can't give it a higher rating however because, for the most part, this  book has one fact per page. It's not like the page is full of a lot of  background information either.  A fact may consist of a single sentence.   You can read the entire book in 10 or 15 minutes.	2000-09-18
US	52928084	R9R1DOUOO7RER	0878421475	120015676	Roadside Geology of Arizona	Books	5	20	21	N	N	A great book if you travel around the state	I have to admit that I am not normally interested in geology. But as I've  traveled around the state by car or bike the uniqueness of Arizona's  geology has always fascinated me.  I purchased this book on a whim and  found it to be one of my favorite books.  Now, whenever I'm going to be  traveling in a new part of the state I read about the geology of the area  that I'm traveling through.  Because this is written in a  &quot;roadside&quot; format, the book explains what you'll see as you drive  (or bicycle) through the various regions in the state.	2000-09-18
US	52928084	R29M373BYMB820	1886679096	605687138	Arizona-Sonora Desert Museum Book of Answers	Books	5	12	12	N	N	A wonderful book about this beautiful part of the country	This is a great book for anyone that wants to learn about this desert and  the plants and animals that live in it.  Unlike some of the other books  about this topic that are written in an academic/textbook style, this book  is written in a lively, question &amp; answer format and is full of  interesting and unusual facts.  I've lived in this region for over 25 years  and I learned quite a bit by reading this book.	2000-09-18
US	52928084	R1F7WVITKKMAB9	0816510741	353652538	Arizona Place Names	Books	5	6	8	N	N	If you're an Arizonan you'll enjoy this book.	Arizona has a lot of places with strange or unusual names.  Before I can  across this book I often wondered where these names came from.  If you're  interested in Arizona, it's history, or trivia about the state you'll ejoy  perusing through the pages of this book.	2000-09-18
US	52928084	R217Z605F6LEP6	034542333X	147883919	Darwin's Radio	Books	5	1	2	N	Y	Well researched and well written	I don't read a lot of science fiction anymore because so much of what is  written today is all fiction, and very little science. I doubt if many  modern sci-fi writers could pass a final exam in an introductory science  class. <br />Bear has a unique talent for combining the two -- creating an  interesting story that is based (for the most part) on scientific facts.   Darwin's Radio not only entertains but it educates. Even though it's one of  the better sci-fi books I've read lately, I was tempted to give it four  stars because the story trys to build to a climatic conclusion but fails.  Maybe my expectations were too high, but I feel that the book kind of  fizzled in the end. When taken as a whole however the book is worth the  five star rating.	2000-09-18
US	52928084	RTKE9Q89SVNS	1887576061	499370974	Bad Men: Outlaws & Gunfighters of the Wild West	Books	3	10	10	N	N	Well illustrated, interesting but disappointing	Similar to Bell's other books, the format of this book is a chronological  listing of events in the old west.  In this case they are events about  outlaws. This style of writing makes it easy to read from start to finish  or allows one to jump around from section to section without missing  anything.  While I like this format in some ways, I wish the book had more  &quot;meat&quot; to it.  The information is often nothing more than a date  and a one or two sentence description of the event that occured on that  date. I would have enjoyed the book much more, a learned more, had the  author chosen to provide more in depth information.<br />In addition to the  text, the book contain numerous photos and drawings.  From a design  standpoint it is very well done.<br />If you're fan of the old west and would  like a good resource on the dates of various events then you will  appreciate this book.  If you are not that familiar with this era, and want  to learn more, then this book may disappoint you.	2000-09-18
US	52928084	RPPPKGI6429HA	1576104087	348950305	Illustrator 8 f/x and design: Add Rich, Versatile Enhancements to Your Artwork!	Books	3	2	2	N	Y	Should be called Illustrator and Photpshop F/X and Design	Overall this is a good book but the title is misleading. It assumes that  you are working with Photoshop and Illustrator.  Most the examples given  rely on the use of Photoshop at some point in the process.  Some examples  rely almost entirely on Photoshop.  I currently do not own Photoshop so  when I received this book I was rather dissappointed.  It really did not  help me learn much about Illustrator.  I also bought the Illustrator 8  Bible and thought that it was a much better book.	2000-09-14
US	52928084	R18DBWD3A00WY5	0764540343	286832366	Pagemaker 6.5 for Windows 95 Bible	Books	5	4	5	N	Y	Excellent book	Well written and thorough.  I learned a lot of things that I would not  have known had I just relied on the Adobe manual and books.	2000-09-14
US	52928084	R1NH4EPG5Q3UUL	0376017686	921082426	Creating Storage: Hidden Storage & Rescued Space in the Garage, Attic, or Basement	Books	4	12	13	N	Y	Lot of good ideas	This book has a lot of good ideas on ways to store things. The drawings  are pretty basic however and you'll need to figure out how to construct  many of the projects on your own.  If you have a lot of clutter and can't  seem to find place to keep everything, you'll benefit from this book.	2000-09-14
US	52928084	R3AT343174IPYY	0520219805	206586610	A Natural History of the Sonoran Desert (Arizona-Sonora Desert Museum)	Books	5	10	16	N	Y	A wonderful book	This is great book and a must-have for anyone interested in the American  deserts.  Thorough and well-written.  This is the second book that I've  bought that was published by the Arizon Sonora Desert Museum and I love  both of them.	2000-09-14
US	52928084	R1BRIBDZA3QZPQ	0553110233	968348309	Total Memory Workout: 8 Easy Steps to Maximum Memory Fitness	Books	4	39	43	N	Y	Overall very good, but not a lot of new information.	This book was very well organized and contained some good ideas.  However,  for me at least, the book did not contain much new information.  I already  know that memory and concentration depend on: getting enough rest, eating  well, and staying healthy, etc. I also know that we often forget things  because we are not paying attention.  I learned a few things by reading  this book but not many.  The line spacing on this book is rather generous  also so there's really less here than the number of pages listed would seem  to indicate.  It is still one of the better books on the subject and worth  the 4 stars I am giving it.	2000-09-14
US	52928084	R1H6S203NOCMPI	0964326124	858903365	Goodbye, Scorpion; Farewell, Black Widow Spider: How to Avoid the Stings and Bites of the Southwest's Dangerous Arachnids - And What to Do If You Don't	Books	4	8	9	N	Y	Interesting and full of good ideas	This book has some good suggestions on ways to keep these pests out of  your house.  Written in an informal, easy-to-read style.	2000-09-14
US	52928084	R1DK72DYR40Y39	0440236134	524836453	The Roswell UFO Crash: What They Don't Want You to Know	Books	5	9	19	N	Y	Interesting and well researched	This book thoroughly debunks the Roswell UFO legend.  I can't imagine how  anyone could read this book and continue to believe in the myths that  surround Roswell.  The book is well researched and organized. Unlike many  of the books about UFOs the author lists all of his sources of information.  The author does tend to overuse exclaimation points, and this can be  annoying, but overall it is well written and easy to read. My only  criticism is that the book's cover would lead one to believe that the book  supports the govenment cover-up theory. This was probably a marketing  decision because books about UFOs and government conspiracies tend to sell  rather well.  Factual books that try to dispel such things usually don't.   Whether you're a skeptic or believer, if you have an interest in UFOs or  Roswell, you should read this book.	2000-09-14
US	52928084	RPUZWKUGCCNG9	0252024249	52266775	The Truth Never Stands in Way of a Good Story	Books	5	8	9	N	Y	Interesting and well researched.	This is the first Brunvand book that I've read.  I thoroughly enjoyed  reading it.  I'm usually very skeptical and don't believe Urban Legend  stories that I hear but I must admit this book debunked a few tales I  assumed to be true.  This book does tend to have an acedemic tone to it at  times and I didn't mind this.  Some readers may not want this much detail  however. If you are at all interested in Urban Legend, folklore, or even  those ubiquitous internet rumors then you'll enjoy this book.	2000-09-14
US	52928084	RTSNLG04G4Z3O	0452280737	665714697	The Complete Self-Publishing Handbook: A Step-by-Step Guide to Producing and Marketing Your Own Book in Paper or	Books	5	16	17	N	Y	Well written and thorough	I've purchased several books on self publishing and they vary greatly in terms of quality.  This is one of the better ones.  The information is current and presented in a logical, interesting style.  It focuses mostly  on the pre-production and fullfillment aspects of self-publishing which is  the information that most beginners need to get started.  Marketing is  covered in less detail so most people would be better off by purchasing one  of the several books that have been written on book marketing, in addition  to this book.<br />I haven't found one self-publishing book that really covers  everything that you need to know.  If you're trying to self publish I'd  recommend that you purchase a couple of books on the subject.  I'd also  suggest that look for ones that have been published within the last several  years.	2000-04-04
US	52928084	R31UDVE3A2CN29	1581150288	763801301	The Complete Guide to Book Marketing	Books	5	9	12	N	Y	Very helpful, current, thorough	Well written and complete, this book has been very helpful to me as I work on my marketing plan for my first self published book.  The information is very current and the book contain a lot of great advice.	2000-03-29
US	52928084	R195NGM34J8RTI	0898796466	544887738	The Complete Guide to Self-Publishing: Everything You Need to Know to Write, Publish, Promote and Sell Your Own Book (3rd edition)	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Very thorough but getting a little dated	This is one of the better books on self-publshing because it is very thorough, but I can only give it 4 stars because it really needs to be updated.  A lot has changed in the industry since this was written and I  hope that the authors are working on an updated edition.	2000-03-29
US	52928084	R32G9JXLD5489X	0940685949	384783945	Complete Guide To Successful Publishing	Books	5	10	10	N	Y	curent and complete information	I'm currently working on my first self published book and have purchased several self publishing books.  This is one of the best.  Other books either have up-to-date information but aren't very thorough or are thorough  but were published years ago and have outdated information.  If you're  intested in self publishing this is one of the first books I'd get,	2000-03-29
US	52928084	R2X3UXAIQKKXKN	1566048036	626072548	Coreldraw 8 F/X: Inventive Techniques & Outrageous Effects	Books	5	3	4	N	Y	Great book, thorough and well-written	So many computer related books written in the last several year look like they've been thrown together.  They're full of typos or the content is just incorrrect or incomplete.  It's apparent that a lot of time and effort went  into this book.  The book is full of great examples, the insruction are  complete and it's interesting to read.  I was a relative novice with  CorelDraw and this book allowed me to create some great designs quickly.   It showed me tricks that I probably would have never figured out on my own.   <br />Highly recomended!	2000-03-06
US	52928084	R8LP1KGRLEH2Q	0375753850	157216052	Dreamland: Travels Inside the Secret World of Roswell and Area 51	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Informative, Factual, and Entertaining	Everything that you've ever wanted to know about Area 51.  Well researched, objective, and full of interested facts but written in a light, entertaining style that made the book difficult to put down.	2000-02-11
US	52928084	R4QIRQOBNVGSN	0878423737	597986013	Rocks from Space: Meteorites and Meteorite Hunters (Astronomy)	Books	5	1	2	N	Y	Excellent book for anyone interested in meteors.	This was the first book that I've read on this subject and I thoroughly enjoyed it.  The book is full of historical information and technical facts but is written in an &quot;easy to read&quot; style.	2000-02-11
US	52928084	R1A7UFHUSFRYYD	0830638253	302655171	The Welder's Bible	Books	3	2	2	N	Y	Good book for a beginner - if it can be trusted	I purchased this book to learn how to gas weld and it does have a lot of information on this topic as well as other aspects of welding.  It seems like an ideal book for a novice welder. Various aspects of welding are explained in detail and the illustrations are pretty good. I did find a few typos in the book but most were minor. Overall I would recommend this as a good book for novices to learn welding basics or improve their skills.	1999-12-01
