US	52925878	R27BCR04XY5AA3	1893224007	982904397	Presumed Guilty: An Investigation into the Jon Benet Ramsey Case, the Media, and the Culture of Pornography	Books	2	29	33	N	N	Very little of merit here	Stephen Singular's &quot;Presumed Guilty&quot; is a difficult book to assess.  I should state at the outset that I have no knowledge of the murder of JonBenet Ramsey other than what I have learned through the  various media.  I am therefore not in a position to assess the accuracy of  the information the author presents based on my personal knowledge.  I do,  however, have training in law, and I find some disconcertingly egregious  errors regarding Singular's misstatements of law.<br />The book begins with a  prologue that seems primarily designed to convince the reader of Singular's  unique (if one will pardon the pun) status as a reporter of crime and as a  moral authority.  People in Denver, he tells us, &quot;were trashing one of  the most basic principles of our legal system--the presumption of  innocence&quot; by speculating that the Ramsey parents murdered their  daughter.  Soon after, Singular attacks the media for analyzing President  Clinton's speeches, thereby violating his Fifth Amendment right against  self-incrimination.  The list of alleged constitutional violations  continues, but the problem with Singular's accusations is that they are  wrong and hypocritical.  First, the idea that the media are violating  Clinton's constitutional rights by analyzing his words is farcical.   Second, Singular laments media accusations while he makes his own.   Apparently, he excludes himself from the moral dicta he reserves for  others.<br />The book, therefore, is one that I view with intense skepticism.   Naturally, an author who is ignorant of basic law may still be accurate in  other respects.  However, the egregiousness of the errors and the author's  double standard detract from his trustworthiness.  Of the crime itself,  Singular tells us little.  The main contribution he makes is in his theory  that the killing is related to Internet pornography, though there is little  evidence in the book to support the theory.  Indeed, the theory almost  seems to be an afterthought to the book, added without regard to  cohesiveness.  It is ironic that a book that begins by upbraiding the media  for thinking that the parents murdered their daughter ends by suggesting  that at least one of the parents abetted the killer.<br />Though the essential  aspects of &quot;Presumed Guilty&quot; are misguided or insubstantial,  there is a fair amount of inside information that is interesting and saves  this book from the nadir of investigative journalism, albeit only barely.   The author depicts, as others have, the chasm separating Boulder's two  law-enforcement branches, the police and the district attorney's office.   In addition, Singular provides some firsthand insights about one particular  tabloid reporter.  Finally, there is Singular's commentary on the  &quot;culture of pornography&quot; (as the title suggests).  Sadly, though,  Singular's skills are not sufficient to make much of a case regarding this  culture and its intersection with the child beauty pageants that, arguably,  launched the case to national prominence.	1999-08-07
US	52925878	R37VCFYY1S0GXI	0201489791	351170135	Mayhem: Violence As Public Entertainment	Books	3	7	8	N	N	Important and rational but too restrained	Sissela Bok's &quot;Mayhem&quot; takes on the issue of violence in various media and the effects of that violence on the population.  The issue is one that seems to be dominated by those for whom reason is not a priority, and  Bok's considered and apparently well-researched book is a welcome voice of  sanity.  (This is not to say that she is the first to deal with the issue  honestly and reasonably; naturally, others have done so.  Bok, however,  does seem to enjoy more exposure than many of the others, whose work has  often been relegated to academic fora.)<br />Bok takes some time to get to  what is really the fundamental point of her book and the point from which  her theses spring--that violence in the media does have an effect on the  population.  It would be more accurate to state that she concludes that  media depictions of violence have several effects.  It is probably a sad  commentary on the state of public debate that Bok must take extra care to  state the modest nature of the conclusion.  Media depictions of violence  are not the only factors that lead to these negative consequences, she  points out with stress, nor are we all influenced in the same ways.  These  points, which should be obvious even to those who would challenge Bok's  theses and assumptions, seem to take force from Bok's arguments and  diminish the power of the book.  In other words, the need to deal with  disingenuous counterarguments harms the overall result.<br />Ultimately, it  may be that Bok is a little too careful, though she does suggest that  censorship on some level might not be such a bad thing.  Her arguments may  be too restrained out of an effort to avoid the excesses that seem to  dominate the popular debate.  While Bok certainly avoids any appearance (to  me, at least) of being a demagogue or hidebound ideologue, the result is  not anything near a definitive treatment of the topic but instead more of a  primer.  The effort at objectivity is certainly wonderful, and the text is  recommended for those who have not given the issue serious consideration.   For those who have ruminated at length on this issue, &quot;Mayhem&quot;  probably offers little new.	1999-08-01
US	52925878	R14HG1K2OIHIQ9	0786862874	335827639	Where Serpents Lie	Books	3	3	3	N	N	Distracting but not engrossing	T. Jefferson Parker's &quot;Where Serpents Lie&quot; is a thriller that treads on dangerous ground.  The story begins with Terry Naughton, head of Orange County's Crimes Against Youth unit, working undercover at the home  of two parents who prostitute their young daughter to pedophiles.  Later,  Naughton finds himself on the trail of a man known as Horridus, a predator  who has abducted two young girls only to release them unharmed and  unmolested.  Naughton's great fear is that Horridus's behavior will  escalate to sexual abuse or murder--or both.<br />Chasing a criminal such as  Horridus would seem to be difficult enough, but Naughton has enough baggage  to make the task almost impossible.  An alcoholic who feels responsible for  his son's death, Naughton suffers blackouts, has troubles with monogamy,  and has enemies within his department.<br />The &quot;dangerous ground&quot; I  mentioned at the start is naturally the subject matter.  It is one thing to  write of a serial killer (which is not to say that Parker does that here),  but it is quite another thing when the victims are children.  Mystery  authors often report that one thing readers will not tolerate is the  killing of animals.  Graphic violence against children, then, should be  worse.  It would be inappropriate to disclose what happens to the  Horridus's subsequent victims, but I will report that Parker manages to  keep the violence against children mostly off-page.<br />&quot;Where Serpents  Lie&quot; is a competently written thriller that offers little new.  The  Horridus, while appropriately creepy, seems to be a bit too much of a  cartoon.  At the same time, Naughton is far from sympathetic.  As a result,  the book reads like a well-crafted and well-researched thriller, albeit one  without significant emotional pull.  It distracts, but it does not engross.	1999-07-17
US	52925878	R1XCUS7MADW1ZW	0679736778	906174595	I Wake Up Screaming	Books	4	14	14	N	N	A noir mystery in Hollywood	Steve Fisher's &quot;I Wake Up Screaming&quot; is a noir murder mystery set against the backdrop of Hollywood of the 1940s (though my copy of the book places the novel in the '50s).  With Fisher's screenwriting  experience, the verisimilitude of the Los Angeles and Hollywood setting is  never in doubt.  Peg (the male narrator) falls for Vicky Lynn, a bombshell  secretary.  Before long, he has enlisted the help of some friends to  sponsor Vicky as they try to make her into a movie star.  Soon after that,  she is killed.<br />Police initially suspect Peg, but they soon clear  him--except for one cop, a determined man named Ed Cornell, who assures Peg  that he always gets his man and is never wrong.  While Peg tries to get  about the business of writing movies, Cornell is stalking him, trying to  wear down the writer psychologically.<br />&quot;I Wake Up Screaming&quot; is  a moderately gritty noir mystery written in a fast-paced, conversational  style.  The flavor is distinctly that of an era long past, and the novel  should appeal to those who like that sort of atmosphere.	1999-07-17
US	52925878	R3DA5GM80L1W9D	0787106879	586962846	Mistrial of the Century: A Private Diary of the Jury System on Trial	Books	3	8	10	N	N	A juror's view of sequestration	Kudos is due Tracy and Judith Kennedy for making the content of &quot;Mistrial of the Century&quot; more substantial than the title.  The O.J. Simpson case is the nominal subject matter of this book, but the  Kennedys do not simply toss another empty tome upon the already excessive  pile of books that express outrage that Simpson was acquitted or framed,  depending on the author's point of view.  Rather, the Kennedys discuss the  sequestration process and its horrific effects on him (leading him to a  suicide attempt) and, necessarily, on her.<br />The Kennedys' descriptions of  former juror Tracy's ordeal are frightening as they describe the nearly  complete absence of rights the jurors were forced to undergo.  Kennedy  describes random searches of all his belongings, monitoring of his phone  calls, and other indignities that even the accused did not have to suffer.  The book seems brave and honest, particularly in the description of Tracy  Kennedy's suicide attempt.<br />At the same time, the reader should be  cautious about drawing the conclusions the authors obviously intend.  First, the book mentions possible criminal action against Tracy Kennedy for  various offenses, and any book by an accused, honest though it may be, must  be viewed in light of the accusations (or, in this case, possible  accusations, though time has suggested that none will be forthcoming).  Second, and more important, the book is an attempt to bring to light a  perceived injustice in the jury system.  The O.J. Simpson case, however,  was an anomaly among anomalies.  Sequestration is itself used in only a  minority of cases, and almost never for as long as was the case in the  Simpson trial.  The problems described are almost certainly not typical.  That being said, the Kennedys' book makes it clear that, regardless of  one's view of the correctness of the jurors' verdict, they were mistreated,  sometimes by each other, but mainly by the forces that gave them their  positions as jurors..	1999-07-05
US	52925878	RCSMCR4IF4PP3	0345430514	692598359	Another City, Not My Own	Books	2	6	8	N	N	&quot;Fiction&quot; without a point	Dominick Dunne's &quot;Another City, Not My Own&quot; is an extraordinarily confusing novel.  The protagonist is Gus Bailey, who is essentially Dunne himself.  Dunne suggests that the renaming of the  protagonist and the label of &quot;novel&quot; applied to the book are to  protect against libel suits, though any legal protection these devices  afford is at best dubious.  The story, such as it is, is of Bailey/Dunne's  coverage of the criminal trial of O.J. Simpson that so dominated the media.   Well, that's part of the story.  The rest involves Bailey/Dunne's visits  with celebrities from Elizabeth Taylor to Nancy Reagan to Andrew  Cunanan.<br />With so many books about the trial, the question of this book's  worth is probably whether it adds anything new.  In some respects, Dunne  does contribute to our understanding of the case by sharing insights about  the main players, from the defense team to the prosecution to some of the  witnesses.  Of course, we are told that the book is fiction, and that fact  mitigates against the faith we can put in Dunne's tales.  Some of the  events are obviously fictitious, but some are patently real.  Where the  truth lies is something Dunne evidently would prefer to avoid  disclosing.<br />One of the more curious aspects of &quot;Another City, Not My  Own&quot; is that Bailey/Dunne repeatedly laments the people who would  rather tell him what they know than tell officials.  At the same time,  Dunne himself is being exceedingly less than forthright in using the  literary structure he does.  We are told to believe in Simpson's factual  guilt because of the hearsay Bailey/Dunne hears, but the result is merely  one of preaching to those who have made up their minds one way or the  other.  In the end, one must wonder to what end this book was written,  aside from the net effect on Mr. Dunne's bank statement.  If the book is  purely fiction, then one wonders why such a fictional account is necessary.   If the book is mostly non-fiction, then why disclaim it as Dunne does?   Finally, if the book is a mixture of fact and fiction (as it is), how are  we to know what is what?	1999-06-14
US	52925878	RDDQ7PK79L3E	0345378792	535138480	The Case of the Queenly Contestant (A Perry Mason Mystery)	Books	4	5	5	N	N	The return of a dubious past	Erle Stanley Gardner's Perry Mason is faced with a particularly difficult challenge in &quot;The Case of the Queenly Contestant.&quot;  Especially duplicitous people, including his client, surround him as he tries to get  to the bottom of a case involving a woman who may or may not have had the  non-marital child of a now-wealthy (and presumably dead) business owner.  The woman, Ellen Adair, was once a beauty contest winner who hoped to make  it in Hollywood.  That failed, though, and she ended up pregnant, she says,  and unmarried.  That's when she changed her identity and began a new  life.<br />Now, twenty years later, Ellen seeks Mason's help as she tries to  stay hidden.  She is being pursued by a variety of formidable forces  seeking to get to the truth of her past.  At the heart of the case is a  nurse who seems to be shopping her story to the highest bidder.  The nurse  soon turns up murdered, though, and Mason's client is the prime  suspect.<br />This Perry Mason novel is slightly more involved than most of  the others and about par for the course in terms of quality.  Par, of  course, is a high standard for Gardner, and &quot;The Case of the Queenly  Contestant&quot; is entertaining and satisfying as a mystery and  entertaining diversion.	1999-04-08
US	52925878	RKHRLFAH20Q1I	0505512033	579212149	Death in Five Boxes	Books	4	6	6	N	N	A lesson in how to hide the clues fairly	Carter Dickson (a.k.a. John Dickson Carr) is certainly the master of the locked-room mystery, a category which might as well be named after him.  In &quot;Death in Five Boxes,&quot; Carr presents not a locked-room mystery  but a nonetheless apparently impossible crime.  A gathering of five people  ends when four of them are found unconscious and nearly dead from atropine  poisoning.  The fifth faired far less well; he was dead, stabbed.  As the  room in which the five were found was not locked, the crime should be an  easy one.  But there's a slight catch; it seems impossible that anyone,  whether a member of the group or an outsider, could have put the poison  into the drinks.<br />Sir Henry Merrivale, Carr's best character, is  determined to solve the crime, though, and he naturally does so.  Along the  way, we learn that the five people who were at the table have many secrets,  all of which only serve to cloud the mystery.<br />&quot;Death in Five  Boxes&quot; is an excellent novel for those who would like to be able  finally to solve one of Carr's puzzles.  The solution is perhaps the most  obvious of any of his novels or short stories, though it should be pointed  out that &quot;obvious&quot; and Carr's name do not lend themselves to use  in the same paragraph.  The novel might be better for aspiring mystery  novelists.  With such a (relatively) obvious solution, the book becomes an  exercise in the mastery of hiding the obvious.  Though the novel is far  from Carr's best, either as a simple story or as an impossible mystery, the  way in which this undisputed master goes about hiding the truth while  playing entirely by the rules is something to behold.	1999-04-08
US	52925878	RHIR87H3UBPJR	0787111813	251883781	Mile High Club: First Class All the Way With the Rich and Famous	Books	1	1	2	N	N	Pointless	Diana Benson's &quot;Mile High Club&quot; contains accounts of her memories of her time as a flight attendant for MGM Grand, an airline catering to the rich and famous.  The majority of the book consists of  stories of the misdeeds of the flight attendants and their famous clients,  and the impression Benson conveys is one of a group of oversexed  adolescents.  References to flatulence abound as do revelations of  adulterous affairs, drug use, and drunken excess.  For those to whom this  sort of material appeals, there is little in the way of other material to  get in the way.  However, for those eager to read about who's gay, who's  rude to whom, and which basketball players are the most adept or  indiscriminate sexually, &quot;Mile High Club&quot; is just the book.  Even  those readers, though, will find the writing sparse and not especially  enlightening.  Finally, the author's admissions that she promised not to  reveal some of the very things she has printed diminish her credibility and  the reader's ability to like her seriously.	1999-04-08
US	52925878	R3R2HZB7I050B7	034537875X	395238737	The Case of the Screaming Woman	Books	3	4	4	N	N	Otherwise strong novel marred by the courtroom scene	Erle Stanley Gardner's Perry Mason is faced with a peculiar request in &quot;The Case of the Screaming Woman.&quot;  Joan Kirby wants Mason to cross-examine her husband, who she says told her a cock-and-bull story  about picking up a stranded woman in the middle of the night and dropping  her off at a hotel.  When Mason investigates, he finds that his new client  is likely to be implicated in the murder of a doctor running a singular  sort of clinic.<br />It should come as no surprise that the book ends with a  dramatic courtroom confrontation.  This time, though, the scene rings  false.  Mason confronts his D.A. nemesis, Hamilton Burger, but the D.A.'s  actions seem unusually inept and cartoonish.  Mason succeeds in making a  fool of the man far too easily, and the book ends on an unimpressive note.   This ending is especially unfortunate given the strong beginning.  In  setting up the preliminary hearing, Gardner does a wonderful job of  presenting the lies of witnesses and suspects alike, leaving Mason with the  difficult task of finding the truth in the pile of lies.  In addition, the  mystery here is one of Gardner's better ones.  The clues are there, and the  identity of the true culprit still comes as a surprise.  The review, then,  is mixed.  Amid so many good things is the one false note, but the  prominence of that note makes it a real clunker.	1999-04-03
US	52925878	RP2P8SN25HRKB	0312146841	119436210	Murder Benign	Books	4	0	0	N	N	An enjoyable read	In Richard Hunt's &quot;Murder Benign,&quot; an archaeologist's last day seems to be devoted to cultivating suspects for his impending murder.  First, he is in an accident when he hits a biker.  As it is, the biker  belongs to a group that is especially upset about the lack of diligence  motorists exhibit with regard bikers.  Then the archaeologist upbraids two  students on a dig when they find a clay tablet with cuneiform writing--a  tablet the archaeologist is certain must be a hoax.<br />Before long,  Detective Chief Inspector Sidney Walsh and his team are investigating the  archaeologist's murder and trying to whittle down the list of suspects.  A  great deal of their job involves setting up several stakeouts, one of which  leads to an incredibly funny scene.<br />&quot;Murder Benign&quot; is very  well written, and Hunt keeps the pace moving quickly, dangling enough  mysteries to keep the pages turning toward the resolutions (though not all  are revealed, unfortunately).  In the end, I found myself more interested  in the authenticity (or lack of the same) of the tablet than in the  killer's identity.  Since I have no particular expertise in archaeology, I  think that fact stands as some level of praise for the book.	1999-03-05
US	52925878	R25438ETHUS97Z	1568955049	623402147	Close to the Bone	Books	4	4	4	N	N	A wonderful read	In William G. Tapply's &quot;Close to the Bone,&quot; Boston attorney Brady Coyne is asked to represent a drunk driver in a trial that should be a slam dunk for the prosecution.  Coyne doesn't take the case, though,  since it's not the sort of case he can handle well.  Instead, he refers the  client to Paul Cizek, a former prosecutor who is now an amazing defense  attorney.  Cizek takes the case, and Brady goes on with his life.  Cizek's  new client is just another in a string of clients whom he loathes, from the  child molestor to the mob hit man.<br />Soon, Cizek's boat turns up empty, and  it's not clear whether Cizek has been murdered, committed suicide, or gone  over the edge in an accident during the storm.  Coyne is brought into the  investigation of Cizek's disappearance due to his status as lawyer for  Cizek and his wife.  At the same time, Coyne is trying to figure out just  what to do about his relationship with his lover, who will be moving soon  to write a book.<br />&quot;Close to the Bone&quot; is an interesting sort of  mystery.  In a sense, it's a paradox.  For a long time, it is not precisely  clear what the mystery is.  On the other hand, the twist ending is  predictable (though that may be because I've read too many mysteries).  At  any rate, the novel is very well written and very enjoyable.  Coyne is a  devout fisherman, and the book's pace seems to be a great deal like an  ideal fishing trip--sure, there's a goal in mind, but the point is to enjoy  the experience and to savor the reflection that fishing brings.  Tapply's  characters, Coyne and his lover, Alex, in particular, are exceedingly  realistic and the sort of people with whom one would enjoy spending time.   &quot;Close to the Bone&quot; is a highly recommended mystery, primarily  for the vivid characters and the writing.	1999-03-02
US	52925878	RK0HHV8DTQL88	0312958358	710076248	Tap, Tap	Books	4	1	3	N	N	A tremendous amount of fun	On the cover of my copy of David Martin's &quot;Tap, Tap&quot; is a sticker that promises the novel is &quot;guaranteed to scare or your money back.&quot;  This is a sucker's bet, and the reader wins nearly every time.   &quot;Tap, Tap&quot; is not a particularly scary book, but that's not to  say that it's not worth reading; quite to the contrary, it's a wonderful  novel.<br />The story involves Roscoe Bird, a Washington, D.C., businessman  who is married and putting his past behind him.  Enter Peter Tummelier,  Roscoe's childhood friend.  Peter now claims to be a vampire and seeks to  claim his share of the pair's childhood dream of sailing off into the  sunset together (literally).  Peter begins to kill Roscoe's enemies in a  way calculated to frame Roscoe so that the latter will have no choice but  to flee to avoid prosecution.  Roscoe's wife, who has a fascination for the  sort of very abnormal behavior Peter is exhibiting, finds herself drawn  into the seine, as well.  Meanwhile, police are indeed falling for Peter's  ruse and make it very clear that Roscoe is suspected of murder.<br />That  police would so readily fall for the ploy is problematic, but Martin's  writing easily overcomes the plot holes.  The writing switches tenses (from  past to present and back), voice (from first-person to third-person and  back), and locations in a way that could have been very jarring.  But  Martin is so skilled a writer and the pace is so fast that the end result  works--and works well.  As I said at the outset, I do not think &quot;Tap,  Tap&quot; is scary at all.  There are moments of terror, to be sure, but  the overall effect is more along the lines of a rollercoaster, a ride on  which the reader is carried along rapidly with so many sensations that they  almost tend to blur with the passing scenery.  Sure, there is some true  horror, but there are also moments of great humor and of pathos.  And it  all seems to blend together remarkably well.	1999-03-01
US	52925878	R1S5A1H13QCJ9C	0771034202	895489574	The Dead Pull Hitter	Books	4	4	4	N	N	A wonderful first effort	Alison Gordon's &quot;The Dead Pull Hitter&quot; begins wonderfully.  Reporter Kate Henry is on an airplane flight home with the Toronto Titans, who have a shot to win the American League East division for the first time  ever.  In this setting, we get to see the players at ease (and somewhat on  edge after a road trip) and a female reporter's interaction with them.   Gordon does a wonderful job conveying the female reporter's life in a game  played only by men (at the major-league level, at least).  Gordon also  clearly conveys an intimate knowledge of the game without being  overbearing.  &quot;The Dead Pull Hitter&quot; also delivers the thrill of  the penant chase, complete with scoreboard watching.<br />Soon, though, the  team's designated hitter turns up dead.  As if that's not enough, murder  also claims the life of another player.  Kate uses her contacts with the  players to delve into the mystery.  The mystery aspect of &quot;The Dead  Pull Hitter&quot; is rather standard, complete with the police officer as a  love interest, a theme rather common, especially in cozy mysteries.<br />But  &quot;The Dead Pull Hitter&quot; is more than a puzzle to solve.  It's a  wonderfully written novel by a woman with a clear feel for the game.   Gordon does a wonderful job of bringing to the genre a woman in a man's  game and in endowing the reporter with an attitude that is a joy to read.   As a first effort, &quot;The Dead Pull Hitter&quot; is clearly a winner.	1999-02-22
US	52925878	R1RVGBTCRXB7IH	0312956959	477681428	Nevermore	Books	2	5	6	N	N	Busy and not very flattering for Houdini	William Hjortsberg's &quot;Nevermore&quot; brings together Harry Houdini, Sir Arthur Conan Doyle, a serial killer emulating Edgar Allan Poe's stories, and a host of real characters from the 1920s.  Sherlock Holmes's  creator is in the United States delivering a series of lectures on  spiritism, and Houdini is playing his usual role as a skeptic.  The two  inevitably run into each other time and time again, and they form a  friendship, one that is tried to some degree by their different  philosophies.  While they are going about their businesses, a killer is  dispatching victims in ways that are taken from Poe tales.  And at the same  time, a woman calling herself Isis is performing supernatural feats that  Houdini cannot explain away.<br />If the story sounds busy, that's because it  is.  The various threads seem to coexist without mingling for quite some  time.  In fact, the serial killer all but disappears for a substantial  portion of the second half of the novel.  With the standard suspense aspect  thusly diminished, the novel becomes more of a combination of a period  piece and an exploration into the two men's obsession with supernatural  phenomena.  The historical aspect of the mystery often works well, though  Hjortsberg does seem to revel a bit much in the minutiae of the period,  from cigarette brands to characters.  The supernatural aspect does not  work, as Houdini is clearly the loser; there is never really any doubt but  that spirits exist and influence the world.  Also, it should be noted that  Houdini's character, while heroic, is also decidedly unflattering,  especially in his dealings with Isis.<br />&quot;Nevermore&quot; begins with a  great deal of promise but ultimately fails to fulfill that promise as the  threads never mesh entirely satisfactorily.  While Hjortsberg writes well  for the most part, he never truly unites the several threads, and a few of  them are left dangling.	1999-02-22
US	52925878	R2X676RKF7XPQB	0553100521	527387751	The Caretaker	Books	2	1	1	N	N	Not very thrilling at all	Thomas William Simpson's &quot;The Caretaker&quot; is about a salesman who receives an amazing job offer out of nowhere.  A huge salary, and amazing new home, and a product that should be a huge seller--it all sounds too  good to be true, and it (of course) turns out not to be true.<br />Lurking in  the background is a caretaker with an old score to settle, and the  salesman, an obnoxious jerk, will be the one who suffers most, but not  until he makes his wife's life miserable.<br />&quot;The Caretaker&quot; does  not deal with a life-or-death threat throughout the majority of the  salesman's torment, and the writing is not crisp enough to make the story  one worth caring about.  Nor is there any reason particularly to care about  the financial and professional destruction of the salesman.	1999-02-22
US	52925878	R23OI92PKJWP62	0345434013	111890392	It's the Stupidity, Stupid: Why (Some) People Hate Clinton and Why the Rest of Us Have to Watch (Library of Contemporary Thought)	Books	1	2	8	N	N	Precious little insight or humor	It is not clear whether Harry Shearer intended &quot;It's the Stupidity, Stupid&quot; to be an insightful political commentary, a stand-up routine, or both.  What is clear is that the end result achieves neither of these  ends.  The question Shearer posits and then seeks to answer is why so many  people hate President Bill Clinton so vehemently.  He posits a few theories  ranging from racism to age, but the analyses are insipid and devoid of  anything truly insightful or new.  Nor is there all that much to find  especially humorous unless it is in the ad personem attacks on various  right-wing figures.  Perhaps the book's saving grace is that it ends less  than 100 pages after it begins.  Certainly, this is one of the more banal  entries in the Library of Contemporary Thought.	1999-02-18
US	52925878	REHTOUYM8TAAD	038531809X	544523612	Why Not Me? The Inside Story of the Making and Unmaking of the Franken Presidency	Books	2	20	29	N	N	Disappointing	Al Franken's &quot;Why Not Me?&quot; is a satiric account of politics documenting his fictional but successful run for the U.S. presidency in 2000.  The story is presented through a pastiche of faux diary entries from  the campaign trail, chapters of a Bob Woodward novel documenting the first  100 days of the Franken presidency, several magazine and newspaper stories,  and transcripts, among other things.  As such, the novel reads somewhat  like a scrapbook--with similar ease and discordance.<br />There are certainly  laugh-out-loud moments in the book, but it is in general flat and lacking  the political insight that Franken's &quot;Rush Limbaugh Is a Big Fat Idiot  and Other Observations&quot; had.  The story is about Franken running for  the Democratic nomination on a single issue, ATM fees charged by banks.   When that platform does not seem to capture the nation's interest, he turns  to insurance companies for funding and agrees in return to add deregulation  of the banking industry (thus allowing insurers to enter the market) to his  platform.  Along the way, he and his staff lie, commit battery, manufacture  and take drugs, and run a phone-sex line.<br />Ultimately, the novel portrays  Franken as an oversexed moron, an image that does not work entirely well.   Franken, as author, has difficulty presenting an insightful political  satire about Franken, the bumbling candidate.  The majority of the funniest  jokes, therefore, are more often salacious than politically insightful.  In  the end, there is simply too little to justify the 289 pages, and the real  laughs are therefore too few by comparison.	1999-02-17
US	52925878	R18VA5NEMQVQ7W	0449149579	319295680	Kiss of the Vampire	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Well written and interesting	Nancy Baker's &quot;Kiss of the Vampire&quot; begins with the waking of a long-dormant vampire.  He has been asleep for about a century and finds out that the twentieth century holds a particularly nasty development for  vampires--ultrasound.  It is, therefore, rather easily that he is captured  when he awakens.  Shortly thereafter, Ardeth Alexander, a young graduate  student, is abducted.  She is taken captive and used as the food supply for  the vampire.<br />In their dismal prison, the two, predator and prey, form an  uneasy alliance against their captors.  Though he takes from her without  giving anything back, she has sympathy for him; he is, after all, as much a  prisoner as she is, and the degradations he suffers are as bad as hers.   With several women dead, Ardeth knows the fate planned for her, and she  must decide whether to allow him to transform her into a vampire so that  she can survive somehow.<br />&quot;Kiss of the Vampire&quot; (formerly  &quot;The Night Inside&quot;) is somewhat hard to classify.  Certainly the  vampires would seem to make the book fall within the horror genre, but the  vampirism does not dominate the novel, much of which is a thriller that  just happens to involve vampires.  Unlike many thrillers, though,  &quot;Kiss of the Vampire&quot; features an especially well-rounded  protagonist.  Ardeth Alexander is a complex character, a woman with flaws  that make her seem very real.  The vampire, a fifteenth-century Russian  aristocrat, is also well drawn.  These three-dimensional characters are  what holds the book together through some of the slower spots (of which  there are a few but not too many).	1999-02-01
US	52925878	R2R2O7LMMZTYN5	0312964544	803205077	A Stranger for Christmas	Books	1	0	12	N	Y	Absolute drivel	Carol Lynn Pearson's &quot;A Stranger for Christmas&quot; reads like the outline of a heartwarming Christmas story, but the actual product is far too lean and predictable to be worth reading.  The story centers around two  &quot;little old ladies&quot; in a nursing home.  They wonder whether  anyone would be kind enough to take in someone in their position in order  to stave off loneliness for three days.  One of the women has faith that  her children would in fact do such a thing, and she begins to call them in  order to ask them.  That's pretty much the entire story except for the  ending.<br />The main problem with &quot;A Stranger for Christmas&quot; is  that it's so short that there's no character development and no chance for  the hasty conclusion to work.  The writing is awkward, and the story simply  fails.  Maybe children would enjoy the book, but adults should look  elsewhere.	1998-12-30
US	52925878	RPX7PVLXYP6LJ	0451195914	915583120	Abra Cadaver (Jake Merlin Mysteries)	Books	2	1	2	N	N	A mess	&quot;Abra Cadaver,&quot; James Tucker's first novel, is full of potential but never lives up to its possibilities.  The premise is fascinating.  Two corpses turn up under mysterious circumstances a year apart.  The first is  fished out of the river and turns out to have been embalmed already.  But  there doesn't seem to be an embalmed body missing from any of the  mortuaries or medical schools.  A year later, a doctor discovers that one  of the bodies in the gross anatomy lab is actually that of his roommate,  who has been missing for a year.<br />The dual protagonists of the novel are  Dr. Jack Merlin, a young surgeon and amateur magician, and  Tory Welch, a  first-year lawyer working for the D.A.'s office.  While Merlin seems to be  the intended focus of the story, he is a bit too much of a jerk to be a  sympathetic protagonist.  In an early scene, presumably intended to endear  Merlin to the reader, he performs a magic show for children in the  hospital.  Inexplicably, he jokes about having disrobed a nurse.  It seems  arguable that such conduct would be sexual harassment.  (Not to worry,  though--the nurse only showed &quot;mock&quot; anger.)  Later, he  jeopardizes an operation by giving the head surgeon something that will  force him to have to urinate and leave the operation.  These are the antics  of an adolescent boy, not a sympathetic man.<br />Characterization seems to be  the major shortcoming of &quot;Abra Cadaver.&quot;  Aside from Tory and one  other minor character, nearly every character who appears more than twice  is a complete jerk, and the novel suffers greatly from the lack of  well-rounded characters.  Even Tory, easily the most sympathetic of the  lot, seems unnecessarily weak and little more than a prop to be leaned  against Merlin.  As for the plot, it never really seems all that  convincing.  The ending is thoroughly absurd in that it involves a  prosecutor who's also a major witness in the same case.<br />&quot;Abra  Cadaver&quot; is very hard to read not only because of the failures I've  mentioned but because of the fact that it seems Tucker could have been  capable of more.  If he can avoid the unbelievable hyperbole of the first  effort, the second one might be worth reading.  This one's strictly  prosaic, though.	1998-12-30
US	52925878	R3BED9NYCFCBR0	0345340418	95167499	Death in a Tenured Position (Kate Fansler Novels)	Books	3	18	19	N	Y	Wonderful writing but a poor mystery	In &quot;Death in a Tenured Position,&quot; Amanda Cross (Carolyn G. Heilbrun) presents a literate mystery.  Someone has left Harvard a million dollars to fund a chair in the English department for a female professor.   At 1978 Harvard, the idea of women professors is still something to be  viewed with, if not utter revulsion, at least significant apprehension.  It  is a time when &quot;women's studies&quot; is considered a fadish and  unnecessary program.  Harvard hires Janet Mandelbaum, who also disdains  such things as &quot;women's studies&quot; and who aspires only to succeed  based on merit.  At the misogynistic Harvard, though, to succeed based on  merit, one first must be a man.  Janet thus finds herself ostracized.   Soon, she finds herself drugged and left in the women's room in a  compromising position.<br />Kate Fansler, a professor from New York, is asked  to help out Janet, and Kate agrees, securing a position as a Fellow and  beginning to consider the attempt to discredit Janet.  Before long, though,  Janet is found dead, and the police arrest someone Kate believes is  innocent.  Kate then turns to an unethical lawyer to help her friend while  she investigates the death.<br />As a real-world mystery, &quot;Death in a  Tenured Position&quot; is rather a disaster.  The lawyer hired to defend  the police's main suspect seems not to care at all about his client and  goes to great lengths to please Kate while harming the client.  What is  more important, though, is that one of the characters had to have known the  solution to the mystery long before the denouement and should have  explained it.  In short, the mystery doesn't make sense, and it doesn't  work in any real sense.  The mystery, however, does involve some wonderful  use of English poetry and prose, complete with allusions that make it all  seem obvious, albeit only after the fact.<br />But there is more to the novel  than the mystery, and it is there that Cross succeeds admirably.  In a  field that is, nearly twenty years later, marked by increasing percentages  of bad writing, &quot;Death in a Tenured Position&quot; is a remarkably  well-written novel.  Cross writes almost melodically, and her characters  take on personalities merely by their word choice.  To read a character  correcting himself for saying &quot;rather extreme,&quot; for example, is a  pleasure.  More to the point, though, the indictment of Harvard, which  seems to be one of those all-too-frequent oxymora, the institute of higher  learning mired in a pre-Elizabethan view of women, is unmitigated,  unqualified, and unrepentant.	1998-12-12
US	52925878	R11YY3QZZK3PN0	0440213738	107371830	The Brains of Rats	Books	5	8	8	N	Y	Astonishing	The short stories in Michael Blumlein's &quot;The Brains of Rats&quot; are very difficult to classify by genre.  In another sense, they're quite easy to identify; they're all very well written and fascinating.  Though the  book's spine identifies the collection as &quot;horror,&quot; that label  applies only to some of the stories.  The title story, for example, deals  with the questions of gender and gender identity.  My personal favorite  story is the second, a little opus entitled &quot;Tissue Ablation and  Variant Regeneration: A Case Report.&quot;<br />Written in a clinical manner,  this story is heavy in medical terminology and describes an operation on a  conscious albeit paralyzed man.  Blumlein's style here is both complex and  powerful.  Though the writing seems to attempt to give maximum attention to  the clinical nature of the operation, there is a subtext of the feelings of  the man on the table; it is almost impossible not to empathize with the  patient, to feel his agony to at least some degree.<br />The stories in  &quot;The Brains of Rats&quot; are extraordinarily diverse, from relatively  benign fantasy at times to the significantly darker aspects of &quot;Tissue  Ablation.&quot;  Almost without exception, they are fascinating and  engrossing.  This book is highly recommended for those who enjoy  well-written, short fiction of a speculative nature.	1998-12-04
US	52925878	ROO4FBKIMAROM	0345356802	89942884	The Case of the Stuttering Bishop (Perry Mason Mysteries (Fawcett Books))	Books	2	4	7	N	N	Not the best of Perry Mason	The title character of Erle Stanley Gardner's &quot;The Case of the Stuttering Bishop&quot; enters Perry Mason's office one day and presents an enigmatic story about the granddaughter of a wealthy man.  The girl's  mother gave up the child for adoption long before, but now the  granddaughter is coming forward to claim a share of her grandfather's  estate.  At the same time, an imposter has come forward--or so says the  stuttering bishop.  But is he for real, or is he merely an imposter,  too?<br />Before Mason can determine the answer to that question, the bishop  is attacked in his hotel room and then disappears, apparently into thin  air, while boarding a ship.  At the same time, Mason is trying to track  down the various parties and to determine who's who.  When the wealthy  grandfather is murdered, though, it appears that Mason has his first guilty  client.<br />Unlike many Perry Mason novels, &quot;The Case of the Stuttering  Bishop&quot; does not end up in a dramatic court confrontation, and it  therefore deviates somewhat from form.  The case here is also significantly  more convoluted than that in many of the Perry Mason novels.  Because of  this change of form, I found the novel less satisfying than the other Perry  Mason novels I've read.  The name Perry Mason, after all, connotes  brilliant lawyering, and the emphasis on the detective work here left me  disappointed.	1998-11-17
US	52925878	R1LWZT00CUMV1A	0312959958	893942572	Mental Case	Books	3	2	2	N	Y	A good story, clear-cut characters, little depth	In James Neal Harvey's &quot;Mental Case,&quot; detective Ben Tolliver is presented with the case of a murder-suicide.  There is no doubt about what happened.  A woman, the daughter of a prominent citizen and Tolliver's  friend, walked into a jewelry store, calmly began shooting everyone, and  then turned the gun on herself.  But there is one question that plagues  Tolliver:  Why?  The detectives in charge of the case are content with the  resolution; with the death of the perpetrator, the case is tied up neatly.   Soon, however, another apparently random murder occurs, and Tolliver  suspects that the two might somehow be linked.  The two are linked, of  course, and the link is a nefarious psychiatrist who has been experimenting  with mind control through drugs.<br />Though many critics have called the book  a thinly-veiled attack on anti-depressant drugs such as Prozac, I did not  read it that way until the last paragraph.  For the most part, the story  involves the contest between the detective and the doctor.  These two are  presented as simple characters.  One is bent on solving the case, while the  other is the personification of evil.  There is, in other words, little of  depth here--just a popcorn story.  But the story is well told, and the  writing is sufficiently crisp to keep the pace moving along quickly.  Great  literature this is not, but the title probably serves as a tip-off on that  point.  For readers in search of a good story, though, &quot;Mental  Case&quot; fits the bill.	1998-11-17
US	52925878	R1CIG0NQX9ZR5Y	0425145638	465097683	Fatal Cure	Books	2	4	7	N	N	A polemic against HMO's--oh, and there's a story, too	Robin Cook's &quot;Fatal Cure&quot; is more of the same from this best-selling author.  As is standard, Cook takes a development in health care that is disturbing and expands it into fantastic proportions.  In this  case, the disturbing element is the increased emphasis on cost at the  expense of patients' health--all courtesy of HMO's.<br />&quot;Fatal  Cure&quot; tells the story of two young doctors (Angela and David Wilson)  who move to an idyllic Vermont town when they are able to land jobs, one at  a hospital and another working for the only HMO in the area.  David's  patients begin dying at an alarming rate, and the deaths defy diagnosis.  At the same time, they turn up the body of a doctor in their basement.  The  dead man had disappeared relatively recently, and the Wilsons (Angela,  especially, as she becomes obsessed with the matter) seek to unravel the  mystery surrounding his death.  Their efforts, however, do not please the  town, which responds with threats, vandalism, and hostility.  And as if  these two problems are not enough, there's the rapist who has been claiming  victims in the hospital's parking lots.<br />The story is thoroughly  transparent, and while the precise identity of the culprit might not be  obvious, the reasons behind and causes of the patients' mysterious deaths  should not be any surprise (and shouldn't have been a surprise to the  Wilsons).  The lack of surprise is due largely to the transparency of  Cook's political message.  The characters' motivations do not seem to be  entirely consistent with reality, especially as the two young doctors  repeatedly endanger their daughter's life by taking her into high-risk  situations.  Angela, for example, takes the girl with her when she goes in  search of her missing husband rather than leaving the child with her  grandparents.  That factor, more than the political intrusion, is  especially disturbing.  Cook does know how to string together dramatic  events, but the characters are too dull to figure out what is obvious, and  the writing is rather poor.  For Cook's fans, though, none of these  problems will come as a surprise or present any difficulties.  For people  in search of realism or intelligent and multi-dimensional characters, look  elsewhere.	1998-11-17
US	52925878	R2AIIYMCF13OHK	0061093920	941574380	Render Up the Body: A Novel of Suspense	Books	4	2	3	N	N	A wonderful book (and it gets the law right!)	Marianne Wesson's &quot;Render up the Body&quot; begins with the retirement of a prosecutor alternately known as Cinda and Minnie Mouse as she prepares to begin working at a rape counseling center.  Soon after she  starts her new job, though, Cinda receives a call from a Colorado Supreme  Court justice asking her to handle the appeal of a convicted rapist and  murderer who has been sentenced to death.<br />Unable to refuse, she takes the  case, though doing so causes problems with her coworkers, who are  understandably uncomfortable with the idea of her representing a convicted  rapist.  During the appeals process, Cinda begins to uncover some  disturbing facts regarding the case.  More than that, though, her personal  relationships seem to be affected.  Her best friend from the prosecutors'  office suddenly turns a cold shoulder, and the man with whom Cinda begins  to establish a relationship (and who previously represented the condemned  man) sometimes seems too aloof.<br />The story of &quot;Render up the  Body&quot; is not all that original (though the ending is), but it is very  difficult to find original plots in the field of legal thrillers.  That  being said, &quot;Render up the Body&quot; has a great deal going for it  that does set it apart from the field.  The writing is crisp and  engrossing.  The characters seem very real--not the cartoonish good and  evil archetypes of so many other genre entries.  And Wesson takes her time  allowing the plot to unfold, thus letting the reader savor the story and  the characters' lives.<br />Another facet of the book that is welcome is the  law.  Wesson gets it right for the most part.  While she does take some  liberties conflating jurisdictions, it is clear that she understands law  (as well she should given her past as a prosecutor and a law professor).   Her lawyers do not run around committing flagrant ethical violations; they  do not tamper with juries in the name of their ideals, and they don't run  around hiding evidence.  Too many books in the genre have no regard for the  law and thus become supremely unrealistic.  &quot;Render up the Body,&quot;  on the other hand, takes the law seriously, and so do the characters.  This  facet is a welcome and refreshing change from too many genre entries.<br />For  readers looking for a simple parable of good and evil with characters who  personify those opposites, look elsewhere.  But for those looking for a  book in which the characters are real people working in a world they do not  control completely and in which complex questions are presented without  simplistic answers, &quot;Render up the Body&quot; is highly recommended.	1998-11-17
US	52925878	R32M5T1GO2X2YC	0446602612	243715630	The Poet	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Strangely unaffecting	Michael Connelly has made a name for himself as one of the premier mystery writers today.  &quot;The Poet,&quot; a non-series effort, is about a serial killer who has been murdering police detectives and making the  deaths look like suicides.  The title of the novel is the killer's nom,  taken from the fact that the deaths were accompanied by quotations from the  works of Edgar Allen Poe.  The notes, originally assumed to be suicide  notes, were all in the victims' handwriting.<br />The protagonist is a  reporter whose brother was one of the victims.  The reporter injects  himself into the investigation and accompanies FBI agents as they seek out  the killer through a maze of pedophilia and internal leaks.  When it  becomes clear that one of the investigative team has leaked the story to  the press, the reporter begins to suspect various members and wonders whom  to trust.<br />What begins as an impressive setup does not last for &quot;The  Poet.&quot;  Connelly does do a wonderful job of keeping the story tight  and of keeping his characters from making absurd choices (a problem from  which far too many mystery novels suffer).  But the writing itself is not  all that good, and the story never fully engaged me.  In retrospect, I can  see the efforts to which Connelly went to tie together complex points, but  while I was reading it, I never fully embraced either the characters or the  story.	1998-10-28
US	52925878	R2JH8I00Z80PWC	0451184750	842603544	Sacrifice	Books	3	1	1	N	N	A good story but with thin characters	In Mitchell Smith's &quot;Sacrifice,&quot; a bank robbery nets the surviving thieves nearly a million dollars each.  For one of them (Tyler Pierce), though, the plans he had for the money soon become insignificant.   His daughter, with whom he has not had contact in years, becomes the victim  of a serial killer in Florida.  Pierce then decides to take his funds to  use them to hunt down the killer.  With the contacts that his criminal  background provides, Pierce is able to find help in a few sources, foremost  among whom is a prostitute with a valuable knowledge of the area.<br />The  conflict of a hardened criminal against a serial killer has the potential  to lapse into a cartoon, but Smith, to his credit, avoids that by a large  margin.  On the other hand, the portrayal of the killer does seem to lapse  into a sort of fantasy of what such a killer's mind might be like.  Whether  the killer is realistic or not, the killer's inner monologue does not seem  real, and that fact detracts from the novel  substantially.<br />&quot;Sacrifice&quot; is not so much a thriller as it is a  detective novel involving a most unlikely pair of detectives, and it is  good enough to keep the reader's interest.  Further, it rises above many,  perhaps even most, of the genre entries.  But the book is not much more  than a ridealong, a chance for the reader to follow a singular  investigation.  The characters, though they interact, seem not to affect  each other to the point that they change substantially.  The ending does  reveal a significant change in one of the characters, but it is almost  without precedent.  That is, there is nearly no foreshadowing to suggest  the dramatic change.<br />For people in search of an intelligent thriller,  with both the advantages and liabilities of that pair of words,  &quot;Sacrifice&quot; is recommended.  However, readers in search of a  character study should look elsewhere.	1998-10-28
US	52925878	R8RS4KS2WSK5S	0805060286	871150203	The Luneburg Variation	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Flawed but still compelling	Paolo Maurensig's &quot;The Luneburg Variation&quot; begins with the death of a chess master.  Found inside a hedge maze with a patchwork chess board made from old cloth and buttons scratched to be makeshift pieces, the  master has been shot.  The novella then backtracks to fill in the events  that led up to the death.  And the story is a complex one, including the  metaphysics of chess, the Holocaust, and more.  The title itself refers to  a chess strategy.<br />Maurensig devotes a great deal of attention to the  nature of chess, whether a mental war or an oasis of sanity, a compulsion  that takes over one's life or a reason for living.  Maurensig's evident  affection for the game makes these passages engrossing without a lapse into  discussions that require any particular chess expertise to understand.   Less effective, albeit still powerful, are the scenes in the concentration  camp.<br />While &quot;The Luneburg Variation&quot; is a compelling read, it  suffers somewhat from the structure.  Maurensig presents the story in bits  and pieces, and the result is that there is not the fluidity one might  like.  It is not that the book switches between characters so much as it is  that the story switches time frames frequently.  The intent seems to have  been to disclose bits and pieces when they most add to the suspense, but  the effect is to cause abrupt shifts that reminded me that I was in fact  reading; in short, they took me out of the story, even if only briefly.   Finally, kudos is due Jon Rothschild, who translated the story from the  original Italian.  I cannot comment on the accuracy of the translation  since I haven't seen the original text (and wouldn't be able to read it if  I did), but the English in which &quot;The Luneburg Variation&quot; is  presented is exquisite and bears no resemblance to a secondary work.	1998-10-28
US	52925878	RDX00GM79N6D2	0061009059	830758196	One for the Money (Stephanie Plum, No. 1) (Stephanie Plum Novels)	Books	2	6	11	N	N	Didn't come close to expectations	Janet Evanovich's first novel, &quot;One for the Money,&quot; came highly recommended, and that might have been the problem.  I had heard nothing but praise and the repeated assertions of how funny the novel was.  Yet when I  read it, I found it thoroughly mundane.  The story involves Stephanie Plum,  an out-of-work New Jersey woman who watches as all of her possessions are  claimed by her creditors.  Desperate, she takes a job tracking down FTA's,  people who failed to appear for court dates.  The lure is a $10,000 fee for  one particular man, a police officer charged with shooting an unarmed  man.<br />She finds the officer immediately, though she does not effect a  capture.  She also finds a top-notch boxer with a prediliction for sexual  sadism and rape.  Between these two men, her life quickly goes from calm  but poor to frantic but poor.<br />Evanovich does exhibit considerable flair  for characterization, albeit not without resort to stereotypes and  archetypes.  But where the novel really disappointed me was in the ending,  which not only hints of deus ex machina but screams it.  In fairness, I  should restate that this may well have been a case of a common phenomenon,  previews that make it impossible for the novel to live up to the advance  word.  Even so, the ending seemed far too contrived, and I was not all that  enchanted with the ride to that point.	1998-10-28
US	52925878	R2YBOPZTTATWHP	0385332947	543065560	May God Have Mercy: A True Story of Crime and Punishment	Books	5	20	29	N	N	Amazingly powerful	It is hard for me to imagine anyone reading John C. Tucker's &quot;May God  Have Mercy&quot; without being profoundly affected by the topic, which is  the trial and execution of Roger Coleman for the brutal rape and murder of  Wanda McCoy.  While a book dealing mostly with the appeals process could be  dull and confusing, Tucker does an astonishing job of presenting complex  legal concepts and rules in clear, simple language.  In so doing, Tucker  allows the personal stories of Coleman and those in his life to take center  stage, and those stories are powerful and moving.<br />One of the more common  defenses of the death penalty is that the entire system is set up to cater  to the defendants and that it's almost impossible for an innocent person to  slip through the cracks.  Sure, the cacophony of &quot;I'm innocent&quot;  on death row might be overwhelming, but there's an obvious lack of  credibility there.  But the case of Roger Coleman stands as an exception.   It's not that Tucker proves beyond a reasonable doubt that Coleman was  innocent (nor should he have to).  But there is substantial evidence to  suggest that Coleman was innocent, from the prosecution's almost-impossible  theory to the identification of a thoroughly plausible suspect.<br />Tucker  takes the reader through the entire case, from the initial investigation to  the final, tragic resolution.  In the process, we meet attorney Kitty  Behan, who handled most of Coleman's appeals.  Behan worked tremendous  hours at a thankless job that she had to know was an uphill battle.  Her  biggest task was to get a court actually to listen to the evidence  suggesting her client's innocence.  Before she assumed the case, one of her  predecessors had filed a paper a single day late (and even that was  debatable).  The rest of the case seemed to be a battle to convince  reluctant courts that an innocent man's life was more important than a  postmark.  Though Tucker exhibits restraint in describing the case, thepicture of Behan that emerges is one of a true hero, an attorney whose work  should be appreciated even by those in favor of speedier executions.  At  the expense of her own health, she did everything she could for her client,  and she did so not only competently (an understatement) but ethically.<br />In  the end, though, the story is Coleman's, and it is a painful story to  read--but an eminently important one.  Maybe Coleman was guilty, and maybe  he was innocent.  (The facts seem all but conclusive that he was innocent.)   But if the ultimate crime deserves the ultimate punishment, surely the  evidence raised that indicated his innocence should have been heard.  Even  the most ardent proponent of capital punishment should be uncomfortable  reading about the case of Roger Coleman.<br />Finally, while the story is  harrowing, special kudos is due the author.  The labyrinth of state and  federal appeals is confusing, but Tucker takes the reader through that maze  easily, almost making the appeals process seem clear.  Tucker's style is  easy to read, and he allows the personal stories to come through the legal  wrangling.  In short, &quot;May God Have Mercy&quot; is important,  well-written, and emotionally powerful.	1998-10-24
US	52925878	R6D0ERQ29PVGQ	0446365130	66342535	Criminal Conversation	Books	2	1	2	N	N	Too much coincidence and sordid detail	The title of Evan Hunter's &quot;Criminal Conversation&quot; comes from an  outdated tort.  Under the common law, &quot;criminal conversation&quot;  essentially meant adultery, giving the cuckolded husband the right to sue  his wife's lover.  The term has a second meaning in the context of the  story as Sarah Welles, the wife of an assistant district attorney, begins  an affair with her husband's quarry, mobster Andrew Faviola.  That, in a  nutshell, is the story.<br />&quot;Criminal Conversation&quot; relies on  coincidence to a degree reminiscent of Hardy's &quot;Return of the  Native,&quot; and these compounding coincidences at times make the story  too implausible.  However, Hunter (a.k.a. Ed McBain) delves so deeply into  the relationship that the coincidences pass from memory under the intensity  of the relationship.  And it is an intense relationship that Sarah and  Andrew have, perhaps more intense than is necessary.  Hunter's attention to  the salacious details of the parties seems unnecessarily rapt, and the more  sensitive reader might well be put off by the graphic sexual descriptions,  particularly in a pointless scene involving young  children.<br />&quot;Criminal Conversation&quot; is an uncomfortable novel in  many ways beyond the graphic sexual content.  The denouement is too long in  developing and leaves at least one major plot thread unresolved.  Still,  Hunter's novels under his pseudonym are ample evidence that he can write  well, and it would be unfair to dismiss this novel out of hand.  There is a  realism that infuses the novel, from the realistic characters (including  the far-from-glorified mobsters) to the pain and complications of the  affair.  But the novel clearly left me with the opinion that it would have  been far better 100 pages shorter.	1998-10-21
US	52925878	R1GVTFJAW1LMI5	038079845X	198109206	Victims of Justice (True Crime)	Books	4	5	6	N	N	Winning is everything; innocence a technicality	Thomas Frisbie and Randy Garrett's &quot;Victims of Justice&quot; is the  story of a now-famous Illinois murder case in which three innocent men were  put on trial for their lives.  While innocent people on trial is hardly a  new concept, this case is particularly bothersome in that there were  several convictions despite rather flimsy evidence.  The authors set up  this harrowing tale as an example of what they call &quot;The Prosecution  Complex,&quot; a phenomenon that encourages law-enforcement officials (from  police to prosecutors to judges) to press to win cases with notoriety at  nearly any cost while letting lesser cases go at insufficient plea bargains  or worse.<br />The crime at issue was the abduction, rape, and murder of  ten-year-old Jeanine Nicarico.  Given such an heinous crime, it is more  than understandable that there should be a desire for swift and decisive  &quot;justice.&quot;  However, what seems to have been lost on the people  charged with meting out that justice is that it helps to have the right  person.  In this case, the right person was readily available and indeed  confessed.  But the state had already fixed its gaze on three innocents,  and the fixed gaze, according to the Prosecution Complex, is not easily  averted.<br />&quot;Victims of Justice&quot; tracks the prosecutions and  appeals from the beginning to the end and along the way shows an  astonishing amount of prosecutorial misconduct, judicial duplicity, juror  error, and criminal police behavior.  Every time the state needs to shore  up a facet of its case, another jailhouse informant miraculously turns up  with precisely the tonic in the form of one of the defendant's  &quot;confessions.&quot;  Officers change their stories, and so does the  prosecution.  While the state hides evidence that it is legally obligated  to turn over, judges look the other way and one justice of the Illinois  Supreme Court even blatantly mistated that the state had produced physical  evidence.<br />Were this case not so well known and were it not for the  indictments of seven of the prosecution's lawyers and police, &quot;Victims  of Justice&quot; would seem to be outlandish fiction, the sort of thing  that would make Turow (who plays a prominent role in the book) or Grisham  blanch.  What author of fiction, for example, would expect her readers to  believe that a woman who claimed to be able to tell the race of a person by  the footprint a new pair of shoes produced after 100 yards on carpet would  be taken seriously?  And yet such an &quot;expert&quot; was not only  allowed to testify but was one of the state's star  witnesses.<br />&quot;Victims of Justice&quot; does an admirable job of  presenting the story in a linear, comprehensible (if not entirely  disinterested) manner, and the result is simply horrifying.  When a child  is murdered, it is an obvious and egregious tragedy.  But to allow the real  killer to go free to kill again so that three innocent men can be put to  death is no solution--or at least shouldn't be.  While &quot;Victims of  Justice&quot; should make any reader angry at the abuses that went on, at  least the case ended without executions.  The same cannot be said for the  defendant in John C. Tucker's &quot;May God Have Mercy,&quot; which is  another recommended book about what happens when an innocent person excites  the prosecution's interest.	1998-10-17
US	52925878	R3SO0GUEEI11K	0140110852	366286064	The Belles Lettres Papers	Books	4	9	9	N	N	Office politics and savage satire	Charles Simmons's &quot;The Belles Lettres Papers&quot; is a fiercely  funny expose of Belles Lettres, a fictional literary journal.  At least  that's the cover story.  Given Simmons's background as an editor of The New  York Times Book Review, the novel no doubt skewers many real people in the  literary world.  But &quot;The Belles Lettres Papers&quot; should amuse  anyone who has suffered the curse of incompetent bosses.<br />The book takes  us through the history of the fictional journal and focuses on a  particularly turbulent period.  Though there is a story that unites the  chapters, the book is really a series of vignettes.  And they are funny.   For example, there's the revelation that Shakespeare was gay, which we  learn from nine newly discovered sonnets.  Then there's the editor who  tells the staff to save their disdain for the publishers, who  wholeheartedly concur with the editor (if only because he said what he did  in French, which the publishers do not understand).  And I won't even  mention what the famous writer was doing in the closet.<br />For anyone with a  love of language and writing or an antipathy for office politics, &quot;The  Belles Lettres Papers&quot; is highly recommended.	1998-10-06
US	52925878	R233JEH5Q4TSUN	0515119644	569723924	The Judge (A Paul Madriani Novel)	Books	2	3	4	N	N	Martini must hate the law	In Steve Martini's &quot;The Judge,&quot; the title character is accused  of the murder.  The victim is a woman who was preparing to testify against  the judge in a solicitation (of prostitution) case and who worked with the  police vice squad from time to time.  As it happens, the judge was  overseeing a case on police corruption before the prostitution sting, and  he (the judge) claims that he was set up by corrupt police  officers.<br />After the woman turns up dead, the judge hires two corrupt  lawyers to defend him.  What follows is an almost nihilistic tale of  progress through the courts.  Martini's faith in the judicial system must  be next to nothing, as even the narrator, one of the lawyers defending the  judge, almost blithely breaks the law and violates as many of the ethical  precepts as he can find.  While kudos is due Martini for keeping the  courtroom scenes on the side of realism (thus avoiding the problems that  plague so many films and other books in which the courtroom scenes are  wildly improbable), the inability of the characters to obey major ethical  and legal rules is very disconcerting.<br />&quot;The Judge&quot; reads easily  enough, but without a moral center or anything approaching one, the book  does little to engage.  The legal give and take are reasonably interesting,  but the characters are not especially so.  Though the two defense attorneys  are supposedly rather bright, they're constant misdeeds seem difficult at  best to reconcile with their mental abilities.  Yes, smart people do stupid  things, but not this stupid this often.  Finally, one of the problems that  must be overcome is that of the defense attorney, who will represent even  guilty clients because she or he believes in the process and the defense  attorney's role in it.  But the zealousness with which the attorneys break  the law for their client cannot be justified by their abiding belief in  their client's innocence.  Rather, they seem to break the law because theydon't care.  And the protagonist(s) in a legal thriller don't care about  the law, there are serious problems.	1998-10-05
US	52925878	R2WYG5UNE59L3C	0671000667	706219423	Bad Memory	Books	4	2	2	N	N	A well-done hybrid of computers and corporate terrorism	Duane Franklet's &quot;Bad Memory&quot; is an interesting combination of  industrial sabotage, high-tech computer terrorism, and murderous suspense.   Someone calling himself &quot;Hektor&quot; has decided to attack Simec, a  manufacturer of computers.  At first, the attack is embarrassing but not  devastating to the company.  Orders are mixed up so that people receive  something other than what they ordered.  Then follows the simple demand.   Hektor wants $1 million, or he will escalate his attacks.  The company  officers decide not to pay, and events begin to escalate.<br />Simtec's CEO is  Diane Hughes, an outsider with little knowledge of computers whose tenure  has upset many of the officers.  Barry Shephard, however, is the  protagonist.  He is the number three person in the company and the one with  whom Hektor initiates contact.  The company also hires a high-tech firm  that combats corporate terrorists such as Hektor.  But it is Barry who does  most of the work, trying to run a company when the leadership seems  inconveniently absent, trying to protect his family, and trying to  determine just who Hektor is.<br />&quot;Bad Memory&quot; adeptly mixes  computer crimes with old-fashioned murder and thus makes somewhat more  immediate the notion of computer crime.  This is not the story of a  teenager who, sitting at home on a Commodore 64 computer, crashes the  phones of the entire east coast.  Rather, Hektor is a hybrid, someone who  uses computers but who also gets his hands dirty.  When it is true that  simply unplugging the phone line from the computer will prevent a computer  criminal from doing any harm, that simple solution is not available to  Simtec.  Hektor has already been in the system and left his calling cards  in the form of viruses that are time bombs.  Further, Hektor does not have  any particular fear of employing more direct methods such as home invasion  or in-person threats.  There is a very real feel to this novel that removes  it from the fate of similar books in which the hacking (in the pejorative  sense) often takes on comic proportions.  Here, there is no doubt; Hektor  is a menace.<br />&quot;Bad Memory,&quot; by synthesizing these many elements,  elevates itself from the narrow-minded focus of many similar novels.  Barry  Shepard seems real and sympathetic, a man facing an impossible task and  finding that he cannot rely on the people who should be able to help him.   Up until the last chapter (which is a letdown if not a copout), the novel  is engrossing and well worth reading.	1998-09-18
US	52925878	R2RGFXV58P94EH	0486243338	629482478	The Haunted Hotel	Books	4	25	29	N	N	A supernatural, melodramatic mystery	Wilkie Collins, who wrote such landmark (and lengthy) mysteries as  &quot;The Moonstone&quot; and &quot;The Woman in White,&quot; has a very  short effort, too.  &quot;The Haunted Hotel&quot; is that effort.  As  mysteries go, this one is rather understated, though one must make  allowances for the fact that it was written in 1878, long before Christie,  Carr, and others gave the genre a more definite shape.  (One must also make  allowances for the sexism contained in the book lest one hurl the book at  the nearest wall, window, or other suitable repository.)<br />The story begins  when a man and woman become engaged.  Sadly, though, he was already  engaged.  His first fiancee very graciously bows out, and the man marries  his second fiancee.  They head to Venice, where their stay in a castle is  marked by mystery.  A maid quits.  A porter then disappears without a  trace.  Finally, the man dies.  All of these events lead toward a series of  coincidences that draws the many characters together for a final  revelation.<br />The story, though, is more a melodrama than a mystery.   Indeed, the mystery is subverted for much of the story as the characters'  lives overlap, collide, and generally run into each other.  It is easy,  amid this seeming chaos, to lose sight of the second fiancee, a fascinating  character who is so dominated by her sense of fate and supernatural  vengeance that she causes events for which she later blames Fate.   Unfortunately, she is the most interesting character and is absent from too  much of the story.  She alone seems to break free of the rather confining  roles imposed on the others by the times and the culture.  In a longer  book, her absences might be a source of great consternation, but the reader  who pushes through the first 80 or so pages will be well rewarded in the  last 50, where she reclaims center stage and where the mystery also comes  to the fore.	1998-09-18
US	52925878	R3FKV7ZW425NU3	0345343247	933929766	The Murder at the Murder at the Mimosa Inn (Claire Malloy Mysteries, No. 2)	Books	1	10	12	N	N	The title is the best thing about the book	Joan Hess's &quot;The Murder at the Murder at the Mimosa Inn&quot; begins  with great promise as Claire Malloy takes her daughter to the Mimosa Inn  for a mystery murder weekend.  Claire is obsessed with the idea of solving  the mystery and winning the Champagne prize, and her efforts are amusing as  she runs around gathering clues and viewing the other guests with  inordinate suspicion.  For roughly the first half of the book, the story is  enjoyable, particularly when Peter Rosen, an actual cop and Claire's  friend, lover, and competitor, shows up on some sort of secret  mission.<br />When the mock murder is interrupted by a real murder, though,  the story turns into a farce of tragic proportions.  Claire turns out to be  obsessed with interfering in the investigation of an actual murder while  placing her daughter in jeopardy.  It is a reasonable criticism of  mysteries, particularly cozy mysteries such as this, that murder is often  treated too lightly.  Here, especially, the real murder never takes on the  feel of anything other than the entertaining diversion of the staged theme  murder for the weekend.<br />Nothing about the second half of the book is  convincing.  With a real murderer running around, for example, Claire is  more concerned with solving the crime than with ensuring her daughter's  safety by leaving.  And the cop, rather than protecting the guests,  illegally forces them to stay in the hotel with the murderer.  The  &quot;game&quot; of the real murder becomes truly absurd when Claire starts  blurting out statements told to her in confidence by Peter (the cop).  In  short, the characters seem very real when they're solving a pretend murder,  but when it comes to a real murder, they act in extraordinarily bizarre  ways, and the novel suffers immeasurably as a result.	1998-09-18
US	52925878	R2P339UZCLMGA5	0312131984	696685928	Unsafe Keeping	Books	3	3	3	N	N	Runaway cars, arson, and rezoning	Carol Cail's &quot;Unsafe Keeping&quot; begins when Maxey Burnell,  co-owner of an independent newspaper, is nearly hit by a driverless van.   Not to long after that, a similar incident results in the death of a  pedestrian.  At the same time, an arsonist has begun to set fires in the  Boulder, Colorado, neighborhood Maxey calls home.  Partially because of her  role as a reporter but more because of a personal connection to the various  incidents, Maxey investigates and finds that the clues seem to point to the  struggle between preservationists and developers over a mansion that was  once a prominent brothel.<br />While Maxey is trying to unwind the complicated  but interwoven events, she tries also to figure out just where her  ill-defined relationship with a homicide detective is going--if anywhere.   &quot;Unsafe Keeping&quot; is certainly competently written, but it is too  lean for much more.  Though Cail works in a twist ending, the twist does  not come off convincingly.  The heroine-in-peril scenario that is rather  hackneyed already makes an appearance here.  While Cail at least avoids the  problem of the heroine who rushes blindly into obviously dangerous  situations, the convention seems too formulaic here, and the result is that  the novel suffers.  Certainly there are mysteries that are far less  effective, but there are those that are far better, too.	1998-08-23
US	52925878	R23HFVSJRNBC7M	0806908998	114460862	Mental Fitness Puzzles: A Lateral Thinking Approach	Books	4	9	9	N	N	Absolutely one of the best lateral-thinking puzzle books	&quot;Mental Fitness Puzzles&quot; really does offer a breath of fresh air to a genre that has been rather inbred for too long.  The puzzles in this book are, for the most part, much better than those in similar books.  For example, why would a man build a boat and then be happy when it sinks immediately?  Why would another man watch someone steal his wallet and not raise a finger to object?<br />What really sets this book apart is that it is clear that there is independent thought and serious consideration behind the puzzles.  While other books often include well-known but wrong puzzles, this one has intricately constructed puzzles.  The problems are crafted to allow false assumptions, and red herrings are liberally construed, but the four authors clearly have played fairly.  Most of the solutions are not only plausible but reasonable.  (There are a few problematic puzzles, but they are the exceptions.)<br />For those who have not experienced &quot;lateral thinking&quot; puz! zles, they are short descriptions that seem to defy explanation (as in the questions in the first paragraph of this review).  The goal is to find the explanation.  These puzzles are often interactive, and most books require two people, one to read the solution and answer the other's questions.  &quot;Mental Fitness Puzzles&quot; stands apart from its competition, though, in that the authors clearly have made this a book that one person can enjoy alone.  Each problem has clues, but other books work that way, too.  Here, though, the clues tend uniquely to indicate the authors' answer.  That's a welcome feature.  There's room for improvement, but overall, this book is a leap above the competition that I've seen and is well worth the cover price.	1998-08-02
US	52925878	R284GY63716U81	0312951469	83189557	Practical Demonkeeping: A Comedy of Horrors	Books	3	2	5	N	N	A promising start, but too insubstantial	Christopher Moore's &quot;Practical Demonkeeping&quot; is an interesting novel.  Moore is an extraordinarily funny writer, and the book almost reads like an extended stand-up routine for parts of it.  Unfortunately, though, Moore tries to weave in far too many disjointed themes and characters, and the book suffers as a result.  He switches repeatedly between stories, paying dutiful homage to notions of backstory and character development without every fully embracing them.  And that is a shame because there is so much to like in the book.<br />The story is about Catch, a demon, and his travelling companion, Travis, a man who appears to be in his twenties if only because he has not aged since meeting Catch.  The two make their way to Pine Cove, California, where an oddball assortment of locals unknowingly awaits the events that will unfold.  And those events, given Catch's taste for humans, do not promise to be all wine and roses.  When a Djinn shows up, too, a confrontatio! n is in the works.  The Djinn and Travis hope to rid themselves and the world of Catch.  But Catch soon develops plans of his own.<br />The style and substance of &quot;Practical Demonkeeping&quot; bear more than a little resemblance to those of Jane Heller's &quot;Infernal Affairs.&quot;  Both novels deal with supernatural nemeses in comic pieces.  But Heller's characters are more compelling, while those in &quot;Practical Demonkeeping&quot; are, for the most part, caricatures whose quirks are lovingly explored but for whom there is no real emotional attachment.  Still, Moore's considerable skill as a crafter of prose and his humor make the novel pass easily and enjoyably.  It's just that the chapters seem more like anecdotes that, in the end, happen to be connected.	1998-07-26
US	52925878	R12HKANT2T12WL	0312962126	673158720	Extinct	Books	2	2	3	N	N	Better than &quot;Meg&quot; but still improbable	It is probably inevitable that Charles Wilson's &quot;Extinct&quot; will be compared to Steve Alten's &quot;Meg.&quot;  Both books deal with megalodons, the giant ancestors of the great white shark.  If comparisons are in order, it is necessary to state that &quot;Extinct&quot; is better than &quot;Meg&quot; if only because the former does not lapse into farce the way the latter does with its wild improbabilities.  Still, &quot;Extinct&quot; is quite improbable in itself.<br />Wilson does an admirable job of establishing that megalodons, long thought to be extinct, could still exist.  He draws on the relatively recent discovery of &quot;megamouth,&quot; another species previously thought to be long extinct, to make the case.  But the novel becomes very improbable in two respects.  First, the thought of these 25-foot and longer sharks migrating from the deepest part of the Pacific Ocean to the Gulf of Mexico and then up a river is rather hard to accept.  However, that notion is entirely probable compared to the sharks' habit of attacking humans no matter how much easier alternate prey would be.  &quot;Extinct&quot; nearly lapses into the territory of &quot;Jaws: The Revenge,&quot; in which a great white follows a family from New York to the Bahamas.<br />Though the novel moves through its 300+ pages quickly, much of it is, as others have pointed out, rather confusing.  Perhaps to someone familiar with the geography of the area, this confusion would not be a major concern, but I found it a bit too much work to figure out the logistics of some of the attacks.  The book's strongest point is the relationship between two of the sharks' hunters, a single mother who runs a charter boat and a man who runs a fish hatchery.  Wilson shows admirable restraint in allowing their relationship to develop tentatively.  But &quot;Extinct&quot; is the story of the sharks, and it simply becomes too improbable and leads to an unsatisfying ending.	1998-06-28
US	52925878	R2R102RT4MDQLH	0312700466	605185084	Scattershot	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Three &quot;impossible&quot; crimes	Bill Pronzini's nameless detective is face with three locked-room mysteries in this tight novel.  Not only that, but the detective is having problems with Kerry, the woman whom he wants to marry and who is not sure she wants to marry him.  &quot;Scattershot&quot; is almost a collection of interwoven short stories as the nameless detective seeks to explain how a man apparently disappears from a car under observation, how a woman is killed in a locked cabin but not by the only other person in the cabin, and how a jewel thief pulls off a theft from an empty room under constant observation.<br />The story is rather bleak as the nameless detective, despite his proficiency in solving the three cases, faces license revocation and the loss of his love.  The novel is also rather fascinating for the way in which Pronzini interweaves the three apparently unconnected mysteries.  As with Pronzini's other work, &quot;Scattershot&quot; is well written.  And the three &quot;impossible&quot; crimes are clever and fun.  But the problems facing the nameless detective make this book a bleak, if well done, read.	1998-06-28
US	52925878	R1TO5012HSC4DS	0312964331	545531235	Death of a Little Princess : The Tragic Story of the Murder of JonBenet Ramsey	Books	1	11	11	N	N	A shoddy and hasty effort	Carlton Smith and St. Martin's Press had this book printed and ready less than nine months after the death of JonBent Ramsey, the six-year-old beauty pageant contestant who was found dead inside her parents' Boulder, Colorado, home on the morning after Christmas, 1996.  It should therefore come as little surprise, then, that the book is of truly abysmal quality.  From the second page, Smith makes it very clear that Patsy Ramsey, the child's mother, is entirely innocent of the crimes--despite the fact that the police seem to consider her a suspect.  Yet nowhere in the book does Smith do anything to support his repeated claims that she is innocent.  Smith also makes it clear that John Ramsey, JonBent's father, is innocent and offers no evidence for this claim, either.<br />What is probably to be expected from such a hastily published book is the utter lack of information that is contained.  Though Smith does provide some background on the various people in the drama, the majority of the book seems to be devoted to repeating newspaper accounts and press conferences.  Smith does offer editorial comments along the way, condemning feminists, for example, or the media (of which he fails to realize he is a member).  But Smith's insight is at times egregiously misguided as, for example, when he states that the &quot;murder&quot; of a six-year-old child would not have generated such nationwide interest a generation ago (p. 167).  Apparently, Smith is unaware of the Lindbergh kidnaping, to cite but a single example of a well-publicized murder case involving a child.<br />Finally, &quot;Death of a Little Princess&quot; is factually wrong in spots.  Smith states as fact, for example, that the &quot;ransom note&quot; demanded the ransom to be paid entirely in $100 bills.  The truth (as anyone who has seen a photo of the note can say) is different.  While this fact may not be of the greatest significance, it is indicative of the shoddy product that this book is, the result ofa race to publish, a sacrifice of accuracy!  for time.	1998-06-26
US	52925878	R3DEB7ATD01NAH	0821743724	180638404	The Chosen	Books	2	3	4	N	N	Not especially compelling	Vera Abbot is the best restaurant manager in town and very happy with her fianc, with whom she lives.  A mysterious stranger arrives in town and inquires who the best restaurant manager is.  When Vera's name is the most common answer, the stranger (Feldspar) offers her a job at a new resort of sorts.  The offered salary is much greater than her current salary, but she decides not to take the job because of her allegiance to her fianc.  However, when she finds him in their apartment engaged in a mnage  trois with a prostitute and an hermaphrodite, her decision is much easier, and she flees to The Inn to begin her new job.<br />The Inn, built on the site of an infamous sanitarium where patients were tortured, proves to be the source of strange events.  From Feldspar's complete apathy over the restaurant's success to the strangely mute hotel staff, things seem askew from the beginning.  Then, Vera begins having strangely erotic dreams that begin to be the highlight of her days.  Her staff, friends recruited from her former place of employment, begins to act strangely, as well.  Running throughout this narrative is the rampage of a pair of killers who pair off with couples and, after sexual escapades, kill the man and abduct the woman.<br />&quot;The Chosen&quot; is not a particularly frightening read, as there is just something lacking and preventing true chills.  There is a great deal of sex in the book, and some of it seems rather silly, while other parts are rather well done.  In the end, though, there really is not much to draw the reader to the main characters.  Vera seems too ambivalent, which is understandable under the circumstances (a woman who has caught her fianc cheating) but still problematic for engaging the reader.  There is, therefore, a certain distance between the reader and the characters that makes the high body count and graphic sex rather ineffective.  &quot;The Chosen&quot; is competently written, but it is little more than that.	1998-06-24
US	52925878	R10KMT2VFL6ZXL	0962887005	262003610	Locked Room Murders and Other Impossible Crimes: A Comprehensive Bibliography	Books	5	15	15	N	N	Astonishing scope	Robert Adey has compiled a remarkable volume for any fan of the locked-room or &quot;impossible&quot; crime in mysteries.  This volume lists over 2,000 separate stories (from the short story to the novel) and includes information about the puzzle presented (e.g., the victim was stabbed in an empty room while the only entrance was under constant guard), the sources where one might find the story (e.g., a particular magazine or publisher), and the solution.  It is fortunate that Mr. Adey had the good sense to include the solutions in a separate section so that the reader of the volume is not likely to happen upon this information by accident.<br />For those who are not familiar with the locked-room crime, it is a sub-genre of mystery or crime fiction, and the &quot;howdunnit&quot; aspect often takes center stage.  Locked-room puzzles are not without their problems, and Mr. Adey deals with them in the essays that introduce the book, but when done well, a locked-room mystery is a thing of beauty.  For those who agree with this assessment, Mr. Adey's hefty tome is an invaluable resource.  (It should be noted, however, that not all of the crimes in &quot;Locked Room Murders&quot; are in fact murders.  Some are thefts, and some are other crimes.)  Perhaps the only substantial criticism is that the book could benefit from the addition of indeces.  As it is, the mysteries are listed alphabetically by author.	1998-05-10
US	52925878	R2GQ6J21WJJ95E	0930330447	718442353	Death from a Top Hat (Library of Crime Classics)	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Two perplexing locked-room murders	&quot;Death From a Top Hat&quot; has been called a great first novel.  For fans of locked-room mysteries, author Clayton Rawson does indeed offer a feast.  The book features two locked-room murders and pays homage to the master of the impossible crime, John Dickson Carr, by containing a discussion of the sort found in Carr's &quot;The Three Coffins.&quot;<br />The book, one of the &quot;Golden Age&quot; mysteries, features the Great Merlini as the man who solves the crimes.  Merlini is a magician and Rawson's frequent protagonist.  When a magician is found dead inside his locked and thoroughly sealed apartment, police call in Merlini to help explain the impossible.  The suspects, however, are all magicians, and any one of them probably could have come up with several ways of achieving the effect.  Before all is said and done, Rawson gives a fascinating look at the world of magic and misdirection.  Fans of contemporary mysteries might not be happy with the lack of character development, of which there is almost none.  But for those who like their mysteries to be baffling conundrums, this book is a must-read.	1998-04-22
US	52925878	RAP5ESB3YM988	093033082X	237705463	Rocket to the Morgue	Books	3	9	10	N	N	A locked-room mystery in the sci-fi community of the 1940s	Anthony Boucher's is one of the more prominent names in mystery writing; indeed, an annual convention of great stature, Bouchercon, is named after him.  &quot;Rocket to the Morgue&quot; is one of Boucher's locked-room mysteries and is the sequel to &quot;Nine Times Nine,&quot; another locked-room mystery.  &quot;Rocket to the Morgue&quot; combines the crime-solving talents of Suster Ursula, who solved the first locked-room crime, and Lieutenant Marshall of the L.A.P.D., who was also in on the first crime.<br />Hilary Foulkes is the son of one of the greats of science fiction, and he calls the police to report apparent attempts on his life.  Marshall arrives just in time to be present for the arrival of a bomb.  Though the police defuse the bomb, soon Foulkes is found stabbed the back in a room that seems to have been securely locked.  Only two doors exist, and one of them is chained from the inside.  The other door leads to another room, where several observers are prepared to swear that nobody went into or came out of the room in which Foulkes was found.  Motives are hardly a problem--unless too many motives is a problem.  Foulkes has been exceedingly penurious in allowing use of his father's works, even denying one of the nuns permission to translate a book into Braille.<br />As much as &quot;Rocket to the Morgue&quot; (which Boucher originally published under the name H.H. Holmes) belongs to the locked-room subgenre of mysteries (and therefore to the classic tradition in which John Dickson Carr and Clayton Rawson wrote), it is also very much concerned with the nascent science-fiction genre, then contained to the pulps and fanzines.  In 1940s' Los Angeles, the future of science seemed almost limitless, and Boucher's cast of suspects delights in exploring the frontiers of the new world.  Still, the centerpiece of the book is the mystery of the locked room, and the book succeeds or fails on the strength of the puzzle and its solution. The puzzle is competently constructed, and the clues are all there, to be certain.  Still, there is something a bit unsatisfying about the end result when one compares it to the works of the other masters of the locked-room.	1998-04-05
US	52925878	RXYF83WV1N3MZ	0380788764	61531402	Charm City (Tess Monaghan Novel)	Books	2	8	12	N	N	Disappointing	&quot;Charm City&quot; is Laura Lippman's second mystery set in Baltimore.  (The other one is &quot;Baltimore Blues.&quot;)  In this effort, the city is excited about the possible return of professional basketball, and the savior is &quot;Wink&quot; Wynkowski, a business tycoon.  The return of basketball is seriously jeopardized when the local paper prints a story detailing Wink's sordid past and current financial problems.  Tess Monaghan, who used to be a reporter before her paper folded and who is studying to be a private investigator, is hired to investigate the article.  As it turns out, the article was not supposed to have been published, but it seems someone used the newspaper's computers in order to print the story without authorization.<br />There seem to be two prime suspects, and they are the co-authors of the story.  One of the two is a friend of Tess, and he seems to have used her as his alibi for the night in question--even though the two were not together.  The other co-author is a young and brash reporter with some unsavory journalism techniques.  When Wink turns up dead in what appears to be a suicide, the stakes have suddenly gone up, and Tess must worry about her own life.  Throughout all of this, she also must deal with the beating of her uncle and the greyhound with bad breath that she cares for while her uncle is in the hospital.  When men start tailing her, Tess must watch her every step lest it be her last.<br />&quot;Charm City&quot; fails in many ways.  Sadly, it is not well written, and it certainly could have been improved by a good editor.  Too often, Ms. Lippman says things she simply does not mean, as, for example, when she uses pronouns carelessly.  At other times, the writing is simply bad.  The grammar errors are only one problem, though.  A more serious one is that the third-person narrator is not honest; Ms. Lippman has not played by the rules of the mystery (though it is not clear at all that the clues are there to begin with).  Finally, the protagonist, who praises her own skills at the end of the book, does very little right and by all rights should have died but for a nifty bit of deus ex machina.  All in all, &quot;Charm City&quot; is a disappointing effort.	1998-03-30
US	52925878	R1T62168MNX590	0345371496	210105080	The Case of the Singing Skirt	Books	3	2	2	N	N	Not Perry Mason's best but still enjoyable	&quot;The Case of the Singing Skirt&quot; is one of Erle Stanley Gardner's eighty-five Perry Mason books.  In this case, the famed defense attorney undertakes to help Ellen Robb, a cigar-and-cigarette girl who works at a local gambling club.  Because she refused to help the owner swindle a gambler, Ellen finds herself framed for the theft of a certain amount of money.  Mason quickly defuses that situation, enabling the woman to keep the money and threatening suit against the employer for defamation.  Events escalate soon, though, when Ellen turns up with a gun in her possession that she cannot explain.  Mason suspects that another attempt to frame Ellen is in the works, and he takes steps to thwart that attempt.  When a woman turns up dead, though, Mason must defend his client on murder charges--and himself against charges of being an accessory after the fact.<br />&quot;The Case of the Singing Skirt&quot; is really a novel in two parts.  The first part deals with the machinations of the various parties before court, and the second part puts Mason in his element--the courtroom.  As a legal thriller, &quot;The Case of the Singing Skirt&quot; is passable, though not particularly exciting.  Mason spends a great deal of time deflecting his opponent's thrusts, but only in the last few pages does Mason go on the offensive.  As a result, this book is not the best forum for Mason's considerable legal expertise.  As a mystery, there is little doubt who the murderer is.  Once one starts with the premise that Mason's clients are, as a rule, innocent, there is little more to figure out.  Still, eighty-five books with a single character do not come about by accident, and there is a fair amount of charm to &quot;The Case of the Singing Skirt.&quot;	1998-03-30
US	52925878	R4B8MB0N96REW	0930330382	228924348	He Who Whispers (Dr. Gideon Fell Mystery)	Books	5	13	13	N	N	Another &quot;impossible&quot; murder from the mystery grandmaster	John Dickson Carr (a.k.a. Carter Dickson or Carr Dickson) was one of the greats of the mystery genre, specializing in locked-room mysteries and always playing scrupulously fairly with the clues.  In this entry featuring detective Gideon Fell, the murder takes place in a tower by the edge of a river.  A man is seen to climb the tower's spiral staircase.  Two people go up there to talk with him, and then he is left alone.  The next anyone hears of him is when some children find him run through with a sword.  And yet the evidence is absolutely clear that nobody else could have been on the tower.<br />For mystery readers who like their puzzles complex, there simply is no author better than Carr, who delighted in explaining the impossible.  This, and his other novels, are highly recommended.  (Note, though, that the solution here is one of the more complicated ones, and it might be better for those who have not experienced Carr to start with another book first.)	1998-03-10
US	52925878	RG5C3FH050SY0	0786105917	566836700	The Big Bow Mystery	Books	3	18	21	N	N	One of the earliest locked-room mysteries	Author Israel Zangwill wrote one of the earliest locked-room mysteries in &quot;The Big Bow Mystery.&quot;  A woman becomes discouraged when she cannot wake her new lodger.  He is in his room, which has been locked from the inside.  Despite her fervent knocks, she simply cannot wake him, and she hears no sounds from within.  Convinced that her lodger has been murdered, she enlists the help of a celebrated ex-detective neighbor.  He breaks down the door, and the lodger is found dead in his bed, his throat slit.  The door was indeed locked from the inside, and the windows were similarly secured.  Thus is the puzzle at the heart of one of the earliest (circa 1891) locked-room mysteries.<br />Zangwill has indeed included a masterful puzzle, though the story itself is somewhat problematic.  The middle of the story is unnecessarily complex and confusing, and there is a bit too much devotion to politics.  Still, the book is very accessible, and anyone with a fondness for the sort of &quot;impossible&quot; crime that John Dickson Carr (a.k.a. Carter Dickson, a.k.a. Carr Dickson) later made famous should read this early entry to the genre.<br />Note:  I read the paperback book for this review and have not listened to the tapes.	1998-03-08
US	52925878	R1CLT97HFWSFJ6	0345424875	409184051	No Island of Sanity: Paula Jones v. Bill Clinton: The Supreme Court on Trial (Library of Contemporary Thought)	Books	1	9	13	N	N	A valid point lost in a morass of hostility and name-calling	Famed lawyer Vincent Bugliosi (who successfully prosecuted Charles Manson) has delivered an ascerbic and emotional diatribe in which he takes on the Supreme Court, the religious right, the media, Rush Limbaugh, and the American public.  Nominally, the focus of the book is the Supreme Court's decision in _Jones v. Clinton_, in which the Court held unanimously that Paula Jones had the right to proceed to trial with her lawsuit against President Clinton and that the office of the presidency did not provide Clinton with the automatic right to postpone the suit until after he leaves office.  Bugliosi tries to situate this decision within the context of a society gone crazy.<br />The crux of Bugliosi's criticism is that the Court failed to balance the private interest of Paula Jones in having her case heard without delay against the public interest of having a president with his full attention devoted to the job.  In this portion of the argument, Bugliosi, though not a constitutional scholar, makes a great deal of sense, particularly in pointing out that soldiers in basic training would enjoy the sort of temporary immunity Clinton sought.  Bugliosi also points out that the Supreme Court grossly underestimated the pressures of the presidency and the time demands of a trial.<br />However, &quot;No Island of Sanity&quot; goes far beyond the author's nominal target and is wildly inconsistent in spots.  For example, Bugliosi tackles the issue of judicial review, one of the most fundamental of principles in American jurisprudence.  (Judicial review, established in the landmark case of _Marbury v. Madison_, is the principle that allows the courts to declare acts of Congress unconstitutional.)  Certainly, judicial review is not without its detractors, and there are sound arguments against it.  But Bugliosi goes beyond sound arguments and presents a thoroughly one-sided argument against judicial review, in the process overlooking arguments in favor and mischaracterizing Justice Marshall, who authored the _Marbury_ opinion.<br />&quot;No Island of Sanity&quot; also engages in specious logic in other areas and includes far too much sarcasm and name-calling for comfort.  While there is no need for a criticism of the highest court in the land to be entirely dry legalese, Bugliosi's resort to ad personem attacks is thoroughly unjustified and extraordinarily unprofessional.  Further, as the book takes a great deal of time extolling just how adept Bugliosi is at separating truth from fallacy, it is almost embarrassing when he engages in such transparent logic and such childish argument techniques as name calling (for which he castigates Limbaugh (p. 10)).  For example, Bugliosi calls the members of the &quot;ultraconservative wing&quot; of the Republican Party &quot;beady-eyed, narow-minded people&quot; (p. 56).  He accuses Justice Antonin Scalia of having no point and of having only one objective, &quot;to be cute and sarcastic&quot; (p. 99).  Of the editorial boards on the _New York Times_ and _Washington Post_, Bugliosi writes &quot;we're dealing with some very, very mediocre minds&quot; (p. 119) and then calls them &quot;barons of buffoonery, sultans of silliness, dukes of duncery&quot; (p. 121).<br />Most serious, though, is the rambling nature of &quot;No Island of Sanity.&quot;  Bugliosi takes issue, for example, with teenage girls wearing jeans (pp. 24-25), and it is difficult to see how this topic has anything to do with the Supreme Court's decision or can serve to do much more than divert the reader.  What could have been a concise piece challenging a Supreme Court ruling devolves, almost before it begins, into one man's ramblings about just about anything that seemed to cross his mind.  Between the rambling diatribes about matters at best tangentially related and the _ad hominem_ attacks, &quot;No Island of Sanity&quot; is an unprofessional and mean-spirited attack hardly worth reading.	1998-03-07
US	52925878	R1DS2MFM98EZW4	0373262140	823168283	Writers Of The Purple Sage	Books	4	5	6	N	N	A well-rounded mystery	Jolie Wyatt, recently divorced and trying to raise a teenage son, is meeting with her writers' group one night when she learns that Judge Volney Osler has died.  What might not have been such a big deal--after all, people do die, and the Judge was old--becomes a very big deal when it turns out that the Judge was murdered.  What was a very big deal becomes a huge deal when the murderer's method turns out to be one Jolie herself devised for her as-yet-unpublished mystery novel.  Since she had shared her manuscript with only the other members of the group and the officer investigating the crime, the list of suspects is small indeed.  When the police officer devotes particular attention to Jolie, the townspeople of Purple Sage have little trouble narrowing the suspect list down to one:  Jolie.  The fact that Jolie had an argument with the victim shortly before his death does little to help her case.<br />With a very personal interest in solving the crime to absolve herself, Jolie begins to poke around.  Soon she discovers motives for many of her writing group, but still the solution seems elusive--and the danger seems to be getting closer to home.  With a son to protect and an ex-husband trying to protect her (and threaten her independence), Jolie finds that her efforts to solve the crime are not entirely consistent with her efforts to maintain her small family.<br />&quot;Writers of the Purple Sage&quot; is Barbara Burnett Smith's first novel in the Purple Sage series, and it is a most enjoyable read.  Smith juggles a traditional cozy mystery in the Christie sense with a domestic tale, and it is the latter that really gives the novel its strength.  Jolie Wyatt, as a single mother, is a very sympathetic character who is afraid of losing the life she has provided for her son and who has become an island unto herself.  The events surrounding the murder threaten her and her son, and she fights back bravely.  While the everyday citizen investing a crime so thoroughly can beproblematic (and is indeed a problem in many of the novels of the cozy mystery genre), Smith seems well aware of this problem and has made strides toward explaining Jolie's sleuthing.  Jolie investigates in self-defense.  I'm not sure that this justification works completely, and there are times when Jolie seems a bit too brazen for either her own good or common sense, but overall the novel works well and is a pleasure to read.	1998-02-18
US	52925878	RWD0RB9ZGZ7ZV	0806999381	652108294	Clever Lateral Thinking Puzzles	Books	2	4	4	N	N	The puzzles are fine; the answers aren't	Edward J. Harshman's &quot;Clever Lateral Thinking Puzzles&quot; is a rather serious disappointment.  For the uninitiated, &quot;lateral thinking puzzles&quot; are mind exercises that discourage standard problem-solving methods and reward cleverness and innovation.  One of the problems with Harshman's book is that it includes no instructions or introduction.  Some sort of proem would have gone a long way to helping the uninitiated.  While it would seem clear what the puzzles want (i.e., an explanation of apparently strange facts), there is indeed room to wonder.<br />Consider, for example, the puzzle in which a man locks his son out of the house, for which the son thanks his father.  Harshman's solution is that the father's actions forced the pampered son to strike out on his own and make a living for himself.  While there is nothing wrong with that solution as *an* (as opposed to *the*) answer, certainly other answers come to mind.  The father could have bombed the house for fleas without the son being aware of that fact; the father then could have locked the door to prevent his son from inadvertently walking in and inhaling the noxious fumes.  The point is that few of the solutions are unique, and there is really no clear way to arrive at Harshman's answer and not an alternate one that works.<br />In fairness, this problem is hardly unique to &quot;Clever Lateral Thinking Puzzles.&quot;  Games such as &quot;MindTrap&quot; and the Mensa quiz books contain similar problems, though not on the scale that &quot;Clever Lateral Thinking Puzzles&quot; does.  And at least in the case of MindTrap, it is clearly intended to be interactive and therefore allows one person to answer questions and avoid the ambiguities.	1998-02-12
US	52925878	R2TIB3KU9HSX0J	0679755829	7056089	Remembering Satan:  A Tragic Case of Recovered Memory	Books	4	51	56	N	N	A fascinating and frustrating case of alleged satanic abuse	&quot;Remembering Satan&quot; is an account of one of the more prominent and tragic cases of alleged child abuse and satanic ritual abuse (SRA).  Author Lawrence Wright makes it clear that he does not believe the majority of the allegations, and how could he?  What started as &quot;mere&quot; allegations of sexual abuse soon developed into allegations of a widespread satanic cult that included many members of the investigating police force, lawyers, judges, and many others.<br />The allegations started when Ericka and Julie Ingram accused their father, Paul Ingram, of molesting them.  Paul Ingram was a deputy sheriff and deeply religious man in Olympia, Washington.  He soon admitted to the allegations and began naming others as participants in all manner of rapes, orgies, and satanic rituals.  The problem with the case, though, was that the allegations kept growing.  Soon the alleged participants were talking about photographs, sacrifices of animals and human babies, and much more--none of which could be verified by any physical evidence.  Further, the stories were often contradictory or patently false.<br />Wright attempts to combine in a relatively slim volume the successful prosecution of Paul Ingram (who confessed), the destruction of a family and the lives of many others, and the hysteria surrounding the search for satanic cults.  He locates these events within the larger context of repressed memories and the television talk-show dominated landscape of 1980s' America.  There are problems in this approach as the subject matter seems to be one that cannot be captured in the book's approximately 200 pages, but Wright does an extraordinary job in presenting the material he has chosen to include.<br />For those who have trouble crediting the outlandish claims of those who advocate widespread SRA, this book should be a fascinating read.  For those who find themselves on the other side of the fence and believe fully in the validity of repressed memories, &quot;Remembering Satan&quot; will probably seem to be a slap in the face or just another part of the conspiracy.  Either way, the Ingram case itself, which is the focus of this book, is a fascinating study in a modern-day witch hunt and the credulity of the investigators--and the accused.	1998-02-12
US	52925878	R3LGCB555WDHJ0	0385490992	454775948	The Street Lawyer	Books	3	1	1	N	N	A somewhat pedestrian effort	A crazed, homeless gunman takes Michael Brock and eight other attorneys at the prestigious Washington, D.C., law firm of Drake &amp; Sweeney hostage, setting in motion a chain of events and major change of life that Michael could not have anticipated the day before.  Then, he had been comfortable in his job, well paid and on the fast track to partnership, which could mean a million dollars a year for the rest of his life.  Soon after he escapes from the hostage crisis, he begins taking steps that lead him away from corporate antitrust law and into a small law firm dedicated to advocacy for the homeless.  Prior to leaving, however, he purloins a client file, in which he hopes to find information about the deaths of five homeless people.  The file becomes both his weapon for use against the firm due to the information in it and the firm's weapon against him because of his theft of it.<br />&quot;The Street Lawyer&quot; is perhaps John Grisham's most socially-conscious effort (though one might well consider &quot;The Chamber,&quot; which dealt with the death penalty, to hold that distinction), and it therefore contains a fair amount of politics in it, especially in the frequent complaints of Mordecai Green, the lawyer who heads the small firm that Michael joins.  Readers who prefer the clear-cut lines of good and (very) bad of other Grisham efforts (particularly &quot;The Firm&quot; and &quot;The Pelican Brief&quot;) may be disappointed by the gray areas here, for much of the book reads as an indictment of the upper middle and upper classes and of republicans.  Grisham does not allow these indictments to get in the way of the story too frequently, though, and he brings the story to a conclusion quite similar to that in &quot;The Rainmaker,&quot; albeit with less over-the-top drama.<br />The issue of homelessness is indeed an important one, and Grisham includes a personal afterword suggesting his newfound awareness of the problem and the factors contributing to it.  Onecannot help but wonder, however, whether the author is genuinely concerned or merely paying lip service while using the problem for a novel that will no doubt be the source of more millions of dollars for him.  During the hostage crisis that starts the book, the gunman has all of the hostages divulge their salaries and the amounts they've given to charities for the poor.  The message is clear, especially because the protagonist (Michael) feels guilty for having done nothing to help others.  And yet &quot;The Street Lawyer&quot; arrived on book stores' shelves with a list price of $27.95--considerably higher than many hardcovers--and nary a mention that the proceeds would in any way help anyone besides Mr. Grisham, his agent and publisher, and the stores selling the book.<br />Compared to other Grisham efforts, &quot;The Street Lawyer&quot; probably does not rank among his best.  Compared to other legal novels in general, the law in &quot;The Street Lawyer&quot; is rather naive or simplistic.  While this simplicity should ensure that the wide audience that is the book's target does not lose interest with discussions of legal niceties, it does make for a somewhat unbelievable resolution and some problematic ethical issues.	1998-02-10
US	52925878	R3EKZXO2HU1PWN	0786889055	817260381	Voodoo River (Elvis Cole Novels)	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Best of the Elvis Cole series &amp; a good spot for newcomers	Robert Crais's detective, Elvis Cole, is a wise-cracking P.I. working in Los Angeles whose office is adorned with Disney characters.  In &quot;Voodoo River,&quot; an actress hires Elvis to check into her background and, specifically, her adoption years ago.  Elvis takes the case and goes to Louisiana on what should be a fairly easy case.  Much to his surprise, though, he finds that another detective is already investigating and that people's lives are soon at stake.<br />The plot of any Crais novel is almost unnecessary, though, since the writing is so good and so enjoyable.  That's not to say that the plots are not well crafted and exciting; they are.  Crais is a gifted writer, and his creation of Elvis Cole (along with the tight-lipped Joe Pike) is an engaging and thoroughly entertaining character.  What sets &quot;Voodoo River&quot; apart from the previous series entries (&quot;The Monkey's Raincoat,&quot; &quot;Stalking the Angel,&quot; &quot;Lullaby Town,&quot; and &quot;Free Fall,&quot; in that order) is that Cole is both at his most personable and most vulnerable here, largely due to the introduction of Lucy, a Louisiana attorney in whom Elvis develops a romantic interest.  As always, Joe Pike and Elvis's cat are along for the ride and add color, but this entry into the series thrives on how personal it gets.  A great deal of the power of the book comes from the issue of adoption, one Crais has taken from his own life.  The actress's motive for seeking information is not that she has an insatiable, talk-show desire to learn about her &quot;real&quot; family.  Rather, she needs medical information.  With so many adopted children, that's the way it is--they're happy with their adoptive families and consider them in every respect their &quot;real&quot; families.<br />As with all the novels in the series, Crais gives great attention to the setting, portraying faithfully the flavor, look, and feel of the locale while never forgetting the action and suspense that have made him a best-selling and award-winning author. As in any series, there are good and bad places to begin.  The Elvis Cole series does not depend to a great extent on sequence, and &quot;Voodoo River&quot; therefore is an ideal place to jump in.	1998-02-05
US	52925878	R1WT59IEVXKYX3	0380725746	24090548	Simple Simon	Books	3	6	9	N	N	An intriguing premise not fully explored	The title character of Ryne Douglas Pearson's &quot;Simple Simon&quot; is a 16-year-old autistic boy with a remarkable skill for doing puzzles.  One day, he is given a magazine from a group for the super intelligent.  The magazine includes an apparently random series of letters and numbers, which Simon decodes in a matter of seconds, thereby doing what computers could not.  The message hidden in that series instructs him to call a number to say that he has solved puzzle 99.  As it happens, Simon, who needs explicit instructions to get off the bus at his own house, has just broken the most sophisticated code out there, and he therefore becomes a danger or a valuable commodity to those forces with an interest in the code.  Those forces include, at the most lethal, a Japanese woman who is expert at sado-sexual torture and in fact thrives on such work.  After Simon's parents are murdered, Simon is cared for by a nurse and her FBI agent husband, who must seek to protect the boy while extricating himself from danger as well.<br />The puzzle angle of &quot;Simple Simon&quot; serves as the hook for what is otherwise a fairly standard thriller--capable and interesting, but with little to set it apart from others in the genre.  That Pearson declined to use more puzzles or to explore that angle more fully is too bad, for the idea of an autistic (whether the depiction of autism is accurate I leave to others with more knowledge of the topic) boy is an intriguing one as well as a relatively fresh one.	1998-02-02
US	52925878	RWVR13BKD3Y78	0553066420	326757840	LSAT: Triple Prep Volume 2	Books	5	26	33	N	N	Actual tests are absolutely vital for successful preparation	For anyone contemplating law school, the L.S.A.T. is a necessary evil.  Finding books that purport to help the student prepare for the test is not hard at all, but many of them do more harm than good.  The single most important thing for the soon-to-be test taker is practice on actual tests, and that's precisely what this book delivers.  Because the L.S.A.T. is a copyrighted test, very few books available contain actual tests.  The authors of the books that purport to help students prepare for the L.S.A.T. therefore often make up their own exams.<br />There is nothing inherently wrong with practicing on test questions that are not genuine, but problems certainly can arise.  For example, the sample questions may not be based on the most recent exams or may simply be very poorly thought out.  There's also the serious problem that can occur when the sample quesions are, quite simply, wrong.<br />The L.S.A.T. is not perfect, but at least you're studying the actual questions, be they right or wrong.  Further, when the test nears, the student can time him- or herself far more accurately using actual tests.  Note, however, that the tests reproduced in this book contain only four sections, while the actual tests contain five sections.  The L.S.A.T. contains a section that is not graded but is instead used to test questions for future tests.  Those sections are not reproduced in this book.  No matter what non-official books the student uses to prepare for the exam, actual tests are vital, and that's what this book provides.  And with the L.S.A.T. such a vital part of the application process, it is far better to prepare with these tests than to be caught by surprise in the exam room.	1998-01-30
US	52925878	R24ZIDRFERZ6R6	0060187468	226825332	Rough Justice	Books	1	3	3	N	N	Read Scott Turow or Barry Reed instead; skip this	In the film &quot;From the Hip,&quot; Judd Nelson plays a young, hot-shot attorney who successfully manages to trick the man he is defending into hanging himself on the witness stand.  The end of the film seems to applaud this sense of &quot;justice.&quot;  Lisa Scottoline's &quot;Rough Justice&quot; subscribes to the same sense of base morality.  The story really begins after the jury is handed the case of a man tried for murder in what may or may not have been a botched car-jacking.  The defendant maintained that he acted in self-defense when a homeless man tried to steal the defendant's car.  But his story is a fabrication, as he confesses to Marta, his attorney and a member of an all-female law firm.  Marta then undertakes to find the evidence to convict her client (whom she took an oath to defend) before the jury returns a verdict.  Marta proceeds to commit crime after crime while endangering the lives of her coworkers and involving others in her illegal machinations.<br />&quot;Rough Justice&quot; fails horribly in that it attempts to combine a Grisham-style thriller with a story of a woman's quest for revenge.  The problem is that the heroine and her coworkers are so thoroughly repulsive and unethical that they defy any sympathy.  Like it or not, the defense attorney's job is to defend the client, and sometimes that does mean securing an acquittal for a guilty client.  In an adversarial system of justice, that happens from time to time.  It is one thing to turn on the client, but the character of Marta does far more than that by acting so obstinately and foolishly that she threatens ruin for others, including a juror.  This novel does a disservice not only to the reader but to the legal system, which already has enough problems in the public eye without those this book adds.	1998-01-24
US	52925878	RK9FPUW8XDSF	037570051X	583192728	Exegesis	Books	3	3	5	N	Y	A fast and compelling, albeit flawed, story	Astro Teller's first novel, &quot;Exegesis&quot; consists almost entirely of e-mail exchanges.  The story begins when Alice Lu, a 24-year-old doctoral candidate at Stanford, receives a cryptic e-mail containing only the message &quot;Hello, Alice.&quot;  Soon, she realizes that the sender is Edgar, an artificial-intelligence program on which she was working.  What follows is a series of e-mails in which Edgar becomes increasingly more sentient and begins to cause more and more trouble, both for itself and for Alice.<br />&quot;Exegesis&quot; is a fast and compelling read, though there are parts in the middle in which the book does tend to drag, a result that seems to be due in large part to the structure of the novel.  Through much of the novel, Alice serves as Edgar's tutor, and the lessons do become somewhat mundane.  In addition, the more compelling character is Edgar.  Alice, by contrast, is at times a bit too obtuse for comfort.  &quot;Exegesis&quot; is not unduly technical, though a reader without familiarity with e-mail or with the Usenet might find some of the going a little bit confusing.  Even with these shortcomings in the story, though, I very much enjoyed &quot;Exegesis,&quot; and I can give it a qualified recommendation.	1998-01-24
US	52925878	R1IKGSP93ODDS3	0679454292	724438524	The Death and Life of Bobby Z	Books	4	23	23	N	Y	A wild ride and a very fast read	Author Don Winslow wrote this book largely on a train during commutes and without an outline--and it shows.  &quot;The Death and Life of Bobby Z&quot; is a story that goes where it wants when it wants at a furious pace.  The setup for the story is fairly simple.  A big-time loser of a prison inmate kills another inmate in order to prevent the same thing from happening to him.  As it happens, he resembles the notorious drug dealer Bobby Z.  So the feds offer him a deal.  They want to trade the dealer to a Mexican drug kingpin in exchange for an agent, but Bobby Z happens to be dead.  So if the loser will take the place of Bobby Z, they'll trade him and let him fend for himself.  But the real Bobby Z, it turns out, has fathered a child, whom the imposter Bobby Z takes under his wing while fleeing from just about everybody and fleeing across Mexico and California.<br />One of the most compelling aspects of &quot;The Death and Life of Bobby Z&quot; is the style in which Winslow writes.  The novel is almost conversational, and Winslow includes liberal doses of California surfer and Mexican jargon.  To his credit, Winslow aptly pulls off what could have been an abysmal experiment.  The style works with the plot to make this novel one of the fastest reads in a long time.<br />On an unrelated note, there is a Don Winslow who writes what can politely be called &quot;erotic&quot; novels.  These are two entirely different people.  The Winslow who wrote &quot;The Death and Life of Bobby Z&quot; is the author of the Neal Carey series (&quot;The Trail to Buddha's Mirror,&quot; &quot;A Cool Breeze on the Underground,&quot; etc.).  In addition, he wrote &quot;A Winter Spy&quot; under the name McDonald Lloyd.	1998-01-23
US	52925878	R16RYB2E0D1WH	0671880187	536943079	Kitchen	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Remarkably heartfelt and moving	Banana Yoshimoto's first effort consists of two stories, each of which deals with loss.  In the first, &quot;Kitchen,&quot; a young woman loses her family and is invited to stay with an acquaintance and his &quot;mother&quot; (who had been the father prior to getting a sex change).  The second story deals with a young woman whose lover has died far too young.  Yoshimoto's stories are simple, heartfelt tales of emotion told in a deceptively simple style.  Lurking beneath the surface, however, is a passion and honesty that is welcome and powerful.  She writes with Japan as a background, but the emotions and situations she describes are universal and strike an immediate chord.  I highly recommend this book.	1998-01-21
US	52925878	R28Q1DATAWY4JV	0679723129	425104436	Gideon's Trumpet: How One Man, a Poor Prisoner, Took His Case to the Supreme Court-and Changed the Law of the United States	Books	4	43	49	N	N	The true story of a man fighting for his right	Clarence Earl Gideon would have been less than an historical footnote had he not written to the U.S. Supreme Court asking for, in essence, a &quot;get out of jail free&quot; card.  Gideon, who would be a career criminal by contemporary definitions, was in a Florida jail for breaking and entering with intent to commit a misdemeanor.  In his letter to the nation's highest court, Gideon wrote in pencil that his constitutional rights were violated when he was denied the right to have an attorney at his trial.  In the end, the Supreme Court agreed with Gideon and reversed a prior decision to hold that people in Gideon's position (but not all accused persons) are entitled to the assistance of a lawyer and to have the state pay for one if necessary.<br />&quot;Gideon's Trumpet&quot; tells the story of one man's improbable battle and the Court's ultimate decision in his favor.  Author Anthony Lewis has done a remarkable job of putting a human face (several, actually) on one of the landmark cases in criminal procedure and in making the story accessible to any adult regardless of a lack of formal legal training.  In &quot;Gideon's Trumpet,&quot; Lewis presents all of the characters as humans, not simply as people whose names later stand for legal rules (a la Miranda).  &quot;Gideon's Trumpet&quot; also represents a ray of hope for those who think the legal system is solely the prerogative of the wealthy and politically connected, for here is the story of a virtual nobody who without the help of an attorney undertook a monumental process.  In fact, &quot;Gideon's Trumpet&quot; might be a bit too optimistic.  Written in 1964, the book could not have foreseen the subsequent studies that have shown that *Gideon v. Wainright* (the name of the case) has not substantially altered conviction rates.  Still, the book tells a remarkable story quite well.  Perhaps the highest praise is that this true story reads as a novel.	1998-01-21
US	52925878	R8HFN0KPW77X0	0836214439	18895187	Dave Barry's Book of Bad Songs	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Dave Barry picks an easy target	To review a Dave Barry book, one really only needs two words:  Dave Barry.  Those two words should convey to Barry fans that they are in for more hilarity and deep philosophical insights (such as that The Captain &amp; Tennille's &quot;Do That To Me One More Time&quot; sounds an awful lot like a putdown), while those who dislike Barry are free to remain strapped into their beds at the asylum.  &quot;Dave Barry's Book of Bad Songs&quot; is an extension of his Miami Herald syndicated newspaper column, and as such it's tried-and-true material.  And how could it miss?  With songs like &quot;MacArthur Park&quot; lamenting the fate of cakes left out in the rain, the target is an easy one.  The most serious shortcoming of this book is that it is far too short and not likely to last more than an hour.  But where else can one have this much fun in an hour without actually listening to the &quot;Teen Angel&quot; tale of the girl who jumped in front of a train for a ring?	1998-01-21
US	52925878	R3LCWTP0RSYK2R	0553106163	153158875	And Then You Die...	Books	3	3	3	N	N	An epic but strangely not very compelling story	Iris Johansen's &quot;And Then You Die...&quot; begins with an uncanny resemblance to Michael Chrichton's &quot;The Andromeda Strain.&quot;  A woman (Bess) and her sister travel to a Mexican town only to find that the town has been wiped out, apparently by a disease of some sort.  The sole survivor is a baby.  As the sisters tend to the baby, soldiers arrive.  Realizing that it is too early for soldiers to have responded to a call for help, Bess sends her sister away for her own protection and that of the baby.  The soldiers capture Bess, and she wakes in a hospital with an officer in the Mexican army looking over her.  Immediately, Bess knows the officer is not to be trusted, and she escapes with the aid of another person.  But can she trust her rescuer?  And what caused the deaths in the village yet spared the child?<br />The plot of &quot;And Then You Die...&quot; is much more than just what I have described, but to give away much more would be to spoil the experience.  As a thriller, &quot;And Then You Die&quot; is rather tame.  Though Bess is constantly on the run, there seldom seems to be an imminent threat to her.  There are, to be certain, life-threatening situations, but they almost seem scheduled.  The plot, however, goes far beyond Bess's own plight, and it almost seems that there are two novels here.  What could be a relentless thriller turns into a slightly disjointed and not entirely credible pair of stories.  Without revealing too much of the plot, it can be said that Bess seems to call entirely too many of the shots against expert advice.<br />This is not to say that &quot;And Then You Die...&quot; is not an enjoyable novel; it is.  But it is not the best thriller in recent memory or even among the tops.  It is largely competent but not much more.	1998-01-21
US	52925878	R1HN0IRT67Y781	0674196376	534530979	Democracy and Distrust: A Theory of Judicial Review (Harvard Paperbacks)	Books	5	20	20	N	N	One of the great law books	Professor John Hart Ely's &quot;Democracy and Distrust&quot; is, quite simply, one of the great books about American constitutional law.  Ely's task, to come up with a cohesive and coherent theory for judicial review, is far from a simple task, and yet his writing is so smooth and easy that the task *seems* easy.  It is relatively easy to summarize Ely's general theory in few words.  He argues that the American process is essentially democratic and that the role of the courts should be to police that process.  In particular, Ely focuses on the voting-rights amendments, the First Amendment (as speech is essential to a free and open democracy), and the protection of &quot;discrete and insular minorities.&quot;<br />What is perhaps most startling about Ely's work is that, despite the fact that he comes from what may accurately be termed a liberal perspective, he rejects fundamental values as a means of making constitutional law.  This rejection is particularly surprising in that so many of the liberal constitutional advances have come in the name of fundamental values.  Yet Ely makes his case persuasively, listing and rejecting many of the possible bases for such values (from natural law to the judges' own values to consensus, e.g.).<br />&quot;Democracy and Distrust&quot; is an eminently accessible book for anyone with even a small background in constitutional law.  Though the book would probably be beyond the ken of high-school students or college undergraduates without any exposure to legal thought, certainly no degree in law is required to understand the book.  Ely aptly avoids excessive legal jargon and outlines his theory in language designed to persuade, not to impress.<br />If there is any criticism of &quot;Democracy and Distrust&quot; (and there is), it is that Ely presents his theory nearly in a vacuum.  There are most assuredly other theories of judicial review, many of which are quite different from Ely's (to the point, almost, that one suspects there mustbe more than one Constitution to produce such disparate theories).  In addition, there are clearly parts of the Constitution that are not directly concerned with democracy (the Fourth Amendment, for example, which Ely only mentions in passing), and the theory in this book cannot be comprehensive for failure to accommodate these parts of the Constitution.<br />For anyone with an interest in constitutional law, Ely should be required reading.	1998-01-17
US	52925878	R823D2NAQ2675	0879516240	287767315	The Overlook Film Encyclopedia: Horror (The Overlook Film Encyclopedia Series)	Books	5	11	11	N	N	A must-have guide to horror films	Phil Hardy's Overlook Encyclopedia of Horror is an essential part of any horror-film aficionado's library.  Though it is clear that the editors are fans of the genre, they are intelligent fans.  This book consists of a year-by-year listing of horror films from around the world.  For each film, the book provides a thorough review in which the editors freely praise or criticize the film according to its merits or the lack of merit.  The reviews are comparable in length to those of Roger Ebert though without the personal confessions and revelations.    The great strength of this tome is that it is so thorough, covering films from Japan, Italy, and other countries that one would not find even mentioned in Leonard Maltin's video guide.  The reviews, moreover, do well to identify conventions and movements within the genre and its subgenres (as in cannibal films or vampire films).  With more and more non-English-language films emerging on video, Hardy's guide may prove the only source for the discerning (or non-discerning) horror viewer.    There are two major drawbacks to this book, though.  The first is that it lacks the indices that it should have.  For example, finding a film by a particular director can be particularly frustrating.  Though Hardy includes many alternate titles, the book is not complete in this respect, and it is quite possible to find a video tape with a title that Hardy's book does not credit.  The book may have the film, but finding it can be a chore.  A director index would significantly cut search time.  The other major flaw is that the video revolution seems to be leaving Hardy behind.  Too many films are being released (largely due to the economics behind making inexpensive films with ready-made markets), and the book is by no means even close to comprehensive for films of the late '80s and '90s.  Despite these flaws, there is nothing that I have seen that comes close to comparing to the Overlook horror encyclopedia, and it is still a must-have book for the serious viewer of horror films.	1998-01-17
US	52925878	R3W50IF1EYWLI7	0802713327	793239388	The Joy of Pi	Books	4	18	20	N	N	Pi 101:  A fascinating survey of a mathematical enigma	Probably no number has so fascinated mathematicians and non-mathematicians as much as pi, that enigmatic and unnending number that begins 3.14159265.  Pi is simple to define:  it is the ratio of the circumference of any circle to the diameter.  Beyond that simple definition lies much that is fascinating, as much for the behavior of those who have studied pi as for the number itself.<br />David Blatner's &quot;The Joy of Pi&quot; presents many anecdotes about pi and its history, and these stories span from the inchoate stages of geometry to the recent, computer-assisted explorations (indeed, running through the book is a one-million-digit expansion of pi).  For the serious mathematician, &quot;The Joy of Pi&quot; probably contains little new and is too brief in the topics it does cover.  But Blatner's apparent aim is not to produce a weighty intellectual tome.  Instead, Blatner has written what might aptly be called &quot;Pi 101.&quot;  As a brief survey of one of the more fascinating mathematical enigmae, &quot;The Joy of Pi&quot; succeeds swimmingly.<br />When Stephen King, John Grisham, or Patricia Cornwell writes a new book, the audience is pre-sold.  With a book about mathematics, however, the opposite is probably true.  With math phobia (or innumeracy, as another author calls it) all too common, far too many people will pass up this breezy book for fear of being in over their heads or being bored to the point of tears.  Anyone with such a fear should do his or her best to overcome it long enough to pick up &quot;The Joy of Pi.&quot;  The result might very well be a brief glimpse at the beauty and mystery of mathematics--and some of the more interesting and amusing pieces of its history (such as the misguided attempt to legislate pi!).	1998-01-17
US	52925878	R3H8Q6L3FYJDSZ	0674639340	766290640	Only Words	Books	1	43	60	N	N	An academically unsound and very disappointing effort	[Note:  This review deals almost exclusively with the first essay.]<br />Professor Catharine A. MacKinnon is at once one of the brightest and most controversial feminist legal scholars today.  She and Andrea Dworkin were instrumental in getting anti-pornography legislation enacted or considered in several towns and cities (though the legislation adopted was later declared unconstitutional).  MacKinnon is also the person to whom the claim that all sex is rape is most often attributed (probably unfairly).  She is thus someone to whom much attention is, and should be, devoted.<br />&quot;Only Words&quot; is the sarcastic and ironic title of a collection of three essays in which MacKinnon argues passionately that pornography and sexual and racial harassment are not &quot;only words.&quot;  The operative word is &quot;passionately,&quot; for &quot;Only Words&quot; is indeed a passionate and emotional work.  MacKinnon, who has argued intelligently and with great force for a new theoretical framework (as in her &quot;Feminism Unmodified&quot;), here falls victim to her passion, producing a work that is academically unsound.  Her evidence is, at times, shoddy or even ludicrous.  For example, to support the claim that pornography causes violence, she cites a convicted murderer who said as much &quot;as only an honest perpetrator can&quot; (p. 18).  That someone as intelligent as MacKinnon would cite the words of a killer seeking to shift blame (shades of Ted Bundy) is rather astonishing and a sign that emotion has overcome intellect here.  Aside from the very real possibility that the killer was simply prevaricating, there is also the problem of a killer being able to identify cause and effect, a problem that MacKinnon overlooks.<br />Another problematic aspect of this work is MacKinnon's fervent references to and reliance on snuff films, those apocryphal films that record actual murders.  Whether such films actually exist is subject to some dispute (see, e.g., Yaron Svoray's &quot;Gods of Death&quot; for an account of the search for one).  Despite the fact that such films may not even exist, MacKinnon points to snuff films as a part of a continuum (of sorts) of pornography and rests far too much of her argument on them.  This is not to say that such films do not exist, but when an intellectual exercise relies with a blind faith on such films, it is not being honest.<br />&quot;Only Words&quot; is not the work that the anti-pornography movement deserves or should be judged by.  Nor is it MacKinnon's best work by a long shot.	1998-01-17
US	52925878	R2H81XU94JUXLO	0684814455	232148107	Gods of Death	Books	2	3	5	N	N	Searching for the &quot;snuff&quot; film	Israeli Yaron Svoray, the man who exposed Nazis in &quot;In Hitler's Shadow,&quot; this time searches for &quot;snuff&quot; films, filmed records of actual murders.  Though there is an aspect of journalism here, the book reads more like a spy novel, albeit not an especially well-written one.  Because of the thriller-esque nature of the book, saying whether Svoray actually finds a snuff film would, in a sense, give away the ending, and I will not indicate whether he is ultimately successful.<br />What I will say, however, is that the existence of actual snuff films has been a topic of much speculation.  Many view such films as &quot;urban myths,&quot; stories that many believe are true but are not.  Others, particularly anti-pornography feminists such as Catharine MacKinnon (who is mentioned in the book), seem to have an abiding faith that such films really do exist.  The existence of actual snuff films would do much to support the sex-violence link of pornography and to support the arguments of many feminists.  But the issue is not of concern merely to feminists; certainly any rational person should be disgusted if snuff films do exist.<br />&quot;Gods of Death&quot; is Svoray's search for such a film, and it is a search that nearly costs his life and finances.  Svoray recounts accurately (one presumes) the many dead ends and false leads he encountered, and therein lies part of the problem with the book.  From the very first word of the book, there is one overriding question:  Did he find an actual snuff film?  The answer can be summarized in a single word (either yes or no), but the answer is a long way off.  The book, therefore, reads like a frustrating tease.  No doubt Svoray felt that way himself throughout the process, but it bears mention to note that part of the art of journalism is sifting out the extraneous details.  The story, therefore, becomes less about the existence of such films and more about an obsessive search for them.<br />One thing that the bookdoes make clear is that if such films exist, they are indeed very hard to find.  To this extent, Svoray at least implicitly discounts much of the urban myth in that the extraordinary lengths to which he went indicate that the average person would not be able to find an actual snuff film.	1998-01-17
US	52925878	R173CFWV8QINM2	0446404225	759819726	False Pretenses	Books	5	2	3	N	N	A hard-boiled winner	Reporter turned private detective Jacob Asch agrees to meet a man on short notice--anything to take Asch from the ennui of tracking down elderly people for conservatorship actions.  The man says he suspects his wife of being unfaithful, and Asch takes the case.  After a fruitless day of following the woman, Asch returns to his office to find his client murdered.  Asch is further confused when the man turns out not to be who he claimed to be.  The police are not confused, though.  Asch is promptly jailed.<br />When the police verify Asch's whereabouts during the day, they finally release Asch, who vows to solve the mystery of the murdered client.  When each lead seems to leave to a corpse, Asch finds himself involved in an even larger mystery and a growing cast of suspects.  He finds himself growing increasingly suspicious as he falls into the arms of a gorgeous blonde homicide detective.  But can he trust her, her alcoholic partner, the self-centered reporter who did the story on police corruption, the widow of a slain cop, the mechanic who dabbles as a pimp, or any of the other people in the story?<br />&quot;False Pretenses&quot; is a hard-boiled detective story for the '90s, true to the genre's pioneers without being an anachronism.  Jacob Asch may not be Sam Spade, but he is not too far removed.  The result is a very enjoyable novel.	1998-01-17
US	52925878	RC9KJJC92WOEQ	0312130570	361506270	Ed Gein -- Psycho!	Books	2	19	21	N	N	An uncomfortable homage	Ed Gein was a man who went from grave robbing to murder and whose exploits shocked the town of Plainfield, Wisconsin, in the 1950s.  His crimes inspired several films, including to one degree or another &quot;Psycho,&quot; &quot;The Texas Chain Saw Massacre,&quot; &quot;Deranged&quot; (1974), &quot;Three on a Meathook,&quot; and &quot;The Silence of the Lambs.&quot;  Unlike latter-day serial killer Ted Bundy, Gein was hardly a charismatic figure, and yet he has inspired a cottage industry that includes a fan club.  Paul Anthony Woods's book skirts a very uncomfortable line between documenting the crimes and exploiting them.<br /> &quot;Ed Gein--Psycho!&quot; does document the crimes Gein, though much of the material is apocryphal, but the book is as much a study of the fascination with and even worship of Gein.  A significant portion of the book is devoted to the films mentioned above and to the merchandise that seeks to capitalize on the Gein notoriety.  Unfortunately, what could be an insightful sociological study is instead a rather insipid and sometimes uncomfortably close to admiring look at the killer and the phenomenon that is the interest in him.  For readers who are squeamish, the full-page photo of the eviscerated body of one of Gein's victims should be most uncomfortable.  Even for those who are not so squeamish, it becomes necessary to question the degree to which this book further exploits the victims while canonizing their killer.	1998-01-16
US	52925878	R2YNQXQ32K1AAM	186448165X	808722638	Exam Scams: Best Cheating Stories and Excuses from Around the World	Books	3	3	4	N	Y	A blue print, whether for cheaters or those who catch them	John Croucher has collected in &quot;Exam Scams&quot; an incredible wealth of cheating techniques, some successful and some not.  A book such as this always raises a certain dilemma.  On the one hand, dishonest students could use this book as a blueprint toward ill-gotten grades.  On the other hand, teachers could use it as a means of dissuading or detecting such conduct. <br />&quot;Exam Scams&quot; is little more than a collection of paragraphs detailing various attempts to circumvent exams.  In this sense, the book is extremely &quot;readable&quot; as something one can pick up and put down repeatedly, digesting a page or two at a time.  As simple reading material, though, &quot;Exam Scams&quot; is somewhat lackluster.  Some of the stories are particularly amusing, but many more are simply the sort of thing that elicits at most a polite chuckle or a &quot;hmmm.&quot;  A final concern is that it is difficult to know just how much of the book is true.  While Croucher generally provides dates and locations, one suspects that verifying the claims might be rather difficult.  Perhaps, though, it really does not matter for this particular book whether the stories are true or minor urban myths.	1998-01-16
US	52925878	R25E26UALOHOSQ	0345370759	424518078	All the Great Pretenders	Books	4	6	7	N	N	Murder, psychics, and Brother B. in Jesus Creek	Kate Yancy works at her brother's inn taking care of all the duties that her brother, the sometimes mayor and sometimes hotelier, can't be bothered to do.  And &quot;bothered&quot; is just he word to describe how Kate feels about the events in her life.  Not least of these events is the swarm of reporters that has descended upon the town of Jesus Creek to cover the disappearance of a mentally unstable rich girl.  The girl checked into Kate's hotel one night and soon disappeared from her locked room.  When the girl's parents hire a psychic to help them, the local religious figure, Brother B., runs around talking about the dangers of dealing with demons.  After a sance, the psychic announces that he knows where the body will be found.  To give away any more of the plot would be to give away too much of the story, but I can say safely that before all is said and done, very few people will turn out to be what they seemed, and murder will be done.  Author Deborah Adams handles herself quite adeptly in her first outing, though it should be said that the ending is a too abrupt.  Her characters are well-drawn and engaging, and she does a wonderful job of sharing the town with us.  For mystery readers who like their mysteries cozy, &quot;All the Great Pretenders&quot; is recommended reading.	1998-01-15
US	52925878	R34UMMR5D4N2CD	0226675645	482155961	A Guide to America's Sex Laws	Books	3	16	17	N	N	Complete statutory guide without case law	Judge Richard Posner of the Seventh Circuit Court of Appeals and Professor Katharine Silbaugh of Boston University's law school undertaken an impressive task, and they have done half the job very well.  &quot;A Guide to America's Sex Laws&quot; is an exhaustive survey of the existing statutes from all fifty states (and the federal government where applicable) for crimes from rape to sodomy to necrophilia.  A single volume containing every statute is indeed a valuable resource, but there is a serious problem.  Statutes require judicial interpretation, and this book provides very little explanation toward that end.  Though each chapter (devoted to a particular offense) includes a brief, survey introduction, the introductions do not provide much help for a reader seeking to know, for example, how Montana courts have interpreted the phrase &quot;deviate sexual relations.&quot;  As a reference, &quot;A Guide to America's Sex Laws&quot; serves as a good starting point, but the serious researcher will have to use other sources to supplement this text.	1998-01-14
US	52925878	RHKIC6JI4V9PF	0804112517	856261658	Pushing Murder	Books	2	4	5	N	N	A charming character mired in a poor story	Clara Gamadge, grandmother and sleuth, wakes up a week before Christmas in a hospital bed, the victim of an aresenic-tainted *hors d'oeuvre* and a fall when the poison took affect.  She had been at the grand opening of a bookstore owned by her friend and her friend's new husband.  Initially, Clara believes that she was merely an accidental and unintended victim, for she can think of nobody who would wish her dead.  But a second attempt on her life soon convinces her otherwise.  Constrained to her hospital room, which soon becomes one of the busiest places in New York, Clara soon learns the identity of the killer.  Proving it, though, will be the problem, and there are others in danger.  &quot;Pushing Murder&quot; is an enjoyable story, though it is not much of a mystery since the who and the how are not long in issue.  Author Eleanor Boylan's writing style is certainly engaging, and the character of Clara Gamadge, especially during her medicine-induced fogs, is a thoroughly entertaining one.  Sadly, though, the story is fatally flawed in two ways.  The characters go through a great deal of effort to avoid telling the police anything, but it seems extraordinarily unlikely that a woman admitted to the hospital with arsenic poisoning would not come to the attention of the police to begin with.  Further, the entire motive for the actions of both Clara and the killer is the gathering of evidence.  And yet they seriously misunderstand the law.  I cannot say more without giving away too much of the plot, but suffice it to say that the entire story depends on the characters overlooking a fundamental point about public records.  In this sense, &quot;Pushing Murder&quot; shares much in common with Grisham's &quot;The Client.&quot;  Had anybody had the sense immediately to make a phone call in the beginning, the story would have ended after only forty or fifty pages.  Despite these serious plot holes, though, Boylan's writing style makes the story not only readable but enjoyable.	1998-01-11
US	52925878	R226EWUJI4UWQI	0312015186	532399871	Termination Interview	Books	4	12	12	N	N	Don't judge a book by its cover; read this book	Ingrid Hunter is a photographer, a novice student of the martial arts, and a temp word processor.  Miranda Falk, a high-school classmate of Ingrid's, has a much more enigmatic and sordid background.  When Ingrid takes a job word processing at a law firm, she is surprised to learn that her old classmate works there.  On Ingrid's first day, Miranda manages to schedule a lunch for them.  The rest of the time, Miranda spends giving &quot;termination interviews&quot;--she fires people--or taunting nervous employees with her power.  At lunch, Miranda makes Ingrid an offer she can't refuse but doesn't spell out just what the offer is.  Before Ingrid can learn the details, Miranda plummets to her death from her office window.  There is no question who wanted Miranda dead, for nearly everyone did.  But who did it?  Was it the elderly head of the firm?  His playboy son?  Ingrid's ex-con ex-husband?  One of the workers Miranda fired?  While the police seem content with the idea of a suicide (and there was a note), Ingrid is not so content.  When her apartment goes up in flames and threats to her safety are made, Ingrid realizes she must get to the bottom of everything.  &quot;Termination Interview&quot; is the first novel from Lynne Murray (&quot;Larger Than Death&quot;).  Ms. Murray handles her initial effort adeptly, giving us a strong central character and a mystery that is anything but obvious.  Sadly, the publishers chose to adorn the book with a cover that almost repels the reader.  However, if one can follow the adage &quot;Don't judge a book by its cover,&quot; the reader will be well rewarded.	1998-01-10
US	52925878	RYUUL9H6VIWU9	0451403770	974090209	The January Corpse (Dave Garrett Mystery)	Books	4	5	5	N	N	A fascinating character and a remarkable twist ending	How do you prove a man is dead when his bullet-ridden car is discovered but his body is not?  In Pennsylvania, you wait seven years and hope you hear nothing.  But it is embarrassing if a judge finds that a man is dead after seven years only to have him pop up during the eighth.  So a law firm seeking to prove that the man who owned the car is in fact dead hires lawyer-turned-investigator Dave Garrett to see what he can find out over the weekend.         The case promises to be anything but ordinary when Garrett learns that the law firm turned to him after one of the more prestigious investigative firms dropped the case.  Clearly, the forces at play must be pretty powerful, and it does not take long for Garrett to realize some of the forces he's up against.         In Dave Garrett, author Neil Albert gives us a protagonist who is both intelligent and resourceful.  But &quot;The January Corpse,&quot; a thoroughly enjoyable mystery throughout, cannot truly be appreciated until the ending, which is reminiscent of Christie's &quot;The Murder of Roger Akroyd&quot; for the twist that Albert provides.  Only after the mystery pays off can we truly appreciate Garrett for the complex character he is.  Initially, for example, we learn that he was disbarred.  Later, though, we realize why and can appreciate him all the more for it.  But his reaction to the twist ending truly indicates what a wonderful character he is.         &quot;The January Corpse&quot; provides an excellent test for those who believe they can solve any mystery where the author plays fair.  Albert does play fair, but few readers will be alert enough to pick up all the clues to arrive at *precisely* the right answer.  (A large part of the answer is rather obvious, but that by no means diminishes the story.)  For those who prefer their mysteries to be rich in character, &quot;The January Corpse&quot; is a wonderful ride and will no doubt send the reader looking for the next in the series, &quot;The February Trouble.&quot;	1998-01-09
US	52925878	RK4U8IKEIMR28	0517706652	308314483	A Story of Scorpions	Books	4	1	2	N	N	A gripping tale of revenge, religion, and loss	Alex Leonard is in jail for the rape of a minister's wife and the murder of her and her son.  Alson Pierce, the minister who has lost his entire family to Leonard, then begins a campaign to &quot;love&quot; his enemy.  Pierce applies to prison authorities and the captured killer to get permission to serve Leonard in whatever capacity they will permit him.  But beneath Pierce's facade of the ultimate Christian is a much darker plan, for he seeks not love but revenge.         That, briefly, is the story of the first installment of the Beaumont Trilogy by Gabriel Everett.  &quot;A Story of Scorpions,&quot; though, is so much more than a simple tale of planned revenge.  It is the story of a man who has lost everything he cares for--his religion and his family--and who seems to have nothing to live for aside from his planned revenge.  Increasingly, however, he finds that his fate is tied for better or worse to that of his enemy, and this realization presents the central issue of the story.         Through nearly 300 pages, Everett takes the reader to the depths of Pierce's despair and to the heights of hope.  One of the most impressive aspects of the story is the way in which Everett manages to engage the reader's emotions and to provide an ending that is eminently satisfying.  By &quot;satisfying,&quot; I mean to imply neither that Pierce carries out his plan nor that he does not.  What I mean instead is that the ending brings closure to much of the story without once verging on the hackneyed.  Though &quot;A Story of Scorpions&quot; starts slowly, it soon settles into a very fulfilling psychological study of a man, his grief, his enemy, and the people around him.	1998-01-09
US	52925878	R34X2HJF1D1H86	0879234059	51961159	Crime And Puzzlement: 24 Solve-them-yourself Picture Mysteries (Bk.1)	Books	3	10	11	N	N	Good fun for teenagers	Lawrence Treat presents 23 (not 24 as the book's cover claims) pictures of crime scenes and invites the reader to solve the crimes.  To aid the reader, Treat presents lists of questions that more often than not make the solution obvious.  Still, the book represents an hour or two worth of mental exercise, and the reader is of course under no obligation to read the questions that may telegraph the solutions.  For an inquisitive and mentally-active teenager, this book might be a great deal of fun.  The most significant criticism of the book is that in a few cases, Treat relies on probabilities that are not close enough to certainties.  In other words, at times the solution depends upon one or two educated guesses that could very well be wrong.  However, as an exercise in deductive thinking, reading the book should provide a young adult with an afternoon well spent.  (The twenty-fourth puzzle is not a crime to be solved but instead a pair of pictures in which the reader is to find the differences between the two.)	1998-01-09
US	52925878	R2UWS2TFZRV89E	0836210352	915353727	Reel Justice: The Courtroom Goes to the Movies	Books	4	5	6	N	N	What is the law really?	Few can escape an active filmgoing life without a twisted view of the law.  For as many accurate depictions of courtroom behavior as there are in films, there must be dozens that are not even close.  Objections that are baseless and would be laughed out of a real court are routinely sustained in films, for example, while thoroughly objectionable conduct, such as attorneys routinely arguing rather than questioning during examinations, goes unchallenged.         Law professors Michael Asimow and Paul Bergman have taken their legal skills and their love of films and combined them in what is a relatively unique film and video guide.  While they do adopt the trappings of more familiar video guides (such as rating films on a scale up to four gavels), they provide far more considered reviews than one is likely to find in any other guide (with the notable exception of Roger Ebert's).  Both authors are professors at the UCLA School of Law, and they use their considerable contacts at the school to the greatest possible advantage, drawing on the years of learning of nationwide experts in various fields of law.         &quot;Reel Justice&quot; is both a celebration of the filmed courtroom battle and an examination of the law underlying the films.  All too often, the authors expose the legal lunacy in films, pointing out just how egregiously in error the film is.  Where a film is correct, they dutifully point that out, too.  Though there may be spots in which the layperson finds the going tough, &quot;Reel Justice&quot; is generally accessible to those without a J.D., and it demystifies the legal system that Hollywood strives so valiently to mystify.  Probably, though, the best use for the book is after one sees the movie.  (Indeed, the authors pull no punches and reveal many endings, though always with a warning to the reader.)         In a time when actual courtroom dramas are more accessible to the general public, whether through the televised criminal trial of O.J. Simpson or through Court TV, a station devoted almost exclusively to televising trials, &quot;Reel Justice&quot; can be a valuable tool for helping a reader separate fact from fantasy.  The most serious limitation of &quot;Reel Justice&quot; is that it covers so few films.  The depth of the reviews, however, necessitates such a limited selection.  Moreover, the rating system serves as an excellent means of seeking out the truly sublime films out there (though there are a few that are not readily available on video).	1998-01-09
US	52925878	R3AUHJN4JTQZKH	0786004800	992322112	Bad Karma	Books	1	26	33	N	N	A hackneyed story written badly	Though the reviews already provided by readers suggest that &quot;Bad Karma&quot; is an unqualified success, it is mediocre at best.  The essential story--a stalker and the stalked--is thoroughly familiar, and Harper (a.k.a. Douglas Clegg) does nothing to raise it from the mundane.  The problem with &quot;Bad Karma,&quot; aside from a familiar story that does not need retelling, is that it's so horribly written.  Harper's style is lazy and annoying.  While many a writer uses sentence fragments to punctuate the odd paragraph here and there, Harper seems allergic to verbs.  (Chapter 19 has only a single verb, for example!)  It is conceivable that in the hands of a more accomplished writer, such deviations from proper English might seem conversational or even hasten the story along.  Here, though, they grate.  Beyond the abysmal writing, though, the story is just far too improbable and silly to make anyone care much.  For example, the hero of the story, Dr. Trey Campbell, somehow has the ability to identify the *breathing* of one of his patients over the phone.  The villainess is a woman strapped to a bed so long and so firmly that she develops bedsores.  Despite this confinement, though, she is able to escape and amass a body count that defies credibility.  Apparently, the woman, who is just barely five feet tall, is in such remarkable physical condition that she, unlike any other human, can be strapped to a bed long enough for bed sores to develop but not long enough that any of her muscles atrophy.  The ending of the novel is thoroughly predictable, and none of the characters seems to learn a thing from the experience.  Readers who refuse to check their intelligence at the door are advised to look elsewhere.	1998-01-09
US	52925878	R2ZGKHAL9SZH3R	0671657860	882252700	Many Lives, Many Masters: The True Story of a Prominent Psychiatrist, His Young Patient, and the Past-Life Therapy That Changed Both Their Lives	Books	1	25	37	N	N	Absolute silliness	Author and psychotherapist Brian Weiss describes in this book a series of sessions with one particular patient.  During the sessions, many of which involved hypnosis, Weiss's patient allegedly recounts many past-life experience that account for the phobias that led her to Weiss in the first place.  In addition, she (the patient) serves as a medium or conduit to allow &quot;The Masters&quot; to speak to the doctor.  &quot;The Masters,&quot; it seems are extraordinarily wise beings on a higher plane who share their wisdom with the doctor.  Throughout the book, Weiss repeatedly assures us that he is a scientist and was skeptical throughout, yet no trace of any serious skepticism shows up.  In fact, the &quot;evidence&quot; on which he relies is both contradictory and easily faked.  For example, the patient purportedly develops psychic powers and picks every winner at a race track.  As evidence, she produces all the winning tickets.  Had she been intent on fooling him, she could have, for a modest cash outlay, simply placed a bet on every horse in every race and kept only the winning stubs.  Alternatively, she could have picked up discarded winning tickets after they had been paid.  Allegedly, she donated her winnings to charity.  &quot;Many Lives, Many Masters&quot; is a farce that any moderately alert reader should see through in an instant.  The evidence Weiss offers in support of his claims does little to verify them and much to discredit them, and the logic is both circular and broken.  Perhaps this book should be, as another reader suggests, required reading, but only to demonstrate how gullible an author can be.  One very strong *caveat* is in order for anybody who has lost a loved one after a coma:  It will not come as pleasant news to hear that the loved one _chose_ to leave you (alleged wisdom from &quot;The Masters&quot;).	1998-01-09
US	52925878	RPR70W6EESQRY	1557831572	15715601	The Reduced Shakespeare Co. presentsThe Compleat Works of Wllm Shkspr (abridged)	Books	5	3	4	N	N	A masterpiece of comedy	For anyone seeking complete exposure to the works of Shakespeare, there can be only one source of material, and the Reduced Shakespeare Company is not that source.  For anyone seeking to laugh until it hurts, the Reduced Shakespeare Company is _precisely_ the ticket.  Condensing all of Shakespeare (including the sonnets) to about 150 pages may seem an impossible task, but the authors succeed admirably, though one might question some of the scholarship along the way.  Still, dispensing of &quot;King Lear&quot; in only a few lines during the course of a football game is a daunting task, and picking fault with the authors for failing to mention that he had three daughters seems to be nit-picking.  And it's not as if the authors fail to dispell some of the myths that have permeated Shakespearean scholarship.  As they aptly demonstrate, Othello was not &quot;a place where you tie up boats.&quot;<br />The book is really a script for the RSC show, and while the show loses some of its hilarity in the book, the latter compensates by including all sorts of wonderfully funny footnotes.  If you can't get out to see the &quot;Compleat Works&quot; live, do the next best thing and buy the book.  Where else will you have the opportunity to read &quot;Othello&quot; as a rap song?	1997-11-11
US	52925878	R3OQ4K1PLMZLIA	0786002840	612561050	Mortal Remains: An Adam McCleet Mystery	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Great fun; so-so mystery	Any judgment of a book based solely on the cover may be inherently problematic, but in this case, the judgment probably works well.  The cover features a smiling face with a bullet hole through the forehead.  In other words, there's violence, but it's hard to take it all too seriously.  &quot;Mortal Remains&quot; does have a body count (more than one and less than that of Friday the 13th IV), but it is the humor and the bizarre characters that really carry the book.  And therein lies the book's main flaw.  &quot;Mortal Remains&quot; is part of the mystery genre and somewhat in the style of Crais and Hiaasen.  But the mystery does not work as well as it might.  There are, unfortunately, too many loose ends to the mystery.<br />Hanson is a very funny writer, though, and some of the humor is so funny that I was laughing aloud--something I seldom do at only the written word.  The cast of characters, most of whom are connected to a psychiatric institute, are indeed colorful, and they make the read an easy one.  The &quot;death squad,&quot; a triumvirate of patients, is particularly amusing, though they may not be entirely P.C.  Also along for the ride are a man who carves pneumatic statues of his grandmother out of trees and a high-school baton twirler.<br />The plot and the mystery involve the death of a doctor at a psychiatric hospital.  Former Marine and former cop Adam McCleet seeks to solve the mystery because of his ties to the dead doctor.  There's no doubt who killed the doctor, but there is a question about who caused the death.  When other crimes, including arson and murder, follow, McCleet finds his life and those of people close to him in danger.  Throughout the investigation, McCleet must deal with his possible fear of commitment, his post-traumatic stress disorder, one angry pickup driver, and his own possible artwork for the town.	1997-11-10
US	52925878	R2FNEY2Q7DFXBG	1880741253	710072567	The Bill of Rights: What It Is, What It Means, and How It's Been Misused	Books	1	15	18	N	N	Accuracy rating = 0; Cult/humor rating = 10	The introduction's first paragraph contains the first sign of trouble:  &quot;Remember learning about . . . the Bill of Rights?  Me neither.&quot;  And then the book goes downhill less gracefully than the &quot;agony of defeat&quot; skier from ABC's &quot;Wide World of Sports.&quot;  Documenting the errors in the book would require a tome of greater length than Ms. Fallon's lean effort, but some of the mistakes must be pointed out lest the reader think this review too harsh.  Of the Fourth Amendment, Ms. Fallon writes:  &quot;It is unconstitutional for anyone . . . to search and/or seize an individual's body or private property, unless a specific, court-approved search warrant is presented&quot; (p. 34).  Initially, the idea that the Fourth Amendment restricts the acts of private individuals is farcical.  Beyond that, the Supreme Court has been quite clear that warrants are not required in all searches or seizures.  Ms. Fallon incorrectly states that the Fifth Amendment prohibits criminal trials without a grand-jury indictment.  In truth, that prohibition applies only to the federal government, a fact that seems to have escaped the author.  She believes that the phrase &quot;just compensation&quot; in the takings clause of the Fifth Amendment requires the government to &quot;justify when they confiscate someone's property&quot; (p. 39) in addition to paying for it.  It would be innacurate to state that the book is completely wrong--though not by much.  The misguided author completely misconstrues two of the amendments.  Of the Second Amendment's &quot;right to bear arms,&quot; she writes:  &quot;The Second Amendment is perhaps the most important amendment. First of all, it entitles the American people to an army, navy, and marines. . .&quot; (p. 25).  Had she bothered to check the body of the Constitution itself, Ms. Fallon might have been quite suprised to learn that the power to maintain an army is in fact found there.  The Seventh Amendment provides for the right to a jury trial in certain *civil* cases.  Ms. Fallon, however, comes up with the novel proposition that this amendment instead prevents criminal prosecutions in certain cases:  &quot;If, for example, you steal something that amounts to a value of less than twenty dollars, then not much can be done to prosecute you in a court of law&quot; (p. 49).  She also concludes that &quot;[a]nything less [than $20] is handled outside of court.&quot; There comes a point when the sentient reader passes from disbelief at the words s/he is reading to a sense of uncontrolled hilarity. In discussing the first ten amendments to the Constitution, Ms. Fallon cites not a single case, despite the fact that the interpretation of the Bill of Rights comes to us through cases.  Apparently determined not to become mired down in facts, Ms. Fallon has produced perhaps the funniest book since Douglas Adams's &quot;Hitch Hiker&quot; series.  Though the title suggests this book about the Bill of Rights will tell us &quot;What It Is,&quot; what we get instead are the incoherent, naive, and extraordinarily incorrect guesses of a complete legal novice (for lack of a word indicating less experience and knowledge).to a jury trial in certain *civil* cases.  Ms. Fallon, however, comes up with the novel proposition that this amendment instead prevents criminal prosecutions in certain cases:  &quot;If, for example, you steal something that amounts to a value of less than twenty dollars, then not much can be done to prosecute you in a court of law&quot; (p. 49).  She also concludes that &quot;[a]nything less [than $20] is handled outside of court.&quot; There comes a point when the sentient reader passes from disbelief at the words s/he is reading to a sense of uncontrolled hilarity. In discussing the first ten amendments to the Constitution, Ms. Fallon cites not a single case, despite the fact that the interpretation of the Bill of Rights comes to us through cases.  Apparently determined not to become mired down in facts, Ms. Fallon has produced perhaps the funniest book since Douglas Adams's &quot;Hitch Hiker&quot; series.  Though the title suggests this book about the Bill of Rights will tell us &quot;What It Is,&quot; what we get instead are the incoherent, naive, and extraordinarily incorrect guesses of a complete legal novice (for lack of a word indicating less experience and knowledge).	1997-11-01
US	52925878	R2WOS2QFW07KHQ	0060952520	225587361	The Simpsons: A Complete Guide to Our Favorite Family	Books	5	1	1	N	N	The ultimate guide for the discerning Simpsons viewer	For any serious fan of The Simpsons, the book is not recommended--it is mandatory.  The book includes information on every episode prior to its publication.  The book contains all the boring stuff (date of airing, episode number, e.g.), but the true value of the book is in the many features for each story and the exhaustive indeces.  Here you'll find Barts many blackboard writings (&quot;I will not belch the national anthem,&quot; e.g.), a list of the episodes in which Homer says &quot;D'oh,&quot; Patty's brand of cigarettes (Lady Laramie 100's), and so much more.  My two favorite features are &quot;Stuff you may have missed,&quot; which lists a variety of subtle elements (such as Bart spelling &quot;eat my shorts&quot; in the answer spaces of a history test), and an exhaustive list of all the voices behind the characters.  Quite simply, any fan of the show must own this book.	1997-10-25
US	52925878	R24MMVZMEGETG6	0314029761	765110692	Torts, Cases and Materials on (American casebook series)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Torts according to case law not language	Professor Grady's casebook is intended for law students, but the approach he takes is strikingly different from that of other casebooks.  Professor Grady believes that appellate cases have two salient aspects:  facts and holding.  Thus, he edits the judges' opinions mercilessly, often reducing a multi-page case to a few lines. For the most part, doctrinal matters are not the focus of the book.  Prof. Grady's approach is not to have students learn the application of &quot;danger invites rescue&quot; but to predict how a case will turn out.  The theory is that the case law is, essentially axiomatically, consistent or discarded and that by knowing enough cases, one can predict the outcome of fact patterns. All of the important cases (_Palsgraf_, e.g.) are included, but Prof. Grady has a fondness for bizarre cases, and the book includes a large number of cases with bizarre fact patterns (the little boy who put newspaper down another boy's pants and set fire to the paper, e.g., or the circus horse that evacuated itself on a spectator). One obvious omission from the casebook is the area of defamation (including slander and libel).  Overall, though, the casebook presents a wealth of cases, and the reader can predict case results with great accuracy.  Topics covered include:  strict liability, negligence, *res ipsa loquitur*, intentional torts, and negligent infliction of emotional distress.	1997-10-21
