US	52921362	R2VKXBXXL8C8XY	0743243897	903465736	Cuba Strait: A Novel	Books	5	4	5	N	Y	Rocket ride!	Stroud just goes from strength to strength; each stand-alone book (in itself a refreshing change from series writers) has its own particular merits. Cuba Straits has some of the most gripping scenes--most notably an underwater rescue that is absolutely rivetting--I've read in quite some time. With a labyrinthine plot and terrifically well-conceived characters, this is pure entertainment. Some of the writing/observations/remarks are laugh-out-loud hilarious, providing a nice balance to non-stop action and legions of scary bad guys. For sheer descriptive and narrative power, Stroud is hard to beat. There are wonderful at-sea adventures that are powerfully compelling--with the forces of nature outranking the bad guys in their fearful potency. Add a cat with attitude, a fully fleshed, entirely believable female and a pair of essentially decent men doing their best in bewilderingly dangerous situations and you've got one breathtaking ride. While the denouement is a tad unbelievable, the author manages to capture some essentially American-male attitudes and behaviors that are faithful to the storyline. This is first-rate writing in a hugely entertaining book.<BR>Highly recommended.	2003-05-03
US	52921362	R372B1OA3LPY6S	0385336195	912945855	The Best Revenge	Books	5	2	5	N	Y	White scores again!	The Best Revenge has one of the most devious plots I've ever read. Author White skillfully leads the reader along, allowing us to form opinions about the central characters. Then he blows those opinions to smithereens as he deftly doles out more and more telling details. Few writers have the insight and the talent (not to mention the psychological training) to offer images that seem, on the surface, to be one thing, but in fact have immense underpinnings of subtext. Again, hero Alan Gregory plays a supporting role, allowing the other characters (including the always entertaining cop Sam Purdy) to take center stage. The premise is truly clever; the delivery is superb. And the payoff is completely unexpected. One of the reasons this series works as well as it does is White's positioning of his hero--sometimes in the forefront, sometimes on the periphery. It keeps the books fresh, the plotting unique, and the narrative line as taut as a fishing line with its hook in the mouth of a seriously big fish--with all the tension implicit in the effort to land that big one. I particularly liked the ending which is rooted in a reality we might prefer was otherwise but is completely viable. Splendidly drawn characters and breathless pacing, the book is hugely entertaining.<BR>Highly recommended.	2003-04-29
US	52921362	R2DX736GCANAHT	0743456386	651363314	The White Road	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Gripping	This fourth in the Charlie Parker series has all the evil characters we've come to expect from a Parker outing, as well as an enormous amount of historical (both real and fictional) background on racial abuses in the south. While the writing is lyrical and the characters are fully fleshed, The White Road doesn't have quite the power of the previous books. The plot hinges on a motive (which I will not give away) that didn't ring true or believable to me for bringing Parker into the case of Atys Jones's forthcoming murder trial. There's plenty of activity in swampy settings; Louis and Angel come to the forefront this time out. And there's enough torture, gore, murder and mayhem to satisfy readers who've come to expect a thoroughly disturbing adventure from Connolly. The glue that is intended to hold the plot together is a little thin, leaving cracks and gaps in the whole. Entertaining but not quite up to the very high standard the author has set with his previous books.	2003-04-25
US	52921362	R3SSJSNGBIOL41	0816640068	433043544	Harmful To Minors: The Perils Of Protecting Children From Sex	Books	5	26	37	N	Y	Intelligent and important	Oh, the uproar that accompanied the publication of this book! There was enough ignorant fuel piled on the fire of indignation to heat a good-sized city for a long, cold winter. In reality, this is a thoughtful, well-researched book that debunks a lot of popular mythology--about child abuse (and the recovered/repressed memory fad-hysteria), about who might or might not be a pedophile, and about the horrifying overreaction of those in the social services sector who \\"protected\\" children, in some cases, literally to death. As a society, panic rises to the top like cream whenever the words \\"sex\\" and \\"children\\" are placed in close proximity. It would be a good thing if all professionals who come into contact with children were to read this book. It would help, too, if most parents would take the time to sit with Harmful to Minors. Alas, not enough people will make the effort to educate themselves in order to deal more effectively not only with their children but also with their own societally induced preconceived notions.<BR>Highly recommended.	2003-04-17
US	52921362	R255J6LR7BFDSR	0786711639	940420744	City of Strangers: A Jack Liffey Mystery (Otto Penzler Books)	Books	5	4	4	N	Y	Life as usual in Apocalypse Central	What is notable about John Shannon's Jack Liffey series is the author's depth of feeling and respect for young people. What is also of signal importance is the author's talent for creating thoroughly believable characters--even the villains. Take, for example, the fat man so immense that he requires two chairs to accommodate his width. In anyone else's hands, this creature would be a blob of amorphous evil--intent purely on doing his motiveless bad deeds. But with Shannon at the helm, we're presented with a history that makes the character so real that his behavior is genuinely shocking because we don't want to think that someone thoughtful and articulate can, given his intimate first-hand acquaintanceship with pain, proceed to inflict that same pain (literally) on someone else. Yet he does. And it feels very real; the reader shares Liffey's injuries--both physical and psychic. The same skill is at work in defining the young people in City of Strangers, especially the exquisitely drawn Fariborz who is a living, breathing portrait of internal conflict--a good soul on a crusade to awaken people to the wrongness all around them. <br />As always, when Liffey ultimately makes contact with the young people he's been hired to find, there are deeply thoughtful exchanges. Never condescending, never patronizing, always self-deprecating, yet always sensitive to their struggles--whether real or imagined--Liffey enters into their lives offering his battered heart and body as support for their sorrows. No one I've read has such a profound grasp on the issues that are central to the lives of youngsters approaching the treacherous border of adulthood. Liffey is a good man whose empathy is a poultice for the injured young, drawing out their pain and taking it into himself--like the archetypal sin eater.<br />Then, gleefully, there are the apocalyptic views that are sprinkled throughout every Liffey adventure. This time out, sadly, there are no little rat-like dogs to be hated. But there is a billboard advertising Drive-Through Hi-Colonics. Relief Without Waiting. (Hilarious!) And there are a couple of bemasked individuals on the street, holding up a banner that says, \\"Open Up Area 51, Display the Alien Remains.\\"<br />Finally, happily, Jack has connected with the redoubtable Miss Rebecca Plumkill. And there are bits of a shredded foam pillow littering the bedroom. Now how, we have to wonder with amusement, did that happen? And aren't we glad that some warm light has managed to filter through the gloom of Jack's sorrows!<BR>My highest recommendation.	2003-04-17
US	52921362	RLTVXE8QQEMXB	0345445910	963983439	Into the Inferno	Books	5	4	5	N	Y	Emerson strikes again!	I am always impressed by Emerson's talent, and I wonder after each new book when he finds the time to write--given his full-time job as a firefighter. But it's his first-hand experience as a firefighter that informs the best of his work and Into the Inferno is no exception. With fully drawn, exceptionally well-conceived characters, Emerson takes us along on a death trip with deeply conflicted womanizer Jim Swope. While Swope's view of himself is not a pleasant one, the reader cannot help but like this fellow because he's just so utterly likeable--particularly in his interaction with his two daughters. Given that I picked out the villain of the piece right away, it's a testament to Emerson's narrative gift that I stuck with the story, waiting for Swope's \\"aha!\\" moment. And it's delivered very well. There's so much action that there's scarcely breathing room--either for the characters or for the reader. There are also some very profound observations on life and what is, and isn't, valuable. Yet these observations are delivered within the context of the character and ring very true. For sheer entertainment value, Emerson's hard to beat.<BR>Highly recommended.	2003-04-10
US	52921362	R1V11SJ6UWWV4N	0743222008	177045780	The Vanished Man: A Lincoln Rhyme Novel (Deaver, Jeffery)	Books	3	7	8	N	Y	Creaky	There is a not unfounded thesis in publishing that authors work hardest before they hit the big time. Once they \\"arrive,\\" their work often becomes formulaic, or tired, or somehow mechanical. In this case while not formulaic, The Vanished Man suffers from overexplaining (as if people are unaware of CSI, Cold Case Files and sundry other shows that have versed the general public in most of the terms Deaver goes to great lengths to explain), from a wandering, somewhat pointless plot, and from a lack of authorial passion for the characters.<br />While the first two Lincoln Rhyme books were among the best books going, Deaver's subsequent efforts have failed to meet the standards set by The Bone Collector. Rhyme has become perilously close to a stereotype of the original character, as has his love interest, Amelia Sachs. There are also some peculiar references, the most notable being a character's jesting about Victoria's Secret ads in the New York Times. Well, no, not ever. Even as a joke this doesn't fly because that company does not advertise in the Times. (Not their target audience for lingerie.) There's an embarrassingly twee section about the \\"yanno room\\" which is purported to be what a twelve-year-old girl calls the home music room. As if a girl that age in Manhattan would be that childish! Here's a minor character who would be far more believable as a seven-year-old. It's one false note among many in this book.<br />There are lines of prose that have no meaning in real terms and it's surprising that Deaver's editor wasn't more on top of things. \\"Perhaps the best you can hope for now is simply to pray.\\" Nope. Gotta hope for something. Finally, most annoyingly, Rhyme's pattern of speech has undergone a change that is out of character--Rhyme saying, \\"I wanted him bad,\\" ... \\"But I wouldn't've done it different.\\" Given that patterns of speech are indicative of character, Deaver's sent his primary character down a different road for no known reason.<br />The criticisms aside there are some very entertaining scenes, particularly those having to do with magic effects. But overall, this is not a satisfying, suspenseful book in the way The Bone Catcher Was. The underpinning is showing, the villain isn't especially interesting or well-defined; he's another killing machine about whom few insights are offered. And there are way too many feel-good moments to give this book the edge it needs.	2003-04-05
US	52921362	R1UMTKYF9V69HE	0971714819	828342198	Dice Angel	Books	5	1	3	N	N	Delightful!	Some writers labor over their work and the results are not always the best. Author Rouff may or may not have labored over Dice Angel but the end result is seamless, smooth and wonderfully good-natured. It's laugh-out-loud funny in spots and an altogether entertaining book with likeable, well-wrought characters, and no excess flab. Some writers take to the medium naturally and their work has a flow to it that effortlessly carries the reader along. Rouff is a natural and this is one of the more enjoyable books I've read lately. Noteworthy is the superior editing with only a couple of typos. I can only hope that this is the beginning either of a series featuring Jimmy Delaney or a long, productive career for Brian Rouff.<BR>Highly recommended.	2003-03-29
US	52921362	R2FUXSSQ3S8YVM	0385504268	354796806	The Last Detective (Elvis Cole Series)	Books	4	5	5	N	Y	Fast and furious	As a long-time Crais fan, this return to the Elvis Cole series is a welcome addition. The added bonus is the return of Carol Starkey (heroine of Demolition Angel--a stand-alone, non Cole title I enjoyed enormously) in a supporting role. The plotting is tight as a tick, the narrative races along with a few nice twists. Cole is more lugubrious this time out (as is long-time sidekick Joe Pike). However, given the seriousness of the plot, Cole's somberness is more than acceptable. This is a book that reads at the speed of light and is highly entertaining, and exceedingly violent. It works, though, because of Crais' great gift of characterization. What doesn't work, and is even mildly embarrassing, is the use of italicized front- and end-pieces that are, essentially, about finding one's &quot;inner child.&quot; It's a bit too new-agey, a bit too sentimental (even maudlin) for everything Crais has structured in this book. That aside, though, it doesn't seriously detract from a well-wrought book. It's not Crais at his best but it's a long, long way from his worst (that would be Hostage).<BR>Recommended.	2003-03-28
US	52921362	R3QH444WITGSCP	0676974937	28015391	Nature of the Beast	Books	4	5	7	N	N	Intriguing	I'm a long time Fyfield fan. The more recent books in the series have been somewhat inconsistent. Fyfield's writing is always good but her plotlines now and then were not what they could have been. This time out, we've got a really good book that is, unfortunately, bracketed by a Foreward and an Endpiece that consist of letters. The letters, while obviously the only way the author could impart the particulars she wanted to get across, are tiresome. Once into the meat of the book itself, there's a cast of well-drawn characters and a plot that, on the surface, seems a bit strange. The subplot, however, is clever and the characters are revealed slowly, steadily until they emerge ultimately not at all as they seem initially. This is, finally, a well-told story with an entirely satisfying resolution.<BR>Recommended.	2003-03-24
US	52921362	R3K9P1ZD6H3BBI	0375800530	461445786	Dinosaur Dinner	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Nobody does it better	Dennis Lee is a treasure. My daughter and I devoured Alligator Pie when she was a little girl, chuckling merrily over author Lee's zany humor and vivid imagery. I have subsequently given each new Lee book to the children (and even some of the adults) I know, happy to introduce this outstanding author to those who haven't yet discovered him. Want to make your children/grandchildren/neighborhood kids laugh out loud? Get them anything Dennis Lee has written. He's truly gifted, truly tapped into the mind of the child in all of us.<BR>My highest recommendation.	2003-03-19
US	52921362	R2PGIRV5MERGC2	0684810484	966435098	And Never Let Her Go : Thomas Capano: The Deadly Seducer	Books	4	8	9	N	Y	Prime Rule	This book is a fine example of author Rule at the top of her form, offering a wealth of insight into all the characters involved. Capano is an odious narcissist who is, somehow, incredibly attractive to women. And poor Anne Marie is a well-rendered victim of both her own insecurities and of Capano. No one does it better than Rule when she manages to sink her teeth deep into the flesh of one of these true-crime tales. When she gets it wrong (which, fortunately, is only rarely) as in Every Breath You Take, the wheels come right off. And Never Let Her Go is a creepy, gripping narrative of an ego gone wild and the deadly resulting effects.<BR>Recommended.	2003-03-19
US	52921362	R25L0EF2XDKQMK	0375719156	327360788	Claire Marvel: A Novel	Books	3	6	8	N	Y	Uhm, no.	Having read and admired Reservation Road, I had fairly high hopes for this book. Sadly, those hopes were not realized. Hero Julian seems to come alive only in those scenes that don't involve Claire. His scenes with her reveal a young man who is the polar opposite to the one who interacts with the other characters. With his landlady, the redoubtable Mary, he is alive and sympathetic. Ditto for scenes with his wonderfully well-drawn father. In one very brief scene featuring Julian's mother, he manages to capture the essence of this character entirely with only a few brush strokes. Yet Claire remains, throughout, as essentially self-involved as Julian. Problematical, and very hard to buy into either his obsession or, ultimately, hers. As well, there are some weirdnesses that should've been caught by the editor. The primary one has to do with the couple going to an old house in France that has been unoccupied for quite some time. Yet without anyone ever turning on a single appliance, magically there is sufficient hot water for Claire to take a long luxurious bath. Anybody who's ever been to a cottage or a vacation home knows that the hot water heater and/or the furnace (or something) has to get turned on in order for hot water to become available (usually, in older places, many hours later.) I mention this oversight because when a point like this evolves into the literary equivalent of a nagging toothache, there is a problem with the narrative. The secondary characters, by and large, are far more real, far more sympathetic than the young lovers who take front and center in this novel. I kept thinking, as I read, of Endless Love which dealt with the issue of young obsessive love very successfully, while Claire Marvel is, unfortunately, not a success. Exquisite writing in this case doesn't assist a book that is, at its base, critically flawed. Julian is such a selfish character when with Claire that it came as no surprise that she turned on him. And Claire is such a cipher that it's difficult to fathom Julian's obsession with her.r that it's difficult to fathom Julian's obsession with her.	2003-03-15
US	52921362	RK6I3IJB6B5ZZ	0312972970	842875459	Grave Mistake (St. Martin's Minotaur Mysteries)	Books	4	3	4	N	N	A pleasant surprise	I don't know why I've never read any of Marsh's books. Perhaps I expected them to be in the &quot;cosy&quot; style or formulaic. This was not the case, I'm relieved to say. Grave Mistake has some very well-drawn characters, lots of suspects, superior plotting, and a vocabulary that puts a lot of contemporary writers to shame. While the style of speech is somewhat old-fashioned, it does not deter from a thoroughly entertaining book. Marsh was obviously a keen and perceptive observer of human nature and it shows both in the interior thoughts of the characters and in their behavior. While I doubt that I'll go back to the beginning and read the author's complete works, this was a rewarding adventure in reading.<BR>Recommended.	2003-03-08
US	52921362	RCAU4LWYY2RCB	0747256675	771651532	Gallery Whispers (Bob Skinner Mysteries)	Books	2	3	5	N	N	Tired	I was a big fan of the early Skinner books and so I thought I'd see how the series was doing. If Gallery Whispers is anything to go by, the answer is: Not well. This book suffers from terrible telegraphing of plot points, a number of the most horribly graphic sexual scenes I've ever read, and some of the worst editing/proofreading I've seen in a very long time. To say the book is disappointing is an understatement. It's difficult to keep a series fresh, which is why my hat is off to a writer like Thomas Perry who has the sense to end a series before it becomes stale and move on. Jardine would be well advised to do the same, if Gallery Whispers is anything to go by. If you're interested in reading this author, the wisest course is to start back at the beginning with, say, Skinner's Rules.<BR>Not recommended.	2003-03-05
US	52921362	R357UKB6GW26FU	0743436865	8078750	Funny Money (Tony Valentine Novels)	Books	5	6	6	N	Y	Hugely entertaining	Swain's Grift Sense was pure pleasure and, happily, he's followed up with a royal flush. The writing is lean, the characters are fully developed (even the dog) and hero Valentine is a believable and sympathetic fellow. Any book that entertains as well as informs is one well worth the cover price. The author's seemingly limitless knowledge of gambling scams makes for fascinating reading. Add to this a hero of sixty-two with a sense of chivalry and a good heart, as well as a fully functioning conscience, and you've got a solid series working. From white-haired neighbor Mabel who takes to her new job as Tony's assistant with believable mental agility to wrestler-love interest Kat, to a trio of hapless inept thugs, the entertainment factor is one hundred percent. Superior plotting skill and great narrative drive make Swain someone to watch.<BR>Very highly recommended.	2003-03-01
US	52921362	REK8X4RT9AUID	0787657565	789046580	Videohounds Golden Movie (Videohound's Golden Movie Retriever)	Books	5	16	18	N	Y	Gotta have it!	Ever since the demise of the wonderful Cinebooks library with its yearly annuals, I've had to rely on the Videohound. While it doesn't begin to offer the wealth of detail that Cinebooks did, it is none the less a very comprehensive listing of available films--both for TV and for general release. The reviews are intelligent and fair and it does have an extremely useful series of indexes at the back: the performer index--in case you remember the name of someone in the cast but not the name of the film; the director index and an awards index.<br />If you absolutely must know the details about a film, or what roles a particular actor has played, here's your book. Other sources, like Leonard Maltin's guide just don't cut it.<BR>Highly recommended.	2003-02-23
US	52921362	R2DWWQYCBU9WR5	0385494246	654180128	Amsterdam: A Novel	Books	5	12	16	N	N	Provocative	I found this slim book to be one of the most provocative I've read in a long time--the proof being that I'm still thinking about it a good twenty-four hours after I finished reading it. The portraits of the two men (friends) drawn are wonderfully complex and contradictory. Both Clive Linley, the successful composer, and Vernon Halliday (the newspaper editor) are fearful men who one moment do absolutely the right thing and, the next, do something shockingly heartless. Their interior machinations are fascinating: Linley's near narcissism and his obsessive focus on finishing his Millennium Symphony cannot be shifted, even to help a woman in trouble; yet he takes the moral high ground (not without cause) when it comes to Vernon's publishing damaging photographs of the Foreign Secretary. Halliday is so outraged by the Foreign Secretary's social agenda and so determined to boost his newspaper's faltering circulation that publishing the photographs, to his mind, will solve two problems at once: to disgrace Garmony and drive him out of office, and to jack up the paper's circulation. Interesting, complex issues.<br />The friends' subsequent falling out is so viable and well-constructed that the ending, in Amsterdam of course, comes not only as the logical result of a promise each made to the other following the death of their mutual friend and former lover, Molly Lane, but also as a shocking resolution to a book that depicts every character in his or her totality--warts and all. It's a stunning accomplishment, exquisitely written and constructed--a contemporary morality tale that offers much food for thought.<BR>My highest recommendation.	2003-02-18
US	52921362	R11FNGUJLZULG6	0679439382	39256491	The Little Friend	Books	3	7	9	N	Y	Lethargic	No question, Donna Tartt can write. The problem is she has a tendency to overwrite. So this is a beautifully written, turgid book, with a great premise that goes ... nowhere in particular. The characters are not particularly likable or sympathetic, the pacing is slow to ponderous, and the book just goes on, and on, and on--seemingly forever. There's no clearly defined sense of time. Is it the present, or is it the past? References to Beatniks and old cars confuse the era, as do mention of things very definitely of the past and other things of the present. If you're looking for something with a viable resolution, this is decidedly not the book. It's a two-star novel, with an extra star thrown in for the author's talent as a writer--not for her ability to leave the reader with any sense of satisfaction. Had her previous novel not been such a great success, it's hard to imagine any house being willing to publish this one.	2003-02-13
US	52921362	R1SE0I5T3V67P4	1586670921	974074244	A Vision of Paradise: Robertson Ward and the Mill Reef Club	Books	5	7	7	N	Y	Almost the family album	This book is very personal--my late mother- and father-in-law were two of the founding members of the Mill Reef Club (they are both buried on the island in St. Philip's Parish) and it's wonderful to study the old photos and see the genesis of one of the most beautiful places anywhere. Robertson (Happy) Ward created something unique and lovely in the club itself and in the houses--the open uncluttered living spaces, the soothing pastel colors and, always, the inviting views of the beach, the bougainvillea, the expanse of impossibly unique blue of Caribbean water. If there is a paradise, for me always it will be the remembered aspects of the club; the mornings under the huge thatched umbrella on the beach when everyone gathered to visit--periodically getting up to walk into the shallows to cool off. In the struts supporting that umbrella were stored flippers, snorkeling gear, forgotten sunglasses, suntan lotion, odds and ends. Residents and guests, visitors invariably found their way to the umbrella--an ever-elastic gathering that was the focal point of the farthest end of the beach from the club. Everyone made the long walk along the sand, back and forth to the club, admiring the houses fronting the water--those pastel creations that looked almost edible. It was an intimation of what heaven might be like. And this book offers portraits of the original members, insight into Ward's creative gifts, and a singular view of another time in another place.	2003-02-07
US	52921362	R20APAEA3GIWN0	0446602388	730526077	14 Peck Slip	Books	5	0	0	N	Y	Utterly authentic	For a pleasant, rewarding change, 14 Peck Slip is a procedural, written by a former police officer, that doesn't romanticize the job or try for false sentiment. It has a weariness, a gritty truthful edge, and a depth of heart that are unparalleled in the books I've read by other former cops. Dee's feel for Manhattan and his evocation of the city, bring it fully to life--one can almost feel the rain dripping down the back of one's neck; the characters are entirely believable, particularly hero Anthony Ryan and partner Joe Gregory. Good hearted Ryan with his questioning intelligence and almost helpless love of wife and family; and bad-boy Gregory, hard-drinking, impulse-driven, with a fuctioning heart hidden beneath the self-protective layer of steel acquired after years of seeing the worst the mean streets have to offer.<br />Good plotting, fine writing and particularly well-wrought characters make this first-rate reading.<BR>Highly recommended.	2003-02-07
US	52921362	R1MK6PGW3R92A0	0553089358	971078226	Lizard Skin	Books	5	5	5	N	Y	Just terrific!	This was Stroud's first novel, after two works of non-fiction. And unlike most journalists who have great difficulty making the transition from fact-based writing to fiction, Stroud has no problem at all. This is an outstanding book: characters so real you can practically touch them, humor so outrageous that sections provoke out-loud laughter, a complex completely viable plot-line, and sections of writing lyrically simple and beautifully constructed. Stroud is one wonderful writer.<br />Aside from all the above assets, the author's feel for place is so powerful that Montana comes alive in its vistas, its climate and its denizens. There's also a lot of native American history, integral to the plot, that isn't sentimentalized but made to come alive--via hero Beau McAllister's sensibilities.<br />A good author always, always leaves the reader wanting more. Lizardskin is a signal accomplishment in that it practically begs for a sequel. Stroud has gone on to write other, equally fine books, resisting the temptation to overwork a winning hand. Smart fellow, first-class writer.<BR>My highest recommendation.	2003-02-05
US	52921362	R2ET4BZMVQ1M2P	0312303556	557837036	The Guards: A Novel	Books	5	20	21	N	Y	Immensely entertaining	Here's a book that stands the typical procedural format on its ear. There isn't another novel like it anywhere. With exemplary skill, Bruen makes plot secondary to characterization, and splendid characters abound--primarily his hero Jack, a fatalistic ex-cop with a wonderfully self-deprecating sense of humor, along with a great and vulnerable heart--and lists, of anything and everything. Chapter headers with quotes from here, there and everywhere--from popular mystery writers to classics. On top of all that, author Bruen writes about the disease of alcoholism with great accuracy and not a single maudlin note. The Guards reads like simultaneous gunshots to the head and the heart. It is a stunning accomplishment.<BR>My highest recommendation.	2003-01-28
US	52921362	R2YGIB2WHA71G0	1582343411	274813739	City of Masks: A Cree Black Thriller (Cree Black Thrillers)	Books	5	15	20	N	Y	A new direction	Daniel Hecht isn't capable of writing a bad book or of writing badly. With an imagination as fertile as his, and with superior writing/narrative skill, whatever he tackles is never less than intriguing. City of Masks is no exception. Hecht tackles the world of the paranormal via engaging heroine Cree Black--a thoroughly believable, fully dimensional woman who just happens to be a ghost-hunting psychologist.<br />Hecht flirts perilously close to dubious territory in having his characters posit the possibilities of recovered/repressed memory (discredited by courts and by the APA) and multiple personality disorder (discredited universally--but so beloved by its supposed victims that it's been renamed DID) and satantic ritual abuse (again, discredited.) Despite these flirtations with discredibted syndromes, it is a credit to the author that he never goes all the way down any of those roads and, in fact, builds a viable case for sad, haunted Lila--whose ghosts Cree has come to New Orleans to &quot;bust.&quot;<br />The characters are so well drawn and so believably driven/tormented/haunted that they come across as entirely sympathetic. And the author's research into the city of New Orleans is seamlessly woven into the narrative so that we see the city through Cree's eyes, rather than through the author's--no small feat.<br />While the villain of the piece was obvious to me very early on, it was nevertheless fascinating to see how the author was going to take us there and to learn what surprises were in store. And, indeed, there are some unexpected twists. The achievement of this book is the author's ability to make us care about his central characters, thereby making us willing to travel with them into territory where suspension of disbelief might not otherwise be possible. Most of us are willing to entertain the possibility that there might be ghosts; Hecht extrapolates on the possibilities in convincing fashion.<BR>Highly recommended.	2003-01-25
US	52921362	R2A8P009MZBPF	1400060036	721149356	Dead Aim: A Novel	Books	4	4	7	N	Y	Intriguing	In his recent books, Thomas Perry has extrapolated on the human potential for both good and bad. In Dead Aim he offers the possibility of providing wealthy, jaded people with the opportunity to kill people. It's an intriguing concept in that very few of us haven't at some point or another declared--out of upset or anger--that we'd like to kill so and so.<br />Perry's central figures are always thoughtfully constructed and believable. Robert Mallon, hero of Dead Aim, is a decent, good-hearted man pushed by the suicide of a young woman he's rescued from a first suicide attempt to try to comprehend why she was so determined to take her life. Anyone who has known a suicide wonders about the reasons. It's an act so shocking and so counter to the majority whose optimism (no matter how minimal) and whose life-curiosity keeps us ticking along day after day that it's difficult to grasp the concept of an interior darkness so deep that no light can illuminate it.<br />So Mallon sets out to find answers and becomes a target for the wealthy killing machines who've been trained at The Safe-Force School of Self-Defense. And he manages repeatedly to survive the attempts on his life.<br />Where the book falters is in the final confrontation(s)--Mallon single-handedly taking on half a dozen highly trained assassins. Without sufficient background information to substantiate it, he morphs from mild-mannered, decent fellow into someone so skilled at and knowledgable of armed combat that he emerges Rambo-like as the victor. It's an ending that is, on the one hand, very satisfying: the good guy wins, the bad guys lose. On the other hand, it's a little hard to buy.<br />That said, this is--as always--another enjoyable effort. Reading a Perry book is never a waste of time. Any writer who can make you think is a good writer. And if you can remember anything about the book half an hour later, then the author is better than good. Always intelligent, Perry's writing is lean and well-constructed. The idea of a high-priced killing academy is not inconceivable. And despite a slightly abrupt ending, Dead Aim is well worth reading.	2003-01-16
US	52921362	R165DA907III1	0688174590	81421806	Kisscut: A Novel	Books	2	8	13	N	Y	Two and a half stars	In this, Slaughter's second effort, it would appear the author is somewhat fixated on bathrooms as places where horrors occur--using the bathroom, yet again, to kick off a book that is every bit as grim as the first one.<br />While I give the author points for writing and narrative skills, her characters remain flat and unsympathetic; none of them comes to life in believable fashion--including the young victims of horrific sexual abuse. Slaughter has taken a serious issue and attempted to treat it with the gravity it deserves. Unfortunately, no genuine insight into the issue is on display here; the effects depicted are only somewhat better than superficial--which doesn't help to enlighten readers as to the extent of the problem or the true motives behind the multi-billion dollar business in child pornography, or the mind-sets of people who abuse their own children for profit, and, finally, the psychopathology of pedophiles.<br />Overall, the author comes across as misogynous, evidencing what comes perilously close to contempt for females--of every age. When the heroine's ex, Jeffery, is musing angrily on his unsuccessful bedroom encounter with her, he actually takes mental issue with Sara for not shaving her legs: \\"And her legs had felt hairier than his.\\" This is arrant silliness--female awareness foisted on a male character--and it doesn't fly at all.<br />In all, it's hard not to come away from this second of Slaughter's books, feeling that she's pursuing hot-button issues and sensationalizing them. The descriptions of abuse, in particular, are way over the top without actually contributing anything to a reader's comprehension either of the issues or to remedying the lack of likability of the characters--particularly Lena, a detective with such an appalling attitude that it's simply not believable that any police force, no matter how small, would keep her in its employ.<br />Just because the author is on the rise, it doesn't mean her books have special merit. So unless you're ready to wallow in some seriously gory stuff, don't go there.	2003-01-11
US	52921362	R38YZ3OD9C56N4	015100692X	990216712	The Crimson Petal and the White	Books	5	25	29	N	Y	A Banquet of a Book!	Here's an epic (in sheer size alone) that deals with Victorian British repressed (and expressed) sexuality that is never pornographic--an outstanding accomplishment. With fully realized characters and some highly insightful behavior, along with several truly shocking scenes (Dr. Curlew's examination of poor Agnes, wife of \\"hero\\" William Rackham; William's use of his semi-conscious wife) that reveal both the prurience and contempt most of the male characters have for women. William is alternately a likeable and a loathsome character whose pride and self-indulgence are, in the end, his most telling qualities. The heroine, Sugar, is a remarkable achievement: a flesh-and-blood heroine who is imaginative, intelligent and, ultimately, the most decent person in the book, as well as the most valuable.<br />With flawless research seamlessly woven into the narrative, author Faber manages to recreate the sights and smells and even the feel of London in the third quarter of the 19th century. That he is able, with consummate pacing, to keep one eagerly reading is a testament to his skill. What is particularly touching is Sugar's evolution into someone capable of loving acts, especially in her relationship with William's nightmarishly neglected six-year-old daughter, Sophie. The gradually strengthening bond between a young woman thrust into prostitution by her mother and a child rejected by her mother since birth is powerfully affecting.<br />In the tradition of 19th century novels, this is a lengthy tale, told in great and vivid detail. Yet the potent narrative drive maintains a forceful momentum. An exquisite creation, wonderfully well told, with an ending that is left to the reader's imagination--something, it appears, any number of people are unwilling to use. One must applaud author Faber for having the courage not to tie everything up neatly at the end but rather to allow one to make educated guesses about what becomes of the central characters.<BR>Most highly recommended.	2003-01-05
US	52921362	R2WYDUKR3V8IZ6	097189860X	5595303	The Fractal Murders (Pepper Keane Mysteries)	Books	5	6	7	N	Y	An auspicious beginning	Here is a first novel that is written with great assurance, good humor and intelligence. Pepper Keane is--I have to hope--going to be a highly likable series hero. What makes The Fractal Murders notable is the lack of macho posturing, an absence of violent scenes that so many mystery writers feel are necessary to validate their hero's status as someone out of the ordinary. Pepper Keane is a thinking man, with a good heart and a gentle sense of humor. His dealings with females, particularly Jayne Smyers (the professor who hires him to look into the deaths of three fellow mathematicians), are refreshingly honest and discreet. The author spares the reader graphic details--again that so many writers feel are needed when they are not. Most readers have functioning intelligence and don't need to be spoonfed details we can readily supply via our own imaginations. It appears that author Cohen has grasped this significant fact and has written from the heart, without undue embellishments. He also manages to impart information on the somewhat arcane field of fractal mathematics without leaving the reader glassy-eyed--no small accomplishment.<br />Nothing is telegraphed; there are no stock characters. This is fresh, thoughtful writing that supports a new private eye who holds the reader's interest (and affection) through his personal honesty, good heartedness and intelligence.<br />My only quibble is a rather amateurishly done page layout and less than perfect proofreading--neither of which problems detracts from this well-done book.<BR>Highly recommended.	2002-12-14
US	52921362	R2M30CU28VHM8Z	0380820889	695846125	Blindsighted	Books	2	22	26	N	Y	Exceptionally unpleasant.	Based on the rave reviews garnered by author Slaughter, I bought her books and started with her first, Blindsighted. This is the most gruesomely graphic book I have ever read--without exception. While the author gets points for having definite writing skill, this reads as if she sat down and racked her brain to come up with the most horrific rape scenario possible, then added to that scenario with medical details (and later, actual scenes of an assault as it's ocurring that reads like the print version of a snuff film). She succeeded. Rarely have I had such difficulty getting through any piece of writing--primarily because of the meticulously detailed descriptions of one sickening attack after another. <br />While Slaughter is, without question, a talented writer, there's nothing new here. The killer is so obvious from very early on that one reads simply to see what other horrors will get dragged in to embellish this tale of an imperiled pediatrician (who is also coroner of her small town), her ex-husband cop, and a completely unbelievable villain. The only well-conceived character is angry detective Lena, twin of the blind murder victim, Sybil, who is the focus of the opening scenes.<br />I was actually discussing my difficulties with this book over lunch with an English teacher friend who exclaimed that she'd also been so sickened by the book that she couldn't think of a single person to whom she comfortably pass along Blindsighted and so she threw it away. Neither my friend nor I are in the least prudish and both of us read anything and everything. This book is notable primarily for its horrifically graphic description of women violated in unspeakable ways. While in reality these things happen, they don't necessarily make for a compelling novel. <BR>Not recommended.	2002-12-07
US	52921362	RLBULITZDLMEZ	0684812177	352786421	Ross MacDonald : A Biography	Books	5	27	27	N	Y	Exceptional!	A good biography defines for the reader the complete subject. An exceptional biography not only defines the subject but offers insights and generates feeling for the subject. Nolan has done a truly masterful job of offering us Kenneth Millar, without ever once inflicting any kind of authorial (hence subjective) opinions on the material.<br />As someone who, to this day, can remember many of Millar/Macdonald's exquisitely crafted lines and scenes, and who loved both his work and that of his wife Margaret Millar, it was a wonderful experience to read this book. Since they were so integral to each other's lives, author Nolan has wisely, and quite fully, included Margaret in this biography in order to give us a full perspective on their life together--a pair of (ultimately) enormously successful writers who happened to be married.<br />Margaret comes across as a clever, difficult, quite damaged woman, often hiding behind throwaway quips and quite caustic remarks; not at all sociable, undeniably gifted, and possessed of a humor that was frequently cruel.<br />Millar, on the other hand, is shown to be, first and foremost, a generous, thoughtful, kind, and immensely gifted man with a fine, fine mind. His long struggle to achieve the success he so richly deserved is, in some ways, very contemporary; in other ways, it's reflective of the times (the late 40s through the late 70s).<br />Rich, too, in physical detail, what I particularly liked was Nolan's comprehension of Millar's sense of being an alien in America. Despite his American birth, having grown up in Canada, Millar brought to his life and to his work a kind of interior chill that is so very much a part of Canadian life. A very tricky thing to describe, yet Nolan does a masterful job of highlighting the difference in sensibilities between Canadians and Americans. It's no small achievement. We Canadians are not Americans, but articulating why--and defining the cultural niceties--can be exceedingly difficult.<br />To learn that a mind as fine as Millar's is destroyed, ultimately, by Alzheimer's is achingly painful to read. To &quot;see&quot; the man begin to falter and then fail is harrowing and, finally, heartbreaking. Millar redefined the mystery genre, bringing it forward into the mainstream of literature with consummate skill and a peerless talent. Nolan does his subject proud. This is a book that would, undoubtedly, have pleased the shy and unpretentious Millar enormously.<br />Read every Ross Macdonald book you can find. And then read this splendid biography.<BR>My highest recommendation.	2002-12-03
US	52921362	R2JHCIUC7API32	0738832316	534953262	The Risk of Fortune	Books	5	5	6	N	Y	Ah, Dr. Risk!	I liked the first two Dr. Risk books very much and kept waiting ... and waiting ... for another. Then I decided to do a search and, shazam, found The Risk of Fortune. Lucky me. Good for Bob Berger for having sufficient faith in both his character and his writing talent to go the print-on-demand route.<br />Publishing has become a crazy business and too often authors rise or fall on computer numbers. In recent years any number of good writers have gone the way of the dodo bird because of those computer numbers. And that's a pity, because someone as good as Bob Berger deserves to be read.<br />Risk of Fortune deals with the pithy issue of Indian-owned gambling establishments. In this outing, the Bearforest Casino stands in for the thinly disguised Foxwoods in Connecticut. And James Denny's dad has a bit of a gambling addiction, which brings James --aka Dr. Risk -- to the rescue. In an effort to regain a big chunk of his parents' pension funds, which Dad has blackjacked away, Dr. Risk signs on with the casino to determine the who and why of the recent murders of two Pelard natives. In a tribe with only 350 members, two violent deaths represent a significant reduction in their number.<br />Dealing with the much-discussed issue of the morality of native-owned gambling establishments, of gambling addiction (and its effects on the family), Berger writes with gentle good humor; spare prose and a scary cast of villains (bikers, white supremacists) along with a fine feel for pacing add up to a very entertaining narrative.<BR>Highly recommended.	2002-11-18
US	52921362	R3AOYCXJVBF3I	0786243090	341171402	Five Star First Edition Mystery - A Killing Frost	Books	3	5	19	N	Y	Not quite there	I so wanted to like this book. It is the fulfillment of author Black's long-time dream of being published. However, while the writing is good, the first third of the book is the strongest part. The gears (like the hero's borrowed \\"beater\\" car) start grinding in the second third, and the final segment just peters out--despite a big-bang climactic warehouse scene.<br />One of the major problems I had was with hero Shade's romantic interest, Maria. She comes across as so stereotyped, so unbelievable, so lacking in any real depth that she's simply not viable as an adult female. As well, Shade's interaction with her and the descriptions of their exchanges (of one sort or another) are positively sophomoric and read more like a teenage boy's diary than a believable relationship.<br />Most of the males in the book sound alike; they speak the same ungrammatical lingo. There's more material on kickboxing than the narrative can handle, and the truth behind the death of illegal alien Carlos is so obvious that there are absolutely no surprises. Shade comes across as a bit dense and far younger than his supposed age of thirty.<br />On the plus side, there's some nice material about Shade's feelings for stray animals, and a number of scenes have great tension. Unfortunately, there's just not enough meat here to make for a satisfying meal.<br />The author is worth watching in the hope that the next book (assuming this to be the start of a series) will put some of his long-term police experience and understanding to good use in a more deeply felt, less mechanical effort that features grown-up people dealing in a more realistic fashion with issues more compelling than kickboxing championships and the loss of an uninsured set of upscale wheels.	2002-11-13
US	52921362	R1XQREMO2SSTXA	0345447522	694552150	The Devil's Redhead	Books	5	1	2	N	Y	Breathtaking!	Here is a first novel that is truly worthy of accolades: beautifully written, with a painful depth of understanding; fully developed characters (even the most secondary) who live and breathe and do both smart and stupid things. It is, essentially, a story of love--about how two people come together, get separated, and then, almost mythically, fight their way back to each other.<br />The violence in this book is as appalling to the characters as it is to the reader--a definite first in terms of contemporary fiction that thrives on relentless gore. Underlying everything is the author's profound caring for the characters, and it is this very genuine authorial concern that lends such weight and veracity to the narrative. David Corbett is a writer, a person, who knows about love and about the rending fear of loss. And this book is dense with the depth of his knowledge. It is also, ultimately, a commentary on the madness of the drug trade and the near-impossibility of ever putting a stop to it. But love, the indefinable attachment of one heart to another, is unstoppable.<br />This is a raw, deeply felt work by an author with heart and wisdom.<br />My highest recommendation.	2002-11-11
US	52921362	R35OWZ6BWN9Q72	0399149104	87876541	Rain Fall	Books	3	10	15	N	Y	Three and a half stars for a promising work	Here's a first novel that's had ubiquitous rave reviews from far and wide and I can't help wondering if that is, in large part, due to the exotic setting. Indeed, there is much of interest about Tokyo--about the culture, the corrupted politics, the martial arts, the \\"feel\\" of the city. But once past the ingenious opening segment, the narrative gets a little wobbly. In particular, having established Rain as caution personified, the character does so many incautious things that it's difficult to believe he's survived as long as he has.<br />There is the inevitable clever-geek sidekick, hacker genius and generally naive young man; there is the damnsel in distress who just happens to be the daughter of the man Rain has killed at the outset; there are former friends from the old days--good and bad; and there are the usual travel routes that are an integral part of the modern mystery (but which, in most cases, grow tiresome after a while.)<br />For a bi-racial hitman, Rain, ultimately, is too naive. I found it hard to buy his handing off the disk (crucial to this tale) with so little care. Given what the author established up front, the professional in Rain would have gone to great pains to be certain that the recipient wasn't being followed. Yet this doesn't happen. And the remainder of the book, in which Rain tries frantically to regain possession of the disk requires a suspension of disbelief or, at the very least, putting out of one's mind Rain's near fanaticism about surveillance.<br />An enjoyable book to be sure, and an author worth watching. But a few too many character inconsistencies are a detraction.	2002-11-05
US	52921362	R1M99DP6S479I8	0553801805	68956662	A Fearsome Doubt: An Inspector Ian Rutledge Mystery	Books	3	18	38	N	Y	Bordering on burnout	In Legacy of the Dead, this mother and son writing team hit the wall. In A Fearsome Doubt they've managed to put the machine into reverse--just barely.<br />While the first four books in this series relied heavily on the interior machinations of hero Ian Rutledge (and his exchanges with the dead [but-alive in Rutledge's head] Hamish MacLeod,) and the intense interaction between Rutledge and the characters he encountered, the device has worn thin. As well, Ian is no longer as profoundly engaged with the other characters--especially the females--as he was at the outset.<br />The two cases at the core of this narrative are only mildly interesting yet sufficiently so to keep one reading. What detracts terribly from the construct are the anachronisms and errors in British behavior and speech. One glaring example is having a well-bred fellow veteran say, &quot; ... They end up aggravating each other ... &quot; Well, no. This is a purely American misuse of language, not an English one. Then there is a reference to a character being, &quot; ... bent and determined ...&quot; Well, no again. Bound and determined. Definitely not bent. It's a word that has a number of British meanings, none of them positive.<br />But the worst errors all have to do with food. Hot milk is never offered with tea. The upper classes would not have had tea but coffee after an evening meal. Nor would a young waitress at the inn greet the hero in the morning by saying, &quot;I expect you'd like your tea.&quot; At this point in history, tea was considered a meal, not merely a beverage. Finally, the hero eating &quot;thick wedges of egg salad sandwiches&quot; is so anachronistic as to be hilarious. This is a reference to a food item that one would have difficulty finding in England even today.<br />Sadly, mistakes like these detract greatly from a narrative. And while the author(s) may be unaware, it's the job of the editor and copy-editor to fact-check a manuscript for accuracy. The end result is a hero who is becoming tiresome, involved in a couple of not particularly engaging mysteries in a novel more notable for its errors than its for its entertainment value.	2002-10-30
US	52921362	RW68C9C57OI8V	0553584197	382342870	The Poisoned Rose	Books	5	45	51	N	Y	Judson hits his stride!	This prequel/sequel to The Bone Orchard makes good on all the promise of that first book featuring Declan MacManus. In moody, lyrical prose, Judson takes us through Mac's boozy recollection of a bewildering night spent with a woman named Rose. A dreamlike interval, it is  ultimately pivotal to this second outing for hard-drinking, vegetarian Mac and his friend, just as hard-drinking, retired DEA agent--the inimitably lovable Augie.<br />When the pair are asked to discourage a young man from seeing a certain unnamed young woman by the darkly omnipotent Frank Gannon, big wheel in small-town Southampton, all hell breaks loose. Murder and menace of every conceivable variety are central to a plot so confoundingly complex that it's impossible to predict a single moment of this beautifully executed, breakneck-paced novel. The writing is as lean and lonely as Mac himself--perfectly complimentary, something rarely achieved.<br />This book is a knock-out, dealing as it does with the ugly inner machinations of wealthy families and the fallout on the children, as well as on those who must come along to perform damage control. The barely-contained energy of the prose provides a driving narrative that doesn't let up for a moment. It is un-put-downable, gripping, and oddly rewarding.<BR>Most highly recommended.	2002-10-29
US	52921362	R20B7XKGQZMFQN	0399149155	249229548	Q is for Quarry: A Kinsey Millhone Novel	Books	3	7	9	N	Y	Three and a half stars	Subtitle this one: Kinsey and The Odd Couple. Two ailing elderly cop buddies and Kinsey team up to solve a cold case and identify the remains of a long-dead girl. As always, Grafton writes fluidly; her characterizations are solid; there's plenty of gentle humor. There's just not a whole lot of action, nor are there any great surprises. It's a perfectly pleasant book, certainly engaging, but not entirely compelling.<br />That the narrative is based on an actual, still-unsolved, case is more intriguing than the book itself and the last half-dozen pages detailing the case make for fascinating reading: the stuff of true mystery.<br />While Q isn't up to the level of P, it is none the less good reading--far superior to much of what's out there.<BR>Recommended.	2002-10-27
US	52921362	R2L7GC33EUHLC9	0375411283	331413461	The New Biographical Dictionary of Film	Books	5	18	23	N	Y	Oh, so worth the wait!	For those of us who are movie buffs, we're forever looking for biographical information on people in film. David Thomson goes way beyond the usual dry recitation of dates and facts and actually renders informed opinions on the people about whom he writes. Flip to any entry and you'll be entertained and informed by Thomson's refreshingly truthful take. He's one of the few people with the guts to say that Monster's Ball was not the greatest movie of all time, while giving kudos to Halle Berre for her performance. While I don't necessarily agree with all his opinions, it's great to read biographical material that actually offers commentary along with data. From Diane Lane to Bette Davis to Julia Roberts to Rudolf Valentino, Thomson offers comments and insights that no other volume does. I have the previous 1994 edition. Now, happily, I've got hours of happy reading ahead in the 2002 edition.<br />This is a must-have, not just for film fans but for its pure entertainment value as a gigantic collection of biographical short takes.<BR>My highest recommendation.	2002-10-20
US	52921362	R34AS6S0ULXLVQ	0771098855	178250964	The Coming of Winter (New Canadian Library)	Books	4	4	4	N	N	An impressive debut	After reading the author's most recent work, followed by one somewhere in the middle, it was intriguing to read Richards' first novel. Written, amazingly, when he was only 23, The Coming of Winter foreshadows the splendid writer Richards has come to be.<br />This first of his New Brunswick (Canada, not New Jersey) novels is a potently quiet tale of a clutch of near-silent, deeply brooding people. At the apex is young Kevin Dulse, whose twenty-first birthday and marriage are approaching within two weeks' time. As are all the characters, Kevin's inner life is deftly depicted in all of its inchoate anger, integrity and confusion. The men in this book all have active lives of the mind but seem congenitally unable to articulate their thoughts and feelings. The women are only slightly more adept at expressing themselves.<br />What makes the novel so readable is the exquisitely observed minutiae of everyday life in a small town whose major employer is the mill. Kevin's observations while working a number of jobs at the mill, his determination to do even the lowliest job thoroughly and well, make him entirely human and sympathetic. His inability not to go out drinking with his friends is annoying--to him and to the reader--and yet he cannot stop himself.<br />In the course of the two weeks covered by the novel, Kevin takes any number of steps forward into maturity, into adulthood. The details of his mother's efforts to prepare for her son's wedding with only a week's notice are beautifully realized and touchingly real.<br />A quiet book with considerable subtext, my only complaint (and this is primarily an editorial flaw) is the shifting from one character to another without indication of which character is in focus. It makes for confusion as one shifts about, trying to glean from the text just who is holding center stage at a given moment. This is, otherwise, a remarkable achievement for the very young author. And his subsequent books demonstrate how wonderfully well Richards has developed as a writer. I've yet to find any one of his many novels less than fascinating.<BR>Highly recommended.	2002-10-18
US	52921362	R3GPUQPI1MT6H8	0671740679	533390925	Dalva (Contemporary Classics (Washington Square Press))	Books	4	33	34	N	N	Richly compelling, 4-1/2 stars	A writer friend recommended Jim Harrison's books to me, Dalva in particular, and I think I must now send my friend a substantial gift.<br />Dalva is not only a remarkably authentic portrait of a most unique woman (along with her equally unique mother and sister), it is also a book that offers insights into ranching life (Nebraska), the slaughter of the Native American population (the Sioux, in this instance) and a family history that is absolutely fascinating.<br />The one section (relatively brief) I found not particularly compelling is the one narrated by Michael, the alcoholic professor friend and sometime lover of Dalva who has been given permission to write a chronicle of the Northridge family--incorporating the journals kept by Dalva's great grandfather that begin inside the infamous Andersonville prison. Michael's manic self-indulgence and lack of restraint are, without doubt, faithful to alcoholic behavior but this segment of the book lacks the drive and fascination that are inherent through the rest of the novel. Drunks, even gifted ones, get terribly tedious very quickly.<br />Altogether this is a sweeping novel that contains not only intriguing personal histories but also offers visions of the land--be it Nebraska or the Dakotas or Arizona--that are so complete as to feel tangible.<BR>Highly recommended.	2002-10-07
US	52921362	R1OFMNEF0D3XRL	0618045996	111902659	Riding the Bus with My Sister: A True Life Journey	Books	5	50	53	N	Y	Unflinchingly honest	This is, quite simply, a splendid earthbound book. With admirable honesty Rachel Simon details her year spent riding the buses of an unnamed Pennsylvania city with her &quot;mentally challenged&quot; younger sister Beth.<br />Unsentimental, clear-eyed, and painfully truthful, Simon interweaves scenes from the family's past into the tales of her travels with the self-named Cool Beth. We meet a series of quite remarkable drivers, some of whom display levels of wisdom and kindness that are exceptional; as well, the majority of the drivers possess philosophical attitudes and good-heartedness. It's a view from that front bench seat by the door that will undoubtedly alter every reader's perception and/or preconceived notions about the people who carry us from one point to another--in any city or town.<br />Everyone in this book is revealed, warts and all, with perception and, by the end, with a hard-won perspective that leads not only to the author's self-acceptance but also to a new level of respect for the wonderfully well-depicted Beth (in all her rotund, stubborn glory); for the parents and siblings who spent decades of their lives striving not only to be supportive of their sister but also their efforts to come to terms with the effects of Beth on their own lives.<br />This is a brave and enlightening book that leaves one filled with admiration for both Rachel and Beth, along with a heightened sense of how, so often, while we might think we're coping well with whatever life throws at us, below the surface linger effects of which we may well be unaware.<BR>Most highly recommended.	2002-09-30
US	52921362	R1KVL3KLRTL7HU	0060197668	359681544	Blood Double	Books	4	3	3	N	Y	A good follow-up	I loved McMahon's first book, Twice Dying. And while Blood Double isn't quite as potent, it is a fast-paced narrative that has a lot of merit. The characters are believably well developed, particularly Lex Rittenour, the Gates-type computer wiz with a personality deficit and a drug problem. McMahon nails Lex's drug-addict behavior nicely: the grim nasties when he needs a fix, the nutty pleasantries when he's had one.<br />The pithy issue of genome mapping (and its many-tiered implications) and the pending IPO of Lex's very incomplete computer program (that promises to bring in billions) and the sundry Big Boys involved in the financial aspects of this stock offering are at the core of this book.<br />People involved, even peripherally, in the program's creation and sale keep getting dead. It is Lex's near-fatal overdose that lands him in the ER where Monks is responsible for saving his life. The book takes off like a rocket from that point, with some harrowing attempts on Monks's life, the introduction of a possible love interest (the one character I found not entirely believable) and ultimately a harsh look at the reality of the corporate world--where what you put a stop to today will get renovated and go out there tomorrow, no matter what.<br />Clean, lean prose and an intense narrative make this a book easily read in one sitting.<BR>Recommended.	2002-09-18
US	52921362	R45WKP9DMHTRA	0743218035	67925070	The Keepers of Truth: A Novel	Books	4	5	5	N	Y	Compelling	This is a sad, dark novel with sad, dark characters. Beautifully written with very real people and scenes of harrowing behavior by otherwise ordinary people. The elevation of suspected murderer Ronny Lawton to local folk hero at Denny's, where he becomes employee of the month as a result of his sudden popularity among the high school crowd is frightening in the depth of its truth. Bill, the young narrator, is a lost, desperately lonely man whose life has become a twisted, painful thing because of an absence of familial love; a man whose grandfather was a tyrannical self-made immigrant millionaire and whose father was a suicide. Bill is brilliant, almost too aware of society deconstructing before his eyes, and a truly touching character.<br />The major problem I had with this book was the time frame. The references are all over the map and at most points the story would appear to be set in the 70s; yet there are references forward in time that confuse the issue so that one is left wondering if there are anachronisms on the page or if one has misunderstood the time frame. Given the significance of Vietnam to the story, I had trouble determining just when the action was taking place.<br />That said, this is well worth reading--particularly Bill's fascination with Lucas, the child of Ronny Lawton's \\"estranged\\"--as she is referred to throughout the book--with whom Bill becomes involved, almost against his will. At the end, there is the hope that Bill will rescue little Lucas from a fate too similar to his own. And that is something remarkably uplifting in a book that is so very grim.<BR>Recommended.	2002-09-15
US	52921362	R6BWT1X0VXIF8	0375758232	943705979	Paris to the Moon	Books	5	8	10	N	N	Gently amusing and very insightful	There is so much to like about this book that it's difficult to begin at any specific spot. Aside from the wonderful viewpoints of Parisian life offered by a true North American (that is: someone who was born in the United States and lived for many years in Canada), there is pure entertainment value in Gopnik's writing about French cooking and French restaurants--historically and contemporaneously. Renting an apartment, buying Christmas trees and strings of lights, all the things that are ordinary events on this continent are entirely different, challenging, even frustrating for Gopnik, his wife and son in Paris. But more than anything else, what I found completely engaging was the growth of Gopnik's son, Luke Auden, during the family's five years in Paris. The child is so vividly drawn, so very real, so very French in many ways and yet multi-national, that his adventures, his thoughts and words and even his little-boy \\"love affair\\" with the divine Cressida are--as represented by his father--completely enchanting.<br />Of his own Parisian gaffes and uncertainties, of his passions and his evolution into a true \\"foodie\\" Gopnik is refreshingly truthful. He writes beautifully, whether it's about politics, or cooking, or dining out. And, ultimately, he comes across as someone who is very aware of every nuance of the world and the people around him.<br />This is a lovely book. Most highly recommended.	2002-09-08
US	52921362	R18HOB28C3MQZA	0743453344	607521541	The Killing Kind	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Not for the faint of heart	Charlie Parker is back, on the trail of evil-doers once again; seeing dead people and seeking to avenge their deaths. In The Killing Kind Charlie is asked to look into the death of Grace Peltier and off we go on a dark, spooky ride. As always Connolly writes with great ease, creating villains of unsurpassed creepiness and describing horrific deaths of a vast variety. The horror is eased by the startling bits of humor that pop up when they're most needed--the sure signature of an author who knows that the material needs breaths of fresh air at regular intervals.<br />The book gallops along, in Connolly's always trim narrative style, with enough heart-stopping moments to warrant having a cardiologist on stand-by while you read--particularly if you pick up this book at night. There is much to be admired in this author's writing: a fine gift for characterization, clean tight prose, and a sense of timing that would do any musician proud.<br />Most highly recommended, but with a caution. If you're at all bug-phobic, stay well away from The Killing Kind	2002-09-08
US	52921362	R1IXQSHWIR83PZ	1557100470	636226721	Cold Eye	Books	3	23	23	N	Y	Just okay	Having read the author's recent Forty Words for Sorrow, I was curious to read his first novel. Published in 1989, Blunt has come a very long way in the intervening years. Cold Eye is a cold book on a Faustian theme: an artist, in essence, makes a deal with the devil -- in this case a hideous dwarf -- in return for success.<br />Nicholas Hood's chosen theme for his paintings is violent death. While his work is much admired for its technical skill, it lacks heart/insight/passion. So, in fact, does the artist who is married to an impossibly sweet and lovely musician (harpsichord). Everyone in the book is far too tolerant of this unpleasant man who becomes ever more unpleasant exponentially once he's made his \\"deal with the devil.\\"<br />The writing is fine; the subject matter is merely unpleasant and not particularly revealing. Although the one truly inspired aspect is that as Hood becomes exposed to more and more violent murders, courtesy of Bellisle (the \\"devil\\" of this tale), Bellisle becomes, to Hood's eyes, more and more handsome. This is a very well conceived corollary: that the more attractive something becomes to a person, the more attractive becomes the purveyor or facilitator of that particular something.<br />Otherwise, while all the secondary characters are well-drawn and sympathetic and, no doubt, the author intended us to dislike Nicholas Hood, unfortunately he's so dislikable that it makes for difficult reading. This makes Blunt's progress as a writer notable, because Forty Words for Sorrow is one of the best books I've read in a long while. Cold Eye is worth reading for its value in tracking the growth of the writer. And I expect some horror fans might find it very entertaining.	2002-08-25
US	52921362	R1HBQ40SR2LAGO	0618145311	591387792	River Thieves: A Novel	Books	5	13	15	N	N	An Impressive Debut	The poet in Crummey is very much in evidence throughout this book. His prose (which makes use here of arcane words and expressions unique to Newfoundland, as well as some of the surviving nouns of the Beothuk language) is as strong and often bleak as the island itself in his narrative of the early 18th century inhabitants and their violent relationship with the (literally) red indians, the Beothuk.<br />Fact and fiction are seamlessly woven into a fascinating study of the bleak beauty of the place and the difficulties of the trapping/fishing lives of the residents--most of whom have found their way to the island from Great Britain. These \\"newcomers\\" are at great odds with the indigenous peoples: the Mi'kmaqs and the Beothuks; and the Mi'kmaqs consider themselves to be far superior to the Red Indians. The eternal pecking order.<br />What makes this book so fascinating, aside from its fully fleshed, very human cast of characters and the neverending labor of their daily lives (as well as the wretched weather), is the decimation and, ultimately, the complete eradication of the Beothuks. From the modern perspective, genocide is an ongoing horror. But for those arriving on foreign, North American shores, it was a matter of killing to stake a claim to the land, killing out of fear or contempt, but killing and killing until those with the most legitimate claim simply ceased to exist.<br />In dealing with many perspectives, the author gives us an insightful view of the rationales operating for every one of the characters in this book. It's a tour de force of collective viewpoints woven together to form an historical tapestry.<br />Beautifully written by a writer with great feeling for his characters and for history, wrenching and sad, River Thieves is a splendid book.<BR>Most highly recommended.	2002-08-23
US	52921362	R2VR01Y3T64FG3	0553070045	201369665	Sniper's Moon: A Novel of Suspense	Books	5	5	5	N	Y	Outstanding!	When I find an author whose work I really like, I tend to buy all their books and then space them out, to read over a period of time--prolonging the pleasure. In the case of Carsten Stroud, having started with his most recent book, Black Water Transit, I chased down all his previous books and am taking my time reading them.<br />Sniper's Moon, Stroud's first novel, is like a fireworks display. It starts off with a bang, then dazzles one with bursts of patterns against a night sky. This look at the inside/outside life of an NYPD sniper, a second generation cop, is a stunning piece of work--insightful, compelling and melancholy.<br />Managing with great skill to weave together simultaneous plot lines, the narrative takes off in high gear and doesn't let up for a moment. All the characters are fully three-dimensional, even the most minor, and while there is a great deal of violence it doesn't get in the way of the story. And when, roughly at the midpoint of this book, the hero Frank Keogh is accused of killing two fellow cops and takes off to try to unravel things from a distance, there ensues what is one of the best hide-and-pursuit segments I've read in a long time.<br />While I guessed who was the villain of the piece early on, the author manages to pull off a nice surprise ending that is unexpected.<br />Some of the writing is beautifully lyrical; the insights into the minds of the men and women involved is refreshingly honest. This is a terrific book.<BR>Very highly recommended.	2002-08-19
US	52921362	R31BOJHAF5C06R	0312274645	282512756	The Ivory Coast: A Novel	Books	3	7	10	N	Y	Very unpleasant	I really wanted to like this book. However, I found it increasingly difficult even to keep reading it. It has a cast of such hateful, self-interested and/or depraved characters; it has so much racism and violence, that it's not even a remotely pleasurable reading experience. Add to that, many anachronisms (\\"good to go\\" and \\"gone south\\", for example, are two very modern terms not in common usage in the mid-50s) and sloppy copyediting (Spike Lee instead of Spike Jones, names misspelled, countless extra and/or misspelled words) along with famous names repeated over and over, and you have a book with a good premise that simply isn't sufficiently compelling or believable to hold one's interest. Graphically ugly sexual scenes and scenes of horrific racism further detract from what might have been an interesting examination of an era. It may well be that Las Vegas was every bit as crooked and racist as described by author Fleming but without any likeable characters, it's not possible to care much about what happens in this book--particularly with a drug-and-alcohol-addicted hero who seems always to do the wrong thing and who never becomes entirely real. That's unfortunate, because Fleming's pedigree is impressive. But a good book requires more than just a lot of research. It also requires a beating heart and The Ivory Coast's major failing is its lack of that very thing.	2002-08-16
US	52921362	R3KDCDE01YV9WO	0385501188	214325446	Code Sixty-One	Books	4	4	4	N	Y	Yes, but ...	Here is a book that would have been far better served if the acknowledgments had come at the end, rather than at the beginning. Since I never read flap copy (it's either badly written or gives away the entire plot), the acknowledgments page in Code Sixty-One basically gives the game away. With the subject of vampires clearly stated on that page (making this book sound like a fantasy or horror novel) it was only because I am such an admirer of Harstad's work that I was willing to continue reading.<br />That said and that misplaced (albeit well-intentioned) page notwithstanding, this is another nicely done book in the Houseman series. The various law enforcement people are well-drawn, particularly the deeply annoying Borman. And the young people who live in The Mansion and whose personal sorrows make them susceptible to belief in the unbelievable are written with sympathy, understanding and humor.<br />The villains of the piece are equally well-drawn, leaving one to ponder on the pitfalls of wealth, sexual aberrance and extreme delusion (to the point of madness). As always in Harstad's books, the narrative moves along at a good clip and there are enough quirky characters (good and bad) to populate a small town. There are however a couple of problems I had with this book. The first is that there is no mention of what became of Alicia Meyer, whose 911 call starts this novel. And secondly, although it's interesting enough, there's way too much time spent in the narrative and more information on 10 codes (police radio info) than is necessary. After a time, the radio communications got in the way of the narrative. Given that the author includes a bibliography of these codes in the back of the book, the narrative wouldn't have suffered from some judicious editing of these calls back and forth.<br />As a writer, Harstad is never mean-spirited, and his books reflect that. Code Sixty-One is no exception. It is compellingly readable.<BR>Recommended.	2002-08-11
US	52921362	R1BGSLR5NZXZA4	0375414517	451075551	Angel Rock	Books	5	3	5	N	Y	Beautiful	This book is exceptional on every level, from its characterizations, to its narrative structure, to its plotting. The characters in particular are so finely wrought that each one, no matter how minor, is very real. Especially appealing are young Tom who is at the heart of this book: a kind and sensitive boy with a great depth of feeling, and Gibson, the detective from Sydney who has come to Angel Rock for reasons both known and unknown; a man of many sorrows who is none the less capable of gentleness and sympathy. These two characters connect in some way with everyone else in this wonderfully well-told tale of terrible loss and of life in a small Australian town. <br />Nothing in Angel Rock, either the fictional town or the book, is predictable. Good people have bad moments; bad people have good moments. Everything meshes into a cohesive tale that is, in essence, about family dynamics and their long-term effects both good and bad on children. This is one of the most beautiful books I've ever read; the last being Cold Mountain. There is no comparison between the two novels--merely a great gap in time.<br />Darren Williams is a splendid writer, with great insight into human behavior and an understanding of how the smallest kindness to an adult or a child can have a lifetime's impact, and how a misplaced grudge can grow until it obliterates the landscape. <BR>Most highly recommended.	2002-08-05
US	52921362	R2LBIDEFMZPI9Q	031228487X	519220123	Killer Waves: A Lewis Cole Mystery (Lewis Cole Mysteries)	Books	4	10	13	N	Y	Another good entry in the series	I am beginning to believe that the same person is behind the spate of ugly reviews lately emanating from Publishers Weekly. Certainly, it's a shock every time to finish reading an enjoyable book and come to the site to post a review only to discover yet another nasty attack by a PW reviewer.  Given that I come to the table with my critical faculties intact, a long-term knowledge of what goes into the writing of a book, and a healthy respect for the effort, I'm at a loss to comprehend why anyone would be so negative about this book.<br />Bottom line: I stayed up until after 3 a.m. this morning to finish this latest entry in the Lewis Cole series. That should say it all. Bad books don't keep you up long past your bedtime. And food, as well as roads taken, are a staple of most mysteries. That said, Killer Waves is compellingly readable, with a particularly well-fleshed cast of characters (most notably Keith Emerson--a touchingly rendered portrait of a man driven to self-hatred by well-founded fear.)<br />While the PW reviewer may have found the core thesis of this book far-fetched, I guess he neglected to read the author's note at the back of the book citing the true facts upon which he based his narrative. Truth, indeed, can be far stranger than fiction.<br />Cole's capitulation in the face of governmental coercion--literally stripping him of every last thing he owns --is very believable. They want his help; he says no. They'll force him to help. Works for me. And given his background as, in essence, a Pentagon researcher, Lewis doggedly goes forward, snapping and barking at his \\"masters\\" every so often in a viable depiction of man who'll do what he has to do but won't stand on his hind legs and do tricks for bisquits.<br />There is a most surprising twist at the climax of the book. I thought I saw this one coming but the author had a double whammy planned; one that is very nicely executed. In all, a diverting book with some interesting historical facts. And, finally,there is something heartfelt and believable in Cole's tracking of the space shuttle Endeavour. <br />Once again, ignore that PW review and get this book. It's well-worth reading.<BR>Recommended.	2002-07-31
US	52921362	RP5BW1T2KS1AP	0380978741	762856232	Black River: A Novel	Books	4	1	3	N	Y	Highly entertaining	I have read all of Ford's books and liked them, without exception. Fury was a wonderful introduction to a new series. In this second outing featuring Frank Corso, the writing is as tight and lean as ever; the characters are well-developed, and there are plot nuances that elevate this to an above-average book. <br />There are a number of issues that come into play, both primariy and secondary, but not all of them are equally addressed. The ones that are introduced but not adequately addressed have to do with the behavior of some of the secondary characters--in particular, the drinking of prosecutor Renee Rogers. This woman consumes so much booze in the course of the book that Corso's failure even to consider her possible alcoholism is notable, because most definitely the reader cannot help but be aware of it and wonder. The other issue deals with the matter of using children for sexual purposes. In this instance, the author as narrator makes no serious statement on the matter beyond the unvoiced disgust of one of the villains who subsequently makes  minced-meat out of the vendor of the child's services. This, too, I found somewhat troubling. It's one thing to introduce this sort of thing in order to indicate just how foul the ultimate bad guy is; but the way it's handled is less than satisfying because this other villain, when given the opportunity, never expresses his personal repugnance. One is left to assume what could and should have been stated--if only to lend additional dimension to the character of Ivanov.<br />That said, Corso is an intriguing man with some laudable sentiments about celebrity, among other things. And there is great pacing to the narrative, as well as some nicely convoluted plotting. I will very definitely be waiting with anticipation for the next Corso adventure.<BR>Recommended.	2002-07-27
US	52921362	R1IG6PMU9KOGYO	0345445899	287961022	Vertical Burn	Books	5	8	9	N	Y	Page burner	When Carol Burnett was just starting out, she appeared on Talk of the Town (later called The Ed Sullivan show) and sang a song titled, \\"I Saw Every Movie That Ann Sheridan Ever Made.\\" Well, I've read every book Earl Emerson has ever written. And Vertical Burn is well worth the long wait.<br />This stand-alone novel is one of those books that will keep you reading well into the early hours of the morning, turning the pages and absorbing the details of the action as quickly as possible. It's literally a can't-put-down book. <br />Given his background as a firefighter, Emerson brings a vast wealth of knowledge to this tale of the youngest firefighter in the family who slowly realizes he is being framed to take the fall for starting several horrific fires, two of them resulting in the deaths of his partners at the time.<br />This is a meticulously well-plotted book (which explains why it was three years in the writing) with no strings left dangling; some mad and wicked and greedy villains and a climactic high-rise fire scene that will leave you breathless.<br />As always, Emerson writes with a certain lyricism and with no excess fat; his characters are fully developed with very real, very human strengths and weaknesses. The narrative pacing is in top gear all the way through. It is an enormously entertaining book, even if the conspiracy at its core is a tad hard to believe.<BR>Highly recommended.	2002-07-24
US	52921362	R1UKZO0DFH1ATM	0743213866	672300982	No Man Standing: A Munch Mancini Crime Novel (Munch Mancini Novels)	Books	5	7	7	N	Y	Another winner	No one writes about the perils of substance abuse the way Barbara Seranella does. She knows, for example, that something as seemingly innocuous as a prescription for Tylenol 3 can be dangerous to a recovering addict/alcoholic. And in No Man Standing she demonstrates, once again, her considerable talent for depicting the difficulties and rewards of living sober.<br />Munch's old pal Ellen has been released from prison after a six-month stay for parole violations. Has she learned anything? Nope. She's still deluded, still after the high from cheap wine, or any other alcoholic beverage that might be available. And once again she drags Munch into a whole load of trouble because of a bagful of bogus currency. Everybody wants that money, but Ellen wants it most of all. The Feds want the money, bad guys want the money, and Ellen's running hustles here, there and everywhere to stay ahead of the pursuers.<br />In the midst of all this, Munch is trying to move with her adopted daughter Asia into a new house; Munch is striving for normalcy in a world that seems unwilling to allow it. But there are signs of hope--the mother of one of Asia's friends extends friendship, to Munch's bewildered gratitude. There's also a nonjudgmental cop who may well appear again in Munch's future.<br />As always in Seranella's books, the characters are fully developed, warts and all; the narrative drives along in top gear, and the resolution is most satisfactory.<BR>Highly recommended.	2002-07-22
US	52921362	RFSWNN2246P7F	0771074670	569511512	Nights Below Station Street	Books	5	5	6	N	N	The genuine heartbreaking book of staggering genius	What I recognize in my second adventure into this author's work is a particular truth--which is that (at least in my Canadian experience) poor communities have a singular commonality. There is a language, both spoken and experiential, about being poor that transcends its environment. In Richards' books, poor in Toronto sounds and feels a lot like poor in New Brunswick. While the physical aspects are very different, the population isn't. And there was something so familiar about some of the characters that I felt as if I'd known them in my childhood.<br />Poor angry, alienated to the point of sickness Adele; her mother, lovely, determined Rita, making the best of her marriage to alcoholic Joe--who just may be one of the most perfectly rendered characters I've ever encountered. One cannot help but love and feel for Joe, battling his demons and temptations that all reside within bottles; stammering, powerful Joe with his big body and battered, but still functioning heart; Joe the unlikeliest of heroes.<br />There is such a cast of characters in this book; they have their hopes and miseries and they all intersect at one point or another as time eases away unnoticed and fate makes itself felt in every way in the hushed, shattering beauty of a blizzard.<br />David Adams Richards is the consummate observer, translating his visions into quiet, apparently effortless prose; placing people before us in all their flawed splendor so that we might view the human condition and reflect upon our similarities and differences.<br />My highest recommendation.	2002-07-20
US	52921362	RHDY4TOC3UKDM	0312278136	314149593	The Pale Green Horse (a J.J. Donavan mystery)	Books	5	1	4	N	Y	A welcome return of JJ &amp; Boris	My, my but the Publishers Weekly reviewers are cranky lately--commenting on promotional material over which authors rarely, if ever, have any control; and entirely missing the point of this book. This is entertainment; as in Broken Machines, JJ and Boris and their various henchmen, including the ever stalwart Manny are in fine form. Boris is somewhat crankier than usual, due to some nasty injuries; the phobic, funny, ever-romantic JJ still loves the winsome Kate. Killings abound; there's a bad guy in town. The underlying motive behind those killings is well-conceived and timely. There's a breathtaking climax on the Queensborough Bridge. What's not to like? And any writer who can give a dog character has a lot going for him.<br />Ignore the cranky trade reviewers and get this book. It moves like lightning; it's humorous, populated with a great cast, and doesn't have a mean bone in its body--which is more than can be said for some of the people out there being paid to write reviews about books, not about the promotional packages they come in.<BR>Highly recommended.	2002-07-19
US	52921362	R141DNSBUZWYQ6	0316073016	859287908	Bad Boy Brawly Brown (Easy Rawlins Mystery)	Books	4	1	1	N	Y	Slow but steady	Mosley couldn't write a bad book -- even at gunpoint. His characters are always very real, very rounded and three-dimensional. But the focus of the Easy Rawlins series is always on Easy: his ruminations, his regrets, his recollections. In this instance, it is his self-recrimination for his perceived part in the death of his lifelong friend Mouse. And it is with great relief, even joy, that he takes on the job of finding young Brawly Brown. The search is everything: it validates Easy's sense of self-worth; it allows him to draw upon a lifetime's hard-learned knowledge of how to navigate the byways in the white world. And since the year is 1964 and the world is on the cusp of improved racial parity, Easy is able to draw respect and fear, in equal measures, from both sides of the equation. <br />As is appropriate to a man of Easy's advancing years, the plot moves at a fairly leisurely pace. Easy has become a man of a certain wisdom, and he tracks Brawly and his associates with dogged, yet pleasurable, determination. It is a slow, steady journey with a satisfactory conclusion.<br />What matters in this book, almost as much as unearthing the truth about what Brawly is involved in, is the family that Easy has created, the children for whom he is responsible, and the woman of worldly wisdom he has come to love. It is wonderful to read about a man determined to see his children educated -- in whatever way is possible or viable -- so that their lives will be better than his own.<br />There remains the question: Is Mouse really dead?<br />A Mosley book is always worth reading; this one is no exception.<BR>Recommended.	2002-07-15
US	52921362	R1G6BEG0FNRTDZ	0399148507	841781693	Flash Over	Books	4	2	4	N	Y	Entertainingly different	Mystery writers have gone after all sorts of occupations for their heroes and heroines, but author Chazin has opted to go into territory she knows well: arson. Her heroine, Georgia Skeehan, is a New York fire marshal. Her investigation of an horrific apartment fire is described in harrowing detail from the point of view of the victim. The next fire scene is breath-stoppingly real, primarily because of the inability of Georgia and her partner to do anything whatsoever to help the victim trapped in his garage but must, like the reader, remain on the outside, watching in horror.<br />There are great descriptions in the book--of the vast substructure beneath Grand Central Station, of a number of fires--particularly the toxic warehouse fire that is at the root of this book's narrative. The protagonist(s) are fairly obvious from about the halfway point but, to the author's credit, she none the less manages to make the events sufficiently compelling to keep one reading. The firefighters and their families are well drawn--real people doing real jobs; particularly appealing is Grandmother Ida with her garish wardrobe, and Georgia's son Richie. Georgia is feisty, determined and resourceful: a worthy heroine.<br />One minor quibble: just about every character sighs--often. However, it doesn't detract from the entertainment value of Flash Over.<br />Recommended.	2002-07-14
US	52921362	R3R5R8I3UNOPSG	0525453539	167285287	Hear These Voices: Youth at the Edge of the Millennium	Books	5	2	2	N	Y	Heart-wrenching and important	This is an unexpected book in the sense that it (a) allows young people to speak for themselves and, (b) what the young people (from all over the world) have to say about their joys and woes grips the heart and mind of the reader and leaves one feeling that more simply must be done for our children.<br />Covering everything from an Asian child sold into sexual slavery, to African boys thrown away by their families, to a midwestern American gay, to girlfriends in Northern Ireland, Alison's stark photos are a gritty compliment to the voices that speak with painful honesty. There is a universal commonality that ties these young people together--their desire to do something with their lives, their need to be valued, and their overwhelming responsiveness to help and love when it's offered by some very special, very caring people who also get to speak.<br />Every family with a troubled child, and every troubled child, should have a copy of this book. It is a tool that could bridge a lot of the gaps between parents and children.<BR>Most highly recommended.	2002-07-11
US	52921362	R2DN8KBNYBTH83	0316154059	817062475	City of Bones	Books	3	3	6	N	Y	Lacking energy	When they're just starting out, writers are on fire--driven by the compulsion to write, fueled by the determination to do it better than anyone else ever could. That was very definitely the case with the first of Connelly's books. The Black Echo, The Black Ice were exceptional efforts, the kind of inspired writing that brings readers back for more. Sometimes, when writers achieve success, they lose the fire and their work reflects it. That's very definitely the case with Connelly. His last book, A Darkness More Than Night, was all over the map and not credible. City of Bones is somewhat better because the author is back to focusing on one hero, rather than two. But this book is lethargic. It starts with an interesting premise but fails to deliver, with an ending that is lacklustre.<br />Bosch connects with an over-thirty female rookie and they embark upon an affair. It's abrupt and not entirely convincing. It is also amazingly similar to one of the threads of Lee Child's new Reacher novel. That happens. There are no new ideas under the sun. But the difference between the two books is noteworthy. In Connelly's book the emotions seem synthetic. In the Child's book, it's knockout stuff. It is, ultimately, the difference between a writer who is still on fire and one who is down to the embers.<br />Perhaps Connelly will go in a new direction, given the ending of City of Bones. That might be a very good idea because the Harry Bosch series seems to have come to the end--both in terms of the stories themselves and in terms of the amount of energy the author appears prepared to give.<br />Disappointing.	2002-07-10
US	52921362	R3S48Z4YQGWJI6	0399148612	531181286	Without Fail (Jack Reacher)	Books	5	18	18	N	Y	Another breathtaking ride with Reacher	So far, author Child has yet to deliver anything less than a riveting book. Without Fail gives us Reacher in the ultimate urban setting: the heart of the Secret Service in DC. What would, in less capable hands, have been a deadly dull tale of a highly experienced outsider brought in to help the woman in charge of the detail protecting the vice president-elect is, in Child's hands, a fascinating study of how seemingly innocuous pieces of evidence lead from point to point until the reason behind the threats and assassination attempts is revealed.<br />Writing in the spare, tight prose that has become synonymous with Reacher's character--this man who owns almost nothing, lives anywhere, but is not emotionally unencumbered--the plot builds in pitch until it hits a crescendo, literally in the middle of nowhere. Reacher and his associate, Frances Neagley, (former military associate he has called upon for assistance on this job) work together like the proverbial well-oiled machine, and it is pure pleasure to witness how they think, how they deduce, how they calculate odds, risks, plans of action.<br />The author allows the behavior of the primary characters to reveal their inner lives, rather than wasting precious narrative time (and flow) on attempts to explain them from the outside-in. Final words, a half-written letter, the touch of one hand on another all have great import as a result.<br />This is a fine book. Most highly recommended.	2002-07-07
US	52921362	ROHIPX7HUU4OD	1576871304	540127050	New York September 11	Books	5	13	14	N	N	Powerful and touching	Of the half dozen or so photographic books dealing with September 11th, this book is particularly compelling--not just for the photographs (which, of themselves, are gripping and powerful) but also for the comments of the photographers. Along with fire- and policemen and medical personnel, the other people who ran toward the scene of this event (which--along with the assassination of JFK has become a signal date--one when everyone remembers exactly what they were doing at the time) were photographers.<br />Photographers are the people who use (and need) images to present their impressions of any given experience. What makes this book unique is the accompanying thoughts of those people who captured the moment-to-moment aspects during the horrific attacks on the World Trace Center and after. The images in the aftermath are otherworldly in heart-squeezing fashion: shots of burning wreckage, of inward-looking firefighters, of something as ordinary as a street vendor's cart that looks bewilderingly out of place in the forefront of a scene whose background is a wall of impenetrable black smoke.<br />This a deeply affecting look, close up, at what so many of us are still attempting to comprehend.	2002-07-06
US	52921362	R1X01JD9FXAAS0	038533558X	734473825	Gone For Good	Books	4	2	3	N	Y	Good, but ...	This is typically good Coben: a zippy pace, good characters, lots of twists and gentle humor. The plot unfolds like an origami creation, revealing more, then more, then more. The back story hinges on the murder, eleven years earlier, of hero Will's former girlfriend, Julie, and the disappearance of her killer--Will's roguish, bad-boy brother, Ken. Then there's the death of Will's new love, Sheila who works with Will and the wonderful character, Squares, at Covenant House. (Lots of good, true stuff about street kids.) The story gallops along at breathtaking speed and then, in the last fifteen or so pages, it gets resolved--but ... the machine goes Tilt. One problem is that the author has teenager Katy (younger sister of Julie) suddenly sounding like a middle-aged matron; in other words, she goes so far out of character that it's hard to buy. That aside, with disbelief suspended, things get wrapped up nicely.<br />Unfortunately, that bogus and absurd pop-word \\"closure\\" is used so often throughout the book that it becomes annoying. Coben's editor, or the copyeditor, should have caught this because it  diminishes the impact of the work. Nevertheless, Coben's story-telling skills remain in top form and this is a highly entertaining book.<BR>Recommended.	2002-07-03
US	52921362	R2M7DYF9052VZ6	0743204840	843105206	Jolie Blon's Bounce: A Novel	Books	4	10	11	N	Y	Moody and muddy	The plotting of this book is worth three stars; the quality of the writing (when it's on target) is worth four. When Burke's in peak form, he brings a lurid beauty to the inveitable violence and mayhem of the Robicheaux books. This book requires such an enormous suspension of disbelief that the reader would have to levitate to achieve it. There are several primary characters who suddenly speak in altered voices, who seem to be of another plane--possibly of the supernatural. One character like that (the odious Legion who is at the heart of Jolie Blon's Bounce) might fly; but several ... No. It doesn't work. What starts out as a compelling case of two murdered young women deteriorates into swampy soul-searching that becomes tiresome, as do a couple of overly graphic sexual scenes that are clearly intended to be cathartic for Robicheaux but are merely mechanical exercises of who is putting what where that might validate poor Dave's threatened manhood (after he's beaten to a pulp and kissed by old man Legion) but are not in the least uplifting for the reader.<br />While the narrative has a compelling drive, the plot is spread so thin, over so many characters that, in the end, it fails to satisfy. Dave's old sidekick Clete is, as always, in trouble of some sort or another--this time, it's women and it gets old fast. Some of the secondary characters are well-drawn but the book creaks; it doesn't stand up to close scrutiny. And that is a pity. There are, however, some exquisite examples of what Burke can do with language--the most notable being his description of hearing Tee Bobby Hulin perform his composition \\"Jolie Blon's Bounce.\\" Rarely has anyone written about music with such a comprehensive and insightful feel for its effect.<br />The reader is expected to accept a lot of inexplicable behavior, too many satanic-type characters, and no actual resolution. The book ends on a philosophical note that doesn't ring true, given what the author has attempted to structure.<BR>Not his best work.	2002-06-30
US	52921362	R162712AZBD6DT	0399148620	57740013	Acid Row	Books	3	7	9	N	N	Not her best	This time out, Walters has chosen a housing project and assorted characters as a vehicle for social commentary. Unfortunately, the book is weighted down by so much exposition that it deprives the narrative of its punch. A child goes missing and simultaneously a disgruntled health worker informs a resident of a public housing complex that a pedophile has been moved in without the knowledge of the residents. The combined facts set off a firestorm within the complex. Meanwhile the narrative travels back and forth between the search for the child and the escalating lunacy among the complex residents. Of the two plot lines, the search for the child is by far more successful, being told in a straightforward fashion that doesn't have a bevy of outside performers offering \\"professional\\" insights into the pedophile and his father.<br />Caught in the center of the riot is a young doctor who is sympathetic to her many patients within the complex. Unfortunately, the effect on the reader of her experiences while trapped in a house under attack by a primarily teen-aged crowd is undermined by the above-mentioned professional insights. These off-scene discussions destroy the suspense of Sophie Morrison's possible fate. The book would have been far stronger without the distracting and unnecessary explanations of the behavior of the two men trapped in the besieged house with Sophie. And the search for little Amy ends with more of a whimper than a bang.<br />Not up to her usual standards.	2002-06-29
US	52921362	R1H7XAGW9LY93W	0312268971	643724304	North of Nowhere: An Alex McKnight Novel (Alex McKnight Mysteries)	Books	5	16	16	N	Y	Another winner!	Steve Hamilton writes with great assurance--lean prose with exceptional characterizations and superior plotting. He has yet to disappoint. This time out, the temperamental McKnight winds up in a world of trouble simply by acting as the last-minute sixth player in a poker game at the home of the feisty (think bantam rooster) and eccentric Win Vargas. When a holdup occurs mid-game and Vargas's safe is burgled and some of his treasured artifacts lifted, Vargas comes to the bizarre conclusion that McKnight is the mastermind behind the plot.<br />With the help of his former partner, Leon Prudell (the lovably nerdy straight arrow who has to be one of the most unlikely private investigators ever created) McKnight ultimately unravels the the how of the scheme--but not before his friend/mentor Jackie winds up in the hands of a pair of lethal Canadian brothers. With a climax that is literally cold and wet and stomach-churningly tense, this is a can't-put-down mystery.<br />Then, with what used to be called \\"a sting in the tail\\" Hamilton adds a painful little twist at the end that is completely unexpected.<br />Highly recommended.	2002-06-27
US	52921362	R3GO8IAGQOA77Z	0375703861	363806782	White Teeth: A Novel	Books	5	7	10	N	Y	Stunning!	It's really nothing less than remarkable that the author was twenty-four years old when this book was published. It reads as if it was written by someone considerably older, world-weary, and hugely experienced. This tale of two families has an immense cast of characters, each wonderfully well depicted. It covers such arcane territory as school smoking and its \\"rules,\\" Samad Iqbal's obsession with his famous ancestor and his neverending battles--both physical and mental--with his wife over their twin sons (who are the Cain and Abel of the tale); Clara (and her Jehovah's Witness grandmother, Hortense) and Archie Jones--English everyman and Samad's war-buddy-best friend. It deals with sexual politics, political politics, philosophical politics; the creating of acronymed groups of zealots (anti cruelty to animals; Muslim fundamentalism, the Witnesses); sexual peccadilloes; friendship; racism--everything, in fact, to do with the human condition. And the author deals even-handedly with all of it, with great humor and affection for her flawed, terribly human characters. This is a delicious book, chock-full of keen and tenchant observations made by a young woman who, evidently, never stops looking and listening to what goes on around her. London in all its wonderful, frantic madness comes to life in a modern-day Dickensian fashion that is nothing less than brilliant. Entertaining, funny, touching and beautifully told, this is an astounding debut. One has to wonder what Zadie Smith will do next.<BR>Most highly recommended!	2002-06-23
US	52921362	R10CXBODH5375L	0754030970	149227062	Death of a Sunday Writer	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Very pleasant	I've always enjoyed Eric Wright's books, right from the beginning. And while Death of a Sunday Writer is worlds away from his Charlie Salter series, it is an engaging departure. It does resemble, in its initial premise, P. D. James's An Unsuitable Job For a Woman in that it has a female \\"inheriting\\" a detective agency. But that is the only resemblance. Lucy Brenner is middle-aged and in flight from a psychologically abusive, madly controlling husband--a figure that will be alarmingly familiar to female readers--although this husband is a viable creation in his own right and well depicted. Lucy is uncertain, feisty, overimaginative and altogether charming. The Toronto setting is nicely familiar to those of us who know the city well (and inviting to those who don't); the characters are originals--from Peter Tse, Lucy's new Chinese landlord with the cockney accent (a lovely touch) to the sundry racing types, and to Nina, Lucy's new city friend, who is in many ways Lucy's polar opposite and yet displays a believable concern and fondness for Lucy. Setting herself up to take over her late cousin's so-called detective agency, with nothing more than a curious nature and great common sense to assist her, the reader is rooting for her right the way through. This is an effortless, likeable book.<BR>Recommended.	2002-06-15
US	52921362	R1BNKKI6E82N56	0399147527	406360292	Forty Words for Sorrow	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Riveting!	According to the brief bio in the back of this book, author Blunt has written scripts for such notable shows as Law &amp; Order. It is clear that he brings a lot to the table: a fine sense of narrative timing, strong skill at characterization, and a crisp writing style. These gifts all come into play in Forty Words For Sorrow. From the outset, the wretched cold is as integral to the plot as the characters. Blunt succeeds in evoking the climate both of a mythical northern Ontario town and of the local police force, where personalities clash and collide and, ultimately, pull together to solve the mystery of who has murdered a number of missing kids. There are finely wraught characterizations with not a stock character in sight. The issue of mental illness is addressed with sensitivity and insight.  And at the point where the narrative focus shifts from who the villain might be to the interior rationale(s) behind the crimes, the momentum moves into high gear and stays there. The tension is spread across several lines: detective Cardinal's anxiety over his secrets and personal sorrows; the heightened fears and sorrows of those related to the victims; and the ongoing investigation of Cardinal's past by his new partner, Lise Delorme, who is torn by conflicting emotions and relentless ambition.  This is a can't-put-down book, lean and taut.  I'll be eagerly waiting for the next in the series.<BR>Highly recommended.	2002-06-14
US	52921362	RX4BLHTKXO9GZ	0140247033	35232152	A Long Reach: A Streeter Mystery	Books	4	1	4	N	Y	Good stuff!	The promise that author Stone showed in The Low End of Nowhere is delivered in this second book of the series. While a key plot point is telegraphed fairly early on, the author uses this to his advantage and delivers some nicely unexpected twists. This time out, the characters stand solid in their own right and in the climactic scenes of this book Stone lets his sense of humor loose, with the result that there are some hilarious, laugh-out-loud moments. It's always rewarding when a writer finds his stride and takes off. I'm looking forward to the other books in the series--which are already waiting for me in the small mountain of bedside reading.<BR>Highly recommended.	2002-06-12
US	52921362	RPHQ0FFZUE32I	1559705868	736158679	Mercy Among the Children	Books	5	15	15	N	N	Remarkable!	Here is a book about poverty, both of the spirit and of the pocket. Written in spare, tidy prose with exceptional characterizations, it is a dark tale periodically shot through with veins of pure gold; moments of such exquisite sweetness (in the character of little Percy, or the aging but quietly heroic Jay Beard) that they are painful. There is nothing stock about the narrative or about the characters who are among the most fully realized I've ever read. The good people (the Hendersons) are all forgivably flawed in some small way. And the bad people are understandable in their angry manipulations, in their negative strengths and human weaknesses. This is not light reading but it is potent and powerful, an evocation of the lengths to which the very poor can be driven. Lyle Henderson, son of the Job-like Sydney, narrator of the family history is a most believably tortured and loving soul. One hopes, throughout this book, for affirming moments that never materialize. Yet there is such truth here that I found it impossible not to keep reading.<br />I am dismayed that I didn't know of the award-winning David Adams Richards before reading this book, but I will certainly be reading his other books at the first possible opportunity. The author's talent is rare and wonderful; his eye is clear and he wastes no time on frilly adjectives. This is prose (and truth) at its purest--a truly remarkable achievement.<br />My highest recommendation.	2002-06-11
US	52921362	R14MEPULNQO9JQ	0140246940	705840742	The Low End of Nowhere (Streeter Mystery)	Books	3	4	5	N	Y	A Decent Start	Consider this a 3-1/2 star rating. Michael Stone has all the equipment needed for the launch of a successful series; he writes well, he has a good sense of pacing, and Streeter is a likeable character. Unfortunately, one of the key clues in this book is telegraphed so early on that it deprives the story of much of its Aha! quotient. The characters, with the exception of Streeter and his friend Frank, come perilously close to stereotypes without quite falling over the edge into the abyss. I plan to read more of the series, in the hope that the promise shown in this first effort is materialized in subsequent books.<BR>Recommended.	2002-06-05
US	52921362	RXR9WLWGWT5VD	0553580876	549305531	Sympathy for the Devil	Books	5	22	22	N	Y	Exquisite and wrenching	This is a truly remarkable book, one that could only have been written by someone who'd experienced the madness of the Vietnam conflict and lived to tell about it. It is the most powerfully authentic of all the books I've read on the subject and succeeds because it takes us along on the transformation process. We are witnesses to how a young man discovers the seeds of primal savagery within himself and, thanks to military training, is set \\"free\\" in a fashion, to go to war. Within the context of Hanson's mindset, through his eyes, we see all that is evil and ugly simultaneously externalized and internalized. In Hanson's war there is a scalding justice that is meted out on those who are arrogant, or stupid, or in the wrong place at the wrong time, or who are too young to comprehend the training they've received (or victims of its inadequacy.) Death is everywhere, pointless yet necessary to satisfy a general's need for another star for his epaulettes; to vanquish an enemy it's too often impossible to recognize. The sights, the smells, the reek and feel of torn earth, torn bodies, the melting death of an Agent Orange landscape, invade the reader's senses; with lyrical force we are taken with Hanson through the madness that is his soldier's life and, ultimately, becomes ours.<br />A powerful tour-de-force, this book is peerless, an absolute must-read for anyone with the least curiosity of what too many young men faced eight thousand miles from everything familiar, and what those who survived brought home to relive in their day- and nightmares forever.	2002-06-01
US	52921362	R1Z7G4Q87F3X8K	0375500022	138538485	I'll Let You Go: A Novel	Books	4	8	12	N	Y	Captivating madness	For seven eighths of this book, I was astonished by Wagner's writing skill. His flawless evocation of the Dickensian novel is intercut with bits of modern dialogue that are shocking in their compellingly contemporary grounding. The characters are fully realized and sometimes alarmingly grotesque. Horrific things happen to the luckless, impoverished females in this book; descriptions of the horrors visited upon them are harrowing in their specifics. The author has great insight into the inner lives of children, both rich and poor; he knows of their secret dreams and fears and takes us with them on their journeys to freedom--both physical and psychological. His  characters, particularly Topsy/Will'm and the baker Gilles, the grandfather Trotter, and the birth-defective, brilliant Edward and his impulsive sister Lucy, the orphaned and abused Amaryllis, are also Dickensian in their great passions and flaws. Sadly, about 75 pages from the end, the narrative wobbles badly when it moves into emails back and forth between the children, and letters between the adults. This contemporary segment, with little of the previous lavish language present, simply isn't as compelling as what came before. Fortunately, Wagner recovers to deliver an ending that is realistic in terms of the characters he's created. But those 50-60 pages near the end are overwrought and detract from an otherwise splendid accomplishment. That said, I recommend this book for its extraordinary vocabulary, its brand-name roster of designers and stars of every ilk, and for a gripping tale told in incredible style.	2002-05-31
US	52921362	R31MF583DTW17G	B000066TRE	236139271	Grift Sense	Books	5	2	2	N	Y	Very entertaining!	There's an old adage that you should write about what you know. While I don't necessarily agree with this and think \\"write about what you understand\\" would be better advice, in the case of James Swain and Grift Sense, writing what you know hits the big payoff. Given the author's background as a gambling expert and magician, his hero Tony Valentine knows not only the score (in terms of gambling scams and scam artists) he's also a retired cop; it's a perfect winning hand. The book has great humor and great heart, more plot twists than a well-planned maze, and a load of Damon Runyonesque characters. The writing is lean, without excess padding. The heat of Las Vegas, the noise of the slots, and the portraits of desperate and conniving gamblers, all ring very true. A terrific debut, highly recommended.	2002-05-21
US	52921362	RB46HK6G1JVKE	0786710101	976394415	Resolution: A Novel of Crime	Books	4	12	15	N	N	Familiar territory	This third volume featuring Maureen O'Donnell would, in anyone else's hands, have been serious overkill. However, it is a testament to Mina's writing talent that she manages to keep the reader's interest in the self-destructive heroine. In large measure, it's the secondary characters who help to achieve this. Maureen's friends Kilty and Leslie, her brother Liam, and sundry others supply enough contrast to keep one from becoming exhausted by Maureen's drinking, dark thoughts, and generally alcoholic behavior. There are moments of wonderful humor and, as in the two previous books, a fine evocation of Glasgow. That said, much of the action is fairly predictable and there are no great surprises. But the novel has such good momentum that it carries the reader through to a rather tepid conclusion. Definitely worth reading. And it'll be of interest to see what Mina does next.	2002-05-10
US	52921362	R2PM4VUTLR1SFH	0553584162	697915895	The Bone Orchard	Books	4	5	7	N	Y	Fine first novel	Judson has created a strong portrait of a new, guilt-ridden hero in Declan MacManus; a young man with too many secrets, a deep well of personal pain, and unshakable loyalty to the few friends he has. It is to Judson's credit that the character never steps into stock territory but remains an interesting and driven soul to the end.<br />The book has great narrative drive that doesn't let up for a moment, with fully conceived, viable characters and so much action that the reader (never mind Mac) scarcely has time to breathe. There is murder, threatened harm, and mayhem; and no one is entirely what she or he appears to be.<br />My one problem with The Bone Orchard is the many references to past events for which the reader has no information; a technical mechanism to create an historical pattern of behavior for his hero. Unfortunately there are just too many of these references and they become somewhat confusing. I found myself flipping back to try to find the origins, but they weren't there. One has to fill in the blanks in some instances. This doesn't slow down the pacing of the book and given that this is the author's first published work, he'll probably be more assured in the forthcoming The Poisoned Rose (the second in the series.) I will certainly buy it. Judson is someone to watch. He's very talented and displays impressive control of his material.	2002-05-09
US	52921362	R1HL3E38WWXZF9	0312261349	398553376	The Two Chinatowns	Books	3	3	4	N	Y	Not his best, or his worst	Up to this point, I've enjoyed Dan Mahoney's books. They're well paced and always entertaining, with a wealth of insider police knowledge, and interesting, if not always entirely believable, characters. This time out, however, there are some serious flaws. Mr. Mahoney takes the time to credit a woman in Toronto for helping with details about the city. Unfortunately, the author should have taken the time to recheck those details because there are some glaring errors. The worst of those is the reference (a number of times) to grand jury hearings. The Canadian judicial system doesn't have grand jury hearings; that's a uniquely American institution. As well, references are made a number of times to a mythical entity called Court House. No such place. There are law courts downtown in various locations, but Court House doesn't exist.<br />These factual errors aside, the hero, Cisco Sanchez is, unfortunately, barely believable. He's driven to action against the triads because of the murder of Sue Hsu, the woman he plans to marry. Yet, within pages, she seems to be of the distant past. There is very little reference to the depth of his loss or his feelings about it and in no time at all he's been persuaded to begin dating a former lover.<br />The book has Mahoney's signature speed-of-light narrative, with lots of action, lots of locations, lots of characters, but Cisco is not an entirely sympathetic character (although a likeable one) because of the absence of any depth of emotion. He's all ego and, as the character himself says, (but not meaning it), \\"You might even say I'm shallow.\\" Well, sadly, yes. He is.<br />Read Mahoney's earlier books to see what this author can do when he really pulls out all the stops.	2002-05-07
US	52921362	R3TY7LOHP999O5	0688177557	427472704	Too Many Men: A Novel	Books	5	17	18	N	Y	An Extraordinary Accomplishment!	...This book is something quite remarkable: a trip to Poland taken through the eyes and ears and hearts of father and daughter Ruth and Edek Rothwax. Rarely have I encountered two characters so perfectly realized. As the child of Holocaust survivors, Ruth is a symphonic collection of tics, habits, rituals and agonies; she's an emotional land mine, filled with unanswered questions, with answers to questions she didn't know existed, with a somehow genetic knowledge of events that pre-date her existence. Loss and sorrow and a fear of love/attachment are as much a part of Ruth as her vital organs.<br />Edek, astonishingly, is a man who never walks when he can run; who can eat massive quantities of food and yet always find room for a little something more. Despite his age (eight-one) and the horrors of the first third of his life, he is a man with an enormous capacity for love and kindness, for empathy and, of course, for a bottomless sorrow that cannot suppress his innate optimism and his fundamental decency.<br />Too Many Men (an unfortunately misleading title--my only, minor, quibble with an otherwise enormously compelling book) has many wonderfully ingenious aspects to it, not the least of which is the lovely idea that a woman could create a successful business based entirely on her ability to write letters for any and every occasion. This is not only a bit of acutely relevant social commentary on a lost art, it is also, for many of us, representative of the ultimate dream career. It is a brilliant invention.<br />The fact of Auschwitz (scene of the murder of some 22 million people) being turned into something very like a theme park as a result of Spielberg's Schindler's List is enough to make one's blood chill, and this is conveyed powerfully through Ruth's ever more horrified reactions to what she sees and hears as she and her father travel there, revisiting the places (including Birkenau) where her parents were imprisoned during the war.<br />There are moments ofmad humor throughout the book that have the effect not only of lightening the burden of a father and daughter working hard to reconnect to each other, but also of the true horror of the historical facts of the genocide--all of which are stored in the brain of a woman who cannot get enough information about the atrocities, in a neverending effort to comprehend how and why this could have happened.<br />This is not difficult reading, which is a testament to author Brett's immense talent and humor, but it is enormously important reading--not just for those interested in the lasting effects of the Holocaust, but for anyone who admires a finely crafted book.<BR>My highest recommendation.	2002-04-28
US	52921362	RVJ3FCQTHN3LW	0375504729	940951301	The House of Sight and Shadow: A Novel	Books	4	4	4	N	Y	Very well done	Here is a novel that is the very essence of irony, beautifully written, with fully fleshed characters and a great sense of time and place. To say it is Dickensian (as it does on the dustjacket) is to do the book a disservice because, in fact, the era is the 18th century, not the 19th--in which Dickens wrote his entire body of work.<br />I like books written by contemporary authors that manage successfully to lift you back in time (The Quincunx is a fine example of a truly Dickensian novel; Jack Maggs is another) and allow you to travel about with the characters, seeing what they see, breathing in the aromas, both fragrant and foul, crossing sawdust-covered floors or cobblestoned roadways. It is to Griffin's credit that he accomplishes all this. Not only does he address medical experimentations and the issue of psychosomatic illness, he also takes us along to witness some medical procedures that are jaw-droppingly awful.<br />My only complaint is the maddening use of the verb &quot;smile&quot; as a manner of speech. Almost every character does it. &quot;This time,&quot; smiled Defoe. ... &quot;Was not my carriage,&quot; smiled the writer ... &quot;See,&quot; smiled Calcraft. One can understand the author trying to find some word to replace &quot;said,&quot; but this is an irritating affectation, badly overused, that detracts from otherwise fine prose and a really quite gripping narrative. <br />I do recommend this novel for its fine evocation of time, place and character, and its well-executed, wrenchingly ironic ending.	2002-04-07
US	52921362	R252O2C9YW10T1	0060392452	194848581	Stupid White Men ...And Other Sorry Excuses for the State of the Nation!	Books	5	6	11	N	Y	Ten, maybe even twelve stars	Ah, Michael Moore.  Not only does he make great documentaries, he writes great books. I'd love it if he could be in charge of North America, possibly even the entire world. At the very least we'd have a straight-in-your-face leadership with no hidden agenda and no side pockets stuffed with corporate cash.<br />Stupid White Men iss enlightening, hilarious, informative and entertaining--and none of the judges abstained (or cheated.) It's a must-read for anyone who wonders just what happened to those votes in Florida and how Bush came to be what Moore, wonderfully, refers to as POTUS.<br />Don't miss this one! You'll learn a great deal, laugh a lot, and come away thinking seriously about things you thought you already knew.	2002-04-01
US	52921362	R36GQ4KKTLHKEI	0385336187	700164567	Warning Signs	Books	5	4	5	N	Y	As Good As Ever	Warning Signs is proof that a writer who works diligently at his or her craft will continue to get better and better. White never relaxes into any sort of personal formula but rather approaches each new book with fresh insights, as if it were his first effort rather than his eight or ninth. Particularly effective in this book is the range of &quot;voices&quot; of the characters. Each one has different phrasing, different cadences; each is fully indicative of a complete person. Even the villains of this piece come across as real, believable beings. And the author, via hero Alan Gregory, acknowledges that there is such a thing as standard, pat &quot;shrink-talk,&quot; which he goes to considerable lengths to avoid. A lot of hot-button issues are addressed in Warning Signs, not only the matter of school violence (disaffected teens) but also the very important issue of what it takes to get people in positions of power to listen to what matters to so many who are affected by the decisions of the judicial system, and the often disastrous fallout from those decisions. It has been said many times before that we've arrived at a point in history when more attention is paid to the rights of the criminal than to the rights of the victims. That fact is at the core of this novel and it's well addressed, with the author wisely leaving the resolutions to be made by the readers.<br />Few authors could carry off a novel that switches back and forth between third person and first person narrative, but White succeeds admirably in Warning Signs. It helps to heighten the considerable tension of the book. As well, bits of welcome humor (the description of baby Grace's cold symptoms are truly funny) help to render Alan even more human.<br />One minor quibble: any woman who's done laundry will have the same problem that I did, concerning a bedsheet that figures strongly in the plot. The evidence wouldn't have survived the hot-water wash we all use on whites. But it is only a minor quibble and in no way detracts from the overall fine quality of the book.<BR>Most highly recommended.	2002-03-25
US	52921362	R3EPM5FPHTI9M9	0312974752	472175536	Winter of the Wolf Moon: An Alex McKnight Mystery (St. Martin's Minotaur Mysteries)	Books	5	2	3	N	Y	Doesn't Get Any Better Than This	When you find a writer as good as Steve Hamilton, you wish they'd write faster so there'd be more and more of their books to read. Winter of the Wolf Moon is another terrific outing for Alex McKnight. Having started with his most recent book, I had to buy the previous ones (and I've got the new one on order) and I've discovered that this is an author who hit the ground running and never lets up. Alex is a character with warmth, integrity and gently self-mocking humor. He is so well-realized that his every move and thought is completely valid, as is the behavior of all the other characters in this book--including the weather, which has a personality all its own. The miserable cold, the ever-accumulating snow are vital to the plot twists; and the ending is completely unpredictable. Never does the author inflict himself on the material, but rather allows the characters to speak, to live and breathe for themselves. This is a can't-put-it-down tale, too soon ended, splendidly done.<BR>Most highly recommended.	2002-03-23
US	52921362	R63SRP9CGWR0O	0312278683	622907638	A Study in Death	Books	3	3	4	N	Y	Okay, but nothing exceptional	Yet again, here's one of those books that got great advance reviews. And, yet again, I'm wondering why. A Study In Death is a pedestrian effort with no surprises, either in the plot or in the characterizations. It is, in fact, a very slow read--in no small part as a result of weird editing notable for its lack of commas and semi-colons. Given that the book is only 186 pages, it was a slog to get through it. Almost every character's frame of reference distills down to sex: who wants to do it, who did it, who remembers it, who's obsessed with it. The only interesting part of the book has to do with a computer program. Sadly, there's not enough about this plot wrinkle. There are some moments when everything springs to life, but those moments are few and far between. It's certainly not the worst police procedural I've ever read but it doesn't hold a candle to the top tier of British writers. It's an okay book, but it breaks no new ground and offers no memorable characters.	2002-03-21
US	52921362	R146AQXVA80N94	0595215297	286239667	Journey from Shanghai	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Immensely entertaining	A richly written story that focuses on Rafaella Bardini and Stefano Chang, both with Chinese mothers and non-Chinese fathers, and Rafaella's mother Mai-yeen. Covering a handful of years, from their leaving Shanghai aboard ship, to their arrival in Italy, and the gradual changes that shape not only the three central figures but also a cast of wonderfully well-drawn secondary characters. Bellucci manages to evoke the essence of the places she describes--Shanghai, Catania, Rome, Hong Kong--and to flesh them out with perfectly placed bits of detail, flashes of street scenes; aromas of food, of incense; a splash of color here, a gust of wind there. This is good writing, marred only by less than good proofreading. But even so, an enormously compelling novel that positively begs for a sequel.<BR>Highly recommended.	2002-03-16
US	52921362	R3BFFN94H0J0R9	0786867116	588104426	The Hearse Case Scenario	Books	4	1	2	N	Y	Cockey Scores Again	Hearse Case Scenario is as good-humored and amusing as its predecessors. It does, however, drag a bit; hence the four stars instead of five. Otherwise, Hitchcock Sewell's latest outing is entertaining and filled, as always, with well-drawn, viable characters. Particularly good are Pete Munger, the former lawyer turned private eye; weary and bewildered and angry; and Lee Cromwell, the Ida Lupino lookalike who sings like a noir dream and (kudos to author Cockey) is sexy and appealing at the age of forty-seven. The book has the usual generous serving of gentle humor and a plot that is so complex that it's all but impossible to forecast the ending. Points also to the author for not feeling compelled to subject the reader to endless graphic sexual scenes. This is a worthy addition to what is turning out to be a delightful series.	2002-03-13
US	52921362	R36CPLCKBMCS92	0312245556	113169865	Winter and Night: A Bill Smith/Lydia Chin Novel	Books	5	22	23	N	Y	Oh boy! Bill is back!	Without doubt, the Bill Smith books are considerably stronger, moodier and more powerful than the Lydia Chin half of the series. Interestingly, even Lydia is more viable a character (and less of a ditz) when viewed through Bill's haunted eyes.<br />This time out, author Rozan tackles the hot-potato issues both of school sports and of school violence. And as always, via Bill, she brings a clear-eyed view of the absurdity of parents' expectations of their children (football, in this case, and new-age nonsense). The characters are all fully fleshed, particularly Bill's estranged sister, her odious husband Scott, and their lovable, do-right son, Gary. <br />The search for Gary, the tour of fictional Warrenstown NJ (and a viewing of its citizens) leads to the search for a second boy. Along the way, dark facts are revealed about Bill's past that account for his solitary, soul-searching existence and his quest for meaning via music.<br />This is Rozan at her best, giving us authentic views of Manhattan, of people, of headline issues, and of the vagaries of the human heart, while never succumbing to false sentimentality.<br />Most highly recommended.	2002-03-07
US	52921362	RIVETQGR35QJU	0743237188	434448992	Fall On Your Knees (Oprah's Book Club)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Fundamental truths	I have to say that I had a major laugh over the &quot;reviewer&quot; who thought Rudolph referred to the Christmas song. The reference was, of course, to Rudolph Valentino. It's astonishing what people bring to the reading of any piece of written material. What I brought to Fall On Your Knees was an open mind. And while I might quibble with certain scenes that require too much of an imaginative stretch, what is significant, to me, about this book is its inescapable truth. MacDonald writes so insightfully about abuse that years after the fact I still think about certain moments in the book that are so bang-on that they literally raise the hair on the back of my neck. In particular, the parental history that the author creates is so utterly viable that it made me review my own family's history with a different perspective. And what I saw, as a result of the book was something I previously hadn't considered. Any book that can make one think hard and/or reconsider _anything_ is a book of value. Yes, it is a bit long. But this is definitely worth reading, because the fundamental truth of the pervasive, long-term damage of abuse is well rendered.<br />Highly recommended.	2002-03-06
US	52921362	R37A06MXKI6AR1	0684853701	87039745	A Beautiful Mind: A Biography of John Forbes Nash, Jr., Winner of the Nobel Prize in Economics, 1994	Books	5	8	10	N	N	Compelling	My reaction to seeing the film was to wonder what got left out. So I bought the book. And what got left out of the movie was just about everything. The screenplay is a fantasy, prettied up for public consumption. Granted, film is another medium, one in which compression and simplification dominate. A book allows for expansion, in-depth explanation and exploration of character, all of which author Nasar delivers with meticulous research, effective prose, and sympathy. As someone who was beyond dismal in mathematics in school, I pay Nasar the greatest compliment in saying that she managed to make the incomprehensible accessible to me. More importantly, this is a book on the human level about friendship, loyalty and the toll mental illness takes on everyone involved. Her portrait of Nash is clear-eyed, unvarnished, and all the more fascinating because of it. That a man might be possessed of a beautiful mind and yet have little to no social graces is a difficult concept to make palatable. Yet she succeeds in making us care about this man, in spite of his extraordinary personal flaws and failures. It is not easy reading, but it is important, worthwhile reading for the insights it offers not only into the arcane realm of the mathematical mind but also into the state of a mind altered by mental circuitry gone awry. Most highly recommended--particularly for those who've seen the film and, like me, wondered about the truth of John Nash.	2002-02-27
US	52921362	R2PPBYL380B8BI	0451409000	931515590	Messiah	Books	3	2	4	N	Y	Half and half	The first half of this book takes off like an entry in the Indianapolis 500, with a great premise, intriguing characters and a fascinating back story. The second half falls as flat as a souffle when the oven door is opened too soon--which is a pity, given what author Starling sets up at the outset. Suddenly, halfway through, instead of the focus being exclusively on Red Metcalfe, the lead detective (and possessor of dark secrets and a well of personal pain), we're given multiple viewpoints that shift from one character to the next, to the villain, back to Red, to here, to there, and back again, until the narrative drive has shifted down to first gear and putters along to a finish line that is visible from a long way off. The second half also suffers under the weight of more biblical research than the book warrants; so much so, in fact, that it pretty well gives the game away. A lot of foreshadowing and improbable incidents contribute to bringing the book down from its terrific start to a sadly unsatisfying conclusion. With some judicious editing, this would have been a far better book.	2002-02-16
US	52921362	R20DN6PCSDXD5N	0385324170	393560935	Riding the Rap	Books	3	2	4	N	N	Past Prime	Compared to the truly wonderful Elmore Leonard classics, like City Primeval or Fifty-two Pickup, Riding the Rap doesn't come anywhere near the mark. It's disappointing and kind of flat, but very cinematic; surely it will make a good movie because with enough name-brand actors, the plot-line will acquire some lacquer that the book itself lacks. Nothing much happens. The characters are shallow, as if painted in watercolor, rather than the dense oil paints Leonard once used. All in all, it's a pity--disappointing in the extreme.	2002-02-01
US	52921362	R3JZT0980VJ78	0743202961	243086094	Every Breath You Take: A True Story of Obsession, Revenge, and Murder	Books	3	39	49	N	Y	Not up to par	I've read all of Ann Rule's books, including her pseudonymous ones. They are invariably compelling studies of both victims and killers. This time out, it seems as if Rule was so fearful of saying anything negative about Sheila Bellush (the victim) that the woman is scarcely more than a shadow. Her ex-husband Allen is, in true Rule fashion, defined so thoroughly that he comes across in all his horrifying reality. So do Sheila's second husband Jamie, her two daughters from Allen; even her four quads feel real. But Rule is so cautious in her descriptions of Sheila herself that the book becomes very heavy-going, very one-sided as a result. As well, because so much detail is paid to the litigious battles engaged in by Allen and Sheila in the ten years after their divorce, one has to wonder why a woman who believed her ex-husband was very capable of killing her would (despite her desire to provide for her children) constantly seek to even the score with him in a courtroom.<br />I do not believe, ever, in blaming the victim, but I think in failing to deliver a clear picture of Sheila, we're left with the extraordinary tale of a woman in fear of her life, yet not so fearful that she'd stop poking a stick into the cage holding the lion. Given how well every other character (even the most minor ones) are defined, it's a great pity that the central character remains so shadowy and undefined.<br />This book simply isn't on the same level as Dead By Sunset or And Never Let Her go--tales that show just what Rule can do when she pulls out all the stops.	2002-01-28
US	52921362	R2AASB7AQGRFYP	0802733697	778946839	Ghost of a Flea (A Lew Griffin Mystery)	Books	4	11	11	N	Y	Beautifully bewildering	I'm a long-time fan of the Lew Griffin series--some of the books are positively radiant, some get rather bogged down in sentimentality. But Sallis always writes exquisitely; his use of language is never less than beautiful. In order to make any sense at all of Ghost of a Flea, it's important to have read the previous books. Without those frames of reference, this book maunders along. It's a bit like reading in a roomful of candles that flicker if there's even the hint of a breeze. Yet every so often the air is still and the candle flames grow bright and what has been written springs to life, conjuring scenes and characters that are fully three-dimensional. Other times, it's difficult to follow the narrative thread. Past and present intermingle; characters are presented almost in the assumption that the reader is already aware of their context and therefore none is presented--which is why I think it's so important to have read the preceding books before approaching this one. Things happen seemingly at random; there are small mysteries to be solved, but they are secondary to the anthologies, the footnotes of Griffin's thoughts. This book is worth reading for the complex beauty of its language, but does not stand alone without the five companion books to assist in identifying the characters, their histories, and their ultimate impact on the central character. This is not a traditional mystery in any way. But it is very much worth reading for those moments when the light is full and everything suddenly springs to life.	2002-01-20
US	52921362	R3LIQFPFNAEXJ3	0743212967	486506073	The Jazz Bird: A Novel	Books	3	3	10	N	Y	Not quite	The Jazz Bird makes a valiant effort to recreate the era of Prohibition and a number of the actual players in the game of bootlegging and government at the time. The book sinks, however, under the weight of too many shifting focuses and the contrivance of using diary entries to offer insight into the mind of the Jazz Bird herself, murder victim Imogene Remus. The author does do a fine job with George Remus, offering great and viable insight into the mind of a man so love-stricken that he kills the one he most loves. The character of Charlie Taft is thin, and the man never entirely comes to life, and so it's hard to have any sympathy for him--if that was the author's intent. It's hard to say, actually, where our sympathies are intended to lie. <br />There are scenes, moments, when the book leaps to life (Imogene sitting alone at a jazz club, listening, drinking, inhaling the intoxicating rhythm of a gifted drummer; young George attempting to swim in frigid waters and realizing he's going to drown), then the narrative subsides and we're moved to another viewpoint, another character, another scene.<br />The historical information is seamlessly blended into the narrative and the author must be given big points for that. Sadly, the reader cannot love Imogene as so many of the men in this book did. She is alternately needy and ruthless, compliant and rash. She is made out to be a composite of so many qualities that in the end it's hard to have any clear image of her. And since she is at the heart of this tale, The Jazz Bird falters as a result.<br />Unlike the exquisite The River Sorrow, this book does not show Holden at his best. And that is a pity, because he is a thoughtful and gifted writer whose previous efforts bear that out.	2002-01-12
US	52921362	R19VI9EMIL982M	0679453067	668170725	Pursuit: A Novel	Books	5	5	7	N	Y	Quite simply: Wonderful!	Thomas Perry is one of the rare writers who is always in control of his material. He writes with economy, with a fine ability to create a sense of place and to endow his characters with viable histories. He is also never tempted to write the heavy-handed, graphic sexual scenes that interrupt so many otherwise good novels. In Pursuit, which in theater parlance might be called a two-hander, he deals with the pithy issue of killing--from different sides of the fence. And he does it exceedingly well. James Varney is the ultimate narcissistic, amoral young killing machine. Roy Prescott is the dogged, older, seasoned and moral opposite. How Prescott pursues Varney, how Varney dodges and weaves, unraveling psychologically, then knitting himself back together, is the Pursuit of the title. But there's much more to this book than merely a chase. While we're offered only snippets of Prescott's history, what he is in the present tense is absolutely fascinating and the reader can't help but speculate on what factors might have contributed to making him such a meticulous, determined and farsighted planner. Varney is a compelling yet repugnant character, but so thoroughly fleshed that he is completely believable. <br />Perry continues to grow as a writer; he's never fallen victim to any sort of personal formula in his work and, as a result, his books are always a trip to some place where the reader has never been before. Pursuit is a prose pas de deux, perfectly executed, perfectly resolved.<br />Most highly recommended.	2002-01-08
US	52921362	R35JLP4T6LIYGD	031220504X	683685295	A Rock and a Hard Place	Books	3	2	3	N	Y	A good beginning	Here's the first book in a series with distinct possibilities: the black man who &quot;made good,&quot; graduated valedictorian at his high school, went on to get himself well educated and, ultimately, became the only black detective on the force in Deacon Beach. What is striking here is the insight into the sensibilities of being a qualified person of color in a racist environment. What is troubling is the depiction of Ramona Walker, much admired, much lusted-after owner of an enormously successful eating establishment and the person most responsible for Barrett &quot;Bear&quot; Raines's being hired by the local police department. Turns out Ramona had a secret, private life that was beyond sleazy and completely inexplicable.<br />When Ramona is found murdered and Bear's brother, Delton, is the prime suspect, all the ingredients are in place for both a close study of historical family dynamics as well as the bizarre secret life of Ramona. Both are, in the end, a little hard to buy. But along the way there are some good action scenes and a few scenes with Delton and Bear's twin sons that are beautifully executed.<br />That said, I just couldn't buy the turnabout ending. It just didn't play for me, in terms of what the author structured. Worth reading, and certainly an author worth following.	2002-01-01
US	52921362	RNP7O401M6TFC	0312252188	412473144	Dead Man's Bay	Books	2	2	4	N	Y	Doesn't make it	This second in the Barrett Raines series doesn't at all keep the promise of the first, A Rock and a Hard Place. There are so many things that go wrong with this book that it's difficult to know where to begin. However, first and foremost, Bear's opening state of deterioration at the beginning of Dead Man's Bay is pinned on his new job which mandates separation from his wife and sons. There's no mention at all of what should be a pivotal, essential point: the fate of his brother and Barrett's role in it. Instead, we have what was a proud, duty-driven man in the first book portrayed as a morning beer-guzzler, bemoaning the loss of his wife with almost no mention of his sons. He's a screw-up on the job with his French-Canadian partner, Cricket. Meanwhile, his wife has, in fairy-tale fashion, taken over the establishment owned by the murder victim in Rock and a Hard Place and has, seemingly effortlessly, made it a huge success.<br />So, along comes a case and a chance for Bear to redeem himself. From the outset, he deviates beyond the established character. All he sees, everywhere, are women with long, long legs; and all the women blush. He has little to no concept of sexual fidelity to the wife he is supposed to adore. He is a pawn in the classic &quot;look behind you&quot; mode of silly sleuthing, doing things no one with a shred of intelligence would do--like pursuing a suspect by boat in near-hurricane conditions.<br />Aside from the quantum holes in the plot there are weirdnesses in the editing that defy all the rules of grammar. Constantly, throughout both this book and the previous one, verb phrases that have nothing to do with speech are used. For example: &quot;Of course not,&quot; he smiled pleasantly. Smiling has never been a form of speech, nor are other examples like, &quot;Shee-it,&quot; Shark paused at the register; or, &quot;Passed your truck,&quot; the tall man shrugged. <br />There are also just plain mistakes. Mirella Freni is not an American opera singer; she's Italian, born and bred in Milan. Then he has Esther, an Irish-born character speaking on one page in truly archaic fashion: &quot;Ah. Aye,&quot; she said, to classic redneck on another page: &quot;You don't know... from Shinola!&quot; This latter expression is archaic in its own right, given that a woman of Esther's age being Irish-born and youngish wouldn't be aware of something that was common parlance in N. America in the 40s.  Esther speaks of &quout;gutting&quot; someone on one page, and on the next refers to British pounds as &quot;quid.&quot; At one point in the narrative, Barrett considers that Esther has lost her chutzpah. ??? How on earth did that Yiddishism get planted into the mind of a southern-born Black man? <br />In the end, the peculiar editing, the insertion of odd, literary adjectives, the eroded version of Barrett Raines, and a plot that's just not particularly compelling make for a disappointing book. I will, however, read Strawman's Hammock now, to see if Mr. Wimberley manages to get back on track.	2002-01-01
US	52921362	RGXOA0ALEWSXU	1573225487	127424363	The Romance Reader	Books	5	8	11	N	N	Claustrophobic and compelling	I had this book sitting in the to-be-read pile for a very long time. I don't know why. Perhaps the cover and/or the title led me to expect something very different than what the book actually delivers: a beautifully rendered portrait of a religious group wherein women are little more than programmed chattels. Rachel is a finely delineated character, wanting what is supposed to be beyond her grasp, wavering under intense family pressure, and ultimately succeeding in getting her feet planted on the road that leads both to personal freedom and to an understanding of the people who populate her immediate family.<br />It is a testament to Abraham's skill that the reader is with Rachel every hard-won step of the way; when she falters, we are anxious; when she wins a round, we're elated. The family is very real, the small daily dramas resonate across racial and religious lines. And every character comes to life as a result of Abraham's unaffected prose and her eye for the telling detail.<br />This is an exquisite and satisfying book, educational, too; pleasurable, painful reading, and highly recommended.	2001-12-25
US	52921362	R2TQCPJG9TA9VC	0375724370	924994086	Anil's Ghost: A Novel	Books	5	4	7	N	N	Rare Beauty	Ondaatje has, in Anil's Ghost, managed to convey the full horror and senselessness of civil war/genocide. Through all-too-human, vulnerable and flawed but deeply honorable characters, he takes us through the madness that has taken hold of Sri Lanka (but could be any other country riven by warring factions) and personalized it so that we get a clear and painful inside look at how people are destroyed, both physically and emotionally. His language is simple yet profoundly eloquent, spare (as only a poet can make it) and sharpened so finely that the overall effect is akin to a slim blade through the heart. For anyone who's ever wondered what it might be like to have your homeland eviscerated from the inside out, Anil's Ghost will supply all the answers. It's an exquisite, heartbreaking book. Most highly recommended.	2001-12-22
US	52921362	R3AXGG9C4O412Y	0393038025	818314744	RL's Dream	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Wonderfully touching	There are some writers whose talent is so special that you want to save their books and make the reading of them an occasion. Walter Mosley is one of those writers. He invests his characters with such depth, such full histories that you cannot help but care about them. RL's Dream is populated by a cast of such characters; even the most minor ones (including a baby) are fully fleshed and very real. Soupspoon and Kiki are two almost-lost souls who bring each other back to life in unexpected ways. It is a credit to Mosley's rare and splendid talent that the book itself resonates with music; its cadence is almost audible in the spare prose, the all-too-human behavior of people who, often, do things without even really knowing why. To comprehend the blues, to put words, literally, to a musical theme and to do so in a kind-hearted and deeply understanding fashion is to deliver magic in the form of a book. This is a &quot;must read&quot; novel.	2001-12-22
US	52921362	RXM6ZGKOXPTV	0312280033	747478119	The Cold Blue Blood: A Berger and Mitry Mystery (Berger and Mitry Mysteries)	Books	3	8	10	N	Y	Fifty-fifty	I really wanted The Cold Blue Blood to be the start of a great new series, because I was a big fan of the Stewart Hoag books. But while film critic Mitch Berger is a well-conceived character, unfortunately Desiree Mitry is simply not believable. The fault lies primarily in Handler's attempts to have Desiree sound like a black woman. It doesn't work and, sadly, she comes across sounding like an aging valley girl, repeating the word &quot;way&quot; w-a-y too often, calling other women &quot;girl&quot; regardless of their ages, and talking about her &quot;bootay&quot; (read that as butt.) As well, her reactions to Mitch seem more teenage than adult. And this is a shame, because the plot is not without merit and the other characters in the book are well-drawn and believable. Handler is a seasoned writer who knows how to retain control of his material, and how to move the narrative along at a good pace. As well, his descriptions of Connecticut are accurate and appealing; he captures very successfully the flavor of the state and its great social contradictions. But for this projected series to work, he's going to have to make Des more real, more human, and less of a caricature. I'll go for the next book in the series, in the hope that he can pull it off.	2001-12-13
US	52921362	R31Q76PB2H07YQ	0380800683	392967528	The Black Maria (Mystery of Old Philadelphia)	Books	5	10	11	N	Y	Wonderfully unique!	For once, here's a book that lived up to its good reviews. Graham's meticulous research, his use of the language (and spelling) of the times, places the reader firmly on site as we travel with detective Willton McCleary through the Centennial Exposition. The rendering of the site's splendors and its neighboring sleaze is so historically accurate and visual that we can almost smell the foods on offer and hear the swish of women's gowns; we watch the pickpockets, see the displays and gaze in wonder at the miracles of the era: the new type-writing machine, the telephone, and every conceivable type of contraption. Woven into the tour of this remarkable venue is a mystery so complex and twisted that the reader is lured into suspecting any number of people of being the savage killer McCleary is attempting to find. McCleary himself is a finely drawn character with secret sorrows and scars on his psyche; he has honor and integrity and is a most sympathetic character. The pacing picks up, gets to a gallop, then races toward an unexpected and oddly satisfying conclusion.<br />The author's note at the end of the book about Philadelphia's Centennial Exposition leaves one feeling (as I believe he hoped) with a sadness for how much of historical value has been lost through neglect or greed, and how important it is to preserve the remaining cultural remnants for future generations.<br />Very highly recommended!	2001-12-09
US	52921362	R72K5MOU4EMWO	0553801791	633668079	Watchers of Time (Inspector Ian Rutledge Mysteries)	Books	3	15	25	N	Y	Disappointing	It is notoriously difficult to maintain quality in series writing. Up to this point, the mother-son team that is Charles Todd has managed to produce four wonderful books featuring Ian Rutledge. Sadly, this time out, they've hit the wall. Unlike the previous stories which had splendid characters that nicely balanced Rutledge and Hamish, the ghost in his head, Watchers of Time has a large cast, but the focus is almost exclusively on Rutledgeso much so that Ian and Hamish become fairly tiresome. The narrative lacks drive and becomes perilously close to ponderous, as it lumbers along in pursuit of a plot that isn't sufficiently compelling to bear the weight of this narrow focus.<br />As well, there are a number of glaring errors: anachronisms and non-British expressions. The most inexcusable is the arcane use of Titanic, minus &quot;the.&quot; This is an affectation derived from James Cameron's film. In reality, people have always referred to ships as The Normandie, The Titanic, The Sylvania, etc. And this affectation of omitting a definite article inflicts a latter 20th century sensibility upon a book set in 1919. It's very jarring.<br />The expression &quot;Well met,&quot; used a number of times as a greeting is, in fact, a pre-Christian, Roman greeting and not one in common use in the early 20th century. There are sundry American words that glare: can rather than tin, and gotten--a word no English person would have used at that time (and rarely heard now.) The author(s) also speak of cancer which, in fact, only came into into common conversational use post WWII. Early in the century, people referred to &quot;the wasting sickness&quot; or other euphemisms for the disease.<br />Then there's the amazing fact of Rutledge driving constantly, almost nonstop, but never once fueling his motor car. This is an oversight of fairly amazing proportions, given how much of the character's interior processes and dialogues (with Hamish) take place in the car--where Hamish sits permanently in the back seat. <br />I will hope that the writing team will be back on track with the next book, offering more plot, more pacing, fewer lengthy ruminations, and more of the fascinating characters that populated the previous books.	2001-11-29
US	52921362	R1V0YBTC080JSP	0786865717	710576433	Hearse of a Different Color	Books	5	5	5	N	Y	Shaping up to be a great series	Tim Cockey writes gently amusing mysteries--not laugh out loud, make-your-sides-ache hilarious, but good-natured prose that makes you smile now and then. This second book in what I hope will be a long series, is as amiable as the first, wonderfully well-plotted, with good characters--particularly ex-wife Julia who's a uniquely believable creation.<br />Poor old Hitch can't resist the ladies, but, mercifully, the author is reserved in his renderings of Hitch's dalliances and doesn't subject the reader to a lot of tiresome descriptions of meshing body parts. He focuses instead on personality (the weathergirl Bonnie in this volume is especially well done, as is Hitch's Aunt Billie) and on attraction predicated on character rather than on pure sex appeal. In itself, this is refreshing. Combined with a true talent for quirky plotlines, the Hearse series is entertaining and, even better, satisfying. It is delightful to read a mystery where everyone is suspect, and it's impossible to predict who &quot;did&quot; it.<br />Most highly recommended.	2001-11-13
US	52921362	RWUMNZGASLY5C	0399147934	39092469	Closing Time	Books	3	6	9	N	Y	Promising	A lot of Big Names wrote glowing cover quotes for this book, and, having read it now, I have to wonder about that. While Manhattan is clearly defined in terms of setting (the smell of it, the light and dark of it, the viewings of every conceivable type of person), Closing Time gets off to a ponderous start; it's heavy going for a good 75 or 80 pages before the narrative gathers real momentum. The basic premise of a widower and his young daughter left somehow to move forward after the murder of their wife/mother, son/brother is a good one. But the letters Terry Orr writes to his dead wife stop the action cold and don't generate the intended sympathy for the hero. His late wife, Marina, was evidently without flaws. Terry never once remembers anything negative about the woman; his every recollection is a pastel portrait of a perfect marriage. It just doesn't ring true.  What's missing is the rueful recall of everything Orr might have done differently or changed; there's an absence of regret for past misunderstandings that renders Orr's loss less than real. Fortunately, the last 60-odd pages of the book are free of the somewhat cloying, confessional letters--and the reading is greatly improved as a result. <br />However, underlying the action is the pervasive sense of a Fugitive-like quest that will be the driving force of Terry Orr (should this be the first of a series): his search for the man responsible for the death of his wife and son. <br />There are some fine confrontational moments, some well-drawn characters (particularly daughter Bella), but Orr's intuitive sleuthing (his thought processes are not shared with the reader--there are sequential leaps that one must accept on faith) leaves one not especially satisfied. When, before I was two-thirds of the way through this one, my attention was already turning to the matter of which book to read next, the author hasn't succeeded in holding my interest.<br />Without question, Fusilli is talented. And since writing isa neverending course of on-the-job training, I'll certainly buy his next book in the hope that he offers more exposition and fewer letters to a dead wife.	2001-11-03
US	52921362	R5MVZIWZ4BRNA	0312969198	41453332	A Cold Day in Paradise: An Alex McKnight Novel (Alex McKnight Novels)	Books	5	34	37	N	Y	A Fine Beginning	This first of Steve Hamilton's Alex McKnight series is a tight, well-done book. There's great emotional truth to all the characters, and Hamilton exercises restraint in his hero's musings, as well as in the overall portrayal of a man haunted by his perceived failures. Nothing is predictable and all the characters are fully-drawn, particularly the mad and pathetic Rose. In one brief climactic confrontation between McKnight and Rose, the frustration and anger of a rational mind coming up hard against an irrational one has powerful resonance. Anyone who's ever tried to reason with someone unreasonable will sympathize with McKnight's helplessness and outrage at being unable to communicate on any &quot;normal&quot; level.<br />Filled with surprising twists, a lot of tension, and a splendid depiction of life in a cold zone, this is a well-crafted book with a likeable, very human cast. Highly recommended.	2001-10-27
US	52921362	R3LY9MSJW5WOML	0385335784	863793788	Black Water Transit	Books	5	9	10	N	Y	Just wonderful!	I don't know how I missed Stroud's first two books, but I couldn't be happier that I did find Black Water Transit. Stroud is an enormously gifted writer, with exceptional plotting skills, a fine gift for characterization, and a Damon Runyonesque sense of humor. It takes a lot to make me laugh, but some of the observations (placed in darker moments, which makes them all the more laudable) had me merrily, appreciatively chortling away. Nothing in this book is predictable; none of the characters are cliched, but are original and entirely memorable. There's not a wasted word; there's no unnecessary padding. The narrative takes off in high gear and never lets up for a moment. This is a book not to be missed! I'm now off to order Close Pursuit and Sniper's Moon.<BR>Most highly recommended.	2001-10-24
US	52921362	R9SLO6H8QMLUR	0345439007	573614386	All the Dead Were Strangers (Conrad Voort)	Books	3	3	3	N	Y	Some sizzle, not a lot of steak	The opening of this book is so confusing that I had to keep flipping back, trying to figure out who the two people were.  Once past the first few pages, until halfway through the book, there is good, strong plotting that moves along at a nice pace. As well, in backflash, there's a fine depiction of the childhood friendship of the two men that allows the reader to be saddened by the death of Meechum Keefe. Then, too soon, the &quot;protagonist&quot; is introduced. And while Szeska is, initially, a very interesting character, he gradually becomes a caricature of himself. The ensuing cat and mouse game has moments of interest, but what the author structured at the outset gets watered down (literally) in a damp conclusion that's not particularly suspenseful or satisfying. The one female character, again, starts out interesting: feisty and combative, but winds up as little more than a sexual vehicle; an annoying female who won't listen to what she's told, who shows up where she's not wanted and puts herself in danger. As if. Given her intelligence at the outset, it's close to impossible to accept the moves she makes. In other words, more than once the author moves people out of character.<br />There's w-a-y too much about Conrad Voort's genitaliaas if its state is indicative of the hero's emotional stateleading the reader to believe that Conrad doesn't know the difference between sexual attraction and caring. So when the romance part of the plot doesn't work out, it's not in the least surprising because, all along, it's been about Conrad's state of arousal or non-arousal. The story line would have been better served if the author had focused on the hero's emotions, rather than his body parts. Certainly, Black gets points for dealing with the issue of terrorism and about how vulnerable everyone and everything is. Given that the release of this book predates 9/11, it has a certain prophetic aspect that makes the subject matter particularly interesting.	2001-10-21
US	52921362	R3KE2B6BSEURVX	0399147489	702254891	Open Season (A Joe Pickett Novel)	Books	3	9	10	N	Y	A good beginning	Gee, maybe it's because I'm a downtown city-born person, or maybe I'm hypercritical, but this isn't (by my standards) a five star book. It's three and a half, to be sure. But any novel that has a wife saying to her husband, &quot;You're the last of your kind ... You have a good heart and your moral compass is a model of its kind ...&quot; is a novel that doesn't hit the bull's-eye. That bit of dialogue (in its extended version) is straight out of romance novels. It just doesn't ring true in what the author has structured. The reader's already got the message; having the wife deliver it greatly reduces the impact.<br />There are, though, a lot of things that do ring very true. The author's feel for the west comes through loud and clear; there are some fine descriptive passages that paint a very believable and clear portrait of a part of the world that, to many of us, is completely unknown.<br />I liked the secondary characters better than most of the primary ones. Joe Pinkett's mother-in-law, Missy, for one, comes across as horribly real. Joe's little girl Lucy, who scarcely appears, is consistently more believable than Sheridan, the older daughter, who drifts in and out of believability. Sheriff Barnum is a quirky, unpredictable, well-developed character; yet the villains of the piece are fairly transparent from the outset. Joe Pickett is something of a twerp who redeems himself in the final few chapters of the book. And those final chapters work very well, with nice tight narrative drive and some unexpected actions by the hero who becomes, all at once, fully dimensional.<br />C. J. Box has talent. There's no doubt about that. Open Season is well-paced and lean. I'll buy his next book in the hope that he continues to grow, while resisting the temptation to have his characters speak improbable lines.	2001-10-16
US	52921362	R2MTV1D2017AF2	0553801325	645616042	Critical Space	Books	5	3	3	N	Y	Better and better	Each one of Rucka's books featuring Atticus Kodiak is better than the one before. Here is a writer with complete control of his material, with great feeling for his characters (who are never cartoonish or less than very real) and with impeccable narrative timing. Rucka is also fearless in the risks he takes with his core characters, revealing them by degrees in each successive book. He's one of the few male authors who writes about women with insight and respect, never using them merely as vehicles to move the plot forward but rather as complex and conflicted beings who are integral to both the story and to Kodiak. What I particularly liked about Critical Space is the core thesis that everything changes--even the fundamentals of one's personal value system--and that no relationship is a given. To that end, the reintroduction of Drama, the remarkable assassin, is a singular accomplishment. Not only does this woman become comprehensible, she also becomes very human, even lovable. The author never goes where the reader expects; Rucka's plotting skills are superb. The narrative takes on a breathtaking pace as it moves toward the conclusion, and even at the close, he resists the feel-good wrap-up, opting instead to leave the reader wondering where the next Kodiak tale will lead. This is a thoughtful, intelligent, understated and utterly compelling book. Most highly recommended.	2001-10-16
US	52921362	R1S0HL5LX5FQ4J	0715630180	586465735	Layer Cake	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Fast, furious and funny	This first novel gets off to a zippy start and never lets up for a moment; with devious twists and turns, a cast of great (often mercurial, sometimes downright psycho) characters, and a whole lot of detail about the drug scene in England (which may or may not be accurate but certainly comes across with authenticity). Most North Americans, however, will find it difficult to comprehend, as Cockney rhyming slang and slang in general comprise so much of the book. That said, within its own context, there's an almost musical perfection to the cadence of the writing--especially the dialogue. The editing, however, leaves a great deal to be desired. There are far too many errors in maintaining spelling consistency and in simple grammar. But once into Layer Cake, it's one of those books that's all but impossible to put down. Most highly recommended.	2001-10-10
US	52921362	R1QYDU1935NMF9	0786889624	243700920	The Hearse You Came in On (Hitchcock Sewell Mysteries)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Most enjoyable	Effortless, good-humored prose; well-developed, quirky characters; and a malodorous whiff of politics make for a very entertaining book. I've already bought Hearse of a Different Color and look forward to more of Cockey's tales in the life of a young undertaker. Highly recommended.	2001-10-09
US	52921362	R32SASFN7U2JDD	0425167321	832459458	Cracked Earth (Jack Liffey Mystery)	Books	5	9	11	N	N	The view from the epicenter	Shannon's Jack Liffey is an extraordinary creation. This is the third of the four books in the series that I've read (I'm saving the fourth one as a treat for a gray day) and I'm coming to know Liffey as a classically conflicted fellow who likes women a little too much, who hates little rat-like dogs but treasures children (even respects them) and whose view of the Los Angeles lifescape is apocalyptic. Liffey is an unlikely, even reluctant hero who does the right thing because it's the only way he knows how to proceed. His dealings with young people demonstrate great sympathy for their posturings, their inner turmoil, their desire for independence and status, and for their fears. <br />His search for film star Lori Bright's daughter has him crossing paths with some truly fascinating characters: the Jamaican, Terror, who has a use for ginger beer that I will remember every time I open a bottle for the rest of my life; the computer geeks, both abled and disabled, who snake through the bowels of cyberspace in a state of glee; and the everpresent Marlena whose love is a warm, swampy place where Liffey periodically seeks comfort.<br />The world of Los Angeles, according to Liffey, is in perpetual chaos. Each book in the series shows random acts of natural or human mayhem (a man painted purple being taken into custody); shocks and aftershocks heaving cars and their passengers into terror and states of diminishing reason. The metaphor, in Shannon's hands, is a powerful tool. His books are never merely sequential, connect-the-dots mysteries but are broader, larger comments on how people have come to accept the bizarre as the norm. Shannon is the philosopher king of the mystery forum. And long may he reign.	2001-09-30
US	52921362	REFAY68QHJ81	096788330X	361208392	Duncan Delaney and the Cadillac of Doom	Books	4	6	15	N	Y	Charming	There are books that define categorization, and this is one of them. I bought it based on the recommendation of someone who had read a few of my reviews. Not something I'd normally do, but when I looked at what people had to say about the book, I thought I'd give it a try. I'm definitely not sorry I did. This is a charming, picaresque little novel with a dark subtext that's dealt with deftly and without undue stress. The characterizations are delightful and well done; the narrative zips along like a smart compact car. The only reason I've given Duncan Delaney four stars instead of five is because of the weirdness of the editing that, in places, actually alters the meaning of what is being said. Compound nouns are strangely split into two words: i.e. run away, instead of runaway. Normally hyphenated expressions are left without the hyphens. There are way too many quirks of editing (or non editing) that detract from what would otherwise have been an entirely pleasurable reading experience. That said, I heartily recommend the book. It says a lot without overstating matters.	2001-09-27
US	52921362	RM6MF2HMN6RD6	0670894656	774467190	The Huntsman	Books	3	20	25	N	Y	Could have been better	Before writing this review, out of curiosity I read all the posted reviews and noted with interest that they'd all been written by men. Perhaps that's why they rated this book so highly. Certainly, it was a starred advance advance review in Publishers Weekly that prompted me to buy the book in the first place. I cannot, however, heap lavish praise on this book because I found it flawed in many ways.<br />I don't know why so many men &quot;discover&quot; incest as a theme and choose to use it as the central issue in their books when their comprehension of the crime and its effects appears to be grievously narrow and limited. But yet again we have in The Huntsman an incest theme that skirts close to some truths but never scores a direct bull's-eye. There is a lack of genuine insight into Clarissa Sayers's mindset as a victim/participant in a sexual relationship with her father, and her motivation is never clearly defined. As well, she's made to seem a willing partner in the incest and that just doesn't ring true at all.<br />The author does a far better job of defining Booker Short, the young black man who is seeking whatever form of compensation, be it moral or financial, for an historical wrong he's been led to believe was committed by Mercury Chapman--the elderly man at the heart of this story who, to my mind, is the best-developed, most sympathetic character in the book. Of all the characters who appear, Mercury is the moral core, the one true soul in a sea of so many who range from slightly so, to entirely corrupt.<br />The beginning of the book is slow and ungainly, even confusing. When the narrative shifts its focus to Booker, suddenly there is insight and motion and the plot begins to flow. But with the constant shifts in focus, the book loses its drive; as well, it is overladen with ponderous, even arcane, adjectives that merely slow things down. Also the names of many of the characters (perhaps intended to be Dickensian in their reflection back upon the people who bear these ill-contrived names) is at times silly. There's Batson Putz, Sheriff Wade Crapple, and an elderly woman named Mrs. Snifter in the country club's bar. Buried beneath the heavy overusage of adjectives and shifting focus and foolish names are the strands of some profound truths--most especially how the repeated telling of what Booker's grandfather relates as a war-time travesty of justice drives Booker to seek out old Mercury Chapman in the first place, seeking some form of delayed recompense. The revelation that what Booker has been told is at a considerable remove from the truth is a long time coming but very powerful, in a book that is, essentially, about lies and deceit and social inequities. And this could have been a better, stronger book had the author resisted the lure of the thesaurus and delivered his narrative in simpler, more direct terms.<br />Terrell is a talented writer, and I will buy his next book in the hope that he will have worked past the excesses and misconceptions that mar this work.	2001-09-24
US	52921362	R3PWHJK8WI5EAY	0963905058	884769548	The Concrete River: A Jack Liffey Mystery (John Brown Books)	Books	5	21	24	N	N	Brilliant!	There are writers in various genres (mystery, romance, westerns, etc.) and then there are Writers; they're the gifted people whose genre is scarcely relevant because their work always rises above the territory upon which they've staked their claim. John Shannon is a Writer.<br />This first of Shannon's Jack Liffey series is a work of lean, effective prose, spiced with startling dashes of outrageous humor (as was The Orange Curtain, my introduction to Shannon's work). Los Angeles, as portrayed through Liffey's eyes, is a series on ongoing atrocities and carnage that are so everyday as to be normal. Add to this mix a character with a tired, yet invincible, spirit who observes and accepts (but doesn't like) what he sees, and you have a hero unlike any other. <br />Liffy is the essential American of a certain age, (and a Viet Nam vet) possessed of heart and conscience, trying very hard to be honorable while he searches for missing children (in itself a profound metaphor for the lost innocence not only of the city, but of our entire society.)<br />It is a sad fact that talent is not its own reward; it does not guarantee success. But if anyone writing today deserves recognition on a large scale, it is John Shannon. His work is both insightful social commentary and an unflinching, wrenching look at the human heart. If you want to be entertained and informed, get this book! Go to out-of-print booksites if you must, or search your local library, but this is a writer who very much deserves to be widely read.	2001-09-10
US	52921362	R29F5O7KPVKF6S	0375725784	381316770	A Heartbreaking Work of Staggering Genius	Books	3	9	10	N	N	Clever sometimes, genius ... well, no	I give big points to Eggers for taking great and wonderful liberties with the traditional format of the autobiography. He inserts himself into unlikely places like the copyright page, kicks tradition in the spine with his Rules and Suggestions for Enjoyment of This Book, and gallops along at a good pace for about 200 pages. There is a lot of truth and horror in the scenes leading up to the death of his parents; as well, there is a universal, inarguable truth to the fear he expresses for his little brother Toph when, for example, Dave has a sitter in to look after the boy in order to have a night out with his friends. The perennial fear that the sitter might be putting your kid in the microwave or doing something equally bizarre and horrible is a very real fear that most parents have had at some point.<br />But then the prose maunders along and falls into a trough with the \\"imagined\\" interview with MTV and stays there, seemingly, forever. From that point on, the book just becomes harder and harder to read, filled as it is with something perilously close to self-indulgence. Some judicious editing (which, perhaps, the author fought off) might have resulted in a better book. But patently that fact is irrelevant, given the enormous success of the book. And it's often hard to take issue with success, it is, often, its own reward; regardless of how flawed the work might be.<br />I would recommend this overlong book only for those with limitless patience. It becomes, finally, an effort in determination just to get through it. After all the media coverage, I had expected more, but got less than I had hoped for.	2001-09-07
US	52921362	R291FJNPGPGRXD	0062737554	880032179	The Film Encyclopedia, 4th Edition: The Most Comprehensive Encyclopedia of World Cinema in a Single Volume	Books	5	15	16	N	Y	The single best book of its kind, ever!	Since its original publication, I have used this book both as a movie lover and as a writer. As a movie lover, it's a never-failing source of obscure information. Can't remember the name of the movie, and only remember its star? You'll find the answer here. Want to know what a grip does? Looking to discover how many films were made by Howard Hawks or Howard Hughes? What's a dolly? What's a key light? The answers to some of the most obscure questions about moviemaking reside in this brilliant compilation of facts about films and the people who make them--everyone from the best boy to the stars. As a research resource, it's invaluable. To satisfy that nagging question about some film you saw with James Cagney, get the Film Encyclopedia. Next to the Cinebooks Library, this is the single most important book to own. Nothing before it and nothing after it will ever contain a similar wealth of information. This is a must-have volume.	2001-09-05
US	52921362	RVGF5OYMXLBAW	0385495854	323396054	Hostage: A Novel	Books	3	13	22	N	Y	Not up to standard	I've been reading Crais since his first book, and I've been a big fan of his work. Demolition Angel was a fine book. By any yardstick, Hostage does not show Crais at his best. And I can only hope that the success of this book will prompt readers new to his work to read the early ones in order to see what the author can do when he really puts everything he's got into a book. Hostage suffers from overplotting and undercharacterization. There are so many bad guys, and so many cops, that they swarm the book like an anthill and one almost needs a playbill to keep track of everyone. Particularly bothersome is the depiction of young Thomas from his older sister's point of view--as a weird, even twisted fat boy with some serious peculiarities. Because Crais doesn't offer us any other viewpoint of this child, when he suddenly becomes this clever, imaginative child slithering through the crawlspaces of the house like one of Harry Potter's friends, it's very hard for the reader to believe that this is the same child who, at the outset, was ascribed creepy, voyeuristic tendencies that go far beyond the normal range of an older sister's disgust. Sometimes a writer will fall hostage to an idea and run with it, which is fine. But when a writer relies on technical ability to get from point A to point Z without taking the time to go back carefully over the work and invest the characters with depth, what results is less than the best. Yes, the narrative gallops along. But the hostage-takers are disposed of w-a-y too easily; the characters of Marion and Mars are not believable. Neither one of them is fully fleshed, neither one of them behaves in any viable fashion, even for psychopaths. So what you have here is a thin broth with too many killers, one too-good guy (it's easy to see Bruce or Mel grabbing an option on this book for their next big bucks action flick) and a sense of disappointment at the end because so much has been promised, but nowhere near enough has been delivered. I will buy Crais' next book in the hope that he's back on form and writing whole-heartedly, with insight and conviction, as he has so many times before.	2001-08-25
US	52921362	R8USDJF7PLFQN	0399147357	486821945	Dead Sleep	Books	4	3	3	N	Y	... could've been a contender	This book received such glowing advance reviews that I just had to buy it. And for at least three quarters of it, I was absolutely rivetted. Iles carries off writing as a woman in the present tense, both of which are tricky at the best of times. The narrative races along like a bullet train, as the heroine, Jordan Glass, participates with the FBI in tracking down the serial killer who has taken the lives of eleven women--one of them Jordan's twin sister. Good stuff, and good characterizations; splendid dialogue that carries much of the plot. But then ... sadly, the climax of the book relies upon a widely discredited syndrome. And therein lies the problem. Had Iles chosen to use almost any other rationale for the killer, I'd have happily bought into the conclusion--as most readers will who are unfamiliar with the fads and syndromes that make up the fundamentals of what's come to be known as &quot;bad therapy.&quot; I was impressed by the author's writing skill, but simply couldn't buy into the ending--which is a pity, because up to that point I was with him all the way.	2001-08-20
US	52921362	R2WO9EQ79NZ425	0727856723	796592527	Perils and Dangers	Books	2	0	1	N	Y	A big disappointment	I've been a Peter Turnbull fan for many years. Sadly, the past few books haven't been up to the standard he set with Deep and Crisp and Even, or Long Day Monday. With Perils and Dangers, Turnbull has turned to what is almost a &quot;cosy&quot; -- one of those little mysteries that are light both in weight and substance. The writing here is far removed from the intense, powerful Ray Sussock P. Division novels. And the book isn't helped by inferior editing (the constant misplacing of commas, for example) that actually alters what the author was trying to say. As well, this book has one of the nastiest covers I've ever seen, and removing the dust jacket is no remedy because this is a casebound book--which means that the art is part of the cover itself.<br />Sadly, I couldn't possibly recommend this book. But I would, with great enthusiasm, suggest readers new to Turnbull go to the early books in order to enjoy what was a really fine, fairly peerless series.	2001-08-13
US	52921362	R2O2YY4AO6VTQN	0375505016	195458576	Hollowpoint: A Novel	Books	5	5	9	N	N	Exceptional!	Here is one of those rare, utterly authentic books that could only have been written by someone who's experienced the raw, unpretty aspects of the life it depicts. In Hollowpoint, first-novelist Reuland (and in real life, senior DA in Brooklyn) gives us two very distinctive views of grief, as well as offering a plotline that snakes in on itself in endless coils. It's a book about pain, about guilt, and about sorrow. It contains some of the finest, most authentic dialogue I've ever read and depicts some of the most believable characters to be found anywhere. This is not easy reading, but it's a book that's impossible to put down. Sadly humorous, poignant, and wrenching. Most highly recommended.	2001-08-08
US	52921362	R2NXPFNTT2UIR2	0743203321	229095796	Dark Hollow	Books	5	18	19	N	Y	Chiller!	Connolly's books are a kind of hybrid: the mystery/horror novel. Every Dead Thing's hero, Charlie Parker, returns in Dark Hollow in pursuit once again of a singular force of death and destruction (with a few peripherhal malevalent forces to be dealt with, as well). Charlie &quot;Bird&quot; Parker, who has nothing whatever to do with his musician namesake, is the adult equivalent of the child in The Sixth Sense (he sees dead people.) It is to the author's credit that the reader is able to take this seriously, primarily because of the oddly lyrical descriptions of the horrors that face the hero at almost every turn. Connolly's continuing theme is of lives and loves lost to horrific violence, and in Dark Hollow he takes us on a wretchedly cold trip through the upper reaches of Maine, in pursuit of Caleb Kyle who may or may not be the mythical, local equivalent of the bogeyman.<br />With the help of his two wonderfully well-conceived sidekicks, Louis and Angel, Bird sets out to accomplish several tasks: to find the missing daughter of a former police officer friend, to locate the missing Billy Purdue (and the millions in payoff money he may have intercepted with the result that quite a number of villains are on his trail), and to find the killer of Billy's estranged wife and son. There are many killings, all linked in some way or another to Caleb Kyle.<br />This is compulsive reading, highly recommended for those not faint of heart.	2001-08-05
US	52921362	RJIR3ZJKNG280	0312957882	325317843	The Edge Of The City (Det. Brian McKenna Novels)	Books	4	3	4	N	Y	More good stuff	This second of Dan Mahoney's series is as compellingly readable as the first, continuing former cop Brian McKenna's battle against the Peruvian terrorist group Sendero. All McKenna's Manhattan cop buddies are back in play. And this time, the reader gets to &quot;watch&quot; as the city is held hostage to the terrorists, with bridges blown up, Staten Island ferries commandeered by the bad guys, and general havoc wreaked on the city. McKenna's wife, Angelita, is a complete pain in the butt and I'm anxious to see if the marriage lasts in the subsequent books. (I hope not; she's beyond unlovable--while McKenna is a great hero figure.) Happily, there are several more in the series waiting for me to read. Highly recommended.	2001-08-05
US	52921362	R16P348NDKF25A	0743204832	995472619	Bitterroot	Books	3	1	3	N	Y	Not this time	When he's on target, Burke is a peerless writer. When he's off-center, the work is tiresome. Sadly, Bitterroot is off-center. There are several wonderful secondary characters: Sherriff Cain is a fine blend of wearied intelligence and sorely tried patience; Wyatt Dixon is a most interesting bad guy, particularly in his florid use of language and his penchant for peculiar clothing; and Terry Witherspoon comes across as a well-rounded, sometimes even sympathetically bewildered young villain.<br />However, this book has violence to spare. As well, Billy Bob, the hero, seems congenitally unable to keep his fly zipped, which gets truly tedious. And absolutely everyone is at risk from an endless roster of crazies, skinheads, just plain criminal types, and even FBI agents. By the end, the characters seem to have learned little, if anything. Billy Bob's hearing/seeing his dead former partner started as an interesting, even viable device. In Bitterroot the visions and words of this dead man serve no purpose.<br />Burke always writes well; his descriptions of Montana are beautiful. But he's populated the place with such a cast of no-goods that I doubt I'd want to go there.<br />For a prime example of Burke at his best, I'd suggest reading Purple Cane Road. This book is disappointing.	2001-07-29
US	52921362	R3T9DY0UPJEG0T	0399147268	32851163	Echo Burning (Jack Reacher, No. 5)	Books	4	0	1	N	Y	Compulsive reading	Think of Gary Cooper playing a taciturn Lone Ranger (minus the mask) and you've got Jack Reacher. I have enjoyed the series immensely. All the books are very readable, with the consistent narrative drive of an Indy 500 racecar. A little suspension of disbelief is invariably required, but the plotting is always tight (if somewhat telegraphed now and then) and the characters come to life effectively. Echo Burning is a tale that turns on lies, more lies, and damned lies. It works surprisingly well. Particularly appealing is the idea of a man who has no more possessions than the clothes on his back and a folding toothbrush, traveling without destination, getting into one hairy situation after another. This is a good book, entertaining, told at a breakneck pace. I just had a tiny problem with the ending which might well have had a final line that read, &quot;Who was that masked man?&quot;<br />Particularly commendable is Child's mastery of the American idiom. Few British-born authors can write a US-based book without dropping a few clunkers here and there. But Child never falters. He's got the landscape, the dialogue, and the temperature down perfectly.<br />Enormously readable, highly recommended.	2001-07-27
US	52921362	R34K2K8VGWQIT0	0385335555	718492514	Tell No One	Books	5	1	2	N	Y	A breathtaking ride!	Okay, I confess. I love Harlan Coben. I've read every book he's written and he just gets better and better. It's a brave author who'll break from a winning seriesDennis LeHane did it recently, brilliantlyand Coben does it in Tell No one with great success.<br />This tale of a doctor still grieving the murder of his wife eight years after the fact takes off from the blocks at a gallop and never lets up for a moment. The writing is simple and effective, with moments of sweet humor; the plot is sinuously complex and ultimately most satisfying.<br />Harlan Coben is getting the recognition now he so richly deserves. This is a terrific book; highly recommended.	2001-07-25
US	52921362	R3D58DXRX6RNWH	0375500227	667356839	Facing the Wind: A True Story of Tragedy and Reconciliation	Books	5	6	6	N	Y	Deeply thought-provoking	Julie Salamon is a fine journalist. The Devil's Candy is one of the best behind-the-scenes books ever written about Hollywood movie-making. She has the rare ability to observe and narrate the details of what is happening without ever intruding upon the facts by pushing her personal opinions at the reader. That is also true of this highly affecting tale, even though Salamon herself is actually involved in the final portion of the book.   <br />I found Facing The Wind fascinating but heavy-going. I don't think there was any other possible way for the author to get the story told, and to compel us to consider the horror inherent in knowing a man who, in the depths of emotional anguish and extreme mental turmoil, killed his family. In examining this &quot;life after death,&quot; Salamon puts a positively biblical dilemma on the table for us to consider: Does a man who takes the lives of his family while mentally ill have the right to a &quot;second&quot; life upon returning to a sane state? Does he have the right to practise law? And how/why does a young woman not only marry this man but live with the truth of what he's done? <br />The first section, dealing with the parents of blind and/or disabled children is informative, harrowing and inspiring; everyone comes fully to life, which is why the second and third parts of the book work so well: because we've been fully introduced to all the people and their children. We've also had a crash course in the monstrous difficulties encountered as the parent(s) of disabled children.<br />This is a book that will have you debating with yourself for hours, even days after you've finished. It is a very important book, not only because it offers in-depth insight into just how hard it is to be one of those parents, but also because it helps put &quot;normal&quot; parenting into a different perspective--just possibly making us feel that much luckier at having &quot;whole&quot; children.<br />Most highly recommended.	2001-07-13
US	52921362	RRQ2JSE7CB1AT	0892967048	727646325	The Bottoms	Books	4	1	2	N	Y	Echoes of several pasts	I'm a long-time reader of Joe Lansdale, and I like his work. That said, throughout the reading of this compelling novel, I simply could not stop seeing the similarities (perhaps inevitable) between The Bottoms and To Kill A Mockingbird. At the baseline, this tale of a young brother and sister in East Texas with an unwilling hero father is so very close thematically to Mockingbird that I kept sliding over into recall of that book throughout my reading of this one.<br />There is, according to Isaiah, nothing new under the sun. That is true, particularly in fiction. There are few themes that haven't been addressed. The theme of The Bottoms has, indeed, been addressed before. That is not to say that Lansdale doesn't do a splendid job with the material. The characters, the setting, the sense of time and place are all very well done. The device of having the narrator, an elderly man in a nursing home at the end of his life, relating events from many decades before is used to very good effect. But The Goatman too strongly reminded me of the silent Boo Radley; their roles were almost identical. And while the father in The Bottoms is a constable and not an attorney, they nevertheless both possess very similar qualities in terms of their fundamental belief in equality and fairness.<br />It is a good book, with great narrative drive, and difficult to put down. But I was, none the less, left with a strong sense of deja vu when I got to the end. It is a most worthwhile book, even a brave one, and I recommend it as an example of good writing.	2001-07-07
US	52921362	R2O9P0K6QK6Y9I	078670876X	95886759	The Orange Curtain: A Jack Liffey Mystery	Books	5	8	8	N	Y	Wow!	The Orange Curtain was my introduction to John Shannon. I am now going to read the previous titles. Here is a writer with remarkable skills, both in narrative and in characterization. As well, his hero Jack Liffey is a man of such thoughtful intelligence that he stands well above the usual macho-jock types who play leading roles in so many series. The creation of Billy Gudger is something rare: a fully rounded view of loneliness personified and of how cruelty and isolation can shape a killer. Unlike the two-dimensional bad guys with incoherent rationales who kill people from some warped sense of personal satisfaction, Shannon has, in Gudger, drawn a portrait of a sad, even forgivable, young man with no social skills, and a deep and terrible thirst for knowledge and for friendship. It is to the author's credit that the exchanges between Liffey and Gudger are sadly revealing of the souls of both men; and the final section of the book is a fine example of how tension can be tightened, then tightened some more, then more, before something finally snaps.<br />Here is an author to watch; he is an extraordinary writer, with insight, wisdom, and great feeling for his characters.	2001-06-30
US	52921362	R1X18X5HS6HJJH	0316592382	617523773	Fearless Jones (Fearless Jones Novel, No.1)	Books	4	2	3	N	Y	Good but not great	I like Walter Mosley's writing; it's never mean-spirited, and it invariably provides a great sense of time and place. Fearless Jones is an entertaining book; Fearless and Paris are well-conceived characters as are all the secondary characters; the plot is dizzingly convoluted; it's well worth reading. It is not, however, an example of his best work; definitely not on the same level as the powerfully affecting Socrates Fortlow books. That said, aside from a few minor anachronisms (mouth-to-mouth resuscitation and the concept of community service were not practised in the1950s) I have no qualms about recommending this book.	2001-06-26
US	52921362	R1XF0T6N6QVLVU	1865083348	300291221	The Shape of Snakes	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Clever and compelling	Without question, this is Walters' best book since The Sculptress. The Shape of Snakes has perfectly drawn (some vicious and unpleasant, some unexpectedly touching) characters; a plot that is the ultimate in sinuous complexitymade moreso by various pieces of correspondence (and even photographs) carefully intercut throughout the bookand not an ounce of excess fat anywhere. &quot;Food for thought&quot; doesn't begin to convey the depth of the messages contained in this book: about women, about racism, about ownershipbe it of people, property, or things.  Intelligent, adult, truthful, and perceptive; I cannot praise this book enough. It is flawless. Most highly recommended.	2001-06-23
US	52921362	R2CRJKIQNIQM5P	0399147195	469684331	P is for Peril : A Kinsey Millhone Mystery	Books	5	17	24	N	Y	Grafton at her best	I confess to having sneaked a peek at what some of the disgruntled readers had to say about this book. And it never fails to amaze me how angry people get when an author requires a reader to use his/her imagination (based on what's been presented) and work out the answers. Books are intended to challenge and pique the mind, not to act as soporifics--with everything presented neatly tied up and gift-wrapped. P is for Peril does precisely that: it offers all the evidence and then leaves the reader to arrive at the only possible conclusion.<br />I've been a Kinsey fan since book A; some of the entries in this alphabet series have been weaker than others. But Grafton always writes well, with humor and superior plotting skills. This is a grown-up book from a grown-up author who has yet to rely on formulaic writing, but rather brings something fresh to each new &quot;letter.&quot; And P is just great; it's got wonderful characters, lots of humor, and enough red herrings to make a sizeable platter at a buffet.<br />Most highly recommended.	2001-06-16
US	52921362	RRLCGOLY3B2SV	0312268947	955957073	The Hunting Wind: An Alex McKnight Mystery (Alex McKnight Mysteries (Hardcover)) (Alex McKnight Novels)	Books	5	25	27	N	Y	Terrific!	The Hunting Wind was my introduction to Steve Hamilton and, wow, what a wonderful introduction! Here is a man who writes with humor, with assurance, and with plotting skills that are right up there with the best of the best; certainly a fine, convoluted, narrative Ross Macdonald would have been proud to have written. Alex McKnight is a weary, highly believable (and very human) former cop who once had a brief-lived baseball career. It is this former career that brings Randy Wilkins, the left-handed one-time pitcher, back into his life after thirty years. Randy is a charming chatterbox who, in many ways, is still the very young man who had a shot at the big time and blew it in the first inning of his one and only major league game. And it is Randy's desire to track down Maria, the love of his young life, that takes the two men on a journey so labyrinthine that much of the state of Michigan is traversed in pursuit of the woman. Along the way the two men encounter some of the most intriguing and eccentric characters ever to appear in print--most notably the exquisitely drawn Maria and the strangely touching Chief Rudiger.<br />Before writing this review I ordered Hamilton's two previous books, and I will certainly buy anything else he writes. Here is an author with enormous talent who deserves all the kudos and a wide audience.	2001-06-11
US	52921362	RUB5ZZM97KLS3	0553801155	860965804	Beyond Belief	Books	3	3	4	N	Y	Disappointing	Johansen's first book, The Answer Man, was just terrific. So I pre-ordered Beyond Belief and the more I read, the more  increasingly dismayed I became. The author starts out with a swell premise: a hero who's a debunker (along the lines of the Great Randi)-a former magician now a cop, asked to assist in solving the bizarre death of a parasychologist. There are some good characters, particularly little Jesse (who may or may not have paranormal powers) and his down-to-earth, very believable mother. Our hero, Joe Bailey, (also known as The Spirit Basher) has some good moments when he tries to find the hidden causes behind the accidents that suddenly begin threatening his life. Up to the halfway point, there's a lot of potential here. The second half, unfortunately, is so chock-a-block with bad guys that the book's believability drains away. It's a pity, because Johansen's a good writer; he doesn't go in for unnecessary gore or a lot of fussy set dressing. But this tale really does suffer from too many villains and, as a result, slides almost into Monty Python territory. (&quot;Villain? Yes? To the right, please. Villain? Yes? To the right, please.&quot;) By the time the grand poobah of bad guys was introduced, I actually laughed.<br />To see what Roy Johansen can _really_ do, read The Answer Man. With luck, his next book will see him back on form again, exercising a little judicious, authorial restraint.	2001-06-09
US	52921362	R2CGMELDV5FROT	0380977249	211102990	Fury: A Novel	Books	5	4	4	N	Y	Splendid entertainment	I love the Leo Waterman series. That said, it's often very difficult for a writer to break away to begin a new series. Difficult but in many cases a wise decision. Series writing is exceedingly difficult, in no small part because it's hard to maintain authorial interest in characters you've come to know--sometimes too well.<br />So this first of the new Frank Corso series is not only a good move on Ford's part, it's a particularly fine move. Corso is a fine creation, principled, funny, reticent, intelligent and dogged. When paired up with Meg Doughery, one of the most refreshingly engaging women to appear in print in recent times, these two make for splendid entertainment.<br />There is a good, solid story here, with multiple viewpoints all offered in a fashion that never detracts from the plot; the characters-both primary and secondary-are all fully developed and completely believable; there is much humor and a satisfying conclusion. This is a fine effort and I'll be waiting eagerly for the next Frank Corso book. Top marks and highly recommended.	2001-06-07
US	52921362	R2IMMG0DBJV62J	0743212665	841215498	Unfinished Business: A Munch Mancini Crime Novel (Munch Mancini Novels)	Books	5	7	7	N	Y	The Munchkin just gets better and better	From the outset (No Human Involved) Barbara Seranella has delivered consistently splendid books, populated by completely believable, affectingly human characters. Munch Mancini is a wonderfully unique creation, a haunted yet determined young woman who refuses, ever, to play victim to the ghosts of her past. What is particularly gratifying in this series is that we get to see Munch grow very believably through time. With her street-smart philosphy and innate survival skills, her heart and her humor, she is unlike any other heroine in any other series. Unfinished Business is heartfelt, good-humored, and intelligent. Writing with insight and authority, with seamless research, and such genuine caring for her characters that the reader, too, must care for them, Seranella deserves a place on the national best-seller lists.<br />My one small quibble is the anachronistic reference to carpal tunnel syndrome which, in the early 80s, was almost unheard-of--certainly it wasn't common at a time when computers were not occupying desk space in almost every home. That said, I can only applaud the author and wait eagerly for the next book.	2001-06-04
US	52921362	R3HR054IIL0URC	0375412557	257610007	Death in Holy Orders (Adam Dalgliesh Mystery Series #11)	Books	3	4	6	N	Y	Good but not as great as the earlier titles	I've been a fan of P. D. James's work for decades. She's written some astonishingly good books, a few that were clunky, and one attempt at science fiction that was scarcely readable. While she can still surprise the reader with an almost quintessentially British matter-of-factness about issues both psychological and sexual, in this book Adam Dalgleish has lost much of his heat and intensity, much of his unique (and romantic) appeal. If this were the first book for a new reader, they probably wouldn't find the Commander the compellingly charismatic figure he was in earlier books. Death In Holy Orders just isn't up to the remarkable level of The Skull Beneath The Skin (which doesn't feature Dalgleish at all) but which is one of the finest mysteries James (or anyone else)has ever written.<br />That said, her plotting skill is very much intact and I kept on reading, even though at times the material gets very dense indeed--to the extent that I was tempted to skip pages of details on the new versus the old Anglicanism. The setting is wonderfully realized, the secondary characters are well drawn and are, upon occasion, more interesting than the primary ones. The resolution is somewhat less than satisfying, and I found it hard to believe in the device (a letter) James uses at the denouement to tie everything together.<br />If you're new to James, I would suggest starting with the earlier books and working up to this one. You'll get a better understanding of Dalgleish and be, as a result, more sympathetic to his depiction and his actions in this book.	2001-06-02
US	52921362	RAVGIK75RZCP5	0385471467	264812391	The Richer, the Poorer	Books	5	16	17	N	N	It only looks easy	Would-be writers would do well to read this collection of seemingly simple stories and sketches. It takes great talent and understanding to write such effortless, fluid prose. Once you've read the short stories, the reminiscences are a fascinating reflection of how an author mines her own life experiences to create art. As well, this pioneer of black literature has painted historical mini-portraits of life for so many people -- some of whom were born to slavery and freed within the author's own lifetime. It's too easy to forget that not so very long ago, black people weren't even considered citizens, but merely property. This is a lovely book, a prime example of elegantly simple writing. Highly recommended.	2001-05-24
US	52921362	R2LTNU83EA9GOL	0767902815	628071425	Gob's Grief: A Novel	Books	4	18	18	N	Y	Dark and clever	Chris Adrian is a gifted, highly imaginative writer who takes the theme of grief and builds upon it by blending historical fact and actual people with a cast of intriguing, sometimes fascinating, characters. The Civil War details make for compelling reading and the first half of the book carries the reader along at a steady gallop. The second half, which delves into the backgrounds of many of the characters, is far slower in pacing and requires a committed interest on the part of the reader. The feel for time and place is wonderfully effective; the pervasive grief (of all the central characters) is almost overwhelming. But I found it tough going to get through to the end. This is a heavy book, on a heavy theme: the notion that the loss of beloved brothers could drive people to create a machine that would reverse the process and bring all the dead back to life. <br />Some of the characters in Gob's Grief are extraordinarily compelling creations, particularly the Urfeist, and Pickie Beecher. I recommend this book with the caveat that it is not for the faint of heart or those unwilling to suspend disbelief. Certainly, I'll be very interested to see what Chris Adrian does next. For a first novel, this is an impressive debut.	2001-05-20
US	52921362	R3Q6IUYNSM3X1C	0684871270	971468860	The Blue Nowhere : A Novel	Books	3	8	13	N	N	Slick and Quick #2	It is beginning to seem that Jeffery Deaver hit his peak with The Bone Collector, if The Blue Nowhere is any indication of where he's headed.<br />I really wanted to like this book; I've been a long-time fan. But The Blue Nowhere just doesn't have the intensity, the passion, the heart of Deaver's earlier books. It's possible that in the course of doing so much research to validate his thesis that none of us are safe from the stealthy probing fingers of hackers, crackers, whatever, the characterizations suffer terribly. A couple of the people come to life, but not nearly enough to keep one thoroughly engrossed. This is an entirely plot-driven book, eminently readable but only barely plausible. The pacing is certain and keeps one turning pages, but more from curiosity to see how he's going to pull it off rather than from any depth of caring for the characters.<br />Finally, the title is repeated so many times in the course of the book that it becomes like a long infomercial, where you want to say, &quot;Okay. I got it. I got it.&quot; Bottom line: all the research in the world cannot be a substitute for characters grounded in some kind of recognizable humanity. So the book whizzes along at the speed of downloaded data on the best cable connection anywhere. But at the end, it's hard to care about people who just aren't fully fleshed and rendered believably human.	2001-05-02
US	52921362	R3L4UH4TCYUQ15	0451195922	913109414	Skull Session	Books	5	6	6	N	Y	A league of his own	Daniel Hecht is a man of formidable talent and imagination. He tackles themes less courageous writers wouldn't dream of touching. I was quite simply blown away by Skull Session, rooted in place, desperate to find out what happened next and yet (as with any splendid book) deeply reluctant to have it end. Tourette's Syndrome has become rather a popular subject in recent years, but Daniel Hecht brought it forward, made it real and comprehensible. He is a fearless, powerfully gifted writer, and while this is not a book for the faint of heart, it is one for those who want something new and different and ferociously intelligent. I would not hesitate to buy anything this author writes, and his second effort, The Babel Effect, proved that Hecht will go on to produce more books of the highest calibre. He is one of the best new writers around today.	2001-04-28
US	52921362	R1UJQ9QPQKZP3L	0395628830	508766240	The New Well Tempered Sentence: A Punctuation Handbook for the Innocent, the Eager, and the Doomed	Books	5	14	15	N	N	Divine!	Since its publication, I have given literally several dozen copies of this splendid, amusingly informative book to friends, to fellow writers, to students, and to anyone with either a passion for language or problems with grammar. It is unique in its wonderfully Gothic approach to conveying the odd and sometimes illogical rules of English grammar. It is also just plain fun. Absolutely a must for anyone even the least bit confused about just where a semi-colon goes, or when to use serial commas. Along with the Rodale Synonym Finder and the Concise Oxford English Dictionary, this is a book that lives next to my desk--always. Top marks! There's absolutely nothing, anywhere, that comes near this charming, clever little language guide.	2001-04-28
US	52921362	R2MDI4PURAQCMJ	0786708387	810636083	Exile	Books	5	9	11	N	Y	Risky business	Denise Mina has embarked upon a series, featuring her most unlikely heroine, sexually abused and haunted by the experience, Maureen O'Donnell. Mina gets high marks for her depiction of a young woman battling her mental store of horrors; angry, confrontational and daring, Maureen hurls herself into everything: love, family relationships, encounters with strangers, even danger. Her recklessness is emblematic of those troubled by and driven by abusive pasts. And Mina is right on the money when it comes to detailing her endless doubts--about her friendships, her family, herself--and her forays into situations anyone less driven wouldn't approach for any amount of love or money.<br />Embarking with her best friend, Leslie (who is a rough-hewn gem in her own right, just as Maureen is in hers) on tracking down the missing battered-wife Ann Harris, the embattled friends travel over exceedingly rocky terrain. Some of Maureen's actions might defy credibility were it not for the solidly established foundation of her angry determination to right injustices and unfairness where she finds them.<br />When the search evolves into investigating the murder of Ann Harris, Maureen puts herself in the way of danger with fear that comes as an afterthought. This young woman is a fascinating study of contradictions: she is bold and brash, good-hearted, humorous and unstoppable. And in spite of the enormous potential for personal harm, Maureen prevails and unearths the truth.<br />Mina has great skill at characterization; it is her primary asset, along with her ability to give the reader a powerful sense of Glasgow--its often mean streets, its weather, its population, its often unexpected gallows humor.<br />This is a fine book, on the way to becoming a fine series. It's anything but light reading, but completely compelling.	2001-04-28
US	52921362	R1NSH167APALSN	0198602871	412898229	The Concise Oxford English Dictionary: Thumb Indexed	Books	5	10	11	N	N	The other most important book I own	Next to the Rodale Synonym Finder, I simply couldn't write without this dictionary. It offers both British and American spellings, and it's very complete in its offerings. Ninety-five percent of the time, I will find what I'm seeking, no matter how arcane. The big plus is its offering of quirky British words not found in North American dictionaries (although, I confess, I do have a supply of those for occasions when the word I'm seeking is just too American ever to find its way into the Concise Oxford English.) An essential tool for anyone writing, whether it be a letter, a student essay, or professional pieces. The best!	2001-04-28
US	52921362	R2BHV03KCP5KK	0312966644	690014835	No Colder Place: A Bill Smith/Lydia Chin Novel (Bill Smith/Lydia Chin Novels)	Books	5	12	13	N	Y	The Best of S. J. Rozan ... so far	No Colder Place was my introduction to S. J. Rozan's books (I have subsequently read all of her work), and it's a breathtakingly fine piece of writing. Of her two leading series characters, Bill is, by far, my favorite. This talented, clever, brooding, somewhat lovelorn man is a superb creation. Bill lives; he breathes audibly. When he sits down to his piano to learn a piece of music, you can almost hear the melancholy classical notes pouring into the atmosphere.<br />In this book, his undercover role as a bricklayer is so real that you can almost feel the ache in his spine and the soreness of his hands. It remains, to date, my favorite of Rozan's books. It has my highest recommendation. This is an author at top form, doing what she does best--giving us the wonderful Bill, deep in his element.	2001-04-28
US	52921362	R2OT1I3FI0GO1K	0446370290	497040564	The Synonym Finder	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Absolutely invaluable	Since the start of my writing career, I have relied on this book. It is, without question, the finest, easiest source for those hard-to-find replacements for overworked words. I have given at least a dozen copies to writers just starting their careers. Forget Roget's Thesaurus. This is _the_ book. I cannot imagine attempting to work without the Synonym Finder within hand's reach.	2001-04-28
US	52921362	R32FFVK6Y8BG4T	0385499035	515648474	The Program	Books	5	20	21	N	N	Better and better	I like Stephen White's books (and have read them all) for a lot of reasons, not the least of which is that he's not afraid to shift the focus away from psychologist Alan Gregory and his now-wife, prosecutor Lauren Crowder. To compare him to Jonathan Kellerman (as Doubleday does on the flap copy-something Doubleday just loves to do, as if comparison is a huge selling point rather than a risk of turning readers away) is to do White a great disservice. White never, as Kellerman always does, inflicts himself on the material. (One can almost hear Kellerman exclaiming from the pages, &quot;Aren't I clever?&quot; Well, no, actually.) Aside from brief mentions now and then of discredited syndromes (like repressed/recovered memories) he doesn't actually travel down the potentially hazardous road of bad therapy. Instead, he allows the characters to remain in character. And fine characters they are, too! In The Program, not only is the story original and clever, but also he's created in retired hitman, witness-protected, Carl Luppo, one of the most original and well-conceived people I've read about recently.<br />What I also like about White is his plotting skill. Each book seems to get just that much tighter, that much leaner, that much more labyrinthine. And the different &quot;voices&quot; in this book have genuine authenticity, particularly the exchanges between what, for want of a better term might be called, the &quot;contract arranger&quot; and his sundry hitmen/women. No overly technical whiz-bang stuff, just meat-and-potatoes serious business.<br />Kirsten Lord's (the prosecutor in witness protection) whale motif is a tad peculiar, but since the woman never for a moment goes out of character, who's to say it isn't valid? Certainly her concern for her daughter, and her grief over the murder of her husband, ring very true. Maybe people start thinking about whales when they're threatened with the loss of everything they value.<br />Finally, any writer who can endow two dogs with such character that the readers can actually see them, is a writer to be reckoned with. I highly recommend all White's books. They're never less than very good. The man really does get better and better and, in large part, I think it's as a result of his willingness sometimes to let his two central characters play secondary roles.	2001-04-24
US	52921362	R3RT3KCML5H0UL	0671040596	666522577	Deviant Ways	Books	2	4	9	N	Y	Oh, please!	Bottom line: Chris Mooney can write.<br />Top line: This book is beyond far-fetched; it's badly edited (on one page the hero, Jack Casey, is in a truck with the supposedly good guy, ubermensch/superman [but possibly bad] Malcolm Fletcher; farther down the page, Jack's in a Porsche; then in the next paragraph, he's in a truck. On another page, a cop throws away the same cigarette three different times--a trick I'd definitely like to learn.)<br />Deviant Ways is repetitious, and hardly credible, with a villain who-when he is finally introduced-fails entirely to come to life. He's simply not real.<br />The book is beyond derivative; it reads like an homage to Thomas Harris. And while Harris's books may _seem_ simple, it takes great skill to write as well as Harris does. Mr. Mooney is nowhere near that point. I do think that once he stops trying to ape other writers and begins to explore the scope of his own abilities, he may well write a book worth reading. But Deviant Ways isn't it.	2001-04-22
US	52921362	R1T8WQ1IV2IRO2	0312261306	644315071	Broken Machines (J.J. Donovan)	Books	5	4	4	N	Y	Refreshing	After reading a slew of highly touted, but fairly mediocre books, recently, it was a delight to read Broken Machines. Michael Leahey has a fine talent for characterization, a nice sense of humor, and a good feel for pacing. This is a very good first novel, and I will definitely be waiting with a high level of anticipation for his next book.<br />My only quibble is with the proofreading, which could have been better. There are too many typos in the book, and they always distract from the reading. Otherwise, I highly recommend Broken Machines.	2001-04-19
US	52921362	R1GOA5E6UIM0MO	0399146458	960128885	Dog Island	Books	3	6	8	N	Y	No surprises	There is a prototypical hero who has become all but generic. He is clever, often a lawyer, has more moxie than muscle; he is an honorable man, determined to keep his word at all costs. He always has a &quot;partner&quot; who's a behemoth type, big and brawny and techno-savvy.  And these two buddies toss banter back and forth while in the midst of life-and-death situations. Then there's the love interest; she's lovely and wise and wounded. The hero and his cohorts vary only in locale. Dog Island's setting is Florida, with side trips back to our hero, Tom McInnes's, home base in Mobile. One of the primary features of books featuring these types of characters is an endless itinerary; we get the names of every highway between Mobile and Appalachicola, as well as routes to anywhere else McInnes has to go. I've often wondered why so many mystery writers feel compelled to give endless details (like AAA trip maps) of where they're going and how they get there.<br />There are a couple of crusty old ex-military coots who come in very handy, a mysterious hispanic fellow of great charm (with good suits), a sexually abused teenager who teeters on the edge of believability, and everything is set in motion by this teenager's witnessing a murder.<br />Mike Stewart writes well; the narrative jogs along at a steady clip. But there's really nothing new here. A few scenes work really well, offering an insight into the kind of work Mr. Stewart could produce if he spent less time describing highways and more time on creating characters with depth.<br />It's a quick and easy book to read, but memorable it isn't. There's too much formula, too many almost-stock characters, and too little resolution. Perhaps the next book will show the results of a bit more hard work and some deeper thought.	2001-04-12
US	52921362	R1KO9A4BE8WWG4	0312244274	801031260	Reflecting the Sky	Books	3	10	13	N	N	Still not Bill	I've been bemused since reading the first of Rozan's books by the huge difference in quality and believability between the Lydia Chin books and those featuring Bill Smith. I can certainly understand the author's desire to have two series, but of the two, the Bill Smith books are superior in tone, texture and depth. Lydia Chin comes across as way too young for her age; the unacknowledged love between the two grows tedious in the Chin books--yet has actual weight in the Bill Smith ones. While I give the author the highest marks for her depiction of place in Reflecting The Sky (I've been to Hong Kong a number of times, and she captures perfectly the scope of the place, its insane traffic--both vehicular and pedestrian--and the shocking contrast between the haves and the have-nots) the plot is pretty creaky here. Information given at the outset that is positively glaring in terms of clues, isn't picked up on until very near the end of the book. And, frankly, Lydia is annoying. I don't believe for a single moment that any 28-year-old woman could be as naive (or as irritating) as this female. Her observations are usually cutely girlish, even coy, which isn't believable for someone born and bred in Manhattan--regardless of her ethnic background.<br />The Bill Smith books have, without exception, been thoughtful and beautifully rendered--showing Smith as intelligent, talented, sensitive and dogged. Yet when he appears in a Chin book, he gets morphed into an almost stereotypical big oaf with a blatant love for Lydia that seems doomed never to be fulfilled.<br />Reflecting The Sky has its moments, but most of them have to do with the setting; the plot is unsurprising and Bill's pretty much wasted (as he usually is in the Chin series). If you're looking for a good Hong Kong travelogue, here it is. (There's also a lot of yummy food described). If you're looking for substance, read the Bill Smith series. You'll come away more than satisfied. No argument: Rozan is a terrificallytalented writer. But the Chin books just don't show her at her best.	2001-04-08
US	52921362	R1SKS2GFKB934F	0316695262	851439685	Right As Rain: A Novel	Books	4	6	7	N	Y	Just fine, but ...	No doubt about it, George Pelecanos is a gifted writer. His particular skills lie in characterizations and in pacing. Right as Rain has a cast of well-defined characters, even the most secondary of them. The storyline of a bereaved mother seeking to clear her dead police-officer-son's name is entirely believable. But, really, this is a tale of innate racism--from both sides of the fence. The black, middle-aged PI Derek Strange is as prejudiced in his own way, as the young former cop, Terry Quinn, is in his. As a dark morality tale with drugs at the root of all evil, this book works pretty well ... Except for a certain preachiness Strange displays in the latter part of the book that reads as if the author is speaking and not his hero. Suddenly, Strange slides out of character to make a little speech about how to solve the US drug problem. Then, just as suddenly, he slides back into character and becomes his usual taciturn, non-revealing self. While I don't for a moment disagree with the central thesis--that making drugs legal would eliminate most of the peripheral problems connected with addicts' efforts to obtain them--it is a jarring note in an otherwise smoothly written narrative. The other, consistent, jarring note comes in the form of (mercifully) brief, unpleasantly graphic depictions of ugly sexual encounters--even when they're intended to be &quot;romantic.&quot;<br />The thugs and drug addicts, the dealers, bent cops and everyone else in this book are well-conceived and come fully to life. There's great tension in the narrative that keeps the reader glued to the page. And everything seems to have been set in place for a sequel--which I would buy and read without hesitation. But I'll be hoping the author doesn't use another leading character as a vehicle for sermonizing, but rather allows the characters to speak for themselves, in their own voices. This detracted from an otherwise fine book.	2001-03-31
US	52921362	R3O0ECHZ5B0PYG	0312203896	472950000	Doin' Dirty	Books	3	6	6	N	Y	Not quite	I really liked Jitter Joint, which is why I bought Doin' Dirty. Unfortunately, this book just doesn't meet the standard Swindle let with Jitter Joint. The plot is interesting enough but there are problems. One is the pacing. This book just doesn't have the kind of narrative drive that drags a reader along breathlessly to the conclusion. Another is the multiple viewpoints. Switching points of view can often be beneficial to a book but in this instance it often proved either to be of no real value or it simply slowed things down.<br />When he writes about the demons of alcoholism, Swindle's right up there; it's good, true stuff and reads well. The same is true in the depictions of the Vietnam vets; these characters are real and completely believable. The bad guys seem interchangeable, sort of like Jabba The Hut sliced up into three or four characters. They all have flat, dead eyes; they all speak in the same voice. They're all uncaring monsters with no discernible differences to distinguish them, one from the other. The &quot;detecting&quot; part of this book suffers from unevenness and, as I said above, slow pacing.<br />On the nitpicking front, almost every man in this book is described as being at least six-foot-two or taller. Are there no short men in Texas? Also, the proofreading isn't what it could have been and there are too many typos which, in some cases, actually alter the meaning of what's written.<br />I'm holding out hope that with his next effort Swindle will be back on form. In the meantime, for those new to this author's work, I'd strongly recommend reading Jitter Joint. It's far more indicative of the author's abilities.	2001-03-24
US	52921362	RQVS0D6MCRAR5	0060194324	390576460	A Dream of Wolves: A Novel	Books	5	6	7	N	Y	Fine work	First-person books are notoriously difficult to write, primarily because of the difficulty of making the narrator a sympathetic character. So it's hats off to Michael White for creating in Stuart Jordan a believably flawed, deeply caring hero. This was one of the happy occasions when the trade reviews didn't misrepresent the quality of the work. A Dream of Wolves is a lovely, rather languid book about life and loss and about the inherent difficulties of love, marriage, fatherhood and professionalism. The author did his homework on the medical research, and Dr. Jordan's observations ring true without any authorial self-congratulatory patina. In other words, the facts fit seamlessly into the narrative. They don't stand up and shout from the page, &quot;Hey! Look at me! Look at me! I'm research!&quot; Too many authors fall into this trap; White scrupulously avoids it. He refrains from playing a godlike role in the writing, allowing his characters to speak and act for themselves.<br />White is a writer who cares about his characters, who takes the time and makes the effort to bring them to life, warts and all. Any writer who can ascribe qualities to an infant and make that infant so real that she's almost visible to the reader, is a gifted writer. I wholeheartedly recommend this book; it's one of the rare ones that you finish with a satisfied sigh.	2001-03-21
US	52921362	R2A2KA2LYV4IKO	0312206046	107700095	The Heat of Lies	Books	2	9	12	N	Y	Huh?	I read Jonathan Stone's first book, The Cold Truth, and didn't hate it, so I thought I'd buy this one to see where he's going. In circles, if The Heat of Lies (is he starting a temperature series?) is anything to go by. It's relatively easy reading, except for the annoying sentence fragments--often broken in mid-sentence, so that you pause (as grammar intends us to) in the assumption that the thought is ended, only to discover it's continued in the next fragment. Most writers at the outset of their careers go through a phase when they experiment with language, trying to create a rhythm for the prose by bending the rules of grammar. It rarely works. This book would certainly have been less difficult to read if it had been written with full sentences and fewer attempts to be &quot;literary&quot; -- in other words, fewer adverbs and adjectives, and more attention paid to creating a viable heroine. Not for a moment do I believe that Julian Palmer is anything other than a male creation; she says and does things few if any women I've ever encountered would say or do.<br />What bothered me about this book was the on-again, off-again aspects of the murder of Francis Ryan. Once Julian Palmer, the Lieutenant in charge (?) of this case, narrows her focus on a prime suspect, the focus shifts again, and again, and again, and again, until by the end of the book you're left wondering, &quot;What on earth was that about?&quot;  Mr. Stone drags in that old standby of sexual abuse and tosses it about like a puppy with a chew toy, with no real comprehension of the seriousness of the issue.<br />The notion that this officer would &quot;hire&quot; her ex-con former boss to help her solve the mystery of Ryan's murder is too much of a reach, as is the De Palma-esque ending, intended to leave us wondering if the infamous Winston Edwards will appear in Stone's next effort--perhaps titled, The Tepid of Telling, or The Lukewarm of Soup.	2001-03-13
US	52921362	RIOHN23HLLPU3	0786708395	838231813	Garnethill: A Novel of Crime	Books	4	4	7	N	Y	Very good, but ...	Here is a mystery with splendidly conceived characters, a plot like a snake that winds sinuously in and out of dark places, and a powerful sense of place. The Glaswegian manners of speech and terms of affection (hen, pet) are rendered with kindness and humor. It's literally one of those books that you can't put down.<br />I have just one quibble: Why did the author feel it necessary to muddy the waters by introducing the issue of recovered memories/false memory syndrome? For those unfamiliar with the tragic, and ongoing, repercussions of the recovered memory craze (from the mid-80s to the latter part of the 90s), the issue won't be clarified by Denise Mina's tinkering with her heroine's history. She gives Maureen (one of the spunkiest, most likable characters I've read in ages) a history that contends she actually forgot egregious sexual abuse by her father. Initially, it appears as if there was only one occasion of abuse. But as the book progresses, it transpires this was a long-term ongoing thing.<br />With all due respect to Ms. Mina, people simply do not forget, wipe out, or otherwise misplace recall of repeated sexual abuse. There are legions of us who dearly wish that were possible. So while she's got the emotions and the details just right of how an abuse victims thinks and behaves, she's got this part wrong. And it's something that isn't even essential to the plot of this book. A large number of families of sexually abused people refuse to believe the truth. It wasn't necessary to include recovered memories in order to paint Maureen O'Donnell's family in dark shades. Their characters are so well drawn that the darkness is there, and denial is central to disfynctional families.<br />Fortunately, the author doesn't overdo this issue. But it was of concern to me to see that, according to her biographical material, she is currently researching a book on false memory syndrome. That smacks of obsession, which is a pity, because her sympathy for the dispossessed, the disturbed and the victimized is everywhere evident in her work. It would be a shame to see another book from this talented author that, again, beats a dead horse.<br />Garnethill is otherwise a great reading experience, with characters I'd certainly like to see again.	2001-03-10
US	52921362	RCYKO51XI44XH	0688163165	733601761	Mystic River	Books	5	8	8	N	N	An Exquisite Departure	From his first book, A Drink Before The War, it was obvious that Lehane is a gifted writer. Mystic River proves it beyond any doubt. Thoughtful, profoundly insightful, tautly written and beautifully conceived, this is a novel that deserves its place on the best-seller lists. Lehane explores the dynamic between three very different boys, then brings us forward into their adulthood when lives that have diverged reconnect as a result of the murder of Jimmy Marcus's daughter, Katie.<br />Dave who has grown to adulthood harbouring the fearsome details of his four-day abduction twenty-five years earlier, Sean who is lost in the silence of periodic telephone calls from his estranged wife, and Jimmy, the core-of-steel, ex-con father of the victim are brought together by Katie's death. What makes this book so powerful are the characterizations that go right to the essence of every single person, regardless of how secondary; and the evocation of place. You can literally see the neighborhood and its occupants, including the old guard and the encroaching yuppies. You can feel the emotions as they make themselves felt in each character.<br />And, finally, there is a resolution so painful and so brilliantly executed that one has to marvel at the talent and wisdom of the author. Mystic River will haunt you long after you've put it down; its sights and smells, its population will stay with you. Here is a writer who just gets better and better, and isn't afraid to break away from a series to take a stroll through the old neighborhood. A fine book, a memorable one.	2001-03-04
US	52921362	R1228X22RRBENN	0316154075	347427189	A Darkness More Than Night	Books	2	16	20	N	Y	Tired and implausible	Sometimes, when an author's been around for a while and finally gets a book that hits the best-seller lists, it isn't necessarily the author's best book. But hitting the lists is roughly the equivalent of an Academy Award an actor gets for past performances even though the award is being given for a new movie that's less than wonderful. That is definitely the case here, with A Darkness More Than Night.<br />There are two books here, with two heroes--both featured in previous novels by Connelly. One works, the other doesn't. Harry Bosch has, from day one, been a viable character. Terry McCaleb was viable in Blood Work. In this book, he's absurd. What Connelly posits here is that a very experienced former FBI profiler would make a gaff of such epic proportions that he puts Harry Bosch in the soup. Sorry, that doesn't fly.<br />While McCaleb is busy profiling, the real narrative is happening in the Harry Bosch chapters. That's when the book comes alive and gets interesting. Sadly, Connelly is trying to pull off a double whammy and every time he goes back to McCaleb the book falls on its face. This makes for tiresome reading. It's a plot that simply isn't worthy of the work Connelly's done before. I can only hope that he'll go back to focusing on one hero at a time, rather than attempting to push two into the package for the price of one.<br />The McCaleb part of this book is simply implausible, and therefore annoying. And the title is worked to death; it must figure in the text twenty-five or thirty times. Rather than slogging through this one, I would recommend going back and reading the early Connelly books, where the energy is full force, the plotting is tight, and the characters are up and running at full speed. A Darkness More Than Night reads as if the author had a deadline to meet and was working on only two cylinders. It's tired, not believable, and very disappointing.	2001-02-26
US	52921362	R17LHMGDZJ8SGG	0345348656	150650131	Lord Foul's Bane (The Chronicles of Thomas Covenant the Unbeliever, Book 1)	Books	5	1	6	N	Y	Compelling	Here is a creation that stays with you long after you've finished reading. Beautifully conceived, Donaldson easily moves the reader to suspend disbelief and go along with his reluctant, diseased hero to a magnificent world where logic, honor, and reason play far greater parts than they do in the one we know.<br />I was introduced to Donaldson by a friend, and I'm grateful. It would appear that this book and its two companions were orignally one very long manuscript (at least based on the copyright information.) If that was indeed the case, Donaldson is to be commended for creating a remarkable cast of characters and some fine magic, and sustaining it over the course of many, many pages.<br />A gifted writer with an enviable imagination and a talent for clean, clear prose. This is a splendid book, part of a splendid series.	2001-02-22
US	52921362	R19A01NPPWS8DK	0679453059	301550959	Death Benefits: A Novel	Books	5	19	19	N	Y	Enormously entertaining	I've been a fan of Thomas Perry's work since his first book, Butcher's Boy. Perry is one of the rare writers who never inflicts himself on his material, but rather allows the characters to evolve and speak for themselves. His writing is spare, never cluttered, and his characters are always fully realized and highly distinctive. Death Benefits is a fine example of a writer at peak form. Aside from a truly intriguing plot line that extrapolates on the possibilities of misusing life insurance that have not (at least to my knowledge) previously been explored, we have a central character who, at the age of twenty-four, grows up within the pages of this book--ably and entertainingly pulled along by the fascinating Stillman and the clever Serena. What I particularly liked about the character of Stillman, aside from his ingenuity, is his humor and wisdom. There's a lot of truth about life, and about the process of personal growth in these pages. Much as I enjoyed it, though, I found the &quot;bad guys&quot; to be rather an implausible creation. That said, this is a thoughtful and entertaining book, and the last hundred pages of Death Benefits make for a breathless ride. Highly recommended.	2001-02-22
US	52921362	R3A5ISNHP0HOXN	0312953135	839612270	Detective First Grade	Books	4	4	4	N	Y	Very entertaining	When I find an author new to me, I like to go back to the beginning and read all of his/her books in chronological order. So, with Dan Mahoney, I began with Detective First Grade. A former New York City police captain, Mahoney knows his territory. This is a police procedural for real, without excess flab, and a rivetting plot line. Fine characterizations, clean prose, and slow-but-steady action build to a gratifying climax. My only quibble is with the ending (literally.) Everything is resolved and then, wham! Done. That aside, though, this is a good, solid book and I'm anticipating with pleasure reading all Mr. Mahoney's other books. This book is a definite must-read for those who want an inside look at how a big-city police force sometimes operates.	2001-02-18
US	52921362	RC6QF51209MCU	0064407667	25170610	The Bad Beginning (A Series of Unfortunate Events #1)	Books	5	56	66	N	Y	Too delicious!	I came to this series as a result of an interview with the author that I read in Publishers Weekly. Intrigued, I ordered the first three books. I loved them. They are purportedly children's books but the author has a wicked sense of humor, and includes references that only adults would recognize. (For example, two of the three children are named Sunny and Klaus. Gee, that makes me think about some real-life wicked goings-on.)<br />Aside from everything else, these children actually come alive; they're inventive, clever and resourceful. They also suffer at the hands of their wonderfully conceived evil uncle Count Olaf.<br />I've passed these books along to a number of children who gobbled them up as avidly as I did--which proves that a good book knows no age barriers. This series is pure pleasure.	2001-02-15
US	52921362	RVVU69N0KQYHE	0312151764	723942332	The Mystery Roast	Books	4	2	2	N	Y	Good coffee	I liked the Long Rain and so I bought The Mystery Roast. In the years between the writing of the two books, Mr. Gadol has, happily, grown and improved as a writer. The Mystery Roast is clever, possibly a bit too much so--the characters' names being one example. There's Eric and Marek. Then there's the art impressario named Maldemer--not too suble for anyone with even a slight knowledge of French--mal de mer meaning seasick. Hmmn.<br />I loved the creation of The Mystery Roast cafe; the food and the beverages are appetite-provoking. Interesting, too, is the depiction of fad marketing. This is a New York novel in the way that Manhattan is a quintessential New York movie. The author scores big points for capturing the feel and smell of the city, even its pulse. But Eric's &quot;visions&quot; --the images of the past he keeps seeing throughout the first two thirds of the book, and the idol's italicized &quot;comments&quot; quickly become irritating, even detrimental to the flow of the narrative.<br />Gadol is a good writer, an imaginative one, and the book is worth reading, even if it does drag in parts and even if Eric is boringly self-indulgent at times. The secondary characters more than compensate for the lack of sympathy one feels for the hero.	2001-02-07
US	52921362	R3TR9QSSPO146P	0312255012	277559952	A Prayer for the Dying	Books	5	5	5	N	Y	At least eight stars!	Stewart O'Nan never fails to impress me. He tackles different themes, different eras, different everything in each book. This one, slim and incisive, is a masterpiece of understatement. The tale of Jacob Hansen's life and losses soon after the Civil War, when the town of Friendship is stricken by both a diphtheria epidemic and a raging forest fire, is exquisitely simple but remarkably powerful. I haven't stopped thinking about this book since I finished reading it. I marvel at how much O'Nan manages to convey without ever being explicit. Love, tragic loss, and survival against all odds are the interwoven strands of the theme. Life lessons compressed into one short book. This is a very special novel, written by a wonderfully gifted writer.	2001-01-25
US	52921362	R1F0IGGL50YL4X	1569472114	303345815	Murder in Belleville (Aimee Leduc Investigations, No. 2)	Books	4	27	29	N	Y	Very good but not great	I loved Murder in the Marais. That said, while I enjoyed Cara Black's new, second book featuring Aimee Leduc, I didn't love it. Certainly, it rolls along at a good clip. But my primary problem, aside from a too-large cast of characters, was a fair absence of emotion on Aimee's part about the things that happen to some of the characters. Aimee's feelings in this tale seem to be focused primarily on herself, and, as a result, there's an absence of impact on the reader when terrible things happen. There are some fine moments, particularly one scene involving a cellphone conversation with the four-year-old daughter of Aimee's &quot;employer.&quot; But this is a story about serious events and the lack of the heroine's feelings for the people involved in these events does a disservice to the overall narrative.<br />It is none the less an entertaining, if somewhat difficult, book and I would recommend that newcomers to Black's work read Murder In the Marais first. She manages to set the Paris scene wonderfully well; its smells, its sights, the feel of the place. And for that alone I give the author high marks.	2001-01-16
US	52921362	R1UI7G1MFYAMA8	0892967102	346578458	Flashfire	Books	5	12	12	N	Y	Splendid!	This was my introduction to the work of Richard Stark (aka Donald Westlake) and I just loved Parker. The character is a compelling blend of bad guy with good reason that reminded me powerfully of Patricia Highsmith's Ripley. It's quite a feat to put the reader squarely on the side of someone who, basically, is not a nice person. Highsmith did it; Stark/Westlake has done it, too. The man is a fine writer, with the gift of economy; no unnecessary descriptions, just pure driving narrative and vivid characterizations. I plan to get all the previous Parker books just as soon as I finish writing this review. Highly recommended.	2001-01-12
US	52921362	RFIE7SQA5TBLL	0609607294	800449511	The Babel Effect	Books	5	5	5	N	Y	Brilliantly conceived!	As he demonstrated in Skull Session, Daniel Hecht is a gifted writer of formidable imagination. He is a producer of trenchant prose on wonderfully unique themes. In The Babel Effect, he tackles the malaise that affects much of the general population as a result of escalating violence, and suggests a very viable thesis for the underlying cause(s). This is not light reading, but it's a powerful, thought-provoking book that ultimately catches fire and burns, hot and bright, right to the end. Compelling, fascinating--all the good adjectives apply to a very special book. I recommend both Skull Session and The Babel Effect. Both will stay with you for a long, long time.	2001-01-10
US	52921362	RQYJQ36TDMFVS	0312266324	52317828	A Place of Execution	Books	3	20	23	N	Y	Long and slow	Once again I've been snookered by those infamous &quot;glowing reviews.&quot; As well, a clutch of truly important authors have written blurbs for the back of the book (i.e. Robert Crais and Michael Connelly.) Makes me wonder ...<br />There's a decent plot buried inside A Place of Execution, but it takes a lot of work on the reader's part to get there. This is a book that could have done with a lot of paring down and judicious editing. Endless nitpicking detail might work well in a true-crime novel (which this piece pretends to be) but I found it a tough slog. The book staggers along under the weight of its descriptions (of roads, of houses, of people) until I started developing an aversion to the very sight of it.<br />Given that I'm a Dickens fan, and not averse to a slow-paced tale, my complaint here has to do more with overwriting than anything else. I also guessed, almost from the outset, what was actually going on in Scardale. So there was no big &quot;Aha!&quot; by the time this novel lumbered to its conclusion.<br />Unless you've got the patience of a saint and endless disposable time, I would not recommend tackling A Place Of Execution.	2001-01-01
US	52921362	RLDHRCHNUZEJ5	0670892742	232409532	Cherry: A Memoir	Books	5	4	5	N	Y	Just wonderful!	Mary Karr is a writer of extraordinary talent and humor, with a deeply ingrained comprehension of &quot;outsiderdom&quot;--that place where children of differentness, intelligence, alienation and sensitivity go to live (sometimes forever.) She has the ability to incorporate the cadence of Texas slang into prose that floods the senses with its simple-seeming narrative structure.<br />Everything about this book--from the sullen heat of endlesslessly boring, too-long summer days, to the drug-induced distortions and lassitude of her sixteenth summer--rings with truth. The author's unflinching look at her young self and at her friends, at her anything-but-ordinary family is to be applauded. Cherry is the epitome of taking a lemon and making not merely lemonade but a lemon chiffon cake. I loved every word of it.	2000-12-28
US	52921362	R1Q36ASB5MTXTT	0393047717	181567225	Dearly Departed: A Holland Taylor Mystery	Books	5	0	0	N	Y	Another Winner	David Housewright has yet to take a false step in this series. Dearly Departed is every bit as convoluted and entertaining as the previous two books. First-person narratives are always tricky, but Housewright manages to make Holland Taylor sensitive but not maudlin, droll, and very human. <br />This search for a supposedly dead woman takes the reader to some very interesting places and introduces us to a cast of entirely believable characters. The reader's curiosity equals that of the hero, as Housewright's Holland becomes fascinated by the missing woman and seeks to unravel the mystery of what became of her.<br />A first-rate book in a fine series.	2000-12-26
US	52921362	R3R7C3HVQW9L3A	0684871262	791325639	Speaking in Tongues : A Novel	Books	3	13	15	N	Y	Slick and Quick	As demonstrated in The Bone Collector and The Coffin Dancer, when he wants to Deaver can really pull out all the stops, delivering fast-paced, well-researched books. But Speaking In Tongues, while as fast-faced as ever, just doesn't have the cunning twists of plot or the techno-savvy that made the Lincoln Rhyme books so intriguing.<br />This tale of a nutbar shrink wreaking havoc on Tate Collier's life by the kidnapping of Tate's daughter Megan is merely interesting. We root for Megan to escape the reeking, abandoned mental institution where she's been stashed while Aaron Matthews goes about the business of covering his tracks. But I had a lot of trouble believing that so many otherwise intelligent people would buy into the snake oil Matthews sells in various guises/disguises all over Virginia. By the halfway point, I was fervently hoping one of these people would say, &quot;Are you kidding?&quot; and throw soup in this guy's face.<br />My minor quibble with this book is that the dialogue of everyone under twenty endlessly incorporates the word &quot;like.&quot; It's, like, the way it is. So, having dashed through what is essentially a non-stop chase novel, I was, like, let down. Okay? I mean, like, almost bummed, even. You know? Like, really.	2000-12-25
US	52921362	R1O8JQLM6NBRRD	0312261586	318882635	Fear of Drowning	Books	3	4	6	N	Y	Not in the same league	Peter Turnbull's Glasgow series has been one of my special favorites since the first book. That said, Fear of Drowning, introducing a new series and new characters, simply doesn't compare. While the writing is as good as ever, and the characters are well-drawn, there's an air of fatigue hovering over this slim tale--as if the author has run out of energy. It's very disappointing. There are no surprises, the solution to the murders of Max and Amanda Williams is pretty well telegraphed, and then the book simply ends. Clunk. <br />If you're expecting the intensity and quality of Turnbull's previous books, you won't find it in this one. It reads almost as if it were written by someone else, someone lacking the compulsion to look at the dirt in the cracks the way the old Peter Turnbull did.	2000-12-24
US	52921362	R2ZRGLPJ57NFP8	006017143X	807655132	The Night Listener: A Novel	Books	3	11	18	N	Y	Where did the story go?	As a fan of the first couple of Tales of the City books, I approached The Night Listener with great anticipation--particularly because of the glowing reviews. And, once again, I find myself forced to wonder who writes all these glowing reviews and what their previous reading experience might have been.<br />No doubt about it, the premise is a grabber. Broken-hearted, middle-aged gay man is losing/has lost his long-time, younger lover; when asked to write a cover quote for a promising work written by a thirteen-year-old horrifically abused boy, Gabriel Noone finds himself completely taken with both the boy and his book.<br />There then ensues a series of telephone conversations that strain credulity. Okay, it's possible. Authors do sometimes find themselves far more involved with their readers than they ever wanted or expected to be. What really doesn't work is the nonstop whining Noone offers this dying child who, for the most part, just listens and then offers insights and wisdom that no child could possess, regardless of the extent of the abuse s/he'd suffered. Abuse may age one prematurely; it may even heighten one's innate perception, but it cannot inspire the kinds of insights young Pete offers. Only age and experience can hone one's comprehension of the behavior of others. To suggest that abuse has endowed young Pete with premature wisdom and compassion not only borders on the ludicrous it also minimizes the truly monumental damage that is the end-product for children who have suffered gross physical and emotional indignities.<br />In the final few chapters the book falls to pieces so thoroughly that I spent several hours trying to figure out just what the author had intended to achieve. Certain things happen that would be impossible, given the author's construct. Unfortunately, to describe these things would give away plot details. But a discerning reader will undoubtedly puzzle over the how and why of these details, just as I did. <br />There was endless potential here for a riveting exchange between an anguished older man and a terribly abused, terminally ill child. But instead the author's focus was primarily on the older man, leaving young Pete a shadow figure, scarcely believable and barely present. What we get, instead of enlightenment, is a kind of one-man parade: Gabriel Noone as the drum master, strutting down the road of pseudo self-discovery, leading his parade of naked grievances.	2000-12-21
US	52921362	R2PG0ZHQ9F0FV4	0385323603	318781024	The Debt Collector	Books	3	4	7	N	Y	Rather disappointing	I've been a long-time fan of this series-with the exception of Satan's Lambs which, although well-written, goes down the Satanic Ritual Abuse path where I cannot follow (at least, not without a full frontal lobotomy). The characters are always effectively drawn, the narrative strong, the plot-lines plausible, the books generally entertaining.<br />The Debt Collector, however, just isn't up to Hightower's usual mark. First, the identity of the mysterious &quot;third man&quot; present at the grisly scene of the home invasion that is the central event of the tale, was fairly obvious. And, second, I couldn't buy into the heroine's suicidal ideation. Given that things were actually going well in Sonora Blair's life (so well, in fact, that I know any number of women who'd happily trade their lives for Sonora's), it didn't seem reasonable (no matter how charismatic the character of the &quot;third man&quot;) that she'd be so preoccupied with thoughts of her own death-as well as being food-phobic almost to the point of anorexia. This is very serious stuff and there's just nothing in the text to substantiate this psychological near-meltdown.<br />That said, it's a book worth reading. It's just not up to the standard set by Hightower in No Good Deed, Eyeshot, and Flashpoint.	2000-12-16
US	52921362	R1OAHVRKFJ44DR	0553801686	905302949	Legacy of the Dead (Inspector Ian Rutledge Mysteries)	Books	5	41	42	N	Y	Incomparable	I recently learned in one of the trade magazines that Charles Todd is actually a mother-son writing team. No problem. From the outset, I've found this to be one of the most well-conceived, historically accurate series ever. The idea of a WW1 veteran tormented by the Scottish burring of comments and observations (inside his own head) of a solider he admired and respected, yet had to condemn to death on the battlefield shouldn't work. But it does. It's no small accomplishment; neither is the circuitous plotting and stunning characterizations-of even the most minor characters. Each book deals less with who-did-it and far more with why-did-s/he-do it; and the convoluted rationales of the central characters are never short  of fascinating.<br />What I found particularly enjoyable about Legacy Of The Dead was the meticulous detailing of the search for Eleanor Gray, missing for three years; as well as the identity of the child in possession of the heroine, Fiona MacDonald, who is imprisoned on a charge of murdering the nameless skeletal remains of a woman (who might or might not be Eleanor Gray). This is sleuthing at its best. I've loved each book in this series, and this latest met my every expectation. I recommend the series wholeheartedly.	2000-12-10
US	52921362	R2G4QJVFBFZY1W	0060197943	420295639	Blood and Guile	Books	3	4	4	N	Y	Rather disappointing	After Tidewater Blood, the first of William Hoffman's novels I read, I was primed to enjoy this new one. Sadly, Blood And Guile suffers from a too-languid pace that detracts from the plot line. The primary character, Walter Frampton, who stood as a fine piece of believable characterization in the previous book, comes across here as ineffectual, even dull in a doomed-romantic fashion. It's a pity, because this tale of a supposed hunting accident has possibilities that are never fully realized-all as a result of Frampton's failure to step off the pages as he did so compellingly in Tidewater Blood. Certainly, Blood And Guile is worth reading, but it's just not on the same level as the preceding book.	2000-12-03
US	52921362	R2ZNI6GT66DPW1	1550223968	105945428	Too Close to the Falls: A Memoir	Books	3	18	24	N	N	Could have been splendid	Here is a memoir that deserved far more care in editing than it received. As a result, the misspellings and anachronisms seriously detract from the pleasure of reading about one of the most eccentric families ever. As the overactive only child of two truly fascinating people, Catherine Gildiner started working in her father's pharmacy at the age of four. Her adventures with customers and with her peers, but most especially with her parents are told with great good humor and kindness. Unfortunately, the problems mentioned above get in the way so badly that it made for tedious, sometimes maddening reading of what would, with judicious editing, have been a wonderful autobiographical piece. Just to cite two examples: the Jackie Gleason show aired on Saturday nights, not on Fridays. And the spelling of famous names often varies within a single paragraph.<br />Unfortunate, too, are the last few chapters. They come as a letdown to an otherwise thoroughly engaging memoir. Ms. Gildiner deserved far better treatment. One can only hope that her next publisher/next editor will do the job right.	2000-12-03
US	52921362	R32WB6AVZOLB4	0061013714	758666363	Tidewater Blood	Books	5	2	2	N	Y	Compelling	This book served as my introduction to the talented Mr. Hoffman, and a fine introduction it was. The south is everywhere in this book, from the spare, elegant physical descriptions of places and things, to the clipped, almost abbreviated speech of the characters.<br />How Charles LeBlanc-a character as close to a hermit as one can get-is accused of murdering a large chunk of his estranged family and manages, through native intelligence and dogged determination, to vindicate himself makes for wonderful reading. I literally couldn't put this novel down, and carried it everywhere with me until it was done. William Hoffman is a fine writer; there isn't one extraneous word in this book. And aside from learning some interesting facts about Virginia, I also found out about a large number of wild-growing things, both animal and vegetable, that one might eat in order to survive.<br />This is a very worthwhile novel, offering insights into alienation, anger and the need of some for wide-open spaces. I look forward with enormous anticipation to reading his other books.	2000-11-22
US	52921362	R2YZZ3L11XB7CD	0385495692	147102326	The Big Thaw: A Novel	Books	5	25	25	N	Y	Another good one!	Donald Harstad is one of the rare writers whose basic good humor shines through his work while managing not to inflict himself on the material. This is no small accomplishment, and I believe that this man is a natural. His writing is never labored; he has a splendid gift for narrative flow and for creating likeable, believable characters.<br />The Big Thaw starts out with the mystery of who murdered two young burglars and spreads to a far larger scenario with critical international implications. Harstad actually makes us feel the miserable cold of the Iowa winter while creating a very real sense of the territory he knows so well. The climax of this tale, set on a riverboat gambling casino, is beautifully executed, causing the reader to wonder every step of the way how this impossible situation will be resolved. As it turns out, it is done with great imagination and at a pace that leaves one fairly winded.<br />My only quibble, and it's a small one, is the author's fondness for grins. Every last character grins. Occasionally somebody smiles, but mostly, grinning rules the day. However, the editor, more than the author, is to blame for failing not only to pick up on some spelling errors but also this (admittedly minor) repetition. It certainly doesn't detract from the story or from Mr. Harstad's considerable talent, but he deserves to have his work treated with more care. I recommend this series enthusiastically.	2000-11-21
US	52921362	R1TOLIHVFTKDRM	0385488440	597135386	Purple Cane Road: A Novel (Dave Robicheaux Mysteries)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Comfort food in book form	Reading any book by James Lee Burke is the equivalent of going out to dinner and eating your dessert first. The author's writing just gets better and better. While a few of the earlier books tended to be rather overdescribed, Burke's got it down now to an art form-and he's at his peak in this book.<br />The two main plotlines weave in and out like the threads in fine fabric: the decades old murder of Dave's mother, and the pending execution of one of the Labiche twins for the murder of the man who long ago sexually abused the girls. But, as always, it is the characters who carry the narrative, and there isn't a single character in this book who isn't fully realized and doesn't march off the page and right into the reader's consciousness-particularly Clete, former cop, sometime PI; big and mean and huge-hearted. There's every known (and some unknown) species of bad, semi-bad, kind-of-bad and good, kind-of-good, and both good and bad people populating these pages. There's Little Face (I marvel at this man's talent for names; it's right up there with Charles Dickens) a retired hooker, and Cora, a former film star; there are ex-cons, madames, politicians and an unlikely governor of surprising humanity.<br />Start a trip along the violent Purple Cane Road and just see if you can put this book down!	2000-11-14
US	52921362	R21L50RSF5CJIA	0385502532	903040762	Drowning Ruth: A Novel (Oprah's Book Club)	Books	3	134	154	N	Y	Nothing new	Yet again, based on glowing reviews, I bought this book and staggered through 338 pages trying to determine specifically why it's been so lauded.<br />While the writing is just fine, crisp and tidy, and the characters are well wrought, there's really nothing new here. Certainly, there are no surprises. The book begins in 1919 and ends in 1941. I don't know why. There are no definitive period details that set the era for us (aside from brief mentions of corsets and hair bobbing). No one seems to suffer any of the ill effects that so many suffered in that period between the two world wars. It's a tale, often told, of history repeating itself. Everything is telegraphed, so that one expects exactly what is delivered. The character of Amanda, whose voice is predominant throughout, is so irritating that it's difficult to be sympathetic. And her niece, Ruth, who starts out an interesting, quirky and determined child who often thinks how wonderful it would be to have her own store (a lovely touch), deteriorates in the latter part of the book into a variation on a theme of Amanada and ultimately is just as irritating as her aunt.<br />The secondary characters, Ruth's father, Carl, and the farm help, Rudy, are more interesting and sympathetic. But the author disposes of Carl about midway through the tale (and doesn't mention him again until the final few pages; and Rudy is merely retired off without ever being allowed any significant input--despite the fact that he's featured throughout the book). From that point on the narrative lumbers to its very predictable conclusion. As a first novel, it's a solid effort, but it suffers from a lack of oxygen. It's like spending a very long evening in a dimly lit room, on an uncomfortable sofa, with people you've just met, who are not gifted in the art of conversation. You can't wait to get outside and gulp down fresh air.	2000-11-07
US	52921362	R7VP254AEIPA8	0312243022	785940945	The Hours: A Novel	Books	5	3	4	N	N	It creeps up on you	Here's a book that starts and ends at a very leisurely pace. It's deceptively clever, beautifully executed, and gripping in a quiet way. If you're still thinking about a book a day, or a week, or a month after you've read it, that book has very definitely succeeded. This book made me want to know more about Virginia Woolf (and I thought I'd read everything about her). It also made me care about characters I initially thought were static. But the considerations of life and death are provocative, simply stated and yet very profound. I pay the author the greatest compliment in saying that, at the end, I was entirely caught up in the lives depicted, and I'm still thinking about the book.	2000-10-22
US	52921362	R30RBD2B990CGU	0802733468	700520352	The Death of an Amiable Child: An Anita Servi Novel (Anita Servi Mysteries)	Books	3	6	7	N	Y	Doesn't quite make it	I bought this book based on the glowing trade reviews, and, initially, I was very taken with it. There's a fine cast of geriatrics who are well-drawn and believable. The social worker heroine starts out well enough and then turns into one of those irritating women who is forever getting herself into terrible trouble. A whole bunch of people die; so many that it literally became a case of overkill. It's bothersome that the heroine and her husband have adopted a child of color and yet they encounter no problems, either with the child or with the people they meet. What we're given is a child with cornrows and no other discernibly African-American qualities.<br />I give the author points for a decent first try, and hope that the next book in this series has fewer bodies and a smartened-up heroine.	2000-10-22
US	52921362	R2UZQVKX7CLL4M	031226626X	792709116	Street Level	Books	5	3	4	N	Y	Delightful!	Plot is really secondary to the characterizations and dialogue in this fine first novel. Duncan Sloan is a well-conceived hero with a heart in hiding, and his encounters throughout have a resounding ring of truth to them--primarily because of the splendid rendering of the characters' voices. As well, with seeming effortlessness, author Truluck creates believable, even touching, characters. And this is no small accomplishment.<br />A book well worth reading.	2000-10-22
US	52921362	R1QZVS0OKUN6UQ	0670892424	780619582	After Life	Books	4	3	5	N	N	Variation on the mother-daughter theme	The how of Peter Morton's death is really secondary to the passing on,  from mother to daughter, of a life as a spiritualist; of the inevitability  of a daughter following her mother's &quot;calling,&quot; to become a  medium. In the creation of the town of Train Line, Rhian Ellis has  delivered to us a most believable population of professionals who are,  despite the oddity of their occupation, alarmingly and amusingly similar to  the professionals of any small town. With Patsy Ash, later Madame Galina,  the author has given us a three-dimensional, highly believable,  self-doubting yet determined mother whose daughter, Naomi Ash, not  surprisingly, grows to womanhood with the same attributes. The give and  take of this relationship is fascinating to follow--the power and control  passing back and forth between the two women. And that power and control  are then brought into play between Naomi and the child she babysits from  infancy into her teen years-- a very nice transition that successfully  demonstrates that the mother-daughter relationship can transcend blood.  Aside from a couple of glaring anachronisms (I don't recall anyone saying,  &quot;Duh,&quot; in 1988, or using the expression, &quot;As if&quot;) the  writing is spare, the narrative compelling. Once into it, this is a  difficult book to put down and the resolution is most satisfying. It's not  so much a who-dunnit as a why-dunnit.	2000-09-04
US	52921362	R3V1IQUV704HEO	0312262442	212659125	Unnatural Causes	Books	3	0	0	N	Y	Not quite	While there is some very scary information in this book about antibiotics  and the creation of superbugs than can pass from one species (chickens)to  another (humans), the somewhat embarrassing romantic dance between the  heroine (who is, of course, tall and beautiful and smart) and a  professor/expert witness gets in the way of the story. The good people in  this book are very very good and the bad people are very very bad; there's  no shading to the primary characters. Oddly, the secondary characters have  more depth and are more believable--except, naturally--for the second-tier  villains. A high level of predictability detracts from the story, but  readers will definitely think twice before they eat their next piece of  chicken.	2000-09-03
US	52921362	R2XMYHTH8I7NWC	0399145400	378438674	All the Lucky Ones Are Dead	Books	4	2	2	N	Y	a bit disappointing	While there is a lot of information here on the gansta rap scene and its  denizens, and while Mr. Haywood has considerable talent, there's a certain  flatness to this book that leaves the reader feeling rather empty. The  investigation of rapper C.E. Digga Jones's suicide by Haywood's series  detective, Aaron Gunner, introduces us to some interesting, very  well-developed characters. But the resolution of this story just doesn't  have the chilling effect it should, perhaps because of Gunner's somewhat  cool, distanced position on what he ultimately learns about the death. The  writing is clean and crisp, but Gunner's understated emotions deprive the  ending of its punch.	2000-09-03
US	52921362	R3316DCRWK3U6H	0553574280	898554792	Keeper (Atticus Kodiak)	Books	5	6	7	N	Y	Great start to a fine series	Given that the author was only 25 when he wrote this book, it's impressive for many reasons--not the least of which is his control of the characters (they're all highly original, particularly Bridgett, a PI unlike any other)  and of the narrative. I've truly enjoyed the Atticus Kodiak series and  recommend the books wholeheartedly.	2000-06-17
US	52921362	R1BNV9TOUCEQSJ	0385495846	437097764	Demolition Angel	Books	5	1	2	N	Y	Taut, well-plotted departure	Taking a break from his Elvis Cole series, Crais introduces us to the very believable Carole Starkey who is, literally, back from the dead. Men rarely write female protagonists well, but Starkey is a credit to Crais' writing  skills. She is entirely real as an angry, wounded investigator searching  for clues--no matter how small--to the death of a bomb squad member. On a  purely incidental note, it's amusing to see how the author deals with a  number of Apple products, particularly the misadventures of one i-book. For  Mac users, this is almost an inside joke. I have to hope that we'll see  more of Carole Starkey.	2000-06-17
US	52921362	R1LLKZ636NZHOG	0061097241	993679497	No Offense Intended (Munch Mancini Novels)	Books	5	7	7	N	Y	Compelling as ever	I fell in love with Munch Mancini in No Human Involved, and I love her still. Aside from the fact that Seranella writes with harrowing accuracy about drug addiction, her tinkerings with various engines--both human and  mechanical--are never less than bang-on. This is a truly fine series.	2000-06-17
US	52921362	R1EYKJOGH3770M	0060193646	786975429	Twice Dying: A Novel	Books	5	7	9	N	Y	An auspicious debut	Here's a book that takes off at a gallop from the first page and never lets up. Dr. Carroll Monks is a well-developed, wonderfully weary, completely believable character and I hope we'll get to see more of him. I  did, fairly early on, twig to the plot but it's a credit to Mr. McMahon's  writing skills that I was still driven to read on and find out how he  carried it off. He did it very well indeed.	2000-06-17
US	52921362	R2CAC0B75HSKNV	0425169316	364671313	The Ghosts of Morning	Books	5	2	2	N	Y	Part of a great series	Richard Barre is, quite simply, a splendid writer. His gift for plotting is way beyond average, and his creation of Wil Hardesty--aging surfer with an aching heart--is pure inspiration. Barre never takes his narrative in  expected directions but allows the plot to twist in on itself in elaborate  coils so that his stories are never predictable. Each of his books is a  treasure in itself.	2000-06-17
US	52921362	R14BAIURNTD845	0967652804	547057846	Winner Take All	Books	1	15	17	N	Y	Appallingly bad!	Based on the glowing customer reviews, I purchased this book only to find it cliched, even trite. But even more appalling was the sloppy editing, the  endless typos, and the amateurish page layout. Were there an option for no  stars or minus stars, this would-be suspense novel would fall into that  below-acceptable category. At $25 this book is overpriced and decidedly not  worth the money. Rarely am I tempted to be so harsh about another writer's  work, but don't be misled by those glowing reviews! This book just isn't  worth the money.	2000-06-13
US	52921362	R3GSMR8QI4NXUO	189583709X	527568833	Paul's Case: The Kingston Letters	Books	5	4	15	N	N	A brave and brilliant creation	Before I say anything, I must confess that Lynn Crosbie is a dear and valued friend.  However, that does not prejudice my response to this book.  Dealing with perhaps the most sensational pair of murderers in Canada's history, Lynn has created a series of 52 fictional &quot;letters&quot; that address every conceivable issue and character involved in the crimes.  A poet, her language is spare and elegant; her narrative, amazingly, contains snippets of humor that startle the reader.  It also contains powerful insights into the minds of both the victims and their killers.  For sheer inventiveness, for its remarkable use of language, and for its potent insights, I applaud this book.  Charlotte Vale Allen	1997-12-10
