US	52934760	R3A0U2ZB31V0BH	014018371X	751067545	Nostromo: A Tale of the Seaboard (Classic, 20th-Century, Penguin)	Books	5	4	6	N	N	a fascinating and hopeless account of revolutionaries	This is a bitter and brutal book.  Conrad is not an easy read, but this book is probably one of his most accessable and my own personal favorite.  Written in 1904 its prophetic content amazes with the accuracy of its narrative.  It focuses on the absurd country of Costaguana, a small Central or South American nation constantly changing governments through bloody revolutions and constantly being plundered by foreign interests (The United States, England and France). and how these interlopers assist the revolutions and help to slaughter the citizens so they can exert even more control over the nations through puppet dictators that are overthrown by more agreeable puppet dictators, and on and on and on, ad infinitum.  No single character has a happy outcome, no one seems to ever experience joy as greed and power-hunger and passion and lust and paranoia  corrupt every one in their own unique ways.  Mandatory reading for anyone wishing to understand Central American dictator! ! ships and how life in countries like Guatemala or Nicaragua got to be so helpless and cruel.  A masterpiece.	1998-07-14
US	52934760	R1GBOE1W6G05AA	0451526503	474714897	The Adventures of Huckleberry Finn: Revised Edition (Signet Classics)	Books	5	0	1	N	N	perhaps the greatest American novel	All right, this is a rather subjective viewpoint.  I could say, IN MY OPINION--but what's the purpose.  Surely one of the best known and most readily acknowledged American classics, there is more to this book than all the tame discriptions and virulent hate mail imply.  It is a rather bleak, desolate tail about two people running away from the world.  The only problem is, they have no where to go.  Let's ignore the so-called contoversy surrounding this book.  It is idiotic, as nowhere in this book is it implied that the racist attitudes of some of the characters is a good thing.  Twain was a master of dialect and speech patterns and this was, ultimately, a story about the evils of slavery and the hopelessness of many who tried to run away.  Huck grows to truly love Jim.  In the end, he is his only friend, the only person he trusts, the only person who has ever been good to him.  Cherished characters like Tom Sawyer are distorted into manifest destiny oriented monsters, politicians of the day always trying to trick people and bend them into their will for a laugh or a selfish end.  Yet Huck remains a conscientous person, seeing the evils of slavery, the cruelty of Tom's behavior, the ills of the world, the pointlessness of what his own life has thus far amounted to.  A word can be used with many meanings.  The controversy of this book, raging since its publication, is based solely on the USE of this word, not its context, not its implications within the narrative.  This book is one of the most savage indictments of institutional racism one could ever hope to come across, yet people who refuse to read it out of fear of getting their feelings hurt or their political agendas ruffled, are missing out on this point.  Twain suffered through this book.  He set it aside for several years after a certain point, not knowing how to end it, getting more and more unhappy with the state of the Reconsruction.  There is a rather bleak punch-line at the end of the book.  Huck still wants to live his brief happiness w! ith Jim, run away again to escape society's expectations of how people are supposed to be.  He thinks about &quot;light(ing) out for the territory ahead of the rest&quot;.  Twain knew, by the time he wrote the book, the territory was no more, already plundered by the government and the corporate interests.  Huck's next journey would be just as pointless, just as ultimately meaningless as this river ride down the Ole Miss.	1998-07-07
US	52934760	R1U4J1AHCH2SK9	044022165X	511419057	The Rainmaker	Books	2	1	3	N	N	500+ pages of . . . huh?	It is a testament to the great, all powerful Grisham that I actually sat and read this entire boring hunk of poopy ca-ca.  I'm even getting bored now, trying to think of something to say about this.  Did anyone think for a second that Rudy wouldn't beat the evil insurance co. AND get the poor little abused wifey in the end?  Maybe the Jon Voight character could've sprouted vampire fangs or something. this book literally hypnotized me into thinking about leprechauns. Come on people, think!  The only reason to destroy Oswald's note was because it probably warned of the attack on JFK!  Now we're through the looking glass here people . . .	1998-06-28
US	52934760	R2K5330KABGAED	0385474466	599805840	Case Closed: Lee Harvey Oswald and the Assassination of JFK	Books	5	0	7	N	N	a wonderful parody of your run-of-the-mill conspiracy book	Let me begin by saying I do not agree with Posner's conclusions about the assassination.  But that takes a back seat to my sheer enjoyment of this book.  I tend to look at this, as well as Killing the Dream, as a book within the now well funded &quot;conspiracy&quot; genre.  What Posner does in this book is take the exact presentation of several other books on the case (granted, some of the loonier versions) and rewrites them with his debunking end.  And it's funny, it's entertaining, the fact that Posner is infinately a better writer than most of the pro-conspiracy authors is likely what led his version to be so widely accepted.  But I no longer read these books as necessarily non-fiction.  Too many ridiculous claims and too many uptight denials have cured me of that idea.  What's the point in getting angry at someone's conclusions?  It is just another theory.  But the pitch-perfect presentation of this book, from the re-tellings of events from a different point of view than conspiracy theorists are used to, to the smug, grating little one liners of vicious attack side-commentary that pepper virtually every single conspiracy book, Case Closed becomes a satire, and a pretty good one at that.  While Jim Marrs (the author Posner most readily imitates) goes on and on with various and sometimes conflicting theories (although Crossfire is more of a primer of the numerous theories), Posner tries to sarcastically discredit each of these ideas.  Sure he lets his facts lag, sure he ignores certain statements and seemingly irrefutable evidence, but most conspiracy authors also ignore the endlessly changing stories of alleged witnesses, and take out of context whatever pressured statements someone made the 37th time they were interviewed as proof of their claims.  Hey, we're likely to never resolve this dispute.  I am generally on the side of the conspiracy theorists.  But this is the finest example of &quot;the offical version&quot; and it is one hell of a lot of fun.  Looking at it from this point of view, i! t ceases to be the ultimate evil to the paranoid mind.	1998-06-26
US	52934760	R80X3LKEA9DCW	1576730360	129268418	I Kissed Dating Goodbye: A New Attitude Toward Relationships and Romance	Books	2	0	8	N	N	hilarious homo-erotic text on how to &quot;love&quot; Jesus	I didn't read this book with any high expectations.  I found the topic intriguing and figured I'd see what it was about.  What turns up is a joyously hysterical book of nonesense, damning people who choose to date seriously, giving no honest reason within its context to ever meet a mate and settle down and marry and basically tells you all you need for companionship is The Lord.  I won't criticize this concept, although it would be easy.  It then goes into basically homo-erotic subtext explaining why God is the greatest lover until you can either laugh at the absurdity (as I did) or be repelled by the uncomfortable silliness of this obsessive rant.  A despicable book.  Not one star because I laughed and I laughed and I laughed and I laughed.	1998-06-26
US	52934760	R2QZS3CQ9NQSOH	0679735771	92932803	American Psycho	Books	4	3	8	N	N	fascinating yet with obvious flaws	Granted, this is not a masterpiece.  There are many problems with the story, the plot, the presentation, I could go on and on with tame literary terms to pan certain aspects of this book.  But you can't stop reading.  It is such a plunge down deep into horrific psychosis, into numb indifference, into wonderfully creative scenes of endless violence, that there's no real reason to give this book a bad review.  It is a cruel and heartless satire of those who would give this book a bad review.  Of their uptight, stuffed-shirt condesention.  There are rather profound depictions of the utter shallowness that passed for 1980s hipster pop culture.  Those three chapters on Patrick's musical tastes are a fine example.  Genesis better after Peter Gabriel?  Huey Lewis and the News as the stars of our generation?  These are jokes.  Obviously, only the most vapid of people would agree with these assessments, and further, they are wirtten like reviews of albums out of shallow magazines like Spin or Rolling Stone.  The further one gets into this book, the more we get the joke.  It is all a joke.  The 1980s were a cutthroat, savage time of greed and self-absorbsion.  Patrick Bateman is the 80s everyman.  Sure, not too many of us fed starving rats up cheese smeared tubes inside handcuffed prisoners, but the idea of the dog-eat-dog cruelty is the point.  Sure, the book gets dull in stretches, but the time was dull, shroaded as it was in endless shallowness and stupidity.  The music of the time, captured for what is was so well in all of Ellis' books, is a valid summation of what this book is about.  The over-the-top violence forms into a cadence of emotional neglegence and inability to express one's self.  This is what happens, this is what goes on inside our minds in this desperate effort to get ahead, to smash the competetion, to destroy everything in your path because you want something and you want it now.  Don't condemn this book because of the violence or the cold, indifferent writing.  It is not meant to offend!  you or scare you or say women are bad and we should kill them.  This was a typical knee-jerk 80s inspired reaction to this book that certain social interest groups latched onto in a hardly veiled effort to censor someone.  Moreover, this book is a reflection of America in the time it depicts.  No one has the right to deny this.  No one has the right to censor it.  Avoid the book by all costs if you have a weak stomach or like to read more pleasent things--but, if you are one of those awful people who would rather see this book burned, banned, pulled from the shelves, forgotten and condemned, well then, how are you really any different from Patrick Bateman?	1998-06-24
US	52934760	RRZ53C8BT39BW	0452275725	978016456	World's Fair	Books	4	3	7	N	N	pleasant yet very tame	This is a nice enough book.  The time and the place are recreated miticulously, from throw-away references to popular items and ideas of the day, to sprawling detail of monuments and individuals.  All this is fine and good and it's very well written.  But the plot is just so damn tame.  It's all too gushy and feel-goody and nostalgia for the &quot;good ole days&quot; that were obviously hell, the depression looming, war on the horoizon, people with nothing to do and nowhere to go and we're given this teary-eyed, Spielbergian child's eye view of the world.  Again, it's wrapped up neatly and told pretty vividly, but I just wish there were some real sort of conflict, not just 'what will mother think?'  Doctorow was much better in The Book of Daniel and Ragtime.  Read this only if you're a fan, and you've run out of his better works, or have some strage attachment to the 1939 World's Fair.	1998-06-02
US	52934760	R2HHE2DHUWUQPX	0060977493	521720988	The God of Small Things	Books	4	0	0	N	N	a beautiful and irritating book	This is a lovely little book.  It is wonderfully written, with a very original narrative structure.  It blossoms and flowers throughout, repeating the same story in numerous different ways.  It is hard not to respect this book, and its author, tremendously.  However, there are times, certain flows of prose, that kind of make you cringe.  Ms. roy is apparently quite aware of her ability as a writer and seems intent on showing it off.  Certain passages flow out, metamorphizing into endless descriptions, inventive, stylistic ranges of beauty.  Then, just as a capper, she puts the best line of an endless riff on whatever it may be, and removes it from its parent paragraph so it can shine all on its own as a short, one-sentance paragraph.  This is fine in and of itself, but it is obviously a conscious manuver, the same effect of highlighting what you think is your best work and showing it off.  It cuts the statement away from what created it and interrupts the flow of language.  It seems boastfully, painfully arrogant.  It's a shame.  Without these occasional flights from the story, I would have absolutely loved this book.	1998-05-25
US	52934760	RLOXQCBKWAVO1	0684808196	280599935	Pillar of Fire: America in the King Years 1963-65	Books	5	0	0	N	N	a wonderful continuation of a stirring, heroic epic	Picking up where we left off in the supurb Parting the Waters, the book's first chapter introduces the rising struggle for recognition of Elijah Muhummad's Nation of Islam.  After religious services at a Los Angles Mosque, Chief Parker's strongarm crew stomps around outside and causes a whole lot of trouble.  An ensuing riot followed, leaving several people dead and many more wounded.  There were many arrests and only the Muslims were charged with murder.  This tale leads to the growing notoriety of Malcolm X and his eventual split with the Nation of Islam, which lead, most likely, to his murder.  Then the book branches out to many other areas, from St. Augustine, Florida, the continent's oldest city, to brutality in Alabama and Mississippi.  The only trouble with the book, is Branch's primary focus on Martin Luther King.  Not that these stories aren't fascinating, but the intrigue and dangerous plots of the Nation of Islam split is far more interesting.  Perhaps it's just me, with my utter fascination with behind-the-scenes spy games and hit squads, but J. Edgar Hoover and a paranoid Lyndon Johnson, screaming into telephones with highly classified information that, only now, thirty-two years after the fact someone (Mr. Branch in this case) had the energy and the wisdom  to interpret with seemingly objective storytelling.  These books are actually just one long, continuous book, stopping and starting as our faithful historian brackets off the fourteen years however he sees fit to start and stop with specific eras.  I am eagerly awaiting At Caanan's Edge in a few years time.	1998-05-22
US	52934760	RNIO6ND8WEK5A	156731239X	793284806	Screenplay: The Foundations of Screenwriting	Books	5	4	7	N	N	a wonderfully subtle information manuel	Usually one should be skeptical of any book that claims to tell you how something should be written.  Creative writing courses are essentially scams, intruments of brainwashing telling you what the proper way to write is supposed to be, and why you are wrong for showing any undilineated creativity.  Syd Field, however, boosts the fundamentals of creativity, not telling you how to write your screenplay, simply making suggestions and proposing guidelines you should follow in the pre-writing period, how to outline your ideas so you won't forget or misplace something, how to structure your thoughts.  This is almost a mathematical logic textbook, an 'I wish you luck' pat on the back.  Syd never preaches, never says there is a wrong way to approach your story (although he does explain some of the cut-throat tactics of Hollywood and advises you how to skirt the single-minded, dictatorial machinations of Studio bosses.)  Finally, Syd's technique is firmly in line with the era of Hollywood's final Golden age, 1967-1976 (the time when this book was written), when Butch Cassidy and The Sundance Kid, Network, Taxi Driver, Chinatown, and more were being flashed on the screen, letting the viewer realize that there is more to making a movie that good acting and slick direction.  This book helps you to explore what you really want your movie to be about in that easy time, before the egos set in, before your script is changed or stolen and made into the mess that finally wins you an Oscar.	1998-05-05
US	52934760	RPVTSC4S4HU32	0446673943	391191295	Orders to Kill: The Truth Behind the Murder of Martin Luther King, Jr	Books	4	3	7	N	N	a simutaneously fascinating and boring book	William Pepper knows more than most people about the King assassination.  He has been dilagent in his research and efforts to uncover the truth about his long wrongly incarcerated client, James Earl Ray.  Of course, Ray has recently died and the courts will likely use this as the final excuse to make all this noise go away.  But it doesn't change the fact that this book exists, regardless of how little attention has been paid to it since publication.  There are some wild theories speculated upon in the text, but the full circle appraoch Pepper uses makes you start to see his logic.  Whether his ultimate theory is true or not, it finally proves irrelevent as you see the lengths the Tennassee state and the federal government have gone to suppress evidence and ignore constitutional rights.  Even if Ray was guilty, there is no excuse for the sinister plots hatched by high-level individuals to keep these ideas out of the media and to toss them out of court.  If Ray's gun is so obviously the murder weapon, why not allow the testing to be completed?  If the case is such a sure shot done deal with the murderer in jail and now gone, why not allow the trial?  Too much public sentiment, including Dr. King's own wife and children, don't believe the official conclusions.  It is tragic that close-minded people will not even deign to look at some of Pepper's new evidence and they stubbornly insist that this is all taken care of and shut up people, shut up America, we know what's right for you.  The further you get in this book, the more suspicious you are likely to become.  Of course, the book is not without its flaws.  In a reversal of Gerald Posner's chief flaw (his unquestioned belief in anything any government person says), Pepper seems too willing to disregard 30 years of lies and changing stories and accredit only the story that fits hhis theory.  usually, he tries to accept the most recent telling of a story from certain alledged co-conspirators, but if the new story doesn't work for him, he relies on the o! lder story (not the oldest because that is now a proven lie, according to Pepper.)  Also, Posner is a wonderful writer, churning out pitch-perfect satires of conspiracy books, mocking the style and conventions of this now established genre.  Pepper, well, he's not much of a writer.  The book drags and occasionally contridicts itself only to re-contradict itself later on when an editor likely told him about this.  He uses this technique to establish his growing state of mind and his altering beliefs as his investigation continues.  Unfortunately, it's rather confusing.  The book is almost too self-interested, employing a pretentious first-person narration like it's not about the King assassination at all, it's not about James Earl Ray's wrongful imprisonment, but is the tale of an epic quest by the only man brave enough to take on the powers that be.  This, I have to say, is the greatest flaw in this otherwise very important and very relevent book.	1998-05-01
US	52934760	R3O8SIBI8DSX3L	0553212168	569503661	The Brothers Karamazov (Bantam Classics)	Books	5	2	3	N	N	a glorious masterpiece	This book is one of those rare treasures of literature.  It is a masterful study of a time and a place and of people and their society down to the most seemingly insignificant detail.  Of course, this may sound daunting, boring, horribly intimidating (936 pages in this edition, in fact), but you can strip all the psychology and thematics and anti-socialist rhetoric and simply focus on the plot.  It is one of the most exciting books ever written, a deep, dark probing of awful, selfish, greedy people and how they all try to screw each other out of something each one holds dear to themselves just so they can prove that they are the superior.  Written as almost seperate psychological case studies mixed in with courtroom drama and theological debate, the book, even more than 100 years since its publication, still has the power to shock, to make you think, to make you possibly even reconsider some of your own most fervently held beliefs.  And if that isn't your bag, you can always enjoy some wonderful cruelty, some dazzling evil and some down right hilarious atomizing of specific cultural stereotypes while you shudder and sympathize with the ultimate hopeless tragedy of all these character's lives.  If you've always thought you've wanted to read at least one of the great Russian novels, ignore Tolstoi (although great, rather tedious at times) and cruise right into Dostoyevsky, sailing right to the end of his life with this, his final and greatest book.--Lance Polin	1998-04-04
US	52934760	RW1F0AAOS3AGE	0684844281	357972578	Ronald Reagan	Books	2	6	26	N	N	Vile lies and propaganda	There is one, single core truth in this book.  When it is discussed that Reagan was a master at manipulating the press, congress, the senate--and anyone else who would try to argue with him--he would put on the dumb act.  No one will truthfully say that Ronald Reagan is/was a stupid man.  In fact, this current Alzheimer's ordeal, I believe, is merely an extention of this technique to keep historians away with the same sleazy &quot;I . . .I don't remember&quot; nonesense he baldly shoved in our faces about the Iran/Contra scandel.  You remember, when Ronnie and Georgie and Ollie and all those other great patriots bought and sold drugs for guns and money and more gold for their own private wealth.  This book is the worst sort of propaganda, Goebbels-like.  Reagan, in fact, brought back the Cold War with his trapped in the 50s ideology, his Hollywood blacklisting credentials and the hey!  Them coloreds down close in poor, tiny countries must be Communists under Russia.  If Reagan had had a little more compassion, and not the psychotic, paranoid fear that truly was uncalled for, perhaps the legacy of the 1980s would not be one of greed, indifference and bloody, ruthless violence, but a time of peace, a time of coming together, a time for the world to stop bitching at each other over whatever ridiculous, relgious differences they always seem to have, and get down to the business of running separate nations, not a quest for global domination.  Sure, I guess this makes me a 'dove' according to the author.  In fact, not many people were as glad as I was when Communism died in the Soviet Union.  But, according to people as diverse as former CIA director Gates and others from the Reagan/Bush years, the 1980s were some of the most dangerous times of the entire Cold War.  This is due entirely to Ronald Reagan's intolerance and total desire to be king of the world.  Sure, the economy was strong under Reagan, but his economic policies crumbled pretty quickly under his successor.This is because there was nothing!  there other than Junk bonds and unfettered greed and it was bound to happen to whomever the next president was.  Ironic that it was Mr. Reagan II.  The book is well written, at least I'll give it that, but it is a clearly biased, nonsensical portrait that only true Reagan lovers could believe.	1998-03-28
US	52934760	R2SFO4GJMQY74A	0520204727	291670755	Senator Joe McCarthy	Books	4	13	32	N	N	an interesting  but dated biography	No one will be offended by Rovere's much-racking depiction of Joseph McCarthy.  Seriously, how many people are there left in America, or anywhere around the world, still willing to stand up and smugly look you in the eye and say Joseph McCarthy was a necessary man fighting for American freedom in a time when Communists were hiding in every shadow?  But the book, written in 1959, just isn't all that up-to-date.  Of course much of the information we now know was suppressed at that time and J. Edgar Hoover--viciously complict in the development of all the Red Scare and blacklisting craziness--was still in power at the time of publication.  Nobody would want to make an enemy of Hoover, so anything dealing with McCarthy and Hoover's contact is treaded over very lightly.  This, unfortunately, makes the book somewhat inaccurate, which is a shame because so many dark secrets and shameful public deeds are recorded with a passion and an obvious intense desire to destroy the image of the drunken old demogogue.  In 1959, just three years after McCarthy's death, and five years after his disgrace, this was an important book because so many people were still unsure of their opinions towards Tailgunner Joe.  I imagine that this book made quite a difference as even Hoover himself took the opportunity to smear the late Senator, drawing comparisons to Krushchev's posthumous denunciation of Stalin.  The book is certainly worthwhile for anyone interested in a recreation of the terror of the 1950s, written from the perspective of the 1950s, but there are several more contemporary biographies of Joseph McCarthy and, regardless of the fact that this one is likely written with more beautific prose, in a case study like this, information beats out pretty words every time.--Lance Polin	1998-03-27
US	52934760	R2HCICD0QFWZO2	0451407474	359716484	Goddess: The Secret Life of Marilyn Monroe	Books	4	9	9	N	N	a chilling, hilarious theory	I devour paranoid alternative history.  Mostly, I tend to be attracted to political histories, but, truth be told, Goddess IS a political history.  Oh, sure, sure, it brushes past all the misery that was the poor, sad woman's early life.  It gets more specific when she started associating with the gods.  No one is portrayed in a particularly good light and Marilyn is merely the helpless victim of a harsh, cold, unloving world. Based on Summers' apparent fascination with a period of American history (books on the Kennedy Assassination and J. Edgar Hoover), obviously the bulk of the book is on those shallow, tense three years when Camelot was more than just a drunken Richard Harris forgetting song lyrics.  And it truly is a tragedy, a murky underworld of shadow titans who dangle the destinies of the weak-willed and the uncertain minds.  Summers is a gifted writer and he's excellent at recreating the atmosphere of Monroe's life.  The only problem, really, with this book is that it refuses to answer several of the questions it poses, namely, RFK's possible involvement in the likely murder of Ms. Monroe.  Summers seems too involved with not besmirching the golden view he'd previously expressed of the Kennedys in Conspiracy (1980) to even make mention of this theory much beyond saying that some people believe it.  Unfortunately , this is a crushing blow to the credibility of the book.  Regardless of how outrageous certain claims are, Summers manages to field a good many and back them up with a believe-it-or-not list of interviewees and facts. But by ignoring some of the seamier details of certain opinions, by not addressing them even to disprove, the book finally reads like a Valentine fused indelibly with Kennedy family propaganda.      Lance Polin	1998-03-18
US	52934760	RLGKSWQ2PU2HO	0451191153	594264062	The Fountainhead	Books	4	0	0	N	N	a lot of problems	Certainly this is a powerful and, obviously, an enduring book.  It is a gigantic, massive moreso treatease than novel.  Every single page is drenched in Rand's philosophy and, after a while you are tempted to go find her grave, dig her up and rattle her crumbling bones and scream almighty high that hey!  I get it it!  OK?  OK?  I understand your goddamn point now could you please get on with it or stop passing off your fifty page novella as a 700-page plus work of fiction and please please please just allow something to happen more frequently than once every fifty or sixty pages?  Also, one reviewer made a comment that I found rather amusing.  Just think about what they said.  Something to the effect that this book changed their life and taught them how to think, told them how to think and not to buy into what anyone else says.  A wonderful moral, but let's count how many of these reviews spout literal gospel of Rand's philosophies.	1998-03-12
US	52934760	R2E658DDJ6Y6H9	0606034293	160336401	Go Ask Alice	Books	4	0	1	N	N	well-meaning propoganda	I do not believe that this book, the specific story it tells, is in any way an individual account of a specific truth.  This book is pure anti-drug propaganda.  Sure, sure, it's a good cause and hopefully has helped some distraught youths and , perhaps, some older folk as well.  But the insidious thing, the lie, the aggrived, tormented, emotional vaccuum we are stuffed into by this simple-minded prose and the actual realization that some government official, some humped up guy in a quiet, Justice Department office in 1960, 1970, whatever was hunched over his desk, chirping this out in a writing style he no doubt lifted from his anguished daughter's break-up letters with her thirteen year old boyfriend.  What a laugh riot he must have had intermixing the terribly sad, tragic case histories with the quivering outrage of an 'I know you we talking to Bridget!' page and a half.  It's a good book, and don't allow my diversionary tactics to dissuade you from reading it and don't allow my ideas to anger you if you need help.  Just know the truth.	1998-03-07
US	52934760	R34EVFG8BFG6JH	0446391301	890882757	Geek Love	Books	4	0	1	N	N	a good book occasionally marred by awful writing	I wanted to like this book a lot more than I did.  It seemingly has many of the elements I look for in fiction: strong plot, absorbing characters, shocking horror and vivid descriptions of evil and debautchery.  I love that sort of thing.  I find many reviews here criticizing books for their darkness, for their lack of a neat, tidy, packaged, tacked on happy ending so the reader can go away feeling all is right in the world.  This form of insipidness is frustrating because it narrows the scope of so many people, forcing them to shun something most likely better and more lasting than whatever cheery nonesense they snuggle up with an hour before bedtime, sucking all veracity from their dreams and trapping them in a schizophenic, skipping record of the same unrealistic thing over and over and over again.  Of course Geek Love isn't especially realistic.  But, within the context of the story, with a fully heightened suspension of disbelief we settle into taking for granted that someone has telekinetic powers, that someone has developed mental domination abilities, that everyone is schemeing and out to get everyone else and the weak or the kind-hearted are destined for misery.  Stripping away the actions, the motivations are very real and the pain suffered by everyone should strike chords with anyone who's ever lived in a family.  The main problem, however, is that Ms. Dunn just isn't a very good writer.  Oh, she can tell a story pretty well and make it original and unique, but she has a self-indulgent inclination to go off on these philosophical passages, superficially in the narrator's voice, and muddle them up on top of that.  These passages, usually taking up the first few paragraphs of a new chapter, are just horrible.  Nonesensical gibberish, flowing like a rusty old garden hose with so many holes poked in it hardly anything trickles out the proper end.  Perhaps Ms. Dunn felt she was being lyrical, felt there needed to be some superfluous explaination of the narrator's feelings after relating a particularly awful event, but these brief passages make no sense in the long run, with feux-beutific lines and rambling mish-mosh prose.  I liked the book, but at times I got so annoyed with this presumption, I considered setting it aside, possibly to wrap up and give to one of my more pretentious friends who looks for deep meaning in every petty thing.	1998-02-25
US	52934760	R1UTQGK784B628	0380012863	129257055	Jonathan Livingston Seagull	Books	1	11	23	N	N	abyssmal nonesense on par with Dianetics	This book is a piece of trash.  I feel that nothing other than such a blunt remark justifies my feelings towards this mish-mash of bogey, high-faultin' pretention and early 70s self-help gibberish.  Clearly, this tripe hooked on to the swinging trend of cascading times when mid-life crisis was hitting people from 16 to 76.  It will take the reader about an hour to puff through the briefness on nothingness with such inspired pages like &quot;Johnathan Livingston Seagull flies!&quot; on a page with a picture of the bird soaring off high into the sky.  Real deep.  The basic, Scientology inspired motivation is keen wrapped around something passed off by its publisher as literature about you and me and us and them when, in reality, it is about Richard Bach's own trifling human insecurities and his pompous belief that if he feels it, we all do.  Surely most authors have such pretentions, but most are able to wrap a story around it so we can ignore it all the way through.	1998-02-24
US	52934760	RIQ7OLVIZEYWW	0670878812	210313938	Riven Rock	Books	5	6	6	N	N	A vastly entertaining, painful, tragic story	I must admit to a personal bias here: I am a gigantic fan of Mr. Boyle's.  And while I haven't read every one of his books, I've blasted through a majority and loved every single page.  When I saw this book in a store on a random wandering, I snatched it up, read the inside cover and prepared myself for what sounded like Boyle's best work to date.  Unfortunately, I was a trifle disappointed, knocking this down to oh say number three of all I've read by him.  But there much to admire here, from the glowing, crystal prose to the almost grotesque humor squeezed in between pages and pages of heart-rending sadness.  The basic plot, taken very loosely from an actual historical incident, revolves around the handsome, wealthy, Stanley McCormick and the lovely, brilliant (and also wealthy upper class early 20th century) Katherine Dexter, who meet in 1904, fall in love and, after a few hitches, are married.  But Stanley is very ill, mentally that is, and he pops over the edge from so many different things you know everything that follows will be a disaster.  Stanley has deep sexual problems and before the anticipant, virginal Katherine can be defrocked, Stanley is carted off to the nuthouse, prescribed to never set eyes on women.  This lasts for more than twenty years with Katherine being essentially faithful (spending most of her time as a leading spokesperson for the Sufferage movement and other women's right's causes) and hoping that one day Stanley will return to her.  The story also focuses on Eddie O'Kane, Stanley's faithful nurse through all his years of institutionalization and his highs and lows and shattered dreams and shattered bones and the whole mess he's made of his life by thinking his natural charm and wit and good luck will be enough for him to always have everything he ever wants.  Eddie's tale is a downward spiral, and endless fall into unhappiness, abondonment, alcoholism and financial ruin, all the while trying diligently and sincerely to look after his insane employer and friend.  The only complaint I could possibly lob at this wonderful book has to do with Boyle's writing style, something that has been so successful in the past and still is a pleasure to behold.  Ever since World's End(1987), Boyle's stories have gotten more serious, I don't want to say more mature, but perhaps there isn't an adaquete word to express this idea.  His earliest work was more like bawdy farce and broad satire, but his latest (The Road to Wellville, The Tortilla Curtain, Without a Hero) have been much sadder, stories where you sort of hope things will turn out all right for everyone.  In his earlier work, the characters were either such over-the-top morons or such pathetic losers, hell, what should they expect?  But his style has always been sharp and funny and very witty.  In this book, perhaps a more overall serious tone would have worked better and enhanced the feeling of tragedy.  But, then again, this obviously wasn't Boyle's intention and who am I to question his style when the book is such a success?	1998-02-20
US	52934760	R5DP28Z0CXTL5	0671687425	267532725	Parting the Waters : America in the King Years 1954-63	Books	5	3	3	N	N	a vast, comprehensive epic	I began this book not especially interested in the history of the civil rights movement.  I, over the past few years, have become something of a Cold War history buff, researching important events on both sides of the Iron Curtain and trying to piece them together into a comprehensive narrative.  Since Parting the Waters covers an important timespan of American Cold War history, I figured, what the hell, I'll get some dirt and a greater understanding of a specific American struggle.  Once I began, there was no stopping.  At over 900 pages, it is certainly a daunting undertaking, but the past comes alive in a thouroughly engrossing and utterly fascinating epic of the horrors and triumphs of the early years of the struggle for freedom.  From Alabama courtrooms where a black man is sentenced to death for stealing $1.98 from a white man to the march on Washington, every major event (at least as far as I know as I was neither born during this time nor have I ever been further south than South Carolina--excepting Miami, but how southern is Miami?) that shook the world to a greater understanding and a more fully balanced conscience.  I must applaud the author for making this wonderful book so tremendously engaging and exciting.  It is an accomplished, well-researched, absolutely deserving masterpiece of histoical writing that pulls everything into the appropriate context, anti-Communist fervor and all.--Lance Polin	1998-02-09
US	52934760	RVHY3PGEYW2N5	0292710836	934453111	The CIA in Guatemala: The Foreign Policy of Intervention	Books	3	22	31	N	N	a fact-filled disappointment	This is a useful book.  It is very well researched, extraordinarily documented and tells you essentially anything you need to know about the CIA's plot to overthrow the Arbenz government in Guatemala.  Unfortunately, the writing is so turgid and dull it's difficult not to nod off in the middle of a particularly gritty section of history.  I applaud Immerman's effort and the completeness of his overall work, but he really should have taken on a jounrnalist to help him get through the rough spots and make the book actually readable.	1998-01-27
US	52934760	RV8Q3W3UY7EH8	0140042598	303305496	On the Road (Penguin Orange Collection)	Books	1	19	27	N	N	a classic example of awful writing	You never want to dig out those unreal phrases like &quot;best ever&quot; or &quot;worst ever&quot; because no one has read everything.  But this is surely the worst example of writing I have ever encountered.  It reads like exactly what it is: a stoned, egotistical rant by someone incapable of expressing himself comprehensibily.  It drones on and on endlessly for such a short tract.  I've never understood the almost religious fervor so many people associate with this nonesense.  Kerouac really had no ability.  He got an idea, clouded over with the shattered haze of his &quot;non-conformist&quot; mind and puked it up onto the page.  Some may snap their fingers in a retro beatnik hipster slang and bee-bop along through this identity crisis and croon: 'Dig, man, that's the squee-squeelin' point, brother,' but, hopefully they'll realize what they've just said and laugh at themselves, returning somehow to a world where communication matters and distorted images of solipsistic rhythm will grind themselves down to the putrid puddle of ashes a gleefully burned copy of this outrageous piece of trash should rightly become.  The only worthwhile mention involved with this goofy spatter is it's obvious historical impact.  But for that might I recommend any non-fictional work on the beat poets.  To the uninitiated: Stay away from everything written by all of these so-called cultural icons, none of them had any ability, just rage they didn't understand or know what to do with.  If you must read this for a class and a teacher is really into it I can merely offer my condolances.  That was my situation a few years back and the whole experience has left a scar on my conscious mind (no doubt a deeper, darker wound upon the unconscious.)  Just tell them the truth, tell them there is nothing here, nothing to be seen.  Move along, citizen, move along.	1998-01-23
US	52934760	R3G0VGDEOFS65G	0440174643	633917650	Roots (Dell Book)	Books	5	1	2	N	N	a summation of a too-common American history	There is a scene near the end when Chicken George returns from his years overseas to be granted his promised freedom from his Master, who is also his father.  During the time George has been away, Master, once a champion breeder of fighting roosters, has fallen on hard times.  His wife has died, his farm has dried up, he's had to sell most of his slaves (including George's family) and he's become a fall down, drunken husk of his former self.  Master was always a cruel man, but he always had a kind eye for George, his son and champion cock trainer.  When George returns, Master is thrilled to see him.  He has forgotten even what it was like to be successful, and George is a striking memory of better times.  He is thrilled to see him, extravagently delighted, having likely even forgotten George existed over all those years.  Master is feeling awfully lonely, so he finally unburdens himself and admits he is George's father.  It is a sad scene, tragic, overwhelmingly poignant.  When a book that essentially sets out to condemn slavery while telling exactly what it was like with no editorializing, can muster up the courage to put you inside the Master's head, to allow you to feel almost sorry for the old man, that explains some of the power of this work.  I found myself, despite myself, sympathizing with poor Master, wondering what was to become of him.  Then, and only then, after a few moments of silent contemplation, can you realize who it is that you are crying over and get back into the story.  And while not a pure non-fictional take on Haley's own family, it branches out to be a likely story of most any slaves.  How they got here, how they were treated, what agonies they went through.  The only thing made-up, I believe, is the dialogue, because no one had enough interest in taking account of what the slaves were saying, so these lost words are gone forever, remade into what Haley himself might have said had he been frightened and had he been a slave and had his entireworld been destroyed, forcing him into an irreversable situation.  This is a definative history of just what it was to be a slave in America.	1998-01-13
US	52934760	R2USHGG5L1P95O	0452269571	906896717	Bastard Out of Carolina	Books	5	3	4	N	N	simutaneously bleak, depressing, moving and inspiring	I've never understood why people pan and/or disregard books because of bleakness.  It seems absurd to me, that a sad story should become something worthy of scorn.  I see all over the place, here, at this on-line, interactive bookstore, people raging against the &quot;unlikability&quot; of a character, or the &quot;worthlessness&quot; of certain stereotypes evoked in someone's work.  This book uses stereotypes.  There is a reason for stereotypes.  They represent people's views of other people they do not know, people they never will know and would never want to meet.  Stereotypes, no matter how overboard or ridiculous have some basis in fact, someone, somewhere, from which ever group you might want to choose was exactly like that.  Stereotypes are an important tool to explain a character, a brief summation that all of us can easily focus to mind.  Bastard Out of Carolina is about lower-class, white trash Southern hicks, a group we here up North have been brainwashed into fearing and laughing at because they are so unlike us, so grimy and down in the dirt with the pigs and the cows and the muck and the slime.  But this book's true success is to grab us by the scruff of the neck and put us there in these people's lives, into the pathetic, wasteful, useless existence of these worthless people with no hope of ever accomplishing anything and then making us care about them, driving us deeper and deeper into their emotions until we realize that they aren't so different from the rest of us, from WE, the enlightened few who can truly 'understand' the world.  These are the kinds of lies we tell ourselves to keep away from realizing that everyone is, ultimately, the same and we all have the same bitterness, the same envies, the same dark urges and desires and we are all capable of the same terrifying acts that other people we root to be executed are guilty of committing.      Tragedy is the way of life, there are no true happy endings.  There is only hope, there is only getting over the misery of your barren life and striving forth ahead into a future that might not be quite so painful.  I resent it when people talk and talk of how they need a hero to root for, a happily ever after finale.  That is a pathetic delusion.  Life will always end with something unfinished, something you'll regret on your deathbed.  Deal with it and understand it and then maybe you can get beyond these fragile lies so you can truly enjoy the brief span of time you have to do as you like.  Nothing counts for anything so shut up and read a book like this!	1998-01-10
US	52934760	R3OI8M9QQWKVT9	0871136791	11590154	Cold Mountain	Books	4	0	0	N	N	a beautiful, gorgeous, put-you-to-sleep, nappy-time nothing	I liked this book.  Honestly.  It was beautifully written, a stunning piece of lush prose, bounching around and making the rest of us feel a little inadequte.  I have no problem with all the praise and wonder people have bestowed upon this book.  Mr. Frazier really can work those words into a maze of lovely intent and shattering sorrow.  But . . . Cutting away from all the literary bravara and ultimately showpiecemeal, there really are some long, boring passages that say absolutely nothing other than describing a breathtaking landscape and make the reader feel like they are there, breathing in that 1864 North Carolina mountain air.  This is all well and good, but after setting up what appears to be a story in the first, oh say 80 pages, we are shut off from the narrative and dive deeper and deeper into one of the author's obvious passions.  I understand that he lived somewhere around where the action takes place and that's fine too, but a novel is ultimately about the story and after a while you're bound to get bored.  The story runs away from itself, hackneyed, second-rate encounters with stereotypes and dull, endless travelogue sequences make most of the middle portion of this novel irrelevent.  I'm not criticizing this aspect per se, but with all I'd heard of this novel, I expected something a little more.  The first part of the book had me geared, ready to cry along with all the horror and tragedy this dilapidated universe has rampaged through these poor people's lives, but then the mountains took over, the title came through as the key, main character and there really, in the end, isn't much one can attribute to a mountain other than smokey, barren skies and natural beauty.  That I think sums up this book: a beautiful, timeless box wrapped with the most pain-staking care, something so lovely you don't even want to open it, fearing desicration.  But, your friend has gone through all this effort, has worked so long and hard to make this gift special to show you how much they care, how hard they worked to make you happy, so you open it, gently unfold that crisp, golden paper, and inside you find something you never really wanted, a boring present with no use that is brittle and sour and destined for that forgotten space up high in the coat closet, possibly wrapped back up with much less care sometime in the future to give to your sister's third husband as a separate gift at their wedding.	1998-01-10
US	52934760	R3BWPOFUH216HJ	0684842696	553694758	Underworld	Books	5	0	0	N	N	A dead-on take of the Cold War in America	Don DeLillo has long been one of my favorite authors.  He is one of the very few writers, along with James Ellroy, who can take the past, re-tell history as it actually happened, add a few fictitious characters into the mix and make reality all over.  One comes away from this book trying to remember Klara Sax, thinking, oh yeah, now I remember seeing one of her paintings in a gallery somewhere, once, a long time ago.  It makes you think of all those fogotten things, those tremors and shakes at night and the oh no, uh oh, the bomb the bomb the bomb is coming for us and we're all gonna die and help me and please and over and over and over again it shudders you back into that forgetful frame we all experienced during the Cuban Missile Crisis, the thoughts of Big Deal, ain't nothin' can happen to us.  We're Americans!      The book is great. Although rather long, it breezes by like a mugging, a stop-still moment of life that lasts forever in under a minute, trapped in this zone, this time, this memory that never really happened like that afterall.	1997-11-17
US	52934760	R1UWX2KJ93VI0A	0929408179	78166543	Civil War Two: The Coming Breakup of America	Books	3	5	25	N	N	Shows the comedy of a paranoid taking an idea to its extreme	There's a reason why I give this book a rather moderate review.  For sheer readability it certainly deserves higher.  Obviously my own personal biases about the topics discussed are going to cloud one's opinion of any matter, no matter what they may be.  Surely I think Chittum is going a bit far, especially in the timeline predictions of the fall of America.      But I don't doubt it's coming, I don't doubt a full-scale, massive race war will wipe out the government and make room for foreign powers to eventually move in and set up shop.  No, none of this is too far out, although not likely in the next 20 years, but everyone writing a bound to be contraversial book needs a hook or catch to summon up all the righteous converts to get up an army and live off in the mountains somewhere.  In fact, the over-the-top exaggeration I just set out is indicitive of the encroaching silliness and ghastly paranoia--all the more amusing by its hard-boiled tone--of this book.      It is very funny, but not particularly credible in its effort to pass itself off as a serious warning essay.      I don't want to imply that Chittum is a right-wing nut, or some frothing mouthed lunitic, just that the tone and lack of follow-up, coupled with a rely-on-my-opinions stance blows craters of relevence out of the work.      Chalk it up as a good futuristic thriller/apocaylpse novel taking itself way too seriously.	1997-10-27
US	52934760	RH3NO1CLLK5BF	0802130208	161411385	A Confederacy of Dunces	Books	4	2	3	N	N	reapprasial	You know, usually I wouldn't write a review like this, usually I wouldn't comment on anyone else's statements on a book, but hell, let's be honest: everyone who wrote anything about this book is either a benighted moron, or a cruel, vicious little person who gets off reading about other people's misery.      Most of the reviews are great, raving and ranting about the book's excellence.  yes, it's a good book.  But it is also a very sad book.  Most reviews talk about 'laugh out loud funny' and other cliched buzz phrases and it just doesn't apply to this book.  Sure, you may laugh at something here or there within, crack a smile, a grin, a hearty, wicked chortle.  But the book is about a fat, sick, crazy lunitic who's too smart and too paranoid and convinced that everyone in the world is out to get him.  Not the basis for hilarity, is it.  Sure, it could be made hilarious, with rampant exaggeration and skillfully making the character tremendously unlikeable, thereby changing the novel into a vicious comedy ripping this loser apart.  But Toole clearly felt affection towards his character.  He wanted things to turn out all right for him, but, based on his grounding the story in reality, that just didn't seem the way things should go.  It is not a comedy.  It is a tragedy with few moments of humor to lift the character's (and perhaps the reader's, but what writer really cares while writting a book what a general audience will think?)spirits or to give him a chance at laughing at himself and thereby restore some sense of humanity.      As for the people angry and disappointed that they didn't find the book funny--don't listen to what people say about anything, chances are you'll disagree.  Haven't you learned that by now?	1997-10-22
US	52934760	ROCE9U4HXH5A3	0451169522	916592852	Misery	Books	1	2	27	N	N	Dull, uneventful, worthless	The main problem with this book is that you just don't care about the fates of the characters.  Sure, you've got all the wham-bam gruesome action, some well-described scenes of torture, but even during these sequences where your interest should be at it's high-point, the mind tends to drift, to imagine alternate scenerios, to develop a better telling of the story itself.  Every dead-end page after every drudging leaf of cheap, sanitized paper it goes on and on and on and who the hell cares in the end?      Stephen King has never been a great writer, just a man with a fertile imagination and enough ability to get by with a fully created world.  But, when the story lacks depth or incident--like Misery--then all that scamming and lying to conning for prestige is gone and you're left with a hack churning out yet another volume of garbage.	1997-10-20
US	52934760	R3GM0F3VWA32UB	0449909336	378723538	The Fifties	Books	5	5	6	N	N	A summation of post-WWII totalitarianism	There is a great deal of fear in this book.  I don't quite know what it is, but the uneasy permutations of everything cruel and sinister since the end of World War II burst forth like a CIA operation to take hold of an impoverished nation.  It is a phenominal success.      Everything of note is covered, from waste-of-time significance with McDonald's and other numb American industries, to the vicious, self-serving overthrow of Arbenz in Guatemala-- everything detailed in this friendly book makes the reader more and more uncomfortible.  It stresses the agony people suffered when they chose not to be a stereotype.  It states what people were supposed to be, how they were supposed to act, whom they were supposed to emulate and, above all, what it is to be an American.  Halberstam does not editorialize.  Many people may read this book and come away with a bloated sense of nostalgia for the good old days, but, truth be told, he sets out to explain why the 1950s were the cruelest of decades.  Everything was set up and dictated, the popularization of television brainwashes the frightened people on the brink of nuclear desolation, hammer hammer hammer it in because who knows when the darn Ruskies are gonna blow us all to hell?      This is a book about fear.  It is a book about understanding.  It is a jaunt back to the recent past when things were normal and life wasn't worth living unless you were like everyone else.  This still persists today.  Prom queen/cheerleaders are elected to student council offices to represent the American norm and outsiders kill themselves in drunk driving 'accidents' and pathetic drug overdoses and slashed wrists.      The 50s is a landmark.  It shows where everything started going seriously wrong.  It itemizes the end of the world, regulates all of us to statistics in a grand, laughing old crowd of hedonistic jingoists and keeps an eye on us to make sure we agree with the ruling party.  Die, everyone with a different idology; long live freedomin a bleak, I-command-you world of desperate striving.  Camelot is the here and now and live in myths because we are mythic and the black knight is roaming, roving out there waiting to infect your brain.      These are the ideas inherent in this book.  Do not forget to shudder once you close it for the final time.	1997-10-17
US	52934760	R1R1KIIX543UCO	0679720766	368234708	A Fan's Notes	Books	5	3	3	N	N	An epic tragedy of a broken life	There is cunning irony in this beautiful book.  A Fan's Notes.  Simply, it is about a man who wants to be something, who wants to make some sort of contribution to the world at large.  Yet all he's truly capable of doing is glory in the triumph of others.  He sits around in a bar throughout his dead-end life wishing he were someone else and root root rooting for those who have been chosen to be American icons.  He wastes his life away teaching nonesense to uninspired students, aware of his predicament, desperate and alone, waiting, wishing that somehow things will turn around for him.  But at least he has football, at least the Giants are winning, at least Frank Gifford, with whom he went to school so is therefore a mirror image of himself, is doing well, holding on to the glory of the the world, so Ex can live through him, forget about his own misery and self-directed worthlessness and triumph when Frank triumphs.      It is a wonderful book.  It is a stinging tragedy that you can't quite empathize with.  It is the story of a man who has lost his way and can only find himself by watching others succeed.  It is a saddest book in all of American literature.	1997-10-17
US	52934760	R2WTAFHOL6EWOK	0449000907	200347372	American Tabloid: A Novel	Books	5	0	1	N	N	worshipful	Every word is true, the two feds and the ex-cop are thinly veiled characitures of real conspiritors involved with the Kennedy assassination--at least that's the feeling you get once you finish.  It is truly, that absorbing.	1997-10-10
