US	52937546	R1NXKD4D1Q2B3A	0316501115	841614490	Goodbye, Darkness: A Memoir of the Pacific War	Books	5	9	11	N	N	Read This Book	Goodbye, Darkness: A Memoir of the Pacific War by William Manchester is a personal story of the Pacific War and its effect on an individual marine.  Manchester, who is a superlative historical author, intersperses his war experiences from Guadalcanal to Okinawa with his more recent visits to the islands.  The book is not a history of the Pacific War, although there is a lot of history in the book, but a very personal story that is played out with the War as a driving force.  <br />Manchester does a remarkable job letting the reader feel what it was like to be a Marine on Guadalcanal, Tarawa, Iwo Jima, Okinawa and many other battles.  His best writing is saved for Okinawa.  It is on this island where Manchester was severely wounded.  Manchester describes the heroism of the American Marines fighting for inches at the costs of thousands of lives.  What is compelling about the book is that Manchester puts the reader in the battle, feeling the feelings of the soldiers.<br />For those that are interested in the Pacific War, or just want to read a personal account of the a soldier in battle, this book is a must.	2004-04-04
US	52937546	R2S9ZS52ULS5OU	0870119095	974203803	Thunder Gods: The Kamikaze Pilots Tell Their Story (English and Japanese Edition)	Books	3	5	7	N	N	Interesting but Limited	Thunder Gods: The Kamikaze Pilots Tell Their Story by Hatsuho Naito is mistitled in that there is very little in the book in which the pilots tell their own story.  Instead Naito's book is more of a chronological story of the history of the Kamikaze in general and the Thunder Gods in particular.  While it is understandable that few of the pilots may be alive, the title creates expectations that were not fulfilled.  The Thunder Gods were suicide pilots of jet propelled bombs; while Kamikaze pilots traditionally piloted airplanes. <br />Naito startes with the development of the rationale behind the use of kamikazes and the initial reluctance of the Japanese command to utilize them.  Interestingly, it was not the command officers who pushed the idea of their use, but mid level officers who kept the idea alive.  While this is a strong part of the book, Naito should have spent more time describing the conflict and how that conflict finally got resolved in favor of their use.  The state of the war, and the continual Japanese loses, surely had a major impact on the decision,.  But the massive use of suicide missions cannot be solely explained by theses loses.  While history is full of examples of nations losing wars, the use of kamikazes on the scale utilized by the Japanese was unprecedented.  The reader is left with the only explanation that the reason is somehow unique to the Japanese psyche.  Such an explanation, while it may have some relevance, is too easy.<br />As a chronological history, the book is otherwise excellent.  It reads easily and is well written.	2004-04-04
US	52937546	R3QSVKRFZPFCML	0520089928	652124570	Ansel Adams and the American Landscape: A Biography	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Superlative Biography	Ansel Adams and the American Landscape: A Biography by Jonathan Spaulding is a superlative biography of one of America's true icons.  Spaulding does a magnificent job describing the evolution of Adams as a photographer, environmentalist and individual.  In this, the book is more than just Adams' biography, but a history of the environmental movement and photography in America.<br />The only significant disappointment was the inability of Spaulding to utilize the actual Adams pictures when describing their creation.  For instance, his description of the creation of Moon over Hernandez would have greatly benefitted from the ability of the reader to actually see the picture.  However, unfortunately he was unable to obtain permission to utilize the photographs.  While this is not Spaldings fault, it does limit the impact the of the narrative.<br />The most interesting part of the book was the evolution of 20th Century American photography.  Adams cannot be separated from the development of photography in American and his life touched most of the great American photographers.  Adams was constantly in conflict with many of them over the issue of quality versus the benefits of photojournalism. Adams saw photography as a high art form and was at odds with those who saw it as more as a story telling devise.<br />For those that are interested in Adams, environmentalism or photography this book is a must.	2004-02-12
US	52937546	RLQPU31PDCNZV	0399150803	642490368	Trojan Odyssey (Dirk Pitt Adventure)	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Just OK	I am a big fan of Cussler's books and generally enjoy them tremendously.  The enjoyment is not based on their intellectual challenge.  Far from it.  Cussler's books are not challenging, but just pure fun.  Bubble gum for the brain.  The plots are spectacular, at times unbelievable, and the characters are super human.  But it does not matter.  Almost.  <br />Trojan Odyssey is a little bit too unchallanging and too predictable.  It seems at times that Trojan Odyssey is just an amalgamation of Cussler's prior books.  It is still a fine diversion from the real world, just not as much as the others.	2004-02-01
US	52937546	RKF2CG20CD3IO	1841764094	443522855	Lepanto 1571: The greatest naval battle of the Renaissance (Campaign)	Books	4	4	11	N	N	Credit to Author and Ospery	Lepanto 1571 (Campaign, 114) by Angus Konstam is a well written, yet concise, account of the Holy Alliance's total defeat of the Ottoman Navy off the coast of Greece.  It follows the usual Ospery style with a brief explanations of the rival commanders, their navies, the campaign and the aftermath.  The best compliment that can be given the author is that my appetite was wetted for more information concerning the battle and the aftermath.  Konstam raises many questions, although only briefly, that deserve further consideration.  Among them are why the Ottomans joined the battle given their knowledge of the frailty of the Holy Alliance and whether the Holy Alliance's superiority in artilitery was decisive.<br />All in all, this was a good book and a credit to the author and Ospery.	2004-01-20
US	52937546	R39N2JOFQLYANT	1841765619	464772246	Tannenberg 1410: Disaster for the Teutonic Knights (Campaign)	Books	5	11	13	N	N	Interesting and Concise History	Tannenberg 1410: Disaster for the Teutonic Knights by Stephen Turnbull is a concise but interesting history of a little known part of European History that had little immediate importance, but significant long term effect.  In 1410 the Teutonic Knights of Prussia invaded Polish territory with the intent of expanding their empire.  The Poles, along with their Lithuanian allies and a contingent of Czech mercenaries were able to rout the Knights, killing their Grand Master.  Because of indecisive moves the Polish/Lithuanian allies they were unable to take advantage of their decisive victory; however, the victory weakened the Knights to such an extent that they eventually became inconsequential in European affairs.<br />In 96 pages, following the standard Ospery format, Turnbull concisely discusses the above in a well thought out and written manner.  The book is well written and interesting to read.  It is highly recommended for anyone who wants a taste of this part of European history.	2004-01-12
US	52937546	R2700R6WH2X87F	0385509510	418900469	Under the Banner of Heaven: A Story of Violent Faith	Books	3	9	12	N	N	Good Read, but Limited Insight	Under the Banner of Heaven : A Story of Violent Faith by Jon Krakauer is an interesting book about the history of Mormonism, with a focus on how two ultra-fundamentalist Mormans, on the orders of God,  committed the senseless murders of their sister in law and their niece.  Admittedly, when I first heard of the book, and the fact that it was written by Krakauer, I was surprised and a little apprehensive.  After all the subject matter is a far cry from Into Thin Air and Into the Wild.  But Krakauer deserves credit for making the transition, although a greater background in religion or in the study of history would have been helpful.  <br />The book moves back and forth from a history of Mormonism and the murders.  The writing is clear and readable as you would expect.  Krakauer does a find job giving the history of both and attempting to explain the whys and wherefor of the murders and some the darker sides of Morman history.<br />The chief limitation of the book is Krakauer's limitation as a author.  Unlike his prior books, Krakauer does not have a firm background in religion, Mormonism or criminology.  Thus, his ability to explain the whys and wherefores is quite limited and as a result only the surface of events is investigated.  Even given this obvious limitation, the book is a worthwhile read.	2003-12-26
US	52937546	R3EXAFJ52FAEJZ	0385720599	48894377	The Soul of Battle: From Ancient Times to the Present Day, How Three Great Liberators Vanquished Tyranny	Books	4	6	9	N	N	Good Read	The Soul of Battle : From Ancient Times to the Present Day, Three Great Liberators Vanquished Tyranny by Victor Davis Hanson is an interesting journey through the history of warfare and the impact that a democratic army may have on the outcome.  Focusing on the Theban General Epaminondas conquest of Sparta, General Sherman of the Union Army and his march to the sea and General Patron's race through France and Germany, Hanson posits that citizen armies raised from a democratic populace and led by extraordinary leaders create the most lethal fighting machines the world has seen.  This is especially true when soldiers see their basic morality challenged by their enemy.  In such circumstances, these democratic armies are not only victorious but also ruthless in the pursuit of their goals.<br />In describing the conquests of the three great liberators, Hanson excels.  His descriptions are more than just a narrative of the events, but a clear and extraordinary analysis of what made the three liberators and their armies click.  Hanson clearly and justifiedly is a fan of the three.  <br />However, if the book is purportedly more than just the story of the three great leaders and their armies, that is where it loses some of its strength.  While a democratic army can be a devastating force, history reveals exceptions.  For instance, while Patton's armies defeated the Nazi's, the American armies were routed by the Chinese in Korea and the British and French armies were defeated by the German blitzkrieg.  Moreover, from Alexander to Genghis Kahn to Napoleon, history is full of examples of dictators leading armies of conquest and overwhelming their opponents. Hanson should have discussed theses other examples and explored why they are not inconsistent with his theory.<br />What Hanson, does discuss, but what could have been focused on more, is that the democratic armies were not professional armies like the ones of Alexander or Napoleon.  Both the armies of Sherman and Patton, the soldiers were ordinary citizens who were called up to fight antidemocratic forces and who quickly reentered civilian life after their mission had been accomplished.  <br />All in all, the reading of the book was a positive experience even given the limitations of Hanson's theory.	2003-12-26
US	52937546	R2H4M7Z6KYFVZF	1841762547	552228533	The Tet Offensive 1968 (Trade Editions)	Books	4	6	7	N	N	Worthwhile Read	The Tet Offensive, 1968,  by James Arnold is a short, concise, but interesting history of the critical offensive that led to the American withdrawal from Vietnam.  While set in the traditional Osprey style, the book deviates from the ususal Ospery book in its focus on the political implications of the offensive.<br />Arnold points out that if one judges the battle from the perspective of the original aims by the North Vietnamese that the offensive was an unambiguous failure.  However, what the North Vietnamese, nor for that matter the Americans, did not anticipate were the political implications of the offensive.  Juxtaposed against General Westmoreland's statements that the United States was winning the war, the growing mistrust of the military and the mistaken reporting of the taking of the American Embassy, the offensive led to a loss of political will to continue the war.<br />Arnold does a fine job discussing all of the above as well as the essential military details.  For a history of the Tet Offensive, the book is a worthwhile read.	2003-12-26
US	52937546	R1R3HDHQGFWFNN	0684807610	438783610	Benjamin Franklin: An American Life	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Read this Book!!	Benjamin Franklin : An American Life by Walter Isaacson is an incredible biography about an incredible American.  The book is very readable and flows easily.  Just for these qualities, the book is highly recommended and a must read for anyone interested in the founding of our nation.<br />Isaacson does a marvelous job intertwining the life of Franklin with the founding of our country.  This is not a difficult assignment since the two are so intertwined and it is questionable as to whether the nation would have ever existed if not for the efforts of Franklin.  Isaacson takes us through the early life of Franklin, his beginnings as a printer and his development as a thinker, business man, scientist and inventor.  What becomes clear is that Franklin was the epitome of what we now call a Renaissance Man.  But Isaacson is not uncritical of Franklin, where criticism is due.    Most of that criticism is saved for Franklin's private life and his inexcusable treatment of his wife and son.  <br />On the political level, Franklin was present at every major event that led to the founding of our nation.  He signed and help write the Declaration of Independence, was critical in gaining the treaty with France that was instrumental in obtaining independence, was essential to the negotiations with Britain that ended the War, and played an essential role in the writing of the Constitution.  Isaacson discusses all of these events and the role that Franklin played.<br />If you are interested in the founding of our country read this book.	2003-12-26
US	52937546	R2P69QYNTS5DML	0375414347	596080978	A Moral Reckoning: The Role of the Catholic Church in the Holocaust and Its Unfulfilled Duty of Repair	Books	2	7	22	N	N	Strong Message, Poorly Written	A Moral Reckoning: The Role of the Catholic Church in the Holocaust and Its Unfulfilled Duty of Repair by Daniel Jonah Goldhagen is a difficult book to read not because of the strong message, but because of the way that it is delivered.  Goldhagen central thesis is one that has historical and moral resonance - that the Catholic Church, as a moral force, is culpable as a collaborator, if not an instigator, in the Final Solution. The Church as the self professed embodiment of Christ, participated in creating the climate that lead to the Final Solution through the dissemination of virulent anti-Semitism, and then turned its back on any responsibility in mitigating the effects of its policy or acting as a break on the Final Solution.<br />This is not a book on the history of the Church's involvement in the Nazi movement, but a moral inquiry into that involvement.  Goldhagen message centers around the proposition that the Church is supposed to be more than organization whose purpose is its own perpetuation, regardless of the costs to others.   Rather, the Church as the representative of Christ on Earth has a higher moral obligation which includes the responsibility not to encourage hatred of others, nor participate in the genocide of non-believers, as the Church directly did in Fascist Croatia and elsewhere.  <br />The Church has taken the position that it is innocent of all wrong doing, and has attempted to explain away, or at best minimize, any involvement that it did have.  Goldhagen writes that until the Church takes full responsibility for its acts there can never be any true reconciliation nor can Church rid itself of its guilt.  This is especially necessary given the Church's emphasis on the need to ask forgiveness of ones sins.<br />There is nothing wrong with Goldhagen's message, although it is unquestionably controversial.  However, the way that it is delivered makes it difficult to hear.  What Goldhagen takes almost 400 pages to say could more easily be said in less than half the apace.  The book is highly repetitive, so much so that the message loses its effect and is difficult to read.  It reminds one of the statement by Mark Twain, where he apologized for writing a long letter because he didn't have time to write a short one.  The bottom line is that Goldhagen should have turned the book into a long essay.	2003-06-25
US	52937546	R1PTYDQ95MEIOK	0304356352	749756194	Tannenberg 1914	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Well Written Book about Key Battle	Tannenberg 1914 by John Sweetman is a well written book describing one of the key battles of the First World War. In 1914 Russia and France had entered into an alliance which compelled Russia to launch offensive military operations soon after Germany began the war in the West.  The purpose of Russia's offensive was to take pressure off the Western Front, give France some breathing room and force the Axis to fight a two front war.  <br />While Sweetman questions the military significance of Tannenberg, he does a marvelous job describing the battle and how a German force, half the size of its Russian counterpart, could have destroyed one Russian army and severely crippled another.  Sweetman writes well and gives the reader a good sense of hows, whys and wherefores.  This is a book that is well worth reading especially since there has been a dearth of writings about the Eastern Front.	2003-06-22
US	52937546	R32L0E25TBGIO2	0812828097	125180702	Reinhard Heydrich: A Biography (English and German Edition)	Books	1	13	25	N	N	Ignores the Savagery of the Architect of the Final Solution	Reinhard Heydrich by Gunther Deschner is a disturbing book not based on what was written, but because of the fact that it evidences that bright, intelligent individuals, like the author, can turn a blind eye to the savagery and evil of the Third Reich and seek to excuse the men who made its operation possible. Deschner, is not an apologist for the Nazi's since he acknowledges the inherent evils of the Party and does not deny the existence of the holocaust. However, when it comes to Heydrich, Deschner would have the reader believe that Heydrich was a well meaning individual who was caught up by his desire for power and the demand of his superiors that he carry out the Final Solution. <br />Deschner seeks to dress Heydrich up as a committed sportsman who had a proper sense of sportsmanship. As an musician who was an accomplished violinist. And as a family man, who loved his children. All these things may be true and necessary for a realistic understanding of who Heydrich really was. However, Deschner spends more time discussing Heydrich's fencing then he does Heydrich's role in the Final Solution. Such an allocation of resources can hardly be defended since Heydrich was the chief architect of the plan that led to the death of six million Jews, as well as millions of Slavs and Gypsies. Whatever, the merits of Heydrich's sportsmanship, its historical significance is dwarfed by the millions of individuals who perished partly as a result of Heydrich's activities.<br />Heydrich was obviously a very complex, cultured and intelligent individual, but one who used his talents to further his own career no matter what the costs to others. One would have desired that instead of Deschner, that the biography would have been written by Gita Sereney, who wrote biographies of Stengel (the commandant of Treblinka) or Albert Speer (Hitler's Armament Minister), or Hannah Arendt, who wrote a compelling biography of Heydrich's assistant Eichmann. Each of these authors was able to deal withthe complexity without excusing the vicious conduct of their subject.<br />Instead of discussing the complexities without losing sight of the evil deeds of Heydrich, Deschner seeks to portray Heydrich in a false light. This is a shame since Deschner is obviously a talented author who was able to write a well researched book. Unfortunately, he neglected to take into account that sportsmanship, culture and love of family could not excuse Heydrich's role in Final Solution.	2003-06-22
US	52937546	R3IHB3QTE7CQ77	0815410530	939444090	Agincourt	Books	4	5	6	N	N	Good History of a Remarkable Battle	Agincourt by Christopher Hibbert is a worthwhile overview of the campaign than led to and included the battle of Agincourt. Hibbert does a fine job recreating the events that led to the battle as well as the battle itself. However, the authors penchant for utilizing quotes solely in french is to say the least annoying. That aside, the strength of the book is the events that lead to the battle.<br />If one did not know the outcome of the battle before reading the book, Henry's victory at Agincourt would have come as a complete surprise. The English Army was much smaller when it arrived in France, and as each day progressed it was further depleted by battle, illness and the need to garrison towns. The French Army, which was several times the size of the English Army, had strung out the English Army. The English Army was short on food, deep in enemy country and was experiencing low morale. <br />What turned the tide, was the superior generalship of Henry V, the impatience of the French heavy cavalry, and the superior quality of English weaponry, particularly the long bow. The latter, gave the English the ability to make the French pay heavily for their impatience. Hibbert's writes in a very readable manner, and the book is recommended for one who wants a basic understanding of this portion of the Hundred Years War.	2003-03-02
US	52937546	R23IPOCJU7BD9L	0304357146	943427117	Cannae (Fields Of Battle)	Books	5	12	12	N	N	Excellent Chronicle of Famous Battle	Cannae by Adrian Goldsworthy is an excellent chronicle of one of histories most famous battles.  In 216 B.C. a Carthaginian Army led by Hannibal annihilated a Roman Army of more than twice its size.  The tactics that Hannibal utilized, what has been called a double envelopment, have been studied for the past centuries and were the basis for the German plan for the invasion of France in 1914 as well as Schwarzkopf's Desert Storm.  <br />Goldsworthy, who has also written a superior history of the Punic Wars, does a remarkable job of taking a battle that occurred over two thousand years ago and making it come alive.  He goes to great lengths to not only explain the thinking of the major players, but remarkedly brings to the pages the experience of the common soldier.  This is especially true as it relates to the sheer physical endurance that was required to slaughter the tens of thousands of Roman soldiers that were killed by Hannibal's Army.  This is not to say that Goldsworthy ignores the major players.  His discussion of the tactics of Hannibal and the lengths that Hannibal went to in order to make the victory more certain are a lesson for any leader.<br />Where the book excels is in its discussion of the Roman Armies and explaining why they were so unsuccessful.  The traditional thought is that the the Roman Army was simply out generaled by one of histories greatest military leaders.  However, as Goldsworthy points out, the Roman Army that met Hannibal was one that had been depleted of its veteran soldiers by successive defeats by Hannibal and was made up mostly of new recruits.  Even so, Hannibal's victory was not a forgone conclusion and had not Hannibal's center held out as long as it did Hannibal's defeat would have followed.  It was only the firmness of the center that allowed the wings to turn and arrack the Roman flanks and the cavalry to attack the Roman rear.  With Hannibal in command of the center, the Carthaginian victory had as much to do with the excellent subordinate commanders that were part of Hannibal's Army.<br />Cannae is similar to the Ospery Campaign Series, in organization, with an explanation of the leaders, the armies and the actual campaign.  However, it is more expensive and includes more in its pages.  The maps are one of the strongest parts of the book and make it easy to understand the ebb and flow of the battle.<br />All in all, the book is a more than worth while read.  However, if one wants to know more, I would suggest Goldsworthy \\"The Punic Wars.\\"	2003-03-02
US	52937546	R32VXQ0VEK2EOU	0306811170	369415650	Xenophon's March: Into The Lair Of The Persian Lion	Books	4	10	10	N	N	Enjoyable Read	Xenophon's March: Into the Lair of the Persian Lion by John Prevas was a very enjoyable read about a splendid corner of history.  At the end of the fifth century B.C. an army of fourteen thousand Greek mercenaries joined an army of a usurper to the Persian Throne.  When the usurper was killed and his army almost destroyed, the Greeks were trapped more than a thousand miles from their homeland and outnumbered almost a hundred to one.  To make matters worse, their leader, and most of their captains, had been murdered and they were without significant cavalry.<br />If any were able to return to Greece that would have been remarkable.  The fact that more than half returned is beyond description.  However, the way in which it occurred is even more amazing.  The Army that marched through the heart of Persia was not one led by a strong, experienced leader who had a firm control of a Army.  The Greeks were led by an inexperienced commander, and the major decisions were made by the army as a whole, and only after a thorough public discourse.  After the decisions were made, the soldiers would take issue with the leaders and punish those leaders, who in the view of the soldiers, had not acted properly.  One can hardly imagine the American Army voting on tactics or the future of its leasers.<br />The book is a very cursory overview of the \\"March of the Ten Thousand.\\"  At times Prevas seems to move between a travel log and a history.  With these limitations, the book is well worth reading.  It is well written, and tells a remarkable story.  However, if one wants a more thorough history I would suggest Xenophon own writings.	2003-03-02
US	52937546	R3LIMQ94X3DHHD	0312230796	93948639	Crimea: The Great Crimean War, 1854-1856	Books	5	10	10	N	N	History At Its Finest	Crimea: The Great Crimean War, 1854-1856 by Trevor Royle may be improperly titled since it is a history of much more than the Crimean War.  While concentrating on the Crimean War, Royle gives the reader a thorough overview of European history from the end of the Napoleonic conflicts till the outbreak of World War II.  The book is history at its finest since it not only explains the actual events but also discusses the historical context of the War and how the war effected future events.<br />Royle writes in a very reader friendly manner and the book easily holds the interest of the reader.  If the book has a weakness it is its continual focus on the British perspective.  At times this is disturbing considering the fact that the French made a much greater investment in men and arms to the conflict and the French front around Sevastopol was where the crucial battles were fought.   Maybe, it is too much to expect a British historian to concentrate on anything other than the British involvement.  <br />To Royle's credit he does not ignore the French, Turkish or Sardinian role, nor is he an apologist for the numerous errors that the British made that led to countless and needless deaths.  Much of the book is devoted to discussing the inadequacies of the British supply system and the miserable hospital conditions.  The chapter relating to Florence Nightingale and her difficulties in reforming the hospital and medical system is compelling.  Royle also discusses the inadequacies of the British army and their failure to move beyond the strategy and tactics of the Napoleonic Wars.  These failures and the ability to purchase commissions are contrasted with the more modern approach of the French.<br />Perhaps the strongest part of the book relates to the diplomatic front, although the discussion is almost exclusively focused on the British and only mentions the other participants as they relate to British interests.  In reading the book, one gets a real understanding of what the British war aims were, even though they were murky at the time.  <br />This a book that is well worth reading.	2003-01-16
US	52937546	R2T0BOC53V9Y4E	1855321327	893819947	Agincourt 1415: Triumph against the odds (Campaign)	Books	4	13	13	N	N	Good Overview	Agincourt 1415 (Campaign ; No. 9)by M. Bennett is a quality overview of an improbable military victory.  In 1415, during the Hundred Years War, the English Army commanded by Henry V defeated a French Army many times its size.  Bennett goes to great lengths to explain how this happened and concluded that it resulted more from the failures of the French to take advantage of their numerical advantage, then the brilliance of Henry V.<br />The book follows the typical Ospery format.  The most significant difference is that Bennett goes to great lengths to discuss the controversies regarding the battle as well as the inadequacies of the commanding officers.  Bennett does not go overboard with his praise for Henry V and discusses his success and failures.  <br />All in all, this is a good read for one that wants an overview of the most famous battle of the Hundred Years War.	2003-01-04
US	52937546	R2L3X0VENWC9SZ	0691088322	159774361	The Fragility of Goodness: Why Bulgaria's Jews Survived the Holocaust	Books	2	19	25	N	N	Disappointing	The Fragility of Goodness: Why Bulgaria's Jews Survived the Holocaust by Tzvetan Todorov (Editor) fails in the essential task created by the title - explainig how fragile was the set of circumstances that led to the Jews of Bulgaria being saved. The first 40 or so pages of the book is a concise history of Bulgaria and the Second World War with the remainer of the book restricted to primary historical documents and memories of the major participants.<br />The stated premise of the book is that goodness is fragile and that the saving of Bulgarian's Jews was not a forgone conclusion. The author ignores that fact that few historical events were forgone conclusions. Even the rise of Hitler was not preordianed and but for the acts of Hindengurg and a few Weimar leaders who thought that they could control Hitler there might not have been a Holocaust. Todorov does not explain why the events in Bulgaria are any different from every other historical event.<br />If one want to read a comprehensive history of Bulgaria during World War II, I would suggest Beyond Hitler's Grasp: The Heroic Rescue of Bulgaria's Jews by Michael Bar-Zohar. The Fragility of Goodness is wothwhile for the presence of the primary sources, but not much else.	2003-01-03
US	52937546	R2OBFUJW6M64C5	0312253486	991869571	The Janson Directive	Books	3	7	8	N	N	Just OK	I used to look so forward to the publication of a new novel by Robert Ludlum and when I saw The Janson Directive on the book shelves that excitement was renewed.  However, The Janson Directive is only a parody of prior works.  <br />The premise is the same of most of almost every other Ludlum novel - the reluctant hero who is forced to save the world from a super secret government agency or billionaire.  At lease in this case it was not Nazi's trying to establish the Fourth Reich.  Add in a female heroine, who the hero saved form being raped, and one has a formula that has been successful.  The Janson Directive adopts this formula lock, stock and barrel.<br />It would have been a more entertaining book, notwithstanding the predictable nature, if it had been 100 pages shorter.  Unlike earlier Ludlum book, the author at times discusses ad nauseam the details of certain of the events so that even the action loses its impact.  Ludlum is still better than most other action writers and I am glad that I read the book because it was entertaining.  However, it was not one his best.	2003-01-03
US	52937546	RC7FGHZGUMEJZ	0060014342	177040953	In the Wake of the Plague: The Black Death and the World It Made	Books	1	10	11	N	N	Supreme Disapointment	In the Wake of the Plague: The Black Death and the World It Made by Norman F. Cantor was a supreme disappointment.  Cantor is a medieval historian with few equals and this book is no where near what one would expect of an historian of his ability.   <br />From the title of the book I expected to read an analysis of the impact of the black death on medieval Europe.  However, the book ended up being a rambling, disconnected, poorly written diatribe about a multitude of issues only a few of which had a connection with the black plague.  The fact that it is written as one speaks can be excused, and given the length of the book, the style is not that surprising and can be excused.  What cannot be excused is the bold statements that Cantor makes relating to issues that are beyond the expertise of an historian; especially relating to medical issues concerning the causes of the plague.  Cantor makes these statements without any citation or backup and expects the reader to accept them as true.  <br />If Cantor had restricted the book to the issues raised in the title the book may have been a worthwhile read.  However, he did not and as such the book is not worth the time it takes to read it.	2003-01-03
US	52937546	RAE83T42EX0MG	0688053394	336392187	The House of Medici: Its Rise and Fall	Books	3	18	18	N	N	Good Travel Book	I purchased The House of Medici: Its Rise and Fall by Christopher Hibbert because I was planning a trip to Florence and wanted to know about the city's history.  As it happened I read the book during the stay and had a chance to relate the places and people that were discussed with what I was seeing at the time.  In this vein, the book was excellent.  It certainly puts much of what was seen when traveling into perspective.<br />However, as pure history, the book is interesting but superficial.  The most substantial portion of the book is reserved for Cosimo the Elder and Lorenzo the Magnificent.  By far Cosimo, who was the Medici who built the family fortune and allowed the family to expand its influence through out Europe, was the most interesting. For the other Medicis,  Hibbert gives the basic facts with little insight as to the hows and whys.  When he moves onto the Medici' as actual rulers of Florence the book really takes a dive. Duke Cosimo I, who expanded Florence to the height of its political and territorial strength is superficially discussed.  <br />Hibbert seems to be very sympathetic to the Medici's and wants to give them much of the credit for the art and culture of the Renaissance. That colors the perspective of the book and explains the focus of the book.	2003-01-03
US	52937546	R2S61P2V63N6HB	0375409009	105731385	Masters of Death: The SS-Einsatzgruppen and the Invention of the Holocaust	Books	4	77	79	N	N	Horrific Example of Mass Murder	Masters of Death: The SS-Einsatzgruppen and the Invention of the Holocaust by Richard Rhodes is one of the most difficult and disturbing books that I have ever read.  It tells the story of the creation of the SS-Einsatzgruppen, the formations that were created by Himmler to kill the Jews, Poles and Russians that had the misfortune to fall behind the German lines.  This is book about more than the mere numbers of the dead, although the numbers themselves are horrific.  What makes the book so upsetting is the description of the way in which the deaths took place.<br />Rhodes is not writing about civilians who were killed as part of a military exercise.  The SS-Einsatzgruppen were not military fighting formations; rather, they were tasked with the job of eliminating all Jews and other undesirables from lands occupied by the Nazi's.  The descriptions include thousands of men, women and children lined up like in a grocery line and walked into pits to lie down one next to another where they were shot. They also include citizens of countries that were occupied who used the opportunity to round up Jewish citizens and kill them through the use of sledge hammers.  These are just two examples, but they are representative of the dozens that are described by Rhodes.  As one might tell, this is not bedtime reading.<br />Rhodes does an excellent job in describing the formation of the SS-Einsatzgruppen, as well as the men who formed it.  What appears to be the underlying premise of the book is how could the men who carried out these terrible crimes have done so and kept even some semblance of sanity. Rhodes describes the heavy drinking and other diversions used as well as the peer pressure used to extract conformance.  In this case conformance meant systematic close up murder of thousands.  The basic tenant is that these men were habituated through a deliberate process.  However, this explanation goes only so far.  The acts of the SS-Einsatzgruppen were not an isolated incident such as the barbarity of the Japanese sacking of Nanking (See The Rape of Nanking by Iris Chang), but a concerted, continuos effort over several years where men were forced to participate in the slaughter of innocent men, women and children head-on.  <br />Rhodes explanation for the acts of the SS-Einsatzgruppen is left hallow.  At times the barbarity of the acts overwhelms an attempt to explain the whys.  And for that matter the whys may seem irrelevant.  But Rhodes attempts to explain the whys and the hows is at a minimum a noble efforts. After finishing the book one does not have the answer,  but that does not mitigate against the fact that this is a book worthy of reading.	2002-12-02
US	52937546	REXOR1ZCS3ZQ	1855321106	746183729	Alexander 334–323 BC: Conquest of the Persian Empire (Campaign)	Books	5	7	7	N	N	One of the Best	Alexander 334-323 BC: Conquest of the Persian Empire (Campaign Series 7) by John Warry is one of the best of the Osprey Campaign Series.  Unlike most to the other books, Alexander does not focus on a given battle or a series of battles, but on the almost decade long conquest of Persia and neighboring countries, such as parts of India.  If one is looking for an overview of Alexander's conquests then there is probably no better book.  The battles are described in such a manner as to acquaint the reader with the ins and outs and the maps are beyond excellent.<br />Warry does a fine job in explaining how 50,000 infantry and cavalry troops were able to defeat an empire with troops several times their number.  Focusing on the the tactical brilliance of Alexander and the innovations in battle field technologies, the book explains why Alexander was victorious.  It is written in a readable fashion and is a good place to start for anyone who is interested in the conquests of Alexander.	2002-12-01
US	52937546	R3JQJCGWMYEM9K	0899197906	509709654	To the Gates of Richmond: The Peninsula Campaign	Books	5	19	21	N	N	Excellent History of Failed Opportunities	In To The Gates of Richmond : The Peninsula Campaign, Stephen W. Sears once again proves that he is the preeminent author of Civil War histories.  Like his histories of the The Battle of Antietam in Landscape Turned Red or of the Battle of Chancellorsville, Sears has an enviable way of setting forth both the feel of the battles and the raw history that one needs to fully understand the battles and campaigns of the Civil War.  In To The Gates of Richmond, Sears does a masterful job of describing the thought process of McClellan and Lee as well as the line soldiers on both sides.  If one wants to get a true feel of what it was like to be on the Peninsula in 1862, then this is the book for you.<br />The theme of the book is lost opportunities for both the Union and the Confederacy.  The Peninsula Campaign is probably the only time in the history of the Civil War where each side had an ability to end the conflict on terms that were advantageous.  For the Union, a victory and the capture of Richmond, probably would also have resulted in the destruction of the main Southern Army.  For the Confederacy, if Lee had been able to cut off and destroy the Union Army, as Lee wanted to do, the Union would have been left with no effective force to stop an advance on Washington.  However, errors on both sides led to three more years of death and destruction.<br />For Lee it was the problem of a new command, with subordinates not of his own choosing and with many of those subordinates failing to live up to expectations.  For Stonewall Jackson, the Peninsula Campaign was far from his finest hour.  From failing to communicate with Lee, to not having his troops arrive on time, to not pushing forward where there was a clear advantage, Jacksons failures assisted the Union Army in escaping the traps that were being set by Lee.  However, the blame is not placed solely on Jackson and his fellow Generals.  Sears properly criticizes Lee for his overly complicated battle plans, especially given his unfamiliarity with the command.  <br />Sears greatest criticisms are rightfully saved for McClellan.  Like in the Battle of Antietam,  McClellan great caution turned a real numerical superiority into an imaginary disadvantage.  Where McClellan should have been driving forward and bringing Lee to battle, his incorrect  belief that he was outnumbered two to one forced him to take the defensive and almost led to the destruction of the Army that he truly loved.  The plain fact is that McClellan may have been the right General to have formed the Army of the Potomac, but as a battlefield leader he was a disaster.  From his ordering retreats when they were not necessary, to his failure to establish a clear chain of command during battles, to his penchant for not being in the field when battles were taking place, and for his failures to take advantage of opportunities presented him, Sears systematically outlines the deficiencies of the General that was once known as the Young Napoleon.<br />This is a very good book, especially for those who are interested in the personalities of those that led the armies into battle.  It is very readable and draws a fine balance between presenting the facts that one needs to be aware of as well as the personalties of the leasers and common soldiers that fought the battles.	2002-12-01
US	52937546	R2DF5U12VU4T9Y	1855322846	898450806	Hattin 1187: Saladin's greatest victory (Campaign)	Books	4	10	11	N	N	Splendid History	Hattin 1187: Saladin's Greatest Victory (Campaign, No. 19)by David Nicolle is a splendid history not only of the battle, but of the events leading to the destruction of the Crusader Army and eventually to the fall of Jersuleum.  It is written using the standard Ospery model, with the difference being a greater emphasis on the events leading to the battle and the aftermath.  While like most Ospery books it only covers the basics, Nicolle gives broader insights then are usual.  The book is very readable and the maps are first rate.   If you are interested in the crusades or the history of the middle east, this book is for you.	2002-12-01
US	52937546	R10G3TQS8YRHHE	1855326078	526072959	Okinawa 1945: The last battle (Campaign)	Books	2	3	5	N	N	Too much detail and not enough context	Okinawa 1945: The Last Battle (Campaign, 96)by Gordon Rottman is packed full of details concerning the Okinawa landings.  If one wants to merely know about troop movements then this is the book for you.  However, the battle was about more than troop movments.  As, such Rottman's book seems sterile.  Thie is espically true after reading Ospery's other books about the War in the Pacific, espically Iwo Jima and Tarawa.<br />What is missing from the book is any context for the battle or any notion that men fought the battle.  Okinawa was the last major battle of the War and resulted in a devesting loss of life.  Rottman cites the statistics, but in order to understand the battle mere statistics are insufficent.  The Ospery format certainly limits the ability of Rottman to move beyond the basics of the battle.  However, the books on Iwo Jima and Tarawa prove that it can be done.	2002-10-31
US	52937546	RTD79TQHYJ277	1855325039	66445819	Majuba 1881: The Hill Of Destiny (Campaign)	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Very Good Read	Majuba 1881: The Hill of Destiny (Osprey Military Campaign Series, 45)by Ian Castle is a fine example of what the Ospery Campaign series can achieve.  In 90 pages, using the ususal format, the author gives a compelling overview of the whys and wherefores relating to the battle.  While one understands that there are things that are left out, when one finishes the book one at least knows the basics.<br />I would recommend this book for anyone who wants to get an overview before reading further regarding the Second Boer War (@1900)or the events that shaped South Africa.  This is a positive read, is written in very readable prose, and I would recommend it.	2002-10-31
US	52937546	RVWXILF6QTKL8	1855323664	131250102	Aspern & Wagram 1809: Mighty clash of Empires (Campaign)	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Good Overview	Aspern & Wagram 1809: Mighty Clash of Empires (Osprey Military Campaign, No 33)by Ian Castle, David G. Chandler (Editor)is a good overview of the battle that was the follow up to Austerlitz and Napoleon great victory. The battles described in the book in themselves are not that exciting or interesting, but when read in the proper historical context are well worth the read.<br />The book is written in the traditional style in a very readable format. One gets the bascis of the conflict as well as the basic whys and wherefores. All in all this is a positive read.	2002-10-31
US	52937546	R3B7XPZP2QE3TZ	0850459575	607344313	Austerlitz 1805: Battle of the Three Emperors (Campaign)	Books	4	0	3	N	N	Good Start	Austerlitz 1805: Battle of the Three Emperors (Osprey Military Campaign Series, No. 2)by David G. Chandler is a good start for anyone who wants to learn more about the Austerlitz campaign and Napoleon's rise to European ascendency.  The author, David Chandler, is one of the recognized experts on Napoleon and for that reason alone the book is worthwhile.<br />It is written in the traditional Ospery style and is very readable.  The weakest part of the book is the discussion of the effect of the battle and the historical place that it holds.  However, that might be a structural fault of the Ospery format.<br />There are numerous holes in the battle description which can be explained by the limited space avaliable. However, if one wants an overview in order to put more extensive histories into context, this is a good place to start.	2002-10-31
US	52937546	R15DAQLO76BG67	0300082568	134471279	Rethinking the Holocaust	Books	5	20	27	N	N	Excellent Historical Overview	Rethinking the Holocaust by Yehuda Bauer is an excellent historical review of the various issues that are raised by the Holocaust.  Bauer is one of the preeminent holocaust historians and this book will only reenforce his place in historical studies.<br />The book reviews most of the recent historical issues ranging from the holocausts place in history to a comparison with more recent genocides.  The central thesis is that what seperates the holocaust from the more recent genocides is not the necessarily the evil of the act.  What has happened in Africa or Bosnia is not less evil or horrible than what the Nazis did.  However, the African and Bosnian genocides were more significanly limited in scope.  The Nazi plan was to hunt down the Jews where ever they lived and to eliminate them as a race.  This desire seperates the holocaust from all other genocides.<br />The most interesting chapter discuses the theology of the holocaust.  The central theological difficulty of the holocaust is how to reconcile an all powerful God with one that is just.  The question being how could a just God who had the power to stop the death of millions not stop that murder.  One conclusion is that God is all powerful or just, but not both.  Bauer does not have any real answers, and there might not be any; however, the discussion is thought provoking and leads to furhter readings.  This chapter was worth reading the book.	2002-10-31
US	52937546	RUQX6K3Q4UBZS	0850459575	607344313	Austerlitz 1805: Battle of the Three Emperors (Campaign)	Books	4	3	6	N	N	Good Start	Austerlitz 1805: Battle of the Three Emperors (Osprey Military Campaign Series, No. 2)by David G. Chandler is a good start for anyone who wants to learn more about the Austerlitz campaign and Napoleon's rise to European ascendency.  The author, David Chandler, is one of the recognized experts on Napoleon and for that reason alone the book is worthwhile.<br />It is written in the traditional Ospery style and is very readable.  The weakest part of the book is the discussion of the effect of the battle and the historical place that it holds.  However, that might be a structural fault of the Ospery format.<br />There are numerous holes in the battle description which can be explained by the limited space avaliable. However, if one wants an overview in order to put more extensive histories into context, this is a good place to start.	2002-10-31
US	52937546	R26VLUO6DTR83B	1855326078	526072959	Okinawa 1945: The last battle (Campaign)	Books	2	2	6	N	N	Too much detail and not enough context	Okinawa 1945: The Last Battle (Campaign, 96)by Gordon Rottman is packed full of details concerning the Okinawa landings. If one wants to merely know about troop movements then this is the book for you. However, the battle was about more than troop movements. As, such Rottman's book seems sterile. This is especially true after reading Ospery's other books about the War in the Pacific, especially Iwo Jima and Tarawa.<br />What is missing from the book is any context for the battle or any notion that men fought the battle. Okinawa was the last major battle of the War and resulted in a devesting loss of life. Rottman cites the statistics, but in order to understand the battle mere statistics are insufficient. The Ospery format certainly limits the ability of Rottman to move beyond the basics of the battle. However, the books on Iwo Jima and Tarawa prove that it can be done.	2002-10-31
US	52937546	R2TV5WJS00EO7L	0850459575	607344313	Austerlitz 1805: Battle of the Three Emperors (Campaign)	Books	4	2	4	N	N	Good Beginning	Austerlitz 1805: Battle of the Three Emperors (Osprey Military Campaign Series, No. 2)by David G. Chandler is a good start for anyone who wants to learn more about the Austerlitz campaign and Napoleon's rise to European ascendency. The author, David Chandler, is one of the recognized experts on Napoleon and for that reason alone the book is worthwhile.<BR>It is written in the traditional Ospery style and is very readable. The weakest part of the book is the discussion of the effect of the battle and the historical place that it holds. However, that might be a structural fault of the Ospery format.<br />There are numerous holes in the battle description which can be explained by the limited space avaliable. However, if one wants an overview in order to put more extensive histories into context, this is a good place to start.	2002-10-31
US	52937546	R22HJ3RK7FCS6E	1855329522	778320554	Little Big Horn 1876	Books	4	19	20	N	N	Good Overview of the Little Big Horn Campaign	Little Big Horn 1876: Custer's Last Stand by Peter F. Panzeri is a good overview of the Little Big Horn Campaign.  It is written in the traditional Osprey style and in addition has excellent maps showing the troop movements.<br />The theme of the book appears to be the multiple mistakes made by Custer and his men, espically Major Reno, that led to the destruction of his cammand.  The chief among these was over confidence.  In this vien, the book is very good.  This is a worthwhile read for one who wants to know the basics of an American battle where it is often times difficult to seperate fact from folklore.	2002-08-01
US	52937546	R8MW8BQV9R0AO	0140187650	256512110	Eichmann in Jerusalem: A Report on the Banality of Evil	Books	5	77	84	N	N	Explains the True Horrror of the Third Reich	Eichmann in Jerusalem: A Report on the Banality of Evil by Hannah Arendt is one of the most disturbing books that I have read in a long while.  Along with Gita Sereny's interviews with Stangle and Speer, they demonstrate the true horror of the Third Reich.  This horror is not the inherent evil of Hitler or Himmler or the sadistic camp guards.  The holocaust presented these already morally bankrupt men with the opportunity to commit the evil which their consciences allowed.  Of greater horror are the individuals, such as Eichmann, who were not evil per se, but who were willing to put conscience aside in order to advance within an evil system.  <br />As Arendt moves through the holocaust in the different countries in Western Europe and the Balkans, it becomes evident that the difference in degrees of the destruction of  Jewry was not defined by the presence of potentially evil wrongdoers, but by the existence of individuals who would not put their conscience aside in order to further short-term goals.  The contrast between the destruction of German Jews and the survival of the Jews of Bulgaria and Denmark can be directly traced to a commitment by the Bulgarians and Danes to save their fellow countrymen.  The German Jews did not survive as the Danish and Bulgarian Jews did because Germany lacked such men of conscience.<br />It is  easier to think of the chief architects and perpetrators of the attempted destruction of a whole people as madmen, the madder the better.  Their acts can be rightfully condemned, but also understood, as evil things done by evil people.  Furthermore, if the holocaust can be blamed on the acts of evil madmen, then it is also easier to believe that it could not have been prevented.  Arendt destroys each of these rationalizations and raises questions that frankly kept me up at night.  If, as she demonstrates, the success of the holocaust was determined by those who put their consciences aside, then it also seems agonizingly true that the deaths of six million were not predetermined.  Had more people acted on their consciences, perhaps those deaths need not have been integral to the Nazi conquest of Europe. <br />The fact that she does not treat Eichmann as a mad sadist, and instead explains why the prosecutions portrayal of him was incorrect, does not mean that Arendt is an apologist for Eichmann - far from it.  Unlike Hitler, Eichmann was under no illusion that the Jews were responsible for all of the world's problems.  His prior relations with Jews had been friendly.  However, he was willing able to put this aside and play a vital role in the Final Solution.  His excuse was that he was ordered to do so.  But the reality was that he was more worried about his failure to get the promotions that he believed he deserved.  This made Eichmann, like most of the perpetrators of the holocaust, the paradigm of the \\"banality of evil.\\" However, such a rational led Arendt not to condemn the Jerusalem Court's death verdict but to condone it.<br />Arendt does an amazing job of delving into the mind of Eichmann as well as the reasons why the Final Solution was successful in some countries and not others.  This is not a book for one who desires light reading.  However, if one is seeking to understand the Final Solution, then this book is a must.	2002-07-29
US	52937546	RLH1CPE9NSZRW	0670030414	435949952	The Fall of Berlin 1945	Books	4	12	18	N	N	Riveting History	The Fall of Berlin by Antony Beevor is a riveting history of the end of the Second World War.  Beevor does an excellent job of describing the troop movements and deployments that led to the fall of Berlin as well as the final destruction of the Nazi Army.  If for no other reason the book is worthwhile.<br />However, as important as the strict military history is, the heart of the book is the political and human side of the equation.  What becomes clear is that the difference between Stalin and Hitler was slight at best; both were willing to sacrifice whoever was needed to achieve their personal goals.  This is not to say that Stalin motive for the mass murder of his enemies was racial, but millions died none the less.  However, as military leaders, Stalin, after the disaster of the invasion, learned that he had to defer to his generals.  Hitler, thankfully never learned that lesson.<br />There were also similiarities between the two armies.  While not on the same scale as the Germans, the Russian Army was no benign conqueror.  The needless destruction, looting, murder and rape would have made the army of Genghis Khan proud.  At times one is forced to hope that both sides lose.<br />Contrary to some of the other reviews, Beevor is simply not being anti Russian.  His history of Stalingrad, which is also excellent, makes that clear.  He also goes a long way to explain that the average Russian soldier was conditioned by the wanton destruction visited on thier homeland and the Russian people by the Nazis.  It is not hard to understand the thurst for revenge, but as Beevor points out, this does not explain the rape of women who were taken from Russia as slave labor. <br />This book is a worthwile read and it is highly recommended.	2002-07-28
US	52937546	RBOGYK6A8KS3T	1841761028	945424617	Tarawa 1943: The turning of the tide (Campaign)	Books	4	11	12	N	N	Misnamed but  Good Read	Tarawa 1943: The Turning of the Tide is a well written, but short history of the invasion of the island. It is misnamed, since the author himself correctly describes Midway as the turning point. But that aside, this is a good book.<br />In fact Tarawa is a perfect battle for the Osprey series since the battle was basically fought over a three day period. The book does an excellent job describing not only the troop movements but the human toll that the invasion caused. One is continually reminded that the conquest of Tarawa was paid for in too much human blood.<br />This is a good read. Excellent maps are an added bonus.	2002-07-28
US	52937546	R1PQT22MZJAWA2	1841762334	240374666	Kalka River 1223: Genghiz Khan's Mongols invade Russia (Campaign)	Books	4	7	8	N	N	Good Overview of Mongol Invasion	Kalka River 1223: Genghiz Khan's Mongols Invade Russia is an excellent overview of the first Mongol invasion of medieval Russia.  It is quite different from most other Osprey books, since the majority is dedicated to the describing the armies and their weaponary.  As a result the book gives one a more indepth look at aspects other than the battle.  While the 40 pages or so dedicated to the armies does not do either justice, it is a very good beginning.<br />Where the book falls off is in the description of the battle.  One would surmise that the lack of a full description is caused by the lack of information.  However, this is a minor matter.	2002-07-28
US	52937546	R1SEGMHXQQY8NO	0393044289	457826163	The Healing Wound: Experiences and Reflections, Germany, 1938-2001	Books	3	9	13	N	N	Disappointing	Ms. Sereny is one of the true gifts to the literary world and as each of her books is published I relish the chance to read it.  That is what was so disappointing about The Healing Wound: Experiences and Reflections, Germany, 1938-2001.  The stated purpose of the book was to discuss the effect of the Nazis and the war on Germans, both during and after the conflict.  Whilet the writing is as usual top flight and each of the chapters engrossing, as a whole the book fails in its essential task.<br />The book is a collection of decades of Ms. Sereny's writing, edited and updated.  Two of the chapters are derived from her earlier books on Stangl and Speer, and for those who have read the books, there is very little added.  The other chapters are engrossing in their own right.  They range from the Nazi's stealing of children to be raised as Aryans, Ms. Sereny's experiences in pre-war Germany, to the falsification of Hitler's diaries, and the trial of John Demjanjuk.  What is missing is a universal current that brings together each of the chapters together.  At times the book seems to be as much about the United States or Israel as Germany.  <br />When Ms. Sereny does discuss the attitudes of current Germans and the evolutionary process that they have taken part in the discussion is riveting.  Focusing on those sections, one firmly believes that there is no comparison between the German that grew up in what was West Germany and the German who lived in Germany in the early 1930's.  That whatever else might be said, that the German government and people have taken their recent history to heart with the firm desire to insure that it will not be repeated.  This is encouraging given the discussion about the racist problems arising in the former East German states.  I only wish that more of the book had been devoted to this subject.	2002-07-12
US	52937546	RP054U2AMS8YG	1841761788	659134229	Iwo Jima 1945: The Marines raise the flag on Mount Suribachi (Campaign)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Captures Scope of Battle	Iwo Jima 1945: The Marines Raise the Flag on Mount Suribachi (Campaign, 81)by Derek Wright is written in typical Ospery fashion.  What makes it different from most of the other books in the series is the ablity of the author in very few pages to capture the heroism, death and wanton destruction that accompanied the battle to take control of the tiny island.  Wright does a magnificant job helping the reader understand the mind set of the Marines and the Japanese and each of their desires to destroy the other at almost any cost or price.<br />From the aftermath section, it is obvious that the author sought to use Iwo Jima as a test of what would have happened if an invasion of the Japanese homeland has occured.  If Wright is even half correct in his assumptions, then the invasion would have been devestating.  Wright then seems to conclude that the expected devestation justifies the use of the atomic bomb.  A conclusion shared by the Iwo Jima veterans.<br />The sequence of the battle is laid out in a day by day account.  As is typical of the Osprey series, there are certainly parts of the battle that are left out or shortchanged.  However, given the page limitations that is to be expected.  <br />This is an fine short history and a worthwhile read.	2002-07-12
US	52937546	R2RSIOFC2XOTJJ	1855323028	346610082	Arnhem 1944: Operation 'Market Garden' (Campaign)	Books	3	14	22	N	N	Misses the Point	Arnhem 1944: Operation 'Market Garden' (Campaign, No 24) by Stephen Badsey is a better than adequate description of the nuts and bolts of Operation Market Garden.  The maps are informative and the prose do give one a better than basic knowledge of the military movements and counter movements.  If one is simply looking for a narrative of troop movements then this is an excellent book.<br />Where the book fails is in the discussion of the multitude of errors that went into the planning and excution of the Operation.  It was a campaign that was begun as much as a result of Montgomery's desire to be the one to win the war and not be bested by the Americans and Patton, as by military necessity.  Once began, the British ignored the advise of the local resistance, utilized tactics that played into the strength of the Nazi resisters, and were too ambitious. This is not to mention the intelligence failures that convinced the Allies that they would be facing second rate worn out units.<br />All in all, Market Garden is a case study of what should not be done.  Not only did it lead to the needless deaths, but it took vital resources away from the Patton's Third Army where they could have been put to better use and resulted in ending the war sooner.	2002-07-07
US	52937546	R2PDU9TW6NULRH	0385500521	288543952	Carnage and Culture: Landmark Battles in the Rise of Western Power	Books	4	9	11	N	N	Interesting and Though Provoking	Carnage and Culture: Landmark Battles in the Rise of Western Power by Victor Davis Hanson is an interesting read. The central thesis of the book is that the Western style of direct decisive infantry warfare, with roots in democracy and capitalism, has been historically superior and partly responsible for the Western Worlds superior position. Hanson seeks to present his book as a kind of rebuttal to Guns, Germs, and Steel: The Fates of Human Societies by Jared Diamond. <br />As to the latter objective. Hanson fails miserably for Hanson's and Diamond's theories are not inconsistent and Hanson's attempt to make them so detracts from the rest of the book.. Diamond's seeks to explain why it was the Spanish who conquered the Incas in 16th century Peru and not Incas who sailed to Madrid to conquer the Spanish. He theorizes that the Spanish had greater access to domesticatable crops and animals and European geography allowed for an easier exchange of ideas from other burgeoning societies. Hanson seeks to minimize the advantages of what Diamond speaks of and instead focuses on military strategy, and western economic and political thought. What Hanson misses is that without advanced military transport in the horse, the availability of sophisticated weapons, such as steel swords, rudimentary guns and cannon the Incas would never have been conquered.<br />Hanson's own treatment of the conquest of Tenochtitlan (Mexico City) in 1520-1521 is the proof. The Mexican Army utilized infantry tactics, since they did not have any calvary. They fought decisive battles with their opponents, since like the ancient Greeks they had a war season. While the Greeks was based on the harvest, the Mexican was based on the harvest and religious considerations. While they also fought symbolic flower wars these were not the ones fought to protect their Empire.<br />The Spanish, with several hundred Spaniards and thousands of natives under Cortez, were able to defeat the Mexicans. It was the horses, guns and eventually smallpox which were decisive. There can be no argument that Spain or Cortez operated in a democratic or that capitalism was the basis of their economy. One can even argue that what defeated the Aztecs was their penchant for human sacrifice and the desire to capture Cortez instead of killing him. In numerous battles the Aztecs could have killed Cortez but did not. <br />Hanson's and Diamond's book build on each other and offer a compelling explanation to justify each others theories. Hanson unintentionally builds on Diamond's concepts to explain why societies with equal resources do not necessarily develop equally.<br />Otherwise, Hanson's book is well written and very interesting. It is in the description of the battles and the campaigns where he excels. It would have been better if Hanson had dealt with some of the possible exceptions to his theory - the century old Ottoman Empire, the supremacy of the Prussian military tradition which was hardly based on notions of democracy and the Russian almost suicidal defense of their homeland at Stalingrad. Maybe he is saving that for his next book.	2002-06-27
US	52937546	R1KO05JR1DO3WA	1841760897	565916418	Lorraine 1944 : Patton Vs Manteuffel (Campaign Series, 75)	Books	4	14	17	N	N	Better Than Most	As Osprey Campaign series books go this is one of the best.  The focus of the book is the blunting of the Nazi counter offensive by the Patton's 3rd Army.  It is laid out in the traditional Ospery style and as always gives the reader a broad overview of the campaign.<br />What makes this book better than most is that it does not get lost in the details of the military movements. It does a fine job of explaining the whys and the hows.  Not an easy thing in the limited space avaliable.  The most interesting part of the book focus on the German commanders, fresh from the Russian front, fighting the American military with the same Eastern font tactics.  As explained, the American use of artilery and close air support made the tactics a disaster.	2002-06-23
US	52937546	R2IN3W7G0UB6VT	1841760919	771829810	Constantinople 1453: The end of Byzantium (Campaign)	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Great Overview	Constantinople 1453: The End of Byzantium is a well written, but concise, history of the fall of Constantinople.  The book is written in the clasical Ospery tradition and as a result gives the reader all that is necessary to understand the pivatol historical event.<br />What the book could not do, given the limited space avaliable, is put the the event in context.  If the reader is looking for an indepth analysis of why Constantinople fell this is not the book for you.  It would be impossible to cover centuries of history in 90 pages.  If however, you are looking for the basics of the battle, the players and the whys and wherefores the book is excellent. <br />I have read extensively on the subjrect and was looking for something to read that concentrated on the fall of  Constantinople.  I was not disappointed.	2002-06-23
US	52937546	R1ZY6O1K8MAFA0	0393317552	733405472	Guns, Germs, and Steel: The Fates of Human Societies	Books	4	10	12	N	N	Interesting and Thought Provoking	Carnage and Culture: Landmark Battles in the Rise of Western Power by Victor Davis Hanson is an interesting read.  The central thesis of the book is that the Western style of direct decisive infantry warfare, with roots in democracy and capitalism, has been historically superior and partly responsible for the Western Worlds superior position.  Hanson seeks to present his book as a kind of rebuttal to Guns, Germs, and Steel: The Fates of Human Societies by Jared Diamond.  <br />As to the latter objective. Hanson fails miserably for Hanson's and Diamond's theories are not inconsistent and Hanson's attempt to make them so detracts from the rest of the book..  Diamond's seeks to explain why it was the Spanish who conquered the Incas in 16th century Peru and not Incas who sailed to Madrid to conquer the Spanish.  He theorizes that the Spanish had greater access to domesticatable crops and animals and European geography allowed for an easier exchange of ideas from other burgeoning societies.  Hanson seeks to minimize the advantages of what  Diamond speaks of and instead focuses on military strategy, and western economic and political thought.  What Hanson misses is that without advanced military transport in the horse, the availability of sophisticated weapons, such as steel swords, rudimentary guns and cannon the Incas would never have been conquered.<br />Hanson's own treatment of the conquest of Tenochtitlan (Mexico City) in 1520-1521 is the proof.  The Mexican Army utilized infantry tactics, since they did not have any calvary.  They fought decisive battles with their opponents, since like the ancient Greeks they had a war season.  While the Greeks was based on the harvest, the Mexican was based on the harvest and religious considerations.  While they also fought symbolic flower wars these were not the ones fought to protect their Empire.<br />The Spanish, with several hundred Spaniards and thousands of natives under Cortez, were able to defeat the Mexicans.  It was the horses, guns and eventually smallpox which were decisive. There can be no argument that Spain or Cortez operated in a democratic or that capitalism was the basis of their economy. One can even argue that what defeated the Aztecs was their penchant for human sacrifice and the desire to capture Cortez instead of killing him.  In numerous battles the Aztecs could have killed Cortez but did not.  <br />Hanson's and Diamond's book build on each other and offer a compelling explanation to justify each others theories.  Hanson unintentionally builds on Diamond's concepts to explain why societies with equal resources do not necessarily develop equally.<br />Otherwise, Hanson's book is well written and very interesting.  It is in the description of the battles and the campaigns where he excels.  It would have been better if Hanson had dealt with some of the possible exceptions to his theory - the century old Ottoman Empire, the supremacy of the Prussian military tradition which was hardly based on notions of democracy and the Russian almost suicidal defense of their homeland at Stalingrad.  Maybe he is saving that for his next book.	2002-06-23
US	52937546	R2C43TX4UUPPMV	185532993X	40973058	Verdun 1916: ‘They shall not pass’ (Campaign)	Books	3	8	12	N	N	Average	Verdun 1916: They Shall Not Pass is written in the standard Osprey manner and is an example of the linmitations of the series.  The book is so full of information and troop movements that it is next to imppossible to follow without a map in front of you.  The maps provided by the author are not a substitue.  As a result the death and slaughter that was caused by the battle is completly lost on the reader.<br />When not caught up in the details the book is very good.  The chapters on the background, leaders and the armies are good examples of why Osprey is so sucessful.  That made the discussion of the battle all the more disappointing.	2002-06-23
US	52937546	RC1L4LTUVRZE8	1841761923	473759501	The Armada Campaign 1588: The Great Enterprise against England	Books	4	2	2	N	N	In the fine tradition of the Osprey Series	The Armada Campaign 1588 : The Great Enterprise Against England (Campaign, 86) by Angus Konstam, and Howard Gerrard (Illustrator) is written in the fine tradition of the Osprey Campaign Series.  It is written in the traditional format and describes the immediate causes and effects of the battles as well as the battle itself.<br />The book is well written and easy to follow.  The maps are very helpful and do a good job of putting the narrative into context.  When one finishes, one has a basic understanding of the wheres, whys and hows of the attempted invasion of Britain.  The fact that the British protagonists are names which bring forth images of dashing and gallant pirates, such as Francis Drake, doesn't hurt.	2002-06-07
US	52937546	R3K96YLFFKCSJ8	0198205600	671145815	Backing Hitler: Consent and Coercion in Nazi Germany (Oxford in Asia Historical Reprints)	Books	4	11	15	N	N	Interesting and Thought Provoking	Backing Hitler: Consent and Coercion in Nazi Germany by Robert Gellately is a interesting and thought provoking study of what the German people knew and when they know it.  Gellately does a fine job delving through the historical achieves, especially old newspapers, to give the reader an insight into what information was available to the German public.  <br />What is fascinating about the book is the insight which the author only touches on concerning the need of the Nazi Government to form firm a basis of popular support and their decision to take drastic steps to insure that the support did not falter.  While the Nazi could act with ruthlessness maybe only equaled by Stalin in dealing with foreigners or subhumans, when it came to its reflation with its Aryan brethren, the Nazis were sure to only go as far as they believed that their policies would be accepted.  While this limitation may have ceased with the end of the war, it does not mitigate against the fact that the German public by backing the main polices of Nazism facilitated the regimes evils deeds.<br />The fact that the Nazi publicized the formation of the concentration camps and the marginalization of the Jews and Gypsies speaks volumes about the anticipated public reaction. Gellately points out that most Germans saw these steps as part of the larger Nazi law and order campaign as well as moving Germany toward a more wholesome future.  What is terrifying about the book is not only that the German public bought in to the Nazi propaganda, but the chance that if they had not that millions upon millions of people might have lived through the war.<br />The down side of the book is that at times it is repetitions and it could have used a good editing.  The subject matter is dense, but that may not have been able ti be avoided.  This is an important book, and even with the above limitations it is a worthwhile read.	2002-06-07
US	52937546	R2MT172VMTAH5Z	1855322110	319059206	Kursk 1943: The tide turns in the East (Campaign)	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Compelling History	Kursk 1943 : Tide Turns in the East (Osprey Military Campaign Series, No 16) by Mark Healy is a fine short history of one of the critical battles on the Russian front.. Healy's writing keeps the reader centered on the battle and the whys and therefores. What is the strongest part of the book is the discussion of what each participant knew and didn't know. For instance, a critical failure of the Nazi offensive was their failure to realize the depth of the Russian defenses. <br />Healy's lead up to the battle is compelling. The conflict between the suggested strategy by the German generals of a mobile defense and Hitler's Operation Citadel is another example of Hitler's imposed \\"strategy\\" losing the war for the Germans. <br />This is one of the better books in the Osprey Military Campaign Series. The maps are excellent and after the book is finished one has an appreciation of the climatic battle.	2002-05-29
US	52937546	R1HO84PU5RWNC7	1855324784	71818682	Bagration 1944: The destruction of Army Group Centre (Campaign)	Books	3	17	20	N	N	GOOD OVERVIEW	Like most books in the Ospery series, Bagration 1944 : The Destruction of Army Group Centre, creates a good overview of the destruction of Army Group Centre.  The weakness of the book is it trys to cover too much and becomes a long narrative of attacks and movements with little perspective.  It would help if there were more maps but given the nature of Ospery that is more then can be expected.<br />The strength of the book is the discussion of how Hitler's iron fisted direction of the German defense most likely eliminated any small chance of stemming the Soviet advance.<br />All in all, it is a worthwile read if one wants to get an overview of the campaign.  However, because it is so dense it is difficult to process all of the facts.	2002-05-09
US	52937546	R2TPVBQTXAF39F	1855324709	858752851	Cannae 216 BC: Hannibal smashes Rome's Army (Campaign)	Books	5	21	21	N	N	EXCELLENT WRITING, GREAT MAPS	Cannae 216 Bc : Hannibal Smashes Rome's Army (Campaign Series, No 36) by Mark Healy is positive proof that good things do come in small packages.  While the book is short (96 pages) it is jammed pack with useful and information and maps.  If one is looking for a well written account of the Second Punic War up to the battle of Cannae there are few books which are better.<br />I purchased the book after reading a number of accounts of the battle of Cannae contained in more extensive studies of Hannibal.  However, in each case I was disappointed with the discussion of Cannae.  Healy's book was not a disappointment. Especially appealing were the maps which accompanied the prose.  What little that was missing in the verbal description was more than made up for in the maps.  <br />After finishing the book, I felt that I understood the tactics and strategy that were both planned for and carried out.  This is an excellent book and I would highly recommend it.	2002-03-17
US	52937546	R3V4YFGFGLOEZI	0865546932	694623971	A Meteor Shining Brightly	Books	3	1	3	N	N	Caught between two themes	A Meteor Shining Brightly : Essays on the Life and Career of Major General Patrick R. Cleburne by Mauriel Phillips Joslyn is a collection of numerous essays about the life of Confederate Major General Patrick R. Cleburne.  It is organized in chronological order so as to depict his entire life. The decision to organize the book in such a manner forms the foundation for the primary weakness of the endeavor.  The book is not necessarily the best essays on Cleburne's life and the different authors prevent any continuity from chapter to chapter other than time.<br />There are certain parts of Cleburne's life that are appropriate for the essay format.  Several areas are the early years in Ireland and it effect on his latter career, Cleburne's proposal that slaves be freed and incorporated into the Confederate Army and his death at the Battle of Franklin. In addition, the issue of how an individual who understood and identified with the downtrodden of Ireland could have been so devoted to the Confederacy which was based on the slavery of human beings is not even mentioned in the essays.  Instead of treating these issues in depth, the collection at best treats them as another part of Cleburne's life.  This is a shame, for Cleburne's life, and especially his proposal to enlist slaves into the Confederate Army, deserves a more in depth treatment.   <br />The collection seems to be trapped between its desire to be a biography and a collection of essays exploring different views of Cleburne's life.  By trying to do both, it did neither well. The collection does succeed in putting forward the facts of Cleburne's life in a fairly easy to read format.  The individual authors are all well qualified and write well.  However, if one is looking for a straight forward biography of Cleburne, I would suggest Stonewall of the West : Patrick Cleburne and the Civil War (Modern War Studies) by Craig L. Symonds.	2002-03-16
US	52937546	R3EH8V0M8AJHEH	0393039048	639398203	Resistance of the Heart: Intermarriage and the Rosenstrasse Protest in Nazi Germany	Books	5	8	9	N	N	A MUST MUST READ	Resistance of the Heart : Intermarriage and the Rosenstrasse Protest in Nazi Germany by Nathan Stoltzfus is a well written book about the unsuccessful attempt by the Nazi's to exterminate Jews who married Germans of the Christian faith.  The fact that the attempt was unsuccessful and that the overwhelming majority of the intermarried Jews were never sent to the death camps and survived the war leaves one with a withering feeling of \\"what if.\\"  <br />The central thesis of the book is that Hitler and Goebbels worry about the reaction of the Christian spouses led them to refuse to forcibly remove the Jewish spouse.  They instead resorted to social pressure to force a divorce, so that the Jewish spouse could then easily be sent to the death camps.  The social pressure was unsuccessful not because it was not intense, but because the Nazi's failed to give sufficient consideration to the bond between the spouses and the German antipathy toward divorce.  <br />A central part of the story focuses on the attempt to round up the intermarried Jews in Berlin for transport to the camps.  After the round up, but before their transport, they were housed in a building on Rosenstrasse.  When word of this got back to the Christian spouses they surrounded the building and refused to leave until their husband or wife was freed.  Amazingly, the Nazi's who murdered millions of Jews, Poles, Gypsies and others let thier prisoners go free.  Goebbels reasoned that it was better to not force a confrontation with Christian Germans.<br />What is clear is that the Nazis were extremely concerned about German public opinion and were willing even to ignore their plans for the final solution where it ran counter to the public opinion of even a small part of Germany's populace.  The \\"what if\\" relates to what would have happened if the greater part of Germany populace had taken the lessons of the Rosenstrasse Protest and attempted to stop the final solution.  Certainly the conventional wisdom that theywould  have been  ignored, or worse,  must be rethought.  In fact, the Rosenstrasse Protest was not an isolated incident, and numerous successful protests altered Nazi behavior.  If more Germans, or the Vatican, had learned this simple lesson maybe millions of person would not have perished in the gas chambers of the death camps.  It certainly puts to rest the excuse that there was nothing that cold have been done.<br />The book is very well researched and written.  It is well worth reading.	2002-03-10
US	52937546	ROI3M61P5526O	0140277447	803730078	The Rape of Nanking: The Forgotten Holocaust of World War II	Books	4	16	19	N	N	Horrific Description of 1937 Massacre	The Rape of Nanking : The Forgotten Holocaust of World War II by Iris Chang is at times a very difficult but necessary read.  Ms. Chang dramatically describes the brutal decimation of a city in such graphic terms that it is often necessary to put the book down.  As a frequent reader of histories of the Germany's war crimes I believed that I had read about the worst acts that one person can perpetrate against another, but I was horrified by what I read.  Hannah Arendt's description of the German death camps as the \\"banality of evil\\" certainly applies to the conduct of the Japanese in Nanking.  <br />The strength of the book is not in the details of the massacre.  While they are described in explicit detail and in such a way as to properly portray the horror of the occupation, the book excels when Ms. Chang moves on to discuss the attempts of the Japanese ruling structure to commit the \\"Second Rape of Nanking,\\" or the suppression of the actual events.  Ms. Chang does a splendid job of juxtaposing Germany's self examination of its role in the holocaust to the almost absolute failure of the Japanese ruling structure to even acknowledge that a massacre occurred, much less the horrifying scale.  <br />The events in Nanking are not isolated historical events.  The systematic rape of tens of thousands of women, the execution of hundreds of thousands of prisoners, the purposeful destruction of homes are not confined to several months of 1937 in Nanking.  The events in the former Yugoslavia make this point undebatable.  The failure of the Japanese to come to grips with the Rape of Nanking, and the world's acquiescence in this self denial, unfortunately makes the next massacre more likely.  It was Hitler who in announcing his war against the Jews told his fellow Nazis that they should have nothing to fear from the world's reaction by asking the question: Who remembered the Turkish massacre of the Armenians?  The lesson of Ms. Chang's book is that we ignore the events in Nanking at our own risk.<br />The book is written for the general public and is not an academic treatise.  For the serious student of the Massacre, it is only a start.  However, the book is well written, and except for the horrific descriptions of the killings and rapes, very<BR>readable.	2002-03-09
US	52937546	R2YYGI8TSEG0HO	1840222263	80950321	Hannibal (Wordsworth Military Library)	Books	4	13	13	N	N	Enjoyable Read	Hannibal by Ernle Bradford is a fine and enjoyable read about the history of the Second Punic War, with a principal focus on Hannibal's invasion of Italy and the subsequent 17 year occupation.  It is obvious that the author is an admirer of Hannibal, and a grudging admirer of Rome.  In some ways Hannibal is treated as a almost mythic character who not only was a military genius but attempted to fight a noble war.  The Romans, on the other hand, are portrayed as devious, untrustworthy with their only saving graces being their perseverance and ability to eventually adapt to the superior abilities of Hannibal.<br />The book greatest failures lie in the descriptions of the major battles, especially Cannae.  One of the greatest military feats of history is dealt with in a few pages.  While Bradford does describe the basics of the battle, he does so in a very perfunctory manner.  The same is true for the other major engagements.  Further, the almost total lack of maps makes the battles and the troop movements difficult to follow.<br />The strength of the book is in the description of how the Romans eventually prevailed and Hannibal's miscalculations of the Roman persistence.  After the destruction of up to 70,000 troops at Cannae, and numerous legions prior to the battle, most empires would have crumbled. Rome did not.  The reasons for Rome's survival is the best reason to read this book.	2002-03-09
US	52937546	R1IE1T5TX6G73O	0807109908	718037934	The Gleam of Bayonets: Battle of Antietam and Robert E. Lee's Maryland Campaign, September 1862	Books	4	10	11	N	N	Good Read About Bloodiest Day in US Military History	The Gleam of Bayonets by James V. Murfin is a worthwhile read concerning the bloodiest day that the American military has ever experienced.  It is not the best book I have read concerning Antietam.  For that I would recommend Landscape Turned Red : The Battle of Antietam by Stephen W. Sears.  <br />Murfin's basic premise is that Antietam was the turning point in not only the Civil War, but in American history.  The Union \\"victory\\" allowed Lincoln to issue the Emancipation Proclamation and turn the war from one concerning economics and unionism to that of one to end slavery.  By changing the nature of the conflict, intervention by the French and British was averted.  Murfin's conclusion seems to based more on his assumptions than analysis.<br />Where the book shines is in the comparison of the generalship of McClellan and Lee.  Murfin goes a fine job discussing the strengths and weaknesses of both.  For McClellan, who history has justifiedly ridiculed his handling of the entire Maryland Campaign, Murfin rightfully gives him credit for reorganizing the Army after the debacle of the Second Battle of Bull Run.  Murfin is also correct is in his conclusion that Antietam was the best chance, prior to Appomattox, that the Union had to end the War and that McClellan needlessly lost that opportunity.  On the day after the battle McClellan had up to 25,000 fresh troops, combined with at least the same number of other troops which could have been used to crush half as many battle fatigued Confederates.  The cautious McClellan chose not to fight, and Murfin may be correct, that the Union was then condemned to two more years of bloody conflict.<br />Murfin is deservedly more complimentary to Lee.  Antietam may have been Lee's greatest tactical achievement.  Outnumbered two to one, he was able to properly predict McClellan's moves and fight a battle that he should not have fought to a tactical stalemate.  Any historical reviewer should have marveled at the ability of the Confederate Army to have survived the battle, without being routed,  much less avert a Union victory.   However, Murfin properly criticizes Lee's initial decision to invade Maryland and Lee's expectation that any tangible results could be achieved.  The one point that Murfin misses is that the decision to stand and fight at Antietam needlessly sacrificed thousands of Confederate troops that Lee despritedly needed at future battles.<br />All in all, this is a good read.  The book is well written and Murfin does a fine job of interspersing quotes from the participants with his narrative.  As a result, one gets a good feel of the soldiers thoughts and feelings on that bloody field.	2002-02-26
US	52937546	R20OHKOGVO76PV	0306806983	601885899	Death Dealer: The Memoirs of the SS Kommandant at Auschwitz	Books	4	9	10	N	N	Necessary Insight into Mass Murderer	Death Dealer : The Memoirs of the SS Kommandant at Auschwitz by Rudolf Hoss is a disturbing yet necessary insight into the mind of one of histories most prolific mass murderers.  As the Kommandant of the Auschwitz death camp, Hoss was directly responsible for the murder of millions of innocents.  Given his experiences and the fact that the memoirs were written after Hoss had been sentenced to death for his crimes, one would expect that the book would be a plethora of excuses as to why he did what he did.<br />Surprisingly it is not.  Hoss has attempted to explain what he did and why he did it.  While it is difficult to say anything commendable about an integral part of Hitler's Final Solution, Hoss does a more than credible job describing the hows and whys.  That does not mean that there is no rationalizations.  Far from it, especially when it comes to the genocide of the Jews.  Hoss makes no bones about the fact that the Jews were the enemy of the German State and as such the Final Solution was justified.  His failure to explain why he feels that way is disappointing.  He comes close to stating that the genocide was a mistake.  However, he attempts to rationalize his participation as a humane act.  While this seems amazing, his argument is as follows:  that the death were rifle with diseases and hunger that were killing the inmates.  He unsuccessfully attempted to gain provisions and food to help the plight of the inmates.  Given that failure, and the inmates inevitable and horrific deaths, the gas chamber was a more humane way of dealing with the \\"problem.\\" <br />What becomes clear is that Hoss cannot accept has role in such a crime.  What was necessary to better understand Hoss as a third party questioner like Geta Sereny (See Into the Darkness about the Treblinka Kommandant).  With this limitation the memoir is a very worthwhile read.  Hoss' story is a must read for anyone who wishes to understand the ununderstandable.  After finishing the memoirs one does not fully understand the monster inside Hoss, but one does better understand how the Final Solutions could have been accomplished.	2002-02-18
US	52937546	R3ROSMBWMFBVVW	0393317552	733405472	Guns, Germs, and Steel: The Fates of Human Societies	Books	5	15	18	N	N	Superb attempt to explain history	Guns, Germs, and Steel: The Fates of Human Societies by Jared Diamond is a superb attempt to explain the fortunes of human history.  His central thesis is that the current Western-European domination of the world is not a product of superior intelligence, but of an accident of geography. Namely the Europeans were the beneficiaries of superior access to wild plants that could be utilized for food production, wild animals that could be domesticated and the absence of physical barriers permitted the transfer of technology and plants and animals from the \\"Fertile Crescent,\\" where farming was founded, to Europe.<br />The end result was that Europeans developed agricultural societies quicker than Mesoamericans, Africans and other societies. This led to larger, more dense societies with written languages, an increased resistence to germs, technological innovations and access to large beasts of burden that could be used for farming and warfare.  When the Spanish met the Incas the above advantages allowed less than 200 Spaniards to subdue an immense Inca Army.  <br />Diamond's theory is more than plausible and well argued.  Especially important is the effect of germs on the outcome of the confrontation as well as the latter ones between Europeans and most other of the worlds cultures.  At times germs, such as smallpox, effectively wiped out whole civilizations without the necessity of a single military confrontation.  The demise of the developed Native American civilizations in the Mississippi valley is a prime example.  <br />Contrary to other reviews, Diamond does not seek to use geographic determinism as an explanation for every cultural development.  As an example he readily admits that there are other important factors when considering a confrontation of two cultures with similar geographic advantages.  His explanation of why Europeans and not the Chinese colonized North America is an example.  His subscribes the failure of Chinese to complete the task not to food production, germs, or the lack of available technology, but to the 15th Century political process that China operated under.  The European system encouraged innovation as a result of numerous power centers where ideas that one center dismissed could be accepted by others.  Columbus' rejection by numerous parties before the Spanish agreed to finance his expedition is the classic example. On the other hand, China had  centralized political system so when a decision was made to stop exploration and destroy the navy there was no other place to go.<br />The book is well written and while repetitious at times it is an easy read.  If one wants to attempt to understand human history this book is a must read.	2002-02-10
US	52937546	R399D78I9TY7ZF	0060187239	630454514	April 1865: The Month That Saved America	Books	4	8	8	N	N	Good Read About Important Subject	April 1865: The Month That Saved America by Jay Winik is an interesting account of a pivotal month of the Civil War. The author attempts to explain why the Civil War ended soon after April and did not discenagrate into a guerilla war that would have continued to tear the country apart. His central thesis is that such a guerilla was possible but as a result of the efforts of Generals Lee, Johnston and Grant was avoided.<br />Winik's book should be read in conjunction with another one concerning the same subject - An Honorable Defeat: The Last Days of the Confederate Government by William C. Davis. Davis takes the opposite view regarding the possibility of the success of a guerilla war. Davis' argument is more persuasive in that Winik fails to take into account several factors. First, even during the height of the Civil War one of the most difficult problems for both sides was fraternization with the other side. On numerous sides, contrary to the express orders of officers, pickets entered into informal cease fires and traded goods. For the most part, the barbarity that is seen between armies in other civil wars was absent.<br />In addition, Winik seems to minimize the effect that sheer exhaustion had on the Southern troops. By April the Confederate Army was simply bone tired. Nathan Bedford Forrest, who Winik argues would have been a leading Confederate guerilla leader, surrendered his Army not because he was forced to by the Union but because he was exhausted from the frightening. He turned down attempts to get him to retreat across the Mississippi to continue the war. Moreover, numerous Generals and soldiers disobeyed direct order from Jefferson Davis, who wished to cntinue the struggle.<br />The above aside, the book is an important read for any student of the Civil War. Even given the Confederate Army's exhaustion it is amazing that the War ended as smoothly as it did. There was minimal residual fighting and the North was able to demobilize fairly quickly.<br />The book is well written and is an easy read. It is a must for a complete perspective on the end of the Civil War.	2002-02-10
US	52937546	R3BT2WANZYCDAD	0151005648	68905596	An Honorable Defeat: The Last Days of the Confederate Government	Books	3	6	7	N	N	Interesting read about demise of Confederates	An Honorable Defeat: The Last Days of the Confederate Government by William C. Davis is an interesting read concerning the final demise of the Confederate Government.  It follows the Confederates through the last couple months of its existence from the retreat from Richmond to Lee's surrender and the cabinet members race for freedom.<br />Its central focus is the tension between Jefferson Davis and John Breckenridge, the Confederate Secretary of War.  Davis wished to continue the War and Breckenridge hoped to end it in a honorable manner. History demonstrates that Breckenridge was the ultimate winner of the conflict, though his efforts cannot be said to have been pivotal to the outcome.<br />This book should be read in conjunction with April 1865: The Month That Saved America-- by Jay Winik.  Both cover similar subjects, with different emphasis and conclusions.<br />While the manner in which the Civil War was to end was a basic premise of the book, the book finally devolves into the account of Breckenridge and other Cabinet Members attempts to escape. While this is interesting, Davis spends much to much time describing every minute detail.  The last pages of the book border on monotony. <br />Davis' book is a good read even given its limitations.  If one wants to gain an understanding of the end of the Civil War it is a good read.	2002-02-10
US	52937546	R1JOD1VNQ1LDX0	0394588010	306881683	A History of Warfare	Books	3	8	11	N	N	Keegan goes beyond his Expertise	A History of Warfare by John Keegan is a quality history as far as it goes.  Keegan does a fine job describing the ins and outs of warfare as well as its evolutionary process.  As always Keegan writes well in a very readable manner.  His description of the warfare on Easter Island and its resulting destruction of the Polynesian civilization was especially appealing.  However, Keegan falters when he attempts to move from historian to anthropologist or psychologist.  While his attempts to explain differences in warfare by referring to cultural or psychological differences certainly have a place in understanding a history of warfare, Keegan as an historian probably isn't the person to make the argument.  His explanations at times seem simplistic and border on arm chair psychology.	2002-01-26
US	52937546	R2WJUIGT961QPV	0517597667	62415483	Reelecting Lincoln: The Battle for the 1864 Presidency	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Worthwhile read about a central political decision	Reelecting Lincoln : The Battle for the 1864 Presidency by John C. Waugh is an interesting study of the most important election in the history of our country. Almost a century and a half after the 1864 election it is easy to forget not only what was at stake but also the context in which the election was held. Waugh does a fine job presenting both as well as putting in context the individuals that made the history. What is the books main strength is the authors ability to weave all of the above together in to an understandable historical quilt.<br />Another strength of the book is the treatment of the actors as humans instead of historical icons. His treatment of Lincoln is a prime example. While Waugh certainly portrays Lincoln as the great president that he was, he shows Lincoln as a human being subject to all the requisite frailties. Lincoln's manipulation of the political system, his use of patronage for his political benefit, and other less than &quot;honest&quot; means to win the election are straightforwardly presented.<br />The main criticizism of the book is in the treatment of Lincoln's Democratic rival - George McClellan. Waugh's treatment of McClellan lacks the three dimensional aspects of Lincoln. Many questions about McClellan are left unanswered. Among them is perhaps the most important one that underlines the central premise of the book: What would have McClellan have done had he been elected? The current conventional belief is that he would ended the war or allowed the reincorporation of the Union with the survival of slavery. However, the conventional wisdom ignores the facts that McClellan was a War Democratic and certainly had always been in favor of continuing the war for the purpose of forcing reunion. Moreover, by 1864 the Confederacy was fighting for independence and was not interested in rejoining the Union. Whether the Peace Democratic could have forced McClellan to abandon the war is questionable, and deserved more consideration. <br />Thebottom line is that this is a worthwhile read about a central political decision in our nations history.	2001-10-21
US	52937546	R2Q9SIKAXKILNT	0375400524	841119426	The First World War	Books	4	1	3	N	N	A Worthwhile Read	The First World War by John Keegan is a wonderful overview of the First World War, its cause and its effect. Much of the book is devoted to troop movements and the resulting battles and is hard to follow. Worse are the maps which tend to confuse more than explain. With this limitation the book is very worthwhile.<br />Keegan's strength is on describing why the war began and the historical context in which it was played out. He goes to great lengths to describe how each event effected a latter event, whether it be the Russian Revolution or the Second World War. <br />Keegan writes marvelously and the book for the most part flows well. This was my first book on the First World War and it gave me a good overview. All in all a worthwhile read.	2001-09-27
US	52937546	RUQWR2KHBOWUH	0817302298	960207352	Attack and Die: Civil War Military Tactics and the Southern Heritage	Books	3	15	19	N	N	GOOD READ FOR SOMEONE WHO ALREADY HAS A GOOD BACKGROUND	Attack and Die : Civil War Military Tactics and the Southern Heritage by Grady McWhiney and Perry D. Jamieson is a good compliment to other more complete histories of the Civil War. In and of itself the book is too focused on its central thesis - that the South lost due to the compulsion of its generals to be on the offensive and the resulting high casualty rate. While these tactics certainly had a dramatic effect on the outcome, the authors fail to put them in to the proper context of other causes.<br />The strength of the book is in its description of the reasons for the Confederate strategy, and the failure of almost all Civil War generals to come to grips with the effect that the introduction of the rifle had on the upcoming battles. The authors trace the introduction of the rifle and the displacement of the musket as well as how the tactics that were used being generally premised on the musket. What was missing was any refrence to General Longstreet's plan for the strategic offense combined with tactical defense. This is exactly what Longstreet suggested to Lee before the second day of Gettysburg.<br />The most interesting part of the book is the last two chapters. The second to last discusses how the Mexican War experiences of the generals predisposed the participants to take the offensive, since that is how the Mexican War was won. The increased accuracy and killing power of the rifle made those tactics obsolete. <br />The last chapter is the most interesting, although the authors may have taken their conclusions too far. Their conclusion is that given the Celtic roots of the Confederate Generals that they were culturally programmed to take the offensive. While the cultural antecedents of the generals cannot be dismissed as a factor, the Celtic battles that the authors discuss took place generations before the Civil War. <br />This is a worthwhile read for someone who already has a good Civil War background.	2001-09-27
US	52937546	R2F452CEOV69PW	1887901159	634024522	How Robert E. Lee Lost the Civil War	Books	4	20	26	N	N	Worthwhile attempt to discuss Lee's generalship	How Robert E. Lee Lost the Civil War by Edward H Bonekemper is an interesting book whichgoes too far to prove its point. In overstating his case that Lee was responsible for the Confederate failure, Bonekemper belief that Lee was not the military genius that history has made him is lost. <br />The central thesis is that Lee's offensive strategy, combined with overly complicated battle plans,led to the destruction of the Confederate Army and their inability to respond to Grant's offensive<br />strategy in '84 and '85. There is much evidence for the proposition that the offensive strategy bleed the Confederacy to the point where Lee was forced to retreat to Richmond. There is also much evidence to support the proposition that most of Lee's victories resulting in a higher percentage of casualties then suffered by the Union were phyric, at best. The most obvious fact is that the Union could absorb the losses and the South could not.<br />Whether a change in strategy would have resulted in a Confederate victory is an open question. However, given the political nature of the war, and the Northern war weariness, Lee's ability to continue to bleed the North could not have helped Lincoln get reelected. <br />Lee forgot that he did not have to win, just not lose. If there had been more Frederickburgs and less Chancellorvilles, both Lee &quot;victories&quot;, Lee may have not lost. Bonekemper does a fine job bringing these issues to the forefront. If for only this reason, this is a worthwhile book.	2001-09-27
US	52937546	RO4M5TTAB87WN	0252016521	330824329	No Better Place to Die: The Battle of Stones River	Books	3	2	4	N	N	OK, but not first choice of Civil War books	No Better Place to Die : The Battle of Stones River by Peter Cozzens is a decent history of an important, but little discussed, Civil War battle. The strength of the book is Cozzens' discussion of the historical context of the battle as well as the personalties involved. Of particular interest was the description of Generals Rosecrans and Bragg and the roles that they played in the outcome. <br />However, the books weakness almost overcomes the positives. As far as the actual battle was concerned, it was difficult to follow what was actually happening. The maps were not particularly helpful. This was disappointing since the tone and momentum of the battle radically changed from the first to the second day. Cozzens does little to describe how this change in fortune occurred.<br />I was happy to have read this book, although it would not be my first choice of Civil War books.	2001-09-27
US	52937546	R1G2HE0QI2S637	0684838575	520140173	Shiloh: The Battle That Changed the Civil War	Books	4	18	18	N	N	VERY READABLE HISTORY OF A CRUCIAL CIVIL	Shiloh : The Battle That Changed the Civil War by Larry J. Daniel is a fine history of the first bloody battle of the Civil War. While much of the book follows the troop movements that occurred during the two day battle, the strength of the book is when Daniel moves away from the specifics of the battle and deals with the personalties involved as well as its cause and effect.<br />The book is well written, although it is difficult to follow much of the discussion concerning specific troop movements and the maps are not that helpful. However, that does not detract from the fine descriptions of the major players and their strengths and weaknesses. While Daniel is justifiedly critical of all of the major players, he is perhaps too forgiving of Sherman's role in allowing the surprise attack to occur.<br />Daniel goes to lengths to describe how Grant manipulated the situation to ensure that Sherman would be the senior Division Commander present at Pittsburg Landing, but then does not sufficiently discus his failure to have the troops entrench. It was that failure that allowed the Confederate surprise attack to almost succeed. <br />The above failure aside this was a very readable history of a crucial Civil War battle.	2001-09-27
US	52937546	R2LF8UAQ6878ZQ	039587744X	950486766	Chancellorsville	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Good History of Battle	Chancellorsville by Stephen W. Sears is mostly a wonderful read, which at times bogs down in the mountain of details that Sears injects into the narrative.  I have read other books by Sears, and while I enjoyed his book on Antietam more, Chancellorsville is a marvelous history of the battle and the campaign that led to the battle.  The books strength is in his description of the two leaders, Hooker and Lee.<br />The conventional wisdom is that Hooker was an egotistical general whose only qualification was this ability to undermine General Burnside.  On the other hand, the battle is seen as Lee's finest hour, where his brilliant plan led to a rout of the Union forces.  Sears proves both wrong.  Hooker took over a highly demoralized Army of the Potomac and through planning and his own charisma was able to revitalize it into a fighting force that came close to destroying the Confederate Army.  His planning of the Campaign was unmatched in the Civil War.  He even anticipated the flanking action that eventually lost him the battle, and had warned the commander of the 11th Corp.  However, his warnings were ignored.<br />Lee, on the other hand took a risk that could have ultimately led to the destruction of the Confederate Army.  His decision to split his Army twice, leaving a part at Fredericksburg and then allowing Jackson to attempt to out flank Hooker, should have led to disaster.  If Howard had listened to Hooker it would have.  However, it did not and Lee is remembered as the genius of Chancellorsville.  This is so even though his Army suffered a greater percentage of casualties then the Union forces.<br />The battle of Chancellorsville proves Napoleon's axiom: \\"Bring me lucky generals.\\"  At Chancellorsville Lee became a genius as a result.	2001-08-31
US	52937546	R26JLT8PCQKX1R	0700608850	22573863	The Confederacy's Greatest Cavalryman: Nathan Bedford Forest (Modern War Studies)	Books	4	22	27	N	N	Even Handed Biography	The Confederacy's Greatest Cavalryman : Nathan Bedford Forrest (Modern War Studies) by Brian Steel Wills is a fine biography of perhaps the most complicated and interesting leader of the Civil War.  In describing Forrest it is difficult, if not impossible, to remain neutral.  For those that love or hate him there is plenty of ammunition.  However, Wills does a better than anticipated job taking the neutral course.<br />For those that view Forrest as the reincarnation of the Devil, there is plenty of evidence, and Wills covers most of it.  Forrest was a crude, ruffian slave trader who would not think twice of killing a man who he believed showed him disrespect.  As Willis writes, he was responsible for the massacre of Union troops at Fort Pillow.  As a General he was brilliant when in independent command, but did not do well when working under someone elses command or part of a larger team.  This failure limited his ability to have a greater impact on the course of the War.  His failure to work with other Generals who he believed were inferior was part of the reason that the Union Army was able to escape destruction at Spring Hill.  <br />On the other hand, Forrest was a brilliant tactician and a real leader of men.  From leading his troops out of the encirclement at Fort Donaldson to his brilliant victory at Bryce Creek, Forrest was a fighter and a leader. Furthermore, if Hood had listened to Forrest after Spring Hill, and allowed Forrest to out flank the Union troops at Franklin, the battle of Franklin may have been a Confederate victory rather than a disaster.<br />Willis deftly moves between the several General Forrests.  He seems not to have an agenda, giving the good with the bad.  At least until the Civil War ends.  While Wills does describe Forrest's contribution to the founding and growth of the Ku Klux Klan, he seems to hold his punches.  However, that is a slight criticism.  Al in all, this is a good book about one of the most interesting personalities inthe Civil War.	2001-08-31
US	52937546	RN0E8HNM33NXP	0304352845	423622789	The Punic Wars	Books	4	15	18	N	N	Interesting Trip Back in Time	The Punic Wars by Adrian Goldsworthy is a wonderful trip back into time.  It is difficult to translate wars and battles that took place over 2000 years ago and make them relevant to modern times.  Goldsworthy does a fine job but fails in the latter.  <br />His strength is in describing what happened in the three Punic Wars.  The book is not just a military history of the era, but also a political one as well.  He spends considerable time analyzing the political climate that led to almost 50 years of war between Carthage and Rome.  The strength is in the First Punic War that led the groundwork for the other two.  After reading the book one does understand why the wars were fought.<br />As a military history, the book is limited by a absence of primary sources describing the battles.  The one exception are the battles fought by and against Hannibal.  His description of the battle of Caenne, with a marvelous narrative of how Hannibal was able to destroy a numerically superior Roman force.  He describes the battle in sufficient detail so as to allow the reader to understand the basics of Hannibal's successful tactics.<br />Where Goldsworthy does not excel is in his attempt to make the Wars relevant to the present.  While there are parallels between the Wars and the First and Second World Wars they are unlimited and overplayed.  In addition, while he is correct that Carthage did not understand the Roman for pension for \\"playing for keeps\\" rather than to obtain a favorable negotiated treaty, that lesson also had limited applicability.<br />The Punic Wars is interesting reading because of the effect that the Wars had on our history.  That is reason enough to read the book.  The fact that it is so well written just adds to the allure.	2001-08-31
US	52937546	REGUN10ZCLU8K	0805060685	233950020	Cries Unheard: Why Children Kill: The Story of Mary Bell	Books	4	30	37	N	N	Disturbing Story, But Worth Reading	Cries Unheard is not an easy book to review.  Like Sereny's other books on Albert Speer (Hitler's Chief of Armaments) and Franz Stangl. (the Commander of the Treblinka Death Camp) one picks up the book with the hope that one will find answers to the question of why people commit evil acts.  Sereny did not give the reader an easy, pat answer when dealing with Stangl and Speer, and neither did she make such an attempt in dealing with Mary Bell.<br />However unlike Stangl and Speer, who were adults and unquestionably knew what they were doing was wrong if not \\"evil,\\" the same can not be said for Mary Bell.  When Mary committed the murders she was a young child who did not understand the true consequences of her actions.  Sereny explores Mary's psyche as well as the environment in which she lived in order to answer the question of why she committed theses unspeakable acts.  As always, Sereny does not pull any punches when dealing with Mary, although she is clearly more forgiving than she was with Stangl or Speer.  Importantly, Sereny in no way seeks to excuse the murders or minimize the horror that the victims families were forced to endure.  She also makes clear that Mary knew that her conduct was wrong even if she did not understand the finality of death.<br />What comes out of the book is that there were multiple causative factors that led to the murders.  Among them was the abusive home in which she lived as well as the total lack of a support network.  However, Sereny does not rest with the easy answer that abuse equals murder.  After all Norma Bell (no relation), who committed the second murder with Mary, did not come from an abusive home.  At the end of the book there is no real answer as to why the murders were committed.<br />The book is written against the backdrop of increasing penalties for juvenile offenders.  While Sereny's political agenda unquestionably effected the writing, Mary's story is compelling for the murders as well as her incarceration and herrehabilitation.  Given all that happened to Mary, the murders, the imprisonment, and an abusive mother Mary seems to be living a productive life and ably raising her child.  Perhaps Mary's present life, and the way in which she got there, is a more important story than the murders.	2001-06-03
US	52937546	R254KXK4EXMKBS	0870493973	750603382	Five Tragic Hours Battle Of Franklin	Books	4	36	39	N	N	Meeting the Controversy Concerning General Hood Head On	It is difficult to review Five Tragic Hours without dealing with the quality of the generalship of John Hood.  Was Hood simply carrying out his orders from Jefferson Davis to take the offensive or was he a man who had been promoted beyond his competence and who refused to acknowledge his limitations?  The authors of Five Tragic Hours unquestionably adopt the latter approach.  They are correct.<br />The sad truth was that Hoods adventure was doomed before it began.  His objective, the capture of Nashville, was an impossible task given the size of his the Army of Tennessee, its lack of supplies, the extensive defensive fortifications at Nashville, and the fact that the Army of the Cumberland was commanded by George Thomas,  arguably the Union's ablest general.  Furthermore, whatever chances Hood had evaporated when he allowed General Scofield and his train to escape unscathed at Spring Hill.<br />The authors most pointed and just criticism of Hood was his failure to accept the advise of his subordinates.  If he had listened to General Nathan Bedford Forrest he could have outflanked Scofield at Franklin and forced the Union troops to fight outside set fortifications.  Instead, Hood forced a battle without the benefit of his artillery that should have know could not succeed.  The charges at Fredericksburg, Cold Harbor and Gettysburg, as well as Hoods multiple unsuccessful attacks during the Battle of Atlanta should have informed Hood of the results of his \\"plan.\\"<br />The Battle of Franklin was a waste of men occasioned by a general who had not learned that the days of the successful frontal assault were gone.  Hood was a commendable divisional commander.  But as a leader of the Army of Tennessee he was a disaster.	2001-06-03
US	52937546	R5I8U1PNM7FTV	0395656680	1817676	Landscape Turned Red: The Battle of Antietam	Books	5	7	9	N	N	Wonderful Book About A Bloody Day	Sears is one of the best authors of the Civil War genre and Landscape Turned Red is no exception.  In Landscape Turned Red Sears brings to life the bloodiest day in the history of the American military.  Almost a century and half after the battle of Antietam, after numerous wars and battles, Antietam still stands as the most deadly day for America's fighting men, with approximately 50,000 casualties.<br />That fact would be enough to make the book worth reading.  While Sears gives a broad and well written history of the facts that lead to the battle as well as the battle itself, he does not ignore the men who gave so much. In reading the book, one gets as close to the blood and gore as one can without actually being there.  Sears has the ability of personalizing the events and bringing the slaughter as close as a Matthew Brady photograph.<br />Sears saves his criticism for the leaders, with the exception of Lee.  His harshest criticism is justly directed toward McClelland.  Even with twice as many men as Lee and Lee's complete battle plan, McClelland was unable to beat Lee.  At the crucial point in the battle, after tens of thousands had been sacrificed and the Confederate middle was near collapse, McClelland held back the reinforcements that could have crushed the Confederacy.  However, he needlessly blinked.  Sears makes no secret of his feeling concerning McClelland generalship.<br />Where Sears falls short is in his analysis of Lee's conduct.  While it is true that Lee saved his army from destruction and won a tactical stalemate, from a strategic view Antietam and the whole Maryland campaign was a disaster.  If McClelland had been any more aggressive, or had seemingly minor incidences turned against Lee, the Confederate Army of Northern Virginia could have been destroyed.  In deciding to fight McClelland, Lee made the same mistake that he made countless times.  He forgot that the Confederate Army could not replace the thousands lost at Antietam, Gettysburg, or even his victories at Chancellorsville and else where.  On the other hand, the Union could readily replace its losses.  Lee's \\"victories\\" bled his army dry.<br />Not only did Lee not defeat the Union Army, his goal of bringing significant Marylanders into the war failed.  The stalemate allowed McClelland to claim victory and directly led to the Emancipation Proclamation and the end of any chance of foreign intervention on behalf of the South.  Sears does not ask the right questions concerning the most basic issue concerning Lee.  Should he have initiated the campaign in the first instance?  <br />That aside this is a wonderful book about a very bloody day.	2001-06-03
US	52937546	R3TPEHZSIGHYN1	0312868537	836754189	199 Days: The Battle for Stalingrad	Books	4	7	8	N	N	First-Class Treatment of Stalingrad	It is difficult, if not impossible, for an American to truly understand the carnage, death and destruction that took place during the Battle of Stalingrad.  While we are rightfully horrified at battles that produce thousands of casualties, the Battle of Stalingrad produced hundreds of thousands if not millions.  This is just not a perswpective that is within out mindset.  However, Hoyt does a superior job bringing the destruction home.<br />Hoyt does a splendid job describing the whats, wheres and whys of the battle.  He gives a complete overview of the acts that led to the battle as well as an analysis of how the battle came to be fought and the way in which it was fought.  While explaining the history of the battle, Hoyt never forgets that the true story of Stalingrad is the history of the individual Russian soldiers and commanders that should of admitted defeat, but did not and ultimately prevailed.  He also adeptly explains how the brutality of the Nazi invasion came back to haunt the invaders and unite a country that heretofore was horribly splintered.<br />What is also very interesting about 199 Days is Hoyt's treatment of Stalin and Hitler.  He describes the political, psychological and other forces that shaped their response to the changing circumstances and gives praise and criticism where earned.  <br />This is a first-class treatment of Stalingrad and a must read for anyone who wishes to explore the limits of human suffering and bravery.	2001-06-03
US	52937546	R1QOORNU5OZEXK	031225346X	931904718	The Prometheus Deception	Books	3	2	2	N	N	Fun, but nothing special	I used to relish the publishing of a new Ludlum novel.  From the Scarletti Inheritance onward, I would put aside at least a day and read the book cover to cover.  Unfortunately, the allure of Ludlum's novels wore off as they became more predicable.  If I have on major criticism of  The Prometheus Deception it is that it is predicable.<br />From the opening scene to the end I was able to predict the next twist and turn.  Moreover, the main character, the master international retired spy who is forced to come out of retirement, is one that Ludlum has used time and time again.  The big problem is that Ludlum has been unable to recreate Jason Bourne, and for that he probably cannot be faulted.<br />If one gets past the predictability. The Prometheus Deception is a fun read.  It has a fast pace and the writing as always is wonderful.  The main character is well defined and is more than the cardboard spy in most novels of this genre.  I enjoyed the book although I wish that I could forget, as I read,  the dozen or so other Ludlum novels that I had previously read.	2001-06-02
US	52937546	R1O0C7UVJWEBX5	070060748X	809880535	Decision in the West: The Atlanta Campaign of 1864 (Modern War Studies)	Books	4	8	9	N	N	Fine History	Castel's history of the Atlanta Campaign is well written and a fine study of the events.  What is most interesting about the book is the study of the personalties involved.  He makes no bones about the fact that he believes that Sherman has been overrated as a general, and at times it seemed that his criticism of Sherman was based on the advantage of hindsight.  While Sherman may not have been the military genius that some have portrayed him as, Castel seems to lose sight of the fact that he did lead the force that captured Atlanta with casualties that were low enough to allow the division of his army into forces that would march to the sea and also crush what was left of the Confederate Army of Tennessee at the battles of Franklin and Nashville.  <br />But that aside, Castel's treatment of the politics of the campaign, both on the Confederate and Union side, was the books strength.  He does a fine job of putting the campaign into the political context of the 1864 Presidential election.  Although he may have exaggerated its importance, Castel correctly points out that the capture of Atlanta removed any doubt that Lincoln would be reelected.<br />The treatment of Confederate politics is also well handed.  Concentrating on the pressure put on General Johnson to defend Atalanta and his conflict with Jefferson Davis, Castel explains one of the general failings of the Confederacy.  Other than Lee, Davis trust in the wrong generals.  This led to Castel's harshest criticism and the command of General Hood.<br />Decision in the West does a fine job is explaining the whats, hows and whys of the Atlanta Campaign.  It was a worthwhile read.	2001-06-02
US	52937546	R1J4RI2DHOALVA	0312156170	120679768	Classic Turkish Cooking	Books	5	27	29	N	N	Great Cook Book	We returned from Turkey in love with the food,  with a suitcase full of Turkish spices and the first thing we did was look for a cookbook.  Classic Turkish Cooking had been recommended by a friend while we were in Turkey and the recommendation paid off.<br />This is a wonderful cookbook.  The instructions are well laid out and are easy to follow.  There are good expatiations of the dishs, even for a non-Turkish audience.  The pictures are helpful in choosing the dishes.  We made our first dish a week after we got back for some Middle Eastern friends and it was a success.  This is a great cookbook that does justice to a fine cuisine.	2001-06-02
US	52937546	R2RYPMUHEFE60S	1897959257	544819234	Warrant for Genocide: The Myth of the Jewish World Conspiracy and the Protocols of the Elders of Zion	Books	4	27	34	N	N	A good book about an important subject.	Cohn's study of the creation and the effect of the Protocols of the Elders of Zion is enlightening, disturbing and at times maddening.  He traces the beginnings of the myth, moves on to how it developed and then ends with its use.  As an historical piece this book is worth reading, but its real strength is in explaining how a patently unbelievable story could have had such a devesting effect on so many people.  The effected were not just the peasants of Russia but the educated class of Germany, France and other parts of Europe.<br />When one first understands thesis of the myth the reaction is how could anyone have believed this ....  It would be akin to convincing a nation that Alice in Wonderland is an accurate description of a little girls journey.  However, the historical truth is that thousands if not millions relied on the myth as a framework that led to the holocaust.  Nations used the myth as a framework for policies and laws.   What becomes clear is that no matter how unbelievable the story is that many believed it and acted on it.  Given this historical fact, Cohn's book can best be seen as a warning and reminder to think before one believes.<br />This is a good book about an important subject.	2001-03-17
US	52937546	RTWFRATDYK61F	0700608206	275186270	Stonewall of the West: Patrick Cleburne and the Civil War (Modern War Studies)	Books	4	20	20	N	N	Good book and a worthwhile read	Symonds' book is a fine biography of one of the better Confederate generals.  It focuses on the life of Cleburne, from his early years to his wasteful death at the battle of Franklin.  This is the strength of the book, but also its weakness.  This would be a difficult read for someone who does not already have some background in the history of the Army of Tennessee.  Symonds, in concentrating on Cleburne and the soldiers fighting under his command at times fails to give sufficient historical perspective in order to provide an understanding of  why or how certain events occurred.<br />At times the failure to give perspective limits the impact of Cleburne's accomplishments.  One prime example is the siege at Chattanooga and Cleburne's defense of Missionary Ridge.  Cleburne faced what was thought to be the cream of the Union's western forces in Sherman's Corp.  While Cleburne was able to soundly defeat these forces while being outnumbered, the rest of the Confederate forces, fighting from what were thought to be impregnable positions, collapsed.  Cleburne then acted as the rear guard, inflicted hard blows on the Union Army, and literally saved the Army of Tennessee from destruction.<br />Cleburne is a fascinating historical character for numerous reasons and Symonds does a fine job of describing who he is.  His early life in Ireland and Arkansas is particularly interesting.  In describing Cleburne's roots, Symonds helps answer why so many non-slave owners gave their lives for the Confederacy.  Given Cleburne's background, he believed that he owed his position in life to those in Arkansas who helped him get there.  His loyalty was thus to his state rather than to a nation.  It is a hard concept to understand in this century, but it was not unusual in Cleburne's.<br />This is a good book and a worthwhile read.  It is a fine complement to a general history of the Army of Tennessee.	2001-03-17
US	52937546	R34PIAFWJ0SYLN	0029089263	147952475	Fall of the Asante Empire: The Hundred-Year War for Africa's Gold Coast	Books	5	7	11	N	N	Great Book	This is a great book, epically for a novice in African history.  While American are taught about the different European civilizations we are thoroughly ignorant about similar African civilizations.  The Asante Empire was long established in Western Africa (present Ghana) and had an advanced civilization.  They had a well organized army, with at the time of the first conflict with Britain, were armed with modern muskets.  They had a well organized government and religion.<br />The conflict with the British was far from a cake walk for the British.  The Asante fought bravely for their freedom and gave the British everything that they could handle.  The British were not able to subdue the Asante until the progress in arms technology made the Asante armaments obsolete and gave the British a huge advantage.  Eventually it was British  howitzers vs. Asante  muskets.	2001-01-26
US	52937546	R1C7HPUZG660WU	0465075096	116036272	Summer For The Gods: The Scopes Trial And America's Continuing Debate Over Science And Religion	Books	4	13	14	N	N	Good Historical Review	Larson's book is an interesting historical review of the Monkey Trials and the events that led to it.  As a history of the trial itself, the book is wanting.  As a fan of Inherit the Wind, the legal confrontation between Darrow and Bryan was a prime reason for my picking the book in the first instance.  However, Larson seems to concentrate more on the hows and whys of the trial rather than what actually happened.<br />Where the book excels is in the description of the historical context of the trial and the results.  For instance, the description of how the trial helped led to the development of both the ACLU and the Christian Right is a strength.  Furthermore, the interplay between Darrow, who was not wanted by the ACLU, and the ACLU was fascinating.  The bottom line is that Larson does a fine job of placing the Monkey Trial in the proper historical context.  <br />All in all, this was a good read.  The writing is excellent and flows easily.	2001-01-26
US	52937546	RDZ580LUZVNL7	081281830X	805260544	Napoleon and Talleyrand: The last two weeks	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Fascinating History	Barbara Makanowitzky's history of the conflict between Napoleon and Talleyrand in the last two weeks of Napoleon's reign is a fascinating historical review.  While much has been written about the military campaigns of Napoleon, this book is perhaps one of the best at describing why he actually fell from power.  <br />What becomes clear is that even after the debacle in Russia, and the many subsequent defeats during his retreat through Europe, it was not a forgone conclusion that Napoleon, or his surrogate, would still not rule.  In fact, from a military point of view, Napoleon did not have to surrender when he did.  While Napoleon may have factored in the response of the Allies in determining his future, the one person who he failed to take into consideration was his ex-Foreign Minister Talleyrand.<br />Talleyrand knew what the Allies should have known.  That Europe was not secure until Napoleon was forever removed from the throne of France.  It was a tribute to Talleyrand that he was able to maneuver the Allies, French Generals and the French people into assuring that Napoleon or his son would not keep the throne.<br />The book is well written and although it is full of information flows easily.  This is a good read.	2001-01-26
US	52937546	R13RLOYO39TQAO	0375502807	82772270	Into Thin Air: A Personal Account of the Mount Everest Disaster (The Illustrated Edition)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	One of the best book I ever read	Krakauer's book is one of the best books that I have ever read.  When I finished it I was unhappy because I wanted to know more about the characters that made up the story.  I don't believe that there can be a greater compliment to an author.<br />What made the book so readable was the way in which the author chose to tell the story.  The attempted climb up Everest, and the resulting deaths certainly created the ingredients for a compelling story.  However, Krakauer did not stop with the mere telling of the story.  The strength of the book lies in the human story and the tragic waste of human life that took place.  Krakauer brings you almost inside the heads of the different players as they ascend Everest and make numerous life and death decisions.  You get to the point where know these people intimately and grieve their deaths.  Especially painful was the death of Rob Hall, the climb leader.  His telephone call to his wife as he was dying on top of the mountain was particularly disconcerting.  You almost felt as helpless as his wife must have felt.<br />Krakauer also does a fine job dealing with the causes of the disaster.  He doesn't lay blame in the traditional sense, but talks about the general causes and then lets the reader draw his own conclusions.  For instance, he writes about the commercialism of the climbs and the money that could be made by taking on inexperienced climbers.  Scott Fischer, the leader of the other party that was trapped, clearly fell victim to this greed.<br />Lastly, when reading the book, I got a good picture of why anyone would want to climb Everest.  One might expect that this book would turn anyone off, given the tragic results.  However, the opposite was true.  After the book was done I wished that I was a 21 year old again with the $50,000.00 necessary to explore the top of the world.  <br />If you only read one book, Into Thin Air should be on the short list.	2001-01-25
US	52937546	R1ET8VWCG2OIIC	031215593X	922886977	Mountains Touched with Fire: Chattanooga Besieged, 1863	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Good Companion to Sword�s Other Book	Mountains Touched with Fire is a fine history of the the battle of Chickamauga and the resulting siege and relief of Chattanooga.  It is the perfect companion to Sword's other book dealing with the western front -  Embrace an Angry Wind : The Confederacy's Last Hurrah Spring Hill, Franklin, and Nashville.  <br />Mountains Touched traces the battle in detail from the Union loss of Chickamauga to the raising of the subsequent siege of Chattanooga.  Sword excels in describing the effect of the battle on the common soldier and the interplay of the Union and Confederate Generals and the effect that it had on the outcome. His description of the charge up Missionary Ridge is at times griping.  He takes particular care in describing the fact that the charge was in direct violation of General Grant's orders and was the result of the spontaneous action of the Union rank and file.<br />He, like others, is especially critical of Braxton Bragg and almost all of the other Confederate commanders.  Of the Union Generals, he is not as critical.  However, his description of the successful frontal charge up Missionary Ridge and the simotaineous stalemate with Sherman's troops on the northern side of the Ridge reveals that Sword believed that luck, as much as anything else was the reason for the Union victory.  If there is a General that Sword is positive about it is General Thomas.  The same is true of his other book.  Combined they reveal that Sword believes that Thomas is an unsung hero of the Civil War.<br />The book is well written, although at times the detail seems excessive.  The weakness of the book is the maps or lack thereof.  At times it is difficult to follow the battle sequences and place them in a geographical context.	2001-01-25
US	52937546	R2ILCLI47WSE21	0939443031	56392019	God's Politician	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Introduction to a forgotten hero	Lean's story of William Wilberforce is a good introduction to a forgotten hero.  A man who was raised with privilege and who was friends with the power brokers of Britain, staked his political career, as well as many friendships on the ending the slave trade and bringing morality into the political life of his country.<br />Although the book is not an extensive study, it does succinctly tell the tale of the end of the British slave trade.  While the book discussed Wilberforce' conversion, it is not preachy, and seeks to discuss the conversion within the political context.  This book is a fine edition to an understanding of the slave trade and its end.	2000-12-28
US	52937546	R2QKXY0YLE0KER	1585741221	664008737	Brady's Civil War	Books	4	8	10	N	N	Excellant Compilation	Mr. Webb's compilation of the photographs of Matthew Brady is a fine edition to any Civil War library. The only limitation is one of expectations.  In Brady's age the technology of photography was limited when compared to todays standards.  The lack of fast film, or for that matter film as we know it, meant that all pictures had to be stages.  Thus, there are no actual photographs of the numerous battles.  Once one gets past these limitations, the compilation is excellent.<br />The best photographs are the portraits and the after battle scenes.  The portraits rival those taken by the best portrait photographers of today.  My favorites are of Sherman and of Grant. The one of Sherman properly conveys the sense of the man who led the destructive march through Georgia and to the sea.<br />The after battle scenes are equally compelling.  A pity of the Civil War is that because we are left with mostly written descriptions of the battles that the horror is sometime lost in the perceived gallantly.  The destructiveness and human costs are boldly portrayed in the photographs of the dead and dying.  The pictures of the numerous amputees were especially effective.	2000-12-28
US	52937546	R3FNZ9S3G9RWEQ	068482535X	799300305	Lincoln	Books	5	9	10	N	N	Complex Story of an American Icon	Donald's Lincoln is a rare compilation of the many faces of a complex icon of American history.  We are used to looking at Lincoln, as well as Washington, as these larger than life figures who were loved and adored by their contemporaries and who unshakably led the nation out of crisis.  While in the end Lincoln may have been larger than life, Donald presents him as undeniably human with all the attendant passions, loves, emotions and idiosyncracies.<br />It is probably because Donald's Lincoln comes across so human that one really feels in awe when his accomplishments are considered. The Lincoln that saved the Union was also the Lincoln that broke down with the deaths of his sons, who too easily suspended the civil rights of Northerners, and who was hated by major parts of his own Republican Party.  Donald shows each side of Lincoln, as the loving father and ruthless politician.  The book is so compelling that even though one knows that he was assassinated, that one hopes that the end of the book will be different.<br />The only limitation is one that Donald readily admits to.  That being that the book is focused on Lincoln and his experiences.  The major battles and events of the Civil War are dealt with in a cursory fashion and only as to how Lincoln viewed then or was effected.  As it realties to the War, the book is a political rather then a military history.  While I have extensively read about the War, it is my assumption that if one does not have a solid background, a lot of the nuance will be lost.<br />All in all this is a must read.	2000-12-28
US	52937546	R16Z5GNI6A7G38	1580620604	737141375	Beyond Hitler's Grasp: The Heroic Rescue of Bulgaria's Jews	Books	5	43	43	N	N	A Must Read	Mr. Bar Zohar intricate and well researched study of the rescue of Bulgaria's Jews is an insightful look into how a nation saved its own citizens from the death camps.  The book is well written and at times flows like a novel.  It is a must for any serious student of the holocaust or of Bulgaria.<br />What I found most interesting is the juxtaposition of the treatment of Bulgarian's own Jews with their abandonment of the Jews of Macedonia to the Nazis.  While the Bulgarians, from the King down to common citizens stood up and placed their lives in jeopardy in order to save the Jewish citizens of Bulgaria, they hardly lent a hand to save from deportation to the death camps the Jews of the territories that they annexed.   Bar-Zohar does not extensively discuss this dichotomy, even though it reenforces his central thesis that Bulgarians saw Bulgarian-Jews as Bulgarians and not as Jews.<br />The story of the rescue has a larger message beyond that of a single nation.  It makes one question what might have happened had more leaders had the courage of King Boris III in standing up to Hitler.  It is a pity that Bar-Zohar did not spend more time discussing the wider implications.<br />Finally, the book is worth reading if only to remind one that there were people when faced with the Nazi horror who did the right thing.  That there were Christians who stood up, and based on their religious beliefs, rescued non-Christians because their faith compelled them to do so.	2000-12-19
US	52937546	R297J2DRABM832	0679431519	497867283	Explaining Hitler: The Search for the Origins of His Evil	Books	5	5	7	N	N	Brilliant Expose	Rosenbaum Explaining Hitler could properly be renamed Explaining Evil.  It is a brilliant expose into the way that contemporary righters, historians and authors have sought to explain what some think is unexplainable.  As important, the book presents a fine spring board for further reading on the subject.<br />What one comes away with is that there is no single way to explain Hitler, and that it is only when one infuses the multitude of explanations that any meaningful answer comes forward.  Rosenbaum leaves out no possible explanation.  Even those that are highly controversial.  For instance in his chapter on Steiner he explores the concept that the Jews themselves could have been responsible for some of the anti-Semitism that existed in Nazi Germany. After reading the book I obtained a copy of Steiner's The Portage to San Cristobal of A.H.  (A very good read and highly recomended). While Rosenbaum clearly does not believe that the Jews were responsible, and neither did Steiner for that matter, the chapter does make one think about Jews as active actors in the holocaust instead of the passive victims that they are often portrayed as.<br />Equally fascinating was the chapter on Goldhagen and the participation of the average German in the holocaust.  While Rosenbaum certainly has a biased against Goldhagen, he presents each side of the controversy.  From this chapter I read Turner's book on the Nazi rise to power, as well as Sereny's books on Franz Stengel and Speer.  What comes out of the analysis is that while the acquiescence of the German people played a major role in the holocaust, this does not provide a singular explanation.<br />What was most disturbing was the chapter on Claude Lanzmann and the belief that to even ask \\"why\\" as to the cause of Hitler's evil is to disrespect the victims of the holocaust.  Lanzmann, the creator of the film on the holocaust seeks to present himself as the be all and end all of holocaust studies.  He ignores the fact that the inability to ask why is one important thing help define the concentration camps.  <br />Rosenbaum does not seek to give the answer as to the origin of Hitler's evil.  When I purchased the book I was hoping for such an answer, but by the end I knew that one would have been a been a copout.  <br />This is an excellent book, not just for what it contains but because it makes one think about the origins of evil and responsibility for evil acts.	2000-12-19
US	52937546	R32UGN8BY4DSW7	0807823503	144131965	The Genius of Alexander the Great	Books	4	12	12	N	N	Good Study of Alexander	Mr. Hammond's study of the campaigns and generalship of Alexander is a insightful look at perhaps the greatest General in world history.  What is most interesting is that the book does not necessarily focus on the specific battles of Alexander, but on Alexander as a general.  In a very real way, his accomplishment as a general are greater than his conquest of Persia.<br />The book does discuss the battles of Alexander and describes what happened and why it happened.  Hammond does a good job of putting the reader in the head of Alexander.  <br />The book is well written and maps help explain what is going on.  For those who are interested in Alexander or how he accomplished so much so quickly, this book is a must.	2000-12-19
US	52937546	R390U5VBYOUL8I	0201328003	429148641	Hitler's Thirty Days to Power: January 1933	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Bebunking Myths	Mr. Turner's study on the Hitler's rise to power is excellent and maddening.  It is excellent as an historical treatise reviewing the facts that caused Hitler to seize power and it is maddening in that it did not have to happen.  In some circles there is a misbelief that Hitler's rise to the Chancellorship was inevitable.  Turner puts that myth to rest in describing how the personal ambition of Hindenburg, Papen and Schleicher, as well as their ineptitude had more to do with Hitler's rise than Hitler himself.  <br />The writing flows and keeps the readers attention riveted.  This is an important book and a must read for anyone interested to Nazi Germany.	2000-12-19
US	52937546	RS7DDF3AAAQ18	0804722773	564132599	The Odyssey of the Abraham Lincoln Brigade: Americans in the Spanish Civil War	Books	3	18	22	N	N	Interesting Individual Stories	Mr. Carroll's book about the saga of the Abraham Lincoln Brigade is an interesting insight into a part of American history that is lost. What is most interesting is his stories of the men and women who choose to fight and die in Spain and the reasons that they did. As a collection of personnel stories this book excels. These men and women went to Spain notwithstanding the antagonism of their country and the countries surrounding Spain and then returned to a suspicious nation that treated them as part of the red menace.<br />However, if one is expecting to get a history of the Spanish Civil War, or even an overview of the war, one will be disappointed.	2000-12-16
US	52937546	R31IIRHJNJ7IXD	1885119208	453997631	Caesar Against The Celts	Books	4	6	11	N	N	Fine Description of Roman Campaign	&amp;#65279;Mr. Jimenez book is a very good overview of Ceasar's campaign against the Celts.  He does a fine job describing the tactics and strategies that Ceasar utilized as well as the political environment, both in Gaul and in Rome,  in which Ceasar operated.    Where the book fails is in similar descriptions concerning the Celts.  While there are cursory descriptions concerning several of the Celtic tribes and their leaders, one does not get any feeling for who they were or what they believed in.<br />This a good book to obtain a understanding of the Roman perspective in the Celtic Campaign.  It is well written and the writing flows nicely.	2000-12-16
US	52937546	RPEVD47YCGXQO	1885119437	212085292	Warriors Of The Steppe: A Military History Of Central Asia, 500 B.c. To 1700 A.d.	Books	4	5	7	N	N	Excellent Overview	Hildinger's history of the Warriors of the Steppe makes one wonder why one of the various tribes did not conquer Europe.  It reminds one that Europe played a minor, or at least not as important a role, as one might of learned.<br />The book is straight forward and describes the military tactics that allowed the Steppe Warriors to beat all in their path.  What is most interesting is the constant flow of superior warriors for almost two thousand years and the inability of the rest of the world to defeat them.  The only thing that led to their demise was the invention of firearms which allowed defenders to obtain the firepower necessary to defeat them,<br />The book is not an extensive history on any of the tribes or nations, whether they be the Scythians, Sarmatians, Huns, Turks, Mongols, or Tatars.  In that sense the book is limited.  However, it is an excellent overview for one who wishes to get a start.	2000-12-10
US	52937546	R3JYO9CR8DL23R	0306806541	718801342	Hannibal	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Fine Book on History 's Greatest General	Dodge's history of the Second Punic War is a marvelous narrative of perhaps the greatest military campaign ever conceived or executed.  The only flaws were Hannibal's dependence on his native Carthagonians for reinforcements and material support and his underestimation of the political cohesiveness of the Roman Empire.<br />When one considers that Hannibal survived, and even flourished militarily, for more than fifteen years in the hostile territory of Roman Italy, only then can the accomplishments of Hannibal be understood.  Dodge artfully describes these accomplishments and puts them in their proper perspective.  His description of his abandonment by the Carthagonians, out of fear of his political strength, is compelling.<br />The book is well written and flows.  The author describes not only the military campaigns from a tactical perspective but also does a fine job explaining the strategic and political imperatives.  Dodge describes Hannibal's crossing of the Alps and his campaign in Italy as primarily a political war whose intent was to divide the states that made up the Roman Empire.  As such, Dodge shows a deep understanding of the nature of the War and what led to the ultimate Roman victory.<br />For anyone wishing to understand the rise of the Roman Empire or the accomplishments of Hannibal this is a must read.	2000-12-10
US	52937546	RQAI43E9SS2LJ	0700606505	104610742	The Confederacy's Last Hurrah: Spring Hill, Franklin, and Nashville (Modern War Studies)	Books	5	10	13	N	N	Marvelous Military and Human History	Sword's book is a marvelous written chronicle of the destruction of Hood's Confederate Army of Tennessee.  The authors ability to weave the horror of war into a detailed military history is especially enticing. This is combined with a keen analysis of the triumphs and failures of the leaders on both sides of the conflict.<br />The Last Hurrah is the story of the Confederacy's last and probably best chance to reclaim Tennessee and Kentucky for the South and to possibly bring the war once more to Northern soil.  But more than that it is also the story of poor leadership on behalf of the Confederate General Hood and the political pressure on Union General Thomas to bring the battle to Hood.  Sword, chronicles the planning of Hood's offensive and his miscalculation that the supplies to feed, cloth and arm his army could be obtained through a rail link and from the land that they were invading.  This mistake perhaps doomed the campaign given that this was a winter campaign and the Confederate soldiers were often without shoes and blankets.<br />The best part of the book focuses on the battles of Franklin and Nashville.  While Sword does a fine job in detailing the battles themselves as well as the strategy and tactics utilized by the respective Generals, he shines in discussing the human effects of the battles.  The slaughter at Franklin and the Confederate charge against a heavily defended Union line, without the benefit of significant  supporting artillery, makes one shudder.  In reading the depiction of the casualties the horror of the war and the human costs were brought home.  <br />Where Sword also excels is in his critique of the leaders of both sides.  Sword obviously is a fan of General George Thomas.  On the other hand he is very critical of General Scofield's conduct at Spring Hill and latter at Franklin and Nashville.  Scofield's generalship would have led to the destruction of his army during the retreat from Spring Hill to Franklin but for the ineptitude ofhis Confederate counterparts.  His conduct at Nashville, and his failure to commit his troops, probably allowed what remained of the Confederate Army to escape.<br />Sword's worse criticism was justly saved for Hood.  The criticism was well deserved, especially for the decision to make the frontal assault at Franklin and again at Nashville.  His poor generalship and inability to take the advise of Nathan Bedford Forrest led to the loss of almost two thirds of his army.<br />All in all this is a fine book and a must read.	2000-12-07
US	52937546	R381JCDI1TIREQ	0856133051	385802779	Spanish Civil War	Books	5	5	8	N	N	Fine History	Beevor's history of the Spanish Civil War is a wonderful read.  It deals well with the events that led up to the war as well as the social and cultural causes.  The only limitation is when the author discusses the battles.  The book could have used more maps to describe the battles ebbs and flows.  <br />I espically liked the discussion of the role that Germany and Italy played in the Nationalists victory and the internal disputes that helped dome the Republicans.	2000-12-04
US	52937546	R13OH8JKOAAHGK	0801415896	736082738	The War Against Proslavery Religion: Abolitionism and Northern Churches, 1830-1865	Books	3	7	7	N	N	Straight Forward History, Without any Frils	This is straight forward history of the conflicts between the northern and southern churches leading up to the Civil War.  What is most interesting is that it destroys the popular myth that the churches were in the vanguard of the abolition movement.  While there were some churches that were, they were the off shuts of the more established churches.  It appears that the established churches were more interested in staying neutral and not creating conflict with their sourthern breathern then in fighting the evil of slavery.<br />The book has written in a scholarly manner and is very dry reading.  But, for anyone who wishes to understand the role that the churches played, or didn't play, in the abolition movement the book is a good read.	2000-12-04
US	52937546	R3169KUQOICO28	0670886939	928300055	Hitler's Pope: The Secret History of Pius XII	Books	5	29	47	N	N	Disturbing Book about an Important Subject	Cornwell's book deserved to be written and read by all. It is a well documented and very readable book about a very controversial subject.<br />While it is easy to look at the book as anti-Catholic, it is not.  It is a history of individuals, who happenend to be the leaders of a church, who believed that the health and strength of the church was more important than the lives of nonbelievers.  While this can be understandable conduct for most, it is difficult to understand for those who are supposed to be the Vicar of Christ on Earth.  If the book was limited to this subject, it would have been worthy enough.  However, the strident position of the church that it had done nothing wrong is perhaps of more interest.<br />That the church defended the treaty with the Third Reich that prohibited the Catholic Center party from continuing in the political field is undefendable.  It removed the last political barrier to Hitler's rise to power and facilitated the Nazi siezure of power.<br />Cormwell chronicles the above and deals deftly with the subject.  An important read for those who wish to learn the history of the rise of Hitler and the limitation of established religions response to evil.	2000-12-04
US	52937546	R2SDZH0QB1FAQ8	067974830X	23862310	Nathan Bedford Forrest: A Biography	Books	4	49	52	N	N	Interesting book about interesting figure	Nathan Bedford Forrest is perhaps the most intersting figure of the Civil War.  He was a failed business man, until he became a slave trader, who entered the war as a private and quickly rose to the rank of general.  His military campaigns are legend as well as the ruthlessness of thier execution.  He was the first Grand Wizard of the Klan as well as an individual who in his later life developed a more enlightened attitude toward blacks.<br />Hurst presents all of the above in a very descriptive manner.  What is truly complementary to Hurst is that he presents a fairly evenhanded story of Forrest.  His discussion of the Fort Pillow Massacre, in which Forrest's command killed hundreds of surrendering black Union soldiers, is the best example of Hurst's approach.  While not attempting to excuse Forrest's conduct in any way, Hurst does put the massacre into the proper historical prespective.<br />The main fault of the book is its lack of maps.  Many of Forrest's campaigns are complicated and difficult to understand because of the almost complete absence of maps.  There are only 2 battle maps.<br />All in all it is a fine book.	2000-11-27
US	52937546	R25YXLOIDXYME7	0807820423	211418628	Pea Ridge: Civil War Campaign in the West (Civil War America)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Wonderful Read	Shea and Hess do a wonderful job bringing to the reader the history of the understudied Trans-Mississippi campaign in the Civil War.  The writing is fluid, conveys not only the historical picture but also the human picture.  Furthermore, the use of numerous maps helps place the narrative in the proper perspective.<br />The writers excell at describing the leaders of both sides and the conflicts, bot internal and external, that they had to deal with.  I was most interested in the ethnic divisions, between the Germman and native born Federals, and how that effected the cohesivness of the Union Army.  General Curtis, who led the Union Army, was an amazing commander and performed feats that have unfortunately been too long ignored.  From the initial decision to enter into a winter camapign, to the sucessful changing of fronts to confront the Confederate Army and finally to his masterful control of the battle, Curtis ranks with the great generals of the Civil War.	2000-11-17
US	52937546	R2Z26IKFGF99H2	0679768122	381866424	Albert Speer: His Battle with Truth	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Intriguing Insight	Sereny's insightful look into the life of Albert Speer raises more issues than she puts to rest. Given the subject matter, that might be the ultimate compliment. While when I picked up the book I was hoping for a complete admission of Speer's guilt for the Holucaust and for the other crimes of the Nazis, after finishing the book I realized that such insight was impossible. Moreover, the lack of a complete admission was understandable.<br />Given Speer's position within Hitler's heirarchy, his contribution to the war effort, his role in the entrenched slavery that was part of the Third Reich and his intelligence he could have hardly not known about the crimes that he atleast enabled. However, for a person to hold himself responsible for these monsterous crimes and to still go on in any ordinary way would be next to impossible. The true are mutually exclusive. This is espically true given the fact that Speer was no monster. That he was not evil man, but only participated in evil acts.<br />Sereny go along way toward explaining how Speer was able to live with accepting guilt for the Holoucaust but still not acknowleging that he knew about the Holocaust during his tenure with Hitler. While this is a subtle distinction it was one necessary for Speer's survival.<br />There is no attempt to white wash Speer's role in supporting Hitler. Sereny is no apologist for Speer, but when necessary a harsh critic. The fact that Speer enabled Hitler to continue his campaign against humanity, and for so long shut his eyes to Nazi crimes, cannot be excused. However, since Speer was no Himmler or Gobbels, it can be understood.<br />What is the center of the book and Speer's motavation is his relationship with Hitler. Sereny presents a Hitler, through Speer, that is kind to his close associates, a gentlement to the women around him, and who enjoyed being around their children. A Hitler that loved art and was able to converse with Speer for hours about architecture. That this doesn't jivewith the author of the Final Solution is of course obvious. But this is the Hitler that Speer formed a close bond with. <br />That Speer was unwilling to equate the Hitler that he knew with the Hitler of history becomes understandable when put into the above context. However, understanding does not equate with lack of responsibility.<br />The book is well written and researched. Sereny writes nonfiction as if it was a novel and holds your attention throughout most of the book. This is an essential read for anyone who wishes to go beyond the surface of the Third Reich.	2000-10-31
US	52937546	R34H95KOL8NL85	0670870951	436220225	Stalingrad: The Fateful Siege, 1942-1943	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Engrossing Human Story	When I began the book I wasn't sure what to expect, other than the history of one of the pivotal battles of the 20th Century.  To say that I was pleasantly suprised is an understatement.  Beevor's book is much more than just a history of the Battle of Stalingrad.  Rather it is a history of the individuals who participated in the battle and its human cost.<br />Given the history of the Russian Army from the outbreak of the was up to Stalingrad, one would not have expected that the Soviets would have been able to made the stand that they did.  Beevor explains the process that led to the transformation of the Russian Army, blemishes and all.  He does the same for the German Army.<br />Stalingrad is ultimately a human drama, since notwithstanding the generals and commanders it was the Russian soldier that defeated the German soldier.  That is the strength of the book and makes it a very good read.	2000-10-12
US	52937546	R1SGQQW65OA1II	0394710355	168192134	Into That Darkness: An Examination of Conscience	Books	5	15	16	N	N	A Scary and Enlightening Book	When I first picked up Sereny's book I expected to read the biography of a true monster.  After all, Stangl had been the commander of the Treblinka death camp and had been responsible for the murder of almost a million human beings.  Obviously a &quot;normal&quot; person could not have completed this task.<br />What is scary about the book is that Stengl is no monster, at least in the traditional sence.  It was not that he had no sence of right or wrong, or that he was a sadist, or that he was oblivious to his task.  Rather, he was an individual who had the ability to not look to far into himself and to let others make his moral decisions.<br />Sereny does an amazing job giving us an insight into Stangl.  She also attempts to put his conduct into a wider spectrum.  For instance, Stangl uses the treaty between the Vatican and Hitler as an excuse to justify his actions.  While it is just an excuse, Sereny rightfully questions the Vatican action and the ability of the Church to stop actions that they choose to, but not the Final Solution.  <br />Stangl's evolution from a nonpolitical individual to the head of the Treblinka death camp is the main focus of the book.  She does an amazing job tracing his gradual journey from a participant in the euthanasia program to Treblinka.  What is insightful is that Stangl knew that what he was doing was monsterous.  The proof is the lengths that he went to ensure that his wife would not find out.  The final interview with Stangl, where he comes close to admitting his crimes, and his sudden death 20 hours later, is perphaps his final determination that what he did to nearly a million people was a monsterous act which was impossible to justify.<br />Sereny's book is a must for all of us who desire to learn about the sources of evil.  But if you are looking for a clear and clean answer you will be disappointed. While Stangl's acts were undoubtedly evil, what is scary aobut the book is that given different circumstances Stangl would have been a faceless bureaucrat.	2000-10-09
US	52937546	R3J8M0HHXTP6H3	0938289462	970985083	General John Buford	Books	4	11	12	N	N	Well Written and Insighful	Longacre succeeds in bringing to life the exploits of a &quot;common&quot; soldier.  Buford did not have the press of Jackson, Longstreet or Hancock, but the book makes clear that he was the glue that held the Union army togetheir.<br />The strength of the book is its simplicity and easy flow.  It takes you through Buford's military life and in so doing describes the evolution of the United States and Union armies.  Longacre does a fine job describing the deficiencies of the Union and where appropriate Buford. <br />The only limitation on the book is its lack of depth.  The most likely cause is the lack of historical detail on Buford's life.  But Longacre did the best with what he got.	2000-10-03
US	52937546	R24W49JDBQRKZN	0253210585	783785154	Winfield Scott Hancock: A Soldier’s Life	Books	3	17	27	N	N	Bias skews biography	To read this biography one would belive that Winfield Scott Hancock was a  nearly perfect general, man and politician who whose only fault was relying  on others who let him down.  In every instance where Hancock could be  subject to criticism Jordan simply pays lip service to Hanconck's mistakes  and acts like an apologist.  Whether it be in allowing Longstreet to  outflank his lines at the Wilderness or in overreacting during his first  Indian campaign and helping start an Indian war, Jordan does not deal with  legitimate criticisms of Hancock.  <br />What was the most troubling was  Jordan's treatment of Hancock and Reconstruction.  Under the guise of  state's rights and noninterference in local affairs, Hancock almost single  handedly squelched Reconstruction in Lousiana and Texas.  Jordan  offhandedly dismisses the effect that Hancock's actions had on the former  slaves.  What ones ferrets out of the discussion is that Hancock, who was  no abolitionist, simply did not care about the effect that his policies had  on former slaves.  They were not on his radar screen.  As a individual in  the 1860's that might be understood, but as a General with the obligation  of carrying out the mandates of Reconstruction, it is not.  Instead of  discussing these issues Jordan simply praises Hancock for standing up for  his principals of noninterference.<br />Jordan's failure to do this is  espically troublesome because the book is written well and flows  wonderfully.  You get a good idea of who Hancock was and the environment in  which he operated.  The best parts of the book are the Gerrysburg campaign  and Hancock's run for the Presidency.  Unfortunately, because the book is  so biased towards Hancock you get the feeling that Jordan is not telling  the full story.<br />Hancock was obviously a great man, but great men are not  perfect.	2000-09-16
US	52937546	RHL0E9WHG0XNG	047135063X	664566972	Grant Wins the War: Decision at Vicksburg	Books	4	4	9	N	N	Good Solid History	Arnold's book is a good solid history of the Vicksburg Campaign.  His  descriptions of the battles and the strategic and tactical issues facing  Grant and the Confederacy gives one an understanding of what problems faced  the parties and how they were resolved.  His description of the battle of  Champion Hill is the best part of the book, as one can feel the bravery of  the soldiers involved.<br />The books limitation is Arnold's almost  infatuation with Grant and the need to make Vicksburg the pivotal battle of  the war.  While the strategy that Grant utilized was daring and unorthodox  that does not substantiate the comparison with Napoleon.  There is nothing  in the campaign that demonstrates that Grant's tactics were Napoleonic in  nature.<br />Whether Vicksburg was the pivotal battle of the civil was may be  true.  However, Arnold did not make the case that it was.  A Union loss at  Gettysburg surley would have had a dramatic impact on the Unions will to  continue the war.  While the issue of which battle was more important was  not important to the Vicksburg story, once the issue was raised Arnold  should have at least spent more than a moment discussing Gettysburg.  <br />As  a story about the Vicksburg Campaign, the book excells.	2000-08-30
US	52937546	R26NTYR4A71H11	0684845695	505645608	The Gettysburg Campaign: A Study in Command	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Excellent Study	This book is an excellent study of the oppossing sides of the Gettysburg  Campaign.  What is most remarkable is the fact that the author goes a  marvelous job of treating each side fairly.  Most books about the Civil War  definatley take a pro Lee or pro Union stance.  Coddington does a good job  of treating everyone evenly, giving praise where it is due.<br />Coddington's  book is also a good narrative history of the events.  Even though I knew  the outcome of the battle the book at times read like fiction.  This is  espically true when dealing with the third day.<br />The only objection that I  have is Coddington's failure to objectively review the purported reasons  for the battle and the campaign in the first instance.  He takes Lee's  rationalizations at face value and portrays the campaign as a giant  foraging enterprise.  Furthermore, given the strong defensive positions  occupied by Meade, there is little discussion of whether Lee should have  accepted battle on July 2.  While these oversights are not insignificant,  the book is very worthwhile.	2000-08-28
US	52937546	R3Z38SDDIFQQS	0671892878	863732091	General James Longstreet: The Confederacy's Most Controversial Soldier	Books	4	12	14	N	N	Good Straight Forward History	This is a good straight forward history of General Longstreet and the to a  lesser extent the Civil War.  The book takes a very favorable view of  Longstreet, but at times is rough on him when it is deserved.  He does the  same with the other Confederate Generals, including Lee and Jackson.<br />Wert  does a fine job of describing the thinking of Longstreet and also of the  other generals.  He also fully discusses the strategic decisions that faced  the South and the reasons that decisions were made.  All, in all, it is a  worthwhile read on an interesting subject.	2000-08-06
US	52937546	R1UKDO01V5DFLY	0767901266	528046712	A Hope in the Unseen: An American Odyssey from the Inner City to the Ivy League	Books	5	1	1	N	N	One of the Best Books I Ever Read	This is an amazing story of a truly remarkable young man. Cedric's journey  is remarkable not just for the journey itself, but for the way in which he  made it.  The move from the inner city to the Ivy League is one that most  of us cannot fathom.  But Cedric made it, and made it with a dignity and  sence of humor.  That does not mean that there were not setbacks or the  Cedric did not react with anger or other human emotions to his experiences,  but that is also part of the story.<br />While this is a story about race in  America, it is also so much more.  It is alo about class and educational  opprotunity.  Suskind makes his points very well but without hitting anyone  over the head.  Cedric is the &quot;poster boy&quot; for making education  equally avaliable to everyone.  The sad part of the story is the certainty  that there are other Cedrics out there, some who are discussed by Suskind,  who did not make it to the Ivy League or any college.  <br />When the book end  I was disappointed because I wanted to know how Cedric's story ended.   Suskind brought the story to life.  I only hope that there is a sequal.	2000-08-05
US	52937546	R98D6H31BOKTE	0253208637	828154150	The Iron Brigade: A Military History (Great Lakes Connections: The Civil War)	Books	5	4	6	N	N	Amazing Human Story	What is amazing about the history of the Iron Brigade is the courage  repeatedly shown by ordinary Americans on numerous occassions.  The Iron  Brigade suffered the highest rate of casualties of any Union brigade.   Their heroism at numerous battles, including Antietam and Gettysburg,  should be remembered by all.<br />Nolan does a masteful job of bringing the  Brigade to life.  After the chapter on Gettysburg one could feel the  anguish and pride that was felt by the Brigade as a result of their stand  against overwhelming odds.  This book is not only a fine military history,  but a human one as well.	2000-08-05
US	52937546	R3TZYH3BZVQ4C1	0807819565	5632074	Lee Considered: General Robert E. Lee and Civil War History (Civil War America)	Books	3	5	7	N	N	Good Start on an Interesting Subject	Nolan's book is a a good start on a very interesting subject.  It is a  fine essay that forces one to look at Lee as a fallable human being rather  than a legendary leader. The best compliment that one can give to Nolan,  and to any author, is that it made me intersted in the subject and caused  me to read more about Lee's generalship.	2000-08-05
US	52937546	R1ZA5ACQK4K2EG	0807844225	540567140	Gabriel's Rebellion: The Virginia Slave Conspiracies of 1800 and 1802	Books	5	10	11	N	N	A Must Read!	Egerton does a masterful job of placing slavery within the broad context  of revolutinary America.  Gabriel's rebellion was born not only out of the  opression of slavery but out of the political theory embodied in the  Declaration of Independence and the conflict betweent the Republicans and  Federalists to determine whether those principals would be part of American  life.  To a large extent, Gabriel was doomed because he believed that the  political rhetoric of the Republicans extended beyond men with white  skin.<br />Most intersting is the discussion of the very real attempts to end  slavery in Virginia after the rebellion.  There is some real irony that  Jefferson - the father of American democracy - was the one that killed any  hope for the peaceful end of slavery.  In the end, Egerton is correct that  once Virginians decided to continue their peculiar institution, that  opressive control of slaves rather than the principals that the revolution  was fought over had to be the controlling philosophy.<br />This is a must read  for anyone who wishes to understand  how slavery fit within the context of  American political thought.	2000-08-05
US	52937546	R3UZPFI2H2V2TI	0945612672	304061288	He Shall Go Out Free: The Lives of Denmark Vesey	Books	4	6	7	N	N	Excellent, Interesting and Engrossing	This is an excellent history of slavery in South Carolina with a focus on  the unsucessful revolt led by Denmark Vesey.  The strength of the book is  the history of Vesey and the evolutionary process that leds him to his  death.<br />What is most intriguing was the discussion of Vesey's rejection of  the New Testement as a guide for his actions and his use of the Old  Testement as a guide.  The book deals well with the issue of the effect of  the masters use of the Christian faith as a justification for slavery on  the slaves and freemens spiritual life.<br />The only flaw in the book was the  authors obvious admiration for Vesey.  Not that such admiration is not  deserved, but it tended to color some of the more difficult issues in  Vesey's revolt.  For instance, a major controversey has arisen concerning  whether as part of the revolt the whites of Charleston were to be  massacred.  The author does not deal with the claim other than to dismiss  is as illogical.  However, this dismissal is insufficent given the hate and  feellings for revenge that the slaves must have felt toward their  masters.<br />All in all, this is a very readable history important events in  American history.  A good read.	2000-07-08
US	52937546	RXNB8EC8HHCRT	0395759242	966326914	King Leopold's Ghost: A Story of Greed, Terror, and Heroism in Colonial Africa	Books	4	9	10	N	N	Very Ineresting  and Thought Provoking	Hochschild book is an intersting and thought provoking history of one of the darker sides of western history.  It does a brillant job of bringing the horror of Leopold's Congo to the reader.<br />The only criticism is that  the book spends too much time on the European and American protest  movements.  Hochschild readily concedes that the absence of a personal  historical record concerning the genocide is a limitation.  So perhaphs,  the criticism is unfair.  <br />Where the book excells is in painting a  portrait of Leopold.  He truly deserves to be included in the same catagory  as the 20th centuries most evil characters.  Leopold was responsible for  the murder of over 10 million people and Hochschild book finally gives him  the publicity that he deserves.	2000-02-19
US	52937546	R28R8C8RSMPTA9	0679724672	161039390	The Black Jacobins: Toussaint L'Ouverture and the San Domingo Revolution	Books	4	38	49	N	N	Informative, but slanted	The Black Jacobins is an informative and compelling story of the Haitian Revolution.  While Mr. James takes the reader through the many events that made up the revolution his obvious Marxist perspective and desire to  promote a class theory of the revolution is a major limitation.  For  instance, in order to put forth a Marxist class theory for the revolution  Mr. James is forced to underplay other more important factors -such as  race.<br />All in all this book is a positive read for anyone who is intersted  in a part of history that is too little known.  The life and times of  Toussiant L'Ouverture and the Haitian Revolution is a must read for anyone  who wants to understand the current state of affairs in Haiti as well as a  very dark side of French, British and American relations with the country.   Given the barbaric conditions the slaves were subjected to and devestation  that was visited on the country in order to defeat the invading French  troops it is easier to understand the present state of affairs in Haiti.	2000-01-07
US	52937546	R2THD167E8GYE9	067944288X	786113048	Denmark Vesey: The Buried History of America's Largest Slave Rebellion and the Man Who Led It	Books	3	13	14	N	N	Interesting, but left wanting	Robertson's book is a very good introduction to a very interesting subject.  However, it lacked detail and insight into a number of critical issues.<br />The focus of the book is on the 1822 aborted revolt of slaves  around Charleston, South Carolina.  Robertson does a fine job discussing  the general slave conditions and their interactions with their oppressors.   Particularly, his discussion of the &quot;Magnolia and Sable Curtain&quot;  is absorbing. It is when the details of the rebellion are discussed that  the book slips.<br />In fact there are very little details.  This may be due  to a lack of information in that the slave owners went to great lengths to  destroy the record.  Many important and interesting questions are left  unanswered, including how the slaves could have got so close to sucesses.   <br />The planned outcome of the revolt would have been the destruction of  Charleston, the murder of all whites, including white children, in the  City, and the sailing of the slaves to Africa.  What is not even discussed  is what would have been the effect of the sucess of the revolt on the  abolition movement and the future of slavery.  One could not reasonably  contend that the killing of thousands of whites by slaves and the burning  of an entire city would not have has a dramatic impact on the history of  America.<br />All in all, the book was a worthwhile read.  It was a good  primer on the subject.	1999-11-23
US	52937546	R2M4KGRAXNU0D4	067944288X	786113048	Denmark Vesey: The Buried History of America's Largest Slave Rebellion and the Man Who Led It	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Interesting, but left wanting	The subject of Denmark Vesey and his slave revolt is interesting and required reading for anyone who desires to know what pre Civil War America was like.  The book does an excellant job generally describing the  interaction of slaves and masters in 1820's South Carolina; espically in  how slaves dealt with their opression.  However, the book falls short in  the specifics of planning and failure of Vesey's revolt.  This could be  because the information is scanty, but the book left me with the feeling  that there was more. <br />Vesey organized a revolt that if sucessful would  have devestated Charleston, including the massacre of the white population.   How Vesey came so close to suceeding is not adequately discussed.  It is  left to generalizations.<br />On the whole the book is very worthwhile  reading.  However, it is only a start and suceeds in wetting ones appetite.	1999-11-23
