US	52931861	R2HR1JPY2F37XU	0439784549	162568542	Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince (Book 6)	Books	5	6	11	N	Y	Sensational! Wonderful!! And the audio is great, too!!	So many reviews here, so no use going into details, but this is Rowling's best installment yet! Sure, I miss the whimsy and the fun of the first book - but that was with a 10 year old Harry.<br /><br />Harry is now 16, close to 17, and this book is more appropriately tuned to his age. As all the Potter books have done, being more maturely written with mature themes as Harry himself matures and grows.<br /><br />I think Rowling is a master of writing, and esp. of plotting and story-telling. The tapestry of characters, events, and history that she is putting together is positively brilliant.<br /><br />I can't wait to see how she ties everything together in book 7! Get to writing, JK! We want it next summer!!!<br /><br />And now, for the review of the CDs:<br /><br />Jim Dale does another near-perfect reading of a Harry Potter book. As in all the other recordings, Dale hits everything spot on, is clear in enunciation (except just a coupld spots) and brings the text to life.<br /><br />My only complaint is his breathy, whiny Hermione.<br /><br />But EVERYTHING else is spot-on in all his recordings.	2005-07-28
US	52931861	R2FCQ5PE9HSZQR	0060953748	154462447	River Town: Two Years on the Yangtze	Books	4	7	9	N	N	I loved it! And learned a lot about China	Hessler's upfront honesty about what he liked and didn't like about Chinese culture as he experienced it makes this is a much truer account of China (or any foreign land) than a lot of &quot;travel&quot; and memoir books.<br />Hessler is not only a good writer, who writes compelling and lurid prose, but he is an honest story-teller, especially in telling his own story.  What makes this book an especially good read for me is that he doesn't leave out the negative or the positive. This is a truly subjective account of HIS experiences in China as a teacher, as a Peace Corps volunteer, as a young man, and as an American.  Hessler doesn't try to show a &quot;real&quot; China objectively - he knows well enough that it doesn't exist. All he can tell us is China as he experienced it, and that's exactly what he gives us, warts and all.  I am especially grateful that he never shied away from commenting on the negative and the positive aspects of the communist China government and ideology as it affects the nation and the people, and also showing us how some of the Chinese embrace it totally, and others are not so keen on it and desire something more.<br />And because of that honesty, I can feel that I am there riding along with him.  Thankfully, he took copious notes and kept a journal while he was in China - the insertions of his English student's writings are a wonderful addition to the book, and through them, we all get some of the story of the students he taught, and also a better insight into Chinese thought processes than we could ever know purely through description.<br />Hessler knows the importance of telling one's story, and letting other people tell their own story, and I enjoyed every moment of this book and was saddened when he left China, for I knew that was the end of the book.<br />I will look for more of Hessler's work.  This book hooked me.	2004-02-13
US	52931861	R2J9B9XB4GSNNF	0142001740	378345448	The Secret Life of Bees	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Sweet, but not saccharine - beautiful prose	A book that I found myself easily sliding into and becoming one with the story. Kidd's writing style and usage of words is exceptionally beautiful.  The characters were believable and true, the plot moved along in a sensible way - never was I jarred by the thought &quot;that doesn't make sense&quot; or &quot;that's implausible.&quot;<br />The only disappointment was when the book ended, because I wasn't ready to leave that story and give up that writing.<br />I was gripped by the story of the young girl who finds her authority within herself, with the help of loving adults who give her room to expand, and never try to shunt her into anything other than what she already is. I would think this would appeal, certainly, to teen girls, but also adults, male and female, who are searching and struggling for their own sense of self-worth, authority, and direction in life. This book will also appeal to anyone who just likes to read beautifully written books.<br />Kidd is a true master of storytelling and word usage. Read this, and behold something beautiful.	2004-02-13
US	52931861	R325YVU613D1RO	0714835420	29239227	The 20th Century Art Book	Books	5	26	27	N	N	Excellent resource for 20th century art!	Arranged alphabetically, which is very helpful. Sadly, it generally has but only one painting or photo for each artist, but then the intent here is to cover as many artists as possible, not to be comprehensive on any one artist, and it's quite heavy as it is already.<br />The 20th Century Art Book is an EXCELLENT reference guide. How many times reading the Arts section of a newspaper, or an interview with an artist, etc., does one hear a reference to another artist and one has no idea who that person is? With this book, you can quickly check it out!<br />I also very much appreciate the cross-linking - since it's alphabetical, and not by style or school of thought, the editors have listed on each artists's page other artists who are similar or somehow related to that one. I have found the cross-referencing to be very helpful many times.<br />Unless one already has an encyclopedic knowledge of art of the 20th century, this is a PERFECT book for one's art library as a reference tool. And it's also a GREAT jumping off point for exploring artists: page through randomly, come across something interesting, then go and look for a book of that artist, or head to the museum &quot;in search of.&quot;<br />I treasure my copy, and would not ever wish to part with it.	2004-02-12
US	52931861	R2ELF30AE7G28A	0714829846	378415299	The Art Book	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Excellent overview of centuries of art	Arranged alphabetically, which is very helpful.  Sadly, it has generally but only one painting or photo for each artist, but then the intent here is to cover as many artists as possible, not to be comprehensive on any one artist, and it's quite heavy as it is already.<br />The Art Book is an EXCELLENT reference guide.  How many times reading the Arts section of a newspaper, or an interview with an artist, etc., does one hear a reference to another artist and one has no idea who that person is? With this book, you can quickly check it out!<br />I also very much appreciate the cross-linking - since it's alphabetical, and not by style or school of thought, the editors have listed on each artists's page other artists who are similar or somehow related to that one.  I have found the cross-referencing to be very helpful many times.<br />Unless one already has an encyclopedic knowledge of 500 years of art, this is a PERFECT book for one's art library as a reference tool. And it's also a GREAT jumping off point for exploring artists: page through randomly, come across something interesting, then go and look for a book of that artist, or head to the museum \\"in search of.\\"<br />I treasure my copy, and would not ever wish to part with it.	2004-02-11
US	52931861	R22RB1AEN6ZR5B	0375759778	530438268	Prague: A Novel	Books	3	3	4	N	N	Beautiful prose, not so interesting story or characters	I believed the blurbs on the book that this was, finally, writing akin to the lost generation of ex-pats after WWI.  I was sucked in by the hype, hoping for a book that would speak to my generation, and perhaps start a New Thing.<br />But I hope it does not, for if it does, the new thing is only that of self-centered &quot;Hey look at me!&quot; gee-whiz-bangery.<br />I will say, the prose in the book is beautiful. Phillipis is an artist with words.  But the &quot;Hey look at me cleverness!&quot; of his writing style wears thin quickly, and one soon realizes that excessive detail and flowery prose is all he's working on, and the book eventually becomes tedious.<br />Unlike that initial set of ex-pats, Phillips is unconcerned with story, and more concerned with making sure we all know how clever he is with word usage.<br />He should have taken the attention to detail and florid prose of the first 20 pages, and smeared it out over the whole thing to make the cleverness part less dense. Then he would have had more room to develop characters that we would care about, situations that are interesting, and a story that is compelling.  Sadly, as much as I really, really wanted to enjoy this book and be excited by it, I enjoyed it only minimally, and am not excited enough about it to recommend it to anyone. It wasn't a waste of my time, but I would rather have read something else.<br />perhaps Phillips will lose his self-absorption, and turn out better books later. He appears that he might have the skill to do so.	2004-02-11
US	52931861	R2Z916JDCYJCNW	0060392452	194848581	Stupid White Men ...And Other Sorry Excuses for the State of the Nation!	Books	4	5	8	N	Y	Very funny, and also quite accurate	Michael Moore is great at showing the stupidity and the lies that come through the media and from the conservative right, and even sometimes from the democrat left.  I have long appreciated Moore's work for social jsutice and worker's rights and intelligent discourse and getting us to change our ways to take care of the planet, and to take care of each other.<br />This book falls short in a few places when his soapbox seems to large, and every now and again his statements are made with such a wide sweep, and not backed up with references, that I am left wondering if that's him being hyperbolic, rhetorical, or if he really thinks that his statement is true.<br />Overall, though, another important work from one of the few ordinary guys working hard to expose the truth, and expose the lies, of the republican right, of corporate america, and of others in the public sphere of discourse who put their own greed in front of the good of the people.	2002-08-31
US	52931861	RXVZHEHCSOBWP	0452278384	254468077	The Carbohydrate Addict's Lifespan Program: Personalized Plan for bcmg Slim Fit Healthy your 40s 50s 60s Beyond	Books	5	35	38	N	Y	Has helped me TREMENDOUSLY!	Don't think of it as a diet - it's a whole new approach to eating and nutrition.<br />Now that we know - or should know - that the so-called low fat diets have a tendancy to actually make people fatter (but not always - depends on your body!), the low-carb diet is finally, after 25 or more years, being taken seriously.  A friend of mine tried many diets over the years, and this is the one that has allowed her to lose weight, and keep it off, and reduce her desire to eat. I went on this diet, have lost 25 pounds in 6 months, and now I, too, have no desire to snack during the day like I used to, I eat less at meals, and I feel just as full as I ever did before.  I feel better, too.  I grew up with a regular Wisconsin-style diet of starch, starch, starch, and sugar sugar sugar (lots of bread, potatoes, root vegetables, and my mother was an incredible baker, so lots of cinnamon rolls, cookies, cakes, pies...yum!, but not good for me) - and even though I ate that diet for 36 years, I have just about no desire to go back to it - not a \\"gosh, it made me heavy, so I don't want it\\" desire, but my body *itself* doesn't want all that stuff any more, and I don't even think of eating that stuff any more, except as an occasional treat.<br />IGNORE ANY REVIEWS you read here that give this diet low scores. The truth of the matter is, this diet is not for everyone. With diabetes in my family, and doing some serious thought about my past food habits and reactions after eating, etc., I gave it a try since it seemed to fit what was happening to me.  Thankfully, I was right, and this is for me. There's always a chance that your body IS NOT the type that will deal with diet, and you might very well NOT get any weight loss from this. If so, chalk it up to God's infinite variety of body types, and don't blame the diet. The people who rate this low, for the most part, are people for whom this diet did not work (or they didn't do it properly). And remember, don't think of it as a diet - it's a whole new approach to eating and nutrition.<br />For me, and for many others, this is the new approach to thinking about nutrition and how we feed our bodies we needed.a whole new approach to eating and nutrition.<br />For me, and for many others, this is the new approach to thinking about nutrition and how we feed our bodies we needed.	2002-08-31
US	52931861	R3MO1YOSQZWQKH	0812930991	150767402	Blinded by the Right: The Conscience of an Ex-Conservative	Books	5	10	15	N	Y	Finally, some truth about the tactics of the RightWing	My only complaint with this book is that Brock, turning against the right wing nutzoids that are in charge of the republican aprty and republican commentaries, uses some of the same tactics he used to use: name calling, and vicious verbage.<br />Other than that, this is an important work because Brock is the first right wing nut to switch sides to the side of sensibility and compassion and justice, and exposes all the miserable and hurtful tactics that the right wing nuts, and the conservative Christians in particular, use to destroy liberals, like the right wing nut 8 year campaign to destroy Clinton and fabricate evidence.  Every one should be reading this book to find out just how low and just how illegal the right wing will go to try to destroy someone they don't like. Tactics like made up evidence, made up statistics, even made up claims that the person has to try to defend. They paid off people to give false witness, they found others filled with hate to offer false witness.  Just plain bad stuff in the right wing, and Brock, who was a major part of that side for many years, shows it all.<br />Read this, and then sstop voting for the right wings, and leave your right wing church if you're a pat robertson/jerry falwell kind of person.<br />Thank you, David Brock, for your courage to put this thing out.	2002-08-24
US	52931861	R3S537XDPOYDC1	0714839841	612893177	The House Book	Books	5	12	12	N	Y	Really fun to look through	A great collection of 500 houses, from huts in thirdworld countries, to historic castles and palaces and estates and chateaus, to modern architecture, done by 500 architects.  This is a visuals-only book. It does not have much information about the buildings or the architects, but it makes up for the lack of text with the large, vibrant photos, which is what the book is all about. This book is a trade-off - it has more homes and architects than any other book out there, but it also has very little information, since with 500 architects, that only leaves one per page.<br />Fun to look through and mentally design the dream estate of my retirement years...and to learn about a lot of architects I'd never heard of.	2002-02-12
US	52931861	R1QXC4CUSGZYYH	1575420244	584232018	How Rude!: The Teenagers' Guide to Good Manners, Proper Behavior, and Not Grossing People Out	Books	5	28	28	N	Y	Great! Perfectly enjoyable for teens!	Wonderful!  Very witty, quite clever, and presents etiquette in a non-threatening, humorous, but also very honest way.  While some might challenge the author for saying things like \\"good manners will get other people to more willingly give you things\\", the truth of the matter is that it *is* true, and youth wil be more prone to listen to the advice if they realize that they will benefit materially (the restaurant manager will be willing to let you stay at the table a little longer and provide better service), not just abstractly (you'll earn the admiration of the elderly people in your church).  The appreciation for the abstract awards will come when they hit college, assuming they can be convinced to follow etiquette before they go to college.<br />If only all teens (and adults) would read this and relaize that eating iwth your open is rude, gross, annoying, and unecessary, we'd be a much better world.<br />All teens should have a class/course/book on ettiquette, and of the books I have read (admiteedly nowhere near as many as are out there), this one is my favorite so far for depth of information, and presentation of it.  Many good pictures, and a pretty straightforward and logical format.  I also very much appreciate that throughout the book are some real-world etiquette questions that youth have asked, about addressing friend's step-parents, how to go on a date, saying thnk you for gifts, dealing with problems in school and at home in a civil and gentlemanly/ladylike way, and even some sexual situations (how to say no, how to talk openly, how to respect one another...).  Teens will definitely appreciate that the book isn't working only in the abstract, but has many eamples of real-world problems.  Problems that never fit nicely into any one category, either, which is where pretty much every real world problem exists.  That's why we have etiquette!<br />I suggest this book for all teenagers.	2001-11-02
US	52931861	R1G06UAK6SD08V	0310575516	493739803	Help! I'm a Volunteer Youth Worker	Books	5	6	7	N	Y	Excellent nugget, but not a treatise	Perfect book to hand out to your youth ministry volunteers, and to go over and discuss.  It's a small book, with one bit advice per page.  It's not long on words - this thing is not a book about youth ministry, or how to do youth ministry.  It's a short, quickie book of reminders to adults of how to interact and be in relationship with young people.  So don't get this if you are looking for a how-to book, but definitely get it for something to give to the team, and also for yourself to look over from time to time and be reminded of some relational things you might have forgotten about, etc.<br />It's also usable in pretty much every church - whether conservative or liberal, evaneglical, charismatic, or mainline, since it isn't about teaching doctrine, but about how to be with young poeple (and not go insane, and not drive them insane).<br />I am quite impressed with it, and certainly think that all youth ministers and youth ministry volunteers should have a copy.  Very helpful.	2001-11-02
US	52931861	RIEAKX5BFXTAJ	0813527422	957636861	Twin Towers: The Life of New York City's World Trade Center	Books	2	9	13	N	N	Disappointing; informational, but not overly so	I am really quite disappointed in this book.  I thought it would have much more detailed engineering analyses of the construction, and definitely thought it would be full of pictures.  Unfortunately, it has neither.  The diagrams and images it does have are not worth very much.  For those who never had the chance to visit the towers, or those who want a quicky, condensed light history, you can go for this book. I hesitate to recommend it, though, because of the lack of information that you really shuold have.  For those of have visited, and those of us who worked in it or near it, you will realize that this book is not a proper memory or record.  It lacks engineering information, and it also lacks much of the history that is essential knowledge. It has some of the political stuff that went on, but doesn't do justice to the political wrangling, the economic wrangling, the fights between citizens and architects, and the fights between the tower architects and other architects. New York City is a colorfully political place, with incredibly volatile dialogue between corporate America, the politicians, the construction mob bosses, artists, liberals, conservatives, you name it.  The building of these towers brought all these people out to speak against and for, and unfortunately, this book completely misses the whole &quot;New Yorkness&quot; of the dialogue/debate about constructing the towers. The author writes about it in a way that leaves the reader not really knowing New York City.  The building of the Towers could have taken place in any other city, for all the sense of location the author imbues into the story.  It's very sad.<br />I hate to rag on a book, but I found this so unappealing after reading it, because of the lack of pictures, lack of detail, and lack of history, that I cannot recommend it.<br />I still give it two stars, because even though it isn't as well done as it should have been, at least it is factual in the story that is presented. It's incomplete, but it is true.e, but it is true.	2001-10-16
US	52931861	R1ZEC7WPGNXPXE	067084487X	569134622	The Stinky Cheese Man and Other Fairly Stupid Tales	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Intelligent, witty book that doesn't pander to children	I was so happy when I first read this book.  Many smiles, lots of laughs, and even a fair amount of out loud laughing.  I still laugh at the thing, and I've been reading it since it was published.  These are wonderfully witty and intelligently done destructions of fairy tales, with an incredible visual backdrop of artwork and fontwork.  This is definitely for the more intelligent and/or culturally aware and/or 'worldly' child, since the humor, like Monty Python humor, would be lost on a child or adult who hasn't had much cultural/intellectual/artistic depth in their education/experience.<br />ONe of my favorites is the very straightford &quot;Ugly Duckling&quot; retelling, wherein the &lt;spolier alert&gt; ugly duckling just grows up into an ugly duck.  And the Jack and Beanstalk retelling is very clever, and requires some thought to get a handle on it.<br />The beauty of this book is not just the artwork, the writing, and the fontwork, but also that you can give it to a small child, a teenager, or an adult, and be equally appropriate.  Very much like Rocky and Bullwinkle or The Simpsons or Shakespeare, that plays so well for all stages of development.	2001-10-09
US	52931861	R3JYZ2HZ1M1EAO	1861001568	672097433	Instant HTML Programmer's Reference Html	Books	5	0	0	N	Y	Fantastic capsule HTML book!	Of course, this is dated already, but if you are doing plain vanilla HTML, this is the most perfect HTML guide I've come across, and I have many.  Even 3 years after it was published, when I need to look something up, this is the book that comes off the shelf first, and usually the only book that needs t come off the shelf.  Which is amazing, considering how small the thing is, too.<br />It's not the meta-level description device that other HTML books are, so if you want more details on why things are the way they are, then you'll need another book.  But if you get stuck and can't remember how to format colors in a table, you'll find it lickity-split in this book, with examples, and helpful clarifications.<br />If you do any HTML, put this book in your library.	2001-09-06
US	52931861	R215197BTJNL9U	0028621190	109117327	The Complete Idiot's Guide to Making Money in Freelancing	Books	3	6	6	N	Y	An okay start, but not enough to go it alone	This book was informative, and does indeed include many helpful hints and tips. However, as a textbook on going it alone and freelancing, this is not it. The author says some things unclearly, and some things that need little explication are described to a point of excessive belaborment. The cutesy little extras are not helpful, either. Granted, the Idiots books are not designed to be full scale treatises, but even within the Idiots series, this book falls short - it barely offers the reader a glimpse of how to be a freelancer. I should fear for anyone who attempts to start their own career after reading only this book.<br />If you have not freelanced, and are looking to start, begin with this book - it is a good grounding in the (very) basics of freelancing. But, please, make sure to go on to a few other books afterward before trying anything. This book will help you understand those other books better because you will at least have been introduced to the language.	2001-09-06
US	52931861	R1UPZFJGYZ8UU8	0520214919	568376237	Writings on Glass: Essays, Interviews, Criticism	Books	3	5	5	N	Y	Ehhhh, it was okay....	That's about it - this is an okay collection of okay essays.  Some are quite good, most are quite average, a few are not so good at all.  The layout is also not very helpful - they are not chronologically arranged, but instead are put in some other, non-linear fashion.  I am a *huge* fan of Glass, and am generally excited by anything about him - even just seeing his name printed somewhere or hearing his music on a commercial - but I was only whelmed by this book, and wouldn't necessarily recommend it to people.  Seems as though the compiler could have found much better articles to include - surely in the years covered there were much more vibrant and intelligent writers writing about Glass.<br />If you are a diehard fan, or if you need some research material collected in one spot, go for this book. Otherwise, well, take your chances.	2001-09-06
US	52931861	R1Q6RJQJH2SHT1	0312381859	729758800	A History of Pi	Books	5	7	9	N	N	An excellent example of proper historical writing	This is a great history of that enigmatic number.  He begins with the first instance we can find of someone using math to determine circumference, and what value of pi they used, and how they likely found it.  He then follows the development of pi throughout history, including both European and Asian developments.  It is a fascinating story of coming ever closer to the real value of pi, and ever more ingenious methods of getting that closeness.<br />And contrary to the religious zealots who have reviewed so far, the history of pi, at least in Europe, cannot be told without making mention, and offering appropriate criticism, of the effect of the Catholic Church  (and later, the Protestant church) on the development of pi, and of the development of science and mathematics in general.  I very much appreciated that the author had the foresight, and the intelligence, to offer a history that is much richer than the majority of history texts I have ever read.  Throwing away the old useless mantra of the \\"objective history\\", this author plunges headlong and offers his history with the full knowledge that it is impossible to offer a historical perspective that is free of bias.  His bias is that of someone who wants to talk about the history of pi, and you can't do that without talking about who developed new ways of making closer numbers, and also of who strayed from the number through mathematical incompetence, or religious fervor that denies the mathematical truth in favor of \\"doctrinal correctness\\".  The meddling, and also the support, of the Church is important historical data that need to be offered in a history text.  Yes, he does come down very heavy handed on the church, and at times maybe a bit too much, but one can never be critical enough of a church that, for hundreds of years, burned scientists and mathematicians at the stake for declaring things that \\"weren't in accordance with Scripture\\".  I mean, come on.  He also delves into the political machinations that have thwarted and supported the development of mathematics, how some kings were supportive of advancing the science, how others were indifferent, how others were against it, and the effect those kings (or other leaders') wishes had on the advancement or retreat of science and mathematics.<br />It's an absolutely fascinating story.  He does include a fair amount of mathematics, some of it quite developed, but the reader does not have to sift through any of it to get the history of the development of an accurate value for pi - the math can be completely skipped over, and the story is still there.  His writing is lucid and clear, and he has a great way with making the story interesting and compelling so that the reader doesn't want to put the book down.  And as I mentioned, I love this book because it very rightly includes the effect of religion and politics and economics on the development of something.  I continue to be bored with history books that think they can talk about a whole period of history without having to mention the effect of religion, or the effect of science, or the effect of economics, or the effect of geography, etc. To all writers of history, especially those of you who insist on writing textbooks, please take this book as an example of how to write a **complete** history of something, and stop pretending that you don't have to talk about religion, economics, and culture at the same time, and that you can instead focus on a singularly political history. It just doesn't work.<br />If you enjoyed this book, I suggest you also read Galileo's Daughter. It will give you another good handle on the anti-science stance of the Church of that period, and it's also a compelling and wonderful read about an amazing man. With The Story of Pi and Galileo's Daughter, you will see how we of the Western world are amazingly lucky that the stranglehold of fear and suspicion and hatred that the Catholic Church held for so long was finally overthrown.  We scientists/engineers, and the general population, would otherwise still have no science or math, and would continue to live in fear of coming into \\"heresy\\" and being burned alive. I also suggest reading \\"e: the story of a number\\", for the development of the counterpart of PI, which is also a well-written history, though it is strictly a focus on the math, and does little or nothing with the politics, religion, etc. of the development.neers, and the general population, would otherwise still have no science or math, and would continue to live in fear of coming into \\"heresy\\" and being burned alive. I also suggest reading \\"e: the story of a number\\", for the development of the counterpart of PI, which is also a well-written history, though it is strictly a focus on the math, and does little or nothing with the politics, religion, etc. of the development.	2001-09-05
US	52931861	R173TB6O5UKXEE	0385334540	544523612	Why Not Me?: The Inside Story of the Making and Unmaking of the Franken Presidency	Books	4	11	16	N	N	Very funny, very witty political satire and human tragedy	This is a hilarious account of Al Franken's campaign for presidency, election win, and then disgrace that ended with his resignation as president after only 144 days in office.  It is classic Al Franken, though it felt to me a little more teenage boy humor than he usually has - this is not a bad thing, just a different thing.  In the context of his campaign in New Hampshire and Iowa with Dan Haggerty, Al's alcoholic brother, Dick Morris, and a few others using rented cars and sharing hotel rooms, it makes sense to include lots of fart and physical humor jokes.<br />The best part of the book, as others have noted, is the campaign diary.  I laughed out loud many, many times, even on the subway with lots of people around.  It is simply hilarious, sometimes gutbustingly hilarious, almost always at least a chuckle.  The diary works so well, because it is so honest.  He recorded all his bad thoughts (hating New Hampshire people enough to refer to them as \\"inbred\\", his time spent with prostitutes, etc.), his brother's drunken fests of hitting people with boards, etc.  Franken's writing is such that the characters have a real consistency in their actions throughout the course of the campaign year, and after the election.  The demise of his presidency reads like a really funny Greek tragedy, filled with ennui and hubris.  This is very good writing - tight, succinct, and awfully funny - and very good at skewering people, politics, and traditions, of all faiths, beliefs, and inclinations, whether on the right or on the left.  The rest of the book is also very good.  If the book were only the non-diary material, it would still be very funny.  The situation is simply that the diary is ***so*** extra-hilarious, that the humor in the other parts seems diminished in comparison.  The transcripts of Franken's debates against Gore will leave you shaking with laughter, too.<br />Franken takes many digs on Gore and Democrats, and of course nails the republicans and corporations, and the whole political machine, with his wonderfully funny sarcastic wit. This is a book that you should read, especially if you like humor.<br />Conservatives, probably especially of the Christian Right type, will probably not like it because Franken doesn't worship Ronald Reagan.  Normal thinking people, though, will find this wonderfully funny and entertaining and get a few hours of decent laughter out of this skewer of the political process - skewers that are aimed at Democrats and Republicans and Independents alike.whole political machine, with his wonderfully funny sarcastic wit. This is a book that you should read, especially if you like humor.<br />Conservatives, probably especially of the Christian Right type, will probably not like it because Franken doesn't worship Ronald Reagan.  Normal thinking people, though, will find this wonderfully funny and entertaining and get a few hours of decent laughter out of this skewer of the political process - skewers that are aimed at Democrats and Republicans and Independents alike.	2001-09-05
US	52931861	R1ZPVBEFWO5VGG	084782103X	330436171	Robert Wilson	Books	5	5	6	N	Y	Superbly well-crafted book about a superb craftsman	Of course, you might not like Robert Wilson at all, and will assume, therefore, that this book is equally bad, since it is about a topic  an artist - you do not like.  However, let us put the book into the perspective of what it is  a pictorial and essay romp through the lifes work of a major theatrical artist.  This book is huge  if you are looking for a coffee table book about Robert Wilson, this is it.  This thing is bloody heavy.  The pages are crisp and thick, and it is loaded, absolutely loaded, with photos of Wilsons stagecraft.  The photos and the stories cover both the development of theatrical ideas, and also the live performances, so you can see shots of the stages with and without actors, and during rehearsals and during shows.  For the person interested in theater, or other visual art, Robert Wilson is a guy who should be studied.  He paints with light, has some pretty unconventional methods of movement, use of space, and design of stage.  What is so compelling about Wilson is that nothing unnecessary happens on stage  every movement, whether a nod of the head, a twitch of the hand, a move of the arm are all planned and staged; every costume, every prop, every chair are all designed specifically for a production, and placed with precise exactitude to make the entirety of the stage balanced with the story being told.  Hes an amazing artist, and an even more amazing theatrical designer.  For the person new to Robert Wilson, you might be most interested by his stagings of known works  LOHENGRIN at the Met, or DIE ZAUBERFLOTE, or a host of other well-known pieces.  The Wilson novitiate, knowing those stories, will get a better idea of how Wilson thinks and stages these things. Looking at pictures of his own works, which you might not be familiar with, makes it difficult to tell just what hes doing.<br />It is laid out in a mostly linear fashion, beginning in the 60s, and working through to the present. The essays and text is helpful and dense with information, and offers many insights into what Robert Wilson has been, and still is, trying to evoke with his incredible and unique theatrical vision.<br />This book excels at offering a glimpse of Robert Wilsons work and philosophy.  Of course, since this is mainly a picture book, it is not as insightful or dense as a pure book of text might be, but you cant speak of Wilson without showing some pictures, so a book of text would be useless anyway.<br />My only beef with this book is that it does not have enough pictures.  But, its already hundreds of pages long and extremely heavy, so obviously this is merely the wish of a fan, not a criticism of the book itself.<br />This book also excels within the genre of books about visual art.  It is well organized, well indexed, the pictures are sharp and in focus and gloriously show the vivid colors that Robert Wilson loves to use.  The craftmanship is excellent, the binding superb, the paper thick and long-lasting, etc. etc. etc.  You might think I dwell on the physical aspect of the book too much, but for a [price] book, you better be getting something not only of content quality, but of physical quality, and this book delivers.<br />If you are a fan of Wilson, or a fan of the theater, this book is one of my top recommends.  I admit, I am a huge fan of Wilson, so I have that bias, but I love to page through this thing to be inspired and to get lost in his wonderful aesthetic.<br />Kudos to the publisher, and kudos to the authors/editor and Robert Wilson.ul and dense with information, and offers many insights into what Robert Wilson has been, and still is, trying to evoke with his incredible and unique theatrical vision.<br />This book excels at offering a glimpse of Robert Wilsons work and philosophy.  Of course, since this is mainly a picture book, it is not as insightful or dense as a pure book of text might be, but you cant speak of Wilson without showing some pictures, so a book of text would be useless anyway. <br />My only beef with this book is that it does not have enough pictures.  But, its already hundreds of pages long and extremely heavy, so obviously this is merely the wish of a fan, not a criticism of the book itself.<br />This book also excels within the genre of books about visual art.  It is well organized, well indexed, the pictures are sharp and in focus and gloriously show the vivid colors that Robert Wilson loves to use.  The craftmanship is excellent, the binding superb, the paper thick and long-lasting, etc. etc. etc.  You might think I dwell on the physical aspect of the book too much, but for a [price] book, you better be getting something not only of content quality, but of physical quality, and this book delivers.<br />If you are a fan of Wilson, or a fan of the theater, this book is one of my top recommends.  I admit, I am a huge fan of Wilson, so I have that bias, but I love to page through this thing to be inspired and to get lost in his wonderful aesthetic.<br />Kudos to the publisher, and kudos to the authors/editor and Robert Wilson.	2001-07-30
US	52931861	R2JQBP86TA44UY	0553380958	445913	Snow Crash	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Awesome! Quite an exciting ride!	The cyberpunk book I am reading (Snow Crash by Neal Stephenson, the first novel by the guy who wrote Cryptonomicon, about which I raved so much) has a character making the conjecture that the deutoronomists came up with the codification of the law into scripture in order to make the Hebrew people immune from the virus of Asherah worship.  The point being that Asherah worship is a virus that is not good for people, like a disease, but that the Hebrew religion (as codified by the Deuteronomists), being the first rational religion, brings immunity from the pre-rational religions (and the pre-rational religions work by actually re-wiring people's brains). Cool concept, isn't it? This all comes about because in the book is a bad guy who created a weird Christian religion mixing Jesus and Elvis, but which, apparently, actually is a virus that spreads easily from one person to another, and which includes the speaking of tongues, but quite possibly the tongue they are speaking is Sumerian, leading back to the Asherah worship thing, and our protagonist must work to stop the virus from spreading.  Fascinating modes of thinking this Neal Stephenson has, and brilliant writing.  Not just some great philosophy, but he has a wonderful way of describing scenes, and can be hilariously funny at times.  This is a must read book, for fans of any genre, but it is simply too good not to read.	2001-07-02
US	52931861	R2V3LNTX6H9VA8	0060932902	730202454	Genome: The Autobiography of a Species in 23 Chapters	Books	5	31	32	N	N	Fascinating, well done,	Fascinating stuff, this genetic science, especially now that we have mapped our DNA.  This is a very well-written about genetics, in general, and some history surrounding the development of genetics and the human genome project.  It is not, however, a history of the human genome project, which I assumed it was (one must be careful when buying a book based only on the title!).  I was initially disappointed that it wasn't the story of the project, but I am very pleased at what I have learned from it.  Especially intriguing is that the author talks a lot about what genes do and don't do, and how even a gene that is linked with a disease, say Huntington's disease, isn't really something you can call The Huntington's Gene.  He's a very good writer.  He can be fairly technical at times, but even when he is, he makes sure to also make an analogy, or re-explain in easier to understand terms.  This is one of the best science books I have read simply in terms of writing that is lucid, structured, and keeps the reader wanting to read more.<br />One major compelling point to this book is that he does include some history, including the different scientists and who fought with whom, and who continues to fight in the struggle to be the first to discover something new, and also in the struggle scientists have between each other in terms of the philosophical/cultural ramifications of certain genes.  Especially interesting is the chapter on intelligence.  The author delves into the history of the first, early and completely inappropriate IQ tests developed in the US and Britain, and the horrible fallout from them since they determined that immigrants have low IQ (which is not surprising, later criticizers have said, since the tests were in English, and many immigrants didn't speak English).  But certainly the idea of genetic intelligence is a very touchy one, but the author does bring up a number of studies that show that IQ is, in some ways, genetic; that intelligence is not completely cultural/education-based (but is also not completely genetic, either).  Of the chapters in the book, I found this one the most interesting, and especially the valid and well-done studies that have looked into the link between genetics and intelligence (and intelligence meaning and including a variety of intelligences - analytic, kinesthetic, language use, etc.), whatever the culture being studied, in whatever country.  Fascinating stuff.<br />Some might be turned off by some of the author's intentional visibility of self.  I greatly enjoyed that instead of merely reporting the facts, he also comments on them from his own view, and also includes contrary views from contrary scientists.  While many diseases are linked to certain genes, the rest of the human behavior, while genetic (at least somewhat) is vaguely and very imperfectly known, so it is helpful for me to hear the author's opinion about what some findings could mean for the future of healthcare, school curricula, racial tensions, etc.  I don't always agree with the author, but I am very glad to have his voice in it.  And also very glad that his voice is based more on reason, than any particular ideology - I certainly cannot tell whether he is religious or anti-religion, whether he might be Christian, Buddhist, Jewish or anything else, or whether he is liberal or conservative.  It's welcome to have his voice, and to have his voice be reasonable and even-handed.  I found myself thinking much more about certain points simply because he offered an opinion (and/or offered the opinions of scientists who disagree with each other).  A great book overall, and a wonderful introduction into what genetics is and isn't, and how far it has come in the last 5 years. Important reading, and very well-written.tely cultural/education-based (but is also not completely genetic, either).  Of the chapters in the book, I found this one the most interesting, and especially the valid and well-done studies that have looked into the link between genetics and intelligence (and intelligence meaning and including a variety of intelligences - analytic, kinesthetic, language use, etc.), whatever the culture being studied, in whatever country.  Fascinating stuff.<br />Some might be turned off by some of the author's intentional visibility of self.  I greatly enjoyed that instead of merely reporting the facts, he also comments on them from his own view, and also includes contrary views from contrary scientists.  While many diseases are linked to certain genes, the rest of the human behavior, while genetic (at least somewhat) is vaguely and very imperfectly known, so it is helpful for me to hear the author's opinion about what some findings could mean for the future of healthcare, school curricula, racial tensions, etc.  I don't always agree with the author, but I am very glad to have his voice in it.  And also very glad that his voice is based more on reason, than any particular ideology - I certainly cannot tell whether he is religious or anti-religion, whether he might be Christian, Buddhist, Jewish or anything else, or whether he is liberal or conservative.  It's welcome to have his voice, and to have his voice be reasonable and even-handed.  I found myself thinking much more about certain points simply because he offered an opinion (and/or offered the opinions of scientists who disagree with each other).  A great book overall, and a wonderful introduction into what genetics is and isn't, and how far it has come in the last 5 years. Important reading, and very well-written.	2001-02-16
US	52931861	R1EMDL196U0BCW	0312195516	226874686	The Red Tent	Books	5	29	34	N	N	I didn't want to stop reading it	Putting my thoughts about this book into words is quite difficult, but suffice to say that this a riveting, beautifully written story that I did not want to stop reading.  Her prose is very compelling, and amazingly economical - I don't know if she normally writes this way, but I found the economy of words to also help transport me to the barreness of the desert in whcih the story takes place.  As a book this is just plain wonderful writing that anyone would greatly enjoy experiencing.<br />However, since this is a story of Dinah, a Biblical character, one must also rate this book as a part of the religious tradition, and in that regard, I feel that it works beautifully.  Dinah is mentioned but once in the long story of Jacob in Genesis, and her story deserves to be told.  Obviously, this is a work of fiction, and is not to be taken as canonical.  Dinah's story comes so alive, though, and fills in so much of what is missing from the Bible story (and what is missing in the Bible is the story of the women - interesting how their stories seemingly disappeared over time...).  Obviously, also, the religious zealots out there will take issue with this book because they tend to take issue with anything that might challenge their thoughts and cause them to think differently about what might have happened 3500 years ago. While I am sure the Bible is a fairly accurate record of many things that happened, I am sure that in the small details, it has been embellished (or changed through copying errors) in the 3500 years this story has been passed on. Diamant's representation of Jacob and his sons as very human with very human needs/foibles was a welcome take on the typical superman-like representations of these guys.  I don' think that Diamant has re-written the Biblical story, but she has taken all those holes and unsaid things, and filled them in with narrative of what might have been, and certainly could have been.<br />What is so compelling for me in the story, besides my absolute fascination with lives in Canaanite and pre-Canaanite times, is the story of women - not just of the women in the story, but this really becomes a story of what it was like to be a woman in that era, when countless gods were worshiped, when nature was something to pay attention to, when childbirth was more dangerous and natural, in a fairly nomadic and earth-based style of living.  In the red tent, the gathering place of Rachel and Leah and the other women for the three days every month, the stories of the women were passed from one generation to the next; the women were free to be truly female, and to talk about their own fears and joys as they celebrate together the constant ebb and flow of life/death/rebirth.  Dinah becomes a mid-wife, and a darn good one, and Diamant has gorgeous writing about the delivering of babies - the pain, the mess, the screaming, the joy of new babies, and the sorrow of babies delivered dead, and of mothers who die in childbirth.  And yet life goes on, as it always does, and people move on.  The red tent, in the book, becomes of the symbol (for us) of what can happen if women have a place to share and be safe, and celebrate their bodies with one another - directly opposed to what we have today, I believe, in which women don't have chance or or not allowed or simply don't feel like sharing, caring, and celebrating the gift of life-giving which they carry in them.  I hope this book will serve to drive a new direction, perhaps especially within the chruch, in which women can be free to truly talk about and celebrate and not have to be ashamed about their menstruation, and in which, perhaps, the lives of girls can be celebrated as they enter into womanhood.<br />I also love all the twists and turns that the plot takes - the book concentrates on Dinah, of course, but after she leaves Jacob's tribe, her life comes into contact with the tribe or peolpe she knew before.  So we get Dniah's story for a while, and then a retelling of a situation that is in the Biblical story.  I hope that we will have more books about the lives of the women in the Bible. Certainly their stories were told at one time - Phyllis Trible taught us that in seminary - and it would be nice to reclaim them from the male-dominated society that slowly wiped those stories out, or didn't feel them sufficiently important to include.tion that is in the Biblical story.  I hope that we will have more books about the lives of the women in the Bible. Certainly their stories were told at one time - Phyllis Trible taught us that in seminary - and it would be nice to reclaim them from the male-dominated society that slowly wiped those stories out, or didn't feel them sufficiently important to include.	2001-02-02
US	52931861	R2ATQEMK9X836A	0964660105	194186099	The Teachings of the Angel of North America: Book I: How to Save Your Soul and Your Society	Books	1	0	0	N	N	Absolutely bizarre incoherency from a guy who claims . . .	. . . to be the Angel of North America.  The one to whom God told the secrets of how to live in harmony so that humanity is not plunged into another Dark Ages.<br />Read it for a laugh, and then shed some tears for a man who is 1) hopelessly insane, 2) So evil that he will say or do anything to earn money off people's fears, 3) simply odd and not quite coherent.<br />The author is the Angel's wife, and she was written down what the Angel says to her. One wonders at the honesty of this couple, but of course, I cannot say anything against, them, either.  Certainly a fair amount of this book is good theology - be nice, do good, be concerned for your soul, marry with the attitude that marriage is lifetime commitment, and a few others.  But it's just plain odd, and very, very creative (in a bad way) at times with theology.	2000-12-18
US	52931861	R2DM9Y1Q5DN56E	0801002230	408940105	In God's Image After All: How Psychology Supports Biblical Creationism	Books	1	6	16	N	N	Unmitigated, unscientific, piece of junk	I am a minister (UCC) and a scientist (a real one). This book is but one from a group of so-called creation-scientists. As a minister/scientist, I have to say this book, and others like it, are unhelpful garbage. I believe that science and theology must go together - and have preached that they must, and that they very well do go together in a beautiful and meaningful way. But to do that, one has to have a mature enough faith to realize that the Bible is not a record of scientific fact.<br />As far as creation-science books go, Ackerman's book is easily one of the worst. His conclusions consistently cross over into the realm of science-fiction (and really bad science-fiction at that), which only makes sense, since his data and his starting points are also equally into the ream of bad science-fiction. One thing the fundamentalists like to do is ignore actual scientific data, and simply cite other creationists (assuming they even cite anything at all). Since they are, obviously, speaking for God, I guess they don't need footnotes or reproducible science data, or anything else that anyone would need making an argument.  And that's what appalls me so much about creation-science (and all fundamentalist theology, actually) - that writers have no need to try to sway their audience, they simply imply that everything they say is true, so why does it need to be cited, proven, or substantiated? I am appalled at books like this because they obfuscate the real issue (of a majestic, mighty, beautifully creative God) to ke! ep their parishioners from actually thinking. I mean, thinking leads to questions, and once they start questioning a fundamentalist theology, they realize it is wrong and bad, and they move elsewhere. So, books like this are excellent resources to keep your laity and your parishioners ignorant, confused, and afraid of the world outside the church, and, therefore, books like this keep their almighty donations in the church.<br />It's even more bizarre when a psychologist, which isn't even really a scientistic, tries to venture into the realm of using psychology to prove a creationist stance.  It's so funny, it's worth reading, but it's so funny, it makes me sad that some so-called Christians actually think this way, and *don't* think it's funny.<br />Please remember I am saying this as a minister, who serves a church, and who loves the church mightily.  But I also believe that evolution is yet another magnificent manifestation of our wonderful creator's process.  The Bible is about faithful life for us, and the faithful (and most times unfaithful) lives of our forebears. It is not, and I am very confident in saying this, a science textbook.  Evolution does not go against the Bible at all. I don't think that one has to be a creationist to believe we are created in the image of God - I believe God created everything (but not in the strict order given in the two *very different* creation stories ni Genesis), and I also believe that evolution is certainly plausable, and the most likely vehicle for God's creation.  Ackerman believes, and I don't know why because he never says it, that if one is an evolutionist, then one cannot possibly believe that we are created in God's image. Well, folks, I am an evolutionist, and I do believe we are created in God's image.<br />Please, I ask the authors and the followers, please open your eyes and realize that books like this are written to keep you ignorant of truth, incapable of thought, and powerless under your clergy-persons and elders and deacons and other people who benefit from your fear of going to hell.<br />Read this book **only** because you should know what the creation-scientists are doing.  But for all means, don't read this book thinking that you will find something true in it.<br />&quot;In God's Image After All&quot; unfortunately only serves to continue to perpetuate the world's idea that Christians are obnoxious, ignorant, money-hungry, uncompassionate hypocrites.  Huse doesn't offer anything that might make evolution &quot;collapse&quot;, but simply serves to further collapse the relevancy of Christianity to today's world, and serves to make my job even more difficult since I must even more diligently apologize for my brethren when speaking with non-Christians to say &quot;No, Christianity is not like that at all - Jesus actually expects us to think for ourselves, and not blindly follow the people who have a financial interest in keeping us ignorant.&quot;oesn't offer anything that might make evolution &quot;collapse&quot;, but simply serves to further collapse the relevancy of Christianity to today's world, and serves to make my job even more difficult since I must even more diligently apologize for my brethren when speaking with non-Christians to say &quot;No, Christianity is not like that at all - Jesus actually expects us to think for ourselves, and not blindly follow the people who have a financial interest in keeping us ignorant.&quot;	2000-12-17
US	52931861	R130CX3TVIWDKH	0767903617	824735510	The Minimalist Cooks at Home: Recipes That Give You More Flavor from Fewer Ingredients in Less Time	Books	2	28	36	N	N	Interesting, but not essential. Not even third-tier, really	I give it two stars even though it is well written, and Bittman definitely knows what he's talking about.  The problem is that the receipes in it are available in so many other cookbooks that reading it feels like a final-semester review of the highlights of my other cookbooks. It's not overly original, and surprisingly does not contain a lot of recipes - just lots of text. And definitely a low supply of pictures (that is, there aren't *any*). One would hope, that if it doesn't have pictures, and not many recipes, but still manages to come in at a couple hundred pages long that it must, therefore, be heavy on cooking theory and helpful suggestions/ideas.  Well, alas, it doesn't have that, either.  Lastly, the whole idea for the book was to present recipes that can be made in a short time with a minimum of nigredients.  It definitely succeeds at that goal, and I do give credit for managing to offer quickly prepared foods, etc.  The only catch to this is that many of the ingredients he comes up with are fine if you live in NYC, but are either impossible to find or impossbile to afford if you are in a small town. That's a minor point, however.<br />The minimalist cook offeres a minimal amount of recipes (and nothing new in them), minimal cooking help, with a minimal amount of description of the foods, and no pictures. I minimally recommend this cookbook.  You can find so many better ones - Julia Childs' &quot;How to Cook&quot; and &quot;The French Chef&quot;, &quot;How to Cook Everything&quot;, and a few others. Don't be ..... into it just because &quot;minimalism&quot; has become so trendy.	2000-12-17
US	52931861	R3U2MC6WLVPOJH	0375404317	436983790	Julia and Jacques Cooking at Home	Books	4	20	21	N	N	Almost perfect - great food talk, annoying lack of pictures	As a cookbook, this book serves very well - lots and lots of recipes, but not as many as you might think from the 430 pages.  But, I'm glad - what I love about the book is that on the left part of the left-hand pages is a running commentary by Julia on the recipe under consideration, and on the right side of the right-hand page is Jacques' running commentary.  Very interesting to read their words on the same subjects - sometimes they disagree! It's great, and explains a lot about what food is, and the history (or folklore) of some recipes, etc.  Fascinating to read, and the recipes are great. As always, Julia brings the recipes to you in a way that is very easy to follow them and know what to do.<br />The only thing keeping this from five stars is the lack of pictures of the final dishes (or even the preparing of dishes), and the fact that the vast majority of pictures that are included are not on the same page with the recipe. Sometimes the pictures are after the recipe, sometimes before. Very annoying!<br />If you just want a cookbook full of recipes, this is not your book. But if you want to learn about how to cook, and what food means, and expand your ablity to improvise, then could be a good first start (because of the wonderful commentary from Julia and Jacques), but I would suggest starting with Julia's &quot;How to Cook&quot; which is a great cooking-theory book with other fantastic recipes.	2000-12-17
US	52931861	R1SNPKW3ZP2UF2	0345373162	213264262	A History of Knowledge: Past, Present, and Future	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Fascinating, and well-written	Offering no less than a summary of the history of human thought, from the beginning to today (or at least 1992).  Sometimes van Doren stretches himself a bit too far on a point, but for the most part I think he is very solid in what he posits, and backs it all up very well.  Do not let this be your only history of knowledge book, however (and, obviously, that advice rings true for any subject - never stick with just one book or author).  But, for the person who is interested in this topic, but does not feel the need to do a master's degree on it, &quot;History of Knowledge&quot; is just what you need.	2000-12-17
US	52931861	R1L3R0HJ55ZIKQ	0801057744	522840876	The Collapse of Evolution	Books	1	85	147	N	N	More pretend science from the creation propoganda industry	I write this review as a person who is both theologically trained (M.Div.) and scientifically trained (electrical engineer). This book is but one from a group of so-called creation-scientists. As a minister/scientist, I have to say this book, and others like it, are unhelpful in the extreme to Christians. I believe that science and theology must go together - and have preached that they must, and that they very well do go together in a beautiful and meaningful way. But to do that, one has to have a mature enough faith to realize that the Bible is not a record of scientific fact.<br />As far as creation-science books go, Huse's book is some of the worst written pabulum I have come across. His conclusions consistently cross over into the realm of science-fiction (and really bad science-fiction at that), which only makes sense, since his data and his starting points are also equally into the ream of bad science-fiction. One thing the fundamentalists like to do is ignore actual scientific data, and simply cite other creationists (assuming they even cite anything at all). Since they are, obviously, speaking for God, I guess they don't need footnotes or reproducible science data, or anything else that anyone would need making an argument. And that's what appalls me so much about creation-science (and all fundamentalist theology, actually) - that writers have no need to try to sway their audience, they simply imply that everything they say is true, so why does it need to be cited, proven, or substantiated? I am appalled at books like this because they obfuscate the real issue (of a majestic, mighty, beautifully creative God) to keep their parishioners from actually thinking. I mean, thinking leads to questions, and once they start questioning a fundamentalist theology, they realize it is wrong and bad, and they move elsewhere, taking their $$ with them that was helping to pay for the minister's Volvo and hand-tailored suits. So, books like this are excellent resources to keep your laity and your parishioners ignorant, confused, and afraid of the world outside the church, and even afraid of God who might send them to hell for believing in \\"evolution\\"; so, therefore, books like this keep their almighty donations in the church.<br />Please remember I am saying this as one who loves Christianity and the church mightily. But I also believe that evolution is yet another magnificent manifestation of our wonderful creator's process. The Bible is about faithful life for us, and the faithful (and most times unfaithful) lives of our forebears. It is not, and I am very confident in saying this, a science textbook. Evolution does not go against the Bible at all.<br />Please, I ask the authors and the followers, please open your eyes and realize that books like this are written to keep you ignorant of truth, incapable of thought, and powerless under your clergy-persons and elders and deacons and other people who benefit from your fear of going to hell.<br />Read this book **only** because you should know what the creation-scientists are doing. But for all means, don't read this book thinking that you will find something true in it.<br />\\"The Collapse of Evolution\\" unfortunately only serves to continue to perpetuate the world's idea that Christians are obnoxious, ignorant, money-hungry, uncompassionate hypocrites. Huse doesn't offer anything that might make evolution \\"collapse\\", but simply serves to further collapse the relevancy of Christianity to today's world, and serves to make my job even more difficult since I must even more diligently apologize for my brethren when speaking with non-Christians to say \\"No, Christianity is not like that at all - Jesus actually expects us to think for ourselves, and not blindly follow the people who have a financial interest in keeping us ignorant.\\"eep your laity and your parishioners ignorant, confused, and afraid of the world outside the church, and even afraid of God who might send them to hell for believing in \\"evolution\\"; so, therefore, books like this keep their almighty donations in the church.<br />Please remember I am saying this as one who loves Christianity and the church mightily. But I also believe that evolution is yet another magnificent manifestation of our wonderful creator's process. The Bible is about faithful life for us, and the faithful (and most times unfaithful) lives of our forebears. It is not, and I am very confident in saying this, a science textbook. Evolution does not go against the Bible at all.<br />Please, I ask the authors and the followers, please open your eyes and realize that books like this are written to keep you ignorant of truth, incapable of thought, and powerless under your clergy-persons and elders and deacons and other people who benefit from your fear of going to hell.<br />Read this book **only** because you should know what the creation-scientists are doing. But for all means, don't read this book thinking that you will find something true in it.<br />\\"The Collapse of Evolution\\" unfortunately only serves to continue to perpetuate the world's idea that Christians are obnoxious, ignorant, money-hungry, uncompassionate hypocrites. Huse doesn't offer anything that might make evolution \\"collapse\\", but simply serves to further collapse the relevancy of Christianity to today's world, and serves to make my job even more difficult since I must even more diligently apologize for my brethren when speaking with non-Christians to say \\"No, Christianity is not like that at all - Jesus actually expects us to think for ourselves, and not blindly follow the people who have a financial interest in keeping us ignorant.\\"	2000-12-17
US	52931861	R17YJBJCTRYP70	0847815641	852848073	Death by Chocolate: The Last Word on a Consuming Passion	Books	5	11	12	N	N	Wow!	This is a fantastic book. Filled with recipes that can almost make one feel full simply to read them...so rich, so chocolatey...Absolutely wonderful full-color photographs of most of the recipes, and plenty of helpful drawings.  This is a beautiful book, but also a magnificently usable cookbook, with a wide variety of recipes.<br />The authors have spared nothing in presenting recipes that can take hours and hours, even a couple days, and some fine-tuned equipment to make.  But they also offer many recipes that, in terms of making sweets, are fairly quick (like maybe an hour or so).  The authors also do a very commendable job offering helpful suggestions, hints, and directions on how to get around some ofthe tricky stuff.  They also include an &quot;appendix&quot; of equipment and how to use it.  Lastly, before putting any recipe in the book, they went out to a local grocery store in Williamsburg to make sure the ingredients are easily findable.  It is their belief that amazing things can be created with plain old regular ingredients.<br />This is a wonderful, wonderful cookbook, that should be in everyone's collection. Go find it! You must have it, if you like chocolate.  Even if you hate cooking, if you love chocolate, you'll want this book for the full page pictures of perfectly executed desserts.	2000-12-17
US	52931861	RAU72IBRRAU4V	080106225X	357180063	Astronomy and the Bible,: Questions and Answers	Books	2	18	71	N	N	Almost garbage - useless, unscientific, not good theology	I write this as a person both trained scientifically (I'm an electrical engineer) and trained theologically (also have M.Div.). This book is but one from a group of so-called creation-scientists. As a minister/scientist, I have to say this book, and others like it, are unhelpful. I believe that science and theology must go together - and have preached that they must, and that they very well do go together in a beautiful and meaningful way. But to do that, one has to have a mature enough faith to realize that the Bible is not a record of scientific fact.<br />As far as creation-science books go, I give this one two stars becuase the author clearly understands science, and uses some good scientific data and honesty, much more so than others of his ilk. However, whenever he makes a very valid scientific point, he then careens off into a bizarre creationist perspective that makes no sense. As any good scientist knows, one collects data, and then draws conclusions. One does not, as the creation-scientists do, make a hypothersis and then find the data to prove it (in their case, they are always proving that everything in the Bible is literally true, no matter how obviuosly it isn't, and so comletely ignore any discoveries that are in disagreement no matter how often that data has been reproduced, and instead focus on data that was gathered through questionable proceeses, or interpreted in questionable ways, usually having been done a fair distance in the past with imprecise tools). These are scientific shennanigans that any junior high science student would be able to pick up on as just plain wrong. I am saddened that Christians are out there who are so literally married to the idea that the Bible is a scientific textbook. The Bible is TRUTH, but it is not always FACT, and there's a big difference. The author re-arranges and re-numbers scientifically valid data to \\"prove\\" his point. There is absolutely nothing theologically wrong with admitting that the stars are billions of years old, billions of years away, and that the universe is even older than that. Please stop trying to force science to fit some misinterpreted Biblical claim (a claim which the Bible doesn't even make, which a close reading of the Bible will show you). There is some truly valid and well-thought scientific theology being done, especially from the Center for Theology and Natural Science at the Pacific School of Religion. If you want theological science, go there - their scientists are able to see and interpret scientific data in a scientific way, and are not clouded by forcing data to fit a Biblical model which doesn't even exist to begin with.<br />Read this book if you are interested in what the creation-scientists are doing. But don't read it because you are looking for scientific method and process. It ain't that at all. This book serves only to further make Christians look silly in the eyes of their non-Christian peers.of years old, billions of years away, and that the universe is even older than that. Please stop trying to force science to fit some misinterpreted Biblical claim (a claim which the Bible doesn't even make, which a close reading of the Bible will show you). There is some truly valid and well-thought scientific theology being done, especially from the Center for Theology and Natural Science at the Pacific School of Religion. If you want theological science, go there - their scientists are able to see and interpret scientific data in a scientific way, and are not clouded by forcing data to fit a Biblical model which doesn't even exist to begin with.<br />Read this book if you are interested in what the creation-scientists are doing. But don't read it because you are looking for scientific method and process. It ain't that at all. This book serves only to further make Christians look silly in the eyes of their non-Christian peers.	2000-12-17
US	52931861	R2B9ZR8CSK81F8	0801002044	151704970	It's a Young World After All	Books	1	16	35	N	N	Garbage - it is neither scientific nor good theology	As you read this review, please know that I am scientifically trained (electrical engineer with much quantum machanics under his belt) and theologically trained (M.Div. from seminary). This book is but one from a group of so-called creation-scientists. As a minister/scientist, I have to say this book, and others like it, are really, really bad science and bad theology. I believe that science and theology must go together - and that they very well do together in a beautiful and meaningful way. But to do that, one has to have a mature enough faith to realize that the Bible is not a record of scientific fact - the Bible is TRUTH, but not FACT, and there's a big difference between the two. This book is unimaginably wrong. The author attempts to show us that the Earth is actually less than 10,000 years old. This wouldn't be so bad, but the author is also a professor (of psychology) who teaches at an instution of higher learning (Wichita State University at the time he wrote this book). This is simply appalling - he has to go through some absolutely bizarre and circuitous routes to \\"prove\\" his point. These are scientific shennanigans that any junior high science student would be able to pick up on as just plain wrong. I am saddened that Christians are out there who are so literally married to the idea that the earth (and the universe) can't be more than about 5,700 years old that they re-arrange and re-number scientifically valid data to \\"prove\\" their point. There is absolutely nothing theologically wrong with admitting that the earth is billions of years old, and that the universe is even older than that. Please stop trying to force science to fit some misinterpreted Biblical claim (a claim which the Bible doesn't even make, which anyone who reads the Bible closely will realize). There is some truly valid science and theology being done, especially from the Center for Theology and Natural Science at the Pacific School of Religion. If you want theological science, go there - their scientists are able to see and interpret scientific data in the way that it must be interpreted, and are not clouded by forcing data to fit a Biblical model which doesn't even exist to begin with.<br />Read this book if you are interested in what the creation-scientists are doing. But don't read it becuase you are looking for scientific method and process. It ain't that at all. This book serves only to further make Christians look like a bunch of blind, dogmatic, uncreative charlatans to their non-Christian peers.e - their scientists are able to see and interpret scientific data in the way that it must be interpreted, and are not clouded by forcing data to fit a Biblical model which doesn't even exist to begin with.<br />Read this book if you are interested in what the creation-scientists are doing. But don't read it becuase you are looking for scientific method and process. It ain't that at all. This book serves only to further make Christians look like a bunch of blind, dogmatic, uncreative charlatans to their non-Christian peers.	2000-12-17
US	52931861	R36A5BIVHZK4A	0140286780	201332264	Your Money or Your Life: Transforming Your Relationship with Money and Achieving Financial Independence	Books	5	45	47	N	N	Voices what I thought was wrong in my relationship to money	I had long known that my relationship to money was not correct, although I tried. This book put all my thinking into a cohesive mode, and a way of thinking and aspiring that has re-shaped how I look at the world, look at my contribution, and live in relation to money and my dreams.<br />This is not a book about budgeting money, but about looking at how spend money, and deciding if specfic expenditures are truly worth it to you. The authors do not say what is right and what is wrong to spend money on, but get the reader to think about what is right for them. To do this, they authors suggest, keep track of every cent you spend, and what you spent it for, and at the end of the month total everything up, and see how you did. But remember, there's no right or wrong - only what you think is right or wrong. Are you buying a $1 cup of coffee every morning before work? Well, if you do the authors' suggestion, you'll see at the end of your first month that you just spent $20-25 that month on coffee. Is it really worth it to you? How much are you really spending on gas? What if you walked to the grocery store instead?<br />The authors want you to live nothing less than as a human, and the way to do that is through financial freedom. Are you willing to give up that coffee every day if it means saving that dollar, and being able to retire a year earlier? (YES - with the miracle of compound interest, it could happen). The authors believe, and I agree with them, that the earlier we can stop working and live off our earnings, the better it is for us, and for the community (meaning earth) as a whole. It means we will not have consumed as much, and also that we are then free - free to volunteer at the church, the school, the VFW, hospital, whatever; and/or free to pursue whatever our dream is, since we don't have to worry about making an income from it. Is your dream to paint fine art? Well, if you work like a dog for as much money as you can earn, you can save and then have the freedom to do it. Or to spend time with your children. Or your spouse. Or helping your community. And even if you don't aspire to retire early, or want to work at a job just to make a lot of money, I found that this system certainly altered my spending in ways that actually increased my quality of life, while reducing my outlay, because I only spend on things I truly am interested in, or truly need. It's amazing.<br />I think these are very noble thoughts and ideas, and this book will help you do it. But you gotta work at it - I was amazed, after the first couple months using their spending tracking thing, how much I was wasting and didn't realize it. Then I was amazed at how easy it is now *not* to waste that money. I almosst never buy soda or water when walking around the city, but take water with me from home. I don't buy little tschotchkes any more (unless I really truly want it), since it's an environmental and financial waste. And I have saved money like I've never been able to save before, without going on a budget, or decreasing my quality of life. I merely eliminated the spending that I thought was adding up to much (but was), and wasn't increasing my quality of life at all.<br />I am so much happier after reading this book, and taking their ideas to heart, and I think anyone else would, too.dom to do it. Or to spend time with your children. Or your spouse. Or helping your community. And even if you don't aspire to retire early, or want to work at a job just to make a lot of money, I found that this system certainly altered my spending in ways that actually increased my quality of life, while reducing my outlay, because I only spend on things I truly am interested in, or truly need. It's amazing.<br />I think these are very noble thoughts and ideas, and this book will help you do it. But you gotta work at it - I was amazed, after the first couple months using their spending tracking thing, how much I was wasting and didn't realize it. Then I was amazed at how easy it is now *not* to waste that money. I almosst never buy soda or water when walking around the city, but take water with me from home. I don't buy little tschotchkes any more (unless I really truly want it), since it's an environmental and financial waste. And I have saved money like I've never been able to save before, without going on a budget, or decreasing my quality of life. I merely eliminated the spending that I thought was adding up to much (but was), and wasn't increasing my quality of life at all.<br />I am so much happier after reading this book, and taking their ideas to heart, and I think anyone else would, too.	2000-12-07
US	52931861	R6USB6YC8D79A	0439064864	667539744	Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets	Books	5	7	11	N	Y	Brilliant! Excellent! Will make kids want to read!	And of course, in our society, if you can't read, you're screwed.  My nephew has long had problems reading, but, with some better education he has taken to these books, and LOVES them! I mean, for an almost-teen to tackle a 400 page book for a book report instead of something much smaller speaks well of this writer's ability to capture attention and write a compelling, meaningful, book.  And I as an adult (an engineer and a minister) have loved all four books! This is genius writing at it's best. Reminds me a lot of the Rocky and Bullwinkle Show, or the Warner Brothers Cartoons, or Shakespeare - for the simpler minds, there's a wealth of entertainment and easy readability, and for the adults/more advanced minds, there's another level of humor and literary wonderfulness.<br />Although choosing a &quot;favorite&quot; from the four books now in print is very difficult (they are all easily 5 stars), I would have to say that this was my second favorite, losing out to Book 4. But that's kind of like saying I prefer the filet mignon with 1.5 pound lobster over the prime rib with french onion soup and chocolate cheese cake for dessert. See what I mean?<br />Do you have a child? Do you have a child within you? THEN READ THIS BOOK! I have read hundreds, and I mean hundreds, of childrens books and teen novels, and I think the Harry Potter books have everything a child wants - a hero who's &quot;not mainstream&quot;, who has some secret powers he didn't know he had, who faces danger bravely but with fear, and who wins - but who wins not by destroying an enemy, but by overcoming a situation.<br />And for you bizarro fundamentalist Christians who think these books are evil - please read your Bibles, stop listening to your ministers, find a church with intelligent people who actually understand the Gospel, and leave J.K. Rowling alone.  These books exemplify the Christian life in a way that puts them in a category above most children's writing.  I mean, please - if you want to teach moral, ethical behavior, these are wonderful books for it. And remember - I'm a minister, trained in this stuff, so I know what I'm talking about.  These books are not evil, they do not promote evil, they do not affirm evil, they do not glorfy evil. On the contrary, they glorify self-sacrifice, dedication and honesty to friends, honesty in the face of evil, courage in the face of evil, and most importantly, these books show our children (and us adults) how to face our fears with bravery, even while our knees are knocking and we wish drastically we didn't have to face it.  We can learn a lot from little Harry Potter, and I find it a shame that so-called Christians have decided to wage some kind of bizarre illiterate crusade against these books.ch moral, ethical behavior, these are wonderful books for it. And remember - I'm a minister, trained in this stuff, so I know what I'm talking about.  These books are not evil, they do not promote evil, they do not affirm evil, they do not glorfy evil. On the contrary, they glorify self-sacrifice, dedication and honesty to friends, honesty in the face of evil, courage in the face of evil, and most importantly, these books show our children (and us adults) how to face our fears with bravery, even while our knees are knocking and we wish drastically we didn't have to face it.  We can learn a lot from little Harry Potter, and I find it a shame that so-called Christians have decided to wage some kind of bizarre illiterate crusade against these books.	2000-12-05
US	52931861	R2JEUPKIZJ9780	0895296640	775908130	Dressed to Kill: The Link Between Breast Cancer and Bras	Books	4	98	114	N	N	Essential reading for all women (and men, too!)	Wow! What a great book.  A mostly well-reasoned hypothesis that wearing bras leads to an increased risk of breast cancer.  It is very difficult to dispute the findings of the authors' study, although as other reviewers have pointed out, their study was not as rigorous or variable-eliminating as it should have been (thus I can give this only four stars). Of course many people will discount their findings because 1) medical professionals are addicted to using drugs to cure a problem (in this case cancer) instead of finding ways to prevent the problem, 2) medical professonals are addicted to the thought that only they have the &quot;answer&quot; because they're &quot;qualified&quot;, 3) pharmaceutical companies want people to &quot;cure&quot; themselves through medication and not through prevention or alternative treatments, because every person who gets cancer increases shareholder value, 4) the U.S. still has that bizarre puritanical unhealthy attitude toward sex that requires women to bundle up their breasts so they don't jiggle in a provocative way (do you remember the big bra thing of the 60s? The argument against going braless was a moral argument, not a scientific or aesthetic argument - &quot;it's just plain wrong not to wear a bra&quot;) so even though that bundling is obviously unhealthy, people will still require it of their women (just like tight pants, high heels, and earth-and-human-killing hair treatments, cosmetics, and perfume), 5) the manufacturers of bras spend an awful lot of money to make sure that women think they **have** to wear a bra, because only bra-wearers increase shareholder value.<br />However, I say this with the realization that for women like the previous reviewer who's a DD (and those bigger), that there is virtually no way for them to live comfortably without something bundling their breasts - that's just a no-win situation, unfortunately, unless someone comes up with something that is comfortable, useful, and doesn't restrict blood flow.<br />I do hope that women can look at and read this book with an open mind, and allow themselves to be challenged to face the real reason they wear a bra.  So much bra wearing is unneeded - it's just vanity, feeling pressure from a society that thinks it's wrong to &quot;jiggle&quot;, or feeling pressure from a society with an unhealthy idealized sense of beauty (the &quot;perfect female figure&quot;).  Women - believe me - if your man wants you to look a certain way that requires you to bundle, tuck, pinch, pluck, or use nasty chemicals, it's time to get rid of that man because he ain't worth your time.  Find someone who will respect you for being a healthy and comfortable you.<br />I am giving this book to some of the women in my life, and have already recommended it to women I work with, because prevention of cancer is sooooooo much better than treatment of cancer.  Get away from living a lifestyle that believes &quot;a pill will make me better&quot; and start thinking and living in a way that says &quot;my lifestyle can prevent me from ever needing that pill.&quot;  Obviously, some people will get cancer no matter how much prevention they try, but wouldn't you rather lower your risk of cancer as much as you can? Prevention, not treatment - that's the key.  Don't trust the medical industry, don't trust the pharmaceutical industry - trust your body, and trust yourself.flow.<br />I do hope that women can look at and read this book with an open mind, and allow themselves to be challenged to face the real reason they wear a bra.  So much bra wearing is unneeded - it's just vanity, feeling pressure from a society that thinks it's wrong to &quot;jiggle&quot;, or feeling pressure from a society with an unhealthy idealized sense of beauty (the &quot;perfect female figure&quot;).  Women - believe me - if your man wants you to look a certain way that requires you to bundle, tuck, pinch, pluck, or use nasty chemicals, it's time to get rid of that man because he ain't worth your time.  Find someone who will respect you for being a healthy and comfortable you.<br />I am giving this book to some of the women in my life, and have already recommended it to women I work with, because prevention of cancer is sooooooo much better than treatment of cancer.  Get away from living a lifestyle that believes &quot;a pill will make me better&quot; and start thinking and living in a way that says &quot;my lifestyle can prevent me from ever needing that pill.&quot;  Obviously, some people will get cancer no matter how much prevention they try, but wouldn't you rather lower your risk of cancer as much as you can? Prevention, not treatment - that's the key.  Don't trust the medical industry, don't trust the pharmaceutical industry - trust your body, and trust yourself.	2000-12-02
US	52931861	R2TJSC43B9GY9F	0945397348	628214867	Bird Girl and the Man Who Followed the Sun	Books	5	29	29	N	N	Excellently written, and a good lesson in athabaskan culture	This is a wonderful book - I read it in two days because it is so engrossing, I could scarcely put it down. Written by an Athabaskan woman, raised to hate the Inupiat (eskimos), it is a very honest rendering of Athabaskan culture from the last century - honest because it tells life like it was (miscarriages, women treated as propery, intertribal hatred, harshness of life, etc.), and honest because Wallis (an Athabaskan) is also honest about her own anti-eskimo upbringing in that the main characters in this story are Athabaskan, and the &quot;villians&quot; of the story are eskimo.  However, this story goes so far beyond any kind of mere race-based narrative.  The story is, truly, about what it means to be a person with dreams and a distinct calling in a society that does not honor difference: Bird Girl is a girl who prefers to hunt and run and be active (not a sewer and cook like women are &quot;supposed&quot; to be), and the Man Who Followed the Sun is a boy who has an intense wanderlust and need to explore new areas and learn new thing (and not interested in taking a wife, having a family, or living by the strict community-based rules of his tribe).  I am a person who has long followed my own path, and although my path does not include having to hunt carribou or face death from spear impalation, Wallis's writing, and the story, is such that anyone who is a wanderer/explorer/creative will identify with the characters, and feel refreshed and thankful that someone understands them.  I feel much better after having read this - not just because I am fascinated with Athabaskan, eskimo, and Tlingit culture, and wish I could live in that fashion for a year, but I feel better having someone write about what it means to be a wanderer/explorer; to whit, that one must leave one's family, leave's one home, and basically give up a very comfortable (but to me very stagnant and unwholesome) social setting, and carve out one's own niche - but to be a wanderer/explorer means, of course, that one's life will be mostly lonely and often filled with the scorn of others who do not understand, who do not comprehend that some people are called to be more than mere worker-bees for the sake of the &quot;stability&quot; of a society.<br />You, as a reader, will also benefit from the maps, pictures, and historical background that is also included in this book, which will hopefully also help people to realize that cultures like the native Alaskans (and any other culture that doesn't have TV, flush toilets, aluminum siding, strip malls, microwavable food, press-on-nails, or other &quot;civilized&quot; accoutrements) are, in fact, human, and human on a scale that few people who own a housefull of mass-produced paraphernalia that they don't need.<br />Mostly, though, as I stated before, Wallis has a tremendous sense of prose. Her wtriting is very immediate and unadorned.  Many would call it &quot;simplistic&quot;, but it is the kind of &quot;simplistic&quot; that is almost impossible to do well - very much like Asimov's writing in that regard. Few authors can manage to write so tightly and without excess and still write damn well, and Wallis is absolutely one of them.<br />Wallis, I thank you from the bottom of my heart for your book, for your sharing, for the culture that raised you, and for your honesty.urse, that one's life will be mostly lonely and often filled with the scorn of others who do not understand, who do not comprehend that some people are called to be more than mere worker-bees for the sake of the &quot;stability&quot; of a society.<br />You, as a reader, will also benefit from the maps, pictures, and historical background that is also included in this book, which will hopefully also help people to realize that cultures like the native Alaskans (and any other culture that doesn't have TV, flush toilets, aluminum siding, strip malls, microwavable food, press-on-nails, or other &quot;civilized&quot; accoutrements) are, in fact, human, and human on a scale that few people who own a housefull of mass-produced paraphernalia that they don't need.<br />Mostly, though, as I stated before, Wallis has a tremendous sense of prose. Her wtriting is very immediate and unadorned.  Many would call it &quot;simplistic&quot;, but it is the kind of &quot;simplistic&quot; that is almost impossible to do well - very much like Asimov's writing in that regard. Few authors can manage to write so tightly and without excess and still write damn well, and Wallis is absolutely one of them.<br />Wallis, I thank you from the bottom of my heart for your book, for your sharing, for the culture that raised you, and for your honesty.	2000-11-30
US	52931861	R2HWD3QL8V3APK	0246129220	532123154	The Sea Was Our Village	Books	4	8	9	N	Y	Inspirational and exciting, while at times obnoxious	Miles Smeeton and his wife certainly led an exciting life, and this book is the first of their series of books of their adventures at sea after Miles left the British Military.  Neither of them were sea people, but virtually on a lark they decided to buy a sailboat in England (their home) and use it to sail to the Vancouver area (in Canada) where they were moving.  This book covers that first journey, and all their pitfalls, triumphs, and exciting moments, and then also covers their trip from Vancouver to Australia.<br />Their writing is certianly inspirational - I mean, a couple who've never sailed before decide to buy a sailboat, and basically teach themselves how to sail while they navigate from England to Vancouver (through the Panama Canal).  That takes some moxy!! Their story is filled with humor, as they retell the screwups and stupid things they did as new sailors, but that same lack of knowledge at times almost cost them their lives, and those moments of the book are quite exciting (even though we know they survived).  They really make me want to try the same thing!<br />The writing style is very engaging, and somewhat witty, and Miles is definitely a story-teller, albeit at times a bit too like the stereotypical British low-level aristocrat who likes to keep a room occupied with tales of their bravado (think of &quot;Owl&quot; from Winnie the Pooh). He has so many wonderful vignettes from the stays at small islands, his encounters with other boats, and the people (natives and other sailors) that he meets on the journey, people who are friendly, some who are not.  He also writes excitingly of the whole culture of sailing people that he is slowly entering into, a culture in which most people truly go out of their way to help each other, especially green behind the ears sailors like Smeeton.  Very fascinating from a hisotrical standpoint, and a lot of fun to read from an adventure-loving standpoint. What I really enjoyed about this book, though, is that Smeeton's love of sailing truly comes through - he obviously loved every moment (even the tense life-threatening ones).  It comes through in his writing, and, of course, when he and his wife decide *not* to sell the boat after they arrive in Vancouver, one knows that they have been hooked by the lure of the sea.<br />I was at times taken aback by he Smeetons' poor treatment of native peoples as they visited many islands, and some poor coastal areas, and how they speak of those people more as novelties to be displayed than as distinct and valid cultures and individuals - the Smeetons' have an almost typical colonial attitude to any group of people who don't wear shoes, or wear &quot;the typical grass skirts native to their culture, even inappropriately on their women&quot;, and they talk some times of almost *lowering* themselves to enjoy the local culture.  But, these people are writing in the 1950s, and one cannot expect much more from a former British officer, raised to be haughty and superior in feeling self-wroth, on a sailing trip around the world in the 1950s<br />I heartily recommend this book to anyone who likes adventure books,even though it is out of print and you'll need to special order.  It's worth the wait, and worth the price of the book, and one that you might very well like to keep on your shelf for a long time to come.on's love of sailing truly comes through - he obviously loved every moment (even the tense life-threatening ones).  It comes through in his writing, and, of course, when he and his wife decide *not* to sell the boat after they arrive in Vancouver, one knows that they have been hooked by the lure of the sea.<br />I was at times taken aback by he Smeetons' poor treatment of native peoples as they visited many islands, and some poor coastal areas, and how they speak of those people more as novelties to be displayed than as distinct and valid cultures and individuals - the Smeetons' have an almost typical colonial attitude to any group of people who don't wear shoes, or wear &quot;the typical grass skirts native to their culture, even inappropriately on their women&quot;, and they talk some times of almost *lowering* themselves to enjoy the local culture.  But, these people are writing in the 1950s, and one cannot expect much more from a former British officer, raised to be haughty and superior in feeling self-wroth, on a sailing trip around the world in the 1950s<br />I heartily recommend this book to anyone who likes adventure books,even though it is out of print and you'll need to special order.  It's worth the wait, and worth the price of the book, and one that you might very well like to keep on your shelf for a long time to come.	2000-11-28
US	52931861	R18EN3I35RCGA	0670880221	201930323	Cocktail: The Drinks Bible for the 21st Century	Books	5	17	17	N	Y	This must be your first cocktail book	This is it, folks - the only cocktail mixing book you need, unless you're a not-quite-grownup that just wants fruity, sweet drinks that obscure the taste of alcohol, and doesn't want to hear about Maraschino Liquer, Pernod, or daquiris and margaritas that haven't been blended (Hemingway, like all true connoisseurs, drank them straight).<br />What I appreciate most about this book is that not only does Harrington give us many recipes, he gives us the history alongside beautiful color photographs of the drinks. This is a book of classic cocktails, lovingly offered by a man who is passionate about his art, and about maintaining the purity of his  craft and the sacred act of relaxing and/or sharing cocktails with your good friends.  For Harrington, a cocktail is not for getting drunk, but is a special treat to be savored for the complexity of the ingredients working together on one's tongue, and warming one's soul. I also appreciate very much the lengthy introduction with cocktail history, and his cocktail philosophy, and descriptions of all the various alcohols (gin, vodka, whiskey, etc.) out there, many of which I had never heard of (like Pernod, Pisco, and Lillet), and how they can work together to form amazingly complex (and exciting!) taste sensations, like the Floridita (a drink in which  the beginning of the sip is slightly sweet, moves into a full bodied flavor, and ends with just a hint of chocolate in the finish). Few cocktail books will mention this drink, and only Harrington will tell you where it comes from, what to be careful about when mixing, and what to taste for when you drink it - directions he gives for all the drinks.  He even gives variations of drinks, and explorers historically why some drinks are known by different names and/or different ingredients in different parts of the country.<br />You will find no drinks with names that you wouldn't say to your mother; certainly nothing that a refined gentleman or lady would say in public. You'll find (almost) nothing that is simply a fruity concoction designed to mask the taste of liquor so you can get drunk faster - the mai tai is in there, but mostly for historical reasons, I believe; it *is* a Trader Vic drink, after all.<br />These are real bona fide cocktails, historically researched, and written about by a master of cocktail lore who has an absolute love for his art.<br />It's been said before, but this absolutely must be your first cocktail book.  I would suggest that as your kids go off to college, you give them a copy - it'll keep them away from rum &amp; cokes and other damaging drinks, and teach them to respect alcohol and enhance their enjoyment of it. And while you're at it, pick them up a decent cocktail shaker and a couple of martini glasses, too.<br />A million stars for Harrington.lmost) nothing that is simply a fruity concoction designed to mask the taste of liquor so you can get drunk faster - the mai tai is in there, but mostly for historical reasons, I believe; it *is* a Trader Vic drink, after all.<br />These are real bona fide cocktails, historically researched, and written about by a master of cocktail lore who has an absolute love for his art.<br />It's been said before, but this absolutely must be your first cocktail book.  I would suggest that as your kids go off to college, you give them a copy - it'll keep them away from rum &amp; cokes and other damaging drinks, and teach them to respect alcohol and enhance their enjoyment of it. And while you're at it, pick them up a decent cocktail shaker and a couple of martini glasses, too.<br />A million stars for Harrington.	2000-10-12
US	52931861	RMY16ZMQMWEDA	0312866097	561606943	Icehenge	Books	3	11	13	N	N	Great read, but leaves one wanting more to think about	My thoughts on Icehenge are difficult to gather - it's a gripping story, a  page-turner.  Page-turner-ness is an important criterion for any book to  rated highly.  However, even though I loved reading the book, and hated  when I had to pause, I am still left somewhat empty after reading it,  because ultimately, it doesn't get across what I think the author wanted to  get across to us - which is the vagaries of historical research, and how  human fallability, and human ego, especially as they are enhanced by a  human life-span that has reached the 600 year range, interferes with our  ability to ever accurately reconstruct the past, no matter how advanced our  scientific archeological technology might progress.<br />The story takes place  in three different times, all after we have colonized Mars. The first part  is the Mars rebellion of 2248, told from the point of view of a woman who  ended up hijacked by a rebellious faction who were planning on going out of  the solar system to escape the dreaded corporate committee that rules Mars.  The second part takes place a few hundred years later, and involves the  discovery of &quot;Icehenge&quot;, a stonehenge-like construction of ice on  Pluto, with a sanskrit inscription and a date of 2248. The main character  of this section is an archeologist who reconstructs through  &quot;scientific&quot; means that the group of rebels from part I made  icehenge on their way out of the solar system.<br />The third part of the  story is a few hundred years after the second, and involves a main  character who does a lot of research and ends up being able to go to Pluto,  and then &quot;substantively&quot; proves that icehenge could not possibly  have been built by the rebel group, since it must be relatively recently  constructed.<br />The society and culture that Robinson created in this book  is very believable and interesting; his characters are fantastic - I cared  for them all, whether they were jerks or good people; his writing style is  readable and exciting.  But still, the story just doesn't leave me thrilled  to have read it. The potential was there to make a real important inquiry  into the nature of historical reconstruction, and thus be a commendable  treatise on our own fallability in accurately reconstructing history and  our ego-stupidity in assuming that what we &quot;discover&quot; must be the  &quot;truth&quot;. But, unfortunately, he doesn't quite do that.<br />But, in  all respect, this is also an early work of Robinson's, before reaching  maturity, so to speak, as a writer.<br />It's definitely worth the read,  absolutely.  But if you are in the mood for something more meaty, then pass  this one up, and head for something else.<br />3 stars becuase the writing  style is so awesome, but the story doesn't go as far as it could have in  enlightening us about the author's point of view.style is  readable and exciting.  But still, the story just doesn't leave me thrilled  to have read it. The potential was there to make a real important inquiry  into the nature of historical reconstruction, and thus be a commendable  treatise on our own fallability in accurately reconstructing history and  our ego-stupidity in assuming that what we &quot;discover&quot; must be the  &quot;truth&quot;. But, unfortunately, he doesn't quite do that.<br />But, in  all respect, this is also an early work of Robinson's, before reaching  maturity, so to speak, as a writer.<br />It's definitely worth the read,  absolutely.  But if you are in the mood for something more meaty, then pass  this one up, and head for something else.<br />3 stars becuase the writing  style is so awesome, but the story doesn't go as far as it could have in  enlightening us about the author's point of view.	2000-09-13
US	52931861	R3S6CAQKGKRPQ7	0517122707	161411385	A Confederacy of Dunces	Books	5	5	8	N	N	Brilliant! Just plain brilliant!	Like the best of art, this is a book that can be enjoyed on a low-level  pure-entainment level, and can be enjoyed at five stars.  But it is also  that great art kind of book that can be enjoyed at whatever high level you  might like - this is fantastic literature that be deconstructed, critiqued,  torn apart, and otherwise delved into to find layers and layers and layers  of life meaning in it.<br />What's the highest level/compliment any piece of  artwork can achieve? That it either entertained me greatly, or that it  changed my life in some way. This book works on both levels.<br />I read a lot  on the subway, since I get about an hour a day riding the rails of NYC, and  I read this book mostly on the 1/9 line.  Even though this is a public  space, I laghed out loud numerous times. Some of this book is just plain  outrageously funny - the gut-crunching painful kind of laughter-inducing  humor of Gallagher, Toy Story 2, or the Beavis and Butthead movie.  But  other parts of the book are full of emotion and ennui - the main character  of the book is not altogether psychologically with-it, but yet, he has a  profound and honest insight into a lot of the supidity and cultural BS and  killing-oneself-and-one's-world behavior that so many &quot;sane&quot;  people go after - consumerism, nationalism, idealism, ego gratification,  etc.  And that's the genius of the book - a very intelligent  &quot;hero&quot; who is also a fat, lazy, neurotic can't-hold-a-job  still-living-with-mom loser.<br />I hate to say anything more, because I hate  reviews that tell the story of the book but never comment on the story and  thus ruin all the fun for the reader.  I can't begin to tell you how much I  love this book, and how often while I was reading it that I said to people  &quot;YOU HAVE TO READ THIS BOOK!!&quot; What more do I need to say? Read  this book! It should be in the library of everyone, and is one of those  rare books that I really wish everyone in the country would read. We'd be a  better society if everyone knew it. But alas, 98% of Americans prefer crap  to well-written thinking literature, so this pulitzer winning book is  forever relgated to the bowels of the used bookstores. Shame on you  America, and kudos to those of you who will actually be intelligent to take  this book into your hands and let it change you.We'd be a  better society if everyone knew it. But alas, 98% of Americans prefer crap  to well-written thinking literature, so this pulitzer winning book is  forever relgated to the bowels of the used bookstores. Shame on you  America, and kudos to those of you who will actually be intelligent to take  this book into your hands and let it change you.	2000-09-05
US	52931861	R27N37270AWPVL	0380788624	555229230	Cryptonomicon	Books	5	77	86	N	Y	Wow! What a ride through history, math, present, and style	Just finished the book - and while reading it, I recommended it to many others because I was enjoying it so much.  I kept telling people &quot;I'm  reading the coolest book - you have to read it, too!&quot; Very well  written. Moves at an incredible pace, the dialogue is believable, and of  course the excursions into math, cryptology, engineering, computers, eating  Captain Crunch so it doesn't lacerate the roof of your mouth, and all those  incredible observations about society/culture/whatever-is-in-front-of-them  that only engineers and sceintists can make are the icing on what would be  an incredibly well-written tale even without all that stuff.<br />What makes  the book so excellent, though, is the believable story and the believable  characters.  I found that I liked all of them because they were so real - I  even cared about the bad guys.  Still want them to lose, of course, but as  a *reader*, I cared about them, and that's what keeps driving a  reader on  through a story.<br />It's certainly a book that requires some commitment - it  is very long, but I tell you, after hitting page 800, I was depressed,  knowing that I had only another 110 pages of this joyful reading ahead of  me.  How many books have done that to you lately? In the last ten years? I  read hundreds of books each year, most of them I can bring myself to enjoy  even if they aren't great literature, but it is rare that I am so much  enjoying a book that I begin to question if I should slow down, just so I  can savor the enjoyment longer - and I did that a lot with this  book.<br />Stephenson has a way with words that will leave you breathless and  in awe at his skill at writing.  His metaphors are brilliant, sometimes  hilarious.  His so-true-to-daily-life descriptions had me laughing out  loud on the subway and in the laundromat.  And if you are an engineer or  scientist, you will get all the added benefit of the &quot;inside&quot;  jokes, descriptions, observations, etc. I am stupified by Stephenson's  genius at pulling this thing off. If only more writers could be as  sharp.<br />While this is not the kind of social commentary/critique that  great art generally is, it will, I think, leave the reader a different  person than when s/he began the book. I know it has affected me on some  levels - not greatly, in the way that 1984 or Moby Dick does - but the  reader is left (if they've been paying attention) viewing the world a  little differently.<br />Lastly, if you've ever hung out with engineers or  scientists, and gotten mad/confused at them for their seemingly  cold/analytical way of looking at the world, this book is a great resource  for coming to understand why they think that way, and what it means to  them.  I have recommended this book to  a couple people simply so that,  perhaps, they will have a better understanding of why I do and say the  things I do (I am an engineer/scientist by training).  For so realistically  showing the thought processes, and motivations, of the science-inclined, I  applaud Stephenson.  For writing a book that is an awful lot of fun to  read, I appaud him, too.  Truly one of the best books in my library.Stephenson's  genius at pulling this thing off. If only more writers could be as  sharp.<br />While this is not the kind of social commentary/critique that  great art generally is, it will, I think, leave the reader a different  person than when s/he began the book. I know it has affected me on some  levels - not greatly, in the way that 1984 or Moby Dick does - but the  reader is left (if they've been paying attention) viewing the world a  little differently.<br />Lastly, if you've ever hung out with engineers or  scientists, and gotten mad/confused at them for their seemingly  cold/analytical way of looking at the world, this book is a great resource  for coming to understand why they think that way, and what it means to  them.  I have recommended this book to  a couple people simply so that,  perhaps, they will have a better understanding of why I do and say the  things I do (I am an engineer/scientist by training).  For so realistically  showing the thought processes, and motivations, of the science-inclined, I  applaud Stephenson.  For writing a book that is an awful lot of fun to  read, I appaud him, too.  Truly one of the best books in my library.	2000-09-02
US	52931861	R2LG15CFV9D7EX	0439163889	941145790	Escape from Disaster (Antarctica)	Books	5	12	13	N	Y	Great, thrilling second part of story	This part of the story is just as good and well-written as the first part.<br />Exactly the kind of story I loved as a child, and still love now -  kids out in the adult-world braving  themselves against  nature and most importantly, against their own fears and insecurities. The  story is,  of course, exciting - a trip to Antarctica  in 1909 when such trips were not so easy. The author's  realistic use of marine language, situations, and technology of the time  adds to the authenticity of the  story.<br />  What I appreciate so much about it, and what always drew me in as a  child to stories like these, is  that the youth in the  story are not just helpless ignorant children, nor are they brainy  super-kids that  never seem to be wrong. They are very  real teens - struggling with who they are and with their family  and who and what is their sense of authority. In the course of the  story, they learn and grow. Yes,  they end up sometimes  saving the day, but not in a trite way - when they save the day it is  because  they have grown past a fear, or grown into a  sense of confidence in their own self, and taken a big  psychological chance by expressing their authority, and that makes the  situation real to the reader,  and also shows the  reader, especially the children readers for whom the book is intended, that  what  they are experiencing in their lives is real, and  scary, and sometimes terrible, but that they can grow  beyond it, and they can have hope that they will go beyond who they are  now. Giving youth a sense  of hope, and a sense that  they are smart enough and good enough to make it in the world, and also  showing them they will learn and grow into adulthood is so  important, and books like this are great  helpers.<br />  Although he book is written with a vocabularly and a  sentence structure geared toward younger  readers, the  author does not &quot;dumb down&quot; to youth level, which is great. It's  an awfully quick read  for an adult, quicker even than  Harry Potter prose, but for a youth, it's gotta be just about right -  long enough to challenge, not so long that the child reader  will get bogged down in detail and  become completely  lost in the narrative.<br />  I also appreciate the reality  of it. Some reviewers have commented that it's maybe a little too realistic  or grim or dark, but come on people - it's life. I'm  glad my parents didn't feel the need to &quot;protect&quot;  me, leaving me to grow into a functional adult human being. I'm glad  Lerangis had the courage to  include the scene of a man  having his gangrenous feet axed off and of dogs dying in the cold, etc.  Kids aren't stupid, and exposing them to real world issues  isn't going to turn them into psychotics - it  will  turn them into normal adults who understand that a lot of stuff is  dangerous, and who fear things  realistically. Not that  we need to add extra-realistic stuff to shock our kids, but we can't  sugarcoat  the world for them, either. People who are  frostbit get their parts cut off. Dogs and people die in the  cold. Ships get smashed by ice. People fall overboard. Sometimes  people walk off into the snow,  and are never seen  again.<br />  Two last quick notes: I am glad that Lerangis  popped in some Greek from the Greek character. Not  in  a way that the reader will have to know it to understand the story, but it  adds a bit more realism,  and I think showing the young  English reader some foreign words is helpful to broaden their  horizons. I am also glad that he included a few literature  references - he mentions the teen characters  reading  Jack London and some other actually existing meat-world writings, which  will hopefully drive  the reader to the library or  bookstore. What a great (perhaps sneaky?) way to expose young  readers to our great literature. The teen characters are also shown  reading other books in order to  learn about  Antarctica, how to navigate, and to learn other things they will need for  the trip.<br />  Lerangis' last pages in the book are a  rarity: a bibliography (in a child's book!) and a list of  web-page resources about Antarctica and about the original adventurers  who first set foot on it's icy  fields of blowing  death.<br />  A great book, certainly appropriate for  younger readers. I'm very impressed, and will be passing this  on to my young relatives. (great job, Peter!)that the reader will have to know it to understand the story, but it  adds a bit more realism,                      and I think showing the young  English reader some foreign words is helpful to broaden their                       horizons. I am also glad that he included a few literature  references - he mentions the teen characters                      reading  Jack London and some other actually existing meat-world writings, which  will hopefully drive                      the reader to the library or  bookstore. What a great (perhaps sneaky?) way to expose young                       readers to our great literature. The teen characters are also shown  reading other books in order to                      learn about  Antarctica, how to navigate, and to learn other things they will need for  the trip.<br />                     Lerangis' last pages in the book are a  rarity: a bibliography (in a child's book!) and a list of                       web-page resources about Antarctica and about the original adventurers  who first set foot on it's icy                      fields of blowing  death.<br />                     A great book, certainly appropriate for  younger readers. I'm very impressed, and will be passing this                       on to my young relatives. (great job, Peter!)	2000-08-23
US	52931861	R2NO4JS1PB6OL8	0843941138	354332719	Pride of Tyson	Books	4	0	0	N	N	A very subtle atypical western	I say atypical in the sense that this isn't a violent, gun-slinging western.  Of course, within the whole genre, few stories actually are real  violent gun-slingers, but for some reason people tend to think that a  &quot;good western&quot; is a Clint Eastwood kind of constant-killing  story.  Admittedly, when I read westerns, that's actually what I prefer - a  real frontier justice,  shoot-them-until-they're-dead-and-then-kill-them-some-more knid of story,  and I bought this book thinking it would be the same. Why did I think so?  Becaause of the blurb on the back cover. Yes it has violence, and some  gunslinging, but golly, it's not the most important part of the story, and,  also by golly, I really, really liked it anyway.<br />It's a pretty darn good  story of a &quot;wild west&quot; that is in process of being tamed - the  story centers around the main character who is an engineer in charge of  building a damn, and the labor struggles he has with the mexican laborers,  and, how could it be otherwise? the struggles he has with the woman he  really loves who happens to be the sister of a rich boy the main character  met many years before who is now working for the main character as a common  laborer because he is eschewing his rich, east-coast upbringing in order to  discover what it is to be a man.<br />Now, in the realm of books about  what-it-means-to-be-a-man, this is not one of the highest literary  achievements, but it does pretty darn well, and I'm quite impressed with  it.<br />I'm prety in comparison with the generation that grew up with Max  Brand, too, but I loved reading the book.  I was compelled to keep turning  pages because I liked the characters, and because the story was very  interesting and written well enough. It is not a book with  &quot;impressive&quot; writing skills (i.e., exciting metaphors, similes,  allusions, symbolism), but it is an exciting read.  It is very close to  being great, but doesn't quite make it, and I say that because the author,  while writing very well, is not writing in what I would call an  &quot;artistic&quot; way - a way that makes us rethink who we are as  people, as individuals, etc., and he does not write in a way that excites  us with his creative and original use of words - because he isn't creative  or original. Brand is still awfully darn compellnig, though, as an author,  and this book is recommended, even to those who (like me) actually prefer  our westerns to be full of shooting, killing, violence, and black-and-white  senses of justice.author,  while writing very well, is not writing in what I would call an  &quot;artistic&quot; way - a way that makes us rethink who we are as  people, as individuals, etc., and he does not write in a way that excites  us with his creative and original use of words - because he isn't creative  or original. Brand is still awfully darn compellnig, though, as an author,  and this book is recommended, even to those who (like me) actually prefer  our westerns to be full of shooting, killing, violence, and black-and-white  senses of justice.	2000-08-17
US	52931861	R2G6THDCLQPE8D	0439163870	363165838	Antarctica: Journey to the Pole (Antartica, 1)	Books	5	10	10	N	Y	Fantastic teen literature	And also an awful lot of fun for this adult!<br />Exactly the kind of story I loved as a child, and still love now - kids out in the adult-world braving  themselves against nature and most importantly, against their own fears and  insecurities. The story is, of course, exciting - a trip to Antarctica in  1909 when such trips were not so easy.  The author's realistic use of  marine language, situations, and technology of the time adds to the  authenticity of the story.<br />What I appreciate so much about it, and what  always drew me in as a child to stories like these, is that the youth in  the story are not just helpless ignorant children, nor are they brainy  super-kids that never seem to be wrong. They are very real teens -  struggling with who they are and with their family and who and what is  their sense of authority.  In the course of the story, they learn and grow.  Yes, they end up sometimes saving the day, but not in a trite way - when  they save the day it is because they have grown past a fear, or grown into  a sense of confidence in their own self, and taken a big psychological  chance by expressing their authority, and that makes the situation real to  the reader, and also shows the reader, especially the children readers for  whom the book is intended, that what they are experiencing in their lives  is real, and scary, and sometimes terrible, but that they can grow beyond  it, and they can have hope that they will go beyond who they are now.  Giving youth a sense of hope, and a sense that they are smart enough and  good enough to make it in the world, and also showing them they will learn  and grow into adulthood is so important, and books like this are great  helpers.<br />Although he book is written with a vocabularly and a sentence  structure geared toward younger readers, the author does not &quot;dumb  down&quot; to youth level, which is great. It's an awfully quick read for  an adult, quicker even than Harry Potter prose, but for a youth, it's gotta  be just about right - long enough to challenge, not so long that the child  reader will get bogged down in detail and become completely lost in the  narrative.<br />I also appreciate the reality of it. Some reviewers have  commented that it's maybe a little too realistic or grim or dark, but come  on people - it's life. I'm glad my parents didn't feel the need to  &quot;protect&quot; me, leaving me to grow into a functional adult human  being. I'm glad Lerangis had the courage to include the scene of a man  having his gangrenous feet axed off and of dogs dying in the cold, etc.  Kids aren't stupid, and exposing them to real world issues isn't going to  turn them into psychotics - it will turn them into normal adults who  understand that a lot of stuff is dangerous, and who fear things  realistically. Not that we need to add extra-realistic stuff to shock our  kids, but we can't sugarcoat the world for them, either.  People who are  frostbit get their parts cut off. Dogs and people die in the cold. Ships  get smashed by ice. People fall overboard. Sometimes people walk off into  the snow, and are never seen again.<br />Two last quick notes:  I am glad that  Lerangis popped in some Greek from the Greek character. Not in a way that  the reader will have to know it to understand the story, but it adds a bit  more realism, and I think showing the young English reader some foreign  words is helpful to broaden their horizons. I am also glad that he included  a few literature references - he mentions the teen characters reading Jack  London and some other actually existing meat-world writings, which will  hopefully drive the reader to the library or bookstore. What a great  (perhaps sneaky?) way to expose young readers to our great literature. The  teen characters are also shown reading other books in order to learn about  Antarctica, how to navigate, and to learn other things they will need for  the trip.<br />Lerangis' last pages in the book are a rarity: a bibliography  (in a child's book!) and a list of web-page resources about Antarctica and  about the original adventurers who first set foot on it's icy fields of  blowing death.<br />A great book, certainly appropriate for younger readers.  I'm very impressed, and will be passing this on to my young relatives.  (great job, Peter!)graphy  (in a child's book!) and a list of web-page resources about Antarctica and  about the original adventurers who first set foot on it's icy fields of  blowing death.<br />A great book, certainly appropriate for younger readers.  I'm very impressed, and will be passing this on to my young relatives.   (great job, Peter!)	2000-08-17
US	52931861	R2RMWWOX2SOJ7F	0966039599	172752418	Images of Hawaii's Ancient Hula: Hula Kahiko--Fine Art Photography	Books	5	14	15	N	N	Beautiful, stunning photographs	Kim Taylor Reece is truly a master of the photographic form.  Not just in capturing hula in it's glory, but in photography itself.  Beautiful work,  perfectly framed, perfectly composed photos. Dance photography is extremely  rough stuff - trying to capture a time-, movement-, and space-based art  into a static, two-dimensional medium is almost folly, but Kim has an  amazing ability to capture the movement and depth of the movement in a way  that few photographers can - you'll truly feel that the subjects are, in  fact, moving, and that's what dance is all about. I loved going to his  gallery on Oahu when I lived there, to poke around at the rather expensive  (but worth it) photographs, to speak with Rocky (the beautiful and  extremely welcoming woman in so many of these photos), and Kim (who is also  extremely nice and more than willing to talk about his artwork).  For those  who cannot afford a couple hundred dollars per photograph, this book is  your best option. It's solidly put together, nice thick serious paper,  excellent reproduction of the photos, and it is a wonderful collection of  Kim's different styles. The book is beautiful, and the photographs are  beautiful.  Of course, to truly experience Kim's photos, you must visit his  gallery, or at least find a way to see the images in full-size:  8&quot;x10&quot; and greater, but this book does justice to the  photography.	2000-08-10
US	52931861	R9WGYIORM6OM	0804815631	172421169	Speak Japanese today: A Self-Study Program for Learning Everyday Japanese (Tuttle Language Library)	Books	5	21	21	N	Y	Wonderful for a really quick entry into basic Japanese	For a little book, this one packs a lot in.  And thankfully, unlike foreign language textbooks I have suffered under, this one explains in a non-technical methodology how the language (basically) works.  It is not  very in-depth, mind you, but the basics are put right up front in an  understandable and workable way, so the reader can make use of it. Will you  be parsing sentences and conjugating verbs after reading this one? No, but  you'll be able to speak Japanese to get by, and even a little beyond  getting by.  This is one of the best foreign language books I have come  across in terms of organizing material, explaining, and making sense out of  it all, and getting one to be speaking the language in a minimal amount of  time without a maximal amount of theory to wade through.	2000-07-21
US	52931861	R1YMM5SAKO1HU2	0451200861	797779175	I Ain't Got Time to Bleed: Reworking the Body Politic from the Bottom up	Books	5	12	12	N	N	Exciting and articulate	While I am a fan of Jesse, and support his governorship of Minnesota, I'm not clouding my review with my agreement with what he says.<br />This is a book by a politician (albeit not a professional one) espousing his views on  many facets of political (and therefore social) life.  Jesse is very  articulate in what he believes, and says it well here.  He is consistent  and clear - thus gaining him 5 stars for this book. You will definitely  know what he thinks, and what he is doing politically, after reading this  book.<br />I also appreciate his willingness to replay his life - what brought  him to where he is, and especially I appreciate his candor and his honesty  about even the not-so-glamorous things he has done.  He makes no apologies  for what he has done or for what he believes, which is a very welcome way  for a politician to write.  His book would benefit from more exposition,  but he covers an awful lot of ground here, and as he often says, he just  doesn't have the space to go into great detail about everything. Hopefully  he will continue to write, and will concentrate on more specific items in  those writings.  But of course, one can also watch his governorship to  learn more about the specifics, too.<br />It is unfortunate that he gets the  bad press he does - he is one of few honest politicians out there.  Whether  you agree with him or not, at least he tells us what he thinks and believes  about the many important things he is doing as governor.	2000-07-14
US	52931861	R15DJAK91N5RYC	0345348664	150650131	The Illearth War: The Chronicles of Thomas Covenant the Unbeliever, Book Two	Books	1	10	21	N	N	More incredible story written amazingly pedantically	I agree with what a lot of the other reviewers say - Thomas Covenant is a great anti-hero.  This whole series is filled with fantastic philosophical insight leading one to think about matters of life and death, futility and  hopefulness, and whether it is all worth it.  In that respect, this series  is close to being great, classic literature.  It just doesn't make it,  though, on two counts. One, the characters aren't quite compelling enough  to really get one to react to them intellectually, morally, emotionally,  etc., even though it is quite exciting that a writer would make the lead  character (Covenant) a leper.  Secondly, and this is my biggest problem  with the series, is that it is simply very poorly written. I read it in  high school, I read it in college, I read it in seminary when I was 30.  I  really wanted to give the series a chance, since my friends liked it so  much, and I felt it deserved an attempt at different growth stages in my  life. But I never enjoyed reading it, and I won't try anymore. It's not  disappointing in the way of a popular mass-market book, because one doesn't  expect anything from one of those except unintelligent and hollow  entertainment and escapism. Donaldson created a world of amazing creativity  and depth, laden with cool places and people and cultures, all quite well  thought out - more so than the vast majority of fantasy-lands. The  disappointment comes because a book about a leper facing his life,  futility, hopelessness, narcissism, and general lack of compassion or  interest in himself or anyone else could have been a deep, meaningful  exploration forcing one to pause and take stock of one's own life and  society (the goal of all true literature).  Covenant the character could  have been a brilliant (and not clich&eacute;) anti-hero. Donaldson has given us  something that could have been that, but he fails to give it to us, and one  is left feeling like the sickly parent who has spent the week's food money  on snake-oil and finally realized what it really is - a bottle with an  empty promise. Unfortunately, the story is simply not written in a  compelling way.  I didn't care about the characters, the dialogue felt  unreal, the prose drones on and on, and I never felt bad setting the book  down.  In fact I really forced my way to the end of the third book, simply  as an act of self-will to see if I could do it.  Please note that I am  *not* some doofus who thinks a book without constant action is boring - I  love Joyce, German writing, Wagner operas and Philip Glass music, so it's  not that I can't appreciate long, slow movement.  I do like it to be  compelling, though.<br />In terms of importance in the fantasy genre, this  is a must-have series because it is a foundational, common-knowledge series  that all fantasy buffs should be familiar with. So I give it one star, but  I tell you to read it anyway.d finally realized what it really is - a bottle with an  empty promise. Unfortunately, the story is simply not written in a  compelling way.  I didn't care about the characters, the dialogue felt  unreal, the prose drones on and on, and I never felt bad setting the book  down.  In fact I really forced my way to the end of the third book, simply  as an act of self-will to see if I could do it.  Please note that I am  *not* some doofus who thinks a book without constant action is boring - I  love Joyce, German writing, Wagner operas and Philip Glass music, so it's  not that I can't appreciate long, slow movement.  I do like it to be  compelling, though.  <br />In terms of importance in the fantasy genre, this  is a must-have series because it is a foundational, common-knowledge series  that all fantasy buffs should be familiar with. So I give it one star, but  I tell you to read it anyway.	2000-07-13
US	52931861	R2RSQVGJJ4NCG9	0345348672	150650131	The Power That Preserves (The Chronicles of Thomas Covenant the Unbeliever, Book 3)	Books	1	4	19	N	N	The last - thankfully - in a painfully unreadable series	Of the three books in this series, this was the most difficult for me to force my way through.<br />I agree with what a lot of the other reviewers say - Thomas Covenant is a great anti-hero.  This whole series is filled with  fantastic philosophical insight leading one to think about matters of life  and death, futility and hopefulness, and whether it is all worth it.  In  that respect, this series is close to being great, classic literature.  It  just doesn't make it, though, on two counts. One, the characters aren't  quite compelling enough to really get one to react to them intellectually,  morally, emotionally, etc., even though it is quite exciting that a writer  would make the lead character (Covenant) a leper.  Secondly, and this is my  biggest problem with the series, is that it is simply very poorly written.  I read it in high school, I read it in college, I read it in seminary when  I was 30.  I really wanted to give the series a chance, since my friends  liked it so much, and I felt it deserved an attempt at different growth  stages in my life. But I never enjoyed reading it, and I won't try anymore.  It's not disappointing in the way of a popular mass-market book, because  one doesn't expect anything from one of those except unintelligent and  hollow entertainment and escapism. Donaldson created a world of amazing  creativity and depth, laden with cool places and people and cultures, all  quite well thought out - more so than the vast majority of fantasy-lands.  The disappointment comes because a book about a leper facing his life,  futility, hopelessness, narcissism, and general lack of compassion or  interest in himself or anyone else could have been a deep, meaningful  exploration forcing one to pause and take stock of one's own life and  society (the goal of all true literature).  Covenant the character could  have been a brilliant (and not clich&eacute;) anti-hero. Donaldson has given us  something that could have been that, but he fails to give it to us, and one  is left feeling like the sickly parent who has spent the week's food money  on snake-oil and finally realized what it really is - a bottle with an  empty promise. Unfortunately, the story is simply not written in a  compelling way.  I didn't care about the characters, the dialogue felt  unreal, the prose drones on and on, and I never felt bad setting the book  down.  In fact I really forced my way to the end of the third book, simply  as an act of self-will to see if I could do it.  Please note that I am  *not* some doofus who thinks a book without constant action is boring - I  love Joyce, German writing, Wagner operas and Philip Glass music, so it's  not that I can't appreciate long, slow movement.  I do like it to be  compelling, though.  In terms of importance in the fantasy genre, this is  a must-have series because it is a foundational, common-knowledge series  that all fantasy buffs should be familiar with. So I give it one star, but  I tell you to read it anyway.and one  is left feeling like the sickly parent who has spent the week's food money  on snake-oil and finally realized what it really is - a bottle with an  empty promise. Unfortunately, the story is simply not written in a  compelling way.  I didn't care about the characters, the dialogue felt  unreal, the prose drones on and on, and I never felt bad setting the book  down.  In fact I really forced my way to the end of the third book, simply  as an act of self-will to see if I could do it.  Please note that I am  *not* some doofus who thinks a book without constant action is boring - I  love Joyce, German writing, Wagner operas and Philip Glass music, so it's  not that I can't appreciate long, slow movement.  I do like it to be  compelling, though.   In terms of importance in the fantasy genre, this is  a must-have series because it is a foundational, common-knowledge series  that all fantasy buffs should be familiar with. So I give it one star, but  I tell you to read it anyway.	2000-07-13
US	52931861	R33RNIGHHS7IO4	0439139597	667539744	Harry Potter And The Goblet Of Fire (Book 4)	Books	5	1	2	N	Y	Impressively, every book is better than the previous	More brilliant, albeit simple, writing from Rowling.  By simple meaning it's not pretentiously overwritten like many of the books that NPR likes to highlight, but not simple like a meaningless romance novel or other such  trite entertainment.  Although I am an adult, I love these books, and can  read them over and over, especially this one, which is very true to the  style formed in the first book, but also different in that the plot writing  is not stuck in a formulaic system like some book series can get into,  especially many children's books series. If I were a small child, this is  absolutely what I would be looking for, and what I did look for as a child  - I read Asimov's Three Adventurers, Encyclopedia Brown, and other  challenging, brain-based children's fiction that also have the great  adventure and children-getting-the-upper-hand-over-the-adults scenarios  that can make a child feel less helpless, and give one some hope.  Harry  Potter has all that, and has a lot of it.  I can't recommend the series  enough, for adults and for youth.  I am so happy that for once a super  popular book is actually something that is well-written and not an insult  to the intelligence and one's aesthetic sensability - I am so amazed at  this, because so few people seem to ever exhibit any intelligence or  aesthetic sensibility, that the cynic in me would assume that this series  would have failed on the first book for being not-stupid-enough for the  mass audience.  Thank God something clicked in people's heads that they are  willing to explore and challenge themselves a little bit more beyond  insipid love stories and pointless and poorly written action/adventure  books.<br />Three cheers for Harry Potter!	2000-07-13
US	52931861	R1FTOIM2DGX0DI	0714838179	809920659	Minimum - Mini Edition (Phaidon Miniature Editions)	Books	4	12	12	N	N	Well-done look at minimal architecture and use of space	For anyone interested in what space (not outer-space, but the space we live in) could look like if we'd but show the courage to get rid of trinkets, bric-a-brac, and other clutter, this is the perfect book.  And  for those who already embrace the simplicity of minimalism, this is a  wonderful picture book of great minimalist spaces, and other flowing,  graceful geometries. It is not a textbook or text-based lesson on  minimalism, but instead a visual guide - nearly every page is a picture of  a minimalist scene. The photography and the reproduction are done amazingly  well, and the subjects chosen are varied and represent many forms of  minimalist thinking/viewing. It's printed on great quality paper with a  nice binding and cover. But, I can  give it only 4 stars because, as other  reviewer mentioned, Pawson adds lots of unnecessary (and unhelpful and  inappropriately leading) captioning.  The book is a slick little well-made  art-piece itself, too.	2000-06-30
US	52931861	R6C9HFEN1WI43	0345403959	388609856	Belgarath the Sorcerer (The Belgariad & The Malloreon)	Books	5	5	7	N	N	Great coda to the whole series	The Belgeriad and Mallorean series are my favorite pieces of fantasy literature - I've read them a couple times, and they are always super enjoyable, and always force me to stay up late reading them because I can't  stop, even though I know what's going to happen.<br />This book (and Polgara)  is a wonderful cap to the whole series, going all way back in time.  Although much of it is a repeat of what was in the other books, this is  wonderful reading since it is all from the perspective of Belgarath, alive  these last 7,000 years, and he offers many, many new insights to the events  of the books. It's fascinating: construct a whole series with the  omniscient narrator, and then write two more books going over the whole  thing again, but from the point of views of two characters in the series.  Surprisingly, it not only works, it works well, and it's quite compelling  reading.  And Eddings writes convincingly enough to make one think it  really *is* Belgarath who has written this.<br />Absolutely excellent reading,  but of course, you really do have to read the first ten books first. And I  can't recommend this series enough. Certainly the best multi-volume fantasy  series that has come out (and yes, I am apostate by regarding this higher  than Lord of the Rings, but so be it).	2000-06-29
US	52931861	R2JXIQITH7DS22	0345380118	796710884	Departures	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Great alternate history short story writing	Turtledove is one of few writers in the genre of science-fiction and fantasy who write compelling short stories, and this book is full of great ones.  His knowledge of and respect for history, evident in these pages,  leads to stories that are historically plausible alternate happenings  (excepting, of course, the ones with vampires, etc. :-). His historicity  makes these stories even more wonderful to read, knowing that &quot;it  could have been&quot;, and it leads the reader to realize and spend  thought-time on just how much of history is decided by very small events  and chance, and how so much of what we know and who we are today might not  have been if seemingly insignificant things hadn't happened (or had  happened) even thousands of years ago.<br />I would receommend this book to  anyone who is interested in history, science-fiction, gothic horror, or  fantasy --&gt; it will appeal to all. I also recommend it to anyone who  enjoys literature (of whatever genre) that causes one to pause and think  and see things a little bit differently after reading it.	2000-06-29
US	52931861	R36TWSS9FHUVMZ	0345422554	369510298	Polgara the Sorceress (Malloreon)	Books	5	20	23	N	Y	Fantastic commentary on the events of the series	The Belgeriad and Mallorean series are my favorite pieces of fantasy literature - I've read them a couple times, and they are always super enjoyable, and always force me to stay up late reading them because I can't  stop, even though I know what's going to happen.<br />This book (and  Belgarath) is a wonderful cap to the whole series, going all way back in  time.  Although much of it is a repeat of what was in the other books, this  is wonderful reading since it is all from the perspective of Polgara,  daughter of Belgarath, alive the last 5,000 years. Polgara offers many,  many new insights to the events of the books. It's fascinating: construct a  whole series with the omniscient narrator, and then write two more books  going over the whole thing again, but from the point of views of two  characters in the series. Surprisingly, it not only works, it works well,  and it's quite compelling reading.  And Eddings writes convincingly enough  to make one think it really *is* Polgara who has written this.<br />Absolutely  excellent reading, but of course, you really do have to read the first ten  books first. And I can't recommend this series enough. Certainly the best  multi-volume fantasy series that has come out (and yes, I am apostate by  regarding this higher than Lord of the Rings, but so be it).	2000-06-29
US	52931861	RICSRNVTSXVUQ	0345348656	150650131	Lord Foul's Bane (The Chronicles of Thomas Covenant the Unbeliever, Book 1)	Books	1	25	40	N	N	I must be honest - it is not well written	I agree with what a lot of the other reviewers say - Thomas Covenant is a great anti-hero, and the whole series is filled with fantastic philosophical insight that leads one to think. In that respect, this series  is close to being great, classic literature.  It just doesn't make it,  though, on two counts.  One, the characters aren't quite compelling enough  to really get one to react to them intellectually, morally, emotionally,  etc. Secondly, and this is my biggest problem with the series, is that it  is simply very poorly written. I read it in high school, I read it in  college, I read it in seminary when I was 30 - I felt the book deserved an  attempt at different growth stages in my life - but never liked it, and I  won't try anymore. The story is not written in a compelling way, I didn't  care about the characters, the dialogue felt unreal, it drones on and on,  it never bothered me to set the book down - in fact I really forced my way  through to the end, simply as an act of self-will to see if I could do it  (and I love Joyce and German writing, and Wagner operas, so it's not that I  don't like long, slow movement - but it should be interesting).<br />Not to  say it isn't a great story - it's wonderful. But it's a poorly executed  story, and that cost it all the stars.<br />In terms of its importance in the  fantasy genre, this is a very important series to read because it is a  foundational, common knowledge series that all fantasy buffs should be  familiar with. So I give it one star, but I tell you to read it anyway.	2000-06-29
US	52931861	RORIIW1GH0NR0	0812550706	401439625	Ender's Game (The Ender Quintet)	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Great sci-fi, great literature, philosophically meaty	Ender's Game is a brilliant piece that works like great literature - for people who don't want to intellectualize, it's an exciting gripping rip-roaring easy-to-follow adventure story of a precocious child going to  war in space.  For the people who like to intellectualize and think about  what they read, it is filled with much meat over which to wax philosophic,  in regards to the ethics and morality of total warfare, what it means to  defeat an opponent, what is sacrifice-able in terms of preserving a society  (such as childhood innocence), what are the real ethical boundaries of  preparing and training for war, etc. Like Shakespeare, the book is genius  because anyone can enjoy it no matter how &quot;deep&quot; they wish to dig  into it, or if they desire to dig into it at all.  Card's prosody is also  that rare kind that truly keeps one turning pages, riveted to the  magnificent story.	2000-06-28
US	52931861	R2L3KCF71OHZ8U	0394532643	319448537	The Way to Cook	Books	5	68	68	N	N	It's been my cooking bible since it was published	I bought this book when it was first published (and it cost me almost 10 hours of wages), and of all the cookbooks I own (maybe 40 or so), this is the one I use the most. Even when I moved to Hawaii for a short-term  internship, I used precious luggage and weight restriction space to take  this heavy book with me. Why? Not just because it has great recipes, but  because it is just what the title says - a book about how to cook (at  least, how to cook Northern European).  I don't go to it very often for  specific recipes (although her French Onion Soup is fantastic), but to see  how to do something in general - like, how to make a cream sauce, how to  make a chowder base, how to clean mussels, how to clean fowl, etc. If you  master this book, you will have mastered the theory of (Northern European)  cooking, and will no longer be tied down trying exactly to reproduce a  recipe in one of countless thousands of generic cookbooks. You will have  courage to experiment, because you'll know what the ingredients are doing  and how to handle them - you will, in fact, become your own recipe inventor  and creative, tasteful, confident cook that you and your family (and  friends!) will appreciate. This is, really, the proper model for what  cookbooks should be, and I wish someone would do something similar for  other cuisines (and if they have, send me an email about it!).	2000-06-28
US	52931861	R339UJ901DF5D9	0312152485	834170517	The Cocktail: The Influence of Spirits on the American Psyche	Books	2	1	4	N	Y	Great subway reading	While this book is interesting to read, written in a prose style that keeps one reading, and flows logically through a wonderful historical framework, I felt at the end of every chapter that the author should have  done a more thorough job. He should have developed his theses more,  provided more depth to his topics, and offered information that is less  general and more useful. This is an excellent introduction to the history  of cocktails and drinking in the United States, but as a useful research  tool, &quot;The Cocktail&quot; is of little value. But, as a strong point,  I doubt that there are historical errors in the book - Lanza did do some  research, that much is certain. But I still have the inclination that Lanza  wanted to get another book in print without having to strain too hard  writing it. I give this book two stars under the assumption that two stars  means &quot;okay reading for the subway&quot;, and one star ratings are  solely for romance novels.	2000-06-02
US	52931861	R30XD92HZG6OBN	1573220590	499497873	The Book of Women's Sermons: Hearing God in Each Other's Voices	Books	4	11	11	N	Y	Important collection of sermons by some leading women	I don't know what the reviewer 'a reader' from august is thinking - perhaps he just adds that particular comment to every religious book he can find. This sermon collection is theologically very, very far from the 700  club mentality. I don't think Pat Robertson would let women preach this  way, least ways not lesbian women, and especially not Jewish women. This  collection has some wonderful, wonderful gems of sermons, especially by the  Jewish women, and Annie Ruth Powell,  Lundblat, and some others. It also  has some sermons that are fairly weak in terms of logic, relevancy, use of  Scripture, or ability to speak to people (although they must have spoken to  someone). I don't see God living in some of these sermons, nor the  liberating truth of God's message coming through - even for these  'inclusive' women, their theology can be quite narrow and exclusive. But,  the majority of the sermons are well-done, and all the sermons are  important to read for anyone who wants to know what is happening in the  theological world of liberal Christianity (which is absolutely not the  Murdoch and Robertson world), since the liberal Christian world gets very  little media play. If you are sickened by televangelists, male-dominated  churches, anti-gay bigotry in the church, etc., you should read these. And  if you believe have no place in the pulpit, you especially should read  these and take them to heart, because God speaks quite eloquently and  forcefully through these pages, and it is important to realize that the  Spirit can, does, and will work through whoever it chooses, not just men.	1999-12-10
