US	52937746	R3FDHIH3YFYXZ0	0807282693	368067763	Peppermints in the Parlor	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Angela Lansbury is the VERY BEST narrator for a mystery!!!!!	It is hard to overstate how much excitement Angela Lansbury brings to the reading of this mystery book for children.  Suffice it to say that at age 52 I enjoyed listening to it as much as my daughter, and would have purchased twenty more had they been available.  The text by Barbara Brooks Wallace is also very well done, and very accessible for children's vocabulary while remaining exciting enough for an adult to enjoy without becoming bored.  I highly recommend both the book and the audiobook for parents of both good readers and readers who need something a little spicier to get them interested and involved in the story.  It concerns a young girl who has lost her parents and goes to live with an aunt in San Francisco.  The trials and tribulations to which Emily Lucock is subject make up the the plot of the story, but the author is able to build both mystery and suspense into the telling.  The audiobook format is especially terrific because of Lansbury's wonderful technique for building drama and suspense.	2004-01-02
US	52937746	RSV7PIM4DM7E3	1565115392	378345448	Secret Life of Bees	Books	5	0	0	N	N	One of the best audiobooks for adults I have ever heard!	Even six months after listening to this audiobook the pleasure of that listening experience remains with me.<br />It didn't surprise me to later realize that this reader, Jenna Lamia, also narrated one of my favorite children's audiobooks which I had heard with my daughter while driving in the car together last summer, [Hope Was Here, by Joan Bauer].<br />This particular story, by Sue Monk Kidd, was touching without being maudlin, and Lamia's reading truly drew in the listener from the very first moment.  It's the story of an adolescent girl named Lily who lives on a peach farm in the South with only her father and a black woman named Rosaleen, who has been taking care of Lily since the death of the child's mother ten years before.  Lily's father seems somewhat brutal and unsympathetic, and offers little comfort to the lonely child.<br />When Rosaleen, who provides the only warmth in her life, gets into trouble defending her right to vote Lily joins her in leaving home.  They flee with only a souvenir which once belonged to Lily's mother as a clue to where they are heading.  This momento helps lead Lily and Rosaleen to learning more about what happened on the afternoon of Lily's mother's death.  Lily's memory of the day her mother died is confused and conflicted, and she leaves hoping both to protect Rosaleen as well as to find out more about her mother.  They also meet a very interesting family of sisters whose lives on a bee farm take up a significant part of the story.<br />Lamia's reading is both innocent and tender, and reflects a profound understanding of Lily and of the South before the sixties and the Civil Rights movement which is contemporaneous with this story.  The relationship between Lily and Rosaleen is also examined at length, and many sensitive emotional and social issues neglected by the 'politics' of history are illuminated by the tale.<br />Both the story and the reading draw the reader into the era and the characters in a way that only fiction can create a bond of identification with the reader.  ALthough I am sure the book is a wonderful story on its own, I can't help but believe it has been greatly enhanced by the voice of Jenny Lamia.tion can create a bond of identification with the reader.  ALthough I am sure the book is a wonderful story on its own, I can't help but believe it has been greatly enhanced by the voice of Jenny Lamia.	2003-12-30
US	52937746	R2Q8HV5E2Z657T	0525947647	857217799	Lies and the Lying Liars Who Tell Them	Books	5	3	8	N	Y	VERY FUNNY BOOK THAT TURNS THE TABLES ON THE BLOWHARDS	If you sometimes dream of doing Bill O'Reilly TO Bill O'Reilly, or have trouble disengaging yourself from your fantasies of having said EXACTLY the RIGHT THING to the RIGHT WING blockhead who sits next to you at work industriously digging a third hole in his nose, this is DEFINITELY the book for you.  I laughed out loud, called friends, read passages over the phone, and just generally felt like the world was looking up again after years of thinking all the other liberals were in hiding.  This book makes you want to go round up a dozen others like you and take back our country from the LIARs and the LYING LIARS who tell LIES.  Especially from Ann, you sure throw around slander and treason accusations a lot for someone recovering from a lobotomy Coulter whose discourse sounds like wicked curses from frightening story books you were terrified by as a child.  Does anything nice or civil ever come out of her mouth--I keep waiting for the reptiles and amphibians to go back in!  Thank you AL Franken for taking these dishonest and disrespectful people on and making it clear that if they and when they lie we will call them liars and challenge their lies.	2003-10-10
US	52937746	R1VIPHON3T9KOO	1894210484	642807646	Song of the Unicorn: A Merlin Tale	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Beautiful story, excellent narration, terrific music!!	This may be my daughter's favorite storytape after years and years of listening to every new tape published.  We had to buy the CD after wearing out the audiotape.  Jeremy Irons' voice is both soothing and rich, the music is delightful and magical, and the story could fascinate any child between 5 and fifty (or more!!)  My daughter particularly loves to listen to this musical tale with the lights out before going to sleep!<br />I highly recommend this moving tale with its delicate music and musical themes.	2002-09-15
US	52937746	R32NWWATPMHHUH	0807207349	589363421	The Great Brain	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Feed your brain and your kids'	This is a review of the audiotapes from Listening Library of \\"the Great Brain\\" and \\"More of the Great Brain\\".  <br />First, I don't agree with some of the reviews that suggest books today like Harry Potter for kids are trash.  This series is truly fantastic, but so it Harry Potter.  You don't have to hate one to like the other.<br />Second, the audiotapes for this series are terrific, and you can play the tapes and listen as a whole family as these stories are just as fascinating for adults as they are for children.<br />Although the stories recount the childhood of a boy almost a hundred years ago, the perspective in which they are told is a very modern one, and cannot be faulted for language or accessibility or naivete in the way that many of our childhood favorites (if like me, you grew up during the 1950s) could be criticized today by uninterested children.  Additionally, the stories offer the perspective for children brought up in a world of television and computer screens how people amused themselves before radio and television handicapped childrens' imaginations and made them dependent upon electronics for amusement.<br />The moral aspect of the stories is an additional attraction to the sheer delight of the tales themselves.  I was so pleased to hear the moral sophistication of the parental attitudes in this tape as I listened along with my daughter--there was nothing except the community's tolerance of physical punishment that was unacceptable to me, and even that punishment was neither wholeheartedly accepted by the parents in the story, nor was it portrayed in a way that made it sound like the author was nostalgic for the days when parents and teachers had total authority and whipped their kids.  In fact, one child's leg has to be amputated in the story, and the author makes it very clear that it was the child's fear of a whipping from his parents that was responsible for keeping the child from reporting the injury until it became infected.<br />We listento audiotapes in the car on a regular basis, and often after dinner while doing puzzles or knitting or doing dishes,etc.  This activity allows us to be together as a family in the evening and to have readings in common to discuss together as well.  These particular stories lend themselves well to family discussions because many issues raised by the children's behavior--as well as that of the adults in the stories--remain morally relevant.   The differences in the ways people lived and their access to technology is also of great interest to kids and adults alike.  For example, the family had a telephone but only got a \\"water closet\\" in the first of the stories that is told about the Fitzgerald family growing up non-Mormon in Mormon Utah.<br />I highly recommend both sets of audiotapes, as well as, of course the books.	2002-09-15
US	52937746	R6LZNOZVQS8VZ	0618059466	301023145	Human Stain	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Audiobook review	The audiobook version of this book is not without flaws, but the majority of the reading done by Arliss Howard is excellent.  <br />Deborah Winger's reading, though only a small part of the audiotext, is not up to the level demanded by such a wonderful book.  This is especially the case when contrasted with the powerful and effective reading by Arliss Howard.<br />For example, the portrayal of one of the more important secondary characters in the book, a French woman whose self-centered and self-righteous rantings are critical to the story's plot, is crucified by Winger's awkward and completely uneducated pronunciation of the French vocabulary used in the text.  <br />Although I am not familiar enough with how audiobooks are produced to know what kinds of editing goes on behind the scenes, I still find it hard to believe that no one on the production end supervised the narration or had someone with some knowledge or understanding of French to provide &quot;tutoring&quot; or pronunciation assistance in order to make Winger's efforts at French somewhat less grotesque and mangled.  <br />For a listener, hearing every important French word mispronounced (and by this I do not refer to an American accent on correct vowels and consonants, but to complete misreading of a significant proportion of all of the French vocabulary which is attributed to Delphine Roux--who is supposed to be a French native--and a highly educated and accomplished professor)robs that characterization of much of its impact.  Given the importance of Delphine Roux's role in the story, that loss is particularly regrettable.<br />THe power of Philip Roth's story is otherwise faithfully transmitted in this unabridged reading, and carries the listener along remarkably well.  The novel is one of the most powerful American books I have read in recent years and confirm's Roth's stature as one of the few &quot;great&quot; living novelists, if not the greatest in the U.S.	2002-07-27
US	52937746	R1Q1ZGO2MES4Y1	078619944X	442886627	French Toast	Books	2	6	7	N	N	awful reading will distress anyone who speaks French	Why they couldn't find someone who can pronounce French words correctly--even people with American accents don't pronounce Rimbaud as if the first syllable rhymes with Rintintin--to impersonate an author who has lived in France for two decades and taught at some of the best schools there is a mystery to me--the reading is offensive and ruins the experience of the book, which might have been enjoyable.	2002-02-16
US	52937746	R6CWKW90IU3RB	068980654X	720940950	The Moorchild (Newbery Honor Book)	Books	5	13	14	N	Y	Moving and tender story about a child half-human, half-fairy	My daughter and I listened to the Recorded Books version read by Virginia Leishman, one of the most beautiful readings of a children's book I have ever heard.  The story is suited for older children and might be too upsetting for some children under the age of 9 or 10.  There is a scene which will be upsetting to anybody--as well it should--but it should be \\"digestible\\" for most older children exposed to the evening news or history books, and the scene is sensitively resolved by the courage of the child's human father's quite heroic behavior.<br />The character of the child's human family members is one of the most comforting aspects of the book, as their courage and integrity is contrasted with the ignorance and fear of the villagers and the mob among both the fairies and the human villagers.  The similar ignorance of both groups with regard to anyone \\"different\\" is also an illuminating and sensitively depicted facet of a truly excellent book.<br />The story is about a child half-fairy, half-human, and as one character in the book states, \\"neither here nor there\\"....she doesn't belong anywhere, and that is the story's dilemma.  However, the story is so beautifully told that even for children who don't feel \\"different\\", it is hard to imagine a sensitive child of 10-14 who wouldn't enjoy hearing this story or reading it themselves.<br />The child in the story, Saaski, inspires hate in the medieval villagers who fear her difference as a threat to their well-being.  She also inspires deep abiding love in her human \\"family\\" whose real baby has been stolen by the fairies to make a place for the half-fairy child they have rejected as \\"dangerous\\" as well.<br />The examination of the origins of feelings of hate and love via the tale is illuminating for both children and adults, and I enjoyed the book as much as my daughter.  There are elements of the story which are reminiscent of the witch hunts in American history and legend, and common elements shared with stories whichdetail more recent racist hatemongering.<br />At the same time, the life of the \\"folk\\" or the fairies from the Celtic tradition is well-illustrated and explained.  My daughter recently had a passage in one of her homework assignments that talked about the time difference between the fairy and the human worlds which was very much in tune with the interpretation of fairy or folklore as told by McGraw.  This pleased my daughter a great deal and helped make the story feel more \\"authentic\\" for her.<br />I recommend this book highly for both classroom and personal reading as there is sufficient depth to generate active and relevant classroom discussions, as well as tremendous enjoyment for avid readers.	2002-02-09
US	52937746	R1M7PMJGO7KT96	0788729713	715667135	Snow Treasure	Books	5	2	3	N	N	One of the MOST EXCITING books I read as a child	This book was such a favorite of mine as a child that I just recently bought a copy for my daughter.  <br />It is a story that manages to create a suspenseful adventure from what were terribly risky but courageous acts of resistance on the part of Norwegian children during WWII.  <br />The moment I saw the name and author of the book, memories of the pleasure I had reading this story flooded my consciousness.  I must have read this book 40 years ago, but it was so exciting and moving that I remember it as if it were yesterday.<br />A wonderful choice particularly for a middle school child, especially one who is not usually a reader--even a child who is reluctant to read will be on the edge of his seat for this story.	2002-01-20
US	52937746	R1BM7ZO9BV70ZI	0694525057	733601761	Mystic River	Books	2	4	7	N	N	rating of Harpers unabridged audiotape version ONLY	This is a terrific story, and the reader of the audiotape version, Scott Brick, does a very good (though not inspired) job.  However, the physical quality of these audiocassette tapes is SO UNBELIEVABLY BAD that I feel a responsiblity to warn other potential customers.<br />I listen to audiotapes constantly--or at least I did before this tape literally destroyed both the cassette player in my car as well as one of the boombox cassette players I use at home for listening.  I have never in all of the years I have listened to audiotapes had a tape of such poor quality used for an audiobook--not even cheap children's tapes are this bad.<br />First, the tape was so thin and flimsy that it stretched out any time it was rewound or fast forwarded.  Secondly, one of the tapes not only caused my car cassette player to stop playing--the player was so badly damaged it could not be repaired and the tape had to be cut out of it--it couldn't be released.  Initially assuming it was the player that damaged the tape, I called Harper for a replacement audio tape for that particular cassette and just started listening to the next tape.<br />However, the next tape behaved the same way--no matter which cassette player I used.  Thus, I ended up with seven out of a box of 10 cassettes damaged, one of them completely destroyed before I figured out that these tapes are so flimsy they can only be played with extreme care and vigilance not to rewind, fast forward or in any way put pressure on them. If I wanted to rewind, I had to flip the cassette over and play it for a while, then flip it back--otherwise the cassette tape got damaged and screwed up whatever player was being used--two of which are now useless.  This was the only way I could figure out to avoid the problem and I only figured it out in time to protect the last three cassettes of the set.<br />To add insult to injury, the recording had \\"echoes\\".  So after the reader finished a sentence and paused, you could hear talking in the background.  At first I thought it was a radio in the background of the recording--weird, but it was all I could think of.  After a while I realized the sound was actually the same voice as the reader saying the same words as I had just heard--just with a time delay!!  It was unbelievably distracting and annoying--whether listening to a walkman or to the speakers of a cassette deck.<br />From the copyrights on the bottom of the box I gather there is some sort of arrangement between Harper and Books on Tape--although the readers are not the ones used by Books on Tape for their own unabridged versions, so I am not sure what exactly that arrangement is. All I know is that I have never had a Books on Tape version of such poor quality--and at (the price) it's not exactly cheap either.<br />This unabridged cassette version is truly (bad)--and the only reason I didn't rate it lower is because the reading itself is good and the book is very suspenseful--quite enjoyable if you don't have to worry about all of your electronics being destroyed and tapes having to be cut to get them out of the mangled innards of a cassette deck.<br />Harpers ought to be ashamed of selling products of such unbelievably poor quality.background.  At first I thought it was a radio in the background of the recording--weird, but it was all I could think of.  After a while I realized the sound was actually the same voice as the reader saying the same words as I had just heard--just with a time delay!!  It was unbelievably distracting and annoying--whether listening to a walkman or to the speakers of a cassette deck.<br />From the copyrights on the bottom of the box I gather there is some sort of arrangement between Harper and Books on Tape--although the readers are not the ones used by Books on Tape for their own unabridged versions, so I am not sure what exactly that arrangement is. All I know is that I have never had a Books on Tape version of such poor quality--and at (the price) it's not exactly cheap either.  <br />This unabridged cassette version is truly (bad)--and the only reason I didn't rate it lower is because the reading itself is good and the book is very suspenseful--quite enjoyable if you don't have to worry about all of your electronics being destroyed and tapes having to be cut to get them out of the mangled innards of a cassette deck.<br />Harpers ought to be ashamed of selling products of such unbelievably poor quality.	2001-12-10
US	52937746	R13VLKFQQTEDS7	1569945217	793880103	Cinderella	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Excellent audio version--great for car trips!!	It saddens me to see the review (above or below) which clearly has nothing to do with this audiotape but which may discourage people from trying these cassettes.  This is an EXCELLENT version of the Cinderella story--as are all of the Monterey Soundworks versions that I have heard so far.<br />My daughter and I listen to these tapes during her 40 minute drive home from school each day, or on her way to skating, karate, etc., since we live in the New Jersey suburbs and spend a lot of time in the car.  All of the Monterey Soundworks tapes are faithful to the original stories, and facilitate listening because there are different voices for each role. That means even very young children can distinguish points of view and get access to stories otherwise reserved for older listeners.<br />In the case of learning disabled children, this feature is even more pertinent, and has led us to collect all of the Monterey soundworks tapes available.<br />I highly recommend in particular this version of Cinderella, as it is universally enjoyable and comprehensible and makes the monotony of driving in even rush hour traffic a more pleasant experience.	2001-11-29
US	52937746	R2AKXB0NIAU56G	055352528X	505341703	Ella Enchanted	Books	5	1	1	N	Y	One of the VERY BEST AUDIOBOOKS FOR KIDS	As a parent who listens to children's audiobooks non-stop I have to say that this is one of my absolute favorites!!<br />The story is suspenseful and imaginative with delightful and convincing details, while the reading done by Eden Riegel is superb.  The tape kept me engaged and delighted, the diction is clear, the expression convincing, and the production the most professional.<br />I laughed, cried and sat on the edge of my seat waiting to see how Ella would resolve her painful dilemma.<br />Not only will your children appreciate the wonderful story and excellent reading, but parents will be engaged and delighted as well.	2001-11-27
US	52937746	R1RECL2AHFC045	0375507086	238592866	Too Close to Call: The Thirty-Six-Day Battle to Decide the 2000 Election	Books	5	28	39	N	N	Toobin is a first class journalist--read it and weep!!!!	It is most painful to read the customer reviews such as the one below from Marlboro, New Jersey.  This sort of intellectual dishonesty purposefully confuses the distinction between junior high school history textbooks and responsable journalism for adults.  <br />Pretensions to objectivity serve no purpose other than to provide outlines of dates and battle names for adolescent school reading, where kids have not yet refined their reasoning skills enough to evaluate what is convincing and what is not(though they'd do so a lot faster if conventional historical views were identified as opinions rather than taught as fact....)<br />Objective journalism is a fiction provided for the undereducated.  It does not even exist --we just all agree to pretend it does--but we know there's lots of bias in which &quot;facts&quot; get chosen to be covered in school--and which get left out.  <br />People are not objective--nor should journalists and authors try to be.  Even their choice of topics, let alone their choice of &quot;facts&quot;, demonstrate bias.  It's a thousand times more interesting and informative to hear WHY intelligent people have those opinions, and to hear them well argued than to get tepid and uncritical presentations of &quot;both sides&quot;.....As if....<br />This is a book for those who want to hear a point of view well defended, with the intelligence of someone unafraid to show the &quot;warts&quot; on either side.<br />If both sides of the argument interest you, you cannot presume to read only one book on the subject. If you are naive enough to believe that one suffices, there are plenty of books on this election that pretend to be objective (and are so weak and uninteresting as to be useless)--or you can drown yourself in the archives for the New York Times coverage of the entire election.<br />I prefer real debates, which stimulate--rather than undertaking to eradicate--the development of intelligence and articulate communication in the old as well as the young.  Hopefully, people with some intellectual curiosity draw their own conclusions and move on to writing their own opinions, or to having intelligent conversations with their friends...the possibilities are endless.<br />I have seldom seen Republican journalists write books about historical events that found liberal arguments as convincing as those which support a conservative interpretation.  Nor do I generally read books written by Republicans hoping to elucidate  the liberal viewpoint on an issue or event.  Why do Republicans find the same behavior on the part of liberals so surprising??? Perhaps it is their unnerving belief that &quot;TRUTH&quot; objectively exists somewhere and we could find it and all believe it together if only we were willing to work hard enough to understand their point of view..... <br />Elsewise, why would so many Conservative/Republican commentaries on books by liberals forever concentrate on whining about liberal journalists who don't give enough credit to conservative arguments? It seems obvious that if those journalists found conservative arguments so convincing, they'd spend their time making conservative arguments...... <br />Myself, I prefer to hear why Conservatives see things their way and why liberals find other arguments more persuasive.  The more succesfully argued the book, the more intelligent, the way I see it.  I also like intellectual honesty which is unfortunately absent in most conservative journalists--the one exception I've seen in recent years, Jay Severin of MSNBC, suddenly disappeared from the Internet soon after the last election--perhaps because his conservatism was too honest to survive the demands for more &quot;red meat&quot;--who knows?<br />The presence of that honesty is exactly what pleases me about Jeffrey Toobin and his book on the 2000 election. I find his argument of why the Republicans won using a more successful &quot;strategy&quot; rather than more convincing &quot;facts&quot; a satisfactory and convincing one.  To me, his &quot;objectivity&quot;, lies in his willingness to see the spots and stains and less than always elevated or noble motivations and behavior on the side of Gore and the Democrats, though he clearly believes that in terms of which side was &quot;right&quot;, the Gore side had the stronger argument.<br />If you read non-fiction for insight into why things happen the way they do, and you don't find a journalist's opinions irrelevant--then you will find satisfaction in the cogent arguments and incisive commentary of Jeffrey Toobin.<br />Particularly if you enjoyed &quot;A Vast Conspiracy&quot; which was a masterpiece of honest journalism--which is asking quite a lot in these days of murky and sensationalist commercialized news--you will find this book enlightening.<br />The analysis of the different strategies the two candidates followed to different conclusions is masterful and an excellent guide to fundamental differences in belief as well as behavior on both sides.<br />If you thirst for explanations of why one candidate could lose an election in this good country, and still have gotten more votes--perhaps even in Florida--you will definitely enjoy this book--though perhaps not the conclusion of the story it tells.....	2001-10-17
US	52937746	R1CWH9ORH3RZ0E	0613034945	79062036	The Watsons Go To Birmingham--1963 (Turtleback School & Library Binding Edition)	Books	5	1	1	N	Y	Great audio recording--EXCELLENT BOOK!!	I don't agree that LeVar Burton doesn't succeed at recreating a family from 1963.  I listen to audiobooks with my daughter all the time, and both of us are always asking for this one again.<br />First of all, it's funny--and for me, nostalgic.  It's one of the best audio recordings of a children's book I've heard (except of course for Harry Potter, which sets a standard that can hardly be met elsewhere).  The voices of each character suit the personality and character and vary with tone enough to make each one distinguishable by itself.  The speed and pace of the reading, and its clarity is also excellent, and the speaker's timing helps to keep the story comprehensible even for a child with an auditory processing deficit.<br />Naturally, the book is a masterpiece, so that makes it a lot easier to read well--but don't miss the recording of the book, it's part of the pleasure itself.	2001-09-24
US	52937746	R2BJ3L0TBQ6ZXY	0807259853	759987021	An Evening With Garrison Keillor, Maya Angelou, Laurie Colwin, Tom Wolfe, Calvin Trillin: A Gala Evening of Readings to Benefit the Homeless	Books	5	9	9	N	N	A priceless recording, continuous wit, amazing heart	If the current population in Washington isn't doing much to make you feel good, harken back to the days of yore with this audiotape made at a benefit for the homeless at Symphony Space in 1989.  The Symphony Space (un Upper Westside institution, for those of you unfamiliar with Manhattan) is an auditorium where readings and other artistic events supplemented the theater of the streets of the Upper West Side before no one could afford to live in this neighborhood anymore unless they were over 70 or had made a pact with the devil.<br />Tom Wolfe, Calvin Trillin and Garrison Keilor all read very pithy stuff but Calvin Trillin's deadpan annecdote, based on a fait divers about Ronald Reagan's address in Bel Air, is priceless.  Maya Angelou is fascinating and compelling, but it is Laurie Colwin's performance for which I bought this tape because I wanted to hear if she sounds as wonderful as she reads.<br />Colwin died only three years after this recording was made, quite suddenly.  Although her name was known to me, I only began to avidly read--and appreciate her books over the past year, surprisingly as a result of having read her food essays--a genre I seldom touch.  They were so great they inspired me to read the novels and short stories.  <br />Finding this tape was like winning a treasure hunt--it far exceeded my minimal expectations and has become my favorite driving excuse.<br />Laurie Colwin reads an excerpt from &quot;Goodbye without Leaving&quot; that almost had me wetting my pants in the car without leaving--it was that funny--and her delivery was as good as the text.<br />For Laurie Colwin fans this tape is a collector's item.  The more I read her work and read about her, the more I miss her--I never saw or met this woman but I intensely love her.  If you can still get a copy--grab it!!	2001-05-17
US	52937746	RX8R9QYTR5774	0375705856	963629300	Plainsong	Books	5	3	3	N	N	A very touching and well-written story	I don't agree with some of the reviews that refer to this book as sappy.  It has some very touching and tender moments but some very violent and nasty ones as well.<br />This author does not seem to believe that people must be defined by what is awful about humanity.  Although he sees and portrays the very violent nasty, and self-interested side of people, he believes in their goodness--and that is not the coming of age of an adolescent but rather the considered views of someone who has faith.<br />Though you get the impression that the author sees and understands both sides of human nature, he chooses to let the beauty of reaching out to another be the flavor of his prose that stays with you after the story is over.  It's quite an optimistic view of life, and will please those a with humanist orientation--I was enormously moved by it and will look forward to reading other works by Kent Haruf.	2001-04-29
US	52937746	R2FHTXUHA956I9	0807261866	363595414	Because of Winn-Dixie	Books	5	6	6	N	Y	Outstanding Audiotape Version--don't miss it!!!	My daughter and I recently went to Texas and had a lot of driving to do. We picked up a copy of this audiotape (we already had the book) and were IMMEDIATELY held captive by both the story and the reader.  We must have heard the entire unabridged reading at least 10 times before we flew home.  <br />Our favorite audiotapes include the Harry Potter series (as read by Jim Dale), &quot;The Trolls&quot; read by Julie Hagerty and written by Polly Horvath, and now Cherry Jones' reading of &quot;Because of Winn-Dixie&quot; by Kate DiCamillo.  The story is very accessible, the chapters each contain a story within a story--so that you can stop, do an errand, and come back without having the sense of being lost in the tale.  And the reader gives a strong portrayal of each character with different voices and intonation.<br />I highly recommend this tape both to those who have already read the book as well as to those who might otherwise miss it--even for non-readers, this is a book that will touch you heart and make you laugh, too.  It's about a lonely girl abandoned by her mother, who has moved because of her father's job (he's a preacher who has changed congregations) to another town in Florida.<br />The assortment of Southern &quot;characters&quot; she encounters does not disappoint those expecting fairly unusual and/or peculiar types.  A dog named after a grocery chain, a pair of oldertwo elderly &quot;eccentrics&quot; befriended by the girl, a guitar-playing convict, and assorted children from her father's church are all set in relief by their stories and their &quot;proximity&quot; to the dog who the girl brings home from the grocery instead of macaroni and cheese.<br />It's hard to believe the power of the performance by Cherry Jones which seems so direct and uncomplicated upon first hearing.  However, as the number of times I heard the tape increased, I heard new subtleties in the performance with each repetition--the strength of the performance is clearly not accidental.  This is one of the finest children's audiotapes we own--and we own quite a lot!!!<br />Highly recommended for a broad range of ages as well as both girls and boys.	2001-04-14
US	52937746	R16EQ755870P8W	1894210476	642807646	Song of the Unicorn: A Merlin Tale	Books	5	24	25	N	N	Delightful, absorbing, tranquil, among best for kids!	I was surprised and delighted today to happen upon a page on Amazon listing the Audie award winners, where I noticed that this recording had  won for children's music.  We happened several months ago to pick up a copy  in a toy store, totally by accident, having read nothing about its release  and seen no publicity.  It's a beautifully narrated tale of a quest on  which two children set out to search for a cure for their mother's illness.   They are aided by music, which is baroque and surreally beautiful,  introducing young listeners to this musical genre with the light and  delicate melodies that transport them as easily off to sleep as to dream of  evergreen forests and fairies and unicorns, timid and pure.<br />I bought the  tape on the strength of my respect for Jeremy Irons and my daughter's love  for unicorns.  At the last minute I exchanged the CD for a tape because I  wasn't ready to commit to the difference in price.  BOY WAS I WRONG!    For weeks I couldn't get my daughter to try it, then one night I put it on  to help her sleep and it became her favorite tape for MONTHS!  The music is  beautiful and the story compelling, yet one ultimately falls asleep without  a fight, it brings such a sweet tranquility to the listener.  <br />There are  melodies I would love to hear repeated, and the gist of the story is one of  children's strength and courage and love for their mother, and for truth.   Nonetheless, despite how much I adore this tape, my daughter continues to  love it just as much as I do--Now there's some testimonial!   We're ready  to upgrade to a CD so we'll be able to be sure to keep it for a long, long  time.  I must admit, I could easily choose to listen to this without  children anywhere in the vicinity, and plan to give a copy for Christmas to  all of my favorite kids.	2000-09-10
US	52937746	R3AO3ADA1JVD8W	0745131166	727852603	Vlad the Drac Vampire (Cavalcade story cassettes)	Books	5	0	0	N	Y	After Harry Potter, my daughter's favorite audiotape!	The story of a tiny vampire who doesn't like meat, faints at the sight of blood, and who can't vampirize anyone is very funny and very well read with  a lucious Central European accent by Brian Cant.  Vlad is well known to the  Stone family, and the children call to give him the news of the birth of  their newest sibling, Zoe.  Whereupon Vlad rushes to London &quot;to  help&quot; much to the dismay of the children's parents--their father in  particular.  Vlad's adventures are somewhat on the order of Lucille  Ball's--always well intended, but never very successful.  He is rich in  self pity, constantly bemoaning how lacking the rest of the world is in  compassion and concern for him. &quot;Poor Vlad, Poor Little Drac...&quot;  as he hijacks a double decker bus, decimates a dinosaur skeleton at the  museum, and gets locked overnight at Madame Tussaud's Chamber of  Horrors.<br />Quite a charming adventure for children who think they love to  be scared by vampires, but who prefer being made to laugh.  Very amusing  storytape (and book).	2000-06-22
US	52937746	R2CMY0MLVQET1	0316601950	760222125	The Pilot's Wife (Oprah's Book Club)	Books	2	17	20	N	N	Great beginning,couldn't put it down,by the end-FORGETTABLE!	This book really surprised me.  It started out very strongly, developing great interest in the characters and a great plot for people like me who are sure that every plane in the sky is about to come down.  <br />The book  was, until almost the end, almost obscenely engaging and suspenseful and I  finished it in two days.  However,it was ultimately very unsatisfying.  The  reader gets his/her hopes up for a much more profound and meaningful  experience than &quot;the PILOT's WIFE  ultimately provides.  <br />Unfortunately, as a suspense yarn, it's not even second rate.  I admit  to having enjoyed most of the book because Anita Shreve is a good writer  and sets a mood that is uneasy with anticipation of some great revelation  of truth or perfidy.  Awaiting its arrival made me read it even as I walked  through the commuter station.  But the book's promise rests unfulfilled.   It gives little or no insight into human behavior.  The ending was  unbelievable, at best, and in no way justified by the early character  development.  Also, the clumsy way the ending is grafted onto a body it  doesn't fit makes me think it was very poorly edited.  <br />The early  development in the book sets up a much stronger and complex set of  characters and events than that which is actually delivered.  The rushed  mish mash intended to serve as a denouement is blurted out at the end in an  almost insultingly contrived manner.  There is no care to detail or  authenticity in terms of preparing or justifying such an outcome.  In fact,  it's really quite trite.  It might have been a more interesting ending if  it had belonged to another book, but it bears no relationship to the story  which has been told in this one.  I was moved to wonder if the author  tacked this ending after it was suggested by a friend who hadn't read the  first part of the book! <br />It's like she had a great idea for a book, and  then lost steam when she had no idea how to take the set-up any further, so  they hired some hack writer to come up with an ending.  Instead of carrying  through on the promise of some great truth, one very sketchy character  blurts out the whole solution to the puzzle at the end.  There is no  connection between this late &quot;revelation&quot; and any evidence of  motivation on the part of the pilot.  It seems more than contrived--it's  like a cheap trick.<br />Though initially gripping, the characters are two  dimensional and don't justify the reader's interest once you realize how  little is going on in this story.  The daughter is like a shadow of a  person--there is no attempt to make her seem anything like a real person,  and even the wife is less than robust as a character.  By the end of the  book, neither the characters nor the plot is believable.  Even the suspense  peters out before the mysteries are resolved.<br />I was quite disappointed,  in that I had found &quot;THE WEIGHT OF WATER&quot; a much more promising  effort than this.  It seems a somewhat shallow attempt to hit the best  seller lists with the kind of story that could be made into a grade B  mega-budget romantic movie starring some handsome Robert Redford-type.  I  don't want to give away any of the suspense, but I must admit, I have a  real sense of being ripped off by the deflated ending of this book.	2000-06-20
US	52937746	R23KU1RUGNWHKA	1569472017	234802617	BOY ON THE GREEN BICYCLE- P	Books	4	8	8	N	Y	Intense and lyrical; fluid, poetic, wrenching: pure grief	This is a book about loss, lives shattered, the disconnection of those left behind, and the reality of going on with life after monumental tragedy as someone so different, so changed, that the sense of being human becomes  impaired.  <br />Sometimes like the wail of a wounded animal, always like the  articulate discomfort of someone so intelligent that the mystery of death  is an unaccustomed block, so sudden and so final, that she cannot accept it  as so--a lifetime spent waiting to change the outcome, to go as Orpheus did  to the underworld, for there must be some way to bring them back...<br />This  book is so powerful that despite its very close focus on the feelings and  experiences of the author as a child, it opens the sense one sometimes has  of looking so closely at things that their reality and substance  de-constructs within the mind, and falls apart.<br />The vision and memory of  this child, now grown, whose father committed suicide within weeks of her  brother's fatal bicycle accident are preserved in such a way as to fling  her continually back to those years when her world was destroyed, and her  home broken up, her pets put to sleep...is yet pure and limpid with clarity  for the reader--the mixed feelings of relief  and despair and the way they  mingle and switch places...this book is so true, one need not have  experienced anything like it as a child to understand completely and nod  with recognition.<br />This book is a little masterpiece, reminiscent of the  transformations in late nineteenth century  French poetry, like  Baudelaire's &quot;Fleurs du Mal&quot;--the transformation of the  &quot;base&quot; into the eternal, into the flower, into a work of art  instead of a scream.	2000-06-16
US	52937746	R1S5P3GT60MMD5	0807282367	542498813	The Trolls	Books	5	13	15	N	N	Treat yourself to the audio version--it's a delight!	I was more than pleasantly surprised by Julie Hagerty's perfect reading of &quot;the Trolls&quot;, as was my 10 year old daughter, who will hardly listen to anything but the Harry Potter tapes for the 85th time these  days(for all three volumes! )<br />The story is charming, and in this  audiobook version is accessible to even younger children.  Because the  action has some aspects which are more complex, but not necessary to  understand to enjoy the narrative, the audio version could be understood by  the average seven or eight year old quite easily, but still hold the  interest of an adolescent.  This greatly expands the range of children who  can enjoy listening to the tape, and as a parent I found it held my  interest as well.<br />Two little girls, who delight in torturing their little  brother, find a curious reflection in the stories their eccentric Aunt  Sally tells them during their parents' week away.  Aunt Sally is a  &quot;long lost&quot; sister of their father's, and hearing the stories of  his childhood in the third person is a fascinating and more important  experience for them than is first apparent to the girls or to the  reader/listener.<br />The humor in the story is nicely captured by Haggerty's  reading, and the the voices of the different characters she is able to  portray is impressive.  Aunt Sally's eccentricity is well-conveyed, as well  as not a little regret, though the overall tone of the story is quite  upbeat.  <br />Aunt Sally is quite an admirable character, and her recounting  of childhood adventures demonstrates a healthy respect for children on the  part of the author, Polly Horvath.  Though nothing particularly frightening  happens that would scare a young listener, a refreshing discussion of the  darker side of sibling behavior is the somewhat hidden revelation in some  of the stories of the children's father's experiences as the youngest  child.  Such a recognition that children are not all sugar and innocence is  quite welcome,especially given the sophistication of many young readers  today, and gives this book a weight that is unusual in such an otherwise  gentle and humorous story.	2000-06-14
US	52937746	R3S5T9ZQ400ED0	087584877X	859871675	Blown to Bits: How the New Economics of Information Transforms Strategy	Books	4	13	16	N	Y	Great book for executives to read and take to heart!	As an industry analyst for financial services, I must admit I was delighted by this book and appalled by the reviews it seems to have generated on Amazon!  Perhaps the wrong people are reading this  book--people already comfortable with the dynamics of the new economy and  with technology will not find a &quot;how to&quot; manual to success on the  Internet in this book.<br />Although some new economy professionals might find  this interesting as a way to conceptualize competitive dynamics, the book  will have a great deal more immediacy for those whose business is already  threatened with extinction .  <br />For managers and executives (and of  course, students and analysts) of old economy-type companies who need to  understand in which ways old business models have been made irrelevant by  the &quot;new economics of information&quot;, or who need to understand  which competitive &quot;laws&quot; remain constant and relevant, this book  is an absolute MUST.<br />In an industry like financial services, this text is  both helpful and instructive for survival.  It provides a clear and well  explained structure for understanding the ways in which an industry loses  competitive advantage and becomes impaired.  This occurs when progress in  information and technology melts the &quot;glue&quot; holding the value  chain together in an &quot;integrated&quot; fashion and individual  components of that chain become able to function independently as  competitors, or when entire components are forced to disappear.<br />As a  guide to strategy, this analysis will assist managers to develop realistic  expectations as well as to better foresee potential threats to success.   For those comfortable at an abstract level rather than needing a cook book,  the text will be invaluable.  <br />Managers willing to spend the time  applying these concepts to a competitive analysis of their own businesses  should find this a useful starting place for rethink the economics of their  businesses, and for staying ahead of the curve.  For securities analysts,  this book will help distinguish between those competitive dynamics which  have not changed as well as those which have.  <br />MOST OF ALL, THE ANALYSIS  WILL provide invaluable context for the difficult decisions lying ahead of  many old line companies for whom the handwriting on the wall is starting to  flash in Neon.<br />For those familiar with the work of Michael Porter, the  study provides a conceptual basis for where his work on competitive  advantage and strategy have not accounted for the impact of the Internet  and globalization of competition--ie, when barriers to entry are eroding at  an increasingly rapid rate and businesses are rapidly commoditized yet  demand significant investment in technology and systems to compete--leaving  competitors unable to earn even their cost of capital (...as in, don't do  it, it's time to move on).<br />So, my advice to business people who get this  far in the list of stupid and irrelevant reviews, is to ignore the negative  comments of those who get lost in academic mumbo jumbo to trash this book  and make themselves sound interesting, and spend a very enjoyable evening  understanding the ways in which the availability of &quot;rich&quot;  information to a broader and broader base of global customers and  competitors has transformed and will continue to transform the structure of  business and commerce as we know it.	2000-06-02
US	52937746	R2F0V0EHERCNFV	0446365386	716836572	Gone with the Wind	Books	5	5	5	N	Y	Perhaps my Favorite Book of All Time!	I have been reading &quot;Gone With the Wind&quot; every couple of years since I was first &quot;allowed&quot; to read it at the age of 14! (In those days our mothers had higher hurdles for &quot;appropriate&quot;  reading).  When I was younger, I read this book once every year.  I  actually learned to read French without a dictionary by reading the French  translation.  (It's long enough to have that kind of linguistic  influence! )<br />The story of Scarlett O'Hara, a feisty and courageous  southern &quot;belle&quot; whose beauty and sharpness was complicated by a  lack of insight into human nature that ultimately left her unable to  understand the hearts of those she most loved and by whom she was loved,  until it was too late.  It is also the story of the the South just before,  during and after the Civil War.<br />A more sympathetic portrait of the South  than many other Civil war histories, it has aged fairly well, despite a  slightly more patronistic view of African-Americans than one might be  comfortable with today.  Given its authorship dating back to the 1930s, I  believe one needs to look at the book in the context of its historical  period, and not to demean its historical or entertainment value simply  because we are more aware and more sophisticated after the Era of Civil  Rights in the United States.  I also believe a sympathetic and  well-educated person such as the author Margaret Mitchell seems to be,  would have been the first to agree had she lived long enough to undergo  that period of transformation in our country.<br />Despite this limitation,  few books of historical fiction are so well-plotted, and few characters in  literature are so well-developed as that of Scarlett O'Hara, Rhett Butler,  or Ashley and Melanie Wilkes--people I continue to feel like I  &quot;knew&quot; in another time.  <br />The story is also that of Atlanta, a  city which was relatively young and &quot;brash&quot; as a Confederate  economic and cultural center, relativeto Charleston and Richmond, the more  sedate Confederate capitals.   <br />The book is valuable both as a historical  text for those of us with little insight into the viewpoint of the South  beyond that given in grade school textbooks, and as one of the most  romantic dramas in American literature.  <br />I enjoyed reading this book as  much at the age of 48 as I did almost 35 years ago (and many times  in-between).  I can't imagine a better summer read for a teenage girl, or a  better way to relax at the beach for her mother, or a better way to pass a  cold snowy vacation in front of a fire.  Definetely a book for the  romantically inclined.<br />One should also note, that &quot;Gone With the  Wind&quot; is one of the few books (until perhaps &quot;Cider House  Rules&quot;) portrayed almost as well on film as the book is written.   However the pleasures remain different and self-contained, and no enjoyment  of either is lost by viewing or reading the other.	2000-05-28
US	52937746	R2MXP6N6Y1KZSR	0399233938	583219110	The Lost Flower Children (Novel)	Books	5	10	10	N	N	Beautiful and touching story about love and loss	I read this book last night, having merely picked it up to see if my daughter would like it.  I couldn't put it down.  The style is so gentle, and much like the books I read in my own childhood, rather than those  stories which feel so forced to demonstrate how cool they are in order to  interest today's children.  I imagine many very normal girls will be very  interested by the excellent style of the writer, by the story of the flower  fairies which takes place in a summer garden, and by the genuine love and  emotion which is generated by the interaction between the main characters.   <br />The story is about two sisters whose mother has just died.  The older  one is able to admit to herself how lonely she feels for her mother.  Yet  she is also able to sacrifice her own need to grieve in order to care for  her younger sister whose response to loss has been to obey rigid  self-imposed routines and to contol her life in a way her mother's death  would bely, by keeping outsiders strictly out of her life.  The girls spend  a summer with an elderly aunt and pursue an old mystery they read about in  one  of the books in the aunt's ancient home.  Much of the action is spent  in a wildly unkempt but magical and charming garden, and the girls' journey  from grief to a more peaceful acceptance of their loss is a somewhat  magical journey. The story gives a very positive role to the elderly aunt  whose home they spend the summer visiting, and also paints a beautiful  picture of sisterly support and love.<br />It's an absolute treasure of a book  and I highly recommend it.	2000-05-27
US	52937746	R8V4KQ46IDNA0	037541178X	471049102	While I Was Gone	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Preferred &quot;the Good Mother&quot;, but still an excellent book	I am shocked at the extent of the negative comments readers have made about this book.  I quite enjoyed this book, despite the fact that it is somewhat &quot;flawed&quot; --given Miller's amazing debut, and I am really  pleased to see it chosen for Oprah's Book Club.  Hopefully, this choice  will expose her work to a larger number of readers than would otherwise  have been the case.  <br />As a working and commuting mother with little time  to waste on most of the fiction produced today--which I find to be either  formulaic  and trite potboilers, or self-conscious and pretentious  bombast--I was engaged by this book within the first five pages.<br />The  story is very well written, and is fairly suspenseful with much emotional  tension successfully conveyed.  The worst one might say about it in the  context of Miller's earlier work is that it doesn't have the coherent unity  that &quot;the Good Mother&quot; did and its characterization is somewhat  weak.  I didn't quite understand why Jo remained so closed, despite the  affection and warmth she inspired in others--and I did think the author  could have done a better job at explaining why.  <br />This flaw accounts for  my having given the book only four stars, although it did not prevent me  from staying interested enough in both the characters and the plot to stay  up quite late on several successive nights in order to finish the novel.   <br />I would suggest that these are very small criticisms in light of the  poor quality of much of what is published today.  I have no trouble at all  recommending this book very highly.  Miller is a very articulate writer  with an ability to convey mood and emotion that many a good writer would  envy.  Although this is not her best work, it's still heads and tails above  most of today's offerings. <br />I would hope that many readers would try this  book, as well as &quot;The Good Mother&quot;, one of the most memorable  books I have read in the last twenty years, in order to get acquainted with  a very talented and promising writer.	2000-05-26
US	52937746	R3OJ9H8MLUOBDT	067088300X	221101137	The Girls' Guide to Hunting and Fishing	Books	4	5	6	N	N	Very witty and moving book by young author	This book was so much BETTER than Bridget Jones, I cannot even believe the reviews on this page!  I returned Bridget Jones to the store after four pages...YUCK, drivel...maybe if you are in EXACTLY the same situation as  she is, but many of us are NOT and still read, and for those of you who can  manage enough imagination to want to read about a life different than your  own, GIRLS' GUIDE is far superior.  Some of the less smooth aspects of the  book keep me unsure if it's really a 3 star rating rather than a 4 star  rating (Anna Karenina is a 5 star rating, but there's so much grade  inflation on these writeups that I didn't want the book to look like a  loser.)<br />It's a quick, relatively light read, with a little more weight  than I expected when I picked it up, and I thought it offered a fresh  perspective on the relationships between and among friends, lovers,  siblings, and parents.	2000-05-15
US	52937746	R2BFZ0P201WOUG	0345417941	394884897	The Cider House Rules	Books	4	2	2	N	Y	Large, complex, a symphony of voices old and new	Though John Irving has never been my favorite writer, I thoroughly enjoyed this book, as I did &quot;a Widow for One Year&quot; a few months ago, and &quot;A Prayer for Owen Meany&quot; many years ago.  I had tried reading  this over a decade ago, but just couldn't concentrate on so vast an  undertaking at a busier point in my career.  <br />I must admit that seeing  the movie, and having enjoyed it so much motivated me to try reading this  particular edition (part of what turned me off originally was how small the  print is on the mass market paperback editions and how hard it was ten  years ago to read such a thick mass market paperpack whose spine cracked  almost immediately--why don't publishers think more often about the  physical aspect of reading as well as the mental one?)<br />One of the things  that particularly delighted me about this book after seeing the movie first  (which is almost never the right way to do things) was how very much I  LOVED Michael Caine's portrayal of Wilbur Larch, and how I loved the  character of Dr. Larch even more after reading the book--I was afraid of  finding out it was Michael Caine who was wonderful, and not Dr. Larch  himself.  But the portrayal was outstanding AND the character himself is  more than memorable.<br />Although there are a significant number of small  differences between the story details in book and movie versions,  the  cinematic version turns out to be a fairly edifying transition to the  screen of a novel of Dickensian complexity in terms of character and plot.   Thus, the two versions can be enjoyed quite independently of one another,  but the pleasure of the one is enhanced by the experience of the  other---QUITE an accomplishment, and bravo to John Irving for having done  both!<br />The Cider House Rules may even be the best novel of John Irving's,  with the outrageous tragedies which initially made me somewhat distrustful  of his fiction more harmoniously integrated into this story than the  others--especially the earlier ones, like GARP which made me feel  uncomfortably manipulated and made his art seem somewhat silly.<br />The  novel, as opposed to the movie, is really quite comprehensible in terms of  motivation and character development, which is not always the case in  Irving's novels.<br />I do highly recommend reading this novel, even if you  enjoyed the movie, or perhaps especially if you enjoyed the movie, because  the broader canvas of the novel allows greater scope in understanding both  Dr. Larch and Candy.  Also, the differences between the two stories are  almost like a theme and variations to explore further.  They really don't  clash or conflict, but expand one another.	2000-04-22
US	52937746	R13S1E3HYEQINN	0385496095	860500413	Traveling Mercies: Some Thoughts on Faith	Books	5	24	25	N	Y	Funny, witty, endearing, a book for the open-minded...	I read this book in about one day, couldn't put it down--am not now nor have ever been either Alcoholic or Christian.   In fact, I seldom read books on religion, faith, or spirituality and chose this particular text  because I am an Annie Lamott fan, not a believer (in the more conventional  sense).  I do, very sincerely, respect other people's beliefs, however  orthodox or UN-orthodox, and I greatly enjoyed reading the way someone so  totally unlikely to write about a spiritual journey nonetheless found  herself on one when she became sober.<br />I was very moved, and actually  envious of the comfort Lamott's faith has given her life.  Not only has her  spiritual awakening played a role in controlling her alcoholism, but it has  lead her to a Christianity more resonant of the teachings of Christ than is  true of many more &quot;traditional&quot; spiritual authors.<br />However,  this book may in many ways appeal more to those who are TOLERANT than those  who might find the word &quot;faithful&quot; as the first on their tongue  to describe themselves.  Even the deeply skeptical, or the totally without  faith will enjoy this book if they are &quot;tolerant&quot;, because it is  about the faith of someone so unlike those one generally finds writing  about spirituality.  This fact also makes the book a great deal more  interesting than one might expect of a text about a spiritual journey (for  those who aren't wild about that sort of literature in general), because  you get to see how Lamott sustains her faith despite a mind with little of  the  &quot;obedient&quot; nature one generally associates with religious  fervor.  This is particularly true for those of us who see the word  &quot;religious&quot; and think more of Pat Robertson and the Religious  Right than somebody we might like to talk with at dinner.  <br />I read this  book maybe a year ago, and was shocked to see it now on the best seller  list, since it's really quite liberal, and is not the sort of book Iwould  expect to appeal to a wide range of Americans, given the fact that so many  people voted in primaries for the son of George Bush--a man for whom Annie  Lamott has never had a good word (to put it MILDLY! ).<br />Anne Lamott  writes for Salon.com, and is not your average American by a longshot.   She's got an incisive mind, she is witty and articulate, but she is also  wildly opinionated (in a way I find attractive), and so liberal that most  right wing &quot;Christians&quot; (as opposed to Methodists or  Episcopalians or Roman Catholics)will run in the other direction should  they pick up this book by accident-- These are probably the people  responsible for most of the one star reviews of this book.<br />For the rest  of the reading public, however, this is a taste of Annie Lamott at ALMOST  her best--(I do think that &quot;Operating Instructions&quot; is even  better, but so few books in my life have been capable of making me laugh  OUT LOUD in the New York City subway system during rush hour, that it may  be the funniest book about motherhood on the planet--and motherhood is its  own unique kind of spiritual journey.)<br />It is also true that this book is  about religious faith--the sincerity of this woman's vision of God is very  touching for those of us willing to admit more than one concept to the way  in which God is defined.  It's somewhat disturbing to read reviews on this  page where the way Lamott talks about God is considered offensive--this  book is definitely NOT for those into dogma, fundamentalism or thought  control.<br />It is however, a delight for those of us who have not entirely  lost the idealism of a generation much maligned by the numbers of its  members who have become so conservative with age that they view their  younger selves as the enemy--if that's you, avoid this book like the  plague, because there's lots of things here that will offend you.    And  for those who find reading about one person's spiritual life interesting--afairly self-destructive person whose faith has enabled her to cope without  flipping her out into a person who believes her way is the only way--the  book is an incredibly enjoyable, irreverant and sincere journey documenting  her less than well-traveled path.	2000-04-09
US	52937746	R28SPVP071MJ63	0060270926	798794031	How to Talk to Your Dog (Talk to Your Pets)	Books	5	25	39	N	Y	If you love dogs YOU NEED THIS BOOK!	I was blown away by how wonderful this book is--I love it asmuch as my daughter does, and it is appropriate to a much wider agerange than just four to eight--very few adults would find this book less than wonderful, if they love dogs.  This book is so lovingly written for people who really appreciate dogs, by a person who is clearly a dog lover.  It has such warmth and charm--I really like reading this book when I am by myself too!   (Of course, I also talk to my dog a lot and understand his answers, so I may not be representative of all walks of people).<br />The drawings of Sue Truesdell are as wonderful and charming as they could possibly be, but the most special part of the book is how some of the illustrations include a picture of the author (not a drawing) juxtaposed with one of the fabulous cartoonlike dog illustrations!   It's sort of like the mixture of people and cartoons in the &quot;Roger Rabbit&quot; movie or &quot;SpaceJam&quot;, but even cuter!  The communication between dog and author seems as real as if it were a photo of the author and her real dog, but have the whimsey of cartoon dogs--it's a stroke of genius and works so well I want to give this book to every dog lover I know.<br />The charming text also provides more information than most of the adults I know have about communicating with dogs--especially the special dogs you love.  <br />My daughter was born loving dogs as much as people and this book is such a delight for her and me to read together (and our dog likes it too!)<br />The text is written in very large print, but there is a good deal of text on each page to hold the attention of a better than just beginning child reader as well as an older sibling reading to a younger child.  In fact, this book would still be appropriate for a dog lover even if there is no child in the house at all--I find it absolutely fascinating, and I'm almost 49! .  <br />If you love dogs, GET THIS BOOK!	2000-04-09
US	52937746	RLZSPYHC8QOCS	0375502955	197934308	A Vast Conspiracy: The Real Story of the Sex Scandal That Nearly Brought Down a President	Books	5	5	7	N	N	Finally, someone indicts the PRESS...	There are lots of terrific things about this book, primarily described in some of the better reviews below.  But what I found most satisfying was its indictment of the behavior of the National Press/Media, whose role in this  scandal was shameful, biased, and overly personalized to an extreme extent.   <br />Nothing has contributed more to my skepticism about what I read in  print, than the self-righteous commentary of those in daily or weekly  print, or the BIG HEADs on TV, whose own moral behavior couldn't stand up  to a 40 watt bulb interrogation over this &quot;scandal&quot; which  resulted in the impeachment of a president, duly elected twice by the  voting public.  By contributing to the small-minded attempt to overturn not  one, but two national elections, the entire profession robbed itself of  what little dignity it has left in the era of the National Enquirer Evening  News.<br />During the crisis itself, I was constantly amazed at the gap  between the tone of the press coverage, of what the president had actually  done &quot;wrong&quot; that might concern me as a citizen rather than as a  peeping Tom.  I was only able to conclude that somewhere along the line,  things had gone way &quot;out of whack&quot;.  Toobin's book is very  insightful on this issue, and gives the press the extremely poor review it  deserves for its obtuse refusal to see the issue from the perspective of  citizens for whom Washington behavior neither defines nor interests most of  us for even one minute a month.  By remaining up in the &quot;la-la  land&quot; of the Washington Rule of the Absolute, where perfect truth and  beauty reign, they offered indictments of the most serious nature for acts  that hardly  qualify as &quot;crimes&quot; in modern times.  Few people  today (with the exception of the exceedingly self righteous)would have the  audacity to refer to lies about consensual sexual acts as  &quot;perjury&quot;.  In the perspective of history this episode will  hopefully signal the demise of the kamikaze newsjournalist.  It will  certainly be viewed as comical--and will subject to ridicule our era for  its frightening obliviousness as to what types of subjects qualify as  issues of public importance, as opposed to qualifying as complete drivel  and gossip.  Character assasination dressed up as a system of checks and  balances.  Ego on  parade.  Read their contributions to the process and  weep.  <br />Toobin correctly points out that the press ultimately added  nothing positive to the process, other than unqualified judgements and  unmerited egos.  The only person who comes out of this narrative looking  half decent is Judge Susan Wright.  It was a relief to see at least one  dignified Republic remains at large.<br />To read this scandal so  intelligently and openly discussed by someone who freely identifies himself  as a member of the press--and must not be a candidate for &quot;most  popular colleague of the decade&quot; as a result--is really quite  refreshing.  It's nice to see someone stand up for truth in journalism--a  rare enough event these days to merit notice!   Would that it might have  some effect on what we read going forward!	2000-02-06
US	52937746	R1WYE604CRBXX6	0807282316	667539744	Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban (Book 3)	Books	5	1	1	N	Y	The audio versions add something special to Harry Potter !	We have just received our Harry Potter tapes and CDs for the third book, Prisoner of Azkaban.  Though it would hardly seem possible, each one gets better and better.  I was delighted tonight to read that the first Harry  Potter audiobook has been nominated for a Grammy award--it is always  gratifying to see a nomination for something that actually deserves an  award.  The voices and the expression of Jim Dale, the reader, are  priceless, and add new dimensions to the book, even if you have already  read it more than once. We listen as a family, and all of the neighbors  clamor to drive everywhere with us!   This activity brings back the joys of  reading together that we used to have when I was a little girl. There is  nothing as wonderful on the market today as the Harry Potter books, and the  audio versions are spectacular.  I look forward to each and every one of  them as eagerly as my daughter--aand we depend upon Amazon to bring them to  us first!	2000-02-04
US	52937746	R1JLUT3Q48SSDH	0375502955	197934308	A Vast Conspiracy: The Real Story of the Sex Scandal That Nearly Brought Down a President	Books	5	41	51	N	N	Skip the advice from the people who haven't read the book!	Try reading this book--if you are not one of the people with an axe to grind, such as the operatives it describes, you will be impressed by its seriousness and documented evidence--(IMAGINE! ).  If you can start the book, and then put it down, you have more will power than I do.<br />This book  is both intelligently written and argued, PLUS it's honest, since the  author discloses his background from the very beginning, something the  right wing characters and loonies are loathe to do.  <br />The story is  presented in the form of a coherent and serious analysis of the behavior of  the actors involved in a constitutional crisis in the United States in  which few heroes made any appearance.  The explanation of how it happened  is developed in the context of broader social and political trends and  significant events of the period.  <br />Though, given the subject, it is not  surprising that there is information in the book of a private and personal  nature about several of the players, details of a &quot;gossipy&quot;  nature are not revealed just for the purpose of telling--they support  arguments, contentions, or explanations of motivation.  They are also  documented appropriately, giving sources (as well as the author's view on  the reliability of those sources).  Nothing is just hinted at--it's spelled  out clearly with conclusions and accusations made--this author takes  responsibility for his words--an admirable, and rare trait, particularly  among those who have written about this &quot;drama&quot;.<br />Additionally,  it is clear that this author read the transcripts and listened to the  tapes, and he delivers--what were at least for me--some bombshells!  Talk  about the issue of &quot;character&quot;--when you read some of the stuff  the Clinton opponents were guilty of according to their own words on tape,  I guarantee it will curl your toes.  <br />I am a liberal Democrat, and proud  of it, and I thought I believed the worst possible about the cast of  characters lined up against Clinton (whose sleaziness I don't deny, but  hasn't threatened my Democratic rights, nor those of the women he seduced  or seduced him, as far as I can see).  However, I never even imagined the  depths of pulchritude of which the people who hated him were capable.  <br />This book makes my old opinion of Linda Tripp look naive--and I have  never thought of a positive thing to say about her.  She gives a new  meaning to the word HAG.  Her manipulations are so much worse than I ever  imagined, I tremble to think of what must motivate someone to meddle so  shamelessly in the lives of others.  <br />Further, despite the tone of the  author's remarks about Monica Lewinsky (mentioned in the above reviews),  for the first time I really feel incredibly sorry for &quot;that  woman&quot;.  In the past I always thought she was just a dipsy doodle who  was old enough to know what she was doing, as far as Clinton was concerned.   But after seeing what Linda Tripp did to her, I have to feel compassion  for what was done to her life.  Most women have a story where they acted  foolishly somewhere in the history of their love lives (most men, too!)   And few of us would delight in having our youthful indiscretions broadcast  for prime time (except of course if you happen to have been 47 when they  occurred, and you are a hypocrite who deserves it).  But how many people  found themselves, as a result, hoisted on a national media stage,  manipulated by the cupidity, selfishness and narcissism of a two-bit bee  with an itch like Linda Tripp?   Someone who didn't even get the thrill of  great sex out of her betrayal, but whose jealousy and mean spiritedness was  translated into betrayal of the highest order.  Motivated by the  opportunity for her pathetic 15 minutes of fame and a big bucks book  contract, she was willing to sell this young woman's life and privacy down  the river--! <br />If Linda Tripp thought Monica Lewinsky was so in need of  protection, whydid she victimize her, make a public spectacle of her, and  sell her to the wolves?   Tripp takes the word betrayal into a new realm,  making the dramas of trailer trash look like the lives of Junior League  charity workers.  <br />And stupid?   Did she think when she made those tapes  of her conversations with Monica Lewinsky that people would only hear what  Monica Lewinsky said?   Didn't she realize her own TOTAL and COMPLETE lack  of anything resembling character would be revealed for all eternity?  No  wonder she had plastic surgery, she must need the equivalent of the Federal  Protection Program to find a community that would want her to live  there!<br />Then there's the noble tale of Michael Isikoff--the man ought to  be sentenced to permanent duty on the National Enquirer.  What a  sleaze--talk about people in glass houses!   Where did this guy learn his  journalistic ethics--or lack thereof? <br />If you thought you were frightened  by the right wing fanatics before--wait until you get a load of these  details.  Not surprisingly, like Newt Gingrich, some of the loonies started  out as left wing loonies and then flipped over--revealing the eternal  truth, &quot;a loonie is a loonie is a loonie&quot;.<br />This account is a  serious indictment of the players on all sides, and the abuse of the  American people and our right to elect any idiot or any sleazebucket we  please(not one George Bush, but TWO? )Even the general stupidity we  evidence in our political choices does not justify an entrapment in which  sordid B-drama level players like Linda Tripp and Luciane Goldberg play  roles far beyond their level of character or importance in an attempt to  force a duly elected president out of office.<br />Understanding this story  should be an obligation of citizenship--I never imagined how vulnerable we  were to people motivated purely by hate.	2000-01-27
US	52937746	R1QNV57Z78URAA	0375502955	197934308	A Vast Conspiracy: The Real Story of the Sex Scandal That Nearly Brought Down a President	Books	5	35	41	N	N	Driven to purchase by reminders of bitter taste of past!	I had no intention of reading anything ever again about this sordid topic.  Having obsessed our national news media for more time than it took me to gestate another human being--(which was at least a productive event) I was  only jubilant that the topic no longer came up in conversation--or occupied  the front of every newspaper and magazine.  <br />I was so happy at the end of  the Clinton crisis, only the thought of being bound and gagged seemed  slightly more threatening and uncomfortable than the thought of being  subjected for even one more day to the adolescent behavior of a large  proportion of our nation's Congress and the revolting press coverage it  generated.  The fanatical pursuit of the same crimes committed daily by the  hypocritical accusers (remember Henry Hyde's defense of his 'youthful  indiscretion' at an age when the average American becomes a  grandparent? )was so nauseating as to leave me permanently cynical about  the practice of government in this country.<br />Yet, even I have my limits  where I must draw my head out of the sand.  The combination of reading the  reviews of this book by some of the lunatic fringe below, plus finding  myself going through a revolving door on the other side of the glass from  Ken Starr on my way to work this morning,  in addition to seeing Linda  Tripp's plastic surgeried face (her reward for being named 'Girlfriend of  the Year' I guess) on the cover of a national magazine on the newstand  yesterday has driven me to the unimaginable--voluntarily reading something  about this shameful period in our history.<br />The impeachment's greatest  relief was in the silence that followed its pathetic end.  However, the  faces of Linda Tripp and Ken Starr--him live and only 12 inches in front of  me--it was like being Harry Potter staring into the eyes of VOLDEMORT!    <br />I suppose such experiences are meant to serve as a warning to remind us  how vulnerable we remain to Medieval witch hunts, and how it is necessaryto tell and retell the story to prevent its being forgotten, to keep it  from happening again.<br />How anyone, least of all the poorly disguised  fanatics pretending to be serious critics below, can find justification for  means so egregious gives me the shivers to contemplate.  <br />Few of us would  find Clinton's morality defensible were it not for the much more  reprehensible tactics of Ken Starr and his henchmen.  Most of us were able  to perceive the greater dangers of Starr's justification of thuggish  intimidation, which was not only more repugnant, but also a great deal more  threatening to our democracy and way of life than Clinton's sleaziness and  poor judgement.  <br />Any of us could find ourselves subject to Ken Starr's  methods of investigation if we were unlucky enough to cross the paths of  the &quot;Sheriffs&quot; of the ONE TRUE FAITH of moral righteousness who  believe they bear the exclusive mantle of the Founding Fathers.  Ben  Franklin, Thomas Jefferson, and even George Washington would roll in their  graves at the misuse of the power of impeachment which our noble Congress  did not hesitate to use as a blunt weapon of hatred and resentment.  <br />So,  here I go back into the fray--at least this books sounds intelligently  written--something I cannot say of some of the commentary on this page.	2000-01-15
US	52937746	R14JKI79NDVUWA	0375501649	879580032	The Velveteen Father: An Unexpected Journey to Parenthood	Books	5	7	9	N	Y	Articulate and moving account of parenthood and love--a gift	The only disturbing part of reading the reviews about this book are the sick and out of place remarks some people feel it necessary to share with those of us who clearly chose to read about this book--and to read the book  itself, because we care about what it means to be a parent, and what it  means to love a child.  <br />The nasty self-righteous and self-satisfied  judges of human nature ought to keep their nasty feelings in a more  appropriate place where someone might actually be interested in hearing  about them--which surely isn't here.  Writing such comments in this context  is clearly out of place--save it for your dogma conventions with others  like yourself, all of you so certain God has chosen you to establish the  standards on which societies ought to function.  Some of these  &quot;readers&quot; haven't even bothered to so much as read the book, let  alone approach discussing it in a public forum with an open mind.  But they  feel perfectly qualified to comment on it, having read it or not.  Why  don't you stay in your cages, and make sure you stay surrounded by all of  those perfect heterosexual parents who we all know never drink, beat, or  abuse their kids--because they are in touch with GOD's WORD and the  NATURAL--natural ignorance, untouched by human hands.<br />For those of us  sincere in examining the reviews for this book because we might consider  reading/buying it, one needs only an open mind and a heart that cares about  children and the way that they are loved.  What we discover in this  beautifully written journey is not all that surprising given the  universality of love and caring and parenting--that is, for gay men as for  all of us, loving a child is an all-absorbing, all-fascinating experience  to which only the tragically ill-informed would put up barriers.  I am  married and straight, and I would give my eye teeth to have my husband  articulate a small fraction of the understanding and power this man and his  partner have experienced of love--both between themselves as well as among  them and their children.  What lucky sons they have, to grow up in a home  so full of love, curiosity, caring and humanity....Read this book, if it  doesn't tickle your nose, bring a tear to an eye, or touch you in some  unexpected way, you are hard to move.<br />As for those who find it so easy to  knock Eastern &quot;elites&quot; and their preciousness, get a life, and  stop worrying about everyone else's life so much--the great thing about  this country is that no one group is granted the power to dictate how we  live--since most of New York is restraining itself from asking you to move  East, join us, and live as we do, why not leave the rest of us in  Peace...try imagining what life would be like if we really lived by the  Golden Rule you guys preach so much about---that ought to give you food for  thought.<br />As for narcissism, this book is clearly a story of outward  growth, of embracing the possibility of taking responsibility for others,  of seeing oneself in relation to others--some of the people who wrote  criticisms here don't even know the meaning of the terms they bandy about  so carelessly.<br />To Jesse Green--it's a beautiful story--I wish you only  more Nachus.	2000-01-06
US	52937746	R2B5A3VLZ47TJ1	0807281913	667539744	Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets (Book 2)	Books	5	47	54	N	Y	The AUDIO versions let the whole family share Harry Potter!	Want to end the TV addiction in your family?  Get a copy of the audio versions of the Harry Potter books and you'll never know what hit you!<br />Every kid who drives in our car wants to move to our house!  My  daughter and I have been listening to the first and second Harry Potter  books (Sorceror's Stone and Chamber of Secrets) on both audiotape and CD  for weeks and weeks now.  By that, I mean, that once we finish one, we put  the other one on, and have continued to go back and forth at her request.<br />I don't know how long this can last, but I agree that nothing else quite  measures up afterwards!  The reader, Jim Dale, is somehow able to  communicate at least one or two DOZEN characters without any duplication  and perfectly captures the style and personality of each of the characters  without any loss of how you imagine them.  What a treat!<br />Each character  has a perfectly appropriate voice and tone and loses absolutely nothing  from the book.  Quite the contrary, we are both hearing new things that we  must have missed the first time we read the books as we are endlessly  entertained and amused.<br />We listen whenever we are driving in the car, or  drawing or doing crafts, while laughing out loud, crying, and giving each  other funny looks!<br />We have even found ourselves sitting outside the  movies, lessons, and our own driveway, without being able to move until we  come to the end of a chapter.<br />No matter how many times you have read the  books, I guarantee the audio versions will give you a new perspective on  the stories and/or reveal something which you didn't already know from your  reading.  Besides, it is a pleasure separate and apart from reading the  books yourself.  The art of reading out loud is not entirely lost--you only  have to listen to these audiotapes to realize that the TV can never compete  with this type of reading out loud!  Share this with your family--YOU'LL  NEVER LOOK BACK!	2000-01-05
US	52937746	R102GYFTTHZO10	0807281751	667539744	Harry Potter and the Sorcerer's Stone (Book 1)	Books	5	9	9	N	Y	Don't miss the AUDIO version, even if you've read the books!	You'll be the Sheherezade of your neighborhood, reuniting long lost families, seeing them gather cosily around the boom box, stereo, CD player, or the cassette player in the car...just don't miss out on sharing the  audio version of Harry Potter with your family, friends, children,  neighbors' children and/or perfect strangers/pets (if that's all that's  available)!<br />There hasn't been a TV series or movie this good in decades,  and the guy who does the reading for the story should get some kind of  award, if he hasn't already. I thought it would be really hard to find  someone who wouldn't lose some of the magic of reading Harry Potter and  imagining each of the characters in my head--BOY, was I wrong!<br />Every kid  who enters my car wants to come and live at our house so they can keep  listening!  When my daughter's birthday celebration with a friend was  supposed to move from MacDonald's to the nail salon for manicures and  pedicures, they asked if they could just sit in the car with their  hamburgers and listen to the tape!  Then, they wanted to go home and read  the books again--it's addictive, I find myself listening to the tapes even  when the kids aren't in the car and trying to remember where they left off  so I can rewind back to that spot for when I pick them up--otherwise, the  kids rumble revolution!  This could bring back radio if we're not  careful....	2000-01-05
US	52937746	R248AZT4ZEMX7R	0684810484	966435098	And Never Let Her Go : Thomas Capano: The Deadly Seducer	Books	5	3	4	N	Y	Couldn't put book down, READ IT, if you're a true crime fan!	I treated myself to this book over Christmas vacation, and I almost never buy True Crime books in hardback.  However, the narcissism of this perpetrator was so amazing to me, I couldn't wait for the paperback.  WELL  WORTH EVERY PENNY, the book did not disappoint.  Ann Rule is able to  organize tremendous amounts of information into a highly readable story  with no sensationalism and great psychological insight.  I was hooked right  up until the last minute.  The judge's sentencing was the best part of the  book--I wanted to punch my fist into the air in triumph--it was emotionally  and intellectually satisfying to see justice done and to read such a wise  commentary on the commission of a heinous crime and the multitudes of  people damaged by the murderer prior to and after the murder itself.  Done  with the right amount of emotion, intelligence, and thriller-level pace,  this is a terrific read!  The insight into the mind of a narcissist and  those he was able to manipulate and control is truly fascinating--and  frightening!	2000-01-02
US	52937746	R2H9DI8DVV5BH2	0439136350	667539744	Harry Potter And The Prisoner Of Azkaban	Books	5	1	1	N	Y	A note to J.K. Rowling--THANK YOU, THANK YOU, THANK YOU!!!!!	As a mother, a former teacher, and a lifetime reader I can only say that it is we who must thank you.  Nothing an individual can do in his/her lifetime can be greater than contributing in some positive way to the  growth of a child.  For you to have contributed so positively to the lives  of so many children is a gift so enormous it is beyond my ability to  describe.<br />I know that I have enjoyed these books as much as any of the  children who have written reviews did. And as I read each one of these  books I was struck with the power of the author's artistry and ability to  draw any reader into Harry Potter's world.  I couldn't wait to read each  next volume, and had to send to England for the second and third volumes  each time one was published!<br />So many children never experience the magic  of reading and the miracle of being transported to another place that  exists only in one's own imagination!!  Such is the creative power of  literature that does not exist for other forms of entertainment.<br />There  are those of us gifted with parents, a teacher, a relative or someone who  loved us enough to give us a love for reading.  But there are so many more  of those who are denied not only the pleasures but also the endless  benefits, direct and indirect, of the reader's life.<br />So many, many  children, lucky enough to be children today, while you are writing, will  become readers because of your books--who would not otherwise have done  so.<br />For that alone, if not for the intense pleasure of reading your work  and having before or behind us the delectable pleasure of reading it to our  children, I and everyone who loves children THANK YOU, THANK YOU, THANK  YOU!!!!!	1999-09-13
US	52937746	R32Q3O8W4XI0GO	038533334X	575060326	Charming Billy	Books	5	84	85	N	Y	Devastating emotional impact, masterful writing	Like the earlier reader with a 5 star review, I too had to comment on &quot;Charming Billy&quot; after reading the negative customer reviews which have recently been posted here. Though I read this book months ago,  it remains one of the best written and most memorable books I have read in  many years. It cannot be said to be an enjoyable book, unless can take  pleasure in the level of artistry and characterization achieved by a subtle  writer. It does not depend on plot, the story's main events are revealed  early--both in the text and in all the reviews. There is no suspense, no  submarine or serial killer, no cannibalism or girlish conversations. To  witness Billy's destruction as a participant in the drama--for that is the  achievement of the author, to have forced the reader beyond distant  observation--is painful and wears on your ability to accept the depressing  emotions that result. For those whose imagination can only be stimulated  when their heart is accelerating, this book cannot satisfy, but reading it  is a moving experience.  It is an exploration of motivation, of  self-destruction, of love and of the quality of 'unselfishness', of the  sources of decay and of the misguided nature of those who take upon  themselves the judgement of what is best for others. It makes you wish you  could weep and find some relief.	1999-07-23
US	52937746	R2VYQW7F8Z30TN	0812929802	499536931	Expecting Adam: A True Story of Birth, Rebirth, and Everyday Magic	Books	5	3	4	N	Y	a beautiful story about loving and being loved	I was so moved by this book that I would like to give a copy to every person I love and care about.  This book is about how truly misguided the idea of &quot;success&quot; in our society has become.  It is about  choosing to make your life more meaningful and happy.  <br />Although some  reviewers refer to it as a spiritual book, it is a powerful sociological  analysis of the deep-seated prejudices in our society against being   \\"different\\" or  \\"unusual\\".   What could be more natural than a mother  deciding to behave like one?  Yet what is most astonishing in the story is  the refusal of so many people to understand and support that decision.   <br />I myself am a person who deeply believes in a woman's choice, and yet I  remain amazed by those ignorant enough to insist that &quot;choice&quot;  means believing in abortion-particularly with regard to disabled children.   Martha Beck's &quot;choice&quot; was to give birth to her child.  How many  times have I thought to myself how lucky my husband and I were not to have  known that our daughter would some day be labeled \\"disabled\\".  I cannot  imaging being deprived of her miraculous and deeply treasured self, simply  because she has turned out to be different than our expectations.  When  women choose abortions, it has to do with their own lives, and needs, and  resources.  This book is about why that is such a wonderful way to help a  child enter the world.  Martha Beck made her choices understanding that she  was choosing for herself, and not because the baby she was carrying met,  exceeded or disappointed her own or others' expectations.  She has a lesson  to teach all of us-even the reader from Brooklyn so offended by the way the  author uses Harvard in the book. <br />This story is the story of a couple,  both of whom suffered from a belief that their \\"value\\" stemmed from their  intelligence,  their academic achievement, and their professional  potential. At different points in their lives, both were forced up against  the knowledge that they had been pursuing goals and lives entirely devoted  to proving them worthy of being loved.  These lives were called into  serious question by the challenge of being faced with the birth of their  second child, who would be born retarded.  Although the author talks a lot  about Harvard, it is not about trying to impress us with the meaning of her  Harvard degrees.<br />For those readers who start out their lives already so  wise and well-adjusted they can't imagine why kids who go to exclusive  schools are sometimes so in awe of that achievement-which seems so  egotistical-perhaps this book is not necessary.  However, for those like  the rest of us, who question the values around us, but still founder when  daring to imagine things differently, the book is a godsend.  Though it may  come as a  shock to many educationally and professionally successful people  to hear that the reverse side of a high IQ is sometimes an enormous sense  of self-doubt and a lack of feelings of self-worth, it is nonetheless very  true.  One has to be fairly driven to compete in much of today's academic  and professional world-given the costs demanded as \\"ritual sacrifices\\" by  the Gods of Success.  And in order to ignore our natural tendencies to seek  pleasure rather than pain, a certain amount of necessary approval from  parents and teachers has to be made contingent on academic and professional  achievement or else normal  folk won't be willing to suffer the sacrifices.   By allowing us to understand the Harvard environment, the author helps us  to understand just how desperately she and her husband believed they had to  be \\"successful\\" in that world in order to feel worthy of love.  <br />Their  lesson-part of the spiritual tale which is also a focus of the story-is  that we all deserve to be loved-not for what we achieve but for who we are.   This is not what they teach at Harvard-or any other academic institution  of high repute, as far as I have observed.  Lots of people will not need to  hear that lesson-but every parent should, even if they already believe they  know everything about parenting.  Imagine a world in which all children  were as wanted and as loved as Adam-it would be like heaven on  earth.<br />This book is about trying to get back on track with what the most  profound goals of our lives should be, and how to achieve them.   Ironically, there is not as much information about having a disabled child,  or about that child himself, as there is about the beauty in taking life as  it comes.  My mother used to say that every person wakes up every day and  is forced to decide whether to see the donut or the hole.  My mom always  chose the donut.  That was her greatest gift to me.  My daughter has  continued in that family tradition of giving.  Reading this book, which  made me weep and chuckle out loud all week on PATH trains and New York City  subways--to the dismay of other passengers--, has given me a  &quot;refresher course&quot; in why such help remains necessary.  Too many  people have lost touch with the real beauty in life or have lost the  ability to notice simple beauty--it is a natural talent of children, and  the gift that Adam brought to the Becks.  Many people of course, have never  had it.  In a time of great &quot;prosperity&quot;, books like this can  help you to focus--or refocus--on what is most precious in our lives.	1999-04-11
US	52937746	R3P4MIX3UUVK13	0316780375	480327121	The Weight of Water	Books	4	3	6	N	N	A fascinating attempt at &quot;weaving&quot; past and present.	Although this was not a perfect book, it was fascinating to see the author attempt to weave meaning into her text using a historical murder case and a contemporary story for counterpoint.  This is a complex and challenging  task, and though not perfectly achieved, it was admirable nonetheless.   This, and other &quot;less than perfect&quot; current writing merits more  respect than they seem to be getting from some of the self-appointed  critics who choose to comment on texts chosen by Oprah for her book club,  or on authors whose other works she has chosen.  I must admit to being  appalled by literary snobs who seem to find it necessary to bash these  authors as well as Oprah for not living up to their &quot;literary&quot;  standards.<br />It was reading the commentary on the latest Anita Shreve  book--after having enjoyed &quot;The Weight of Water&quot;--that motivated  me to write my own comment.  <br />I am so offended by the faux-intellectual  snobbery of those who look down at Oprah and her book club choices.  By  looking down your nose at anything smacking of less than the most refined  level of literary worth, and refusing to recognize what is positive about  Oprah's book club--and her choices--people who consider themselves  &quot;well-read&quot; are descending to the lowest form of snobbery--and  the least justifiable one as well.  These self-appointed critics exhibit  their own ignorance and not a small amount of envy.  I highly doubt that  many writers of any worth would look upon a renaissance of serious reading  by millions of people in all different levels of society as anything less  than miraculous and praiseworthy.    People who really love books and love  to read should join in LOUD praise of Oprah's REVOLUTIONARY actions and  EFFECTIVENESS at getting America not only to read, but to think about books  and discuss them, in record large numbers.<br />I think what Oprah has done  for American women, and for writers all over the world, is worthy oftremendous recognition, praise and gratitude. For how many years have we  heard how little reading goes on in the American home, and how few children  are exposed to even 15 minutes a day of watching a parent sit and read a  book?  And instead of preaching about the need for people to read and think  and imagine the lives of other people in other situations, or to see other  ways of dealing with the same problems we live -- Oprah DID something!!!!!!   I think someone ought to give her a prize on the order of the Nobel Peace  Prize--and pin some huge medal on her chest.  I think what Oprah is doing  will affect more people's lives in a positive fashion, than the actions of  most of the politicians of the last three decades in this country.<br />Those  of us blessed with parents who read to us a lot, who may have spent our  lives reading and studying and taking apart literature, may not agree with  each and every one of her choices--or even any of them.  But we owe her a  good deal of respect and gratitude, along with the same for her chosen  authors.  <br />Would that every smart aleck writing pompous and thoughtless  comments from their comfortable anonymity, gifted with  &quot;superior&quot;literary taste were able to make such a productive and  beneficial contribution to society.	1999-04-06
US	52937746	R1XPKLAVO64DCQ	0345333756	460326525	Staggerford: A Novel	Books	4	31	31	N	N	What a delightful surprise!  I couldn't put this book down!	I must have bought a copy of this book 13 years ago, and it has sat on my shelf waiting to be picked up as I finally did on my way into the bath in need of a book I could get wet.  I found myself engaged before I had  finished the first five pages, and I spent what little free time I have  over the period of three or four days, savoring the absolutely delightful  characters, the very subtle writing, and the heart-warming and humorous  text.  <br />I found myself laughing out loud while reading some parts of this  book, and even referring to earlier ambitions I had in my youth to be an  &quot;ack-comedian&quot; while chatting to one of my colleagues on the  phone today.  It felt like a wonderful secret joke between me and the  author.  <br />I can't believe the review that was on the bottom of the page  for &quot;Staggerford&quot;--by the person who didn't care about the  characters--that was exactly the opposite of my reaction to this book!  I  cared so much about them and was so moved by them, and by the patient and  tolerant love that Miles Pruitt had for all of them.  I finished the book  in the commuter train home, tears in my eyes, not of maudlin joy, but of  loss.<br />Do not miss this book--it's such easy reading and so deceptively  simple, that you will not even notice until afterwards, the abundant  kindness and love with which it has been written.	1999-01-26
US	52937746	RXOP9V7PU5I5	0684838680	434448992	Fall on Your Knees.	Books	5	12	12	N	N	A mystical book, moving and repellant, hypnotic to read.	I highly recommend this book, but only for strong readers. It was so  fascinating and well-written that despite its size, I was unable to put it  down until I had finished it.  This forced me to go to work sleepwalking  more than once.  I remain quite amazed at the talent of the author, and at  her ability to tell a story that rang true despite the magical and  fantastical imagery that occurs quite non-chalantly in the story.  Although  the author is Canadian, the story reads more like a modern South American  novel than a North American one--which is a strength that gives the work  more than a little originality.  However, the duality of the humanity this  book portrays is almost unbearable.  The evil depicted in the story is so  ugly I found myself wanting to vomit in the middle pages.  The book's  vision of the world, though redemptive in the end, is intensely depressing  for the unwary.	1998-09-17
US	52937746	R2PB354QCGTGJT	0684827387	465257818	Learning Disabilities A to Z	Books	5	4	4	N	Y	THANK YOU FOR THIS BOOK, I AM A VERY GRATEFUL PARENT!	What a relief to find this book!  In very clear and understandable language it provides a comprehensive discussion of &quot;learning disabilities&quot; in all of the hundreds of ways they may affect an individual child.  This book is a must for anyone involved in helping, teaching, or loving a learning disabled child.  I wish this book had been around five years ago when my daughter was diagnosed.  I believe I might have suffered fewer sleepless nights, crying from fear of the unknown, if it had it been available.  Constructive advice on how to be supportive without undermining confidence and self-esteem.  If you are a parent of a learning disabled child--or you love somebody who is--this is likely to be the most helpful book you will read on the subject.	1998-05-21
US	52937746	R45WKNSZVIE24	0590846280	451316620	The Adventures of Captain Underpants	Books	4	3	3	N	Y	silly, funny, perfect read aloud, pictures add zest	My daughter loved this book and it is the first chapter book she has ever been able to sit through. We read it together in one afternoon while she waited for a friend who was late, and she was delighted and eager to listen the entire time.  She just turned 8 and has ADD and learning disabilities.  This very silly and easy to understand story is just what she needs to encourage her listening and comprehension skills! It's not classic literature, but it's honestly funny, and not offensive, and genuinely clever in its illustrations. Only the most humorless parent will not enjoy reading it with their kids.  You get to say some pretty funny stuff!	1998-01-17
