US	52938915	R1M9MF05I5607J	0789309947	61634286	Intimate: Nudes by Marc Baptiste	Books	3	36	44	N	Y	scattered and distant	this book suffers from an excess of professionalism: as a successful fashion photographer, baptiste has adapted too well to the demands of shooting for the editorial, and the models shown here are much too practiced in looking pretty on cue. the result is a variety of photo techniques that don't seem especially keyed to the human themes in the photos, and a variety of models who do not communicate any intimacy because they are all so obviously *posed*.  helmut newtson is an obvious yet undigested influence, and any newtson collection completely surpasses the emotional impact of this book.	2004-03-13
US	52938915	RWET1RSKPY33G	1857099044	901799659	Titian (National Gallery London Publications)	Books	5	22	22	N	Y	superb intro to titian	for its size, this is probably the best overview of titian available in english. the color reproductions are beautifully done, the sampling of titian's works is comprehensive yet compact. the historical essays on the epochs of titian's output and the commentaries to each painting are well written and highly informative. a few major works, such as the venus d'urbino, are reproduced in smaller format and discussed only in passing, as they could not be included in the exhibition. even so, only rona geffen's study of titian's women goes farther and deeper into titian's originality, humanity and genius. highly recommended.	2004-03-13
US	52938915	R18AYE6XBJVF5H	382384556X	33842628	On Form	Books	5	8	8	N	Y	remarkable visual inquiry	this large format and beautifully printed book is one of the most interesting traversals of the human form i have seen. bitesnich takes a &quot;classical&quot; approach to the nude -- lightly oiled, strongly lit, crisply focused -- but gives it an edgy twist through his choice of models (including a transsexual and an amputee) and his clean yet innovative poses. the variety of printing techniques, lighting, contrast and settings, and the many beautiful models, give the collection a remarkable scope and interest within bitesnich's consistently austere yet lyrical style. a real pleasure.	2004-03-13
US	52938915	R1T7JYIEA8VGR8	0300098804	970988965	Manet/Velázquez: The French Taste for Spanish Painting (Metropolitan Museum of Art Series)	Books	3	30	38	N	Y	museums rather than art	as a painter and fan of both manet and velazquez, i found this weighty tome disappointing. the focus is heavily institutional, with separate lengthy chapters on the history of the prado (madrid) and the louvre (paris) and their collections and display policies. the tone is self congratulatory, with no mention, for example, of the prado's misguided 19th century &quot;restoration&quot; (censoring and repainting) of works by goya and velazquez. the emphasis on manet as the source of spanish influence in france inappropriately neglects painters such as corot and downplays the secondary influence of degas. particularly galling is the negligent exploration of technique, style and imagery across the painters. this book provides absolutely no insight into the essence of velazquez's art (everything is reduced to &quot;la cuisine&quot; or brushy technique, which just as well characterizes rubens or hals), nor why it was novel in comparison to italian or northern european traditions (rubens and hals again), nor manet's struggle to accommodate it, nor what this struggle meant to other artists in paris at midcentury. one is left with the impression that spanish postcards somehow became fashionable and artists are rather faddish people. the narrative crawls from one microscopic example of influence or iconography to the next -- this manet painting derives from a specific etching or carte de visite -- and lingers lovingly over inventories of copyist visits and painting sales. j.s sargent *and* carolus-duran merit a skimpy 12 page section of text, while the collector archer m. huntington and the hispanic society of america get a fulsome 20 pages. the upshot is a verbose celebration of collectors and museums, with scanty understanding of artistic influence and its transformative effects on painting practice.	2004-01-08
US	52938915	R2EA1XZHR6DATX	3822885762	468723837	Art of the 20th Century (Jumbo) (v. 1 & 2)	Books	2	19	20	N	Y	spotty, fuzzy, handsomely printed	any book that attempts to cover western 20th century art deserves to be reviewed with a large dose of charity -- the task is huge and perhaps impossible. however, this two volume set (one volume in the paperback edition) seems to go out of its way to make things harder than they have to be.<br /><br />as with any taschen publication, the printing standards are exceptionally high. there is a wealth of beautiful and often canonical color images of major works by many artists ... the binding is solid and the text crisply printed. as a visual browse the book is a delight. the concluding biographical \\"who's who\\" of artists is a useful resource -- the book is probably worth having for these merits alone.<br /><br />unfortunately the coverage of artists and movements is alarmingly spotty. there is no coherent, clear exposition of the guiding principles or characteristics of surrealism, abstract expressionism or modernism (e.g., greenberg and fried), l'art informel, arte povera, etc.; no mention of the evolving and interdependent influences of art, art criticism, art markets, intellectual trends and social causes. everything is broken up into discussions of individual artists, which is obstructive because there is no subject index. and artists of the calibre of joan mitchell, andy goldsworthy, lucien freud or john marin (!) are omitted entirely.<br /><br />worst, the text is larded with fuzzy, inane or fatuous commentary that illuminates or documents nothing and very often fails to connect ideas to the illustrated examples. of frida kahlo: \\"The moving paintings of this long-suffering artist are socially critical without being aggressive.\\" (the illustrated painting is a self portrait.) of joseph beuys: \\"Beuys devoted his entire life and energy as an artist to propagating his own inner convictions. It would simply not have occurred to him to put his message up on a sign above his front door.\\" well, what's your point? of valerie export: \\"The Austrian artist Valerie Export devoted herself in her feminist Actions to historical manifestations of female body language (ill. right).\\" the illustration referred to shows export wearing a box; what is not explained is that this permits men to grope her bared breasts in public. of chris burden: \\"Chris Burden set out on a voyage of self-discovery via his own body (ill. below left).\\" what does that mean? the illustration referred to shows two video captures of burden's face and two figures, one pointing a rifle at the other; what is unexplained is that burden is having himself shot in the arm, or why that is interesting. and on and on ...<br /><br />it is not all that difficult to select representative or important works of art from the 20th century -- auction prices and critical reputation can guide the way. on that criterion these two volumes are well done. it's quite another thing to illuminate, explain, contextualize and connect the enormously rich history of art over the past 100 years, and that is where this overview is a serious disappointment.	2003-05-02
US	52938915	R2F5CY8EJJWZU4	0198505191	741926903	Inner Vision: An Exploration of Art and the Brain	Books	2	53	67	N	Y	this has little to do with art	as someone with a doctorate in psychology who has retired to a life of intensive painting, i can say this book falls short in its fundamental premise: if we can identify a distinct visual capability in the brain, that capability forms the basis for visual esthetic judgments. that argument unfortunately goes nowhere, and the result is a thin book with its substantive content spread even thinner.<br />zeki's argument is roughly that the mind is an active creator of visual experience; that we create visual experience using a variety of \\"modular\\" cerebral functions (specific neighborhoods of the brain that detect edges, analyze movement, perceive color, recognize faces); and that art works which \\"appeal\\" to these modular capabilities provide the foundation for art. claims that art that becomes \\"great\\" if the mind is presented with ambiguous or multiple interpretations, provoking it to \\"actively create\\" varied interpretations from the work in view. in this way zeki hopes to reason his way toward a \\"neurological esthetics,\\" a biologically based prescription of what is beautiful or compelling art.<br />well, where to begin ... because a brain function is invoked by a stimulus does not make it interesting or great; my review invokes your language capabilities, but that doesn't make my words poetry. a painting does not succeed by creating a variety of specific but competing interpretations, as zeki claims, but by reframing awareness into a realm where the mundane categorizations necessary for behavior are stretched by the exercise of the senses. what counts as beautiful cannot be determined from the quantitative activity of different brain regions. what counts as beautiful depends heavily on cultural expectations, not on physiology ... on and on the objections roll. <br />in the end, zeki's argument is highly parochial. his examples come from the \\"edge detection\\" art of the supremacists or the cubists; the \\"color perception\\" art of the fauves, the \\"movement perception\\" art of calder, and so on -- simplistic art for simplistic art theories. (someone should ask, where are the edges in monet or turner, the color in kline or velazquez, the movement in vermeer or van dyck?) on the philosophical side, zeki seems willing to cite plato or hegel as straw men to knock down, but seems completely unaware of the many philosophical or social psychological theorists who could enrich his \\"active construction\\" view of visual perception. finally, zeki seems not to have had a personal colloquy with practicing artists, who could disabuse him of his naive reading of western art and its traditions.<br />psychologists will find this book to be unexpectedly thin on the facts of recent neural research and cognitive function, and lacking in philosophical depth. artists will look at zeki's simplistic reading of art and art history, shrug and wonder, what is this guy talking about?	2003-03-30
US	52938915	R3L9NMNVMM7UYO	3775708618	814704042	Camille Pissarro:	Books	5	9	11	N	Y	the first impressionist	camille pissarro gets much less notice than many of his contemporaries -- renoir, monet, degas, cezanne, van gogh, sisley -- yet in many ways he's the most interesting and innovative of the lot. born and raised in the caribbean, he emigrated to france as a young adult and worked as a productive (though often near impoverished) artist for five decades. in that time many painting fashions came and went, yet pissarro was often at the forefront of them all. one of the founding impressionists, his paintings were early on more radical than other painters working at the time (his artistic convictions cost him dearly in market success); he befriended and mentored the likes of cezanne, gauguin, signac; he was among the first to apply the science of color vision to his painting, and with much more care and insight than the mechanical dotmaking of the neo-impressionists. his influence was vital to the development of 19th century painting and is brought to life in this well written and comprehensive survey. the many full page color reproductions of his beautiful, sensitive, skillful and continually evolving paintings show the depth of his artistic sentiment and insight. pissarro is a painter who looks better in the perspective of time, and this handsome study does him full justice.	2003-03-22
US	52938915	R3OKE5QTHER8Q6	0714832472	524283920	The Story of Art	Books	5	10	10	N	Y	art history in the essentials	this is a wonderfully conceived and written history of western art from cave painting to the late 20th century. gombrich tells the story by focusing on the essential ideas or achievements characteristic of each artist and art epoch. each chapter is about 5 or 6 pages of text and several large format art reproductions (there are several fold out images of works such as botticelli's &quot;birth of venus&quot; or pollock's &quot;one&quot;). the narrative is conversational, concise, well informed, and extremely intelligent; the book reads as though you are strolling through an immense museum with gombrich at your side, commenting on paintings and sculptures as you go. <br />gombrich manages to teach the reader how to look at art at the same time he explains the main historical developments and style points of each movement or period. new students of art will find the book is a pleasurable and clear guide; experienced readers will enjoy gombrich's judicious use of detail and selection. a bibliography, chronological charts of art epochs and artists' lives, maps of europe and an index conclude the book.	2003-01-31
US	52938915	RJKGFDPAK28CA	0847823512	982711036	Caravaggio (Rizzoli Quadrifolio)	Books	1	21	25	N	Y	no, that's not this book	WARNING! the editorial reviews and reader reviews on this page have nothing to do with this book! puglisi's text is a hefty phaidon paperback; the book you buy here is a slim rizzoli hardback. the quadrifolio is actually a set of folded up posters glued into a hard binding. there is a meager introduction, no critical apparatus, no captioning or text describing the paintings, no page numbering, no table of contents, no index. the reproductions themselves are not optimally color balanced, veering sometimes toward green, sometimes toward red. fine if you want it, but don't expect puglisi's magnificent volume.	2003-01-27
US	52938915	R3026P3UNTUGZ6	0300052413	745998080	The Science of Art: Optical Themes in Western Art from Brunelleschi to Seurat	Books	5	31	33	N	Y	an eye opening book	i had the experience of being flooded with light and clarity when i first opened and browsed this book. my enthusiasm is in part because of kemp's extraordinary scholarship and detailed command of paintings and art publications across the entire span of western art. but it's also because the story of artistic imaging over the past six centuries is woven around the european romance with linear perspective, which has become so discredited and disliked by artists that it qualifies as a repressed memory. (like any buried memory, perspective surfaces in the dreamlike digital animations of intergalactic science fiction and first person computer games, which take perspective effects to the ultimate level of technical accuracy and artistic triviality.) kemp unearths those repressed perspective memories and shows how vital they were to the development of art and the connections between art and the wider culture of the times.<br /><br />it is jaw droppingly fun to see how intensive, sophisticated and singleminded was the artistic interest in optical and perceptual issues of seeing. everyone will find special surprises here, but mine include kemp's spatial analysis of velazquez's \\"las meninas,\\" and the extraordinary drawings and engravings produced c.1800, which force us to realize that we are already looking at \\"photo graphs,\\" light drawings created by hand, at a time when film photography was not yet practical. there is a large section on various optical devices utilized in visual arts, including the camera obscura and camera lucida, and an excellent section on the evolving understanding and use of color, from the renaissance to seurat.<br /><br />poignant for me was the victorian fascination with light as a spiritual quality, which comes through in turner's paintings and ruskin's amazing perspectival studies of \\"clouds\\" -- images that verge on op art. the intelligence and strength of these images reveal a road left untraveled in art, which turned toward the perceptually driven styles of impressionism and fauvism instead. as a bonus to the many interesting visual exhibits, the writing is lucid, sensible and alert. an invaluable publication.	2003-01-01
US	52938915	R1FJM7BG3C6FFA	0670030260	118805264	Secret Knowledge: Rediscovering the Lost Techniques of the Old Masters	Books	5	12	17	N	N	a study in looking	this is a terrific book. hockney's method proceeds along three paths: identifying in western works of art the visual traces left by specific kinds of projective or optical technologies; inferring the types of optical devices actually used; and reconstructing the devices to generate comparative evidence in drawings and photographs.<br /><br />this is probably the only book that compares drawings by warhol and ingres to show the fundamental similarity in their techniques. this similarity, it turns out, arises in the physical act of tracing a projected optical image. throughout there is a spirit of patient inquiry, patient accumulation of evidence, and a real fascination with artistic *craft* and imagination. the book includes many handsomely reproduced paintings and drawings (with explanatory or documentary photographs and schematics), and an extensive section of text summarizing the historical references to optical devices, and hockney's extensive correspondence with optical scientists and art historians on specific research points.<br /><br />hockney has gotten some surprisingly hostile criticism from some art historians (ingrid rowland especially), who feel he is either saying nothing new or is just smoking crack. these folks especially like to ding hockney for impugning the integrity of \\"great\\" artists, who of course could draw faultlessly without any visual aid. my two cents: there's a strong thread of professional jealousy in this reaction -- an *artist* scooping me on art history! how dare he! -- and a big dose of retrograde delusion. artists have clearly always been intrigued by technology -- dutch lenses and digital video processing alike. the real message of hockney's book is not the story of particular visual technologies, but a celebration of the artistic romance with seeing and anything that clarifies, steadies and emboldens seeing. every artist should own this book.	2003-01-01
US	52938915	RQN1OSST7RNHN	078948045X	669244370	Anatomy for the Artist	Books	4	34	38	N	Y	a excellent general reference	this is really a coffee table anatomy book, as it is centered on john davis's spectacular color photographs of physically pleasing young models, artsy anatomical illustrations of bones and muscle groups, a gallery of studio poses, and kewl design touches. (the translucent muscle diagrams are especially neat: they fold over matching full color photographs of head, limbs and torso, though the book bindery doesn't always line up the two exactly.) a bonus is the unique and interesting introductory history of anatomical studies. the coverage is broad stroke -- focusing on large muscle groups, or anatomical units such as the hand, not on individual bones or muscles. my disappointments include the appallingly skimpy treatment of facial emotions, the breezy anatomical descriptions (one gets a poor idea of individual muscle form and action), the narrow sampling of model physical types (all are gorgeous), and the fatuous gallery of simblet sketches, who likes to draw bodies piled on top of each other. for practical work, i much prefer eliot goldfinger's masterful \\"encyclopedia\\" of human anatomy for the artist, but simblet's book is easier to use as a quick or general reference and also makes a provocative browse for your dinner guests. best is to own both, and go to goldfinger if your question requires authoritative, in depth information.	2002-10-27
US	52938915	R1OGPRC1HA4ZFH	0195052064	475147828	Human Anatomy for Artists: The Elements of Form	Books	5	41	42	N	N	the best anatomy reference available	this text served me extremely well as i learned figure drawing and is the best anatomical reference i have ever seen, a genuine encyclopedia of anatomy. however, artists should be warned that the approach is analytical (anatomy is broken down into its elements) rather than illustrative (anatomy is presented as pictures of different poses). goldfinger (a sculptor) attempts to explain surface form structurally, from the inside out -- starting with individual bones, then joints, then all visible muscles, facial features (eye, mouth, nose, ear), fat pads, surface veins and arteries, skin folds and finally a gallery of \\"mass conceptions\\" of the head, hand and full figure as blocks, continuous planes, cylinders, ovoids and photographed models. (some internal musculature is omitted because it does not affect surface form, but there is extensive information and photo documentation on the facial expression of emotions, largely based on the classic research by ekman and friesen.) this \\"inside out\\" approach also determines the content of the 1 to 3 page descriptions of each bone and muscle. in the section on muscles, four diagrams show the skeletal muscle attachments, isolated muscle form, form within surrounding muscles, and surface appearance in lean models, usually from two different points of view. schematic diagrams analyze muscle form into its basic shapes, or show the mechanical effects of muscle contraction. the text is often heavy going but presents unusually detailed and clear explanations of muscle attachments, action, form and interaction with other muscles or joints. there is also much information not available anywhere else, and all sex differences in anatomy (for example in the abdominal musculature and hip bones) are described in the text. goldfinger's goal is to provide the artist with the information necessary to identify the bones and muscles contributing to surface form in any model, any physique or any pose, and i have never found it to fail that purpose.for a breezier and visually more attractive approach, simblet's book is preferable.	2002-10-27
US	52938915	R36SKQKV62KDDR	0300093438	715557536	After the Scream: The Late Paintings of Edvard Munch	Books	5	12	12	N	Y	the unknown munch	munch is an artist who became so well known for an early work (\\"the scream\\") that his later work was eclipsed by it. the fact that nearly all of his later works hang in an oslo museum hasn't helped either. so it's a real surprise to browse this exhibition catalog and discover the many beautiful paintings munch created in the half century between \\"the scream\\" (1893) and his death (1944).<br />munch's technique is very interesting: using thinned oil paints, with direct application of single layers of color, his paintings approach watercolors in their spontaneity, light, and beautifully textured color harmonies. at the same time, his themes are very personal -- his illnesses, his large estate near oslo, his lonely life painting in the countryside, his struggle with alcoholism. technique and themes combine to give his work a uniquely poignant lyricism. <br />the accompanying text on munch's life and work is well written and comprehensive. this is a great gift for someone who loves painting -- even if they know art well, munch's late works will come as a happy revelation.	2002-05-11
US	52938915	RTCO8LJ2C0H9F	0374116792	669918674	Bright Earth: Art and the Invention of Color	Books	5	23	25	N	Y	color the old fashioned way	ball's theme is disarmingly simple: that the history of western art can be illuminated by the history of the physical substances used to create color. <br />ball explains very early that his materialistic approach has often been disparaged by artists, who do not want to be seen as mere craftsmen but as visionaries and poets. his reply is simply that the luxury of buying premade paints is a relatively new phenomenon; before this century artists almost always made their own paints and for that reason understood in great detail the best ways to use them for permanency and color effects. ball describes these uses in great detail, in artists as diverse as titian, cezanne and yves klein, and the insights he provides into painting techniques are fascinating. <br />trained as a physicist and chemist, ball understands the scientific aspects of color perception and pigment manufacture, and has mastered the basics of how these are used in artworks; better yet, he can describe all these facts clearly and enjoyably, with vivid images and graceful writing. i found a few details that struck me as inaccurate or incorrectly interpreted, but as a whole the book is extremely reliable and informative, a testament to careful research and editing.<br />ball's book is well worth reading along with john gage's &quot;color and culture&quot; (a book ball quotes with approval), which focuses on the social and intellectual aspects of color in art. ball's title might be &quot;pigment and technique,&quot; since he shows that the continual appearance of new pigments opened up new technical problems, and technical possibilities, for artists to work on. this is still a relatively new approach to art history and art interpretation, but it is gaining influence: see for example james elkins's &quot;what painting is&quot; for a free interpretation of the parallels and points of contact between painting and alchemy.	2002-05-05
US	52938915	R1R47IFMN86BJN	0810941996	889219157	Egon Schiele: The Complete Works, Expanded Edition	Books	5	3	4	N	Y	schiele in depth	i admire art books that are intelligently written, present a representative and rich survey of the artist's works, and are beautifully printed. kallir's book on schiele has all this and more.<br />after wading through the fatuous, abstract and self absorbed writing that passes for art criticism nowadays it is deeply refreshing to encounter an author like jane kallir, who knows her stuff down to the most intricate footnoted fact but presents the main story with verve, clarity, insight and sympathy. as a portrait of the artist and as a history of art trends in prewar vienna, kallir's telling is searching and tightly written (kudos, too, to the editor).<br />the reproductions of several dozens of schiele's major works -- paintings and drawings -- are presented full page and full color, beautifully printed: it's possible to see the texture variations of schiele's line and the nuances of his color. browsing the work is a joy in itself. however, the real adventure is the catalog raisonne, which presents smaller format black and white images of every known work by schiele's hand (and even a few forgeries). though reduced in size -- six or so works are shown on each page -- the catalog images of the drawings are large enough to be easily legible, and the breakthroughs, variations, detours and consolidations in schiele's style are a fascinating visual story in themselves. <br />the price is high, but the book is big and heavy, and made to very high standards, so the price is fair. i'm very picky about books, and this book impressed me a lot.	2002-04-23
US	52938915	R39XDI07HDGR6R	0810941996	889219157	Egon Schiele: The Complete Works, Expanded Edition	Books	5	16	17	N	Y	schiele in depth	i admire art books that are intelligently written, present a representative and rich survey of the artist's works, and are beautifully printed. kallir's book on schiele has all this and more.<br />after wading through the fatuous, abstract and self absorbed writing that passes for art criticism nowadays it is deeply refreshing to encounter an author like jane kallir, who knows her stuff down to the most intricate footnoted fact but presents the main story with verve, clarity, insight and sympathy. as a portrait of the artist and as a history of art trends in prewar vienna, kallir's telling is searching and well told.<br />the reproductions of several dozens of schiele's major works -- paintings and drawings -- are presented full page and full color, beautifully printed: it's possible to see the texture variations of schiele's line and the nuances of his color. browsing the work is a joy in itself. however, the real adventure is the catalog raisonne, which presents smaller format black and white images of every known work by schiele's hand (and even a few forgeries). though reduced in size -- six or so works are shown on each page -- the catalog images of the drawings are large enough to be easily legible, and the breakthroughs, variations, detours and consolidations in schiele's style are a fascinating visual story in themselves. <br />the price is high, but the book is big and heavy, and made to very high standards, so the price is fair. i'm very picky about books, and this book impressed me a lot.	2002-04-23
US	52938915	R3A4LUEVR8ITEV	0811827577	453468775	Process Color Manual, 24,000 CMYK Combinations for Design, Prepress, and Printing	Books	4	40	43	N	N	a color atlas without a color index	this is a stupendous compendium of reflective color variations, presented as specific combinations of the printer's four process inks -- cyan, yellow, magenta and black. the book moves systematically across the halftone screen variations of single inks (from most saturated to near white), then two, three, and four color mixtures. two color mixstures are shown as a grid of swatches spread across two facing pages, 5% increments across the column color, and 10% increments in the rows. mixtures of three or four colors are shown stepwise across several pages.<br />i'm a painter, not a printer, but i find this guide easily as valuable as much more expensive color atlases (from munsell or the swedish ncs) as a way to analyze a specific color in terms of hue balance (as a mixture of the three subtractive primary colors CYM) and reduced saturation (increased black, or screen value below 100%). this is all i need to mix a close match using whatever paints i have available.<br />the major drawback is that although the swatches are systematically organized, there is no index or page lookup table to guide you to a specific color mixture -- each page is headed simply &quot;two (three, four) color mixture&quot;. if you know you want an orangish color (equal parts magenta and yellow), but aren't sure how bright or dull the orange should be, there is no way to find the relevant color pages adding cyan and/or black except by leafing through the book one page at a time. that's 260 pages, folks!<br />the introduction to subtractive color mixing, computer color programs and good printing practice is concise and accurate. an extremely reliable and useful, if inconvenient, reference.	2001-11-04
US	52938915	RNT4O7QP5MQFF	0486417425	732030140	Complete Guide to Watercolor Painting (Dover Art Instruction)	Books	3	108	113	N	Y	overrated but still worth having	edgar whitney was perhaps the most influential american watercolor instructor of the 20th century, and this book (first published in the 1960's) is the popular and definitive statement of his painting principles. be warned: this is actually a book on visual design, with emphasis on the &quot;six pattern schemes,&quot; the &quot;rule of good form,&quot; the seven principles and eight elements of design, and so forth; technical advice is limited to wet in wet and texturing methods, and a fine chapter on drawing, the &quot;foundation of all visual art.&quot; whitney's paintings -- which strike me as crass and histrionic -- may warn you about the level that &quot;art&quot; can sink to when it's based on simple formulas. but whitney is inspiring as a teacher, not as an artist, and his teaching is animated by a belief in the high purposes of art, the importance of craft, practice and scholarship, and by a disarming attitude of honesty and earnestness in everything he says. personally, i think the watercolor volume by skip lawrence (a whitney student) provides a better design introduction, but whitney's book is a classic -- fun to read, invaluable to refer to, and it may even improve your painting style.	2001-10-26
US	52938915	R24SRUQ0MMK9TA	1563670313	167596480	New Munsell Student Color Set	Books	5	98	100	N	Y	great introduction to color	if you are a beginning artist, an aspiring designer or just someone fascinated with color, then this is a great publication to train yourself in the many nuances of color vision.<br />the format is a small black three-ring binder of 13 white card pages, and 13 small plastic baggies of dull finish color chips, somewhat smaller than postage stamps. each page presents an empty grid of color (light to dark down the page, and dull to brilliant across it) that you must fill in manually by placing each chip in its assigned position. there are no codes or color names printed on the back of the color chips to help you along, but there is an introductory page explaining the basic concepts of hue, chroma (saturation) and value, the three basic attributes of color. <br />accompanying the binder is a staple bound color primer by joy turner luke. although the production values are pretty modest, this is one of the best overviews of color i have read anywhere, particularly for artists and designers. luke gets into the history of color research, the basics of color vision, the details of color mixing (she has some sobering critical thoughts about the many commerical &quot;artist's color wheels&quot; on the market today), color design and more.<br />the color chips are fussy to work with; they are delivered unattached to the card pages so that you can sort and rearrange them in various color tests or color demonstrations, but it's easy to mix them up. i found it most convenient to glue them into place, so that they wouldn't get lost and were ready for quick reference. that tedious exercise apart, this is a very instructive introductory resource for young adults and color students of any age.	2001-03-11
US	52938915	ROM8MBRKW3U10	0823056392	392913255	The Watercolor Book: Materials and Techniques for Today's Artists	Books	5	113	118	N	N	the best watercolor guide available	This is a model of concise instruction, wise advice, deceptively simple exercises, and compact design. Like they say on TV: if you buy just one watercolor book, make it this one. <br />Dewey gives equal emphasis to materials, theory, technique, the principles of design, and simple practice. He sees the whole art. He begins with an overview of paint manufacturers, brushes, papers and other supplies, and closes with an invitation to try mixed media and a step-by-step explanation of how to do a large studio painting. There are penetrating discussions of color theory and mixing paints, on selecting the palette for each painting, and on building a painting from value sketches. <br />The technical advice in this book is exceptionally accurate and easy to understand. The four pages explaining how to paint washes avoid the errors or omissions common in most other books. All topics are illustrated with pictures that add information rather than decorate the page. Dewey includes several traditional techniques that other methods don't mention: pen and ink wash drawings, value design sketches, using a sketchbook, monochrome paintings, color chords for color design, the &quot;color&quot; of gray, and much more. The book is so compactly organized that many gems of advice are tucked in the picture captions; the book can be studied repeatedly and still teach something new. <br />Dewey has painted the student lessons and technical examples displayed throughout the book. The more advanced lessons build on simple but beautifully designed demonstration paintings (my favorite is the still life on a patterned rug).  Everything comes together in a harmonious vision of watercolor art, a reference and inspiration for many hours of happy experimentation and learning.	2001-02-15
US	52938915	R26CUB4APNVSED	0967962803	270071315	The Wilcox Guide To The Best Watercolor Paints	Books	1	37	44	N	Y	shoddy, recycled work	available space doesn't permit a detailed dissection of this new (2001-2) edition of the wilcox guide, but the gist is this: wilcox does not in fact test paints for their permanence to exposure to light (lightfastness), he merely recycles the ratings created by a standards testing body, the ASTM. the &quot;testing&quot; that wilcox apparently has done is to brush out color samples to evaluate how &quot;gummy&quot; they are -- gumminess, in the wilcox world, being a bad thing.<br />wilcox nowhere describes his testing methods, nor the procedures he uses to obtain and prepare paint samples for evaluation, nor his procedures to corroborate information obtained from the manufacturers. discontinued and reformulated paints, including paints by manufacturers that have gone out of business, are thrown in with current offerings, apparently to convince us that this is an encyclopedic reference. who would want a consumer report on cars that included an evaluation of the ford pinto?<br />in some cases the ASTM ratings are in error, and wilcox simply parrots this misinformation. the ASTM tested a single sample of a pigment, yet wilcox applies this single rating to every paint that contains the pigment. this is simply reckless. pigment lightfastness varies according to pigment particle size, among other things, and particle size depends on how the paint was manufactured by each paint company. wilcox is apparently oblivious to these nuances in materials testing in his sloppy efforts to appear comprehensive.<br />a professional editor could have helped with the many nontechnical flaws in the book -- reining in wilcox's penchant for juvenile sarcasm, for one thing, and providing a better organization for the paint information. the printed paint samples bear no resemblance to the actual paint appearance; paints are organized by &quot;color&quot; categories (such as &quot;vermilion&quot; or &quot;gamboge&quot;) that jumble together different pigments and different paint hues. paint brands are not even alphabetized within each color section. <br />no artist should rely on the paint ratings in the wilcox book. the hilary page guide is serviceable, if somewhat outdated. at least she tested the paints, describes her tests, and produced a credible reference in doing so. the wilcox book is something altogether different.	2001-02-02
US	52938915	R2KGWGQMDBOZZL	0823039137	250759938	Painter's Guide to Color	Books	2	134	141	N	Y	confusing new color mixing book	this is stephen quiller's sequel to &quot;color choices&quot; with the addition of new information about neutral mixtures (Jean Dobie's &quot;mouse power&quot;), color value and intensity (saturation), color  families, &quot;mother color&quot;, and the latest version of quiller's  color mixing wheel, one of the best available. but i was disappointed. the  book suffers from a mechanical approach to color mixing or color families  -- in some cases, the text of captions or whole sections is identical, with  color keywords repeatedly changed. this edition deletes some of the best  chapters in &quot;color choices,&quot; such as the chapter on &quot;finding  your own vision,&quot; adding in its place a bizarre section on &quot;color  personalities&quot; (each mixed color is associated with adjectives such as  &quot;noble&quot; or &quot;playful&quot;). and quiller recommends a  28-paint (!) palette, which will create more confusion for a painter  (especially a beginning painter) than all the mixing instructions can clear  away. i suggest you browse this book before you buy it: &quot;color  choices&quot; is better overall, and you can order quiller's revised color  wheel from him directly, on a plastic card that is more durable than the  tear-out version that comes with this book.	2000-05-19
US	52938915	R87MXQSP7IV6H	0823006964	585367938	Color Choices Making Color Sense Out of Color Theory	Books	5	174	180	N	Y	excellent guide to color	quiller's guide is the most systematic color text available. it combines a deep knowledge of traditional color theories with a huge amount of quiller's personal research into how paints actually mix as colors. central  to the book is quiller's color mixing wheel for watercolors, oils and  acrylics, probably the most accurate color wheel available in any published  work (though he has a revised color wheel, available separately). he  explores the monochrome, analogous, complementary and split complementary  color schemes through many demonstration paintings and detailed mixing  instructions. he emphasizes repeatedly the importance of a strong value  composition, and careful variations in color saturation, in building the  painting. an indispensible book.	1999-12-25
US	52938915	R32SPJ40FKBI0C	0140150625	606795763	The Portable Nietzsche (Portable Library)	Books	5	5	6	N	N	best translations of the best Nietzsche	this is perhaps the best single volume edition of nietzsche's works. from the 1960's on the late walter kaufmann took on the daunting task of making the first accurate translations of nietzche into english, identifying  serious errors in the &quot;scholarly&quot; german texts as he did so, and  rehabilitating nietzsche's intellectual reputation in a post-wwii culture  that thought of him as a 'proto-nazi'. today these are still the finest  translations of nietzsche available -- models of dogged scholarship,  generally very accurate, yet stylistically amazingly spirited and  convincing as well. (hollingdale, by comparison, comes off as wooden and  wordy.) the range of works here is extreme -- from the poetical, dense  &quot;zarathustra&quot; to the lucid and elementary &quot;twilight&quot;  and &quot;antichrist,&quot; which together provide an excellent summary of  nietzsche's basic ideas and deliciously clear examples of his treacherously  paralogical argumentative methods. nietzsche, like freud, proceeded by  telling fables, and philosophy has never been the same since. kaufmann's  notes are excellent, particularly for the cryptic symbolism of  &quot;zarathustra&quot;. (note: kaufmann's translations of nietzsche's more  academic, formal texts are gathered in his &quot;basic nietzsche,&quot;  which i also highly recommend.)	1999-11-30
US	52938915	R3QSXFUGW3F5G3	0958789185	190618330	The Artist's Guide to Selecting Colors	Books	1	56	69	N	N	recycled summary of stale views	michael wilcox deserves credit as one of the pioneers of modern standards in art materials. but he has overstayed his usefulness, and it badly shows in this book. wilcox does not discuss *pigments*, which are the actual  chemicals that create paint color (and lose color if poorly made), because  pigments have been updated since he wrote his first book, and he has not  bothered to test the new pigments available. but what he calls  &quot;colors&quot; are not paints either, so he does not review any  specific paints made by specific manufacturers. he's left in the pitiable  position of reviewing &quot;colors&quot; such as burnt sienna that vary  widely from one manufacturer to another, or &quot;colors&quot; such as  &quot;chrome yellow&quot; that no one makes anymore; advising us that each  color is &quot;usually&quot; well made or poorly made, and implying  whenever convenient that artists who use poor &quot;colors&quot; are stupid  and paint manufacturers who make them are unscrupulous. at present hilary  page's book is the only reliable, up to date and thoroughly researched  paint guide available.	1999-09-22
US	52938915	RYF07P9DBH4Y4	0891348778	506625797	Basic Watercolor Answer Book	Books	5	10	10	N	N	a liberating basic watercolor guide	if you are starting out in watercolors, or want to rebuild your technique from the basics, this is an excellent book to consider. anderson brilliantly uses the &quot;frequently asked questions&quot; format, with  many side bars and captioned photos, to present a great amount of accurate  information and wise advice in a casual and exploratory way. she can point  with pictures, offer lists, respond to queries, and throw in marginal  comments. but she doesn't lose her way. she starts by explaining watercolor  papers, then brushes, and after a simple demonstration painting to get you  to use the different brushes effectively, she's off into color, color  mixing, value, and composition. throughout she repeats that &quot;there are  no rules,&quot; that it's good to take risks, and that mistakes can be  creative opportunities. a special book not quite like any other ... and  worth owning, whatever your skill in painting, for anderson's gentle and  artistic spirit.	1999-09-22
US	52938915	R24PIW183IBCT2	0891347097	829792213	Capturing Light in Watercolor	Books	5	43	43	N	Y	a beautiful wise book	i devoured this book with the same pleasure i'd get from reading a beautiful children's book. the illustrations -- step by step images of simandle paintings in process -- are beautiful to look at. the stories --  how to put together a painting, from first sketches to last touches of  detail -- are simple and engaging. simandle's approaches to brushwork  (including the palette knife), mixing colors, preserving white and  developing visual rhythms are well worth learning. a very fine guide for  the intermediate painter looking for more poetry in their watercolor  technique ... one of my favorite watercolor books.	1999-09-22
US	52938915	R1KF48CXI2BOVR	0891344098	270071315	The Wilcox Guide to the Best Watercolor Paints (Information to the artist)	Books	1	28	32	N	Y	out-of-date tirade	wilcox did artists a tremendous service when he first published this book: his emphasis on lightfast paints (that don't fade when exposed to light), his strong endorsement of the quinacridone pigments, and his tireless  research -- this woke up the art materials industry and is responsible for  the high quality of today's watercolor paints. but the book has aged badly:  almost all the information is out of date (daniel smith and m. graham  paints are not listed, current paint lines are completely changed from what  is shown in the book, etc.). and then there are the endless tirades against  alizarin crimson and the chartjunky outlines of paint tubes -- this gets  tedious very quickly. if you need a paint products guide, get instead the  hilary page guide to watercolor paints, which is current, informative, and  friendly to use.	1999-08-28
US	52938915	R18MP8KYYPD9UI	0823022617	9884784	Hilary Page's Guide to Watercolor Paints	Books	5	64	64	N	N	atlas of color	this book represents a stupefying amount of research on nearly all commercially available watercolor pigments. the text begins with an overview of the color wheel (reduced to a color &quot;triangle&quot;  anchored on the subtractive color primaries RYB), then marches through the  colors in sectional sequence. each section opens with a survey of pigment  development and a separate discussion of specific pigments. every pigment  from each manufacturer is represented by an identical color swatch  footprint, showing a graded wash and a wet-on-wet blossom, keyed to  lightfastness tests and the actual pigment ingredients of the paint. the  swatch commentaries reveal some clear biases (the same pigment is described  as &quot;toxic&quot; or &quot;not lightfast&quot; under one manufacturer  but as &quot;a beautiful color&quot; under another), but for a work of this  scope the level of accuracy is stunning. it's revealing to finally  comprehend how variable a &quot;type of paint&quot; such as hooker's green  actually is, the diversity of names for the same pigment (such as phthalo  blue), and the sheer abundance of unique pigments available in the blues,  yellows and reds. overall a work of tremendous craftsmanship, perseverence  and care. essential for any serious watercolor painter.	1999-02-12
US	52938915	R1RTBLS188VW27	0823056414	206256231	Watercolor Book: Materials and Techniques for Today's Artist (Materials & techniques)	Books	5	9	9	N	N	a watercolor classic	a comprehensive, knowledgeable, concise survey of watercolor technique and the art theory necessary to watercolor painting. some essential techniques, such as wet-on-wet washes, receive a one-page treatment that encapsulates  all text, illustrations, and photos for that topic; others are repeated as  themes throughout the discussion. the demonstration paintings are simple  and inviting for a beginner to imitate, yet all of them -- my favorites are  niagra falls, the japanese arch and the still life on a rug -- are  masterfully composed and build from value sketches and compositional  studies to show how to think a painting through. the section on color  theory is the most coherent and pointed i have ever seen. the sections on  materials (paints, brushes, papers, by type and by brand) are excellent  too. a marvellous book, a classic of its kind.	1999-02-12
US	52938915	R2RERZQXKR6OQ4	1883011191	726622050	Nabokov: Novels 1955-1962: Lolita / Pnin / Pale Fire (Library of America)	Books	5	34	36	N	N	Nabokov's Best	This is a compact, sturdy and high quality edition of the first novels Nabokov wrote entirely in English. It's the central volume in a three-volume set of Nabokov's autobiography and English fiction (excluding the short stories), including his finest achievements -- Lolita, Pnin and Pale Fire. The two versions of Lolita (as novel and screen adaptation) are illuminating to read together: the novel is created within Humbert's subjective and self-serving memory, while in the screenplay Nabokov reimagines the story as objective action. I was also intrigued to find that some obvious departures from the novel in Kubrick's film -- such as the opening scene of Humbert shooting Quilty, or the high school prom scene -- are ideas taken from the Nabokov screenplay (in turn fragments of the novel excised in the final version). Brian Boyd offers an impeccable text, much improved over the paperback editions, with a chronology of the author's life. This is the volume to choose if you unravel Nabokov's narrative patterns with your own marginal notes and comments, and want a volume that won't disintegrate in a nymphet's span of years.	1998-08-05
US	52938915	R2YK7AW2Q7ESP2	0679457860	636015448	Lolita	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Love, tragedy and destiny in 300 pages	This is a marvellous, deep book, one of the few books I've read straight through each time I pick it up.<br />Jeremy Irons' reading of the complete text is wry, nimble, searching and delicious. A must hear! <br />Lolita is lovely because many themes thread through it in a unique combination of light-and-shadow plot and harmoniously chosen words. The plot highlights the dismal difference between love and lust; the many kinds of betrayed love and confidence that radiate from Humbert's (villain) lust and Lolita's (victim) rejection; there's a panoramic background of American mid-century landscape and culture; the weird mystery story of the Aztec Red convertible and Humbert's cunning &quot;brother&quot; in pedophilic crime; there is the guilt of destroying a loved one in the act of fulfilling one's desires; most of all, there is the overarching idea that &quot;mirage and reality merge in love.&quot;<br />It's in this iridescent misty landscape between fantasy and reality that Naboko! v's love affair with English creates breathtaking passages of clarity, comedy and moral pain.	1998-07-21
