US	52935224	RQE25DKA6UK61	0671775928	753507601	December 6: A Novel	Books	3	5	8	N	N	Interesting concept but....	Author Martin Cruz Smith had a great idea for his novel:  What was it like to be in Japan, specifically Tokyo, in the 48 hours before Pearl Harbor.  From this setting the author has concocted a tale of intrique, mystery, and sometimes confusion, all through the eyes of Harry Niles, son of Baptist missionaries in Japan, who has become more Japanese than American.  Some flashbacks illuminate his early years and suggest some of the reasons why Harry turned out to be an owner of a nightclub, a person who wheels and deals with both Japanese officials and Westerners, and manages to juggle a couple of love affairs--if that is the right term for Harry's involvement. <br /> <br />The good things about December 6 include some fairly convincing atmospherics of pre-war Tokyo, a story that in the last third of the book moves briskly and with some excitement, and an ending that fits the protagonist and the various people who have an \\"interest\\" in Harry.  The book points out the strains of the economic straightjacket that Japan found itself on the eve of WWII, caused by the restrictions on oil imports,  and thus the use of inefficient charcoal burners to provide fuel for essential transportation and other limitations. <br /> <br />What is less fulfilling is the idea that Harry, shadowy character that he is, would be able to pull together enough information (and guesses) to predict the attack on Pearl Harbor.  Harry acts as if he is the Savior of Mankind, even attempting to gain access to the American ambassador, who is playing golf and ignores him, about the dastardly plot underway.  Although Harry is satisfying as a character, many of the others are cardboard cut-outs, e.g. the American ambassador, the dialogue occasinally lapses into expressions that were not common until late in the 20th Century, and the character of Ishigame, the Japanese officer whose great talent is severing heads, and his pursuit of Harry because of \\"lost face\\" in an earlier encounter with Harry during the\\"Rape of Nanking.\\"  [Yes, Harry did get around, a fly on the wall of history!].   <br /> <br />Most readers will find the book an interesting snapshot of Japan in late 1941, the nuanced protrait of Harry and some of his associates, including the mysterious Michiko--the girl friend from hell.  But one is left with the impression: Couldn't this have been a better novel with a little less derring-do and a bit more research on the actual events of the pre-Pearl Harbor days?	2005-03-03
US	52935224	R2P62MGBBQ84R8	0393035158	2927274	The End of Faith: Religion, Terror, and the Future of Reason	Books	2	10	46	N	N	We were all young once	Sam Adams is a doctoral candidate who has written an earnest tract about the evils of organized religion and the beauty of rationality in resolving the world's ills.  As I read it, the image of college bull sessions about the \\"meaning of it all,\\" and similar ruminations came to mind.  In 30 years or so, Mr. Adams may look back at his initial effort and say:  \\"Ah, but I was young then.\\" <br /> <br />This is a time-worn argument, and organized religion certainly presents a broad target for attack.  But the case is greatly weakened by assuming that all followers of organized religion are fundamentalist literalists who believe in \\"myths\\" and other unprovable beliefs.  Adams seems to forget that while in the name of religion much harm has been done, also in the name of religion much of what we call western Civilization has evolved through the efforts of the Church.  Islam, too, and other religions have provided the foundations for not only personal behavior, but also the stimulation of culture.   <br /> <br />The idea that rationality and scientific reasoning will make us all happy and secure, or at least point us in the right direction, is also an old idea that motivates individuals.   But the arguments in all this are too often simplistic and formulistic to engage one seriously.  One is tempted to say, despite all of the research and the undoubted truth of many of his statements, \\"...come off it; enough already!\\"	2005-03-01
US	52935224	RXM5VK1C9DW51	1577363418	250128992	9/11 and Terrorist Travel: A Staff Report of the National Commission on Terrorist Attacks Upon the United States	Books	5	16	18	N	N	A Must for Anyone Interested in National Securitiy	Anyone interested in national security affairs and in particular the events leading up to the September 11, 2001 attacks should have this volume on their reference shelf.  The book is very well written and each topic  addressed is done so comprehensively and non--judgmentally.  Even if the reader is not interested in the nuts and bolts of counterterrorism policy and who did what and when, the first chapter alone \\"We have some Planes\\" that goes into great detail about the four aircraft on that September morning is well worth the modest price.   It's chilling stuff, worthy of a good fiction writer in building suspence.  Also intriquing are details throughout a couple of chapters as to what the main highjackers were doing, their motivations, travel, and other background material. <br /> <br />What is particularly useful for those who have or are involved in security matters is the extensive end notes, some119 pages, that source nearly every paragraph and statement.  Those interviewed, and I know several of them, were those involved in various intelligence aspects of the overall failure to piece together what was about to happen.   <br /> <br />The authors do not try to identify scapegoats.  Shortcomings of the process, of individuals, of coordination, and of various agencies are pointed out, but no overall blame is pasted on any one individual or agency.  One of the highly useful sections of the report is to shoot down some of the wilder stories associated with the events, such as the alleged Mohammad Atta meeting with an Iraqi intelligence officer in Prague, in April 2001, a \\"connection\\" that Vice President Cheney has held on to for so long.  Other issues, such as the return to Saudi of bin Laden family members and others two or three days after 9/11 are gone into.  Whether the explanation that the FBI interviewed those who they thought might have some information will satisfy all critics remains to be seen.   <br /> <br />The Commission's recommendations are spelledout in detail.  People will have to be knowledgable to some extent on the relationships of the intelligence agencies, the Congress, and the Executive Branch as to whether all recommendations make sense.  This report together with the Senate Intelligence Committee's report on Iraq intelligence are extremely valuable resources for anyone interested in how are national securitiy system works, its shortcomings, and recommendations as to how to improve performance.	2004-10-13
US	52935224	R14VOLW2RS1BLY	0694523488	657088689	The Wailing Wind	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Pleasant but not Hillerman's Best	As a reader of many of Hillerman's mysteries, though none within the past several years, I was glad to read once more of Joe Leaphorn, now retired, Jim Chee, and Officer Manuelito.  The novel begins simply with Officer Manuelito dispatched to an abandoned car in a remote location where she finds a murder victim.  From there the plot evolves into the search for a lost gold mine, an old murder case, a wife who has disappeared a number of years ago, and, of course, various references and ties into ancient Navajo and Zuni cultural practices. <br />The book is short and I missed the detail into the New Mexican environment--of storms, of wind, and other descriptive lore that evokes the area--that Hillerman usually brings to his novels.  Also, here and there the novel seemed a bit jumpy and not the smoothest plotting, as if Hillerman, now well into his 70s, is writing more from instinct, on autopilot, rather than from any great creative rush.  Even so, a so-so Hillerman book is more satisfying than many of his contemporaries, and it is a relief to get away from the violence, nastiness, and loveless sex scenes all too often featured in other mysteries.	2004-07-02
US	52935224	R14I2KFNJAEP70	0066213991	40402286	Seldom Disappointed	Books	4	12	12	N	N	Disappointed?  Not at all!	I've enjoyed reading many of Tony Hillerman's mysteries which are more about understanding bits of pieces of Native American culture in the high mountain country of New Mexico and the interactions of individuals, a nice contrast to the fast-paced, urban-setting mysteries rife with sex, violence, and foul-mouthed bad guys of many mystery authors.  His memoir will delight his many fans because the picture it paints is one of an unassuming person who grew up in the poverty of the Great Depression, did more than his share as an infantry grunt in WWII, and relates his post-war life with his beloved wife, Marie, with warmth and modesty.  <br />The book is plain and simply written and Hillerman's self-effacing demeanor sets it apart from the memoirs of other authors and artists who see the world only through the prism of their own egos.  Hillerman does not reflect deeply on What It All Means, but merely relates in matter-of-fact fashion a journey through life. <br />His infantry tour describing the conditions in the bitter winter of 1944-45 concludes that Army Intelligence was seldom correct, the West Pointers directing the war were often but dimly aware of what was really needed, e.g., winter garb for what turned out to be the snowiest winter in Western Europe in 40 years, and that confusion and ignorance were constant companions.  His \\"grunt\\" experiences are comparable to those described in more detail, and with much more reflection, by Raymond Gantler in his fine book,\\"Roll Me Over\\" written soon after WWII, of similar situations and experiences.<br />Hillerman's post-war experiences of university life, journalism, and, finally, his quest to be a novelist make up the final third of the memoir.  Particularly interesting for budding novelists, and particularly those who have read his novels, are how incidents, individuals, and other miscellaneous happenings provide grist for what happens to Joe Leaphorn and Jim Chee in their adventures.<br />In sum, Hillerman's account ofhis life is an honest, often moving account of an unassuming man who has realized his ambitions and cares to share a bit of this with others.  A hard-to-put down book.	2004-06-11
US	52935224	R63BQHO9O4MK0	0743536517	937109510	The Price of Loyalty: George W. Bush, the White House, and the Education of Paul O'Neill	Books	4	32	34	N	N	Sometimes Candor Doesn't Win	Note:  My wife and I knew Paul and Nancy O'Neill very well when they lived in Washington during the period from 1965-1977, and we've seen them a number of times since; we also received a copy of the \\"Price of  Loyalty\\" from them on the day of publication.  <br />The \\"Price of Loyalty\\" is pure Paul O'Neill, a man who is problem-oriented, wants all of the facts and where analysis of them leads.  The answers are sometimes \\"liberal,\\" sometimes \\"conservative.\\"  In other words he is results oriented, regardless of the political slant or consequences.  When he returned to Washington in 2001, he apparently expected the collegial days of the past when he, Cheney, Rumsfeld, and Greenspan were working in the Nixon-Ford Administrations during which time policy issues were hammered out.  Both Nixon and Ford were well informed of the policies that were being proposed; both entered in and led discussions as to how policies should shaped and implemented.<br />Times did change.  Cheney and Rumsfeld's views had solidified; new ideas were not welcomed, particularly by Cheney whose stint as head of Halliburton seems to have caused him to believe that only the Rich and Powerful should inhabit the earth.  And as the O'Neill memoranda made availalbe to Suskind show, plus interviews with others in the Administration, George W. Bush is not one to engage in details-oriented discussion nor does he do \\"nuance\\" or, apparently, much heavy thinking at all.  <br />The book reads as someone wrote like a mystery where the naive protagonist is telling his problems to a presumed confidant, Dick Cheney, who turns out to be the mole, thus putting the protagonist in great danger.  In short this is a revealing book about Paul O'Neill, particularly to those who didn't know him, of this Administration's mindsets and philosophy, and of the chilling way that policy decisions have been sacrified on the alter of political ideaology--and damn the consequences.  <br />Perhaps the most important part of the book is the account of the frequent meetings between O'Neill and Greenspan, their common views as to the wisdom of the taxcuts without some assurance that the surplusses would in fact materialize, and their agreement about the need for real corporate reform at the top--and of the wish-washy product that came out instead.  <br />Not all things are mentioned in the book.  The O'Neill relunctance to close down the off-shore banking loopholes enjoyed by corporations is one.  And although mentioned, it is strange that O'Neill with his previous Washington experience and presumed knowledge of the sensitivity of financial markets and the weight of statements by US Treasury Secretaries would blurt out often \\"truths\\" that would cause adverse reactions--and clarifications the next day--at home and abroad.<br />But congratulations to Paul O'Neill for allowing someone like Suskind to take his record as Treasury Secretary and to produce a book that gives ordinary citizens a close-up view of how this Administration works.  It's good for American democracy, even if the current inhabitants of the White House and Executive Office buildings adjacent are undoubtedly unhappy.	2004-02-19
US	52935224	R3I9TMB9L5EFKI	5555711832	797444854	Flights of Passage	Books	4	3	3	N	N	A realistic account of Americans going to war	Samuel Hynes, professor emiterius of literature at Princeton University, went to war in 1943--there simply was no alternative as he says--and in time graduated from flight school as a Marine pilot of a TBM, a torpedo bomber used for several types of missions.  <br />To those who went through flight school during WWII, his accounts of the trials, and sometimes failures, of a flying officer in training ring authentic, as does the sometimes pettiness of the armed forces and the hurry-up-and-wait process that dogged us as we impatiently waited to get into action.  He also details the drinking, the sexual adventures, and other less savory, perhaps, actions of men at war.  When he finally arrived overseas in early 1945, the actual combat was somewhat of an anti-climax.  No great aerial battles, relatively few losses, and much relatively routine patrol work. In fact, the most terrifying event was after the war when a giant typhoon hit Okinawa and his base.    As is true of those in service, he seems oblivious of the war other than his own small part.  He was stationed, for example, on Saipan in April for two weeks or so awaiting assignment, but makes no mention of the many B-29 operations from there or neighboring Tinian against Japan. <br />A curious thing about the book is that before he went overseas, he was married.  Viritually nothing is said of his wife, her letters, of the relationship.  Much more is said of he and his Marine buddies trying to obtain booze and other leisure pursuits, in addition to combat..  Perhaps Hynes marriage was one of those wartime marriages that didn't last.  On the other hand, maybe it's none of our business since Hynes' purpose is to try and give one a realistic view of training to go to war and the event itself.  In this regard he succeeds brilliantly.	2003-11-30
US	52935224	R1FQ17HFT5X8BL	0688143806	380093282	Darkness, Take My Hand	Books	4	0	0	N	N	An Aptly Titled Mystery	Dennis Lehane is an acclaimed mystery writer whose recent novel, Mystic River, has been made into a current hit movie.  Before Mystic River, however, Lehane was exploring Boston's dark and gritty underside in a series featuring PI's Patrick Kenzie and Angela Gennaro.  Darkness, Take My Hand, is the second of the series and the first Lehane I've read.<br />The novel starts simply enough with a request from psychiatrist, Diandra Warren, who has received a threat against her son and who wants the PI duo to discover the nature of the threat.  At first, Patrick and Angie seem to be  normal human beings simply doing a job, though sexual tension between the two is suggested, but as the novel progresses both are revealed to have had troubled lives touched by, yes, darkness.  But violence soon erupts in a series of murders, dismemberments, and other grotesque events.  With them emerges a passel of pathological misfits, all of whom seem to have some connections with one another in their dark corner of Boston.  The FBI enters the picture; so do the local police.  The book is not the type to read hit and miss inasmuch as the complexities of plot and the large cast of nasties are difficult to keep track of.  Sex is also present in graphic terms and scenes.  <br />Lehane seems to be saying that we can never escape the past, the hurts, the disappointments, the brutalities of life.  This is not a book for the squeamish or those whose idea of mysteries is the British-style cozies of gentility and manners.  So be forwarned.  But if you like dipping into the darkness (there, I've used that word again!) of the soul and the depraved thoughts, words, and deeds of some  members of the human race, then read this novel.  If not, leave it on the library shelf.	2003-11-25
US	52935224	R15MURXQK3HPSM	0007118481	348065840	TO END ALL WARS	Books	5	101	102	N	Y	Inspiring Account of Perservence over Adversity	This account of how a young Scot, captured by the Japanese in April, 1942, managed to survive the brutal treatment accorded POWs under Japan's control has endured long after Ernest Gordon's imprisonment ended, and will continue to endure and influence readers for more years to come.  This book, originally published over 40 years ago, was one of the sources for the highly popular movie of that era, &quot;Bridge Over the River Kwai,&quot; and the more recent &quot;To End All Wars.&quot; <br />Some parts of this book are very difficult to read as Gordon, a Captain in a Scottish regiment, spares no detail as he relates the physical trauma, the diseases, the wretched conditions imposed by their captors and the senseless, sometimes unbelievable treatment by the guards of their captives .  How to survive this vertiable hell hole?  As he notes, without some sort of discipline and some moral compass for guidance, many men gave up hope and died.  But Gordon found within the prison camp two people who selflessly gave of themselves when Gordon was literally at death's door to help restore him to physical health, of people who washed his sores, encouraged, prodded, and inspired.  Through the faith of these two, one a Methodist, the other a Roman Catholic, Gordon reinvestigated the New Testament and from that learned and acted out the commandment to &quot;love others&quot;, even including the brutal Japanese guards, as he would love himself.  Using these simple teachings of love, encouragement, and selfless help to your neighbor, Gordon and others in the various camps were able to overcome the horrific conditions under which they existed. The melding of the spiritual and the discipline of order, neatness, and cooperation saw the POWs triumph over the evil of the system under which they existed.  <br />The first part of the book describing Gordon's efforts to escape--he and others bought a sailing vessel that managed to get them half way to Ceylon--is an exciting read in itself.The second half, the journey into hell and return, is thought provoking and inspiring.  It is also difficult for those who served in the Pacific theater, as I did, as to how and if I would have survived if I had had to bail out over Japan and was imprisoned.  A sobering thought that one does not want to revisit for long.  <br />Gordon came home to Scotland, entered the ministry, and served for many years as Dean of the Chapel, Princeton  University.  May he Rest in Peace.	2003-09-02
US	52935224	R25G3ZA0AACEUO	0595167039	806714919	A Wing and a Prayer: The "Bloody 100th" Bomb Group of the U.S. Eighth Air Force in Action over Europe in World War II	Books	5	13	13	N	N	One of the best accounts of the Air War in Europe	Harry Crosby's account of the 100th Bomb Group and the air war against Naze Germany from mid-1943 till the end is one of the most informative and thoughtful memoirs of those dark days.  Crosby relates many stories in his accounts, of his own experiences as a navigator, of the impact that Curtis LeMay and other group commanders had on combat techniques, of the sometimes touchy relationships between AAF personnel and their British hosts, and some thoughtful observations of the nature of war and the overall bombing campaign.<br />Crosby with a degree in English and considerable writing experience writes lucid, stripped-down prose, and his accounts of  navigating under difficult circumstances brought a reality than few other accounts--written mainly by former pilots--have done. His story of an early mission to Trondheim, in Norway, is a gem of the navigator's problems--of unexpected cloud cover, of flying over Norway where, as Hobler put it, one fjiord from the air looks like another, and the element of luck and chance in any mission.  As a WWII navigator in the Pacific, these types of details were welcome, as was his understanding of the \\"place\\" of navigator's in the AAF pecking order.  When I was informed in December 1945 that I was on a preferred list of those to man the postwar Air Force, I politely declined knowing that navigators would be highly unlikely to advance at the rate of pilots.  (I did, however, remain the reserves for 20 years}.<br />What comes through most clearly, however, was the terrible losses that the 8th suffered in its campaign against Germany's manufacturing capacity and infrastructure, and of the courage and perseverence of those who served.  The 100th BG, for example, arrived in midyear, 1943, with 35 crews; only one intact crew completed 25 missions, though a few other crew members from crews broken up because of casualities and other reasons also survived.  Was it worth it?  Did the damage done justify the loss in life, not only of the aircrews but also those of German civilians and others killed by the raids.  Crosby is a bit ambilavent--he joined the anti-war movement in the 1960s.  Nonetheless, no one can take away from the aircrews, and those who did not return, their courage and belief that they were part of a grand but terrible endeavor to bring the war to an end and of  the demented policies of Hitler and his Nazi cohorts .  May they rest in peace.	2003-07-16
US	52935224	R2T7800YIRHA1N	0380788764	61531402	Charm City (Tess Monaghan Novel)	Books	2	11	17	N	N	An Uneven Read	I picked up Laura Lippman's &quot;Charm City&quot; because several of her mysteries had been nominated for awards and the locale was Baltimore--a city I have some knowledge about.<br />Perhaps this book, the second in the Tess Monaghan series, is not up to the level of Lippman's other offerings.  For me, the mystery didn't work that well for several reasons.  One was that Tess, the ex-reporter, and now an aspiring P.I, though without a license, seemed to be living rather well for one without, one assumes, much of an income.  Her youthful boyfriend/lover Crow, a rock star, just didn't come across as much of a personality--though I admit that perhaps due to age I have my biases toward rock stars and their lifestyles.  <br />Other points:  the writing is sometimes ok, sometimes a graceful sentence; but mostly the prose seems jumpy and inconsistent.  The plot holds some interest, though it takes most of the book to juice up interest.  Mystery types also will be put out with the third-person narrator voice, and the lack of a logical ladder of evidence that would permit one to deduce  the identity of the culprit.  <br />Ms. Lippman does have Tess trip around many familar Baltimore spots, and her descriptions of what Tess eats indicates that the author enjoys food.  <br />Perhaps another in the series might be a better read.  But based on &quot;Charm City,&quot; I think I'll look elsewhere.	2003-07-15
US	52935224	R3WGQQNHGFPBB	0375508260	649819248	Paris 1919: Six Months That Changed the World	Books	5	0	3	N	N	A book of history that illuminates problems of today	It is difficult to find a book of history so relevant to today's problems facing the United States in the Middle East, the Balkans, and elsewhere.  Marget MacMillian has written such a book, an extraordinaryly vivid acount recreating the time, mood, hopes, and fears as the victorious Allied powers attempted in Paris in the months following the November Armistic to sort out all of the geopolitical wildfires that faced them.  MacMillian adeptly sketches the personalities of the Big Four: of Wilson's self-rightenous and his inability to compromise his beloved Fourteen Points; the pragmatic and sometimes shallow Lloyd George who often acted as broker between opposing views; of Clemenceu, the old \\"tiger,\\" whose nation had suffered the most and who attempted to moderate the desire for vengance caused by Germany in northern France [she notes that French trains carrying German diplomats to Paris moved with ordered glacial slowness through the battle-scarred terrain of France] with French larger international interests; and, finally, Italy's Orlando, given to emotional appeals, who often was bypassed by the others. <br />One of the multitude of problems facing the Allies was what to do with Turkey, the former \\"sick man of Europe,\\" whose empire had collapsed during the war, and particularly with the Middle East.  The Brits took Palestine and the legacy of the earlier Balfour Declaration proposing a Jewish homeland there, and also Mesopotamia, now Iraq, which the British knew, but not the French, contained oil reserves. France took control of Syria and Lebanon.  The newly formed Iraq, however, proved difficult to govern and civil unrest caused British troops to scour the countryside, with Churchill complaining that \\"We are at our wit's end to find a single soldier,\\" [of the opposition], and of British newspapers complaining about the amount of money being spent on securing Iraq when more pressing domestic problems were underfunded.  A familar ring? <br />*  Macmillan also notes how the idealism of the Fourteen Points fired the flames of nationalism and anti-colonialism.<BR>*  The tremendous amount of work done by behind-the-scenes expert's groups, attempting to redraw boundaries in the aftermath of the demise of the Austro-Hungarian Empire, and a multitude of other territorial problems.<BR>*  The press of internal politics that caused Lloyd George and Wilson to periodically return home, leaving the peacemaking to underlings.<BR>*  How fatigue and the press of so many details upon the decisionmakers often led to hasty, unwise decisions based less on facts and merits than on tiredness and a self-imposed \\"get-it-done\\" imperative.<br />These are only a few of the many points MacMillan covers in her book.  It might be noted that MacMillan is the great-granddaughter of Lloyd George--but it is clear that George is cut no slack in exposing his weaknesses.  MacMillan's sourcing is fine, she writes a good sentence, even at times with a bit of humor, and although the size of the book may cause readers to pause, the effort is worthwhile.  This is a keeper book for use as a reference.	2003-07-14
US	52935224	R1WLHKXXBF0WYI	1400040930	575332371	Of Paradise and Power: America and Europe in the New World Order	Books	5	16	23	N	Y	An Important Analysis of America versus Europe	Robert Kagan's slim book, an expanded version of an essay appearing originally in \\"Policy Review,\\" is a brilliant assessment of the relationship between Western Europe and the United States and the reasons for the differing outlooks and the resulting policies.  Essentially, Kagan views the problem as one in which since World War II the United States has had predominant military power, Europe far less and in recent times European military strength has waned due to America's increasing and vastly superior military technology.  Therefore, Europe views the world and its problems without the military means to threaten the unruly.  Consequently, diplomacy, the United Nations Security Council, and compromise are the only ways that the Europeans can deal with foreign policy crises.  America, with its mobile forces and its overwhelming air superiority, is much freerer and more willing to threaten and project military force to meet its objectives--or to thwart those of others.  Kagan notes that the present is a role reversal--Europe in the 19th and early 20th Century had great military power--the great period of European colonization--while the US was relatively weak militarily and relied on diplomacy, international law, and the helpful presence of the British fleet in our foreign policy adventures.  <br />This book is timely in view of recent events in American-European relations.  Although Kagan suggests that the strains in our relationships have been there all along and would have boiled over regardless of who was in power in the United States, this seems questionable in that the present Bush Administration has needlessly \\"dissed\\" Europe and the Europeans and therefore made it more difficult in the short run to have some form of unity and cooperation in dealing with major problems.  Previous administrations had their difficulties with the Europeans, but in most cases have been able to deal with difficult issues in more traditional ways without needless offense to those whodisagreed.  <br />Kagan writes clearly and succinctly, occasionally citing other sources, but without the train of explanatory footnotes or endnotes that often clog the foreign policy pronouncements of others.  Kagan has thought long and hard about the issues; the result is an exemplary example of distilling your views into clear, readable prose.	2003-04-18
US	52935224	RITCN7FWBOT9V	1400047285	150767402	Blinded by the Right: The Conscience of an Ex-Conservative	Books	4	7	9	N	N	A Behind the Scenes Look at the Right Wing	David Brock's \\"Blinded by the Right...\\" is required reading for political junkies, especially those who were on the battlefield during the \\"scandal\\" hysteria over the Clintons in the 1990s.  Brock, who began as a Bobby Kennedy follower, changed when at Berkley during the early 1980s he witnessed the intolerance of leftist student politics.  Disillusioned, he moved right--far right--and became famed at a journalistic hit man for the Right, targetting Anita Hill, the bimbos in Bill Clinton's past, and other liberal icons working for the Washington Times and The Spectator magazine.  <br />In some ways, Brock's book is two stories:  one is of his political journey from left to right to, I guess, moderate.  This should be taken into account in reading his account because passionate devotees of a cause who recant are not always the best reporters of what in fact took place.  Brock's accounts of his former right-wing friends, their physical appearance, their homes, mannerisms, etc., is often biting and a bit snippy.  The other story is of Brock, a gay man who was deep in the closet during his long association with Rightist moralists, and his \\"coming out\\" and the effect it had on his friends and associates.<br />The most useful part of the book is Brock's detailing of the \\"vast right-wing conspirators,\\" the venom and hatred they displayed against the Clintons in which truth and fact are sublimated to their eventual goal of the overthrow of the Clintons, and the generally unflattering portraits of most of the Conservative movers and shakers.  It is, in many respects, a chilling portrait.  Liberals, too, can be mean and nasty but as a whole they are Sunday School players compared to the Rightist opposition.<br />One drawback to the book is the lack of an index and, perhaps, some sort of list of names and who they were and what they did.  Those who follow politics closely can get by, by those not immersed  may find the going a bit confusing.	2003-04-07
US	52935224	R243MUP7OI3NN6	1557505756	155806366	Midway: The Battle That Doomed Japan, the Japanese Navy's Story (CLASSICS OF NAVAL LITERATURE)	Books	5	35	37	N	N	A Must Book for Serious Pacific War Buffs...	Many accounts of the battle of Midway have been written from the American point of view and of the reasons for our success--code breaking and trickery to reveal the target, the amazing repair job done on the Yorktown, and American adaptation to battle conditions plus a little bit of luck.  Little is known, however, of the Japanese view of the battle.  <br />A few years after Midway two Japanese Naval aviators, Mitsuo Fuchida and Masatake Okumiya, wrote a scathing critique of the battle, exposing Japanese overconfidence, the rigidity of Japanese decision-making, and tarnishing in so doing the reputations of Admiral Yamamoto and others.  Fushica's views are particularly valuable in that he was aboard the Japanese carrier Akagi during the battle, though grounded because of a recent operation.  His record of the terrifying few minutes when the Dauntless dive bombers came out of the clouds to destroy the heart of the Japanese carrier fleet are invaluable, including his rescue and eventual return to Japan.  Okumiya was attached to the northern force, part of the Midway operation, that attacked the fog-bound Aleutians, but who gathered much information about the battle afterwards from survivors.  <br />The authors are harsh on the fecklessness of the Japanese naval forays into the Indian ocean which accomplished little of strategic value, the high-level conflicts in the Japanese decision-making process, and the over-confidence generated by their success at Pearl Harbor and elsewhere.<BR>Tactics are also criticized, such as the perfunctory search plane missions to detect and locate enemy forces because the Japanese high command could not imagine that US forces might be within striking distance.  <br />The book, reissued some years back by the Naval Institute Press, also contains footnotes that adds information not known to the Japanese authors at the time of writing.  <BR>The book is highly recommended for filling out the blanks in the battle of Midway and of adding detailsto the failures of Japanese strategic planning and decision-making.	2003-02-02
US	52935224	R1S9YANAQIOHXT	0446611514	309570895	Skin Tight	Books	3	2	4	N	N	Only for the addicted	Carl Hiaasen's books are, well, different.  They are not mysteries but essentially satire, bitter and almost off-the-wall commentary on south Florida and its seedy, greedy denizens.  Blood, gore, and plenty of action characterize Skin Tight which examines the world of incompetent plastic surgeons and Geraldo-type TV confrontational hosts.  Of course there is a hero--Mike Stranahan--who bears a faint resemblance to Travis McGee, minus the cerebral musings of what-life-is-all-about.  <br />Somebody wants Mike Stranahan killed, a guy with five previous wives and five people he's killed, including two in Vietnam, who now retired from law enforcement lives in a stilt house out in the mud flads of south Florida with his only companion a barracuda that Stranahan feeds each day.  A 6 foot  9 hit man with a disfigured face and, later in the story, with a weed-whacker attached for an artificial arm, a couple of unbelievably nasty cops, a crooked lawyer who's married to Stranahan's sister, and, of course, a few assorted females of varying degrees of integrity and beauty are included in the cast.  <br />One thing in Hiaasen stories is that the bad guys usually get their come-uppance, usally very messily and sometimes ghoulishly amusing.  I'd remembered other Hiaasen stories as reasonably well written.  Perhaps my standards have changed, but Skin Tight has most of its characters talking in interchangeable words and expressions.  So if you're addicted to Hiaasen, go ahead.  If not, there are other authors who give you a better read for the time.	2002-11-06
US	52935224	R2XNJ0KYK8DRHX	B000067DUB	830818607	Second Wind	Books	2	4	5	N	N	This is not your typical Dick Francis novel	If you wish to read one of the dozens of Dick Francis novels, and every mystery fan should, please don't start with Second Wind.  To be sure the writing has all of the usual Dick Francis qualities of concise yet telling prose.  But the plot involving not a horseman but a BBC meterologist, Dr. Perry Stuart, and his fellow meterologist  Kris, the desire of suicide-minded Kris to fly through a hurricane, the tiny island of Trox, now deserted, and the mysterious goings-on there, and the collection of folks met at a party at Newmarket is in the end unsatisfying.   The plot was strained at times, and the various physical poundings befelling Perry, including surviving a hurricane with only a life vest, seemed more cartoon-like than real.  <br />Although Francis had the help of a professional meterologist for the atmosphere, still the impression was a very superficial one and in a way misleading.  There was little or no talk that I recall of the various models that forecasters rely on, or the atmospheric teleconnections that enable forecasters to predict with some accuracy the weather a week down the road.  Also, Francis has Hurricane Sheila whipping up the waves in November which would be some 17 named storms, close to if not a record for the number of named Atlantic storms in a single season.   <br />In sum, Francis seemed to have trouble in deciding whether  this is mystery or suspense, or whether he should highlight the business of weather forecasting or the machinations of terrorists and their helpers.  Read Dick Francis, but not this one.	2002-09-13
US	52935224	R3CWZZL3I4CB82	031228182X	847261955	Red House (Filomena Buscarsela Mysteries)	Books	3	1	3	N	N	Intriquing, if somewhat confusing, off-beat mystery	Equadorian-born Filomnena Buscarsela, a former NYPD cop, is apprenticing at a New York PI firm to meet the requirements for a PI license.  As this story unfolds, she becomes involved with a multiple series of wrong-doings involving Latino immigrants who are struggling to make a living in the City and who are often at the mercy of landlords and the city bureacracy.  Buscarsela, a very tough-talking dame--a little bit too much for my taste--takes on cases that involve time but little reward to her and her employer except satisaction in seeing justice, in a sense, served. <br />The book was highly recommended several months ago in the Washington Post's Book Review Sunday supplement, hence my interest.  Despite a good, move-it-along pace with terse and often acerbic dialogue, the intertwining of several different stories makes it a book that should be read in two or three sittings; otherwise, you'll have to do considerable rereading to keep the plot line clear.  Sharp observations if sometimes a too obvious slant of glorifying the oppressed immigrants characterizes the writing.  Also, the number of amusing, sometimes penetrating put-downs and zingers in the dialogue will hold interest, even if the plot line leaves you befuddled.  Not for everyone, but an interesting diversion--particularly the fine writing--from the usual detective/ police procedural novel.	2002-08-13
US	52935224	R1P0RZL1H28OGL	0806628456	978414406	Listening for God : Contemporary Literature and the Life of Faith Volume 2 (Leader Guide)	Books	5	23	24	N	N	A wonderful resource for discussion groups	Paula Carlson and Peter Hawkins have over the past several years pulled together short stories and a few essays, three volumes in all, from contemporary authors in which faith concerns of all types are raised.  The authors are first-rate and include the well known--John Updike, Flannery O'Connor, Gail Godwin,  John Cheever and others--to lesser known authors like Tillie Olsen and Tess Gallgher.  Each of the volumes includes a leader's guide, and volumes 1 and 2 include videos with interviews of the authors or of people who knew the author.  <br />These are excellent volumes for discussion groups that bring out the multitude of issues, problems, life crises that each of has or will face.  The relationship to faith and religion are sometimes clear, sometimes not so obvious, but all present situations of interest and, often, deep concern, for individuals.  Having facilitated two of this series, the atmosphere provided by the stories and their general literary excellence leads easily into discussions where people can reflect anew on the importance of grace and  the mystery of God in our lives	2002-03-15
US	52935224	R3LOSENTJXST45	0440205239	431667439	Shackles	Books	5	8	8	N	N	An excellent read for mystery fans	I had read a bit of Bill Pronzini, but not one his \\"nameless detective\\" series until I picked up \\"Shackles.\\"  This is one great story, divided into two parts.  Nameless is abducted by an old enemy, blindfolded, taken to a remote cabin in the Sierras in November, and there chained--though with some food and heat--to die slowly during the long winter months.  In diary fashion Pronzini records the physical and emotional trials that \\"nameless\\" endures before he finally hits upon the way to freedom.  <BR>The second part of the book is how \\"nameless\\" goes about tracking down the bad guy.  With sparse but hard-hitting prose, the reader can identify with the painstaking steps used to eventually find the would-be killer.  This is one mystery which can stand a rereading for the tautness of the prose style and the empathy one has with the protagonist.  Read it!	2002-02-06
US	52935224	RK0M8M5SQRSYC	1891620851	763016039	Orphans Of The Cold War: America And The Tibetan Struggle For Survival	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Essential to an understanding of Tibet in the 20th Century	As someone who knows the author and who provided some assistance for the initial phases of the resistance effort, this review will suffer from bias.  Nonetheless in my opinion the author has done an excellent job in presenting not only the operational details in the CIA's involvement with the Tibetans, but he has mined the diplomatic sources to provide invaluable background on the genesis of our assistance.  Why we became involved will become much clearer as the complex relationships and interests of India, ourselves, China, and others are detailed in the book.  Although the Tibetan resistance movement is not much more than a lengthy footnote in the history of the Cold War, nonetheless it an interesting and often tragic event made even more so by the fair-minded analysis of the author and the entertaining style used in the telling.  &quot;Orphans...&quot; is a must read for history buffs of this period and our relationships, overt and covert,  in this part of the world	2002-02-06
US	52935224	R3W108BL1348AL	0684819066	87039745	A Beautiful Mind : A Biography of John Forbes Nash, Jr.	Books	4	3	3	N	N	A Fascinating Account of an Obscure Topic and  Unlikely Hero	Slyvia Nasar is to be congratulated for delving into the complex world of mathematics, an arcane topic--game theory--,and the prickly Nobel Laureate, John Nash, who did seminal work in the field--and making it interesting.  Despite the subject material, one does not need to be a mathematician to gain a vague idea of the world of higher mathematics though some of us, like me, who found Algebra I and 2 a trial, will have eye glaze problems when some of the equations and other mathematical jargon are used.   Ms. Nasar organizes the book chronologically and gives good balance to the various phases of Nash's life through a multitude of interviews with persons who knew Nash, supplemented by more limited documentary evidence from letters, publications, and the like. The Princeton parts of the book are well described in recreating the flavor of the town and academic atmosphere.  But the real heart of the book is Nash himself, his quirks, his genius, his descent into schizophrenia and, finally, remission and reward.  A very interesting sidelight is her revelations about the workings of the secretive Nobel Prize committee.<br />The author is right in stressing that Nash's remission from schizophrenia is, alas, the exception rather than the rule.  And she has read about and contacted a number of those active in the field of schizophrenia to make sure her observations are based on current conventional wisdom of this illness.  Despite the detail in the book, I came away with some questions:  for example, Nash was not a particularly social being--in fact he was often rude and off-putting--in his youth and early years before his breakdown.  Were these personality quirks somehow related to schizophrenia, or were they simply byproducts of a &quot;beautiful mind,&quot; someone so deeply into the abstract world of deep-think that they have little time or interest in how to be a well-adjusted person?  I also thought that Nasar's narrative occasionally was a little cloying to some of her subjects and that she sometimes projected what a person was feeling without indicating how she knew this.  <br />But these are minor quibbles.  The book is a thought provoking examination of several different &quot;worlds&quot; carried off with considerable panache.  Buy it and see the movie--which I intend to do.	2002-02-02
US	52935224	R2442MK3IO9GRJ	076790382X	213092180	I'm a Stranger Here Myself: Notes on Returning to America After 20 Years Away	Books	3	4	4	N	N	Worth reading but a bit uneven	When Bryson returned to the United States, settling in New Hampshire, after 20 years in Britian, he was asked to write a weekly essay for a British magazine.  The results are a compilation of these efforts and, as one might suspect, some of the essays are better than others. One will not find the raunchy humor of Bryson's &quot;Neither Here nor There&quot; nor the interesting detail of his Australian travel recounted &quot;In a Sunburned Country.&quot; <br />But Bryson, as always, manages to find humor, frequently directed at himself, in the trials and trivia of everyday American life, particularly those aspects that had changed since last he was a permanent resident.  And since these were written for a British audience, there is some playing to British biases about American and Americans in general.  <br />Bryson's wit is what carries the book, and in most of the essays there are Brysonian gems and riffs to cause a smile, a snicker, sometimes an outright belly laugh.  Sometimes he gets into too much silly exaggeration, at least for me, but overall there are sufficient truly funny pieces to cause one to part with a few shillings to buy the book.	2002-01-06
US	52935224	R2RZYKL2T2QETA	055357230X	538869946	The Clinic (Alex Delaware Novels)	Books	2	4	5	N	N	A disappointment	Jonathan Kellerman's mysteries sell well and he's gotten some good reviews, at least that is what I recalled when my daughter gave me &quot;The Clinic&quot; recently.  Unfortunately, the reputation does not translate for me into an enjoyable read.  Lots and lots of talk, some of which could have been cut or put into exposition, bogs down the narrative. Some interesting psychological insights from Dr. Alex Delaware about the characters involved, but although some suspense is generated, the overall effect is more like a thud, rather than a splash. Kellerman apparently believes that each character must be described in considerable detail, but without providing any insights into the character through dialogue and action, the descriptions are useless. He also describes with some detail some of the settings.  But again the writing is so, well, pedestrian that there is no evocative rush from the descriptions.  Maybe Kellerman is better in other books.  One hopes so.	2001-11-26
US	52935224	RV5CRJKEE2NU9	156511485X	544056080	The Man Who Flew the Memphis Belle: Memoirs of a WWII Bomber Pilot CD	Books	4	15	18	N	Y	Into the wild blue yonder...and back.	Is this a good read?  Yes it is, but not necessarily for the accounts of combat missions flown by Robert Morgan, pilot of the famed Memphis Belle, the first B-17 of the 8th Air Force to successfully complete 25 missions, and memoralized by William Wyler's photography and, in 1990, by a movie.  More to the point, the story is one of what happened to the heroes of WWII, to those who flew, who were in the foxholes, who strode the deck of a warship.  Did everyone come back to marry, buy a house, have children and live happpily ever after?  Read this book and perhaps you'll understand in a small way what war meant and what it meant to those who fought in it.<br />Raised in upper class surroundings in Ashville, North Carolina, Robert Morgan seemed to have a care-free life of good times, fast cars, and plenty of women.  But World War II intevenes and Morgan, at loose ends, joins an expanding Air Corps in late 1940.  He fell in love with flying, but his career was often jeporadized by his propensities for buzzing buildings and beaches, and his disregard for proper military attire and the finer points of military discipline.  There is no doubt of Morgan's abilities and courage, however, because in 1943, after a lengthy tour with his Memphis Belle and crew on a bond drive,  he volunteers for the brand new B-29 program.  As a squadron commander, Lt. Colonel Morgan is part of  the 73rd Bomb Wing, based on Saipan, and flies the first B-29 mission to Tokyo, November 1944, in &quot;Dauntless Dotty.&quot; After twenty-six often perilous missions, he is grounded and returned to the States in the summer of 1945.  Later discharged, Morgan returns to civilian life with wife and now children and enters the business world begun by his father and headed by his brother, David.<br />But Robert Morgan's flying career is only part of his story.  The other is his personal journey, a trek tinged with sadness and search  Despite the privileges and luxury, his father was distant and his beloved mother, a friend of the Vanderbilts, was often away. The suicide of his mother when Morgan was 18 was a serious psychic blow, perhaps accounting in part for his numerous love affairs and marriages.  As was true with many others who had seen too many friends killed or lost, Morgan continues for years after the war to wonder &quot;why was I spared, my buddies killed.&quot; A drinking problem becomes more serious and it is not until Morgan seeks help from his &quot;Command Pilot,&quot; God, and counsel from Billy Graham, does to come to grips with the demons that plagued his life.<br />Another story is also told; the story of Morgan's greatest love, &quot;The Memphis Belle&quot; and his efforts and those of others to have this fabled plane properly enshrined in Memphis.  May Morgan and his &quot;Memphis Belle&quot; have tranquil times in their remaining year.oved mother, a friend of the Vanderbilts, was often away. The suicide of his mother when Morgan was 18 was a serious psychic blow, perhaps accounting in part for his numerous love affairs and marriages.  As was true with many others who had seen too many friends killed or lost, Morgan continues for years after the war to wonder &quot;why was I spared, my buddies killed.&quot; A drinking problem becomes more serious and it is not until Morgan seeks help from his &quot;Command Pilot,&quot; God, and counsel from Billy Graham, does to come to grips with the demons that plagued his life.  <br />Another story is also told; the story of Morgan's greatest love, &quot;The Memphis Belle&quot; and his efforts and those of others to have this fabled plane properly enshrined in Memphis.  May Morgan and his &quot;Memphis Belle&quot; have tranquil times in their remaining year.	2001-09-26
US	52935224	R3QITOLMPFF8DG	0804116059	103964996	Roll Me Over: An Infantryman's World War II (Presidio War Classic. World War II)	Books	5	30	31	N	N	An unusually reflective view of war on the front lines	What makes Raymond Gantter's book so valuable is that it is based on notes taken during combat from November 1944 through the end of the war, his letters home, and pulling all of his memories together in the immediate postwar years.  Gantter was no ordinary GI: thirty years old, a college graduate, German speaking, and  with a considerable talent for writing with feeling and meaning. Because he spoke German, Gantter gives us a better appreciation of German civilian reactions than most other stories of the ground war.   His accounts of the front-line infantryman, the danger, the confusion, the seemingly randomness and senselessness of what often had to be done comes through with a clarity few other first-hand accounts of the war in Europe have achieved.  There is no grand strategy explained here, no maps to follow, but only the ground-eye view of orders to take Point 69, to advance to the ridgeline a mile ahead.  And during this, Gantter reflects on what it means, or doesn't mean. He also does not hesitate to describe actions of soldiers that seldom occur in the histories. Side-by-side with heroism and gallantry, there was also fear, cowardness, stupidity, and animalistic behavior.  By all means read Gantter's account of the ground war as it really was as a necessary supplement to the standard accounts written decades later by historians who never dug a foxhole or ate C-rations.	2001-08-08
US	52935224	R1ITUVSH3FX46C	0891416064	748053548	Platoon Leader	Books	5	3	3	N	N	A ground-level view of war in Vietnam	Many accounts of our war in Vietnam have been penned, including a number of first-person accounts.  But anyone who would like to know exactly how it was to be on the ground with an infantry platoon, as viewed through the perspective of a freshly-minted West Point lieutenant, this is your book.  McDonough's platoon is stuck in an area of pacification, in I Corps, infested by Viet Cong and their sympathizers; it is also late in the war, the summer of 1970, and one of the enemies that McDonough has to fight is that of the morale of his men.  While the prose style is direct and unadorned, the piling on of the day-by-day platoon operations, the descriptions of the terrain and the people, and, most importantly, McDonough's handling of the varied soldiers who pass through his platoon gives this book a feeling of &quot;being there&quot; far exceeding what a more polished prose style could bring.  To prospective authors who would like to find out how the ground war was fought, this book is a must.  One comes away with a better appreciation of not only this ugly war, but also a new admiration for those, officers and enlisted personnel, who held our war-weary forces together.	2001-07-01
US	52935224	R1OIYQDWJU1IDP	1586480103	64931643	MY WAR	Books	5	5	5	N	N	An honest account of Andy's war....	If you enjoy Andy Rooney, you'll enjoy My War.  Even if you don't care for grumpy Andy on Sixty Minutes, you still should read this account for its honesty and tribute to those who fought and died in WWII.  In his preface, Andy notes that when he started checking his memory with the historical record, he was surprised at how often they didn't jibe.  And that when in doubt, he relied on memory!  A person who takes his World War II history seriously will find an error here and there, a misinterpretation now and then.  But this is not footnoted history; this is Andy's story--and, as always, he tells it well with admirable brevity of words, dabs of humor, and occasional sentamentality.  <br />Andy has his likes and dislikes--General Patton being one of those he disliked, no despised, the most--and he also snipes a bit at a few of his fellow war correspondents and some of the officers who made life difficult for the enlisted man.  But three parts of his book stand out.  For nearly two years Andy covered the Eight Air Force and their bombing campaign against Germany and German-occupied France.  He is sympathethic to the airmen and the horrendous losses they suffered in those early years.  To his credit, Andy volunteered for a mission that turned out to be a difficult target--Wilhelmshaven--in which his plane was damaged and of his own role in reviving a crewman who had had his oxygen supply cut off.  As a former WWII AAF navigator [20th AF], his feelings and reactions to air combat ring true.   A second section is his account of the liberation of Paris in which Andy chose to enter the city with the French Army.  Much of this is mildy amusing, but also poignant, as the liberators argued over who &quot;first&quot; came into the city, of the political aspects of this in dealing with the French and General Charles de Gaulle, and the vast excitement as this momentous event unfolded.  No matter who came first, the Parisiens were overjoyed at being at last freed from their oppressors.  Finally, Andy's account of Buchenwald and of his own mixed feelings--he had originally thought the stories of extermination camps somewhat suspect--are a tribute to his own candor.  He also reminds us with his honest account of own biases of the mindsets of many Americans when WWII descended. <br />Anyone interested in World War II and the men who fought in it will be enlightened by Andy's account.	2001-06-28
US	52935224	R27X16BLFIA2GJ	0440208025	63376284	Panzer Commander: The Memoirs of Colonel Hans Von Luck (World War II Library)	Books	4	28	34	N	N	An important insight of WWII from a German officer	This is a sobering account by a well-bred German officer of his WWII experiences and, at the very end of the war, an account of capture by the Soviets and five years of captivity in Russia.  There is little doubt from von Luck's account that he is of the old school, born into a well-off family of Prussian militarists, and one who was a professional and a &quot;gentleman&quot; in his treatment of his men and of those he conquered. Von Luck makes it clear in the beginning that the failure of the German officer corps to oppose Hitler was the oath all had taken to defend the fatherland and its leader, Adolph Hitler.  He doesn't dwell, in fact does not mention, the attempted coup in the summer of 1944; he seems, as most German officers apparently felt, that once the famous oath was taken, nothing could be done to remove the &quot;corporal&quot; from power.  Obviously, the immense power of Hitler's SS and other units were enough to cause one pause; but still, a few Germans did.  Von Luck was not one of them.<br />The book is not one of military tactics, maps, or reviews of grand strategy.  It is a very personal account with only sketchy links to the overall war.  Some may find this disappointing.  I didn't, because I was more interested in von Luck's own reactions and they are often more important than battle details. Von Luck occasionally is reflective, but most of the time it is his story of war, a job to be done, a job to be done efficiently and well.  He holds no grudges against those he conquers, and because of his linguistic fluency makes friends with former enemies. <br />But it was troubling to me to see no reflection or regret, for example, after the brief Poland campaign.  Von Luck's unit returns to their base in Germany where they are lustily cheered and feted as heroes.  No thought here of what was done, namely the destruction and occupation of Poland, which afterall was hardly an enemy, but only the satisfaction of victorious soldiers and of the booty obtained.  This is true also of von Luck's time in France, where he establishes genuine friendships with the French and builds up his wine collection.  Again little contemplation on what this meant, only, it seems, that the orders were to attack France--and to carry out the mission successfully.<br />From his account and the testimony of others, including Steven Ambrose, von Luck is someone you'd undoubtedly like as friend, neighbor, and storyteller. To me, what is important about the book is not what von Luck says--most of it honest talk and interesting details--but what he doesn't say.	2001-06-28
US	52935224	R357WM619XFLM	0452255503	274315224	Growing Up	Books	5	12	15	N	Y	One of the best memoirs I've read	Russell Baker's story from childhood to an adult is undoubtedly one of the very best of this genre--a classic that will be read long after Baker has been taken from this earth. I am biased, perhaps, because Baker and I share the same year of birth and some similar experiences.   Baker's story is also very much the story of one of the &quot;greatest generation,&quot; the generation who suffered in poverty during the Great Depression, then became part of the 12 million American men who enlisted or were drafted to fight--and help win--the Second World War. Baker did not get overseas, but the accounts of his Naval flight training will bring smiles and nods to all of those who underwent the long training ordeal before getting one's wings.  <br />But Growing Up is also a story of Baker's mother, an indominable woman so very typical of her generation, and who had the handicap of losing her husband when Russel was five years old.  His mother's grit, her frugality, her determination to see that her children, particularly Russell, would &quot;make something of himself&quot; is endearing and will strike a familiar chord with many of us who grew up during those years.  <br />The book is beautifully written, wonderfully evocative of time and place, and filled with vignettes of some of the colorful Baker clan who shared part of Baker's growing years.  The whimsical humor of a Baker column that ran for so many years in the New York Times is present here, much of it directed towards himself and his fumbles and bumbles.  Equally amusing and honest are his tales of his Navy time, his failed attempts at seduction, and a hilarious account of a weekend drinking binge that prepared him for a check ride--he was was on the verge of washing out of the cadet program--that astounded his check ride flight instructor.<br />This is a book for the night bookshelf, to be picked up again and again for pure enjoyment.	2001-06-28
US	52935224	RGQ0PZISN63NK	0312245475	442933144	The Hunting of the President: The Ten-Year Campaign to Destroy Bill and Hillary Clinton	Books	5	40	45	N	N	Would the guilty please raise their hands?	The most important point in this book is the failure of those giants of the media world--the New York Times, Washington Post, Newsweek, and others--to acknowledge how badly they misplayed these various stories, but particularly Whitewater.  And why?  As others have suggested, the media have never been the same since Watergate and &quot;All The President's Men,&quot; and this competition betwen the media giants, the unwillingness to be scooped, the thought that the next Pulizer is within reach,  led to the highly embarrassing factual errors in so much of their coverage.  As someone once said, the only sacred cow the press will not tackle is the press itself. What seems almost criminal is the failure of so many reporters to ask themselves the simple question:  why is this person telling me this?  A bit of knowledge of Arkansas politics and of the characters involved should have alerted such heavies as Jeff Gerth and others to do more interviews and research and write less copy.  Another terrible failure was the tendency of so many to decide that because the New York Times printed it, it must be so.  <br />Despite the considerable sourcing and the many interviews on which the authors base their reporting, still in checking some pages it was unclear as to which source supplied what information.  Nonetheless, there is sufficient information in the chapter headings of the notes to reassure readers that a thorough research job has been done.  <br />I do not consider the book a whitewash of the Clintons.  The authors make clear that the Clinton's missteps and shortcomings were contributing factors in some cases.  But it's clear from the book that most of the swirl of &quot;scandal&quot; that surrounded the Clintons was initiated by a group of determined anti-Clinton haters, happily delivered to a bewildered public by fevered media persons salivating over scoops, sensation, and the bolstering of their careers.<br />Joe Conason and Gene Lyons are to be congratulated on an important correction of what until now has passed as conventional wisdom during the Clinton years.	2001-02-06
US	52935224	R3S860Z2UI5348	067941424X	474125502	Downfall: The End of the Imperial Japanese Empire	Books	5	18	19	N	N	It Had To Be Done	For those of us who were in the Pacific war, the dropping of the atomic bombs and the defeat of Japan was a godsend:  no more 14 hours missions to Japan and back for those of us in the 20th Air Force, no landings, as we learned later, on heavily defended beaches on Kyushu by our Marines and Army GIs, no more threats from suicide missions against Navy ships and personnel by the 8,000 or more planes Japan had hoarded to attack the invasion fleet, and for the POWs held by Japan and those in Japanese-controlled territory no more torture, starvation, and death. Yet in recent years revisionist historians have been painting a different story that we need not have dropped the atomic bombs nor, perhaps, conducted  bombing raids against the major Japanese cities and their industries.  The revisionists posited theories that Japan would have surrended without the bombing had we only pursued more effectively diplomatic channels, that US motives in dropping the A-bombs were more to warn the Soviets, and that after one atomic bomb, the Japanese would have meekly given up.<br />In a masterful survey of the final six months of the war, Richard B. Frank examines all of these theories and using recently released intercepts and the writings of the major Japanese participants in the last four days of the war, convincingly stands all of the revisionist's theories on their heads.  Frank is meticulous in his research, clear in his writing, and with his detailed sourcing and end notes touches every nook and cranny of the climatic last few months of the Pacific war.  He brings to light, for example, the great suffering and deaths, primarily in China, caused by the continued Japanese occupation and of the inability of Japan, because of the choking off of their shipping by our Navy and B-29 mining raids, to supply their garrisons or the Japanese homeland with raw materials and food.  He also points out that had the war gone on for another month, B-29 planners were going to target the rail system's choke points which, if carried out, would have caused tremendous difficulties to supply food to Japanese urban areas.  In short, any person wishing to understand the complex military and political situation that preceded the dropping of the atomic bombs and the ending of the war against Japan needs to have this book on their library shelf.	2000-12-17
US	52935224	R393VC6FKDE3IX	0375503714	873402511	The Special Prisoner: A Novel	Books	2	13	14	N	N	A Great Plot Idea That Doesn't Quite Click	As a B-29 crewman [navigator] who flew a number of missions over Japan, I looked forward to reading this book.  The treatment of POWs by the Japanese was deplorable, a fact that only in recent years has been publicized.  We B-29 crewmen were briefed late in the war that, if captured, we could tell the Japanese anything we wanted, rather than the name, rank, serial number response.  In retrospect, this was likely because through intelligence we had discovered that B-29 crewman were often killed within a day after capture, and it was hoped this might ease our lot if we fell into Japanese hands.  <br />But I came away disappointed. Lehrer does replicate many of the horrors of a POW, and he brings in various incidents from actual accounts.  But it is difficult for me to fully believe the plot line as to Bishop Watson's reactions after running into his presumed Japanese torturer--the &quot;hyena.&quot;  A lot of the writing seems melodramatic and hastily done, and while he explores the important moral issues here, he does not probe beyond some surface generalities.  Likewise the Sermon given by Watson at the end of the book is not reflective of the type of sermon I've heard Methodist and other clerics preach.  Another serious defect in the book, important only to those who actually served in the AAF during WWII, is the erron-filled time-line of training to be a pilot--from entry into the AAF to flying a B-29 in 9 months is not plausible--nor is the sequence of events of low-level bombing raids or of Lehrer's placing Saipan 1500 miles east of Japan [it's actually almost 1500 miles due south]. Several other questionable or poorly explained events mar the factual foundation for the novel.  For those who know little about the Pacific War, Lehrer's account will likely pass muster, as many reviewers attest.  Those with greater background and familiarity with the events of the time will find, as I did, the book promising but in the end frustrating and unsatisfying.	2000-09-20
