US	52945081	R6G4UKAYIA52Y	0452280397	331831848	Paradise (Oprah's Book Club)	Books	5	70	75	N	N	A complex and fulfilling book	Toni Morrison is one of the best authors living today, and has firmly placed herself as an author that will be read years down the road.  Paradise is perhaps one of her best novels, and is one of my all time favorites (I have read it three times).<br /><br />It does pose a difficult read for those looking for a casual book, because it is a deep and complexly interwoven book meant to stir emotions and one's mind.  I am amazed at the spotlight reviews who seem confused by her style of writing and could not become involved with the characters.  Morrison uses a recursive approach, one that breathes new life into each chapter (as a new character is introduced Morrison takes the time to back track to explain that person's past before joining the character with the present time of the book; Morrison's Master's Thesis was on Faulkner, who used the recursive style heavily).  Although this could create confusion if you aren't aware of it, I think it makes for an altogether complete and compelling story.<br /><br />The Convent itself and the women that reside within are compelling, and sad, stories ready to be told, and as they unfold with their interactions with Ruby it creates a book that is absolutely amazing.<br /><br />This book is not for those looking for a quick easy read, or something that goes from point A to point B with no stops in between.  This book will test your mind and emotions as the tale unfolds through complex chapters, leaving you with a much more fulfilling book than one that does not make you think about what you are reading.  If I could give this a six star rating, I wouldn't hesitate.	2005-10-08
US	52945081	R2VPBY5PNIMRGR	0765311798	770709594	Glass Soup	Books	3	6	12	N	N	Good writing, but the same story again	Carroll is an amazing author, one I have read religiously since I discovered The Wooden Sea (After Silence is by far my favorite of Carroll's).  His writing flows easily and his narrative is real and understandable.      This is perhaps one of the reasons that I didn't particularly care for Glass Soup.  His dialogue seemed forced, like he felt that he had to explain everything to the reader in order for us to understand.  This is where I am confused, because he never used to write that way.  He always used to write intelligently, assuming the readers understand, and the story was that much better.  This was why I loved reading Carroll, because he didn't fall into the typical trap of writing too much when we already understand.      This aside, I have only one other issue with Glass Soup.  He always writes about death.  He seems to always write about death as a man, or an idea, that is trying to defeat you.  And obviously that would mean that love and friendship and caring and so on would need to be present to battle against death and Chaos, but that still doesn't detract from the oh so common theme that Carroll tends to always write upon.  This in itself is a great concept to write upon, but I would love to see him mix things up a little and show us his talent as a writer.    Glass Soup in itself is a decent novel and flows easily.  It is a little forced at times, and the ending is abrupt and a little forced as well, but I would still recommend Carroll as an author.  Read his other works first, at the least read White Apples at the same time you read Glass Soup, that way his writing seems more like a complete and fluid story rather than using the same concept twice.	2005-10-07
US	52945081	R3DDZWOJAPKXD7	0375706364	123472120	Crucible of War: The Seven Years' War and the Fate of Empire in British North America, 1754-1766	Books	5	2	2	N	N	A must read	Anderson has done a great job in explaining the significance of the Seven Years War.  Showing that this war, and not the famed Revolutionary War, could indeed be of more importance is a great notion, for if the continent were not rid of the French beforehand than Independence might not have been an option. <br /> <br />The Seven Years War is an immensely important war as it altered the politics of a great many nations.  This could perhaps be the first world conflict (England, France, Prussia, Austria, Russia, Sweden and later Spain and Portugal; not to mention the fighting in so many places including North America, Europe, West Indies, Africa and India) to take place.  Anderson does a good job in explaining how the English, under Pitt, were able to stop the French by maintaining the mastery of the sea and by invading the French colonies and thus stemming the amount of money and men available to be expended on the North American front.  Couple this with the French loss of Indian aid and Anderson has made it clear why the English won. <br /> <br />This is a great book for someone interested in colonial North America leading into Independence and I would recommend it to anyone.  As with the other reviews, the last 200 or so pages of the book seems out of place, as though it would belong with a book about the Revolutionary War, but it is still useful and interesting to read.  When you are through with this move on to Middlekauff's The Glorious Cause and you will have a great understanding of the latter half of the 18th century and the development of the United States. <br />	2005-10-02
US	52945081	R11TLIM0GXFVLY	0195170342	74776758	Washington's Crossing (Pivotal Moments in American History)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	A great supplemental book	Hackett has done a great job in bringing the revolution to life during the short period revolving around Washington's crossing of the Delaware. Besides his great citation and research, his writing itself is enough to bring the story to life.     I have read, for the most part, a good deal of European History but not much of American History. With Washington's Crossing I was able to understand where the American \\"rebels\\" stood and what they fought for. To see the story come together and understand what Washington and his army went through to overcome the superior army was amazing. What I particularly enjoyed was the connection of the ideals of the rebels that defined them as an army, and how it led to the country that we are today. The humanitarian side, the issue of prisoners of war and how they were to be handled, how the people in general were treated (lowly soldiers were considered gentleman, rather than being born into it).     All in all, I would recommend this book to someone looking for a good book on the first few years of the Revolutionary War. It does only cover the first few years, but this is entirely expected since this is about Washington's Crossing, i.e. the period just before and after he crossed the Delaware, so if you are looking for an all encompassing book on the Revolutionary War, try Middlekauff's The Glorious Cause.	2005-10-02
US	52945081	RE4ZHXD1GOQ9D	0195162471	152886823	The Glorious Cause: The American Revolution, 1763-1789 (Oxford History of the United States)	Books	5	32	34	N	N	A wonderful and full overview of the Revolutionary War	This is a very good book on the Revolution, or The Glorious Cause.  Right from the beginning you get a sense of what Middlekauff is attempting to portray as he describes in detail the major factors that led to the Declaration: debt from the Seven Years War and the taxes that were meant to help recoup that debt.  His recursive style - of starting a new chapter by backtracking in order to fill the gaps that are needed in order get back to the timeframe of the previous chapter - is an amazing way to write.  I haven't seen much of this style of writing in nonfiction, only in fiction by authors such as Faulkner and Morrison, and it does well in furthering the story along.  The additional chapters scattered throughout that explain some of the non war aspects are very helpful and interesting to read.    This is a long read, though, so prepare yourself.  It doesn't help that the last 80 or so pages is about the debates at the Constitutional Convention, which is an extremely dry read that should not have been included in the first place.  Additionally, there is a focus on the battles fought, so if you prefer not to read about battles than this book would not be for you.  All in all, Middlekauff did exactly as he set out to do - even with the Constitutional Convention chapters, since this does fall into the premise of his book - and I would recommend this book to anyone interested in the time period.  For those who are also interested in the French and Indian War read Anderson's Crucible of War, which is a perfect lead in to the The Glorious Cause.	2005-10-02
US	52945081	R31Z8NJ6W05C5A	0679456503	98596625	The Making of Robert E. Lee	Books	2	8	16	N	N	Disappointing	This is a very disappointing biography.  I can't tell whether it is disappointing because of the way Fellman wrote or because of who Lee really was, but I suspect that Fellman did a poor job in bringing Lee to life. <br /> <br />His chapters are very prosaic and simple, attempting to boil Lee down into different titles.  \\"Audacity\\", \\"Fatherhood\\", \\"Patrimony Recaptured\\" and so on.  He spends so much time trying to recapture Lee through his letters that he fails to see that they don't add anything worth noting to Lee.  Even when you get to \\"Gettysburg\\" Fellman doesn't talk about the battle, doesn't try to recreate a picture and show how Lee fought.  Instead he shows Lee talking after the battle and claiming responsibility, then telling Davis what went wrong and so on.  We hear nothing of the battle itself! <br /> <br />I must assume, then, that Fellman is an amateur author.  But then you read that he has written five previous books before and is a professor of history!  Astonishing.  I would not recommend this book to anyone, in fact I wouldn't recommend this author at all.	2005-08-15
US	52945081	R3NR40DP8JBWKR	0061012165	349949287	Glimmering: A Novel	Books	3	3	4	N	N	Good writing, but plot doesn't do much	Props go first to Hand's writing.  She writes, albeit differently in some areas, with an ease that you don't find too often.  Her images are appealing and imaginative. <br /> <br />Beyond that, though, this book doesn't do much.  The first 300 pages leave you wondering if the storyline will ever go anywhere, and then it jumps head long and connects the characters, only to leave you with a feeling of incompleteness.  Sex scenes were thrown in haphazardly, for no real reason at all.  I don't mind a good sex scene, when it adds to the story, but, for the most part, the sex scenes in this book didn't do for much.  Leonord's character seemed to play a large role in the happenings of this book, but you don't see him too often.  Additionally, he had one good chapter that made him look the cool character (the underground party), but other than that I couldn't care less for him. <br /> <br />All in all, I was disappointed, because her writing was good but the story had no purpose at all.  Even the characters, Trip and Jack, were connected together so loosely that it detracted from the story rather than brought the story together.  Because of her writing, a three star.	2005-07-26
US	52945081	R2X4YOSNYIRHC7	0439784549	162568542	Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince (Book 6)	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Another good installment	Rowling seems to grow with each book, making the storyline become more and more mature. This could either be because as the series progresses Harry gets older, and thus the story becomes more mature, or she has realized with each book that her audience is becoming more diverse in the ages of its readership. Either way, I think she did a great job with this one. It started out a little slow as we read about the familiar characters, but it picked up and made you want to continue reading.  <br /> <br />One thing I will say. She leads the readers down a very astute path, making sure that her stories develop fluidly and seem natural. Keeping this in mind, don't put it past her for a few surprises in the last and final seventh book. She has already planted several seeds that will sprout in the seventh book and, for many people, surprise them. So pay attention to the details if you are eager for the next book and perhaps you will gain some insight.  <br /> <br />I would recommend this book to anyone, no matter their preference. It is too much of a fun read to not give it a go.	2005-07-20
US	52945081	R1E72HCLMVOJPZ	0316835145	295425783	Skeletons on the Zahara: A True Story of Survival	Books	5	8	10	N	N	Moving and heartbreaking story	As despicable as slavery was in my mind, I never imagined it could be this bad.  And to contrast this we have Riley's hope as he strived to save his men from a morale exhausting situation.  To see what the men were put through and what they had to survive is a testament to the strength of mankind. <br /> <br />The book was written and reads like a novel, flowing from beginning to end.  I know I didn't want to put it down.  The tale iteself almost defies what we would imagine could/would happen if someone were captured, and at times you can only think that this is made up.  But the story is well documented and supported, which gives credence where disbelief sets in. <br /> <br />It is sad to think about what those seven went through, but it is even worse to think about what the ones who weren't so fortunate had to go through, and how much longer they had to endure living as a slave.  The whole story is sad, yet you are lifted by the perseverance of Riley and his men. <br /> <br />Read this book.  Be prepared to be aghast at what was happening to them, and be prepared to be in disbelief.  A great book that everyone should read at least once in their lifetime.	2005-06-14
US	52945081	R1J73PRWG3GVUG	0553565699	463185109	Assassin's Quest (The Farseer Trilogy, Book 3)	Books	5	1	2	N	N	And then there was completion	Oftentimes series end leaving you not quite happy, not quite feeling the completion that an ending should have.  Hobb does a great job in achieving the meaningful and completed ending.  Not only is the book written well with a great plot and storyline, but it doesn't fall prey to the normal endings that are so often fallen into.  Without going into detail, this ends with a more real note to it than the typical fantasy book endings (all in smiles and happy endings).  And yet it works wonderfully. <br /> <br />I would certainly recommend this series to anyone who is looking for a fantasy author to read.  I would rank Hobb right up there with Bakker, Martin, and Williams.	2005-06-11
US	52945081	RTMGC4LUSOW0V	0886778247	174499108	Green Rider (Green Rider Trilogy Book 1)	Books	1	29	72	N	N	Poor	I am utterly amazed that a book this poor could get such rave reviews from everyone.     The plot is so unbelievable that you don't know what to do with yourself. This is the second time that I have tried to read this book because they said that her second book is the sequel to the blockbuster debut. So, hey, maybe I was wrong in my first impression, maybe there really is something worth while. Boy was I wrong.    First, where are the editors? Her haphazard usage of commas makes the read so stilted that you don't even know what you just read. When the English teacher taught the class that it is better to leave commas out then to use them too much she must have been gone.     Generic names never work in fantasy, yet she uses them without regard. Her horse is called \\"The Horse,\\" the enemy is called \\"The Gray One.\\" Come on, can we be any more unoriginal?    The characters have no development and whenever the main character gets in trouble something happens to save her. An eagle shows up to eat little baby spiders that are attacking her (this is such a horrible scene, nothing worth reading), or a voice in her head tells her what to do, or a ghost takes over her body to fight for her, or the Berry Sisters magically appear, or a waystation for Green Riders appears out of nowhere for her to rest in.    It seems that Britain had no clue what she wanted to write on and so just started throwing things in, thinking that it would make sense. Can we use any more of the cliched images? Dirty man wants to rape woman as tobacco drips from his mouth onto her clothes. Let's try and focus on originality or, at the least, re-write it so that it is interesting!	2005-06-08
US	52945081	R1XECJB657W88E	0553573411	675959125	Royal Assassin (The Farseer Trilogy, Book 2)	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Another good installment	Robin Hobb has created another good installment that grabs ahold of you and keeps you reading.  You feel for the characters, you feel their pain, pleasure, happiness, loneliness, you have sympathy for them.  This isn't to say that the characters are not stretched a little thin sometimes, but you overlook that by how Hobb writes. <br /> <br />One downside to this, and thus four star, is that Hobb seems to have written herself into a corner and had to end the book as best she could.  The ending is a little for wanting because it seems especially far fetched.  She does explain it away, so it does work on a small scale, but I wish it would have ended better (and yet it still evoked emotion). <br /> <br />Despite the disappointing (almost, but not complete disappointment) ending I would still run out and get her final installment.  Her writing draws you in and leaves you wanting more, and you can't ask for anything better than that.	2005-06-02
US	52945081	R2T91KHMWD7V28	055357339X	354609409	Assassin's Apprentice (The Farseer Trilogy, Book 1)	Books	5	2	4	N	N	Can't believe it took me this long	This book is a great book!  I bought it years ago when a famous author mentioned this book in an email.  So I bought it, and shelved it, because I didn't think it would be that good.  After I picked it up to read I stopped again, because the beginning didn't seem too promising.  I was annoyed by the beginning because I hate it when author's use words such as Shrewd, Chivalry, Regal, Verity and so on as a character's name.  It is amateurish and not so imaginative, and it oftentimes typical of a debut author who hasn't written anything before.  She did explain this away in the book, which helps some.  Also, the main character starts out the book extrmeley young and the book progresses as he gets older.  How can a six year old boy think as an adult, or a ten year old boy and so on?  How can someone that young be given such adult qualities and do such adult acts and still leave the story believable?  Again, she kind of explains this away, so it is acceptable. <br /> <br />All this aside, after my first rumblings, I picked the book up again and couldn't put it down.  Once the storyline developed I couldn't care less that a new character's name is Patience and that the main character is only fifteen or so.  The way Hobb writes is fluid and descriptive, and the story progresses and makes you want to read.  Emotions are evoked throughout the book and you feel for the characters and what they are going through. <br /> <br />I was pleasantly surprised after I finished this book and that I had had this one for so long and never read it.  A must read for fantasy readers, one you will not want to miss.  Hobb has made a fan out of me.	2005-05-29
US	52945081	R3AXUYAAGTTFTJ	0521585627	495393235	Saladin: The Politics of the Holy War (Canto original series)	Books	4	2	3	N	Y	Good solid work	This is, to say the least, not a book for the lay person to pick for a casual read.  The work is thorough and detailed, starting from beginning to end to how Saladin came into and held onto power.      I knew going into this biography that it would be difficult reading the Arabic names and places, so nothing new there.  I must say that I was impressed with how the point of view remained with Saladin the whole time, using Arabic sources instead of western (other than William of Tyre), and didn't waiver when Saladin came into contact with Richard the Lionhearted and so on.  All to often authors tend to naturally revert to the western point of view rather than understand Saladin for what he was, a Muslim, which helps us better understand who he was.    My only complaint would have to be the same as the other reviewer, that the maps were not included during the reading (it would have been great to have the map at the beginning of each chapter for the time being discussed) and a list of the whose who and their relation to Saladin.  Lyons would mention an Arabic ruler and I couldn't place where he ruled and why he threatened Saladin because of how the names are so alien, which causes the western reader to not easily remember.      Other than those two things, I think this is a great read for the amateur as well as the professional historian, adding a valuable source of information, if not being the best, to what we know of Saladin.  Push past the dry, scholarly feel of the book and you have a wealth of information.	2005-05-22
US	52945081	R14TJNU1ONQYS8	B0007IN2YG	264457638	Oryx and Crake	Books	5	2	3	N	N	A great book	I don't see where other reviewers say that this is a bad book, or that it lacks originality, or that she did a horrible job trying to depict a male character.  To me, she has originality, wrote a great book and depicted a male character wonderfully.  And, to those out there who think Atwoods' personal opinions are throughout this book, think again.  Fiction is not meant to be a manifesto, is not a platform to launch one's ideas.  I mention this because a previous reviewer had this book recommended by an English major, and he did not like Atwood's point of view.  He doesn't grasp the concept of literature, which is not meant to illustrate what the author thinks, but to fulfill what the characters think in order for them to be accurately portrayed, and for this type of book the points of view are dead on.    This is the first book that I have ever read of Atwoods' and I must say I am impressed.  Her writing is great, and the storyline moves from beginning to end in a captivating way, making you want to continue reading to discover what happens.    It did start a little slow at first, but this is to be expected when taking into consideration the type of book she is writing.  She is writing a 'discovery' book, one that the reader slowly discovers as the book moves along.  So it makes perfect sense to flash back to his childhood and college years and so on, how else could you portray the meaning behind the book?  I suppose you could outright say why something is the way it is, but then that adds nothing to the flavor of the book.    Atwood did a wonderful job and she has made a fan out of me.  I look forward to reading some of her other books.	2005-05-07
US	52945081	R2SC1INX9A72FH	0915811898	41314959	Way of the Peaceful Warrior: A Book That Changes Lives	Books	4	5	6	N	N	Interesting portrayal of philosophy	An interesting philosophy, though seemingly unatainable, which, to those non-warriors, would be the likely response.    This is definitely a different way of teaching a philosophy.  Way of the Peaceful Warrior is a cross between a new age, spiritual, self help, fantasy book with a touch of Gandhi.  It is meant to teach the lessons that Dan had learned in his life experiences, to impart a bit of a man that he names Socrates upon his readers through a fictional format.  Granted the storyline is unbelievable, but the lessons are the core of what he is trying to get across, touching upon drinking, violence and other topics and how his philosophy views them.    In the beginning his style is sophomoric and forced, but as the story unfolds you begin to let go of the conventional comprehension of styles of writing and allow the story to unfold.  By the end I didn't really think about the style of writing and instead enjoyed the ending.    I wouldn't say 'run out and buy it', but if it is sitting around or at the library, pick it up and give it a go.	2005-05-01
US	52945081	R4QTSL7RCJQTI	0310209307	938771460	The Case for Christ:  A Journalist's Personal Investigation of the Evidence for Jesus	Books	3	4	11	N	N	Great writing, albeit biased	I find it interesting that the premise of this book is that he was an Atheist turned Christian, and this is a summary of a similar trail he took years before.  This is quite different, of course, because before he may have been Atheist and had objections that he found answers to in books, but this time he is a Christian conducting these interviews.  Most certainly a bias involved.    Beyond that I felt this book does a good job, if you take it with a grain of salt.  He does a good job in summarizing the skeptics beliefs and having them answered.  But here is where the problem is.  He only summarizes, never interviews, the skeptics, and the answers all come from avowed Christians whose research \\"has strengthened their Faith\\" (which Strobel stresses heavily).  Additionally, most of the book is written with the notion that the gospels are historically accurate, so when questions are posed the \\"professionals\\" more often than not answer by quoting the Bible.  As many reviewers have stressed that this is poor journalism because of the lack of the skeptics, I will leave mine at the simple remark above.  Instead I will point out a few of the major faults that I have found.    The book discards the Gospel of Thomas because it is not like the other gospels, i.e. women play a greater role in Christian society, yet it is more like the first and second century AD than the four gospels.  Although it may seem a little off base (by today's standards) history has shown that the Gospel of Thomas could indeed be closer to the reality of the time by stressing the role of the woman than the other gospels.    The point is made that the reason that Acts could be dated closer to Jesus' time than generally accepted is because it ends abruptly and is not finished.  He says this is because Paul must have died, so it couldn't be finished, thus it was in around 50 AD or so.  Hmmm, could not the author of the book have passed away?  A more likely answer, but not even mentioned by this \\"journalist.\\"    Time is built upon people or institutions getting together to decide what would be generally accepted and believed in.  Religion is no different.  Of course the early church went through and discarded what was not pleasing to the church, of course they picked and chose what they want to be looked at.  This is not different than any other institution.  Example: In college today we read a canon, a set of books and literature that are generally accepted to be the best.  Everything else is not read, and thus falls by the wayside.  What if a book of genius, not written by a known author, fell into the cracks because of the canon of literature?  Same has happened with Christianity.    So is it in or out of Jericho?  The answer was that it was both, because Jericho was destroyed and rebuilt several times over.  But that doesn't explain the discrepancy.  Either they saw him walking in, or walking out.  The town was the same for both eyewitnesses, it wasn't destroyed and rebuilt as Jesus was walking in/out.    No evidence that Jesus was mad, from reading the Bible of course.  Of course the Bible is not going to write something about their savior, the son of God, that would make him seem anything less than perfect.  That would be ludicrous.  And most people wouldn't be able to read anyway, because they are illiterate as well as the documents were too expensive back then, so most of the people who saw a mad Jesus wouldn't have known what was written about him.    The point about differning accounts of what happened.  To prove his point Hannibal is brought up, stating that how he got over the Alps, in two sources, were completely different, yet nobody discards the fact that Hannibal went through the Alps (using as reference the differing stories in Strobel's book of what happened at Jesus' tomb three days after his death).  The difference is that Hannibal then laid a trail of destruction all down central Italy and brought the Romans to their knees.  There was plenty of evidence that he was there and where he came from.  With Jesus there is no evidence after the fact to support that he got out of the tomb (unless you use the Bible, which is similar to a dog trying to catch its own tail).    It is interesting to see that \\"believers\\" like to describe \\"nonbelievers\\" as racists, \\"vengeful haters, hardhearted hoarders and power-mongers\\", and yet our worst villains in history have always been Christian, or believers in some sort of deity.  Where Atheists have become \\"vengeful haters\\" I don't know, but I guess it works in helping make them look bad, right?  Even Popes, up until the last century, were corrupt and destroyed thousands of lives, many just so they can get into power and hold it.  History has shown us this.    Although I will not trash this book altogether because it was written well (which is why the three stars).  The points are made and the answers are concise, albeit biased and leading.  Chapter Eleven is a particularly good chapter.  But, again, I say read with a grain of salt.  As other reviewers have said, this is beautiful trap for the naive and ignorant, because it seems thorough, but it was a Christian interviewing Christians, so of course there can only be one outcome.    And one final comment.  It is sad to think that this review will be read by many Christians who will, simply because I am writing against a pro-Christian book, not agree with me or think this review says nothing.  They won't actually take the time to remove themselves from their faith to consider that the Bible is not accurate at all (which doesn't mean their faith is wrong), and instead will condemn everyone who says otherwise.  I have laid out solid points to consider, and yet most Christians will think it all bs without even thinking about the possibility that this book is not as solid as everyone makes it out to be.	2005-04-26
US	52945081	R2AZ4HQJUGF43T	0393319296	728974914	Invisible Monsters: A Novel	Books	3	0	1	N	N	An Okay Read	Invisible Monsters is an okay book, nothing too special about it. Its saving grace is its ending, which is unique to Palahniuk's style. The fact that I don't have much to say about this book is a tell tale in itself because it didn't evoke enough of a reaction, either for or against, to create a lasting memory.  <br /> <br />Palahniuk is a good writer and can tell a story, which is a huge plus, but the storyline in this one didn't really amount to much. So, not bad, but not good either.  <br />	2005-04-11
US	52945081	R3P94DGB9769W6	0471648116	46513881	The Warren Buffett Way, Second Edition	Books	5	1	4	N	N	Great	This is perhaps one of the better books in explaining the process and how to evaluate companies.  Through repetition of process one can easily grasp the underlying method involved in evaluating the worth of a company and what to look for.  The hard part will be using what was learned and applying it to your next purchases, but that can't be taught. <br /> <br />A recommend for anyone interested in Warren Buffett, or for value investments for that matter.	2005-03-30
US	52945081	R3SSO9N2OKDZDQ	0785243038	617144895	1: Evidence That Demands a Verdict	Books	1	40	89	N	N	Not evidecnce	This book is most certainly not evidence that demands a verdict.  The premise used is that this book must be accepted as history, for if you disgard it then you are disgarding thousands of books that are considered history.  So, on the flip side, since we must accept it as history than the scriptures are history and the witness accounts and so on are all true.  This is the most amount of rubbish I have ever tried to read.<br /><br />He attempts to reiterate his past opposition, froms students to professors and always makes himself out to be completely right.  One example: A student comes to him with an intellectual problem with Christianity, saying that she proved that the bible is wrong.  He asked her a simple question and then talked to her for a half hour.  After that time, she confessed to him that she made it all up in order to hide her sins.  Huh?  And this puerile example proves what?  Or his favorite mechanism is to ask someone a question and they always yell back an emphatic \\"NO\\".  Those atheists, they are so moronic!<br /><br />Here is another example to illustrate how baseless this claim is to being evidence.  A history professor speaks on Jesus.  \\"The truth is that we do not know, and in all probability the disciples knew no better, where the body of Jesus had been thrown after it had been removed from the cross, probably by the executioners.  It is more likely to have been cast into the pit for the executed than laid in a new tomb.\\"  McDowell's response is one sentence.  \\"Professor Guignebert makes these assertions with absolutely no supporting evidence for his claims.\\"  Huh?  And that is a rebuttal?  The professor uses the history of the time and the customs of the time to support his claim, what does McDowell use?<br /><br />He claims that the evidence comes from the two sources.  One, the eyewitness accounts within the bible (which obviously can't be used as irrefuttable evidence because the bible was written to support Jesus, not as an unbiased account), and two of people that were born after Jesus had died.  Huh, again?  How can their accounts be evidence if they never even saw him alive, but instead recounted what others had said?  How can either be used as evidence that demands a verdict?  Why wouldn't he bring up the accounts of the Roman governors and their passing mentioning of Jesus of Nazareth?  Obviously there isn't much evidence to support that Jesus ever existed, but what little there was was in the Roman correspondence.  How can you overlook this evidence?<br /><br />This book was written by a born again Christian with no evidence whatsoever.  What he does do is quote scripture and other Romans who were born after Jesus died and were probably closet Christians.  Evidence that would certainly not be considered evidence.  What about the evidence that the Old Testament was written just before the millenium, and not, as it was written, back thousands of years before Christ?  How do you account for the discrepancies in the four gospels?  He doesn't touch any of this, but he does tell us that Jesus was resurrected, with what he thinks is irrefutable proof, because, again he quotes the bible for evidence, Jesus' disciples found his bandages in an empty tomb.  Huh?  Rubbish.<br /><br />If this book is evidence that demands a verdict, than the verdict is that McDowell is a moronically emphatic Christian too lost in his religion to recognize that he actually hurt his case more than he helped it.that were born after Jesus had died.  Huh, again?  How can their accounts be evidence if they never even saw him alive, but instead recounted what others had said?  How can either be used as evidence that demands a verdict?  Why wouldn't he bring up the accounts of the Roman governors and their passing mentioning of Jesus of Nazareth?  Obviously there isn't much evidence to support that Jesus ever existed, but what little there was was in the Roman correspondence.  How can you overlook this evidence?    This book was written by a born again Christian with no evidence whatsoever.  What he does do is quote scripture and other Romans who were born after Jesus died and were probably closet Christians.  Evidence that would certainly not be considered evidence.  What about the evidence that the Old Testament was written just before the millenium, and not, as it was written, back thousands of years before Christ?  How do you account for the discrepancies in the four gospels?  He doesn't touch any of this, but he does tell us that Jesus was resurrected, with what he thinks is irrefutable proof, because, again he quotes the bible for evidence, Jesus' disciples found his bandages in an empty tomb.  Huh?  Rubbish.    If this book is evidence that demands a verdict, than the verdict is that McDowell is a moronically emphatic Christian too lost in his religion to recognize that he actually hurt his case more than he helped it.	2005-03-20
US	52945081	R2A227E72V09RQ	0452283868	921712930	Sula (Oprah's Book Club)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	A contemporary author worth studying	Morrison amazes me every time I read one of her novels.  Paradise is by far her best novel, so deep and complex and moving and all together connected and finished.  Sula may not be on that scale, but it is, none the less, a complex and deep story that is worth studying and looking deeper into.    The book is a tale of two women and their friendship.  A literary author like Morrison pays attention to detail.  Their names are the first clue.  Nel Wright and Sula Peace.  Their names are ironically contrived to portray what is not there for the two characters.  Wright would mean 'right', which Nel is not throughout the book (except, perhaps, at the end), and Peace is the opposite of what Sula is and how she interacts with the society she lives in.  Both are ironic names meant to identify with what the characters are not.    Anyway, Morrison does a wonderful job creating this story.  Her writing is so literary and powerful, being extremely concise with every word she choses.  Convictions, emotion, sentimentality and passion are all felt and believed.  In the end the story wraps full around and creates a feeling of completeness despite the despicable woman that Sula was.  Nel's realization at the end of the novel is a moral lesson that is all to often overlooked and ignored.  Without giving anything away, it is a realization that more people need to come to instead of turning to and lumping everyone into the category of hate.  The relationships we build are cumulative and the meaningful times should not be forgotten despite who the person has become.    A recommend for anyone looking for a deep, complex and fun read, all the while remaining completely accesible for everyone.	2005-02-24
US	52945081	R2TEKM8VBKR2XQ	0385419732	248679078	Outside the Dog Museum	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Carroll does it again	Carroll continually amazes me in his writing style.  He writes in a way that is both casual and literal, allowing the reader to fully submerge themselves into the story.  His dialogue reads as a movie or play and not as a book, creating an image that is fully alive within your mind (such as leaving the tedious details out that many writers feel are necessary, such as a question and answer, where Carroll would state the question and imply an answer by continuing on with the story). <br /> <br />I think it is because of this that I still gave this book a four star.  The book is great, until you begin to get to the end and wonder where it was going.  It had a fluid storyline that developed and intrigued the reader, but then it turns into something that didn't have a connection (or, at the most, a very loose connection) to what was written before it.  But, all in all, a story was told and ideas were perceived, not to mention the smooth and enjoyable fluidity of his words, which creates a book worth reading.	2005-02-23
US	52945081	R22TEKMA6DQVBP	0521558727	403631008	The New Knighthood: A History of the Order of the Temple (Canto)	Books	5	5	5	N	Y	Absolutely wonderful!	This is an absolutely wonderful book for anyone at all interested in The Templars. This is a full and original work of research that covers every detail you can imagine about The Templars. If I must chose something that detracts from the over all feeling of the book is the chapter called The Templar Network as this is a rather dry account of the manors and so on throughout the Continent and the Kingdom of Jerusalem. If you do chose to read this book I would recommend skipping most of the chapter mentioned above until Barber starts talking about the Templar network as a reliable bank for kings and popes alike. I highly recommend this book!    This is the reference that should be looked to before all others when reading or learning about the Templars.	2005-02-23
US	52945081	RSJVZKTA3OUFP	0743251040	782484777	The Serpent and the Moon: Two Rivals for the Love of a Renaissance King	Books	3	31	34	N	N	Interesting, but not a recommend	I picked up this book because the author's noble title interested me.  Normally I would stay away from a history book not written by an accredited historian, but the fact that she is royalty swayed that a bit as it gave hope that perhaps her insight into a world that only a few belong would be valuable. <br /> <br />At times this was true, perhaps, and there was some insight.  But for the most part it was common knowledge that she reiterated, not really shedding any new light at all.  Additionally, as other reviewers had stated, it seems that she really does not like Medici.  Strange to take such a strong point of view when writing about history.  History should be neutral, not judgemental.  A point in her favor is that there probably was hate in Medici, but would this be any different than any other wife of the nobility who was affronted by a concubine and her husbund?  No, there wouldn't be, so why put so much emphasis on Catherine? <br /> <br />As well, she focused way too much on the fashion of the time and what each woman was wearing.  Certainly this should be included, perhaps as a side note, but not in every single chapter, sometimes going on for pages.  Not to mention the fact that she repeated her description of the fashion and fabrics worn over and over again.  This should be a history of the relationship of Henri II, Catherine and Diane (as the underlying stated premise of the book , not a rehashing of what they wore on a daily basis). <br /> <br />All in all, if you have free time and can't find a better history book to read, then give it a go.  Otherwise, I wouldn't recommend this book.	2005-02-23
US	52945081	R1EBQ5VMB3JRDI	0306810719	733944985	The Templars: The Dramatic History Of The Knights Templar, The Most Powerful Military Order Of The Crusades	Books	1	30	39	N	N	Not Templar history, don't be fooled by the title	Having bought this book a while ago I wasn't able to read it until now. And although you get a good history breakdown of all the major players of the Crusades, you don't get a picture of The Templars! Why sell a book, and name a book, that is supposed to be about the Templars when you don't really write about them? This is a poor attempt by Piers Paul Read to capitalize on the Templar name in an attempt to sell more of his book. First off, he isn't a true historian. So the previous reviewer who stated that this is one of the best researched books is sorely wrong. All he has done is compile what all the TRUE researchers have come up with and then stamp his name on the cover. He didn't do any research! All total, if you combine everything that is actually about the Templars, then you may have forty pages worth. He has whole chapters based on Richard the Lionheart, Saladin, Frederick of Hohenstaufen, Louis of France, the Enemies Within (which is a chapter on the struggles that Christians and the papacy are going through on the continent). One of the final chapters, named The Temple in Exile, hints that you finally will get a chapter on the Templars, even if it is of their downfall, but this chapter rarely talks about them! Instead he spends the chapter discussing Philip IV of France and the struggles he has with Boniface VIII.    And who edited this book? There are so many typos that it is misleading at times. He transposes names where they shouldn't be, as in Turks instead of Byzantine, or Clement V instead of Clement IV, date of 1177 instead of 1277, and the list goes on and on. At first you brush it off saying that it happens, don't worry, but then they keep coming. Was this book edited at all to make sure that it is accurate?    Another hint that he is not a historian writing this book is that, and I wish I remember where he wrote this (I think it was of Philip IV and his wife Joan), he claims as evidence that the king and his wife loved each other and had affection of each other was because they had eleven children! Does he know absolutely nothing about medieval marriage practices? Does he know anything about marriages made to further the family's possessions and power? Is he completely numb to the history of England revolving around Henry II and Eleanor of Aquitaine and the number of children they had despite them not liking or having affection for each other, eventually resulting in Eleanor being imprisoned? Such assumptions show that he is not a historian and his book should not be taken as one. Also, he mentions Joseph and when the Israelites came to him for grain and were saved, but doesn't mention that the Israelites are Joseph's blood brothers. Little stuff where a small amount of essential detail is left out shows where he is lacking. Look at the books he has written! Mostly fiction, with a few nonfiction that don't touch anywhere near the same periods of history (for example, remember the movie Alive? The rugby team whose plane crashed in the Andes and they started eating the dead bodies? This is his other nonfiction. Doesn't relate to the time period at all, showing that he is an amateur historian, not a professional historian).    If you are looking for a really broad overview of the times, from the Mongols in the east to England in the west, and everything in between, then read this book. This is not a book about the Templars, but rather about the monarchs of the Continent and England, and the Crusades. And you shouldn't be reading this if you already have a firm grasp on medieval times, because this book is for people without any background in this period of history.    All in all, very disappointed. I had very high expectations when I purchased this book. But that is what I get for buying it before seeing what qualifies the author to write on the subject.	2005-02-23
US	52945081	R4FJAVBN3KUUK	0679743421	888165111	Machiavelli in Hell	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Intellectually stimulating and thought provoking	To those of you looking for an easy read on Machiavelli, I recommend going somewhere else. This book isn't going to skimp on the scholarly side just to make it easier to read for others. This is an intelligent book for an intelligent reader. Grazia intricately weaves together the mindset of Machiavelli as we see him through his many works and letters to friends.     At first I was a little disappointed, perhaps because I was looking more for the momentous doings of Machiavelli. Yet, as I worked through the sheer volume of this biography (not by number of pages, yet rather by the number of words per page) I began to grow and respect Grazia as I slowly began to realize who Machiavelli was and how his thoughts and ideas influenced so many. His thoughts are his astounding accomplishments and those we certainly see here.    For those interested in reading an intellectual book, definitely read this one. Machiavelli always believed that a person becomes a learned person through reading. For someone who agrees with this mindset I would wholeheartedly recommend this book to anyone that has intelligence enough to want to learn rather than those readers who simply are looking for an easy read.	2005-02-23
US	52945081	R1IKOOQ46YAGM7	0380792273	363051018	The One Kingdom (The Swans' War, Book 1)	Books	2	4	7	N	Y	An attempt at epic fantasy	The One Kingdom and, more importantly, Sean Russell show for a poor outing. The book's characters are not defined and rather shallow, able to be pushed over with the slightest breeze. The plot structure is rather forced and unbelievable many times when he tries to introduce something new and magical. The book itself rambled on very slow until the end when it picked up and everything started coming together. For this I give a three star because my interest was caught at the end. But the book itself seems rather amateurish as the dialogue is forced and rather fake. But, I may just yet purchase the next one in the series if only to follow the character Alaan, who is probably the only good character in the book, and perhaps Prince Michael. Certainly not Tam, Fynnol or the others.	2005-02-23
US	52945081	R8JUOJAZFIHC2	019516136X	326570488	Bloodfeud	Books	3	12	19	N	N	Misleading title and description	When reading the title and the description, as well as the first few pages of the opening chapter, you get a feel for what you are about to read.  It is only shortly after you have started the book that you realize you have been deceived.    This book is most certainly not about 'bloodfeud' as the title hints.  Sure, there is a feud that is mentioned a few times throughout the book, but that only accounts for roughly 15 pages of the 203.  Not much information.  Another downside to this book: we understand that the sources are few next to none, must you tell us every time that you and other historians would like more sources but they are not available?  As well, there is absolutely no point to the final chapter of this book, \\"The Hagets\\".  They are a century later and yet he writes about them as though they have a significance, with no relation to the parties of the feud.  So besides repetition and the fact that this book is not about a 'bloodfeud', what is it about?    This book is a history on the time before William the Conqueror and shortly after, up until the doomsday book.  He does a great job in relaying this history, connecting the dots and showing where and how the loyalties were aligned and what happened because of them.  His writing style is fluid and nice as well, easy to read.  So, if you are looking for a history of a time that is not well documented, of a time before William the Conqueror, then this book should be considered.    Although this book is well written and Richard Fletcher seems to know what he is talking about, the misleading title and description is enough to show that either a) we were purposefully mislead in order to attract more interest and thus more sales, or b) he thought he could write a history about this feud and somehow strayed from his end goal.  Either way, both reasons are reason enough to rate this only a three star.	2005-02-17
US	52945081	R3SWTQAMB5JYIT	0976118106	681760545	Railroaded!	Books	4	9	10	N	N	Reservations aside, a great book	First off, I didn't really know what I could expect from Grant's book.  Initially I wasn't too impressed.  Besides some mistakes that drew your concentration away from the story, such as the inclusion of the trademark symbol (which isn't necessary) and his use of both italics and bold print (which, again only detracts from the story, rather than empasizes the meaning as Grant was trying to do.  Italics are fine, but bold print is never a good idea in a novel.  The reader should be given the benefit of the doubt that they understand where the emphasis is meant to be), there were just the common mistakes that are rounded out as you write more.  Some stilted sentences, or some preachiness, or that his characters are just too perfect (character flaws can add to the believability; but Grant chose to leave out all flaws for the main characters all together) or even a gratuitous sex scene that had no bearing on the novel except to fulfill some fantasy or other.  All of this points to a small press or, as I think here, to self-publication.    Yet, despite this, and especially because of the last sentence of the previous paragraph, the story draws you in and makes you want to read more.  It truly is a good story that allows the reader to put aside their reservations and enjoy the book for what it is.  Grant did a great job of getting from point A to B and connecting all the dots, making sure to create a storyline that is not only plausible, but believable.  This really is a good story and book that can captivate your interest.    I was going to give it three stars because of the errors in editing that detract from the story, but the book unfolded nicely and made me feel glad to have read it.    I would certainly recommend this book to anyone interested.  And I know that Grant's writing will only polish up with time, as any author's writing does, which makes me want to read Grant's next book when it comes out even more.	2005-02-16
US	52945081	RKEP2QHU9OA32	031239618X	985859251	How to Publish, Promote, and Sell Your Own Book	Books	2	14	16	N	N	Redundancy coupled with hand holding	As most aspiring authors have done, I have searched for helpful books on authoring and publishing.  I came across this book and it seemed promising because it offered both sides of the track and everything in between.  For someone interested in the basics who has not read anything, this would be a book to read. <br /> <br />Holt goes from point A to B and doesn't miss any details, no matter how small.  He'll tell you what color pencil to use in editing, to how to open your mail.  Much of this the normal person with any amount of common sense would know how to do, why fill your book with what everyone knows how to do?  Other times he writes on every detail you could imagine on how to write and prepare your manuscipt, or how to promote and distribute and so on, only to become redundant, writing the same advice several times throughout. <br /> <br />Also, this is most certainly not a book to help the fiction writer.  Where there are some anecdotes to help explain some of the printing and editing process, it is geared strictly for the nonfiction authors and their world.  He tries to mask it at first, talking about both the fiction as well as the nonfiction, but quickly leaves fiction by the wayside.  Then, out of nowhere, something on fiction will creep in for a line or two, and then is gone.  The author made no mention in the book description or title that this was a how-to book on how to write and publish how-to books.  Some blaim falls on myself, I guess, since I didn't take the time to peruse the chapter headings, but, wait, that would have still fooled me.  Even when I read some of the text of the book at the bookstore it seemed, without reading the whole book, that it would be useful on both sides.  I was wrong.   <br /> <br />If you are a fiction writer looking for guidance, look elsewhere.  As so many how-to books on publishing and writing do, this one doesn't cover fiction writing.  Every publishing how-to always says to find a field that is marketable, well how come people aren't writing on this one, on how-to write and publish fiction?  Perhaps some day, until then we must settle for the nonfiction how-tos to gleam a small amount of help.	2005-02-15
US	52945081	R1YAIXL8FAPI8C	0345464028	579397011	Iron Council	Books	3	6	6	N	N	Very slow start, great ending	I was a little skeptical reading this book because the premise didn't seem too promising (I eventually gave in because I was a little skeptical of The Scar and that turned out to be great).  At first I thought that I was right.  The writing was stilted and slow, leaving the read not as fluid.  After two hundred pages nothing had still happened and the storyline wasn't interesting.   <br /> <br />But then we meet the Iron Council after two hundred or so pages and the book begins to become interesting.  It still was a little difficult to get into because he would break the book into parts that were so far apart that you had to reaquaint yourself with the characters in order to pick up with where they are. <br /> <br />Eventually, though, everything melds together and you remember why you enjoyed Mieville's Perdido Street Station and The Scar.  His characters are certainly unique, captivating your imagination enough to evoke lasting images.  More importantly, though, is story and how he tells it.  He doesn't sit in the mold that most genre authors fall into, always trying to achieve the typical happy ending.  Mieville does this as well, but in his own way, a way that distinguishes itself and makes you think deeply on other subjects, on other ideas.  There is no better way to end a book than to make your reader think more deeply upon it after than you did while reading it.  A way to retain your readers for your next book. <br /> <br />I wish I could give it five stars, or even four, but a poor start prevents this.  No book should take two hundred pages to captivate your interest and draw you into the book.  Be that as it may, it ended great and I will certainly look forward to his next book.	2005-02-14
US	52945081	R2EII0ZF5YQC09	0688053394	336392187	The House of Medici: Its Rise and Fall	Books	4	12	12	N	N	Very good detail	This account of the House of Medici is definitely worth reading.  It chronicles its time as a prominent and important Florentine family to its rule as Grand Dukes of Tuscany.  A very good tale that is easy to read, although it isn't as well documented as it should be.    At times it would dry up as the author details in too much detail the works of art that the Medici family sank their money into or the artists they commissioned, which dragged on the telling of their history.    All in all, though, the Medici are well understood and the reader can follow from point A to B easily and understand the ups and downs of this important Florentine family.  I gave it a four because it isn't documented as well as it should be.	2005-02-14
US	52945081	R3AJ2I5NTN1T4V	0553061771	581846737	Shortest Distance Between You and a Published Book	Books	4	25	26	N	N	A great beginning source	This book is a great beginning source for someone who is an aspiring author.  It goes through the motions that an author should do and, at times, parts with valuable information on how to perceive a situation with an editor, agent or publishor, as well as the section on how to promote your book and get it into the bookstores.  So, I would definitely recommend this book to anyone who wants to be or is an aspiring author.    But, as the previous reviewer had noted, if you are looking for a hand holding, this would be the book to read.  She takes you from point A to point B, no matter how small, and explains every detail.  At times I could only skip ahead because it is something that is extremely basic that she is going into such detail, and at others I find myself skipping because of its redundancy.  As well, this book is definitely geared for the nonfiction writer more so than it is for the fiction writer, although there are many useful tidbits that the fiction writer could take in.    All in all, which is why I gave it a four star, she does as she sets out to do, and that is to compile much of the information to the questions that many of the beginning authors have.  If you are familiar with the field, I would stay away.  But for the amateur just starting out, she does a great job in walking you through the steps and how to continue on with success.	2005-02-06
US	52945081	R157GV4W6A62LJ	0345444388	397145373	The Scar (Bas-Lag)	Books	5	4	6	N	N	Absolutely wonderful	Frankly, I was a little skeptical in trying to read this book.  Afterall, how can a story that takes place on a bunch of boats tied together be interesting?  Leaving my skepticism aside, because, of course, for Mieville's resounding success with Perdido, I bought the book.  I could not have been any more happy.  I thought Perdido was great, but The Scar is much better. <br /> <br />Taking place shortly after the events of Perdido, the plot quickly moves forward with enough suspense and emotion to want to continue to read, regardless of the time.  Again, as with my review for Perdido, the strangeness of the characters brings so much flavor to this book, breathing life into an arena of literature that could be seen as lackluster, or becoming so at least. <br /> <br />Either way, if you read and liked Perdido Street Station and want to read another by Mieville, then definitely read this one.  And, if you haven't read Perdido, I would recommend reading this one.  The events take place after Perdido, but you don't need to know what happened in Perdido to understand The Scar.  If anything, Perdido Street Station would be a good place to start because it gives more detail into the types of races and structure of society that you don't receive as much of in The Scar. <br /> <br />Either way, a fun and exciting read.  A recommend for everyone, regardless of their genre preference.	2005-02-02
US	52945081	R39UBL1Z06VV3N	0345459407	981903971	Perdido Street Station	Books	5	1	3	N	N	Strange, yet captivating	Mieville breathes some life into many genres all at the same time.  His use of horror, gothic, sci-fi, fantasy and so on captivates you, leaving you wanting more. <br /> <br />At first, of course, it is a little hard to read.  You wonder who these characters are and why are they so strange and different.  This, though, is the key to Mieville's success.  He writes so well that you believe the characters and feel for them, despite being so alien and unreal. <br /> <br />In fact, Mieville has created his own world, leaving you in awe of what he has created. <br /> <br />The plot itself flows effortlessly, moving from point to point with enough drive and acceleration to make you want more.  When it climaxes and concludes, you are left with jaw open.  Not because of anything spectacular, but because of how it ends, so uncharacteristic for most authors.  Yet, as a good author does, the different ending works perfectly, leaving you feeling like you have just read something great.	2005-02-02
US	52945081	R306A16VK350V	0380977427	727370009	Quicksilver (The Baroque Cycle, Vol. 1)	Books	4	7	7	N	N	wonderful writing and use of history	I hadn't read anything of Stephenson since I read Snow Crash years ago.  I was impressed then, and I am impressed now.   <br /> <br />Stephenson can be a little long winded at times, but for the most part the book is fluid (with tangents that are interesting, yet not always important to the story) and well written.   <br /> <br />What makes this series so interesting is his use of history throughout.  He is extremely accurate and very thorough in his representation of late 17th and early 18th century.  Even his fictitious characters seem as though they belong to history. <br /> <br />Stephenson's versatility is amazing to say the least.  Writing a sci-fi thriller in Snow Crash, or a WWII code breaker in Cryptonomocon (spelling?) or a historical novel in Quicksilver, all of which are full of detail and concise. <br /> <br />Nothing more to say, because this series is very straight forward.  Long and full of history with a story intertwined, enough to enjoy and relax with.  But, if you enjoy quick reads and not so complex story lines, stay away.	2005-02-02
US	52945081	RPDA2CKHJGPKE	0060523867	783016934	The Confusion (The Baroque Cycle, Vol. 2)	Books	4	2	3	N	N	History and writing, a great combination	With the continuation of Quicksilver Stephenson has done another great job in using history to buffer his story line, making it believable at the same time.  As we see Shaftoe again, this time as a slave and eventually, well I will leave this for the reader to discover, making his escapades fun and interesting to read. <br /> <br />Again, this is a long winded rendition of a story intertwined with history.  This is not a quick read, and can be difficult at times to struggle through.  But, with all that said, his writing is wonderful and the story line is fun and interesting.  Anyone who enjoyed any of Stephenson's other books would enjoy this series as well (permitting you like history), and I doubt you would be disappointed.  His sheer grasp of what he writes about, whether in sci-fi, WWII or in 17th century Europe, is enough to captivate and catch a hold of your interest.	2005-02-02
US	52945081	RW985QPC7S5SE	1585675601	473100658	The Warrior Prophet (The Prince of Nothing, Book 2)	Books	5	13	15	N	N	Utterly Amazing	I am shocked to see how dim witted some people can be when trying to read a book.  They fail to look to the time trying to be portrayed and the roles that are evoked, and instead attempt to place a modern day contemporary point of view.  Does this not go against fantasy all together? <br /> <br />Anyway, again, I am utterly amazed at this book.  The first book was good, well written and good character interaction, but I didn't think it great.  This book, on the other hand, adds to the first book and surpases it.  I couldn't put the book down, not wanting to stop.  Bakker ties in history (the crusades, obvioulsy, come to mind) with the fantasy aspect of otherworldy things (such as the Schools).  This is the making of a great writer, one who can tie in what we know with what we don't and be able to make it one continuous believable story. <br /> <br />Again, I have only a petty complaint (same series, obvioulsy the same complaint), and that is that he attempts to make the names and places sound so foreign in order to bring you into the fantasy.  I don't think it is necessary to distract that much from our contemporary lives, and, in fact, sometimes the names and places are distracting. <br /> <br />Again, one petty complaint for a book that is the best I have read in a long time.  As Jordan and Goodkind fail to produce books worthy to mention, the gap needed to be filled next to Martin and Williams.  Bakker stepped in at a wonderful time and I can't wait for the next book.	2005-01-30
US	52945081	R14FK021YSXW3V	0671027360	141370518	Angels & Demons	Books	5	3	4	N	N	refreshing	I read The DaVinci Code first and, after being disappointed, decided against reading anything else of Brown's.  But, a friend enjoyed it and I was given it as a Christmas present by my cousin, so why not, right?    I was so pleased that I did.  Seeing the historical inaccuracies of the DaVinci Code made me want to verify the historical facts in this book, and, to my surprise, he is very accurate!  His use of history and combination of great writing and character interaction make this book a must read.  If you are curious about Brown because of all the publicity he has been recieving lately, read this book first.  Not only is it better but it is more accurate, not too mention the fact that he uses the same general story line in these two books, so why not read the better of the two?    Two thumbs up for Angels & Demons.  Pleasantly surprised.	2005-01-23
US	52945081	R2C11KX8RXIKDH	1585675598	380195986	The Darkness That Comes Before (The Prince of Nothing, Book 1)	Books	5	4	6	N	N	Wow, another fantasy author we can read!	Lately, I have given up trying to discover new authors to read in the fantasy genre.  All too often they are horrible writers that struggle to create a believable and moving story.    I was pleased to discover Bakker and his new series, able to finally enjoy myself in a new fantasy series.  His writing is fluid and understandable - and, most of all, it is believable.  The battle depictions and movements are real, and the dialogue and character interaction is not forced.  Finally, a new author that will help breathe life into a genre that is fast gaining a bad reputation.    If I have to say anything bad about this book, I would say that he fell into the oh-so-common role of feeling the need to use foreign and hard to pronounce names throughout his book.  All to often the fantasy genre attempts to pull you away from our every day lives by creating an environment that we are not familiar with, such as names and places alien to us.  Where this can be a plus in some cases, Bakker may have overdone it in this one.  Now, this is petty, I realize, but I don't see the need to create everything so foreign.  But, it is also petty for a reason, because I couldn't find too much that was bad about this book.	2005-01-23
US	52945081	R3DFN14TBAUN47	1400079179	315416156	The Da Vinci Code	Books	2	0	0	N	N	Distorted history ruins book	The writing is perhaps the only redeeming quality of this book, although there are certain areas that are interesting.  Brown's pace is very fast, but this can be kind of irritating at times because every single chapter ends in kind of a cliff hanger.  Nothing rarely gets resolved without something else happening, leaving a never ending string of chapters that irritate you more than entertain.<br /><br />Another major problem I have with this book is his usage of history.  Sure, it is a historical fiction and the author takes certain liberties, but does that mean he should change history to support his novel?  I would say no.  The history should act as a catalyst and the story written around it, yet Brown distorts and changes the history to his story.  This was the defining reason why The Da Vinci Code was not a good book in my eyes.  Angels & Demons was a much better book because it was written well and it incorporated itself into the history really well.<br /><br />A fast, okay read that distorts history.  I would not recommend.<br /><br />2 stars.	2005-01-18
US	52945081	RRW07KGS7I6NP	0140283617	520659636	The Hundred Years War: The English in France 1337-1453	Books	5	7	7	N	Y	Great overall view of this important time in history	Seward does a great job in illustrating what the Hundred Years War was and how it affected the French and the English.  For someone looking for a concise overview of this important time, I would recommend this book.  It does not go into too much depth within the actual battles and how they were fought, focusing only on who fought and the general formation taken, so if you are looking for the military approach this book should only be used as a reference. <br /> <br />Seward is a great historian and one that I will gladly turn to when I have a question.	2005-01-18
US	52945081	R2E24C0N3GON6T	0765305232	393437308	Chainfire: Chainfire Trilogy, Part 1 (Sword of Truth, Book 9)	Books	1	13	22	N	N	Put me out of my misery!	First off, I was a huge fan of Goodkind with his first four books.  Then Soul of the Fire and Faith of the Fallen came out and they were okay, but since then, with emphasis on the two most recent, he has turned to an author that I merely read because I have invested so much time and money into it already.    Three things:  One, does he really need to wax philosophically every time a character opens his/her mouth?  On the same note, how is it possible that every character is an expert in everything and knows everything and can talk for two pages, uninterupted?    Second, treating your readers as though they are second graders doesn't improve the quality of the book, contrary to what Goodkind may think.  I think we get the concept of why two riders must take six horses, you don't need to repeat it over and over, with an explanation each time, as to why they are doing so.  I think we get the concept that she was the mayor's wife, you don't need to say it in every sentence, nor do you need to explain it in such detail.  This happens throughout the book as he drills it home what he is trying to do.  Goodkind certainly isn't subtle.    Finally, what's with the dialogue?  I think a second grader, much as Goodkind was doing with his book, can write better dialogue.    So, to sum everything up, you may be like me and decide that you have read this far so you have to read another worthless book by Goodkind.  But if you are a new reader and trying to decide if you want to read this series, stay away.    Goodking went from a great writer that I looked forward to reading, to one that I dread putting out another book.  As much as he made his career off of the first four, I think he killed it on the last five.  (This, by the way, seems to be a running thread with authors who think that series have to be long to be good.  Jordan as well is falling by the wayside as he churns out more books in his series in an attempt to make more money.  Jordan, like Goodkind, started out great, but is instead killing his career by printing horrible books).	2005-01-18
US	52945081	R3RQOA3DPW2PQK	0312857055	361278280	Wizard's First Rule (Sword of Truth, Book 1)	Books	1	7	15	N	N	Great book, horrible series	Great book, one of my favorites and the reason that I loved Goodkind so much.  In fact, his fist four books are extraordinary, they really are.  Well written with great dialogue.    Then something happened.  His series turns to rambling lectures and long two page, one sided, uninterrupted dialogue.  Explanations that were meant for two year olds.  The series is now to a point where it is the opposite of what was the beginning.  In the beginning his books made his career, made him someone that was looked to as the benchmark for fantasy.  Now, with his last two to three installments, he is destroying his career, digging his grave just so that he can make a few extra bucks and prolong the series.  Maybe he exhausted all his good writing and ideas in the first few books.  Who knows, but what is certain is that he certainly lost it somewhere.    If you are considering starting to read this series, don't.  As good as the first few books are, the series will suck your intelligence from you and leave you bewildered, wondering why you even wasted the time to read Goodkind's books.	2005-01-18
US	52945081	R32PUST4Z89OHX	0521447941	844264039	The King's Mother: Lady Margaret Beaufort, Countess of Richmond and Derby	Books	5	19	19	N	Y	A great bio	Let's face it, women of the medieval times aren't too well known, and those that are, such Eleanor of Aquitaine, are hidden behind shadows and are really only noticed through the male figure(s) in her life.<br /><br />That being said, Jones and Underwood did a great job in illustrating just who Margaret Beaufort really was.  Not only do they capture the influence that she had and the political maneuvering that she had to do, but they also capture her life after her son became king, showing her role in religious houses and orders as well as the universities.<br /><br />A great bio for a great woman.  Anyone studying the Tudors should read this book.  Anyone, for that matter, interested in England in the fifteenth century must read this book.  Margaret Beaufort's role was just too important.	2005-01-18
US	52945081	R1J2AQBH4AEFRN	0141390581	277164848	Henry V as Warlord (Classic Military History)	Books	5	3	5	N	Y	Warlord indeed!	Henry V was one of the most ferocious of England's kings.  Through sheer force of will alone he was able to quell his English nobility into following him, and then turn to the French and do the same to them.    Seward does a great job in using the contemporary sources of the time to illustate who the man really was, all the meanwhile not falling prey to the trappings of the propoganda of the time.  His illustration of the man's short life is invaluable to anyone reading French or English history, but especially for anyone who is looking for information on the Hundred Years War.    A must read for history buffs.	2005-01-18
US	52945081	R2Y6X2V9IJOQTI	0765305224	768895051	Naked Empire (Sword of Truth)	Books	2	6	8	N	N	Another fluff book	Okay, what is going on here?  Goodkind is trying to milk as much money out of the public that he can.  First off, I am a Goodkind fan.  The first four books were absolutely amazing.  The last four in the series are so so, especially the last, Naked Empire.<br />First, what's with the monologues?  Every character constantly breaks into a page or longer monologue.  Is there no interaction between the characters?  They will be in the heat of battle, everyone is mad, ready to kill, Richard has a man by the collar holding inches from his face and, what happens?  The man everyone wants to kill breaks into a monologue and everyone patiently waits.  Then, on top of that, they sit him down and he delivers another monologue.  I mean, come on!  The monologues are so often and so long that you read through them thinking 'blah blah blah' until they return to the story.  Where is the real character interaction?  And why is everything repeated over and over again within the monologue, as well as throughout the book?  Why?  Because he needed to create the words that could give him the large book.<br />Tell me, what language can remain utterly isolated, no contact with the parent language, for over a thousand years and remain exactly the same?  It isn't possible.  English wasn't even a language a thousand years ago, seven hundred years ago in Chaucer's time it is utterly unrecognizable, Shakespeare's time is different but recognizable, even a hundred years ago is a little different.  Yet Goodkind has not only the Old World and New World languages the same (after much more than a thousand years) but this new Empire as the (I can say this much since the previous reviewer decided to reveal the plot line) same as well!  Granted in fantasy we are to suspend reality, but not to this extent.  At least follow the normal paths of evolution so that we can base something that looks real, and therefore be able to identify with it.<br />And what's with the goat?  Who brings a goat into the middle of battle, or takes a goat into a town to start killing people?  Who takes a goat with you everywhere you go, in peril and in pleasure?<br />There are some parts that are fascinating, though.  Zedd's chapters are good and are perhaps the only chapters that evoked any emotion at all (which is sad because Goodkind used to be able to do this in his other first four books) and a few of Richard's chapters are alright.<br />But where has Goodkind gone to?  Who is this amateur sitting in his place?  If he would only return to the story line, where he left off after Temple of the Winds, or maybe Soul of the Fire, then perhaps he can evoke enough emotion within himself to be able to animate his stories with life.  As is, Naked Empire is yet another fluff book to fatten his wallet and draw out the series.	2003-07-25
US	52945081	R3QVFSDY9YE8XC	0395083664	546782377	The Armada (The American Heritage Library)	Books	5	5	8	N	N	Absolutely Amazing!	This has got to be one of the absolute best historical books on the Armada.  Not only on the Armada but on the politics on the continent as it pertained to England and Spain.  It is very accurate in its facts and portrays them in a way that brings the characters and events alive, leaving you with a craving feeling to read more and more.  Written like a novel yet with the facts of a history book.  A recommend for anyone looking for a gripping historical account of the struggle between Spain and England that resulted in the Armada's attempt to invade England.	2003-01-30
