US	52940618	R28P3DVRJVOIU8	1595550119	887393285	Hoodwinked: How Intellectual Hucksters Have Hijacked American Culture	Books	5	44	55	N	Y	Hoodwinked is Mandatory Reading	This book should be on everybody's shelf.  I thank Jack Cashill for providing me with the truth regarding the infamous Sacco & Vanzetti episode in American history.  Never before was I aware that these two convicted murderers had little interest in politics.  They were not dissidents, but common criminals.  Their case was used by radical Leftists merely as a way to slime the American justice system.  Cashill doggedly takes to task the false heroes of the liberal establishment.  Some of them may be best described as gullible dupes.  Others are out and out liars.  Cashill's rogue gallery includes Alger Hiss, Ward Churchill, Michael Bellesiles, Rachel Carson, Rigoberta Menchu,  Margaret Sanger,  Alfred Kinsley, Lillian Hellman, and countless others.  A number of these individuals are literally responsible for the deaths of millions.  This may especially true of the previously mentioned Carson and her absurd attack on the pesticide DDT.  Did she have the best intentions?  I am not interested in playing God.  We need only be concerned about the horrific results.  Utopian minded liberals have placed these icons of progressive thought on flimsy pedestals made of quick sand.  The evidence the author offers is more than sufficient to destroy their ill deserved reputations.  Only the committed ideologue will remain unconvinced.<br /><br />I rarely so unambiguously recommend a particular book.  Some books are just not for everyone.  Jack Cashill's work, however, is a rare exception.  There is too much information that requires your undivided attention.  The agenda driven liberal media and institutions have pull a fast one on us.  How can we rectify the situation if we remain ignorant of their errors?  Please take my advice and purchase a copy of Hoodwinked.  The odds are highly favorable that you won't regret it.	2005-07-24
US	52940618	R2K2ZDTGPG059Y	1400062918	362137611	Secrets of the Kingdom: The Inside Story of the Secret Saudi-U.S. Connection	Books	5	24	36	N	Y	Posner reminds us of how little we know of Saudi Arabia	One can only hope that the Saudi royal family has not booby trapped the oil reserves.  But why wouldn't they exercise this option?  It seems entirely reasonable to me.  Saudi Arabia's military could never defeat a serious invasion.  How else will they be able to dissuade others from violently overthrowing the present Saudi power structure?  And yes, I wish that Gerald Posner could offer more than an anonymous source to back up the central revelation of Secrets of the Kingdom.  He is, however, a highly respected historian and journalist who is careful not to jeopardize his credibility.  As mater of fact, the very value of this book revolves around one's trust of the author's integrity and ability not to be conned by those he is interviewing. I'm betting that Posner is trustworthy.  Would the Israelis attempt to deceive us about the intentions of the Saudis?  This line of reasoning fails to make any sense.  What does Israel gain by persuading the United States that Saudi Arabia's oil production could be rendered useless in virtually a few minutes?<br /><br />The House of Saud has manipulated both major political parties.  Many of our former diplomatic professionals and academics obtain lucrative employment with Saudi funded groups.  They do little to risk upsetting their employers.  From a de facto perspective---these Americans are often more loyal to the Saudis then they are to their own country.  This sad predicament has left us essentially ignorant concerning what is actually going in the Kingdom.  Which of the Saudi princes are in charge? Is it the secular moderate faction or those inclined towards Whabbism?  At best, we may only be able to take an educated guess.  Gerald Posner adds a few more pieces to the puzzle.  This alone makes Secrets of the Kingdom worth reading.	2005-05-29
US	52940618	R1BLZFUTW06WPO	1401301126	288801979	Privilege: Harvard and the Education of the Ruling Class	Books	5	15	34	N	Y	Is Harvard University a Criminal Enterprise?	A prosecuting attorney might be able to use Privilege as evidence to open up a criminal investigation.  And no, I'm not even slightly guilty of employing hyperbolic rhetoric.  Ross Gregory Douthat's book is a bombshell.  He describes Harvard University as an empire of moral corruption.  President Larry Summers and the rest of its top officials may readily remind you of Tony Soprano and his crew.  Grade inflation is the norm.  It was \\"easy for my classmates and me to believe, consciously or unconsciously, that the classroom was just another resume-padding opportunity\\" adds the author.  \\"Look, I can't afford a B in this class if I want to get into law school, people say before marching off to beg a teaching fellow for a boost into the B+/A- range,\\" points out the author.  Later on the same page, Douthat refers to a professor who openly says that \\"If you want to fail someone, you have to be prepared for a very long, painful battle with the higher echelons of the administration.\\"  People have been sent to prison for doing far less.  Why are the so-called elites able to get away with such outrageous behavior?  Where is Eliot Spitzer when you really need him?<br /><br />Does Harvard hate America?  According to Douthat this allegedly elite university didn't even \\"offer a single class on the American Revolution during my four years at harvard.\\"  A typical Harvard man supposedly knows more about porn stars like Jenna Jameson than \\"the chronology of the Civil War.\\" Douthat himself candidly admits to pulling a fast one on Harvard professor Catherine Corman.  He deliberately wrote pure gibberish in a paper he presented to her, and was rewarded with the standard A!  This book should not be read by those easily angered and possessing minimal ethical standards.  Is the author accurately informing us concerning his experiences at Harvard?  Could Douthat be guilty of exaggerating?  Well, let's put this way.  If even half of what he says is true---Harvard University is little more than a scam operation.  And yet,  Harvard is still among the very best that America has to offer.  Isn't that a frightening thought?  Can you imagine what the worst schools must be like?  I hope that Privilege is a best seller.  This book can do a lot of good.  It must not be ignored.  There's simply too much at stake.  Whether we like it or not, Harvard is an overwhelming influential institution.  The former CEO of General Motors, Alfred P. Sloan, once declared that what is good for his company was good for the overall country.  In many respects, the same can said about Harvard University.<br /><br />I also strongly urge everyone to read Murray Sperber's excellent \\"Beer and Circus.\\"  This fine work readily compliments \\"Privilege.\\"  Spreber reminds us that the liberals with all their silly deconstructionist nonsense are not the only ones responsible for the decline in today's universities.  We must not overlook the damage caused by the conservatives who encourage grade inflation to protect unqualified athletes.  Harvard doesn't even have a major sports program.  Let's be fair, how many liberals attend these athletic contests?scam operation.  And yet,  Harvard is still among the very best that America has to offer.  Isn't that a frightening thought?  Can you imagine what the worst schools must be like?  I hope that Privilege is a best seller.  This book can do a lot of good.  It must not be ignored.  There's simply too much at stake.  Whether we like it or not, Harvard is an overwhelming influential institution.  The former CEO of General Motors, Alfred P. Sloan, once declared that what is good for his company was good for the overall country.  In many respects, the same can said about Harvard University.      I also strongly urge everyone to read Murray Sperber's excellent \\"Beer and Circus.\\"  This fine work readily compliments \\"Privilege.\\"  Spreber reminds us that the liberals with all their silly deconstructionist nonsense are not the only ones responsible for the decline in today's universities.  We must not overlook the damage caused by the conservatives who encourage grade inflation to protect unqualified athletes.  Harvard doesn't even have a major sports program.  Let's be fair, how many liberals attend these athletic contests?	2005-03-11
US	52940618	R214MPCIAP70DK	0743247698	273794631	Animals in Translation: Using the Mysteries of Autism to Decode Animal Behavior	Books	5	23	33	N	Y	An Autistic Understanding of Animal Behavior	I have been reading Animals in Translation for almost a month.  There is so much to learn between its covers.  Temple Grandin suffers from autism.  This lifelong affliction, though, apparently helps her to better understand the animal kingdom.  An autistic human being thinks in pictures---and this is probably the way an animal perceives the outer world.  Thankfully, I saw no evidence that she shares the fatuous philosophical views of Peter Singer.  Animals are not equal to us.  Some people may even have to eat them to remain healthy.  Vegetarianism is not always a viable option.  Grandin does not make the mistake of anthropomorphizing these creatures.  On the contrary, she warns that this inevitably hurts them.  Are you a dog lover?  Her insights on how best develop a viable relationship with your canine friend is alone worth the price of this splendid book.<br /><br /> Do you remember B.F. Skinner?  It seems that he was not always the perfect gentleman.  Grandin is also not sure if the famous behaviorist theories pass the test of logical consistency.  Are you worried about the conditions of our slaughter houses?  The author provides recommendations that could alleviate much suffering.  Our elected officials should know that Grandin is not all that thrilled by some of the rules and regulations mandated by governmental bureaucrats.  Often they backfire and stupidly cause more harm than good.  Upton Sinclair wrote his famous, The Jungle, in 1906.  Temple Grandin contends that there are still problems which cannot be ignored.<br /><br />Animals are geniuses in their own unique manner.  Pigeons, for example, may be able to tell the difference between a Monet and a Picasso.  I can't always do that!  Chimpanzees sometimes even manufacture their own tools.  We homo sapiens dominate the planet.  Still,  we should never overlook the contributions of these creatures.  The world would be a very lonely place without them.  Animals in Translation is a must read.  I highly recommend it.ly recommend it.	2005-01-22
US	52940618	R359DE3FKDM10	0312324723	706279848	Bush Country: How Dubya Became a Great President While Driving Liberals Insane	Books	5	60	101	N	N	Dubya Outwits His  Insane Enemies	President George W. Bushs foes prefer to consider him dumb and perhaps even deceitful. A handful go so far as to compare the leader of the United States with Adolph Hitler without the latters talents. John Podhoretz begs to differ and provides us with a solid case arguing that in fact the current White House occupant may be one of the greatest American leaders of all time. We are also in a long term conflict to the death against terrorists committed to destroying us. Thus, George W. Bush is first, last, and foremost, a war president. Far too many Americans, adds the author, are downplaying the importance of 9/11. They are beginning to consider it so five minutes ago. Liberals and even some conservatives try to pretend that the threat isnt really that serious. Podhoretz believes this sort of thinking is both delusional and dangerous.  The nihilistic islamic extremists are unlikely to turn to more benign pursuits.  Our children may very well have to deal with this crisis many years after we are gone.<br />Podhoretz goes into meticulous detail answering the slanders and well meaning criticisms of those who doubt the abilities of Dubya. Is George W. Bush a perfect man and always above crass politics? No, the democratic process often compels one to be pragmatic if they wish to accomplish major goals. Democratic politics is similar to sausage making and not always pretty to look at. President Bush is no different in this regard than Washington, Lincoln, or Reagan. He embraces a moderate evangelical Protestantism which underpins his every thought and action. The President is neither a war monger nor a man wanting to enrich himself at the expense of the citizenry. Does Dubya have a weakness that endangers his presidency? The author reveals instances when the President appears too willing to trust people who are up to no good. Bush seems to want to believe the best about folks like Senator Edward Kennedy, a relentless foe dedicated to destroying everything he represents. What lesson of life keeps President Bush on his toes? It may very well be the failure of his father to be reelected. This is a defeat that could have been avoided. The president, according to Podhoretz, will not act immorally to stay in office---but will make every reasonable effort to win a second term. --Bush Country--will help you understand how President Bush perceives his presidency. He will probably be reelected and remain a force to be reckoned with for another half decade. It  therefore behooves all of us to increase our knowledge concerning what makes President Bush tick. Moreover, we need to comprehend why the odds favor that his political foes will probably get even crazier.ents. What lesson of life keeps President Bush on his toes? It may very well be the failure of his father to be reelected. This is a defeat that could have been avoided. The president, according to Podhoretz, will not act immorally to stay in office---but will make every reasonable effort to win a second term. --Bush Country--will help you understand how President Bush perceives his presidency. He will probably be reelected and remain a force to be reckoned with for another half decade. It  therefore behooves all of us to increase our knowledge concerning what makes President Bush tick. Moreover, we need to comprehend why the odds favor that his political foes will probably get even crazier.	2004-03-05
US	52940618	R1WWY62EK93VH8	0312326998	764840640	The Trouble with Islam: A Muslim's Call for Reform in Her Faith	Books	5	21	30	N	Y	Is it Possible to Reform the Islamic Faith?	?It?s up to us in the West to drop reactionary charges of racism against the whistleblowers of Islam and lead the charge for change,? contends Irshad Manji.  The virus of political correctness is inhibiting many well meaning people from addressing the threat of Muslim extremist fundamentalism.  Ms. Manji is a brave woman who is something of a theological modernist daring to confront the reactionary Islamic religion of her childhood.  Those of us born within the Judeo-Christian traditions rarely faced anything this extreme.  Even the more liberal interpretations of Islam regard women as second class citizens.  Intolerance of other world views is the norm, and the mere wish for theological reform is deemed heretical---and sometimes worthy of a death sentence.  It is almost miraculous that the author overcame countless subtle, and not so subtle, attacks on her self esteem.  The fact that she is also a lesbian certainly didn?t make her life any easier.  What are the odds that Islam might be reformed?  Manji isn?t sure, but she?s willing to give it her best effort.<br />?If the nuances of Islam deserve to be recognized,? adds the Irshad Manji, ?so do the nuances of the West.?  The United States  (and implicitly the Bush administration) has a great opportunity to militarily free the Afghans and Iraqis.  However, the situation in the former country leaves something to be desired, and the ill-wishers of America ?have announced that you?ll abandon the Iraqis too. Prove the assassins of American character, dead wrong. Please don?t hand them more ammunition.? Manji shares with us her evolving realization that the Palestinians are not mere victims.  Instead, the author believe that much of their grief is due to their poor choice of leaders.  This is also the case for most of the Muslim nations.  Indulging in self pity and scapegoating, asserts the author, isn?t going to improve their lot in life.  Ms. Manji is a neoconservative who might  hesitate to candidly admit this obvious fact.  She almost certainly prefers to remain in the political liberal camp.  Will this be possible?  I sincerely doubt it, and perhaps she might wish to handle this topic in a future book.  One professional reviewer criticized Manji for her alleged ?angry tone.? This accusation is utterly without justification. Nothing could be further from the truth.  Manji is very thoughtful and lacking in bitterness.  She is not a vindictive and angry female liberationist seeking revenge.  I strongly recommend --The Trouble With Islam.--  This is the book that must be read if you truly are trying to understand the struggles moderate Muslims encounter in trying to reform their faith.  Is this merely their problem?  Not in the least.  Our motives are not limited to our altruistic impulses.  The nihilistic adherents of Islam eagerly strive to destroy civilization.  Our very instinct for self preservation compels us to partner with her to insure the very survival of the world.  We and our loved ones may be personally doomed if Irshad Manji fails to accomplish her daunting mission.ous fact.  She almost certainly prefers to remain in the political liberal camp.  Will this be possible?  I sincerely doubt it, and perhaps she might wish to handle this topic in a future book.  One professional reviewer criticized Manji for her alleged ?angry tone.? This accusation is utterly without justification. Nothing could be further from the truth.  Manji is very thoughtful and lacking in bitterness.  She is not a vindictive and angry female liberationist seeking revenge.  I strongly recommend --The Trouble With Islam.--  This is the book that must be read if you truly are trying to understand the struggles moderate Muslims encounter in trying to reform their faith.  Is this merely their problem?  Not in the least.  Our motives are not limited to our altruistic impulses.  The nihilistic adherents of Islam eagerly strive to destroy civilization.  Our very instinct for self preservation compels us to partner with her to insure the very survival of the world.  We and our loved ones may be personally doomed if Irshad Manji fails to accomplish her daunting mission.	2004-02-20
US	52940618	R3YK3RK14CCD9	0060529148	356154174	Give Me a Break: How I Exposed Hucksters, Cheats, and Scam Artists and Became the Scourge of the Liberal Media...	Books	5	10	16	N	N	John Stossel Gives Us All A Break	John Stossel began his career as a knee jerk liberal. How liberal? The author candidly admits that he and his wife desired to raise their children as egalitarian feminists. Such views are held only by those far to the left of center. The private sector, he thought, was inherently a threat to our safety and well being. Only government can secure our rights. Fortunately, Stossel is an honest man who did not allow his ideological inclinations to distort his vision of the world. He did indeed find many examples of businesses trying to cheat the general public. However, it soon dawned upon the young consumer reporter that the government and liberal advocacy organizations also do enormous damage. The fact that one may have good intentions like Ralph Nader, a somewhat harsh Stossel critic, is not always sufficient. Unwittingly, a well meaning individual may cause enormous harm.<br />The author reveals his earlier problems with stuttering and how he stumbled into journalism. Stossel's news reporting talents evolved to the point where he began to take to task both the junk science advocates and those Republicans seeking welfare payments to support their own financial investments. He plays no favorites. President George W. Bush, in his earlier incarnation as owner of the Texas Rangers baseball team, does not avoid Stossel's intense scrutiny. Moreover, even Mother Theresa is not cut any slack! Stossel dares ask the politically incorrect question: did the convicted criminal Michael Milken do more good for the world than the famous nun? There is high price to be paid for such iconoclasm. John Stossel is sometimes shunned by his cohorts at the ABC TV headquarters in New York City. Once he was even physically attacked by someone upset with his probing questions. The author reveals how his intellectual journey led him to embrace the libertarian philosophy of Milton Friedman, Friedrich Hayek, and Thomas Sowell. He definitely has not turned into a conventional conservative. Stossel explains why he adamantly supports euthanasia, sexual liberation, and the decriminalization of mind altering drugs. Is Osama bin Ladin an inadvertent beneficiary of our misguided drug war? The author contends that this is indeed the case. My only complaint is that Stossel didn't devote more attention to this most important theme. I personally believe that the war on terrorism is being severely compromised by the anti-drug coalition. Are you interested in raising people out of poverty? If so, Stossel devotes a whole chapter on how this goal might be achieved. The same holds true for those wondering about the dangers of restricting free speech. -Give Me A Break- is highly recommended. You might also wish to provide a few copies for your relatives and friends.explains why he adamantly supports euthanasia, sexual liberation, and the decriminalization of mind altering drugs. Is Osama bin Ladin an inadvertent beneficiary of our misguided drug war? The author contends that this is indeed the case. My only complaint is that Stossel didn't devote more attention to this most important theme. I personally believe that the war on terrorism is being severely compromised by the anti-drug coalition. Are you interested in raising people out of poverty? If so, Stossel devotes a whole chapter on how this goal might be achieved. The same holds true for those wondering about the dangers of restricting free speech. -Give Me A Break- is highly recommended. You might also wish to provide a few copies for your relatives and friends.	2004-02-02
US	52940618	RNWQYSXRYT7Z9	0060529148	356154174	Give Me a Break: How I Exposed Hucksters, Cheats, and Scam Artists and Became the Scourge of the Liberal Media...	Books	5	5	11	N	N	John Stossel Gives Us All A Break	John Stossel began his career as a knee jerk liberal.  How liberal?  The author candidly admits that he and his wife desired to raise their children as egalitarian feminists.  Such views are held only by those far to the left of center.  The private sector, he thought, was inherently a threat to our safety and well being. Only government can secure our rights.  Fortunately, Stossel is an honest man who did not allow his ideological inclinations to distort his vision of the world.  He did indeed find many examples of businesses trying to cheat the general public.  However, it soon dawned upon the young consumer reporter that the government and liberal advocacy organizations also do enormous damage.  The fact that one may have good intentions like Ralph Nader, a  somewhat harsh Stossel critic, is not always sufficient.  Unwittingly, a well meaning individual may cause enormous harm.   <br />The author reveals his earlier problems with stuttering and how he stumbled into journalism.  Stossel's news reporting talents evolved to the point where he began to take to task both the junk science advocates and those Republicans seeking welfare payments to support their own financial investments.  He plays no favorites.  President George W. Bush, in his earlier incarnation as owner of the Texas Rangers baseball team, does not avoid Stossel's intense scrutiny.  Moreover, even Mother Theresa is not cut any slack!  Stossel dares ask the politically incorrect question: did the convicted criminal Michael Milken do more good for the world than the famous nun?  There is high price to be paid for such iconoclasm.  John Stossel is sometimes shunned by his cohorts at the ABC TV headquarters in New York City.  Once he was even physically attacked by someone upset with his probing questions.  The author reveals how his intellectual journey led him to embrace the libertarian philosophy of Milton Friedman, Friedrich Hayek, and Thomas Sowell.  He definitely has not turned into a conventionalconservative.  Stossel explains why he adamantly supports euthanasia, sexual liberation, and the decriminalization of mind altering drugs.  Is Osama bin Ladin an inadvertent beneficiary of our misguided drug war?  The author contends that this is indeed the case.  My only complaint is that Stossel didn't devote more attention to this most important theme.  I personally  believe that the war on terrorism is being severely compromised by the anti-drug coalition.  Are you interested in raising people out of poverty?  If so, Stossel devotes a whole chapter on how this goal might be achieved.  The same holds true for those wondering about the dangers of restricting free speech.  -Give Me A Break- is highly recommended.  You might also wish to provide a few copies for your relatives and friends.	2004-01-29
US	52940618	R1W4CPSCAEFFVX	0060520736	558684870	24 Days: How Two Wall Street Journal Reporters Uncovered the Lies that Destroyed Faith in Corporate America	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Enron�s collapse was inevitable	Wall Street Journal journalists Rebecca Smith and John R. Emshwiller did not originally see Enron's looming disaster.  They had long reported on the company's many trials and tribulations.  Yet, they had no reason to suspect that Enron's top executives, some perhaps unwittingly,  had essentially been running a criminal empire.  To be blunt, Smith and Emshwiller were merely in the right place at the right time.  This book concerns their diligent reporting after it became obvious that something was seriously wrong.  Even so, it took them awhile to realize that Enron was rapidly heading towards bankruptcy.  Enron's collapse was actually inevitable, but it wasn't obvious to those on the outside looking in.  Heck, I live in the city where Enron is headquartered---and heard only only good things concerning this previously dominant business entity.<br />The reader should pay particular attention to Andy Fastow.  He was the beginning and end of the whole fiasco.  Nothing financially questionable can occur without the full cooperation of the chief financial officer.  The other players in this drama could at least pretend that they were unaware of Enron's ongoing shenanigans.  This is indeed why the government prosecutors are having a difficult time charging others with criminal misbehavior.  The latter might plausibly be able to claim that Fastow misled them.  The authors provide ample evidence that for most the Enron situation was similar to a proverbial blindfolded person placing their hand on a elephant's leg.  They still can't tell what type of animal it is until the blindfold is removed.  Many small picture perspectives rarely add up to a vision of the big picture.<br />Smith and Emshwiller show us a cultural milieu where asking hard questions was  not encouraged.  The money was flowing and the future looked bright.  Why be a nuisance when it was usually better to look the other way?  24 Days may not be the final word on the Enron mess.  That may not be available for another five years. Nonetheless,  this book is a must buy.  These WSJ reporters provide a disturbing look at corporate malfeasance.  This may help us to prevent another Enron is the future.ble for another five years. Nonetheless,  this book is a must buy.   These WSJ reporters provide a disturbing look at corporate malfeasance.  This may help us to prevent another Enron is the future.	2003-10-13
US	52940618	R3DJENZEMY813S	0375508791	832739283	Why America Slept: The Failure to Prevent 9/11	Books	5	42	56	N	Y	The Posners add to our understanding of 9/11	Gerald Posner and his wife, Trisha, have wonderfully collaborated in revealing how our nation was surprised by the attacks of the Muslim extremists on 9/11.  Which major political party deserves most of the blame?  Sadly, both the Republicans and Democrats have much to answer for.  Even Ronald Reagan deserves a lot of criticism for appointing the grossly inept William Webster as head of the CIA.  Moreover, Reagan pulled our troops out of Beirut after a terrorist bombing murdered 241 American soldiers.  This action greatly emboldened Osama bin Ladin to carry out his future deeds of massive destruction.  And yes, the Posners do take to task the irresponsible and pacifist inclined Bill Clinton.  The former president's political guru, Dick Morris, asserts \\"In Bill Clinton's epoch, terror was primarily a criminal justice problem which must not be allowed to get in the way of the `real' foreign policy issues.\\" The first World Trade Center attack in 1993 shockingly barely got any attention from the Clinton White House. The Posners also mention the mind boggling damage caused by liberal Democrat congressman Barney Frank (and implicitly the American Civil Liberties Union) who \\"led a  successful effort to amend the Immigration and Nationality Act so that membership in a terrorist group was no longer sufficient to deny a visa.\\"  I strongly contend that a whole chapter should have been devoted to this particular subject.  The ACLU and its fellow travelers may have the best intentions---but the results of their efforts often leave a lot to be desired. After all, the United States Constitution is not a suicide pact!<br />The Posners legitimately blast the CIA and FBI for their childish bureaucratic confrontations.  Those supposedly defending our lives and freedoms are often too distracted in fighting each other. Is Saudi Arabia truly a friend?  Did our European allies always fully cooperate with us?  The Posners do not avoid these disturbing questions. In regards to the Saudi royal family, a number of them might remind you of Thomas Wolfe's 1971 \\"Radical Chic & Mau-Mauing the Flak Catchers.\\"  One is cynically hard pressed to believe that such wealthy and extravagant folks really desire to live in a backward and impoverished cultural milieu.  Do they merely desire to loosely associate with those more adventuresome and violent than themselves?  The evidence provided by the Posners suggest that this may be so.<br />Gerald and Trisha Posner are once again to be congratulated for this fine work.  You also may wish to read  the highly recommended Daniel Pipes' \\"Militant Islam Reaches America\\"  and Steven Emerson's \\"American Jihad: The Terrorists Living Among Us.\\"  The radical Muslim threat is not going away anytime in the near future.  Thus, it behooves us to increase our knowledge concerning our unrelenting and vicious foes.al family, a number of them might remind you of Thomas Wolfe's 1971 \\"Radical Chic & Mau-Mauing the Flak Catchers.\\"  One is cynically hard pressed to believe that such wealthy and extravagant folks really desire to live in a backward and impoverished cultural milieu.  Do they merely desire to loosely associate with those more adventuresome and violent than themselves?  The evidence provided by the Posners suggest that this may be so. <br />Gerald and Trisha Posner are once again to be congratulated for this fine work.  You also may wish to read  the highly recommended Daniel Pipes' \\"Militant Islam Reaches America\\"  and Steven Emerson's \\"American Jihad: The Terrorists Living Among Us.\\"  The radical Muslim threat is not going away anytime in the near future.  Thus, it behooves us to increase our knowledge concerning our unrelenting and vicious foes.	2003-09-26
US	52940618	R3LBDW3DGFN5M9	0805063897	671016982	Nickel and Dimed: On (Not) Getting By in America	Books	5	13	29	N	Y	The poor are essentially making it in America	The well educated and affluent Barbara Ehrenreich joined the workforce of the moderately poor.  She labored for the purpose of writing this book as a waitress, housecleaner, a low level health care provider, and even a Wal-Mart sales associate.  Ehrenreich is politically far to the left of center and perhaps hoped to present an America that is cruel and ruthless towards its economically disadvantaged.  She, however, ironically makes an excellent case that while these workers struggle to make ends meet---they still can get enough to eat and prepare for better future employment opportunities.  The author stresses the difficultly of living alone on a $6-7 per hour job.  She overlooks the fact that many of these people share their quarters with others of similar circumstance.  I suspect that Ms. Ehrenreich did likewise during her college years.  Also, how many middle class families could easily survive if the two top bread winners lived in separate quarters?<br />Are lower skilled and high turnover employees often looked down upon and treated as second best citizens?  The answer is unfortunately yes and Nickel and Dimed reminds us that our egalitarian sentiments dont always survive well when tested in the real world.  The author most assuredly would like the government to take a more active role in the lives of these people.  Ms. Ehrenreich fails to comprehend that the poor will best improve their lot in life if compelled to compete in the private sector.  For instance, she mentions working with a nineteen year old Czech immigrant dishwasher.  I would bet a few dollars that this young man is no longer engaged in such menial labor.  A viable society cannot afford to unwittingly encourage perpetual dependency. Those at the bottom have to start somewhere, and these bottom rung jobs normally serve to help one to pull themselves up by their own proverbial bootstraps.<br />Is the author arrogant and condescending toward the subjects of her journalistic study?  I dont find this to be the case at all.  It is virtually impossible not to ruffle feathers with this sort of book.  Barbara Ehrenreich is damned if she mentions her actual privilege lifestyle, and even more damned if she doesn't.  Nonetheless, I did feel uncomfortable with her tolerance of the smoking habits of some of these people.  Would she do the same with those of her own social set?  I recommend this book as an overall fair and insightful look at those many of us will rarely interact with on an intimate level.  Ehrenreich leaves much to be desired as a labor policy theorist, but deserves praise as an astute social observer. I would also strongly advise the reader to seek out Mickey Kaus brilliant book, The End of Equality. The latter work philosophically compliments her journalistic endeavor.ont find this to be the case at all.  It is virtually impossible not to ruffle feathers with this sort of book.  Barbara Ehrenreich is damned if she mentions her actual privilege lifestyle, and even more damned if she doesn't.  Nonetheless, I did feel uncomfortable with her tolerance of the smoking habits of some of these people.  Would she do the same with those of her own social set?  I recommend this book as an overall fair and insightful look at those many of us will rarely interact with on an intimate level.  Ehrenreich leaves much to be desired as a labor policy theorist, but deserves praise as an astute social observer. I would also strongly advise the reader to seek out Mickey Kaus brilliant book, The End of Equality. The latter work philosophically compliments her journalistic endeavor.	2003-06-12
US	52940618	R2TIK45L8A8RVY	1576751678	578761329	The Ultimate Competitive Advantage: Secrets of Continually Developing a More Profitable Business Model	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Never Ending Business Development is a Must	Donald Mitchell and Carol Coles present a  thorough argument that all companies, large and small, are compelled to improve upon their current business model.  If it works, don't fix it, is not a viable mindset in a age where competitive challenges are always right around the corner.  The major idea behind this superb book \\"is that business model obsolescence is the major unperceived opportunity and threat to all businesses now.\\"  Human beings are inclined to play it safe and take few risks.  What was considered prudent behavior a few generations ago will likely doom one to irrelevance in a future shock environment.  Many companies are regretfully similar to the frog who is unaware that he is slowly being boiled alive.  If you did not improve your business model in the last five years---then almost certainly you have missed out on some golden opportunities.<br />Mitchell and Coles aptly deal with issues concerning pricing a company's products and services.  How do business leaders distinguish between winning and losing business models?  What role does the low level employee  play in this regard?  \\"What is the stupidest thing our company does that reduces the purchase and consumption of our offerings?\\" is a question best not left unanswered.  Try pretending \\"for several hours that you are a specific person who doesn't buy from your company (or even your customer's customer)\\" is also not advice which should be ignored.  Ecolab, Iron Mountain, Business Objects and Paychex are among the companies cited that refuse to be seduced by complacency.  Even a humble barber who cut the hair of many of Harvard University's leading teachers and students is a quintessential example of a business owner who never took anything for granted.<br />I have already spent countless hours reading \\"The Ultimate Competitive Advantage.\\"  Alas, there are still more gems of wisdom that I've yet to internalize.  This book will continue to enrich my understanding of business models long into the distant future.  I'm sure that you also will find it of great value.e distant future.  I'm sure that you also will find it of great value.	2003-05-28
US	52940618	R2TFHUAVMX9M0G	0743228340	692325971	No Crueler Tyrannies: Accusation, False Witness, and Other Terrors of Our Times (Wall Street Journal Book)	Books	5	96	101	N	N	The horror of our modern day Salem witch trials	The very hint of being a child molester can destroy the life of even the most virtuous among us. Dorothy Rabinowitz has witnessed first hand the persecution and imprisonment of those who were almost certainly wrongly convicted of this vile crime. Perhaps not since the Salem witch trials has such a miscarriage of justice occurred within the United States. These unfortunate victims have been arrested, tried, and convicted, on evidence so weak that it defies common sense. A Saturday Night Live and Monty Python comedy skit could easily be created out of these court cases. A cynic is indeed tempted to burst out laughing at the utter madness of it all. Isn't our system of justice premised upon the concept that one's guilt must be proven beyond a reasonable doubt? If so, how does a rational adult take seriously a child's claim that a knife had been jammed into her rectum when there wasn't even the slightest bit of physical evidence to support the charge? Pseudo educated psychologists were able to present junk science theories to juries that should have never been allowed into the courtroom. Heck, in most cases, the initial suspicions concerning the suspects should have been dismissed by the police after no more than a few hours investigative work. The accused were, however, intractably caught in a Catch 22 predicament. \\"The rule of thumb guiding child interviewers in these cases was a simple one,\\" declares Rabinowitz, \\"if children said they had been molested, they were telling the truth; those who denied they had been abused were not telling the truth and were described as `not ready to disclose...'\\" The suspects were obviously doomed the very first moment when their nightmare began.<br />The author strongly suggests that the citizens of Massachusetts should feel a particular sense of shame. The prosecutors and governors of this once formally great State have thoroughly disgraced themselves. Gerald Amirault currently remains in prison due to their treachery and cowardliness. Rabinowitz astutely asserts that there is no crueler tyranny than to be unfairly jailed by the government which is suppose to protect your rights. This book will enrage those possessing even the slightest bit of moral decency. It should then prompt you to advocate for Mr. Amirault's freedom---and make sure that no other American citizen again spends time incarcerated for a crime they never committed. Lastly, we should demand our universities explain why such shabbily trained mental health processionals obtained credentials from their institutions.s. Rabinowitz astutely asserts that there is no crueler tyranny than to be unfairly jailed by the government which is suppose to protect your rights. This book will enrage those possessing even the slightest bit of moral decency. It should then prompt you to advocate for Mr. Amirault's freedom---and make sure that no other American citizen again spends time incarcerated for a crime they never committed. Lastly, we should demand our universities explain why such shabbily trained mental health processionals obtained credentials from their institutions.	2003-04-23
US	52940618	R1SJYD6MFRCF4E	0679642811	448968193	The Crisis of Islam: Holy War and Unholy Terror	Books	5	48	78	N	N	The Totalitarian Islamists are Suicidal Nihilists	Bernard Lewis once again earns our unhesitating respect and adulation.  It is an outright scandal that this great scholar is not a household name.  He may very well be the most important voice in the early part of the 21st Century. This brilliant work expands upon his earlier book, \\"What Went Wrong.\\"  Lewis is polite but blunt: the Muslim world has not undergone a religious and cultural reformation similar to that experienced by Christians and Jews.  Some 400-500 years ago, the Islamic leaders rejected scientific and intellectual progress.  The inevitable result is that many Muslims today understandably possess an inferiority complex.  They are existentially bitter and envious concerning the preeminent dominance of the West.  The sons of Mohammed were not suppose to be second raters and mired in poverty.  Sadly, anti-intellectualism is so rampant that the Islamic countries are infamous for not purchasing books.  The Muslim elite usually must travel to the West to obtain a good education.  Women are second class citizens often doomed to remain functionally illiterate and politically marginalized. Logical consistency is not a perceived virtue. They despise our modern societies while taking full advantage of our cell phones and vastly superior weapon systems.<br />Professor Lewis suggests that German intellectuals have much to do with converting the Muslims over to the virus of anti-Americanism.  The United States is allegedly morally weak and pleasure seeking according to Martin Heiddeger, Oswald Spengler, and others discombobulated by our dynamism and willingness to take risks.  How hated are we?  The Islamists mostly ignore the failings of other Western countries and do not give us credit even when Americans, for instance, rescue their Muslim brothers and sisters in the Balkans. The Russians, after all, were initially barely taken to task for invading Afghanistan. He also contends that anti-Semitism became rampant in the Middle East due to the pernicious influences of the Nazis.  The oil wealth of the Saudi government has funded the radicalism of the Wahhabi faction of Islamic extremism.  One should try imagining, asserts Lewis,  the Texas political structure lavishly funding the efforts of the Ku Klux Klan.  Is there any hope that the more numerous and moderate Muslims will be able to marginalize their militant counterparts?  What hope is there that the extremists can be prevented from successfully furthering their nihilistic aims? You absolutely must read this book.  I am not indulging in even a bit of hyperbole to declare that your very life and those of your loved ones may depend on it.  The Islamic nihilists are not going to disappear anytime in the near future.  We need to better understand our enemy who will not rest until this planet is utterly destroyed.  Indeed, suicide is their ultimate goal! Bernard Lewis is arguably our foremost guiding light during these difficult times. Lastly, it will also behoove you to immediately read Eric Hoffer's seminal classic, The True Believer. The latter readily compliments Lewis' own insights.nces of the Nazis.  The oil wealth of the Saudi government has funded the radicalism of the Wahhabi faction of Islamic extremism.  One should try imagining, asserts Lewis,  the Texas political structure lavishly funding the efforts of the Ku Klux Klan.   Is there any hope that the more numerous and moderate Muslims will be able to marginalize their militant counterparts?  What hope is there that the extremists can be prevented from successfully furthering their nihilistic aims? You absolutely must read this book.  I am not indulging in even a bit of hyperbole to declare that your very life and those of your loved ones may depend on it.   The Islamic nihilists are not going to disappear anytime in the near future.   We need to better understand our enemy who will not rest until this planet is utterly destroyed.  Indeed, suicide is their ultimate goal! Bernard Lewis is arguably our foremost guiding light during these difficult times. Lastly, it will also behoove you to immediately read Eric Hoffer's seminal classic, The True Believer. The latter readily compliments Lewis' own insights.	2003-04-01
US	52940618	R1GMWY1XJWQ4V9	0743448782	407343179	Honor Lost: Love and Death in Modern-Day Jordan	Books	5	8	12	N	N	Jordanian males often treat their women abominably	Norma Khouri informs us about the hostility toward women in the Arab Muslim world.  She was born and raised in Jordan, a country where its rather benevolent and sophisticated leaders, Prince Abdullah and Princess Rania,  do not dare to truly oppose the totalitarian Islamic mullahs.  At best, the royal family limits its actions to saying a few words in protest.  Women are treated worse than dirt.  An overwhelming number of Jordanian men make the most outrageous American male chauvinist pig seem like a raving progressive feminist by comparison.  These guys even feel a cultural obligation to hit their own mothers and sisters.  The so-called offense may be as minor as the woman being a little late in preparing dinner.  Norma is a Catholic, but the men in her family do not hesitate to abuse their women.  The radical Muslim zeitgeist dominates the land---and even the police and court system refuse to protect the female citizens living under Jordan's perverse legal system.<br />Dalia is Norma's best friend since childhood.  She is a Muslim who wishes to become educated and live her own life.  Michael is both a Catholic and a foreigner, and their love must be hidden from her family.  Unfortunately, the father learns of the romance and orders Dalia's brother to murder her.  He does so boldly knowing full well that the Muslim clerical judges will barely slap his wrist.  An \\"honor killing\\" is classified as a mere misdemeanor.  Is this all done behind closed doors?  Shockingly, the Jordanian government even keeps meticulous records concerning this particular practice. The reader's blood pressure and rage will increase the further along they get into this book.  You should soon realize that the social milieu of Jordan and the other Arab countries in this region must be destabilized.  The status quo has to change if women are to ever to be justly treated.  A cynic once remarked that the feminists of the Western World can either be avid feminists, or adherers to the tenets of political correctness---but they can't be both at the same time!  They can no longer pretend to look the other way.  The brutal fact is that some cultures are indeed better than others. Reactionary and despicable cultures deserve to be unhesitatingly condemned. The author has placed her own life in jeopardy by writing this hauntingly truthful book.  We should not merely read Norma Khouri's \\"Honor Lost,\\" but also advocate for the rapid elimination of the militant Islam.  The more moderate Muslims must be encouraged to wrest control from these monsters.  Is this really our problem?  The answer is an unhesitating yes.  The same people who slaughtered our racially and ethnically diverse citizens on 9/11 look kindly on the ancient practice of honor killing.  Their ultimate goal is world domination.  It is a mistake to believe that they desire to control only the regions of their indigenous homelands.  The women of Western Civilization should beware.  Dalia's murder is a warning to them.  They could be next.olitical correctness---but they can't be both at the same time!  They can no longer pretend to look the other way.  The brutal fact is that some cultures are indeed better than others. Reactionary and despicable cultures deserve to be unhesitatingly condemned. The author has placed her own life in jeopardy by writing this hauntingly truthful book.  We should not merely read Norma Khouri's \\"Honor Lost,\\" but also advocate for the rapid elimination of the militant Islam.  The more moderate Muslims must be encouraged to wrest control from these monsters.  Is this really our problem?  The answer is an unhesitating yes.  The same people who slaughtered our racially and ethnically diverse citizens on 9/11 look kindly on the ancient practice of honor killing.  Their ultimate goal is world domination.   It is a mistake to believe that they desire to control only the regions of their indigenous homelands.  The women of Western Civilization should beware.  Dalia's murder is a warning to them.  They could be next.	2003-03-16
US	52940618	R13LCS16CG4G1F	1400040930	575332371	Of Paradise and Power: America and Europe in the New World Order	Books	5	8	21	N	N	The old Europeans are no longer our true allies	Robert Kagan brilliantly pulls no punches and bluntly informs us that the older European nations do not wish us well. Are they our per se enemies? Not exactly, but they are definitely not our real friends. The old Europeans are intimidated by our overwhelming wealth and power resulting in feelings of cultural inferiority. The deadly sin of jealously motivates their actions when they interact with us. Sadly, it appears that they are even willing to put themselves into harm's way merely to spite the United States. We have provided them with much of their military protection and regretfully no good deed goes unpunished. America is more than willing to clearly assess dangerous situations and boldly take action to remove the threat. Our major political philosophers reject the namby-pamby make believe vision of Immanuel Kant and instead opt for the more realistic insights of Thomas Hobbes. These Europeans, especially the French, prefer to appease aggressors. Never ending dialogue with a tyrant is deemed of value even when common sense dictates that the fiend will violate any agreement at the first available opportunity. This is how the old Europeans responded to Adolph Hitler in the 1930s, and nothing has significantly changed concerning the current threat of the totalitarian Muslims. Only a few years ago, their own elected politicians failed miserably to resolve the Balkans horror. It was primarily America's military might that halted the slaughter. The author might be reluctant to describe these folks as wimps, but alas I have no such hesitation. To be blunt, the old Europeans have also unsurprisingly become adherents to the belief system of utopian Socialism. This debilitating mindset has eviscerated their ability to work hard and behave like grown ups.<br />We are almost certainly going to war against Iraq. The old Europeans have basically told President George W. Bush to take a hike. It is best that Americans clearly understand the full extent of the moral and intellectual rot infecting these nations that are now mere shadows of their former greatness. Robert Kagan is to be congratulated for a job well done. This essay is a masterpiece deserving your immediate attention. You probably cannot justify reading any other book until thoroughly digesting \\"Of Paradise and Power.\\"ectual rot infecting these nations that are now mere shadows of their former greatness. Robert Kagan is to be congratulated for a job well done. This essay is a masterpiece deserving your immediate attention. You probably cannot justify reading any other book until thoroughly digesting \\"Of Paradise and Power.\\"	2003-03-12
US	52940618	R11WWM54ET8SRT	0312280858	498416182	The Rule of Lawyers: How the New Litigation Elite Threatens America's Rule of Law	Books	5	11	18	N	N	Trial Lawyers versus the Democratic Process	American Attorneys sometimes wonder why the general public holds then in such low esteem.  Are they being unfairly perceived as legal charlatans contemptuous of all that is good and decent?  The answer, at least in regards to trial lawyers, is an adamant no according to \\"The Rule of Lawyers.\\"  Moreover, Walter Olsen raises the alarm that numerous members of this particular profession threaten our democratic institutions.  They are using our precious legal system to blackmail targeted companies.  If the unlucky business entity dares fight back, points out the author, it may ultimately be forced to declare bankruptcy.  The cost of litigation itself might be a death sentence for even a financially sound company. A gang of attorneys filing in different courts against the same company is analogous to piranhas feasting on a virtually defenseless large animal.  The poor creature cannot possibly survive such a multifaceted attack. Sadly, one need not be an attorney with a high batting average to become extremely wealthy. Trial lawyers generally throw a lot of stuff at the proverbial fan hoping that merely one piece sticks. A judge and jury in a particular district may not go along with their shenanigans.  This, regretfully, does not stop these relentless and greedy legal hooligans. They have mastered the art of filing law suits until eventually obtaining the final desired results.  Some courts lack the integrity and backbone to oppose these white collared thugs.  This is especially true for those judges requiring financial contributions for the next election.  Many morally challenged trial lawyers have partnered with politicians (usually Democrats) to win in the courts what is impossible to achieve at the ballot box.  For instance, the voters mostly reject gun control proposals.  But a gun manufacturer facing insolvency may be forced to capitulate to the wishes of these left wing attorneys.<br />We rightfully should have little sympathy for businesses that lie and break the law to bolster their bottom line.  Olsen argues, though, it is a mistake to conclude that the end justifies the means.  Our nation is premised upon the rule of law and constitutional protections.  We are all endangered when trial lawyers are able to abuse the system and intimidate their chosen victims.  I whole heartedly recommend that you give serious consideration to Walter Olsen's cogent and very convincing arguments.  Please note that I earlier criticized the Democrats.  In all fairness, I am obligated not to ignore the vices of the Grand Old Party. There is plenty of blame to go around. Thus, I also encourage you to view the brilliant 1999 movie \\"The Insider\\" starring Al Pacino and Russell Crowe concerning the disgraceful behavior of the tobacco executives. Am I contradicting myself?  Not in the least.  There is indeed such a thing as corporate malfeasance that must be taken to task. Nonetheless, the constitution must not be jeopardized in our zeal to address these legitimate issues. It's a question of reaching a proper balance. You might also wish to send a copy of \\"The Rule of Lawyers\\" to some of your elected officials.he law to bolster their bottom line.  Olsen argues, though, it is a mistake to conclude that the end justifies the means.  Our nation is premised upon the rule of law and constitutional protections.  We are all endangered when trial lawyers are able to abuse the system and intimidate their chosen victims.  I whole heartedly recommend that you give serious consideration to Walter Olsen's cogent and very convincing arguments.  Please note that I earlier criticized the Democrats.  In all fairness, I am obligated not to ignore the vices of the Grand Old Party. There is plenty of blame to go around. Thus, I also encourage you to view the brilliant 1999 movie \\"The Insider\\" starring Al Pacino and Russell Crowe concerning the disgraceful behavior of the tobacco executives. Am I contradicting myself?  Not in the least.  There is indeed such a thing as corporate malfeasance that must be taken to task. Nonetheless, the constitution must not be jeopardized in our zeal to address these legitimate issues. It's a question of reaching a proper balance. You might also wish to send a copy of \\"The Rule of Lawyers\\" to some of your elected officials.	2003-02-25
US	52940618	RIBAKG3DP7KRV	0226493644	411166366	More Guns, Less Crime: Understanding Crime and Gun-Control Laws	Books	5	16	36	N	N	Lott�s work still stands up to most severe criticism	[...]Liberal dogmatists lack common sense when the subject turns to guns of any sort.  They legitimately point out the accidents and criminal actions resulting from their misuse. But Lott wonders why they are blinded to the obvious benefits of firearms.  \\"Unfortunately, our legal system,\\" adds the author, \\"cannot provide people with all the protection that they desire, and yet individuals are often prevented from defending themselves.\\" Sometimes citizens are even charged with a felony for protecting themselves with a gun!  Sadly, these laws usually only prevent law abiding folks from obtaining a fire arm.  The criminal class could care less if such a law is on the books. Convicted mafia thug, Sammy \\"the Bull\\" Gravano laughs at gun control.  \\"It's the best thing you can do for crooks and gangsters.\\" The media generally gives the benefit of the doubt to gun control groups, and Lott is astonished by their gullibility. More often than not, the media take their word at face value.  Those on the other side of the issue, needless to add, are given the third degree. Journalists alert the general public concerning the bad things done with guns, but ignore the incidents when lives are saved.  Lott finds it ironic that gun control advocates don't realize that legal restrictions hinder the ability of minorities to defend their lives and property.  Guns are of far more importance in poorer neighborhoods than those where affluent Liberals reside.  Also, what about women? Don't these white wine and brie cheese party goers have any concern for the physically weaker sex who is more vulnerable to attack?  John Lott will have to rehabilitate his reputation.  Nonetheless, \\"More Guns, Less Crime\\" remains an fairly accurate and substantial contribution to this debate that is not going away anytime in the near future.  I see no reason not to continue giving it a very strong endorsement.	2003-02-09
US	52940618	R271IS154SB4RR	0465041213	670404372	Made in Texas: George W. Bush and the Southern Takeover of American Politics	Books	4	18	36	N	N	Michael Lind�s central theme is not substantiated	I thorough enjoyed Michael Lind's efforts pertaining to the political and cultural history of Texas.  This relatively short book is perhaps the best that I've seen in this regard.  You will learn much about Texas' rapidly disappearing racism and anti-intellectualism which should not be ignored.  The author's attempt, however,  to describe the thinking of the Bush administration as a result of Texas' reactionary past leaves much to be desired.  Did the publisher encourage Lind to do so to increase sales?  If nothing else, he overlooks the demographic changes that have taken place in the last quarter century.  Many Texas Republicans like myself were born and raised in an entirely different part of the country.  Our background is often more liberal and cosmopolitan.  The younger indigenous Texans care little about preserving the status quo of Neanderthal bigotry.  President Bush, after all, is himself the uncle of a number of Hispanic children.  Also, Lind fails to place sufficient emphasis on the neo-conservative intellectuals who he concedes greatly influence the President.  Bush may be an evangelical Christian, but a high number of neo-cons are rather secular in the tradition of Leo Strauss.  They are primarily non ideological intellectuals who shun utopian schemes, and instead prefer pragmatic responses to the issues of the day.  Lind may disagree with their overall views on the Middle East, the environment, and economic policy, but he is not justified in essentially calling them a bunch of wild eyed crazies.  Moreover, Lind seemingly fails to realize that George W. Bush does a vastly superior job marginalizing the radical right-wing lunatics than do the Democrat leaders in controlling the extremists of the left-wing variety.<br />Is there a possibility that Michael Lind is quickly becoming the Pat Buchanan of the neo-Liberals?  \\"Like present-day Israel,\\" adds the author,\\"Texas before the Civil Rights Revolution was a Herrenvolk (master race) democracy, combining populism within the majority ethnic nation with the state-enforced subordination of ethnic minorities.\\"  This sentence is most disturbing.  Is he really accusing Israel of being a racist state?  Lind is compelled to further explain himself.  The author is fairly bright and insightful.  I have no problem recommending the work he coauthored with Ted Halstead, The Radical Center: The Future of American Politics.  There is much food for thought offered in this provocative study.  Alas, my guess is that Lind may have been seduced by the favorable attention he receives from the Liberal establishment.  He is often pointed out as their token Republican representative at their white wine and brie cheese get-togethers.  Is it possible that Michael Lind might soon grow out of this phase?  We can only hope so for the author is still quite young and will most assuredly not disappear anytime in the near future.ng populism within the majority ethnic nation with the state-enforced subordination of ethnic minorities.\\"  This sentence is most disturbing.  Is he really accusing Israel of being a racist state?  Lind is compelled to further explain himself.  The author is fairly bright and insightful.  I have no problem recommending the work he coauthored with Ted Halstead, The Radical Center: The Future of American Politics.  There is much food for thought offered in this provocative study.  Alas, my guess is that Lind may have been seduced by the favorable attention he receives from the Liberal establishment.  He is often pointed out as their token Republican representative at their white wine and brie cheese get-togethers.  Is it possible that Michael Lind might soon grow out of this phase?  We can only hope so for the author is still quite young and will most assuredly not disappear anytime in the near future.	2003-01-25
US	52940618	R1020CG8CAPHBE	0375500626	918586268	Motown: Music, Money, Sex, and Power	Books	5	5	9	N	N	Gerald Posner has written the definitive work on Motown	An earlier community reviewer accused Gerald Posner of sloppy scholarship regarding his study of the Kennedy assassination in \\"Case Closed: Lee Harvey Oswald and the Assassination of JFK.\\"  His opinion is not at all shared by the numerous scholars who praise the author for his meticulous research and objectively weighing of the evidence.  Posner is on a first name basis with a high number of the greatest historians living today.  He is far more than a mere journalist.  Most assuredly,  Posner has written the definitive book on the Motown phenomenon.  Any mistakes, which are normal in a work of this kind, will be far and few between.  Posner pulls no punches about the huge price both the executives and entertainers of this recording giant paid for putting out such beautiful music.  The Motown sound is greatly responsible for bringing together the races during the Civil Rights era of the 1960s.  Never before did so many white teenagers listen to the  offerings of Afro-American musical artists.  Their racial attitudes dramatically changed for the better.  Barry Gordy comes across as a genius who understood what the public wanted, and how best to respond to that need.  The leader generally sets the tone for everybody else and he failed miserably to set a good example. Gordy is no saint and the record tycoon's own irresponsible actions encouraged similar misbehavior by those around him.  Illegal drug use, widespread alcohol abuse, and promiscuous sex became the norm to the point where one doubts if a person adhering to conventional values could have even survived a week in such a warped social milieu.  The Motown people are highly talented, but few are to be envied or looked upon as role models.  It is no coincidence that some of them died an early death.<br />The viewing of laws and sausage being made is not for the faint of heart.  Do we also really need to know that entertainers are often immature and reckless?  Isn't it preferable to leave some stones unturned?  Has Gerald Posner told us more than we should want to know concerning the Motown empire?  I don't accept this line of argumentation.  Posner stops short of indulging in prurient scandal mongering.  He knows where to draw the line.  Motown still plays an important role in the cultural life of our nation.  We therefore have a legitimate reason to learn more about this influential organization's history.  Gerald Posner's \\"Motown: Money, Power, Sex, and Music\\" is also highly recommended for anyone contemplating a show business career.  They might be able to learn how to avoid similar personal heartbreak and degradation.?  Has Gerald Posner told us more than we should want to know concerning the Motown empire?  I don't accept this line of argumentation.  Posner stops short of indulging in prurient scandal mongering.  He knows where to draw the line.   Motown still plays an important role in the cultural life of our nation.   We therefore have a legitimate reason to learn more about this influential organization's history.   Gerald Posner's \\"Motown: Money, Power, Sex, and Music\\" is also highly recommended for anyone contemplating a show business career.  They might be able to learn how to avoid similar personal heartbreak and degradation.	2003-01-14
US	52940618	R3PO0M9IQ5YIF6	1893224740	411398373	When You Ride Alone You Ride with Bin Laden: What the Government Should Be Telling Us to Help Fight the War on Terrorism	Books	5	27	35	N	N	The Title of this Book is Right on Target	We can only hope that the tile \\"When You Ride Alone You Ride with Bin Laden\\" becomes famous.  It perfectly reminds us in a pithy and most accurate manner how Osama bin Ladin obtains most of his funding.  Bill Maher's well thought out opinions should not be simply dismissed as that of someone representing the left wing of the political spectrum.  Indeed, the man is not always kind to his fellow Liberals.  So much so, that I wonder how the author got radical Leftist Michael Moore to endorse this book.  How can they even be on pleasant speaking terms?  I am a neo-Conservative who is appalled by the indifference of those unwilling to think seriously about the fuel efficiency of the vehicles they drive.  Our enemies are indeed greatly helped every time we foolishly waste oil products.  Since when did Americans feel it unnecessary to make sacrifices during wartime?  And yes, where is the sense of community spirit that should be the norm in times such as these?  Maher is also right to criticize our nation's ludicrous \\"war on drugs\\" and question the politically correct premises of our airport security officials who hesitate to search those who are more likely to commit terrorist acts.<br />Sadly, however, Bill Maher does not give due respect to great scholars like Bernard Lewis. He wishes to explore the reasons why our enemies hate us, but this is virtually impossible unless one reads Lewis' perspicacious \\"What Went Wrong.\\"  The blame America first crowd totally misunderstands the true reasons motivating the terrorists.  These Muslim fascists are not particularly enraged because of any past actions of the United States government.  Heck, they are the last people desiring to form a secular and democratic cultural milieu. They are instead embittered that the Islamic world has lost its preeminence in the arts,  sciences, and political power.  In other words, they are on the losing side of history.  The very existence of a successfully Jewish governed Israel demolishes their bigoted feelings of racial and theological superiority. Maher has written a thought provoking work that should not be ignored.  You should pick up a copy.  I also hope he returns to TV in the very near future.ir bigoted feelings of racial and theological superiority. Maher has written a thought provoking work that should not be ignored.  You should pick up a copy.   I also hope he returns to TV in the very near future.	2003-01-07
US	52940618	R2R1LQ8XQ7SHUO	0312294875	653029307	Subversive Southerner: Anne Braden and the Struggle for Racial Justice in the Cold War South	Books	5	9	16	N	N	Anne Braden: A True American Hero	Anne Braden courageously opposed the Dixie segregationist establishment.  She was born Anne McCarty in 1924 in \\"Louisville where white folks lived.\\"  Her earlier concerns were conventional and non threatening to the social mores of her Jim Crow society.  Anne mostly worried about being attractive to boys during her high school years and was even willing to play dumb so as not to alienate them.  She underwent a dramatic change in her early adult years while attending college and earning a living as a journalist.  The Southern newspapers of that era barely considered a murdered black person worthy of mention.  Blacks could fight and die in our wars, but were refused entrance to the voting booth.  White criminals were afforded more respect than virtuous and law abiding Afro-Americans.  The usual definition of a liberal Southern politician was someone who dared speak out against lynching while remaining firmly loyal to the principle of segregation.  Anne ultimately could not make peace with the prevailing zeitgeist.  She marries Carl Braden, a man named after Karl Marx. The Bradens soon partner with such luminaries like James Dombrowski, Bob Zellner and Martin Luther King.  The latter remarked upon her dedication in his famous \\"Letter From a Birmingham Jail.\\"  Heroic self sacrifice and the constant risk of violence became an everyday reality.  The odds were probably no better than fifty-fifty that the Bradens could escape being murdered.<br /><br />What does the Cold War have to with Anne Braden?  Why did the author choose the title \\"Subversive Southerner?\\"  Catherine Fosl points out the insane eagerness of the segregationists to brand those advocating civil rights as traitors to the United States.  In their peculiar way of looking at the world, combatting Jim Crow was the same thing as aligning oneself with our nation's enemies. The Bradens, however, did flirt with Communism and this made it easier for their foes to justify harassing them.  A number of prosecutors seeking political power relished the opportunity to put them behind bars for alleged acts of sedition.  Anne's relationship with avowed Communists extends to the point where the well known radical Angela Davis even writes the forward for this book.  Should we therefore condemn her?  Not in the least.  Fosl presents a persuasively well put together argument that Anne Braden deserves to be cut some slack.  There is no evidence whatsoever hinting that the still living Ms. Braden ever adhered to any orthodox interpretation of Communist doctrine.  She seems naively oblivious to the logical consequences of these horrifying set of beliefs.  Sadly, mainstream political conservatives did virtually nothing to combat racism in the Old South.  Anne Braden was therefore compelled to cooperate with those willing to fight along side of her.  She and her late husband were primarily activists and not armchair philosophers.  One also does not have to agree with all of Anne Braden's more recent political proposals.  Some of these efforts might indeed leave something to be desired.  That is beside the point.  Ms. Braden definitely has done far more good than inadvertent harm. Catherine Fosl is to be congratulated for making sure that Americans don't overlook her enormous accomplishments.  It would be shameful not to honor Anne Braden while she is still alive.  I strongly urge you to read this superb biography of one of our greatest American heroes.ing political power relished the opportunity to put them behind bars for alleged acts of sedition.  Anne's relationship with avowed Communists extends to the point where the well known radical Angela Davis even writes the forward for this book.  Should we therefore condemn her?  Not in the least.  Fosl presents a persuasively well put together argument that Anne Braden deserves to be cut some slack.  There is no evidence whatsoever hinting that the still living Ms. Braden ever adhered to any orthodox interpretation of Communist doctrine.  She seems naively oblivious to the logical consequences of these horrifying set of beliefs.  Sadly, mainstream political conservatives did virtually nothing to combat racism in the Old South.  Anne Braden was therefore compelled to cooperate with those willing to fight along side of her.  She and her late husband were primarily activists and not armchair philosophers.  One also does not have to agree with all of Anne Braden's more recent political proposals.  Some of these efforts might indeed leave something to be desired.  That is beside the point.  Ms. Braden definitely has done far more good than inadvertent harm. Catherine Fosl is to be congratulated for making sure that Americans don't overlook her enormous accomplishments.  It would be shameful not to honor Anne Braden while she is still alive.  I strongly urge you to read this superb biography of one of our greatest American heroes.	2002-12-26
US	52940618	R2O7MKOAQ4NGKO	0786710934	44968230	Anatomy of Greed: The Unshredded Truth from an Enron Insider	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Enron�s Cultural Milieu Shunned Unpleasant Truths	Brian Cruver was a relatively minor figure employed by Enron less than a year before its bankruptcy.  In many respects, \\"Anatomy of Greed\\" is no more than a full length feature article that got published as a hardback. Still,  it serves a purpose by showing us that many lower level employees were well aware that Enron was a disaster waiting to happen.  Cruver may wish to emphasis the duplicity and questionable ethics of Enron's top brass.  He, however, perhaps unintentionally shows that there was plenty of blame to go around.  Rarely did anyone dare to jeopardize their ride on the gravy train even when sensing a crash was imminent.  Lying to oneself--and occasionally to others--was an easier price to pay.<br />None of the people Cruver writes about are mentally challenged [people].  Virtually all have earned advanced degrees and attended elite universities.  The warning signs were obvious for those who preferred reality over fantasy. Nevertheless, greed has a way of turning extremely bright people into blundering fools. Ambitious projects, Cruver points out,  continued to be funded long after ample evidence indicated that they should be shut down.  The Enron social milieu encouraged behavior similar to a casino gambler who risks his life savings hoping to get incredibly lucky.  Enron publicly advocated high moral standards.  In actual practice,  these rules were cynically ignored.  Hard work and talent were not enough to keep one employed.  Cruver quotes the mysterious Mr. Blue \\"the rule was always no bad news.\\"  The latter requirement was nonnegotiable and took priority over everything else.  Thinking clearly and objectively would only place you into harm's way.  The immediate goal of higher stock prices and bonuses were all that mattered.  Let somebody else worry about tomorrow.  Should you go out of your way to read \\"Anatomy of Greed?\\"  The answer is yes if you are searching for a few added insights to more fully understand the Enron enigma.  There's just enough here to make it worth while.enough here to make it worth while.	2002-12-10
US	52940618	R1HIVHS032YDMD	0465089038	949592596	An Unlikely Conservative	Books	5	20	30	N	N	Linda Chavez Combats the Politically Correct Left	It is sad that Linda Chavez even had to write this book.  Regrettably,  however, the radical Left has successfully branded anyone who rejects socialist nostrums and desires to minimize the importance of race and ethnicity in American politics as a traitor to their roots.  Chavez is often treated rudely and contemptuously for merely advocating the principle that all citizens should be judged on merit and not on the color of their skin.  She suffered occasional prejudice as a Hispanic child growing up in Albuquerque, New Mexico.  Also, like many other children of ethnic parents--she never learned to speak the so-called native tongue.  The dominant culture of the United States is a melting pot that fortunately assimilates its immigrants in a relatively short time.  So much so, Linda Chavez later even marries a man of Jewish descent.  She shares with the reader these assimilationist challenges that many other ethnic groups of lighter pigmentation had a much easier time to resolve.  Racism does exist in our country, but Chavez is confident that America possesses the democratic institutions that are able to overcome bigotry and unjust discrimination.<br />The author early on in her adult years took for granted that the Democrat Party best represented the hopes and aspirations of the Hispanic community.  She eventually realized that this mindset left much to be desired.  Thus, her journey as \\"the most hated Hispanic in america\\" begins and her life would never again be the same.  We learn about her experiences with the administration of Ronald Reagan and the present one of George W. Bush.  Linda Chavez sees first hand how the Liberal political establishment advocates educational policies that unintentionally cause far more harm than good.  Not everything goes smoothly, and Chavez endures the pitfalls of running for political office and accepting a cabinet post. Linda Chavez is still a relatively young woman and will not be disappearing off the national stage anytime in the near future.  This book will do much to help you to understand how much more she has to offer her fellow Americans.  An earlier community reviewer mentioned that \\"An Unlikely Conservative\\" also serves as a profound work of history.  I agree completely with this opinion.e near future.  This book will do much to help you to understand how much more she has to offer her fellow Americans.  An earlier community reviewer mentioned that \\"An Unlikely Conservative\\" also serves as a profound work of history.  I agree completely with this opinion.	2002-12-05
US	52940618	R2H28BC7LTKZPQ	031230644X	372306096	The War Against the Terror Masters: Why It Happened. Where We Are Now. How We'll Win.	Books	5	51	63	N	Y	The West is in a Life or Death Struggle	The terror masters despise our economic system and culture, but freely use our cell phones, computers, and modern weaponry in their relentless efforts to destroy us.  Michael Ledeen also notes that these thugs form alliances with their ideological opposites that are peculiar to say the least.  Logical consistency is apparently not a highly held value.  The Ayatollah Khomeini was a radical Islamic cleric who didn't hesitate to ally \\"himself with anyone who could advance his cause: from Sunni terrorists like Arafat to Marxists unbelievers like the the leaders of the PFLP, and even deviants from the Islamic tradition like Hafez al-Assad.\\"  The author contends that it is foolhardy to suggest \\"that members of different sects and or traditions cannot work together in a common enterprise.\\" On the contrary, terrorist leaders readily embrace the concept that the enemy of my enemy is my friend.  This is especially true when their common foe is the United States and the other centers of Western Civilization.  Tomorrow they probably will return to killing each other, but today there are infidels to be murdered.  \\"If it were simply a matter of our actions,\\" adds Ledeen, \\"the leaders of the Muslim world would hail America as one of the greatest allies they've ever had.\\"  Didn't we, after all, save Muslims in Afghanistan, Kuwait, and Bosnia?  Sadly, our efforts motivated by moral considerations are deemed irrelevant and unworthy of gratitude.  We should also not be deluded in believing that this hatred is directly connected to Israel's tense predicament with the Palestinians.  The rage of the Islamic fascists transcends this seemingly intractable problem.  The ultimate goal of these monsters is to eradicate our very presence anywhere on this planet.<br />The United States is paying a severe price for long viewing the Middle East \\"in the context of the anti-Communist struggle, not as a problem unto itself.\\"  Ledeen is particularly frank concerning the incompetence and naivet&eacute; of our recent Presidents.  Both the Republican administration of George Bush 41 and Democrat Bill Clinton underestimated the threats emanating from the Islamic lands.  The latter is especially criticized for leaving our nation vulnerable.  Clinton virtually gutted the CIA and the FBI rendering these agencies incapable of performing even minimal intelligence duties.  The author employs the insights of Machiavelli to conclude that men like former President Clinton are \\"indolent princes\\" who \\"prefer to play it safe, and either take half measures or simply pretend to act.\\"  George Bush 43 hesitates in admitting that some aspects of the Muslim faith do not encourage peace and brotherhood, but overall he is currently leading our nation in the right direction.<br />Should we be pessimistic?  Are we doomed?  Not at all, asserts Ledeen.  The author devotes an entire chapter regarding \\"How to Win the War.\\"  \\"Don't forget how quickly the Soviet Empire imploded,\\" he points out , \\"to the astonishment of most of the world.\\"  The United States must secure its homeland, \\"kill or incarcerate the terrorists,\\" and destroy their infrastructure.  You will find the author's development of these three central themes to be both fascinating and invaluable.  \\"The War Against The Terror Masters\\" should be on the top of your list.  I strongly recommend it.of our recent Presidents.  Both the Republican administration of George Bush 41 and Democrat Bill Clinton underestimated the threats emanating from the Islamic lands.  The latter is especially criticized for leaving our nation vulnerable.  Clinton virtually gutted the CIA and the FBI rendering these agencies incapable of performing even minimal intelligence duties.  The author employs the insights of Machiavelli to conclude that men like former President Clinton are \\"indolent princes\\" who \\"prefer to play it safe, and either take half measures or simply pretend to act.\\"  George Bush 43 hesitates in admitting that some aspects of the Muslim faith do not encourage peace and brotherhood, but overall he is currently leading our nation in the right direction.  <br />Should we be pessimistic?  Are we doomed?  Not at all, asserts Ledeen.  The author devotes an entire chapter regarding \\"How to Win the War.\\"  \\"Don't forget how quickly the Soviet Empire imploded,\\" he points out , \\"to the astonishment of most of the world.\\"  The United States must secure its homeland, \\"kill or incarcerate the terrorists,\\" and destroy their infrastructure.  You will find the author's development of these three central themes to be both fascinating and invaluable.  \\"The War Against The Terror Masters\\" should be on the top of your list.  I strongly recommend it.	2002-11-23
US	52940618	R2OEJYIBCL8IP8	0471230324	872290364	A Word A Day: A Romp Through Some of the Most Unusual and Intriguing Words in English	Books	5	63	67	N	N	A Word A Day is a gift of love from the Garg family	Anu Garg dreams of a \\"society (that) will replace guns with dictionaries.\\"  This utopian hope is unfortunately not likely to ever occur.  Nonetheless, the author of this \\"romp through some of the most unusual and intriguing words in English\\" is doing his utmost to make the world a better place.  Many loyal subscribers have long been receiving his free daily \\"Wordsmith\\" e-mail that serves to expand our knowledge and understanding of the English language.  Garg takes us along on a journey to explore a myriad collection of words that aid us in communicating with each other.  Ever wondered what one should call a group of Pheasants? What about annus mirabilis? Anu Garg will gladly tell you. He will also explain the meaning of a clochard or a massif.<br />The English language is constantly evolving.  Those who lived in the Middle Ages would be bewildered by the common tongue of today. Our democratic culture guarantees that English will never ossify and be under the control of an elite oligarchy.  We will keep on adding more words and reinterpreting some in new ways previously thought not acceptable.  Thus, Anu Garg will never be able to rest knowing that his task is finished. He has a job for life.  The author thankfully possesses more than sufficient talent to handle these  responsibilities.  Almost certainly Garg's delightful wife Stuti and their wonderful five year old daughter Ananya will continue to offer their assistance.  This is a fantastic book that should definitely grace your personal bookshelf.  Moreover, it also makes a splendid gift for just about any occasion.	2002-11-15
US	52940618	R1L39GSDJR2FJ4	0964889730	281593653	Oswald's Trigger Films: The Manchurian Candidate, We Were Strangers, Suddenly?	Books	5	3	3	N	N	John Loken presents a very compelling argument	The bells went off in my head the very first time that I heard about John Loken's thesis.  It immediately seemed entirely reasonable.  So much so, that I'm flabbergasted that apparently nobody previously has dealt with this theme in a significant manner. ...  Where did Oswald get the idea?  The author contends that the impressionable and immature young man was probably influenced by three motion pictures, We Were Strangers (1949), Suddenly (1954), and perhaps most importantly, the Manchurian Candidate (1962) released only a year before the assassination.<br />\\"Not only did Oswald have a strong inclination toward such fantasies of intrigue,\\" adds Loken, but he frequently imitated \\"what others had done or said before him.\\"  The author concedes that there's no proof that Oswald viewed the Manchurian Candidate, but it is very unlikely that this was the case.  Moreover, he subscribed to a number of publications which highlighted this film starring Frank Sinatra and Laurence Harvey as the one chosen to assassinate the president.  I don't think it to be out of line to place a special emphasis upon the latter actor's last name being Harvey.  Sinatra may have felt so guilty about the possibility Oswald was influenced by the Manchurian Candidate that he made sure it was pulled from distribution for a number of years.<br /><br />You must obtain a copy of Oswald's Trigger Films.  It is mandatory if you are truly interested in further exploring the motivating factors behind the Kennedy assassination.  Do not allow the author's lack of prestigious credentials deter you.  John Loken has earned your respect.  This relatively short book will not be deemed disappointing.	2002-10-30
US	52940618	R3H2UOLZ2G0F6A	0195150880	40612399	The Paradox of American Power: Why the World's Only Superpower Can't Go It Alone	Books	3	23	59	N	N	Has the author ever seen Gary Cooper in �High Noon?�	Only recently we learned that Korea suckered the Clinton administration and proceeded to use our financial donations to expand its nuclear armaments program.  Joseph Nye was the Assistant Secretary of Defense for International Security Affairs during that period.  It is not unfair to ask if the author is unwittingly part of problem---and not part of the solution.  Nye appears to be among those who innately blame America for the irritation of its fellow members in the United Nations. Has he ever considered the possibility that our country might be mostly blameless?  The author fails to address an unavoidable question: are many of our allies too soft to do their duty? Nye prefers to ignore the harsh fact that more than a few of our fair weathered friends have chosen to be wimpy pacifists.  Has he already forgotten that the United States saved millions of lives in the Balkans?  NATO, without American military might, was found to be an empty shell of an organization.  Europeans enjoying their pampered welfare state lifestyles shy away from adequately paying the military costs to defend themselves.  Their economies are imploding and unemployment rates continue to rise.  Only a handful like the Czech Republic seem to be thriving.<br />America is the only real superpower on this planet essentially by default.  The situation may be analogous to a runner who wins the race because nobody else showed up.  Why should we grant veto authority to those not willing to shoulder their fair share of the burden?  What is to de done if our comrades never wish to get past the discussion stage?  Also, who ever said that military power alone was sufficient?  Nye appears to be knocking down a straw man.  I have never heard any serious thinker make such a claim.  The author criticizes our government for opting out of international treaties concerning global warming.  Isn't he aware that those sounding the alarm over this debatable issue often rely upon junk science?  Should we embrace their fatuous proposals merely to keep everybody happy?  Is America arrogant because it refuses to suffer fools gladly?  Nye's very premise is severely flawed.  He tactically, if not explicitly, believes that dialogue alone will resolve virtually all differences of opinion.  Regretfully, this is only true if both sides of the dispute are honest with themselves.  It may even cause more harm than good if either party is indulging in self delusion or outright dishonesty.  The United States, especially after 9/11,  courts disaster if it shies away from unilateral action after prudently concluding that multilateralism is not a viable option.  Joseph Nye should view the movie \\"High Noon\\" with Gary Cooper who plays the role of the sheriff who ultimately is compelled to unilaterally confront the outlaws because the rest of the town is too cowardly to respond multilaterally.  This film will be far more helpful to him than the numerous Liberal dominated conferences he attends.eir fatuous proposals merely to keep everybody happy?  Is America arrogant because it refuses to suffer fools gladly?  Nye's very premise is severely flawed.  He tactically, if not explicitly, believes that dialogue alone will resolve virtually all differences of opinion.  Regretfully, this is only true if both sides of the dispute are honest with themselves.  It may even cause more harm than good if either party is indulging in self delusion or outright dishonesty.  The United States, especially after 9/11,  courts disaster if it shies away from unilateral action after prudently concluding that multilateralism is not a viable option.  Joseph Nye should view the movie \\"High Noon\\" with Gary Cooper who plays the role of the sheriff who ultimately is compelled to unilaterally confront the outlaws because the rest of the town is too cowardly to respond multilaterally.   This film will be far more helpful to him than the numerous Liberal dominated conferences he attends.	2002-10-21
US	52940618	R1GVZXTA3DA6AY	0895261464	690499814	Invasion: How America Still Welcomes Terrorists Criminals & Other Foreign Menaces to Our Shores	Books	5	93	108	N	N	There's plenty of blame to go around	This book is not a right-wing screed.  Michelle Malkin blames both the Republicans and the Democrats for this mess.  The former prefer to look the other way while illegal immigrants enter our country because of the business advantages.  Politically correct Liberals, on the other hand, unwittingly join forces with them due to their unwillingness to take to task those with darker complexions.  Our immigration bureaucrats make matters far worse with their gross incompetence and willful indifference to our laws.<br />America paradoxically is placed in an awkward predicament.  After all, aren't we are a nation of immigrants? Our hearts go out to those who also desire to become citizens like our ancestors of another generation. Where do we draw the line?  Are we indulging in hypocrisy when clamoring to raise the bridge after we are safely across?  Did our ancestors truly follow all of the immigration laws of this country?  Alas, we cannot afford to ignore these  issues merely because they make us feel uncomfortable.  This is especially true during an era of widespread foreign based terrorism.  These monsters have no hesitation in exploiting the loop holes in our system.  We should have sufficiently dealt with this problem before 9/11. However, it's better late than never.  I highly recommend Malkin's book.  She will help you make up for lost time.	2002-10-17
US	52940618	R25QVHHH23XQZ6	185984054X	181218559	The Missionary Position: Mother Teresa in Theory and Practice	Books	5	267	316	N	Y	Hitchens' book on Mother Theresa deserves a fair hearing	Christian theology teaches that everyone is imperfect and tainted by Original Sin.  All human beings are tempted by the sin of pride and other vices.  Why should Mother Theresa be any different?  There are indeed serious questions that were never adequately answered regarding the large sums of money at her disposal.  Were they spent according to the wishes of the donors, or was much of it siphoned off to other endeavors that had little to do with assisting the hopelessly downtrodden?  Did these unfortunates truly receive the best medical care possible?  Is there any truth to the allegations that many of these patients were denied pain killers to supposedly prepare them spiritually for life everlasting? Why didn't Mother Theresa comprehend the cold fact that dictators and convicted criminals were giving her money stolen from other people?  Would trained certified public accountants have found many abuses and squandering of funds?  Alas, often even well meaning people unwittingly waste the resources under their direct responsibility.  A good heart alone is not enough when managing a large organization.<br />It is intellectual dishonest to ignore \\"The Missionary Position.\\"  Christopher Hitchens is an avowed atheist, but this shouldn't be held against him. The author's rhetoric is admittedly a bit too aggressive and borders on the abusive.  Nonetheless, Hitchens has presented some strong evidence that tarnishes the hagiographic memory of the often described Saint of Calcutta.  The man deserves a point by point careful rebuke and not argumentum ad hominem attacks. This relatively short book earns a place among all the other works on Mother Theresa....	2002-10-09
US	52940618	RXML237FNZV5U	0944029493	389854441	Ivory Towers on Sand: The Failure of Middle Eastern Studies in America (Policy Papers (Washington Institute for Near East Policy), No. 58.)	Books	5	70	100	N	N	Do the lunatics run the asylums?	Martin Kramer provides abundant evidence that the politically correct Leftists dominate the academic field of Middle Eastern Studies in the United States. These individuals are also intellectually incompetent and possess an intense hostility toward the values of Western Civilization. The author quotes esteemed scholar Bernard Lewis as deploring the painful fact that \\"Professional advancement in Middle East studies can be achieved with knowledge and skill well below what is normally required in other more developed fields or more frequented disciplines, where standards are established and maintained by a large number of competent professionals over long periods.\\" The situation has worsened considerably since the 1978 publication of Edward Said's \\"Orientalism\\" which essentially perceives most Middle Eastern scholarship as bigoted imperialistic attacks upon the Muslim world. All cultures are basically equal and it is outrageous, according to Said, to claim that the West has surpassed the Islamic nations in all of the sciences, literature, and the arts. However, it is impossible to hold Said's position without ignoring the solidly established truth concerning the 500 year decline of the followers of Mohammed. This collapse occurred long before the so-called Western imperialists directly impacted the events and decisions of the Muslim leaders of the Middle Ages. Scapegoating the West is absurd and illogical. Martin Kramer seems to shy away from pointing out Said's tacit, if not explicit, Marxist intellectual underpinnings. Needless to add, I have no such reluctance. It is virtually impossible to understand these Leftist academics unless one addresses the Marxism pervading their writings.<br />Kramer warns that the radical Liberal Middle Eastern academic agenda is politically motivated. These academics feel uncomfortable with the very notion of objective and disinterested scholarship. Instead, they prefer to embrace the thinking of Michael Foucault who argues that truth really doesn't exist and ultimately those in power mandate what is to be the accepted interpretation of any given set of facts. Should we still be pessimistic even after the attacks of 9/11? Haven't Liberal academics like John Esposito been thoroughly humiliated by their gross underestimation of the threat of Islamic militancy? Isn't their day in the sun over because the general public is now aware of their malicious shenanigans? Alas, the author fears that these Leftist extremists are solidly ensconced within their academic departments. It is therefore incumbent upon us to consistently take them to task when they fall into error. The intellectual wars must not be avoided if we are to have any chance whatsoever in fighting the war on terrorism. You must read Martin Kramer's \\"Ivory Towers on Sand\\" if you truly desire to comprehend what is at stake. A visit to the author's new web site, Campus Watch, should be strongly considered.  Moreover, it is also incumbent upon you to do your share in this battle for the hearts and minds of the students attending these universities. We are not morally allowed to sit on the sidelines.eally doesn't exist and ultimately those in power mandate what is to be the accepted interpretation of any given set of facts. Should we still be pessimistic even after the attacks of 9/11? Haven't Liberal academics like John Esposito been thoroughly humiliated by their gross underestimation of the threat of Islamic militancy? Isn't their day in the sun over because the general public is now aware of their malicious shenanigans? Alas, the author fears that these Leftist extremists are solidly ensconced within their academic departments. It is therefore incumbent upon us to consistently take them to task when they fall into error. The intellectual wars must not be avoided if we are to have any chance whatsoever in fighting the war on terrorism. You must read Martin Kramer's \\"Ivory Towers on Sand\\" if you truly desire to comprehend what is at stake. A visit to the author's new web site, Campus Watch, should be strongly considered.  Moreover, it is also incumbent upon you to do your share in this battle for the hearts and minds of the students attending these universities. We are not morally allowed to sit on the sidelines.	2002-10-06
US	52940618	R3JMQM9W4CLVFY	0312261470	938287639	Dominion: The Power of Man, the Suffering of Animals, and the Call to Mercy	Books	5	191	218	N	N	Human beings should not rationalize away their cruelty	Matthew Scully's Dominion is not to be quickly perused and immediately forgotten.  I have already read this seminal work from cover to cover--and take it for granted that I must reacquaint myself with its powerful arguments at least every other month.  Scully is definitely not your typical bleeding heart Liberal.  On the contrary, the author's conservative credentials are solidly established. He has served as both a speech writer for President George W. Bush and contributing editor to the National Review. Scully's vegetarianism, however, places him in an awkward predicament within this cultural milieu.  Even neo-conservative animal lovers such as myself have no intention whatsoever in ceasing to eat meat.  He knows this to be the case but hopes to persuade us to alleviate the suffering of these animals as much as possible.  Perhaps more troubling is the moral dilemma of animals enduring pain and death in medical research projects. Where should we draw the line?  Moreover, must an animal suffer merely to assist humankind in the development of a better shampoo or other beauty products?<br />Matthew Scully fortunately is not in the same camp as the secularist philosopher, Peter Singer.  Animals are not equal to us.  The theistic contention that humans have dominion over the animal kingdom is also the author's position. They lack our intelligence and therefore find themselves unable to sufficiently thwart our will.  Yet, isn't this a reason why we should go out of our way to be kind to these mostly helpless creatures?  Why do so many religious adherents seem so indifferent to the unnecessary harm caused to these sentient members of the animal kingdom? Have many people loyal to the wisdom of the Old Testament misunderstood God's will in this matter?  Did God supposedly give us the right to treat animals as mere commodity products? Scully does not hesitate to take to task those conservatives who refuse to honestly confront the issue of animal cruelty.  Many of these folks cowardly hide behind sarcasm and viscous ridicule instead of seriously discussing these issues.<br />And yes, Dominion deserves five stars.  This book should be read and discussed by everyone claiming to be just and humane.  The radical Liberals have for far too long monopolized this debate.  It's time for other conservative thinkers to join Matthew Scully and begin thinking hard and long regarding our treatment of those lesser creatures who share the planet with us.lks cowardly hide behind sarcasm and viscous ridicule instead of seriously discussing these issues.  <br />And yes, Dominion deserves five stars.  This book should be read and discussed by everyone claiming to be just and humane.  The radical Liberals have for far too long monopolized this debate.  It's time for other conservative thinkers to join Matthew Scully and begin thinking hard and long regarding our treatment of those lesser creatures who share the planet with us.	2002-10-01
US	52940618	R12BLDQV0VPONX	0393052044	63882059	Militant Islam Reaches America	Books	5	36	45	N	N	The Islamic Militants have declared war on us	Daniel Pipes is not in the least bit hostile towards the vast majority of Muslims.  These people are our friends and neighbors, and not enemies. The author categorically rejects Samuel Huntington's thesis that we are currently engaged in a clash between civilizations.  \\"Did not the Taliban reign in Afghanistan make this clear?\\" asks Pipes. \\"Nor are the Taliban an exception: militant Islam has brutalized Muslims wherever it has achieved power, and wherever it has striven for power.\\"  The real battle is between the Islamic militants and everyone who disagrees with their non compromising and nihilistic ideology.  The politically correct Liberal establishment previous to September 11 did everything it could to make sure that Pipes would be mostly ignored and banished to the hinterlands of public awareness.  His substantial evidence concerning the dangerousness of the radical Muslims was routinely derided as bigoted and malicious.  His opponents rarely hesitated to stoop to slander.<br />Pipes agrees with Bernard Lewis that the Islamic world has been on a losing streak for the much of the last five hundred years.  No longer does it dominate the arts and sciences.  Militarily the Muslims are easily defeated even by the very small nation of Israel. Chapter six entitled \\"The glory of Islamic economics\\" alone justifies the price of this book.  Islamist economic theory is nothing more than warmed over socialism. Cynically, it is safe to say that growth oriented extremist Muslim economics is an oxymoron. The West is indeed the undisputed leader and numerous followers of Mohammed are embittered and enraged by this harsh reality.  Ataturk and his intellectual followers in Turkey were among the very few willing to reconcile themselves to this paradigm shift.  Others like the Islamic radicals immaturely respond with a murderous and suicidal scapegoating which guarantees the backwardness and dismal poverty of those lands under their control.  Were these committed radicals born and raised in an impoverished background?  Not in the least.  Most of them like Osama bin Ladin were raised in affluent surroundings.  The author seems to embrace Eric Hoffer's true believer concept arguing that many of these militants display little genuine interest in Muslim theology.  Instead, they seem to seek any half baked excuse to kill and destroy.  A normal existence of earning a living and raising a family is deemed boring.  Hypocritically, they philosophically reject our way of life but still put to full use the West's cell phones, computers, modern weaponry, and other inventions.  Logical consistency is not a highly prized value.<br />Pipes contends that this threat is not going away anytime in the near future.  We are in this battle for the long haul.  Ignoring these monsters is not a viable option.  Either we destroy radical Islamism like we earlier demolished Soviet Communism and Hitler's Nazis---or its unrelenting adherents will eradicate us from the face of this planet.  \\"Militant Islam Reaches America\\" must be read by all thinking citizens.  I also whole heartedly recommend Bernard Lewis' \\"What Went wrong?\\" along with Steven Emerson's \\"American Jihad: The Terrorists Living Among Us,\\" and Eric Hoffer's seminal classic \\"The True Believer.\\"nd raised in an impoverished background?  Not in the least.  Most of them like Osama bin Ladin were raised in affluent surroundings.  The author seems to embrace Eric Hoffer's true believer concept arguing that many of these militants display little genuine interest in Muslim theology.  Instead, they seem to seek any half baked excuse to kill and destroy.  A normal existence of earning a living and raising a family is deemed boring.  Hypocritically, they philosophically reject our way of life but still put to full use the West's cell phones, computers, modern weaponry, and other inventions.  Logical consistency is not a highly prized value.  <br />Pipes contends that this threat is not going away anytime in the near future.  We are in this battle for the long haul.  Ignoring these monsters is not a viable option.  Either we destroy radical Islamism like we earlier demolished Soviet Communism and Hitler's Nazis---or its unrelenting adherents will eradicate us from the face of this planet.   \\"Militant Islam Reaches America\\" must be read by all thinking citizens.  I also whole heartedly recommend Bernard Lewis' \\"What Went wrong?\\" along with Steven Emerson's \\"American Jihad: The Terrorists Living Among Us,\\" and Eric Hoffer's seminal classic \\"The True Believer.\\"	2002-09-03
US	52940618	RWV9L515N943N	0895261537	698227269	What's So Great About America	Books	5	5	9	N	N	Dinesh D'Souza does not take America's greatness for granted	Many are overly critical of America's faults while ignoring its superiority compared to other nations and cultures.  America's values of freedom and personal autonomy are often taken for granted even by its own citizens.  This is especially true for those utopians who go out of their way to push the envelope testing the limits of our personal freedoms.  Dinesh D'Souza immigrated from India as a young student some twenty years ago.  \\"You become Indian by having Indian parents,\\" points out the author.  Describing oneself as American, though, has nothing to do with one's ethnic background, but rather \\"a function of embracing a set of ideas.\\" F. Scott Fitzgerald's fictional character, Jay Gatsby, is not the only American to reinvent himself.<br />D'Souza acknowledges that Osama bin Ladin and other committed haters of the United States are right \\"to fear the dissolution of their traditional societies\\" because \\"America is a subversive idea.\\"  It might be argued that America's hegemonic greatness validates Francis Fukuyama's challenging thesis that the end of history has indeed occurred.  Is it even possible to greatly improve upon the American experiment?  D'Souza concedes that the \\"'gale of creative destruction' that undermines traditional institutions and traditional values\\" may be found most upsetting to those preferring a static and conforming social milieu.  The author is also a father of a seven year old daughter who fears the \\"toxic influences in American culture that threaten to destroy her innocence.\\"  Pornography is widely available and many of America's celebrities and cultural institutions ardently advocate secular humanist values.  These pernicious aspects, asserts D'Souza, still do not negate the overwhelming benefits of living in America.  Making peace with the inevitable tradeoffs is part of the bargain.<br />D'Souza adores America.  His abiding love pervades every sentence of this beautiful book.  Everyone should own a copy of What's So Great About America.  This is also a work that should be periodically picked up whenever one is tempted to forget that America is the greatest country that has ever existed on this planet.a.  This is also a work that should be periodically picked up whenever one is tempted to forget that America is the greatest country that has ever existed on this planet.	2002-07-02
US	52940618	RYKMQIV4WHEUG	189355435X	96434727	Tilting the Playing Field: Schools, Sports, Sex, and Title IX	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Adversarial Legal Tactics Determine Actual Implementation	Jessica Gavora aptly contends that laws are sometimes interpreted differently than originally intended.  One is often warned that the making of laws and sausages should not be observed by the faint of heart.  This may be even more true if we were to follow the actual implementation of those abstractly devised laws.  The<br />formulators of Title IX, for instance,  insisted that \\"no college will be required to give preferential treatment to any person solely on the basis of sex so as to balance an existing imbalance within the composition of the student body.\\"  Sadly,  the exact opposite ultimately occurred.  The wishes of the elected officials were betrayed by overly zealous feminists, adds the author, who will settle for nothing less than a radical egalitarian interpretation of gender equality.<br />An Alice in Wonderland use of the English language holds sway.  Words are distorted to deceive the gullible who fail to comprehend that they are akin to the proverbial frog being slowly boiled to death.  The concept of proportionality, points out the author, is highly nebulous and elastic.  Human beings also tend to perform actions which will protect them from harm.  We are all inclined to play it safe and avoid friction.  Lawsuits are very costly in terms of financial resources, aggravation, and time.  Thus, threatened legal action may be sufficient to discourage opposition even if unwarranted.  In the Middle Ages coercion by the sword was the norm.  Today, an attorney can force the weak to surrender to the strong.  Gavora provides overwhelming evidence that university leaders are intimidated to institute quotas before deciding which male and female sports programs to fund.  The fact that fewer women opt for athletic competition is deemed not to be relevant.  Scholarly studies indicating that many differences between the sexes are the result of nature, and not the nurturing environment imposed by an alleged sexist social order are relegated to the trash bin.  Either the numbers reflect total equality, or a hellish price is to be paid by the school's administrators.  Fortunately, Gavora does not let political conservatives off the hook.  She candidly concedes that \\"Nonetheless, before feminism took that destructive turn, conservatives did not champion the cause of equality for women, and more often than not they resisted it.\\"  Jessica Gavora has written a most necessary book that is required reading for all fair minded Americans.  The ideologues have caused enough damage.  It's time for the rest of us to advocate for balanced legislation and a fair playing field for both sexes. Another recommended work is Steven M. Gillon's \\"That's Not What We Meant to Do: Reform and its Unintended Consequences in Twentieth-Century America.\\"numbers reflect total equality, or a hellish price is to be paid by the school's administrators.  Fortunately, Gavora does not let political conservatives off the hook.  She candidly concedes that \\"Nonetheless, before feminism took that destructive turn, conservatives did not champion the cause of equality for women, and more often than not they resisted it.\\"  Jessica Gavora has written a most necessary book that is required reading for all fair minded Americans.  The ideologues have caused enough damage.  It's time for the rest of us to advocate for balanced legislation and a fair playing field for both sexes. Another recommended work is Steven M. Gillon's \\"That's Not What We Meant to Do: Reform and its Unintended Consequences in Twentieth-Century America.\\"	2002-07-01
US	52940618	R251F6RAHB1XKJ	1400046610	957571830	Slander: Liberal Lies About the American Right	Books	5	258	417	N	N	Slander is not a hyperbolic title	Ann Coulter's rhetoric may at times seem a bit bombastic and colorful,  but her arguments in Slander are cogent and cautiously stated.  It is also not a book written solely for a conservative audience .  On the contrary, Slander deserves the attention of everyone regardless of their own personal political predilections.  Coulter provides abundant evidence that our national discourse has been skewed by the major media outlets.  Thus, how can concerned citizens make wise decisions if legitimate and thoughtful positions are taken out of context and distorted?<br />Many Liberals have no intention of taking any prisoners, and long ago tacitly realized that slander is an effective weapon to use against their perceived ideological foes.  This hostility is so intense that even economic self interest does not get in the way of pushing their uncompromising agenda, adds Coulter.  TV ratings may suffer and newspapers remain unsold, but an immature and anti-intellectual Liberalism remains in control.  Liberal politicians and intellectuals may endlessly make fools of themselves, but these individuals have little to worry about.  The Liberal media will simply look the other way and cover up their misdeeds.  Not so, for those embracing a more conservative temperament.  The latter are exhaustingly nitpicked and maligned as extremists committed to destroying our constitutional values and human dignity.<br />Ann Coulter is hopeful that the Drudgereport and other independent voices on the Internet will do much to ameliorate this sad situation.  The larger media concerns must now worry that they will be taken to task whenever engaging in such outrageous misbehavior.  This was not the case just a few years ago. Coulter, it must be noted, is not a pessimist wallowing in defeatism.  Americans are not victims,  and she believes victory is realistically achievable.  We merely need to grab the bull by the horns.  The author has lighted the way---and the rest is up to us.	2002-06-26
US	52940618	R25NWSUOTJ1B9B	0895261448	353169735	Goodbye, Good Men: How Liberals Brought Corruption into the Catholic Church	Books	4	14	39	N	N	Author fails to tackle the real reason for Church crisis	Michael Rose prefers to believe that the abandonment of strict orthodoxy is the central reason behind today's crisis in the Roman Catholic Church.  Everything supposedly would be wonderful in both the seminaries and the wider Church if only the Liberals had not acquired significant influence since Vatican II.  A return to the traditional values, asserts the author, is the sure way to bring about bliss and organizational stability.  Rose is half right, but it is where Rose is half wrong that should mostly concern us.  After all, the arrest and conviction of the very high profile Our Sunday Visitor editor, Fr. Richard Ginder, for molesting altar boys occurred in the late 1960s.  Fr. Ginder certainly was not a product of Liberal seminary training!<br />The author regales us with alleged instances of Liberals making life hell on earth for their more conservative brethren.  I see no reason to dispute him on the offered evidence, and for the sake of the argument will concede that Rose has his facts straight.  Indeed,  sociologist Fr. Andrew Greeley and other reputable scholars concur that homosexual priests set the agenda for much of the Catholic Church in the United States.  Greeley, who is not an ideological comrade of Rose, even goes so far as to sarcastically describe these individuals as members of the \\"lavender mafia.\\"  Nonetheless, Rose fails to realize that the Catholic Church has few unchanging beliefs demanding the full assent of mind and will of its loyal adherents.  The author conveniently ignores the fact that Catholicism has reversed itself on many matters throughout its long history.  Why are its current teachings on human sexuality beyond question when the Church has renounced its original teachings on usury, the salvation of non-believers, political freedom, and the death penalty?  There is little sense in attempting to reform the Catholic Church unless its members are willing to confront the awkward question: which teachings are truly infallible?  When does somebody no longer have a right to call themselves a Catholic?  Every viable organization must embrace a tradition and values that are beyond dispute.  This is true whether it is a car manufacture, a non-profit charity, or even a football betting pool. Alas, Michael Rose does not adequately deal with this challenge.  He is trying to place the cart before the horse.  Should you therefore read \\"Goodbye, Good Men?\\"  Yes, but one should do so only while ingesting a huge grain of salt.does somebody no longer have a right to call themselves a Catholic?  Every viable organization must embrace a tradition and values that are beyond dispute.  This is true whether it is a car manufacture, a non-profit charity, or even a football betting pool. Alas, Michael Rose does not adequately deal with this challenge.   He is trying to place the cart before the horse.  Should you therefore read \\"Goodbye, Good Men?\\"  Yes, but one should do so only while ingesting a huge grain of salt.	2002-06-21
US	52940618	R2ZY3XCCTGL92F	1586420321	173103232	Strangers in the House: Coming of Age in Occupied Palestine	Books	4	18	53	N	N	Author misunderstands real reason behind Palestinian rage	There is no doubt that Raja Shehaded is a well meaning and peaceful man.  The Mid East would be a land of milk and honey if most of its inhabitants shared his noble aims.  However,  Shehaded mistakenly blames the present Israeli conflict for the central reason behind the rage of the Palestinian Arabs.  The author's father was likely assassinated by militant Arabs because he advocated cooperation and coexistence with Israel.  And yet,  the author ironically still fails to concede that a large number of Palestinians will not be satisfied until the Jewish state is driven into the sea.  Shehaded complains about the restrictions placed upon the movement of Palestinian citizens while virtually ignoring Israel's legitimate concerns to curtail violence. His charges of harassment and humiliation ring somewhat hollow when the whole situation is taken into context.  Why doesn't Shehaded react more strongly against the murderous militants who force Israel to enact such draconian measures?  He also seems to downplay their virulent anti-Semitism.<br />Raja Shehaded argues that peace mostly depends upon Israeli willingness to compromise.  The Palestinians who have opted for death and destruction are portrayed as more than willing to lay down their arms once a just settlement is reached.  Many categorically reject such a sanguine prediction.  Bernard Lewis, for instance,  in his most recent book, What Went Wrong?, is convinced that the whole Arab world is wallowing in rage and bitterness due to its falling behind the West.  The Palestinians are merely a microcosm of wider Arab anger over the failure of the Muslim world to achieve anything significant in the last 400-500 years.  Eric Hoffer's seminal work, The True Believer, points to the yearning of some people to seek a nihilistic cause to assuage their existential need for meaning.  Eventually returning to a life of everyday normal concerns is a near impossibility.  Admittedly, though, Shehaded has a valid point when objecting to the added Israeli settlements in the so-called occupied (the term disputed would be more accurate) territories.  The author is right on target for blaming Israel for exacerbating an already volatile situation.  Shehaded may jump to some erroneous conclusions, but he still is a voice for reasonableness and compromise. Unfortunately, the evidence indicates that few Palestinians care to listen to this decent and life affirming man.  One can only hope that Raja Shehaded's influence dramatically increases in the immediate future.the added Israeli settlements in the so-called occupied (the term disputed would be more accurate) territories.  The author is right on target for blaming Israel for exacerbating an already volatile situation.  Shehaded may jump to some erroneous conclusions, but he still is a voice for reasonableness and compromise. Unfortunately, the evidence indicates that few Palestinians care to listen to this decent and life affirming man.  One can only hope that Raja Shehaded's influence dramatically increases in the immediate future.	2002-06-17
US	52940618	R30RP4UYYH6DXD	0895261650	769863057	Shakedown: Exposing The Real Jesse Jackson	Books	5	81	91	N	N	The author has written a devastating and truthful book	Kenneth Timmerman presents the overwhelming evidence against Jessie Jackson in a very calm and dispassionate manner.  The author contends that the intellectual virus of political correctness has allowed Jackson to game the American system to his advantage.  The famous civil rights leader may do a few nice things for his constituency,  but the Reverend Jackson is first, last, and foremost taking care of number one. Greed and ambition primarily motivate his actions.  Timmerman is extremely careful with his facts.  He does not come across as angry and ideological.  One cannot tell by reading this book whether the author is a registered Democrat or a Republican.  This highly respected journalist, though, has no hesitation in explicitly describing Jackson as a liar, an accusation that is libelous if the author hasn't got his ducks lined up properly in a row.  The publisher wouldn't have dared print \\"Shakedown\\" unless there were ample facts to back it up.  Timmerman is also very well aware that even a minor mistake will be used by Jackson's supporters as a reason to discredit the whole book.<br />Jessie Jackson specializes in race card shakedowns.  Merely hinting that a prominent individual or business might be racist is usually enough to garner a major payday for the Liberal ideologue.  Timmerman asserts that politicians of both major parties are fearful of stepping on his toes. Even safely ensconced federal government bureaucrats are hesitant to take Jackson to task.  The Internal Revenue Service especially seems terrified of Jackson's power.  Jackson claims to earn only a modest salary, but lives the lavish lifestyle that can be afforded by only the very wealthy.  The self described man of God, declares Timmerman, is an inveterate womanizer who seems to have little hesitation to violate his wedding vows. There is even a serious question if the heroic Dr. Martin Luther King truly looked upon Jackson as a close comrade in the fight for civil rights.  The author believes that Jackson lied about Reverend King dying in his arms.<br />The Revered Jackson's predilection towards radical politics is most disturbing.  Timmerman describes Jackson's relationships with despotic world leaders Yasser Arafat, Fidel Castro, Charles Taylor, and Mohammar Qaddafi as warm and non confrontational.  Jackson seems disinterested in encouraging democratic reforms in<br />the Third World. \\"Many of us remember that he is the man who is sick and tired of hearing about the holocaust and that he blamed 'Jewish domination of the media' for some of the news coverage he has gotten,\\" adds Nathan Perlmutter, executive director of the Anti-Defamation League of B'nail B'rith.<br />Kenneth Timmerman's superb work on Jackson highlights the Liberal bias of the media. Needless to add, I strongly recommend \\"Shakedown.\\"  It is unfortunate that this book wasn't written years ago.  Nonetheless, it's better late than never.  I also hope that Timmerman receives a Pulitzer Prize.  It's the least that his fellow journalists can do to make up for their own past failures.that Jackson lied about Reverend King dying in his arms. <br />The Revered Jackson's predilection towards radical politics is most disturbing.  Timmerman describes Jackson's relationships with despotic world leaders Yasser Arafat, Fidel Castro, Charles Taylor, and Mohammar Qaddafi as warm and non confrontational.  Jackson seems disinterested in encouraging democratic reforms in <BR>the Third World. \\"Many of us remember that he is the man who is sick and tired of hearing about the holocaust and that he blamed 'Jewish domination of the media' for some of the news coverage he has gotten,\\" adds Nathan Perlmutter, executive director of the Anti-Defamation League of B'nail B'rith.<br />Kenneth Timmerman's superb work on Jackson highlights the Liberal bias of the media. Needless to add, I strongly recommend \\"Shakedown.\\"  It is unfortunate that this book wasn't written years ago.  Nonetheless, it's better late than never.  I also hope that Timmerman receives a Pulitzer Prize.  It's the least that his fellow journalists can do to make up for their own past failures.	2002-05-30
US	52940618	R1J83J7SX5LWC8	0743233247	512466969	American Jihad: The Terrorists Living Among Us	Books	5	107	138	N	N	The Islamic militant who may be your next door neighbor	Steve Emerson wishes to dissuade those bigots who might target a whole ethnic group merely because of the actions of a few.  This is why he adamantly declares &quot;The vast majority of all American Muslims subscribe to the strong Islamic tradition of tolerance and human dignity.&quot;  Unfortunately, Emerson adds &quot;the extremists have disproportionate influence.&quot; The latter often set the agenda for the Muslim secular and religious groups throughout virtually every area of the United States. Emerson warns us that the extremists have taken full advantage of the politically correct attitudes dominating our mainstream media and academic institutions. The case of non citizen Professor Sami Al-Arian of the University of Florida is particularly upsetting to the author.  Al-Arian was literally videotaped screaming for the &quot;death to Israel.&quot;  Nonetheless, for many years nothing effective was done to curtail his vile behavior.<br />The author says that these militants have murdered people in the United States. Steve Emerson has himself received a number of serious death threats. Federal and local police agencies, however, are often hesitant to investigate the militants. Emerson believes that these law enforcement officials are fearful of being accused of ethnic discrimination.  This might be true even after 9/11.<br />How fanatical are the Islamic fascists? Libya's Muammar Qaddafi, a major terrorist in his own right, is perceived by them to be &quot;too Western,&quot; adds Emerson.  Coloring books are provided to Muslim children instructing them on &quot;How to kill the Infidel.&quot; The adults receive tracts on the Jihad required to exterminate all Jews and Christians. These militants actively seek converts among those yearning for a &quot;true believer&quot; ideology to satisfy their existential angst.  &quot;American Jihad&quot; is mandatory reading.  The dangers cited by Steve Emerson will not disappear anytime in the near future.  We are regrettably in this battle for the long haul.y in this battle for the long haul.	2002-03-05
US	52940618	R1ON79WQONBOKU	0761319506	545356978	Deniers Of The Holocaust (Holocaust (Brookfield, Conn.).)	Books	5	8	17	N	N	Holocaust deniers and their contempt for the truth	\\"There are two sides to every argument. However, the two sides are not always equal in truth, motive, or goodwill,\\" declares Ted Gottfried.  The author's succinctly written work admirably serves as an introduction to the bizarre phenomenon of holocaust denial.  The art work of Stephen Alcorn beautifully compliments Gottfried's efforts to explain why many persist to believe the Nazi holocaust never occurred.  Regardless of the overwhelming evidence, these anti-Semites rationalize away their disbelief by offering excuses that border on madness.  No implausible conspiracy theory is avoided if it assists in maligning Jews and others deemed a threat to the Aryan majority.  Some like the highly credentialled historian David Irving should know better.  He is a well educated man who should laugh at the assertions of the deniers. Nonetheless, this self described \\"moderate fascist\\" goes so far as to reject all holocaust survivor testimony as instances of psychiatric illness.  Irving's particular circumstances compel a democratic culture to distinguish between the freedom to publish, and the right to be taken seriously.  A free society may have to permit Irving's weird ideas to enter the public debate, but he has no right to demand respect for such inept scholarship.<br />The holocaust deniers believe that the Jews deserve punishment for their alleged betrayal of their respective homelands.  They ironically argue that while the holocaust never happened, the Jews still deserved to be punished for their misdeeds.  Ludicrous myths about the supposed duplicity and back stabbing behavior of the Jews contributed greatly to the beginnings of the Nazi \\"final solution.\\"  Moral relativists attempt to minimize the horror of the Nazi holocaust by comparing it other atrocities.  Gottfried right fires back pointing out that two wrongs don't make a right.  The author alerts us to the relatively new phenomenon of numerous Internet sites devoted to hate.  Also,  major prominent politicians such as Austrian Jorg Haider praise many former Third Reich policies.  The book's only glaring weakness is its ignoring of the negative impact of holocaust denial theories on the Islamic militants.  This is especially frightening after the attacks of 9/11.  I'm sure that Ted Gottfried will make up for this oversight in a future work.  \\"Deniers of the Holocaust\\" is a worthy addition to the area of your library devoted to holocaust studies.uch as Austrian Jorg Haider praise many former Third Reich policies.  The book's only glaring weakness is its ignoring of the negative impact of holocaust denial theories on the Islamic militants.  This is especially frightening after the attacks of 9/11.  I'm sure that Ted Gottfried will make up for this oversight in a future work.   \\"Deniers of the Holocaust\\" is a worthy addition to the area of your library devoted to holocaust studies.	2002-02-28
US	52940618	R2JOCXW8P3L2H6	0195144201	433958284	What Went Wrong?: Western Impact and Middle Eastern Response	Books	5	28	35	N	N	Is the Arab world able to avoid destroying itself?	Bernard Lewis admires the past great Islamic civilization.  Some 500 years ago the Muslim world dominated the arts and sciences.  The West was backward and intellectually impoverished.  Yet,  today Western Civilization surpasses the Islamic culture in just about every important category.  How did this occur?  The author<br />possesses the overwhelming credentials to perspicaciously respond to this disturbing question.  Lewis has literally written more books on the subject than most entire Mid Eastern departments of our major universities.  It is very appropriate to colloquially compare Bernard Lewis to Basketball's Michael Jordan.<br />Lewis is despised by those of the politically correct Left.  They charge him with being an \\"Orientalist\\" bigot who exaggerates the collapse of Islamic culture. The latter are grievously in error for Bernard Lewis goes out of his way to portray the Arab world in a fair and balanced manner.  Lewis describes the majority of Arabs as enraged by the successes of the so called infidel West.  These Arabs often feel at least subconsciously entitled by God himself to the best of everything.  It is therefore existentially difficult to concede the harsh fact that the Arab world is now so far behind the curve.  Unfortunately, many Arabs have opted for nihilistic responses that only worsen their predicament.  Lewis' book is tough reading.  He is fairly pessimistic and sees little reason to be cheerful concerning the near future.  The esteemed scholar even wonders if the West should seek fuel alternatives so that it can economically afford to abandon the seemingly suicidal Arabs!<br />This book must be read by everybody.  The situation since the terrorist attacks of 9/11 demands that Bernard Lewis becomes a household name.  It is perhaps even a moral obligation to make sure you obtain a copy.	2002-02-09
US	52940618	R66XCR3JTZVLC	0312285485	385557836	The Death of the West: How Dying Populations and Immigrant Invasions Imperil Our Country and Civilization	Books	5	21	26	N	Y	Pat Buchanan's &quot;Death of the West&quot; must not be ignored	The author and I disagree on many matters.  Still, I must congratulate Pat Buchanan for tackling the thankless task of questioning the possible disintegration of Western Civilization.  The man is courageous to say the least.  Most writers wouldn't touch this subject with the proverbial ten foot pole. There is no way, for instance, that I can dissent from his prediction that the white population's decreasing numbers will relatively soon reverse the demographics of Europe and the United States.  People of color indeed do have more children, and there is little evidence hinting that affluent whites plan on raising larger families.  But is this something to be overly concerned about?<br />Buchanan seems far too pessimistic about the ability of American culture to assimilate its newest arrivals.  He rightfully worries about the deleterious impact of political correctness and radical multi-culturalism on slowing down this necessary process.  I remain, though, unconvinced that this problem cannot be resolved.  The history of the United States strongly suggests that the second and third generations of immigrants become thoroughly American.  Buchanan underestimates the importance of learning English if one deserves to earn a good income.  Few younger immigrants are likely to prefer speaking only their native language if this dooms them to a meager lifestyle.  This factor alone considerable weakens Buchanan's case.<br />Pat Buchanan is not a racist.  I'm sure that he would have no problem if the vast majority of Americans were not white as long as these individuals embrace the essential values of the West and our constitution.  The author also strongly dislikes neo-conservatives such as myself.  We are supposedly guilty of sacrificing America's interest to the demands of the large globalist corporations and other New World elite groups.  However, Buchanan's irritation with the neo-con agenda doesn't  prevent me from strongly encouraging the reader to purchase this book. &quot;Death of the West&quot; should dominate the continuing debates on the American future.  The author offers much food for thought, and it is unwise to blithely disregard his warnings.  Alas, there is indeed a possibility that I am wrong, and Pat Buchanan is right!  The consequences therefore could be tragic.;Death of the West&quot; should dominate the continuing debates on the American future.  The author offers much food for thought, and it is unwise to blithely disregard his warnings.  Alas, there is indeed a possibility that I am wrong, and Pat Buchanan is right!  The consequences therefore could be tragic.	2002-01-21
US	52940618	R1HKS6XJYMS7R6	0385500521	288543952	Carnage and Culture: Landmark Battles in the Rise of Western Power	Books	5	63	72	N	Y	The Western World's Unrivaled Ability to Kill its Enemies	Victor David Hanson superbly argues that &quot;Western civilization has given mankind the only economic system that works, a rationalist<br />tradition that alone allows us material and technological progress, the sole political structure that ensures the freedom of the individual, a system of ethics and a religion that brings out the best in humankind---and the most lethal practice of arms conceivable.&quot; The author offers abundant evidence found in the historical documents of battles fought in ancient times until the present. Soldiers of Athens, Rome, and the United States, unlike their foes, enjoyed a great degree of freedom and true citizenship. Warriors were not always soldiers, but civilians called upon temporally to fight for their nation. &quot;To live as you please&quot; is a value taken very seriously. A sense of fairness and justice pervades the ranks of the Western soldier. Virginia Military Institute officer candidates, for instance, &quot;are largely protected through a system of military justice from capricious punishment--and (also) accept that gratuitous violence on their part will be severely punished.&quot;<br />Embracing traditional methods solely to honor the ancients is alien to the Western mindset.  Killing the messenger who brings forth bad news is the normal practice of the less free non-Western powers. Not so for those in authority within Western regimes. Individualism is highly cherished. Dissent and the questioning of past practices underpin the western military model. &quot;A military command may steal secrets daily over the Internet, but if it cannot discuss those ideas openly with its civilian and military leadership, then there is no guarantee that such information will find its optimum application to ensure parity with the West,&quot; warns Hanson. This military historian's insights on how America defeated Japan during World War II is reason enough to justify the price of this magnificent volume.<br />Trained to remain in formation during battle, the Western soldier often defeated enemies physically and numerically stronger. Hanson points out that courage alone isn't sufficient. The ability and willingness to fight in an unrelenting disciplined and intelligent manner turned ordinary men into ferocious killing machines. The<br />barbarism and fearlessness of the Aztec warriors, American Indians, and the Zulus were ultimately no match for their Western opponents. &quot;Carnage and Culture&quot; is an indispensable book to read during our country's current trials and tribulations. It demands a prominent place on your personal bookshelf.during battle, the Western soldier often defeated enemies physically and numerically stronger. Hanson points out that courage alone isn't sufficient. The ability and willingness to fight in an unrelenting disciplined and intelligent manner turned ordinary men into ferocious killing machines. The<BR>barbarism and fearlessness of the Aztec warriors, American Indians, and the Zulus were ultimately no match for their Western opponents. &quot;Carnage and Culture&quot; is an indispensable book to read during our country's current trials and tribulations. It demands a prominent place on your personal bookshelf.	2001-10-10
US	52940618	R3AD8TU0I8GQ1K	0738204463	334459	Word on the Street: Debunking the Myth of "Pure" Standard English	Books	5	29	37	N	Y	There is indeed no such thing as &quot;pure&quot; standard English	John McWhorter convincingly argues that there is no such thing as an absolutist standard English forevermore etched in stone. The very first section of this beautiful book is aptly entitled &quot;Language: A Living Organism.&quot;  McWhorter takes to task those laboring &quot;under the common illusion that a language ought be a static, unchanging system.&quot;  It should be immediately added that language is an intrinsically nebulous activity.  A word is meaningless unless used in a particular context. Even the infamous &quot;n&quot; word may have a positive connotation when used among friends.  So-called Black English is simply another form of communication that pragmatically works for some people.  The only valid question is whether these individuals sufficiently understand each other.  If the answer is yes, then it minimally qualifies as a language.  Alas, every group of people embracing a minority language must compromise and accept a standard language that best responds to the needs of the overall majority.  There are, though, no set rules in achieving this goal.  A democratically premised culture must do its best to resolve this never ending messy and thankless task.  Feelings will inevitably be hurt, and feathers will be ruffled.  Democracies are not perfect institutions, only far better than all of the alternatives.<br />&quot;Put simply, the term language is shorthand for a collection of dialects, of which one happens to be used by the elite and written down, while the others are not,&quot; insightfully declares McWhorter.  One might also point out that all human beings have the ability to invent a new word.  However, others must be converted over to<br />accepting any such attempt at originality.  Words constantly evolve, and some prominent today may disappear tomorrow.  McWhorter and I almost certainly agree that the conceded nebulousness of language is no reason to succumb to the nihilism of the philosophical deconstructionists.  Both of us harshly view the Stanley Fishs and Jacques Derridas of the academic community.  A human being's developed virtue of prudential judgment is more than adequate to guide them through the challenge of ascertaining a workable consensus meaning for each and every word.<br />McWhorter's brilliant work is not merely an Afro-American scholar's effort to confront the conventionally conservative white language establishment.  On the contrary, this esteemed professor has written a masterpiece on the very nature of language itself.  &quot;Word on the Street&quot; should be in everyone's personal library.he Stanley Fishs and Jacques Derridas of the academic community.  A human being's developed virtue of prudential judgment is more than adequate to guide them through the challenge of ascertaining a workable consensus meaning for each and every word.<br />McWhorter's brilliant work is not merely an Afro-American scholar's effort to confront the conventionally conservative white language establishment.  On the contrary, this esteemed professor has written a masterpiece on the very nature of language itself.  &quot;Word on the Street&quot; should be in everyone's personal library.	2001-10-04
US	52940618	R2H7YIAOM5KSMU	0971233306	271686518	The High-Tech Survival Guide	Books	5	12	16	N	Y	Brian Barton May Have Written the Best Job Search Book	The irony is that Brian Barton's book is perhaps the best of its kind only because his suggestions are not common knowledge.  The more copies that are sold, the less valuable it becomes. Nonetheless, this shouldn't deter those who desire in the meantime to take advantage of some excellent advice.  ...This understandable question is adamantly and unhesitatingly answered in the affirmative.<br />Barton has many insights to share, and unfortunately in our increasingly \\"free agent\\" economy---most people will until retirement be job hopping every two to three years.  I refuse to sneak out any bits of wisdom from \\"The High-Tech Survival Guide.\\"  The author deserves compensation for his efforts and valued assistance.  This is a five star book, and you definitely should obtain a copy.  However, I will add some points of my own.  It is strongly recommended for all job seekers to use the Internet search engine \\"Google.\\" One should immediately obtain tons of useful information by merely putting in the phone number of the possible employer. What if they only list their fax number in a newspaper ad to prevent being contacted by either phone or in-person?  No problem, querying \\"Google\\" by inserting only this number will usually give you the name and address of the company.  Also, don't make photostat copies to give to your friends after you purchase this book.  They are morally bound to buy their own copy.	2001-10-03
US	52940618	R2XDF5XTGM6GC2	1586480405	585261139	Free Flight: From Airline Hell to a New Age of Travel	Books	5	8	8	N	Y	We must take a fresh post-September 11 look at &quot;Free Flight&quot;	James Fallows' superb book must be totally reevaluated after the terrorists attacks of September 11. Previous to that horrifying date, some may have wrongly concluded that Fallows was merely presenting another opportunity for the affluent Yuppie class to indulge in conspicuous consumption. Purchasing a small airplane still remains a luxury affordable by perhaps less than 2% of the general population. The small plane business model could compete against standard air travel pricing, but not the very inexpensive tickets that permit the very poor to fly. Our current national crisis, however, compels Americans to seriously look at all of their viable travel alternatives.<br />Small planes have become a more practical and less risky way to move around the country. This is especially true for flights under 500 miles. Airport security measures will significantly increase traveling time. A smaller plane has fewer passengers, and therefore a thorough security check should at least theoretically take only a few minutes. Companies may also feel more comfortable knowing that their top executives are not on board a larger airliner. Internet guru Esther Dyson said that &quot;this book makes you want to go out and put down a deposit on one of the new aircraft.&quot; I suspect that Dyson originally made this remark dwelling only upon the aspect of added convenience. My gut impression is Ms. Dyson today thinks that she would be safer sitting behind the controls of her own airplane.<br />The smaller fuel tanks of the these airplanes limit their attractiveness to those embracing the terrorist mindset. These planes simply cannot be used as something akin to a cruise missile to destroy large buildings and major military targets. Also, pilots are well aware that they will be shot down if they deviate away from their assigned travel route. The U.S. Air Force is essentially being told to shoot first, and ask questions later! The distinguished journalist James Fallows had no idea that this book would be released only a few months before America went to war. We should be thankful that Mr. Fallows has performed this valuable service. &quot;Free Flight&quot; easily earns a five star recommendation.book would be released only a few months before America went to war. We should be thankful that Mr. Fallows has performed this valuable service. &quot;Free Flight&quot; easily earns a five star recommendation.	2001-09-23
US	52940618	R1M02BMTAPR6NN	0156005832	388617595	Out of America: A Black Man Confronts Africa	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Keith Richburg's Journey has Much to Offer all Americans	Keith Richburg and I were both raised in Detroit, Michigan. He attended St. Leo's Catholic school where I was a member of a boy scout troop. We never met, but I readily commiserate with his experiences in that racially charged city. Richburg's memories of the 1966 riot reminded me of that awful time. This book deals with Richburg's efforts to confront the meaning of race in his own life, and particularly as a Washington Post journalist witnessing first hand the widespread blood shed and inhumanity in the land of his ancient ancestors. &quot;So you learn to lie,&quot; adds Richburg, simply to survive the Kafka like madness. The never ending corruption of petty bureaucrats and the trigger happy tribal gangsters discouraged adherence to even the minimal standards of civilized society. Richburg originally admitted that &quot;I was among those early believers that a military intervention in Somalia could work and that the United States should lead it, but later realized the wisdom of Smith Hempstone's warning, &quot;If you liked Beirut, you'll love Mogadishu.&quot; Furthermore, &quot;It was, I often mused, one of Somalia's strangest paradoxes. When no one comes to help, they cry that the world is indifferent to their suffering. And when people do come, what do the Somalis do? They shoot them in the back of the head, drag the naked bodies through the street, beat them to death with bricks.&quot; The author may have been originally entertained notions of Africa being the utopian homeland for American blacks, but such naive sentiments turned out to be hopelessly flawed. Richburg quickly realized that as an Afro-American he was perceived as an alien by the indigent Africans. He might as well as been a visitor from another planet. &quot;Thank God my nameless ancestor, brought across the ocean in chains and leg irons, made it out alive. Thank God that I am an American,&quot; Richburg has to finally conclude. Keith Richburg is not a hopeless cynic. However, he refuses to pretend that the task will be easy and risk free. &quot;Out of Africa--A Black Man Confronts Africa&quot; was written in 1996, but is just as relevant today. This book is mandatory reading for everyone desiring to bring about peace to a troubled world. Pollyannaish politically correct wishful thinking accomplishes nothing. I wholeheartedly encourage the reader to immediately obtain a copy.d that the task will be easy and risk free. &quot;Out of Africa--A Black Man Confronts Africa&quot; was written in 1996, but is just as relevant today. This book is mandatory reading for everyone desiring to bring about peace to a troubled world. Pollyannaish politically correct wishful thinking accomplishes nothing. I wholeheartedly encourage the reader to immediately obtain a copy.	2001-08-25
US	52940618	RGJKWH7ZDL76T	0156005832	388617595	Out of America: A Black Man Confronts Africa	Books	5	14	14	N	N	Keith Richburg's Journey has Much to Offer all Americans	Keith Richburg and I were both raised in Detroit, Michigan. He attended St. Leo's Catholic school where I was a member of a boy scout troop. We never met, but I readily commiserate with his experiences in that racially charged city. Richburg's memories of the 1967 riot reminded me of that awful time. This book deals with Richburg's efforts to confront the meaning of race in his own life, and particularly as a Washington Post journalist witnessing first hand the widespread blood shed and inhumanity in the land of his ancient ancestors. &quot;So you learn to lie,&quot; adds Richburg, simply to survive the Kafka like madness. The never ending corruption of petty bureaucrats and the trigger happy tribal gangsters discouraged adherence to even the minimal standards of civilized society. Richburg originally admitted that &quot;I was among those early believers that a military intervention in Somalia could work and that the United States should lead it, but later realized the wisdom of Smith Hempstone's warning, &quot;If you liked Beirut, you'll love Mogadishu.&quot; Furthermore, &quot;It was, I often mused, one of Somalia's strangest paradoxes. When no one comes to help, they cry that the world is indifferent to their suffering. And when people do come, what do the Somalis do? They shoot them in the back of the head, drag the naked bodies through the street, beat them to death with bricks.&quot; The author may have been originally entertained notions of Africa being the utopian homeland for American blacks, but such naive sentiments turned out to be hopelessly flawed. Richburg quickly realized that as an Afro-American he was perceived as an alien by the indigent Africans. He might as well as been a visitor from another planet. &quot;Thank God my nameless ancestor, brought across the ocean in chains and leg irons, made it out alive. Thank God that I am an American,&quot; Richburg has to finally conclude. Keith Richburg is not a hopeless cynic. However, he refuses to pretend that the task will be easy and risk free. &quot;Out of America--A Black Man Confronts Africa&quot; was written in 1996, but is just as relevant today. This book is mandatory reading for everyone desiring to bring about peace to a troubled world. Pollyannaish politically correct wishful thinking accomplishes nothing. I wholeheartedly encourage the reader to immediately obtain a copy.	2001-08-25
US	52940618	R2990F55QWG2WD	0813327024	95567579	Am I A Murderer?: Testament Of A Jewish Ghetto Policeman	Books	5	7	14	N	N	Author Was Forced to Choose Among the Lesser of Evils	Calel Perechodnik personally experienced very little anti-Semitism previous to the Nazi invasion of Poland.  He and his wife had an opportunity to move to Palestine,  but opted to remain in the country of their birth.  The young engineer lived a low profile life in his hometown of Otwock, and expected the lives of Jews to only  improve as the overall Polish culture turned more secular.  Calel respected his Jewish traditions, but perceived himself as primarily a cosmopolitan man who took  organized religion with a huge grain of salt.  Everything, however,  dramatically changed for the worse once the Nazis became the occupying power of Poland.  The anti-Semitism of the Roman Catholic majority thereafter ceased being dormant and subtle, and many of these ordinary citizens became vile monsters.  Virtually  overnight they treated their Jewish friends and neighbors as akin to vermin requiring elimination.<br />The author attempts to save his wife and young daughter by becoming a ghetto policeman.  The German Nazis cynically realized that Jewish men could best keep their fellow human beings under control.  False hopes were conveyed to the Jews promising that their situation would be secure if only they cooperated. &quot;Jews perished first of all because they didn't realize in time what level German cruelty and barbarism would reach,&quot; added the author. The 27 year old Perechodnik is  forced to choose the less of evils.  Ultimately, his family is not spared and the author is trapped in an environment where treachery, greed, and murder are the norm.  Perechodnik's chronicle is not easy reading.  It is a moral duty, and not in the least bit pleasurable.  The reader will constantly be challenged to dwell upon the  horrific choices of Perechodnik. The awkward question of how we would behave under similar circumstances is inevitable.<br />There are a few other books mandating your legitimate interest. Only a few months ago, the Holocaust scholar Jan T. Gross released his superb work &quot;Neighbors&quot;  which deals with similar atrocities committed in the Polish town of Jedwabne.  Peter Wyden's &quot;Stella&quot; published in 1992 concerns a young Jewish woman who for  purely selfish reasons betrayed her friends to the Nazis.  Only the very thin veneer of civilization separates us from barbarism.  Thus, we are obligated not to ignore  the unpleasant truths about the recorded depths of human depravity.  Increasing our knowledge betters our chances of curtailing future horrors.superb work &quot;Neighbors&quot;  which deals with similar atrocities committed in the Polish town of Jedwabne.  Peter Wyden's &quot;Stella&quot; published in 1992 concerns a young Jewish woman who for  purely selfish reasons betrayed her friends to the Nazis.  Only the very thin veneer of civilization separates us from barbarism.   Thus, we are obligated not to ignore  the unpleasant truths about the recorded depths of human depravity.  Increasing our knowledge betters our chances of curtailing future horrors.	2001-08-12
US	52940618	R1BD7A8ILEMCT0	0300083645	664679205	You Say You Want a Revolution : A Story of Information Age Politics	Books	4	4	5	N	Y	Both Major Parties are Responsible for this Mess	Former Chairman of the Federal Communications Communications Commission Reed Hundt is far too enamored of activist government. This unfortunate mindset severely hindered the author's legitimate opposition to the excesses of the Republican controlled U.S. Congress. Hundt rightfully wished to draw &quot;attention to the contradictions between sound conservative ideology and (actual) Republican behavior.&quot; Many right-wing Republican elected officials indeed talked the talk about encouraging free economic activity in the telecom industry while hypocritically kowtowing to the wishes of the powerful and wealthy Baby Bells. Capitalist godfather Adam Smith long ago warned that businessmen are inclined to collude together to defraud the consumer. A logically consistent conservative opposes both the careless welfare given to financially disadvantaged individuals and the corporate classes. Also, the Baby Bells originally benefited from the monopoly status granted to them by the government. They therefore have obligations unlike those corporations that never received such special favors. These truths are readily ignored by many conservatives especially when tempted by the not so subtle bribes offered by the rich corporations. &quot;Al Gore's agenda was clearly,&quot; added Hundt &quot;to promote competition, stimulate investment and innovation, and guarantee social benefits.&quot; Please note the very last item---enbracing this goal did a tremendous amount of harm.<br />Having your heart in the right place is not always a guarantee of splendid results. The author muddled his core message with extraneous pursuits best left off the agenda. Effective politics require a focussing upon the priorities of your limited time in either elected or appointed office. Political capital is expensive and should be cautiously spent. It is wise to sharply distinguish between the direct duties of the state, and the social needs best handled by the myriad mediating structures that underpin a viable social order. The principle of subsidiarity must guide us when deciding whether to grant government further power over us. Hundt and his immediate bosses Bill Clinton and Al Gore are the products of the discredited thinking of the 1960s that advocated paternalistic big government as the ultimate savior of the poorer classes. Hundt's FCC even went so far as to advocate that Internet service providers offer heavily discounted Internet access to schools and libraries. Conveniently overlooked is the harsh fact that such policies frustrate the true goals of companies competing in the free enterprise system while additionally burdening cash strapped ISPs who could ill afford this somewhat disingenuous form of taxation. The Libertarian Cato Institute at times indulges in extremist rhetoric. But in this instance, it sensibly argues that the poor will inevitably earn access to today's technologies just as they earlier acquired radios, automobiles, and televisions. Expensive government welfare programs have a history of doing more harm than good.<br />Unhappily, the Baby Bells were able to persuade the powers that be in Washington, D.C. to inadvertently permit them to sabotage their new competitors. Essentially the latter were thrown into battle with one hand tied behind their back. The allegations are numerous concerning the mischief caused by the giant incumbent telecoms. These bullies are sometimes fined, but the penalty is never more than a mild slap on the wrist. This ultimately only encourages these behemoths to run rough shod over both their customers and weaker competitors. Even well educated and affluent consumers often find themselves powerless to challenge the abuses of the Baby Bells. Reed Hundt has an interesting story to tell. Some people charge Hundt with name dropping, but I merely sense a candid description of the author's everyday normal existence. I recommend &quot;You Say You Want a Revolution.&quot; There are admittedly some weaknesses, but Hundt still earns four stars.ill earns four stars.	2001-07-30
US	52940618	R24G8S07LKJXGG	1586480405	585261139	Free Flight: From Airline Hell to a New Age of Travel	Books	5	10	13	N	Y	&quot;Free Flight&quot; Highlights an Important Travel Alternative	The respected commentator James Fallows resolved his mid-life crisis by learning to pilot small airplanes. He now embraces the true faith that holds there little else in  life comparable to experiencing the visual romance of flying one's own aircraft. Fallows, though, does not wish to merely preach to the choir. He also hopes that &quot;Free  Flight&quot; is a tipping point phenomenon facilitating the conversion of the modestly affluent to both the thrill and pragmatic benefits of this form of travel. The odds are overwhelmingly probable that this will eventually be the case. Nevertheless, it would be better if this occurs sooner than later. Fallows cites evidence indicating that in the early part of this century a traveler might as well drive a distance less than 500 miles. Conventional air travel does little to speed up the process.<br />Fallows is well aware that the general public often perceives smaller aircraft as nothing more than death traps. Furthermore, other professional journalists don't help matters when they usually mention these planes only after crashes involving the rich and famous. The author therefore feels compelled to devote a whole chapter to the Cirrus SR20 aircraft which includes as a standard accessory, not just a parachute for each passenger, but for the whole plane! A picture of this remarkable airplane is prominently displayed on the front cover. The founders of Cirrus Design, Alan and Dale Klapmeier, endured some flack from many within the true believer pilot community. The latter zealots are alarmed by the more mainstream enthusiasts invading their turf who place a higher value on safety--especially when it involves their immediate family members. Throughout the history of most innovations, the influence of the established &quot;nerds&quot; must inevitably be marginalized. The common folk opt for new disruptive technologies only if a minimal degree of user friendliness, aggressive pricing, and reasonable safety have been achieved. Fallows also introduces us to Eclipse Aviation. Sam Williams is one the top executives of this pioneering business entity. The James Bond film &quot;Thunderball&quot; featured his personal jetback transporting invention. However, the lack of an airplane parachute on their models is a turn off for me. It seems that Fallow's wife Deborah and son Tad think the same way. The author ultimately convinced them to join him on a cross country journey, but they hesitated until reassured over a period of several years by his comforting &quot;descriptions of the 'plane with the parachute.'&quot;<br />The blurb on the jacket by the well known Internet guru Esther Dyson touches upon the &quot;Free Flight&quot; evolving business models. She remarks that &quot;this book makes you want to go out and put down a deposit on one of the new aircraft.&quot; But is Dyson likely to spend her money and precious time in this manner? While I entertain doubts about her actually going this far, Dyson will almost certainly seriously consider this alternative for her own future travel arrangements. The latter scenario should be the focus for the entrepreneurs and investors about to jump aboard this bandwagon.<br />Is Fallow's new book an exercise in presenting a new opportunity of displaying conspicuous consumption? Should the majority of citizens even care about this subject? After all, small airplane travel will still remain far beyond the financial wherewithal of most people. The answer is adamantly in the affirmative. Those inclined towards class warfare egalitarianism fail to comprehend the overwhelming evidence that trickle down economic activity improves the lives of everyone. The masses indirectly also come out ahead when those in the higher income brackets are able to use their time more productively. Wouldn't you, for instance, feel more relieved knowing that a surgeon was well rested before proceeding with the operation to save your life? I suspect that the wider acceptance of smaller aircraft could alleviate air traffic congestion by at least 5-10%. This admittedly is not as important as the needed public debate to take to task those hypocritical citizens who refuse to consider the building of a new airport in their own proverbial backyard. Nonetheless, Fallows is right on target in asserting that this disruptive technological breakthrough is of major significance. &quot;Free Flight&quot; deserves our genuine interest.	2001-07-08
US	52940618	RH6QP3R515OBW	0070506000	41208413	Warlords of Crime: Chinese Secret Societies--The New Mafia	Books	4	10	11	N	N	What Does Gerald Posner Think 13 Years Later?	The superb and meticulously honest journalist Gerald Posner wrote the &quot;Warlords of Crime&quot; back in 1988. The project took place during a more naive era when many including myself thought the drug war might be winnable. Posner takes us on a journey to learn about the drug warlords of Chinese heritage. These ruthless outlaws carry out their nefarious activities throughout the world. They have no hesitation in either bribing or murdering their fellow human beings. Life is looked upon as an inexpensive commodity in a culture that traditionally values the collective over the individual. Most are members of criminal organizations going back hundreds of years. A warped sense of family values underpin their organizational structure. Enduring long prison sentence for the sake of the clan is regarded as a proud duty. Delayed gratification and self discipline are virtues taken for granted. Mere physical courage alone is not deemed sufficient for advancement. Superb management skills and patience are instead mandatorily required for those hoping to be promoted to the top echelons of leadership.<br />Posner finds that some of the police officers who have sold out to the warlords often have the best arrest records. It turns out that the warlords do everything to help their partners in law enforcement to publicly look good as possible. Even allowing some of their less esteemed comrades to be arrested is accepted as a price to be willingly paid. The risks are high and rewards mostly nonexistent for lawmen poorly paid and commonly despised. The Oriental culture often does not perceive policemen as professionals deserving of honor. On the contrary, only the so called economic losers usually apply for police training. Needless to add, many of those choosing this line of work do so for corrupt reasons. It should be added that policemen at the turn of the twentieth century in the United States were also thought to be jerks and too lazy to do anything else. Warm respect for police officers is far more prevalent in countries actively encouraging political and cultural equality of the masses. Unfortunately, just like governments in Central and South America desperately trying to evolve towards democratic stability, the Asian nations have the added burden of drug money threatening their fragile political institutions.<br />I have enormous respect for Gerald Posner. Nonetheless, I am compelled to confront him with an awkward and disturbing question. In this book, Posner refers to the routine torture practiced upon suspected Asian drug lawbreakers in their respective homelands. Posner does not condone such police behavior, but neither does he condemn it. One distinctly gets the impression that Posner at least subconsciously accepts this as a price that must be grudgingly accepted if we are to win the war on drugs. What does Posner believe about our current efforts to defeat the drug barons? Should we, as I strongly advocate, host the white flag of surrender? Posner thinks the legalization of drugs would likely entice some people to experiment with drugs that might otherwise continue to shun such self destructive behavior. I have no reason to disagree with Posner on this point. That is indeed what occurred when the USA ended its national prohibition of alcohol. Almost certainly this phenomenon will be repeated if we also legalize drugs. Nonetheless, do we not have larger concerns demanding our attention? Should we continue to jeopardize the civil liberties and safety of all citizens to protect the few who may be seduced into a life of low self esteem and existential wastefulness? Illicit drugs are ridiculously low in price and virtually available in most areas of the United States. Have I perhaps overlooked a more recent appraisal of the drug war by Gerald Posner? Has he thoroughly thought about this matter since 1988? If not, it's time for the author to revisit the issues surrounding the &quot;Warlords of Crime.&quot;ce officers is far more prevalent in countries actively encouraging political and cultural equality of the masses. Unfortunately, just like governments in Central and South America desperately trying to evolve towards democratic stability, the Asian nations have the added burden of drug money threatening their fragile political institutions.<br />I have enormous respect for Gerald Posner. Nonetheless, I am compelled to confront him with an awkward and disturbing question. In this book, Posner refers to the routine torture practiced upon suspected Asian drug lawbreakers in their respective homelands. Posner does not condone such police behavior, but neither does he condemn it. One distinctly gets the impression that Posner at least subconsciously accepts this as a price that must be grudgingly accepted if we are to win the war on drugs. What does Posner believe about our current efforts to defeat the drug barons? Should we, as I strongly advocate, host the white flag of surrender? Posner thinks the legalization of drugs would likely entice some people to experiment with drugs that might otherwise continue to shun such self destructive behavior. I have no reason to disagree with Posner on this point. That is indeed what occurred when the USA ended its national prohibition of alcohol. Almost certainly this phenomenon will be repeated if we also legalize drugs. Nonetheless, do we not have larger concerns demanding our attention? Should we continue to jeopardize the civil liberties and safety of all citizens to protect the few who may be seduced into a life of low self esteem and existential wastefulness? Illicit drugs are ridiculously low in price and virtually available in most areas of the United States. Have I perhaps overlooked a more recent appraisal of the drug war by Gerald Posner? Has he thoroughly thought about this matter since 1988? If not, it's time for the author to revisit the issues surrounding the &quot;Warlords of Crime.&quot;	2001-06-17
US	52940618	RUQJFL7G2KHRN	0805062394	379226291	Blowback: The Costs and Consequences of American Empire (American Empire Project)	Books	3	14	29	N	N	Isolationism is not a Viable Option for the United States	Chalmers Johnson's isolationist ideology hinders his ability to comprehend the unavoidable responsibilities thrust upon the United States. In a perfect universe super power nations should be able to embrace the concept that essentially the rest of the world can be ignored. Unfortunately, abstract speculations arguing that the troubles of other countries are not ours sound reasonable until the gun is pointed at our head. It is perhaps analogous to the hypothetical family living next door whose kids play in the backyard with real machine guns. The problem is not directly our own except for the irritating possibility that the spray bullets may pierce the walls of the house. Other peoples difficulties indeed shouldn't be laid at our doorstep. Alas, life is not always fair, and Johnson needs to accept this irritating fact.<br />The quintessential historical example contradicting Johnson's central theme may very well be World War II. The &quot;America First&quot; isolationists which included Rev. Charles E. Coughlin and Charles Lindbergh staunchly contended that the United States shouldn't get involved in the troubles of Europe resulting from Hitler's saber rattling. A somewhat Pacifist mindset pervaded our politics and culture. The evidence is now overwhelming that Hitler's military threat could have likely been nipped in the bud. Chalmers seems to imply that Red China's leaders are basically decent and only the alleged belligerence of our nation's elected officials discourage them from becoming full fledged civil libertarians. There simply is no justification for such an opinion.<br />Perceived weaknesses encourage those intent on harming us.  The formulation of both carrot and stick policies is mandatory.  Only hind sight allows perfect 20/20 vision, and therefore mistakes will occur. Chalmers is not incorrect to remind us of our past errors. After all, this is the best way to prevent making the same blunders in the future. Why, though, does he ignore our successes? I have many complaints about the previous Clinton administration. Nevertheless, Bill Clinton should be congratulated for many of his decisions pertaining to the crisis in the Balkans. Many lives were saved, and the horror did not expand into the rest of Western Europe and the former Soviet republics.<br />An inadvertent &quot;stop the world, I want to get off&quot; attitude, is not in the least bit helpful. Isolationism may have been a legitimate alternative a few centuries ago. It took weeks to travel over the oceans, and much of the world had little impact whatsoever on the everyday life of America's citizens. Today our planet has been aptly described by the late Marshall McLuhan as increasingly evolving towards something akin to a small village. We can email someone in another country within seconds, and a airplane trip to remote areas of our globe is now a relatively minor event. I will not question the well meaning intentions of Pat Buchanan and Chalmers Johnson, but their isolationists views would be catastrophic if ever taken seriously.have many complaints about the previous Clinton administration. Nevertheless, Bill Clinton should be congratulated for many of his decisions pertaining to the crisis in the Balkans. Many lives were saved, and the horror did not expand into the rest of Western Europe and the former Soviet republics.<br />An inadvertent &quot;stop the world, I want to get off&quot; attitude, is not in the least bit helpful. Isolationism may have been a legitimate alternative a few centuries ago. It took weeks to travel over the oceans, and much of the world had little impact whatsoever on the everyday life of America's citizens. Today our planet has been aptly described by the late Marshall McLuhan as increasingly evolving towards something akin to a small village. We can email someone in another country within seconds, and a airplane trip to remote areas of our globe is now a relatively minor event. I will not question the well meaning intentions of Pat Buchanan and Chalmers Johnson, but their isolationists views would be catastrophic if ever taken seriously.	2001-06-03
US	52940618	R1TD8HXMJ3BO49	0345440331	920633675	Why God Won't Go Away: Brain Science and the Biology of Belief	Books	4	11	19	N	N	Empirical Methods Prove Nothing Concerning the Supernatural	The authors valiantly attempted the impossible and were doomed to fail. Their central argument intrinsically had no chance of ultimately satisfying either the religious believer nor the village atheist. Both will finish &quot;Why God Won't Go Away&quot; and remain steadfast in their convictions. I am of the former persuasion but conceded long ago that God is totally Other. Many Judeo-Christians adherents recommending this book seem unaware that their theological tenets contradict the possibility of proving the existence of God and the Supernatural via empirical methods. Thomas Aquinas taught that the human individual on this side of the grave can reach the Divine only through faith. The Dominican scholar strongly argued that reason is of great value in ascertaining the reality of the universe created by God, but the Lord Jehovah remains hidden from our sight. St. Augustine for the most part shunned the hard sciences. Instead, the earlier Church theologian premised his insights upon the existential needs of all human beings to find meaning in a cold and uncaring universe. The dilemma remains forevermore because the possible dimension of the Supernatural cannot be verified with any degree of certainty by our five senses.<br />The studies referred to in this book prove nothing. In many respects, the authors seem more in tune with New Age ideology than traditional theologies. Learning more about both how the brain responds to near death and alleged mystical experiences merely increases our intellectual frustration. Karl Popper warns us that our widely held theories are often tentative, and may be contradicted by new facts in the future. Paradoxically, we become humbler as our knowledge increases. The sophisticated inhabitants of the 21st Century laugh at the naivet&eacute; of the ancient Egyptians for their peculiar explanations of the body's internal organs. During the process of mummification, the embalmers threw the brain away perceiving it of no significance whatsoever. Alas, it is intellectually arrogant to believe that our modern day speculations are significantly better.<br />Should one therefore conclude that this book is a waste of time? Of course not. Andrew Newberg and the Eugene D'Aquili are highly trained medical practitioners. Their area of expertise allows them to minutely study the physical aspects of human brain activity. Such study is to be encouraged. It is of mandatory necessity in treating various brain diseases, and aids us in learning how to overcome mental exhaustion and trauma. The authors indirectly address the false dichotomy between mind and body which has inhibited our research since the time of Rene Descartes. More recently, the inane nostrums of the Logical Positivists added to our confusion. &quot;Why God Won't Go Away&quot; merely needs to be taken with a huge grain of salt. I still give it 4 stars.las, it is intellectually arrogant to believe that our modern day speculations are significantly better.<br />Should one therefore conclude that this book is a waste of time? Of course not. Andrew Newberg and the Eugene D'Aquili are highly trained medical practitioners. Their area of expertise allows them to minutely study the physical aspects of human brain activity. Such study is to be encouraged. It is of mandatory necessity in treating various brain diseases, and aids us in learning how to overcome mental exhaustion and trauma. The authors indirectly address the false dichotomy between mind and body which has inhibited our research since the time of Rene Descartes. More recently, the inane nostrums of the Logical Positivists added to our confusion. &quot;Why God Won't Go Away&quot; merely needs to be taken with a huge grain of salt. I still give it 4 stars.	2001-05-20
US	52940618	R2J2TY9CKWRCAK	0895262274	620354319	At Any Cost: How Al Gore Tried to Steal the Election	Books	4	8	20	N	Y	Al Gore, Have You No Shame?	Bill Sammon originally had serious reservations about titling this book in such an inflammatory manner.  The publisher was comfortable with the rhetoric of morally charging Al Gore with trying to steal the election, but the author remained somewhat hesitant.  It was only at the tail end of the process when Sammon realized that Regnery Publishing, Inc. was right on target.  Reading Sammon's thorough work, I was reminded of Joseph Welch's 1954 question to the disgraced Joseph McCarthy: &quot;Senator, have you no shame?&quot;  Al Gore owes this  nation an apology for pushing it towards a constitutional crisis. He was an apt pupil of his former boss Bill Clinton.  The latter would stop at virtually nothing to achieve victory.  One can cynically compare Clinton's lessons to an older brother teaching the younger how to mug old ladies and steal cars.<br />It is virtually certain that Al Gore would have won Florida's electoral votes if many of those supporting him had intelligently cast their vote. More citizens indeed did intend to vote for the Vice President than the Governor of Texas.  Nonetheless, a viable democracy rightfully only counts votes legally cast.  It mandates that voters clearly indicate their choices, and forbids mind reading.  Political correctness inhibited otherwise intelligent observers from admitting that this whole episode was primarily due to the harsh fact that many minority voters are marginally to functionally illiterate.  The so called butterfly ballot actually had little to do with the confusion of these people.  A serious reading disability precludes the possibility of voting accurately.  Am I pandering to the racist mindset? No, on the contrary, it is both  condescending and truly racist to hold minority Americans to a lower standard of conduct. Feeling sorry for others inadvertently denies them their hard earned dignity.  These citizens need to be educated, not looked down upon. Also, does anyone really think that Jesse Jackson would have  demanded the votes of affluent white Republicans to be counted if they committed similar errors?  Would you hold your breath waiting for  this to happen?<br />The fiendish schemes concocted by Gore's backers to steal the election are of the jaw dropping variety.  Sammon goes into meticulous detail on how Gore's lawyers and political hacks indulged in legalistic nitpicking to void the votes of our military personnel.  The Bush people refused to play this despicable game and even went out of their way to insure the counting of Democrat military ballots.  One should never drink alcoholic beverages while driving an automobile.  Drinking while reading this book is likewise discouraged.  The other examples and situations depicted in &quot;At Any cost&quot; are guaranteed to make any honorable person's blood boil.<br />Some Liberal Democrats are currently upset that Gore shies away from public exposure.  Could the reason, though, be due to Gore's conscience bothering him?  George W. Bush's common decency would never have allowed him to persevere in such a fashion.  The better man ultimately became our nation's President.  Thank God that in this less than perfect world that justice sometimes prevails.  &quot;At Any Cost&quot; is a book demanding a place on your bookshelf.  It is wise to forevermore occasionally peruse its pages to recall how close we came to a disaster.manded the votes of affluent white Republicans to be counted if they committed similar errors?   Would you hold your breath waiting for  this to happen?<br />The fiendish schemes concocted by Gore's backers to steal the election are of the jaw dropping variety.  Sammon goes into meticulous detail on how Gore's lawyers and political hacks indulged in legalistic nitpicking to void the votes of our military personnel.  The Bush people refused to play this despicable game and even went out of their way to insure the counting of Democrat military ballots.   One should never drink alcoholic beverages while driving an automobile.  Drinking while reading this book is likewise discouraged.  The other examples and situations depicted in &quot;At Any cost&quot; are guaranteed to make any honorable person's blood boil.<br />Some Liberal Democrats are currently upset that Gore shies away from public exposure.  Could the reason, though, be due to Gore's conscience bothering him?  George W. Bush's common decency would never have allowed him to persevere in such a fashion.  The better man ultimately became our nation's President.  Thank God that in this less than perfect world that justice sometimes prevails.  &quot;At Any Cost&quot; is a book demanding a place on your bookshelf.  It is wise to forevermore occasionally peruse its pages to recall how close we came to a disaster.	2001-05-15
US	52940618	R3A37UZC2F3WP2	1854797549	129854128	The History of Farting	Books	5	12	16	N	N	Dr. Benjamin Bart's Brilliant Study on Farting	The world owes much to Dr. Benjamin Bart.  How did we survive before he put together this profound historical work?  Has anybody  nominated Dr. Bart for a Nobel prize?  He deserves at least a Pulitzer. There are rumors that the good doctor earnestly began  his inquiries into the art and possible health benefits of farting sometime during the early years of his childhood.  Some claim that little  Benjamin was nicknamed &quot;Bart the Fart.&quot;  I think there was something about this in the &quot;National Enquirer,&quot; but unfortunately I forgot the  exact date of that most important issue.<br />Dr. Bart believes that there is right way and a wrong way to fart.  He tells us how the smart people perform this most human of tasks.  I bet  the reader was unaware that the famous philosopher Rene Descartes supposedly asked &quot;Since I think--I exist, but what does it mean when I  fart?&quot; Ah, the education one can obtain outside the walls of a university.  Did your philosophy professor have a clue concerning the  more esoteric aspects of Descartes' philosophical insights?  There are many other flatulent examples that should broaden your intellectual  horizons.<br />&quot;The History of Farting&quot; even has some pictures to help one's illiterate cohorts.  This book thankfully has little to do with either thee or  me.  We would rarely, if ever, do anything like farting.  Should we, however,  embarrass our buddies by presenting them with a gift copy of this  perspicaciously brilliant expose of their less than polite habits?  Of course we should.  After all, what are friends for?	2001-05-05
US	52940618	R3LL8WI83Z5Q5T	0312233442	223937094	Friedrich Hayek: A Biography	Books	5	19	23	N	Y	Friedrich Hayek: A Giant Among the Intellectual Pygmies	Alan Ebenstein is to be congratulated for writing a biography of perhaps the most distinguished economic philosopher of the past century. Friedrich Hayek took to task the inane extremes of both the Socialists and anarchical Libertarians. The German born scholar embittered the former for committing the unpardonable offense  of inhibiting their grab for power.  These arrogant intellectuals subtly implied that their statist theories deserved adulation---and yes, inevitably, unhesitating  obedience.  Hayek argued that an increasingly complex society significantly lessens the likelihood of these alleged benevolent and brilliant elitists to productively  manage economic events for the masses.  It is impossible, Hayek added, for a central authority to even begin masterminding the enormous and minutely diverse  judgments required to perform the everyday economic chores of a large community.  The radical Libertarian Ayn Rand despised Hayek and regarded him as an  enemy.  Hayek's writings concerning the mandatory need for laws to underpin all viable societies probably did much to enrage the intellectually immature Rand. She  ideologically refused to accept the empirical evidence that business people are naturally inclined toward avaricious behavior; that the at least metaphorical reality of  Original Sin is alive and well within the human soul of even the most saintly among us.  Hayek had no problem agreeing with the earlier moralist, Adam Smith, who  warned that businessmen innately join together in order to conspire against the consumer.<br />Hayek clearly understood the hopeless dilemma of a statist economy in confronting the issues of pricing.  Only the essentially &quot;invisible hand&quot; free decision making  of individual buyers and sellers is capable of realistically pricing goods and services.  One doesn't need to completely agree with all of Sigmund Freud's views to  concede the extraordinary influence the subconscious has upon our overall thinking processes. Rarely do individuals spend a lot time and effort when purchasing an  item such as a candy bar. Usually this is an impulsive buying decision comprising a fraction of a second. Even more significant purchases like an automobile or a  house involve motivations that are hidden from our conscious mind.  Thus, only we are able to somewhat haphazardly conclude on what constitutes an acceptable price regarding our own particular economic  transactions.<br />Democratic Capitalism deserves two cheers, and not three.  It does not promise a utopian world.  On the contrary, to paraphrase Winston Churchill, this most most  efficient and beneficial economic system is brutish, awful, and sometimes downright disgusting, but it far surpasses any other economic system in human history.  You owe it to yourself to learn more about Friedrich Hayek,  a giant of a man who so profoundly influenced our world for the better. Ebenstein's book is a great place  to start.rely do individuals spend a lot time and effort when purchasing an  item such as a candy bar. Usually this is an impulsive buying decision comprising a fraction of a second. Even more significant purchases like an automobile or a  house involve motivations that are hidden from our conscious mind.  Thus, only we are able to somewhat haphazardly conclude on what constitutes an acceptable price regarding our own particular economic  transactions.<br />Democratic Capitalism deserves two cheers, and not three.  It does not promise a utopian world.  On the contrary, to paraphrase Winston Churchill, this most most  efficient and beneficial economic system is brutish, awful, and sometimes downright disgusting, but it far surpasses any other economic system in human history.   You owe it to yourself to learn more about Friedrich Hayek,  a giant of a man who so profoundly influenced our world for the better. Ebenstein's book is a great place  to start.	2001-05-03
US	52940618	RPMWDYIYK6TXB	0688171559	330344806	Destined to Witness: Growing Up Black in Nazi Germany	Books	5	5	7	N	N	The Story of a Most Extraordinary and Courageous Life	I was immediately taken aback by the picture on the front cover displaying a proud little black boy incongruously wearing a sweater decorated with a Nazi Swastika. Hans Massaquoi' s autobiography will take you into another world that most likely significantly differs from your own. I am somewhat knowledgeable about the Nazi period, but never previously considered the possibility of black people living out any sort of existence in the Germany of Adolph Hitler.  A &quot;Saturday Night  Live&quot; comedy skit might be created, but in real life? The author begins with his boyhood in the post World War I Weimar Republic as the &quot;mischling&quot; child of a  German white mother and a Liberian black man. Hans was in many ways a typical middle class German lad who embraced the customs and prejudices of his  surrounding social milieu. He is told, for instance, by his baby-sitter to be fearful of gypsies who she regarded as both foreign and diabolical. They steal little children  for their &quot;fresh blood,&quot; she added. Macaque's own skin color wasn't much of an issue in his early years. The pure Aryan children initially made fun of him, but for the  most part Hans was grudgingly accepted. The Nazi principal of his grade school warns the total student body to beware of Jews and others of non Germanic origins. The second grader is instantly converted to the cause of Nazism until informed that he is one of those perceived as the enemy of the German people!<br />Massaquoi's trials and tribulation during this awful era are often humorous. I was often reminded of Joseph Heller's --Catch 22-- while reading about how the now adolescent youth deals with his budding sexuality and existential need to belong.  Hans even goes out of his way to apply for membership in the Nazi military. He's not only turned down, but the rejection is done in a most rude and insulting manner. Only at the very end of the war when Germany's defeat was certain did the authorities demand that Massaquoi report to duty. This is precisely what occurred at the tail end of the American Civil War when President Jefferson Davis likewise mandated military service of the black freemen and slaves of the Confederacy. Racists throughout the world often look down upon their despised fellow countrymen until an emergency situation pragmatically compels them to abandon their cherished dogmas.<br />The author acknowledges that the evil of racism and claims is not merely limited to those of caucasian skin pigmentation. Massaquoi is told by his own father that so called lower class black people are not due respect and dignity. Eventually he becomes an American citizen and managing editor of &quot;Ebony&quot; magazine. The United States is far from perfect, and one wonders if the author didn't jump out of the pan and into the fire. We bragged about being the land of the free, but Massaquoi soon realized that black men lived a second class citizenship in his new homeland. I regret that Massaquoi didn't spend more time delving into the racial dilemma of modern day American. Is the author an ideological Liberal, or a neo-Conservative as I am? Does he feel more comfortable with Jessie Jackson's rhetoric, or is Glenn Loury more representative of his thinking? Perhaps Hans Massaquoi can be encouraged to write another book focussing on these controversial issues. --Destined To Witness--, though, splendidly assist us to further understand the insanity of unjust discrimination. This book is a must for anyone desiring to know what it's like to overcome unusual and frightening obstacles.report to duty. This is precisely what occurred at the tail end of the American Civil War when President Jefferson Davis likewise mandated military service of the black freemen and slaves of the Confederacy. Racists throughout the world often look down upon their despised fellow countrymen until an emergency situation pragmatically compels them to abandon their cherished dogmas.<br />The author acknowledges that the evil of racism and claims is not merely limited to those of caucasian skin pigmentation. Massaquoi is told by his own father that so called lower class black people are not due respect and dignity. Eventually he becomes an American citizen and managing editor of &quot;Ebony&quot; magazine. The United States is far from perfect, and one wonders if the author didn't jump out of the pan and into the fire. We bragged about being the land of the free, but Massaquoi soon realized that black men lived a second class citizenship in his new homeland. I regret that Massaquoi didn't spend more time delving into the racial dilemma of modern day American. Is the author an ideological Liberal, or a neo-Conservative as I am? Does he feel more comfortable with Jessie Jackson's rhetoric, or is Glenn Loury more representative of his thinking? Perhaps Hans Massaquoi can be encouraged to write another book focussing on these controversial issues. --Destined To Witness--, though, splendidly assist us to further understand the insanity of unjust discrimination. This book is a must for anyone desiring to know what it's like to overcome unusual and frightening obstacles.	2001-04-14
US	52940618	R2LNOG9YBEDDFL	0691070458	273795736	Unfree Speech: The Folly of Campaign Finance Reform	Books	5	7	9	N	Y	Unintended Consequences Should Not be Overlooked	I sense that Bradley Smith underestimates the problem of mammoth campaign contributions by wealthy individuals and organizations. Many citizens like myself are uneasy when money seems to play an unjustifiable role in the political arena. Nonetheless, the author presents us with a compelling argument that current campaign reform initiatives such as the McCain-Feingold bill  will likely cause more harm than good.  &quot;Congress shall make no law abridging freedom of speech,&quot; is interpreted by many people in  a very absolutist manner; the word &quot;no&quot; is suppose to mean exactly that, and it is not a negotiable starting point.  Smith cherishes this  principle but goes one step further and clearly points out the practical consequences likely if this constitutional dogma is ignored.  The devil  is in the details, and we are forced to ask who is going to decide what constitutes legitimate funding of present day political matters?  Do Americans  truly wish to leave this task to even the most honest and benevolent members of the U.S. Congress?  Smith believes that inevitably,  human nature being what it is, the Congressional incumbents will enact rules favoring their own reelections.  Can anybody logical dispute  this overwhelming probability?  The Founding  Fathers rightfully embraced a pessimistic notion of human nature. After all, the at least metaphorical reality of Original Sin is still alive and well on planet earth.<br />  The concept of unintended consequences is very relevant.  Almost certainly, any new law passed by Congress will  be subjected to meticulous examination by those desiring to minimally obey the letter of the law while violating its spirit.  Rules must not be  &quot;broken,&quot; but they are to be be stretched and manhandled to the utmost.  Any misplaced comma, an &quot;i&quot; not dotted, or a &quot;t&quot; not  crossed, will be an excuse to make fools of the original intentions of the bill's formulators.  Do we really want more complexity in our  political affairs?  Also, a cynic should be concerned with any legislation providing new opportunities for attorneys to earn money.  I will, though, add  a strong suggestion overlooked by the author: the mandatory need to guilt trip our fellow American voters!  Rarely, if ever, does anyone  mention that this debate would not even be occurring if most adults increased their political awareness by investing a few more minutes a  day in keeping up with the issues. Please note, that I said minutes, and not hours.  Citizens are not victims, and should not be treated as  such.  Bradley Smith has performed a valuable service.  He has converted me over to his way of thinking. You might also raise the white flag of surrender. I adamantly urge the reader to obtain a copy of --Unfree Speech.--ity in our  political affairs?  Also, a cynic should be concerned with any legislation providing new opportunities for attorneys to earn money.  I will, though, add  a strong suggestion overlooked by the author: the mandatory need to guilt trip our fellow American voters!  Rarely, if ever, does anyone  mention that this debate would not even be occurring if most adults increased their political awareness by investing a few more minutes a  day in keeping up with the issues. Please note, that I said minutes, and not hours.  Citizens are not victims, and should not be treated as  such.  Bradley Smith has performed a valuable service.  He has converted me over to his way of thinking. You might also raise the white flag of surrender. I adamantly urge the reader to obtain a copy of --Unfree Speech.--	2001-04-11
US	52940618	R1CXSKUW34NH72	0140296271	928300055	Hitler's Pope: The Secret History of Pius XII	Books	4	22	37	N	N	Pius XII was not Hitler's Pope, but...	One must remember that the publisher and not the author usually picks a book's title.  The choice of --Hitler's Pope-- for this particular work  leaves much to be desired.  It implies that Pope Pius XII had to explicitly align himself with Hitler in order to do incredible harm to Europe's  Jews.  On the contrary, John Cornwell believes that traditionalist Catholic theology perceiving Jews as Christ killers resulted in a lessening  concern for these unfortunate victims.  The Jews were only receiving what they truly deserved according to this ultra-conservative Catholic  mindset. Cornwell's thesis is that Pius XII possessed ambivalent feeling towards the Jews.  The Pope should have done more, and failed to do  so because of an inability to transcend the intellectual and psychological formation of his anti-Semitic Catholic training.  It is logical to conclude that Pius XII would inevitably have a difficult time overcoming the pervasive ideology of his milieu.  Almost certainly, the Pope  considered Nazi Germany to be the lesser of evils compared to Communist Russia.  The Nazis were the enemy of the Church's foremost  enemy and thus a certain degree of compromise and working relationship seemed desirable.<br />Many also conveniently ignore Cornwell's overwhelming evidence that the Pope was a racist. Pius XII himself requested that  the U.S. military authorities not allow Afro-American soldiers into Rome because they might rape white Italian women.  Moreover, even the  Vatican spokesman Jesuit Peter Gimpel conceded this point to Ed Bradley of the &quot;Sixty Minutes&quot; TV news program.<br />Why should a fair minded person find the central theme of --Hitler's Pope-- so hard to believe?  Pope Pius XII, in many respects, was merely  a creature of his era.  Past Catholic hostility towards the Jews is a solidly established fact.  The Nazis were admittedly an atheistic movement,  but their vociferous anti-Semitism did not come out of a vacuum.  It is absurd to argue that such anti-Semitic theological contempt did not  contribute greatly to the holocaust. I have no problem in highly recommending Cornwell's book.ch anti-Semitic theological contempt did not  contribute greatly to the holocaust. I have no problem in highly recommending Cornwell's book.	2001-04-09
US	52940618	RULM2UOHJBXK1	0691086672	96072010	Neighbors: The Destruction of the Jewish Community in Jedwabne, Poland	Books	5	27	60	N	Y	The at Least Metaphorical Reality of Original Sin	The case presented by Jan Gross concerning the massacre of Jewish citizens by their Catholic neighbors seems very sound.  Anti-semitism pervaded the Catholic theology of that era.  Jews were perceived as Christ killers, members of an alien culture desiring to  destroy Christianity.  Catholic parents even frightened their children with threats of Jewish harm if they misbehaved.  A fragile social truce is all  that ever protected the Jews throughout much of Europe.  Poland already had a well established history of Jewish persecution.  The Nazi  invasion of Poland in many respects merely acted as a  catalyst to put this particular tragic event into motion.  Gross cites the late  philosopher Eric Vogelin's insight that in such circumstances it takes little to release the diabolical tendencies of &quot;the simple man, who is a  decent man as long as the society as a whole is in order but who then goes wild, without knowing what he is doing, when disorder arises  somewhere and the society is no longer holding together.&quot;  Also, there is little doubt but that greed played a significant role.  The social  upheaval of World War II provided ample opportunities for those previously tempted to steal the land and valuables of their Jewish  neighbors.<br />Gross is regrettably not addressing an atypical phenomenon. Just recently in the Balkans similar horror stories have come to  light.  The friends of yesterday readily become torturers and murderers virtually overnight. Countless times in history the larger community of neighbors have inflicted hell on earth on the despised minorities within their midst.  Furthermore, this is the norm in human affairs and not the exception!  The at least metaphorical reality of Original Sin underpins the human  condition.  Only the very thin veneer of civilization separates the savage beast within all of us.  The need to conquer our basic instincts is a  never ending battle.  --Neighbors-- highlights the inevitable nightmare resulting from a failure of some individuals to exercise such self  discipline.  Roman Catholics and all other members of ultra-conservative Christian traditions must cease indulging in self deception.  Pointing  to the few of their own who courageously befriended Jews during the holocaust does not eradicate the evil of so many others.  These  Christian traditions encouraged hatred of the Jews and must be held responsible.  Pope John Paul II issued an apology a few years ago, but  more still needs to be done.  I unhesitatingly recommend Jan Gross' disturbing work.  --Neighbors-- is a relatively short book that will  probably not be put down until you read it from cover to cover.a failure of some individuals to exercise such self  discipline.  Roman Catholics and all other members of ultra-conservative Christian traditions must cease indulging in self deception.  Pointing  to the few of their own who courageously befriended Jews during the holocaust does not eradicate the evil of so many others.  These  Christian traditions encouraged hatred of the Jews and must be held responsible.  Pope John Paul II issued an apology a few years ago, but  more still needs to be done.  I unhesitatingly recommend Jan Gross' disturbing work.  --Neighbors-- is a relatively short book that will  probably not be put down until you read it from cover to cover.	2001-04-06
US	52940618	R2OKVJO2NPSRIS	0520205987	582937076	Drug War Politics: The Price of Denial	Books	5	7	7	N	Y	Our Nation's Drug War Nightmare	This five year old book is regrettably as relevant as if put together yesterday. The authors deplore the use of mind altering drugs.  Eva Bertram and her cohorts,  however, are &quot;troubled by a common pattern in public policy: the persistence of unworkable (criminal justice) policies in the face of overwhelming evidence of their failure...It seemed to be conventional wisdom that the reason force had not worked was not that enough had been applied and that the logical response, therefore, was escalation--not reevaluation.&quot;<br />The vice of political correctness is not limited those of a more Liberal temperament. William F. Buckley is cited as one of the few high profile conservatives willing to publicly challenge the Republican status quo. Politically powerful conservatives relish in &quot;viciously attacking and demeaning critics and sidelining pragmatic alternatives. Less zealous conservatives and liberals, many of whom are skeptics or closet critics, have been willing to go along or have chosen to remain silent,&quot; add the authors. Democrats such as President Jimmy Carter attempted to redirect our efforts to treating mind altering drugs as primarily a medical problem. The ensuing tidal wave of public outrage severely threatened his political power. George W. Bush won the 1994 Texas Governors race in part by successfully attacking Texas Democrat Governor Ann Richards for the latter's &quot;actively pushed diversion-to-treatment and in-prison treatment programs in the early 1990s.&quot;<br />The authors point out that our country has reversed its original relative indifference to the mind altering drugs of choice. Logically it is difficult to distinguish between the harm caused by alcohol, tobacco, marihuana, or cocaine. Heroin, many studies indicate, is far less damaging than alcohol. Another fly in the ointment is  the problem of police corruption. Edgar J. Hoover was hesitant to involve the FBI for this very reason. &quot;The logic of the drug war creates enormous pressures,&quot; the writers also reveal &quot;to circumvent or transgress...constitutional rights.&quot; The Catch 22 circumstances of the drug wars &quot;guarantee that poor and minority residents will be netted by the drug-enforcement system in highly disproportionate numbers.&quot;  Police agencies prefer going after easier convictions to augment their overall numbers---amd if nothing else, people mired in poverty are  easier to send to jail because they rarely obtain first class legal assistance. Is the drug war unwittingly racist?  Would we persist with today's drug war if more  establishment white people filled our jails?  American citizens no longer have the right to ignore these awkward questions.<br />Bertram and her group suggest that it's time we take a serious look at decriminalization.  They realistically concede that a social price will have to be paid. Alcohol abuse decreased during our nation's prohibition era. The numbers went back up sharply after legalization.  Some individuals will inevitably experiment with  legally sanctioned drugs. Nonetheless, life is often about trade offs, balancing off the good against the bad. Taking a chance on decriminalization is not a perfect  solution, but likely the lesser of evils. I strongly recommend --Drug War Politics.-- You owe it to yourself to read it thoroughly.  The price of denial is indeed too high.tes enormous pressures,&quot; the writers also reveal &quot;to circumvent or transgress...constitutional rights.&quot; The Catch 22 circumstances of the drug wars &quot;guarantee that poor and minority residents will be netted by the drug-enforcement system in highly disproportionate numbers.&quot;   Police agencies prefer going after easier convictions to augment their overall numbers---amd if nothing else, people mired in poverty are  easier to send to jail because they rarely obtain first class legal assistance. Is the drug war unwittingly racist?  Would we persist with today's drug war if more  establishment white people filled our jails?  American citizens no longer have the right to ignore these awkward questions.<br />Bertram and her group suggest that it's time we take a serious look at decriminalization.  They realistically concede that a social price will have to be paid. Alcohol abuse decreased during our nation's prohibition era. The numbers went back up sharply after legalization.   Some individuals will inevitably experiment with  legally sanctioned drugs. Nonetheless, life is often about trade offs, balancing off the good against the bad. Taking a chance on decriminalization is not a perfect  solution, but likely the lesser of evils. I strongly recommend --Drug War Politics.-- You owe it to yourself to read it thoroughly.  The price of denial is indeed too high.	2001-04-04
US	52940618	R12Z95496RQK08	0525945725	626475978	The Darwin Awards: Evolution in Action	Books	4	3	6	N	N	Wendy Northcutt is Not Politically Correct, But...	I occasionally visit the politically incorrect website... This is one of my guilty pleasures that perhaps opens me up to blackmail.  Wendy  Northcutt does not claim to possess divine powers. She can only do so much to discourage others from lapsing into self destructive behavior.  Northcutt has limited herself to putting  together some of the best examples of those individuals who have amply earned a prestigious Darwin award. My favorite is &quot;Ronald&quot; who rubbed crazy glue on his  hands and then placed them on the buttocks of a rhinoceros. Needless to add, the zoo animal wasn't too thrilled to have this Bell Curve loser attached to its behind.  What's more, the rhino had just been given a laxative. Do I really need to be more explicit? Regrettably, though, many of Ms. Northcutt's well researched examples  involve the death of the Darwin Award winner. The humiliated and foul smelling Ronald at least lived to see another day.<br />Should we feel uneasy concerning the dark humor exhibited in --The Darwin Awards?-- Isn't there something yucky and cruel in laughing at the plight of these unfortunates? Alas, all humor intrinsically is at someone's expense. Laughter on this planet would immediately cease if we were unable to joke about ourselves. Although a line has to be drawn somewhere, Wendy Northcutt is not violating the minimal norms underpinning our civilized world. This collection of hilarious disasters can even save lives. It might encourage all of us to think twice before doing something comparably stupid. Am I getting too serious? OK, just ignore my existential babbling, and obtain this splendid book because it's downright funny. Also purchase a copy for your friends. If they are anything like mine, they definitely need to read --The Darwin Awards--cover to cover.	2001-03-29
US	52940618	R2O2YI04JILJZU	0743222229	738178942	George W. Bushisms: The Slate Book of Accidental Wit and Wisdom of Our 43rd President	Books	4	13	26	N	N	President Bush is Fair Game, but...	I am an original Slate.com reader of Jacob Weisberg's &quot;Bushisms.&quot; Many of George W. Bush's staunch advocates claim that everybody  occasionally commits verbal gaffes, but this defense is not very convincing. Our current President does seem to trip over his own tongue far  above the norm.<br />Even the office of the Presidency is not a safe haven against just criticism.  No one is above being taken to task for flubbing the English  language in a Democratic culture.  Americans have always relished poking fun at the high and mighty.  Uncritical adulation is not a value  which we should embrace.  A little Egalitarianism is good for our political system.  So go ahead and enjoy Weisberg's collection of President  Bush's misadventures with the English tongue.  However, one should be cautious not to judge our nation's leader merely on this evidence.  There is a long history of people underestimating Dubya. After all, he wasn't suppose to have a chance against Al Gore!  Perhaps George W.  Bush is akin to to the Energizer Bunny---he just keeps ticking.  The man who once asked &quot;Is our children learning?&quot; may yet be vindicated.	2001-03-23
US	52940618	R2YYUFPS4WP05P	0060393408	962636193	The Case Against Hillary Clinton	Books	4	32	54	N	Y	Peggy Noonan is Fair and Balanced Towards Hillary Clinton	Some Liberals have attempted to smear Peggy Noonan as a &quot;Clinton hater&quot; hinting that she is unable to write an objective and honest book concerning Hillary Clinton. On the contrary,  the Republican speech writer may very well have understated the situation. This work was released before the election and Noonan hoped that Mrs. Clinton would fail in her quest for the U.S. Senate seat from New York.  Noonan describes HRC as a woman who enjoys wealth and power.  The need is so great that she has endured betrayal and humiliation by her husband that would have ended most marriages years ago.  Did they ever love each other?  Has the Clinton relationship always been primarily about the acquisition of power?  Noonan cites an incident where an exhausted Bill and Hillary perk up immediately when alerted that an adoring crowd awaits them.  The Presidential couple seem to truly enjoy adulation similar to a drug addict enjoying his latest high.<br />&quot;Mrs. Roosevelt did not think,&quot; adds Ms. Noonan &quot;as they say, that it was all about her.&quot; She distinguishes between the committed self sacrificing Liberalism of Eleanor Roosevelt, and the self indulgent actions of HRC.  Noonan perceives the now Senator Clinton as someone totally absorbed in seeking power for its own sake.  The question whether Hillary has any substantially well though out positions is indeed legitimate.  Mrs. Clinton never engages in vigorous public give and take discussions. Noonan also contrasts the Clinton White House staffers with those of recent Democrat and Republican administrations. The former come across as childishly immature while the latter engaged in dedicated seriousness. The Jimmy Carter Democrat Presidential era, for instance, was always strait laced and adult. She argues the Clintons surround themselves with ruthless and amoral followers who virtually will stop at nothing to do the bidding of their masters.  Even the outrageous behavior of Nixon's top Watergate people pale in comparison.<br />Peggy Noonan even devotes a few pages to the questionable pardons granted by President Clinton to the FALN Puerto Rican terrorists. Many speculated that this was done to increase his wife's election chances in New York.  Was Noonan peering into a crystal ball?  The very recent uproar over &quot;pardongate&quot; has greatly vindicated her conclusions regarding this dysfunctional political family.<br />Hillary Clinton will now have power for the next six years.  Have individuals such as Noonan blinded themselves to Senator Clinton's virtues and talents?  Are they prematurely writing her political obituary?  Peggy Noonan is so far winning her case against Hillary Clinton.  The current New York Senator, though, has a splendid opportunity to prove her wrong.  However, my bets are on Noonan. Leopards rarely change their spots.e in comparison.<br />Peggy Noonan even devotes a few pages to the questionable pardons granted by President Clinton to the FALN Puerto Rican terrorists. Many speculated that this was done to increase his wife's election chances in New York.  Was Noonan peering into a crystal ball?  The very recent uproar over &quot;pardongate&quot; has greatly vindicated her conclusions regarding this dysfunctional political family.<br />Hillary Clinton will now have power for the next six years.  Have individuals such as Noonan blinded themselves to Senator Clinton's virtues and talents?  Are they prematurely writing her political obituary?  Peggy Noonan is so far winning her case against Hillary Clinton.  The current New York Senator, though, has a splendid opportunity to prove her wrong.  However, my bets are on Noonan. Leopards rarely change their spots.	2001-03-21
US	52940618	R1NUUFUQ08QL5H	074320123X	217916880	Reagan, In His Own Hand: The Writings of Ronald Reagan that Reveal His Revolutionary Vision for America	Books	5	120	130	N	Y	Many of Us Underestimated Ronald Reagan	This selection of 670 radio commentaries Ronald Reagan wrote between 1975 and 1979 astonishes me to no end.  Although I was an ardent supporter of the former  President, it seemed to me that Reagan's intellect left much to be desired.  At best I concluded that Reagan had superb gut instincts, but was primarily the mouthpiece  of those far more intelligent than himself.  The first question concerning--Reagan, In His Own Hand--that came to mind was whether Reagan relied upon a ghost writer.  After  all, it is well established that some political leaders such as John F. Kennedy were credited for books they never wrote.  I was therefore amazed to learn that it appears  Ronald Reagan didn't even have an editorial assistant. These writings are indeed the result of Reagan's many years of intellectual inquiry in issues dominating the  last three quarters of a century.<br />The editors of this collection rightfully describe Reagan as &quot;a one-man think tank.&quot;  His insights on why Communism would inevitably disintegrate  alone justifies the purchase of this work.  Reagan's detractors were upset when the President called the now defunct Soviet Union an &quot;evil empire.&quot; Nevertheless, Reagan refused to mealy mouth the truth.  In the end Reagan insisted that we stay the course in our opposition to World Communism.  A weaker but still dangerous Soviet  Union might still exist today had it not been for President Reagan.  He was proven correct and his opponents should have the integrity to admit their errors in judgment.  The  great leader also clearly understood the values of Democratic Capitalism.  Some may legitimately nit-pick Reagan on some of the specifics, but substantially he was on target.  Reagan's own words reveal a profound realization that dire poverty can only be eradicated by an essentially free economic system; government policies may be well  meaning, but inadvertently often do more harm than good.<br />Ronald Reagan was one of the greatest Presidents in our nation's history.  Even many professional Liberal historians are favorably reevaluating Reagan's Presidency. --Reagan, In His Own Hand--deserves a prominent place in one's library.  These radio commentaries allow us to more fully comprehend how fortunate we were that Ronald  Reagan lead our nation during such a crucial era.ts in our nation's history.  Even many professional Liberal historians are favorably reevaluating Reagan's Presidency. --Reagan, In His Own Hand--deserves a prominent place in one's library.  These radio commentaries allow us to more fully comprehend how fortunate we were that Ronald  Reagan lead our nation during such a crucial era.	2001-03-19
US	52940618	R237QU25XJOF7Q	156584503X	733832553	Cigarettes: Anatomy of an Industry from Seed to Smoke	Books	4	12	14	N	N	Our Nation's Schizophrenic Moral Dilemma	Americans live in a nation that outlaws certain drugs as too dangerous for public consumption. Nonetheless, a proven killer such as tobacco is readily available for any citizen over the age of eighteen. Tara Parker-Pope admirably deals with this maddening, if not hypocritical set of circumstances. The Wall Street reporter delves into the history of tobacco consumption from the early days of American history. Cotton was not the first crop requiring cheap labor in the colonies. No, it turns out that tobacco has that dubious honor. She therefore contends that the tobacco industry substantially underpinned the evil institution of slavery. Tobacco was even used to encourage Africans to betray their own to the slave traders.  The author adds that tobacco played a significant role in America's revolt against the British crown. Abstract issues of personal freedom were at least partly interpreted by many colonists as a desire to lessen Great Britain's control of the tobacco markets.<br />Tobacco advertising has always emphasized the supposed sophistication and elite status of the user. Parker-Pope recounts an incident in the early part of the last century when an insightful public relations expert urged the Lucky Strike company to sponsor a Green Ball in New York for the purpose of enticing socialite women to be more receptive to the green color of its cigarette pack. Later members of the medical community were co-opted to allay the health concerns of an increasingly wary public. Deceitfulness has long been the standard practice of the tobacco industry. Status seeking and easily swayed youngsters are seduced by role models in the entertainment field to pass along this horror from one generation to the next. Also, the international corporate promoters of these death causing products are expanding their marketing operations to all corners of the globe. Apparently we have lost the ability to be ashamed and allow the exploitation of the less educated in the Third World communities. Missionary zeal was once perceived in a more positive manner. Now it has more sinister connotations.<br />Parker-Pope observes that the consumers are actually paying for the so-called tobacco court room financial settlements. These tobacco addicts merely go deeper into their wallets to make up the difference. She also agrees with my own cynical conclusion that the efforts of anti-smoking crusaders have been eviscerated by the massive financial payoffs. I suspect that the officials of the states agreeing to the settlements are guilty of shaking hands with the devil; the money is coming into their respective governmental coffers---and deep in their guts they hesitate to risk killing the goose laying the golden eggs. The tobacco industry has tacitly bribed our national leaders to pretend that staunch opposition still persists even when the evidence suggest otherwise. Outlawing cigarettes will probably cause more trouble than good. Prohibition inadvertently results in subsidizing organized crime. This, however, does not preclude other realistic actions that should be considered.<br />The author's work definitely deserves to be read by all concerned citizens. There are no easy answers to this national dilemma, but Ms. Parker-Pope assists us in further clarifying the issues. We owe her our gratitude.ties. Missionary zeal was once perceived in a more positive manner. Now it has more sinister connotations.<br />Parker-Pope observes that the consumers are actually paying for the so-called tobacco court room financial settlements. These tobacco addicts merely go deeper into their wallets to make up the difference. She also agrees with my own cynical conclusion that the efforts of anti-smoking crusaders have been eviscerated by the massive financial payoffs. I suspect that the officials of the states agreeing to the settlements are guilty of shaking hands with the devil; the money is coming into their respective governmental coffers---and deep in their guts they hesitate to risk killing the goose laying the golden eggs. The tobacco industry has tacitly bribed our national leaders to pretend that staunch opposition still persists even when the evidence suggest otherwise. Outlawing cigarettes will probably cause more trouble than good. Prohibition inadvertently results in subsidizing organized crime. This, however, does not preclude other realistic actions that should be considered.<br />The author's work definitely deserves to be read by all concerned citizens. There are no easy answers to this national dilemma, but Ms. Parker-Pope assists us in further clarifying the issues. We owe her our gratitude.	2001-03-05
US	52940618	R15GM20S6KRW0U	0944379044	589962776	Mein Kampf	Books	1	12	39	N	N	This Evil Book Must Not Be Ignored	It is a horrendous mistake to ban Adolph Hitler's evil manifesto -Mein Kampf- written about a decade before the dictator came to power. Well meaning censors are indeed right in prudentially warning immature minds to be cautious.  One most certainly should not offer -Mein  Kampf- to a child.  This book, however, allows us to more fully understand the mindset of the Nazi leader who unleashed pure hell upon the  world.  We must remember that Hitler wrote this work in 1924 during his incarceration in Landberg Am Lech Prison.  Few believed this  minor league figure had a political future.  The Nazis were mostly perceived to be a collection of losers, a fanatical fringe group that need not  be taken seriously.  Hitler and his goons were not feared as much as ridiculed. The American journalist William Shirer, for instance, recalled  the barroom fellowship of colleagues who made fun of the Nazis.  Charlie Chaplin even did a comedy routine imitating the mannerisms of  Hitler.<br />Adolph Hitler was not subtle and discrete.  The charismatic Fuehrer readily indulged in pseudoscientific jargon to convey an intellectual  authority to support his lunatic theories.  Chapter XI of Volume I entitled &quot;Nation and Race&quot; wherein the Nazi leader charged Jews with  &quot;poisoning&quot; the German race alone should have alerted the world.  Democracy was viewed as nothing more than a swindle perpetuated by  the weaker races to defeat the master German elite.  The enemy of my enemy is my friend is how many justified their awkward and uneasy  alliances with the Nazis.  Hitler's contempt for Russian Communism encouraged these people to naively let down their guard.  This was  especially true of those religious adherents of the Roman Catholic and Lutheran Protestant traditions. It was not all that unusual to find individuals who dismissed Hitler's vile utterances as nothing more than exaggerated tongue in cheek rhetoric.  The at least metaphorical reality of  Original Sin guarantees that Adolph Hitler will regrettably not be the last of his kind.  We need to study -Mein Kampf- to guide us concerning  similar dangers that will forevermore threaten humankind.  Should -Mein Kampf- be prominently displayed in one's personal library?  I  will not disparage others of laudable intentions who boldly place this book in public view, but I've long ago personally decided that a more  fitting place is in the back of my garage.  The legitimate study of Nazism does not seem to me to require a constant blatant reminder of  Hitler's diabolical era.  Remembering history so as not to repeat it is one thing.  Nevertheless, allowing it to dominate every waking moment is  also not wise.  A spiritual and psychological balance must be maintained.that Adolph Hitler will regrettably not be the last of his kind.  We need to study -Mein Kampf- to guide us concerning  similar dangers that will forevermore threaten humankind.  Should -Mein Kampf- be prominently displayed in one's personal library?   I  will not disparage others of laudable intentions who boldly place this book in public view, but I've long ago personally decided that a more  fitting place is in the back of my garage.  The legitimate study of Nazism does not seem to me to require a constant blatant reminder of  Hitler's diabolical era.   Remembering history so as not to repeat it is one thing.  Nevertheless, allowing it to dominate every waking moment is  also not wise.  A spiritual and psychological balance must be maintained.	2001-02-18
US	52940618	R231OOJZZSNI7H	0802116736	189214091	A. J. Ayer: A Life	Books	4	9	20	N	N	Why Was The Mediocre Ayer Taken So Seriously ?	A.J. Ayer was a second rate thinker not worthy of serious consideration. Unfortunately, many do not agree with my assessment of Ayer's ideas and his ill earned fame and influence persists even in this century. One may prefer to ignore Ayer, but pragmatically this is not wise. Ben Roger's splendid book does much to assist us to learn more about Ayer and those who worship the ground he walked on. Ayer is a quintessential example of how a highly rewarding career can be built upon deliberate iconoclasm and trendiness. Pseudo intellectualism is often warmly received by the Left leaning members of Great Britain's university milieu. In such a dilettante environment, one's ability to shock and entertain is valued far more than true intellectual brilliance. The author spends significant time dealing with Ayer's relationships with members of England's upper crust. This class of people psychologically eviscerated by self doubts and low self esteem are perfect cannon fodder for Ayer's pernicious charm.<br />Ayer gravitated towards a personal philosophy that served to rationalize away his faults and mistreatment of other human beings. The central premise of Ayer's so called philosophy (which is actually an anti-philosophy) is that only phenomena that can be ascertained within the severely limited parameters of Logical Positivism merit our attention. Thus, nothing is worthy of valid interest that cannot be empirically verified. Questions concerning love, God, values, evil, the possibility of life after death, are to be relegated to the dust bin of history. The very underpinnings of a viable social order are inevitably threatened by the tacit conclusion of Ayer's thoughts. Ayer was a charlatan who seduced his adoring faithful into embracing a way of looking at matters that legitimately belong to the realm of the hard sciences. Unfortunately, this approach fails miserably when addressing the unavoidable existential issues of human life.<br />I suspect that I'm encouraging people to read Ben Roger's book for reasons that will not entirely thrill the author. Roger almost certainly doesn't share my caustic appraisal of Ayer. That, however, is Roger's problem and not mine. We should read Roger's book to learn from the past so not to fall prey to similar nonsense in the future. Karl Popper, an ardent foe of Ayer's central beliefs deserves your rapt devotion. Popper is truly a giant for all time, and scathingly took Ayer and his ilk to  task.  I also whole heartily encourage the reader to obtain a copy of the recently released --The Abolition of Britain--by Peter Hitchens. Another work , --The  Intellectuals--by Paul Johnson, takes an insightful look at other high profile individuals who have also done much damage to civilization. Johnson whole thesis revolves around the absurdity of pretending that one's personal behavior does not influence their intellectual life.read Ben Roger's book for reasons that will not entirely thrill the author. Roger almost certainly doesn't share my caustic appraisal of Ayer. That, however, is Roger's problem and not mine. We should read Roger's book to learn from the past so not to fall prey to similar nonsense in the future. Karl Popper, an ardent foe of Ayer's central beliefs deserves your rapt devotion. Popper is truly a giant for all time, and scathingly took Ayer and his ilk to  task.  I also whole heartily encourage the reader to obtain a copy of the recently released --The Abolition of Britain--by Peter Hitchens. Another work , --The  Intellectuals--by Paul Johnson, takes an insightful look at other high profile individuals who have also done much damage to civilization. Johnson whole thesis revolves around the absurdity of pretending that one's personal behavior does not influence their intellectual life.	2001-02-10
US	52940618	R2P9N205N24LPB	0415923913	163413322	Popper: The Great Philosophers (The Great Philosophers Series)	Books	5	3	3	N	Y	Frederic Raphael's Brief Book On Karl Popper is Invaluable	I purchased this small book of only fifty-nine pages regarding the twentieth century philosophical giant Karl Popper with a certain degree of  pessimism. Could the author truly succeed in doing justice to the person and thoughts of this great man in such a brief manner? The adamant and unhesitating  answer is in the affirmative. Raphael brilliantly outlines the impact of Popper's thinking upon both the political and scientific spheres of human investigation.  Popper thoroughly demolished the philosophical underpinnings of totalitarianism. It is an utter disgrace, I might add, that Popper's brilliant attack  on the error of historicism is rarely discussed in today's academic circles. Much horror and blood shed could have been avoided in the previous century had  the Austrian born philosopher received the attention he had overwhelmingly earned.<br />The blunt side of Popper's character often irritated those around him. Karl Popper and Ludwig Wittgenstein, for example, on one occasion  almost came to blows. Was Popper a pleasant man to know on a personal basis? He may very well have been inclined to treat disagreement in an unfair manner.  Nonetheless, this possible character fault should not blind us to the value of Popper's philosophical insights. After all, since when has philosophical inquiry  been about winning a popularity contest? I wholeheartedly recommend this book. Even someone already familiar with Karl Popper's thinking will find it of value.  This is the first book I have ordered in &quot;The Great Philosophers&quot; series put together by Frederic Raphael and Ray Monk. It most certainly will not be the last!	2001-02-03
US	52940618	R130REJB7FZCAP	0316372617	188188158	The River : A Journey to the Source of HIV and AIDS	Books	3	7	21	N	N	Hooper's Central Thesis Is Ultimately Not Provable	Edward Hooper contends that the HIV tragedy was the result of shabbily performed trials fifty years ago involving a polio vaccine. He charges the vaccine testers with reckless behavior and regrets that more rigorous procedures were not followed.  Hoover offers substantial evidence suggesting that racist inclinations underpinned the nonchalant attitudes of these scientists.  This was admittedly the vile mindset of numerous professional scientists during that less enlightened era.  One wonders, though, if the author doesn't place too much emphasis on this probability in order to  justify jumping to an invalid conclusion.  It still remains a major stretch to believe that the ignoble philosophical attitudes of certain individuals  accidentally released AIDS to the general public. Nonetheless, there is little possibility either way for the author's central thesis to ever be  absolutely validated.  The philosopher Karl Popper aptly pointed out that theories which currently seem beyond question may someday be  found faulty. Newton's Law, for instance, was superseded by Albert Einstein's theory of relativity.  Eventually the latter's theories may even  become obsolete. In the world of empirical research no hypothesis is safe from later refutation.  Hoover's views are no exception to this  iron clad law of scientific investigation.<br />Hooper wants someone to blame for our current horrendous circumstances.  Is there, however, really a historical lesson to be learned in  -The River- to guide us for all time?  I fail to perceive how the alleged catastrophe could have been prevented by a more cautious approach if the  very premise was erroneous.  There is regrettably no such thing as an entirely safe experiment.  Only hind sight is 20/20.  We can at best  limit the risks, not entirely eliminate them.  Also, should the world's overworked and desperate scientific community invest preciously scarce  resources in learning more about the origins of the AIDS virus?  Would such knowledge truly assist us in finding a cure?  Isn't it perhaps  more appropriate for scientists to instead focus upon the current mutations of the many HIV strains?  Hooper's argument is engaging, but  pragmatically the relevance of his laudable goal leaves much to be desired.  I can only give this book a mild recommendation.wledge truly assist us in finding a cure?  Isn't it perhaps  more appropriate for scientists to instead focus upon the current mutations of the many HIV strains?  Hooper's argument is engaging, but  pragmatically the relevance of his laudable goal leaves much to be desired.  I can only give this book a mild recommendation.	2001-01-28
US	52940618	RGNDZIZS7OTAH	1558505113	558986490	The 25 Most Common Sales Mistakes ... and How to Avoid Them	Books	4	19	21	N	Y	Schiffman's Bits of Wisdom Well Worth The Price	I have attended one of Stephan Schiffman's DEI Management Group day long sales seminars. This investment in time has been amply  rewarded many times over.  --The 25 Most Common Sales Mistakes and How to Avoid Them-- should be purchased by everyone earning a  living in sales.  Furthermore, even those who do not perceive themselves as per se sales people will also benefit. I am convinced that  legitimate sales training will assist anyone who merely desires how to better communicate with others on a day to day basis.  After all, who doesn't have to occasionally persuade others to embrace their vision of reality?<br />Mistake #14 &quot;Trying to Convince, Rather than Covey&quot; is a fault I often unwittingly repeated in the past.  The other 24 may  highlight a  sales weakness that the reader needs to immediately address.  The brevity and conciseness of Schiffman's books make them invaluable to  all sales organizations.  An advanced higher degree is not mandatory to comprehend his tidbits of wisdom. Nobody has to go through the  book in one sitting. A chapter here and there will suffice. I recommend buying the author's books in large quantities.  The pricing is not only  very reasonable---it is easily justified even if individual members of the sales force pick up only a few pointers along the way.  An incremental  improvement in sales skills will often result in a higher closing ratio. Schiffman is one of the very best.  You should pay attention to him.	2001-01-20
US	52940618	R10W28H2XKX43P	037542069X	966615782	An American Story	Books	4	10	11	N	Y	Debra Dickerson's Journey Is Truly An American Story	Debra Dickerson wrestles with the issues of race and overall female respect.  She desperately wanted to believe in her early years that hard  work alone would suffice; the world was essentially fair if one merely put in the required effort.  Alas, this simplistic notion was soon found  untenable.  She becomes something of a conservative mugged by reality. Dickerson is made brutally aware that blacks  such as her brother Bobby do not have inexhaustible opportunities to get it right. The sons and daughters of the wealthy indeed have the  odds in their favor.  The latter will not have to pull themselves up by their boot straps.  Unhesitatingly blasting all forms of affirmative action  turns out often to be the fatuous indulgence of a class of people who will do everything to protect their own progeny from the harshness of  an uncaring universe.<br />The author's military career added to her disillusionment.  Dickerson had to contend with the unconscious racism of whites, and the  self destructive victim mentality of many of her black cohorts.  Being a woman in a male dominated environment presented her with a new  set of difficulties.  Even rape was not considered a violation demanding serious consequences for the assailant.  A woman was expected to  know her place and not make waves.  Human law is imperfect and Dickerson concludes that it might be beneficial to learn how to finesse  the system.  She attends Harvard Law School and finds some Afro-American students to be hypocritical Liberal snobs of the worst kind.  They have absolutely no hesitation in rebuking a professor behind his back for alleged Uncle Tomism.  Nonetheless, these students are later  seen sucking up to the same teacher to get a good reference for future employment. This professor, by the way, is the highly esteemed  Randall Kennedy, a man who I fully respect and admire.<br />&quot;The left annoys me but the right insults my intelligence,&quot; claims Dickerson. She remains unclear concerning the choice of which intellectual faction best  represents her basic philosophy.  I am, though, glad Dickerson includes the names of neo-Liberal James Fallows and neo-Conservative  Glenn Loury, as thinkers who assisted her in completing this book.  Their balanced views should contine to be helpful. --An American  Story-- is a worthy first autobiography.  Let us hope another work is scheduled in the near future.  Much has been accomplished to improve  the status of America's minorities, but there is still more to do.  Debra Dickerson's evolving insights will be appreciated.choice of which intellectual faction best  represents her basic philosophy.  I am, though, glad Dickerson includes the names of neo-Liberal James Fallows and neo-Conservative  Glenn Loury, as thinkers who assisted her in completing this book.   Their balanced views should contine to be helpful. --An American  Story-- is a worthy first autobiography.  Let us hope another work is scheduled in the near future.  Much has been accomplished to improve  the status of America's minorities, but there is still more to do.  Debra Dickerson's evolving insights will be appreciated.	2001-01-01
US	52940618	R3KG7ZTDKRXT5V	0024288101	230395908	Philosophical Investigations (3rd Edition)	Books	4	12	27	N	N	Wittgenstein's Positivist Inclinations Damaged His Work	In this collection of thoughts and insights Wittgenstein addresses the muddled thinking of his -Tractatus Logico Philosophicus.- The  essential error in the previous work is due to the philosopher's failure to realize that language is intrinsically nebulous.  Wittgenstein's  flirtation with Logical Positivism blinded him to the reality that the hard mathematical sciences can only take us so far.  Words constantly  change in meaning.  Each and every human being on this planet creates new words and reinterprets the old.  There is no such thing as a  literal language; relativism is the inescapable norm.  The interpretation of a word is always in constant flux from one moment to the next.  Words mean different things to different people. Context is everything.  No word can escape a possible complete reversal in meaning.  All words have  majority and minority interpretations.  A computer software spell checker, for instance, is at best a modest guide. The user must still be a relatively  good speller to obtain any value from a so-called spell checker. People, regardless of intelligence and education, will forevermore interact with each other by a never ending  process of inventing new expressions of meaning. We experiment until we reach a  reasonable certitude, not certainty, of understanding.  The use of body language, voice inflection, irony, hyperbole, or sarcasm can change the entire  meaning of an uttered word. The subjectivity of the interpretation of words is a major reason why we sometimes fail to communicate effectively.  A workable consensus is the best we can strive for.  This is also  why artificial intelligence will unlikely evolve to the point where we will ever engage in a give and take conversation with  a machine.<br />Language is essentially a Liberal Arts Discipline.  The virtue of prudential judgment solely enables us interpret words.  Frustration and  madness threatens those who wish to believe otherwise.  Wittgenstein desired the security blanket universe subtly promised by the Logical  Positivists.  Within this school of thought, the existential mysteries of life and death are deemed unworthy of even an acknowledgment.  The hard sciences are perceived as more comforting and absolute.  A person with such a mind set hesitates to learn how to  walk the proverbial tight wire without a net. It is doubtful whether Wittgenstein ever came to grips to the realization that while human  language leaves much to be desired, we still might with some effort be able to form viable relationships with other individuals and their accompanying social groups.  Regretfully, the wrong headed nihilistic speculations of the philosophical deconstructionists seemed to hold sway over Wittgenstein throughout his intellectual life.  Bertrand Russell, a friend of this controversial figure, thought  that Wittgenstein was vastly overrated.  I also agree with this assessment.  The fame of Wittgenstein is due more to the courage of his  convictions, a willingness to risk his life, and iconoclastic life choices than the pure brilliance of his thinking.  Investing time and energy in  Wittgenstein's aphorisms and essays will at least give one a glimpse into one of the dominant minds of our modern world.  I would also  recommend the reader obtain a copy of Ray Monk's biographical study--Ludwig Wittgenstein: The Duty of Genius.--niverse subtly promised by the Logical  Positivists.  Within this school of thought, the existential mysteries of life and death are deemed unworthy of even an acknowledgment.   The hard sciences are perceived as more comforting and absolute.  A person with such a mind set hesitates to learn how to  walk the proverbial tight wire without a net. It is doubtful whether Wittgenstein ever came to grips to the realization that while human  language leaves much to be desired, we still might with some effort be able to form viable relationships with other individuals and their accompanying social groups.  Regretfully, the wrong headed nihilistic speculations of the philosophical deconstructionists seemed to hold sway over Wittgenstein throughout his intellectual life.  Bertrand Russell, a friend of this controversial figure, thought  that Wittgenstein was vastly overrated.  I also agree with this assessment.  The fame of Wittgenstein is due more to the courage of his  convictions, a willingness to risk his life, and iconoclastic life choices than the pure brilliance of his thinking.  Investing time and energy in  Wittgenstein's aphorisms and essays will at least give one a glimpse into one of the dominant minds of our modern world.  I would also  recommend the reader obtain a copy of Ray Monk's biographical study--Ludwig Wittgenstein: The Duty of Genius.--	2000-12-30
US	52940618	R415AF72BFPAK	1586480073	560826473	The Slate Diaries	Books	4	4	10	N	Y	Are Liberals Essentially The Only Interesting People?	Slate editor Michael Kinsley needs a reality check.  This is one of the strangest anthologies ever put into print.  There is little reason for anybody to purchase a copy.  Every single one of the included diaries are readily available for free.  One merely needs to go to [...] web site and use its search engine.  The only benefit of this volume is the assurance of its editors that these diaries are the best of the lot.  Other than conservative writer Tucker Carlson these decision makers seem  to think that only extremist to moderate Liberals are interesting.  Of course one should not overlook the fact that according to an in-house poll Slate is so liberal that only a handful of its staff voted  for the Republican candidate in the recent Presidential election.  Why therefore should we be surprised by the inclusion of Al Gore's daughter Karenna as a diarist?  The addition of decontructionist philosopher Stanley Fish was particularly irritating.  Even the diary of Microsoft Chairman Bill Gates reflects the pervasive  Liberalism of its contributors.  Gates might be the current foremost champion of capitalism, but it is disquieting to observe the software magnate attending the 75th  anniversary dinner of Time magazine where it seems left of center celebrities are the only ones that caught his attention. Like Kinsley and some of the other contributors, Bill Gates also attended Harvard  University,  a school which appears to indoctrinates its students body into believing that modern day Liberalism is the font of all wisdom and moral decency.<br />Now that I've ranted and raved about the pervasive Liberalism of the Slate diarists, do I have anything nice to say?  The answer is yes. There are many humorous  insights concerning how these people live out their everyday lives.  They might be mostly Liberal but I do find them to be intelligent and entertaining.  James Fallows,  one of my favorite neo-Liberal writers, tells us about the decisions an editor of the U.S. News &amp; World Report must make as the printing deadline approaches. Have you ever wondered how film critic Roger Ebert gets through the day? Now you can find out.  Novelist Cynthia Ozick remarks upon the obliviousness of an employer who has not a clue that he shares the  same name with the great Scottish philosopher David  Hume.  It has been my experience that most people are ignorant about the fact that there are scholars and scientists with names similar to their own.  They seem  indifferent unless one can point to a famous sports figure or actor.  Jan Reid, a founding writer of the Texas Monthly, recounts about the time he was shot during a robbery in Mexico City.  I also cynically  appreciated the candor of the anonymous professor who reveals the political infighting that is unavoidable for those without tenure.  Last but not least, I envied the  UPS driver who spots a car with a bumper sticker reading, &quot;I fantasize about the UPS man.&quot;  Some guys have all the luck!<br />I recommend buying this book only as a gift.  Unfortunately, there are still many people lacking the basic talent of how to find stuff on the Internet.  Other than that,  simply click five or six strokes to peruse the total diary offerings of Slate.com.p; World Report must make as the printing deadline approaches. Have you ever wondered how film critic Roger Ebert gets through the day? Now you can find out.  Novelist Cynthia Ozick remarks upon the obliviousness of an employer who has not a clue that he shares the  same name with the great Scottish philosopher David  Hume.  It has been my experience that most people are ignorant about the fact that there are scholars and scientists with names similar to their own.  They seem  indifferent unless one can point to a famous sports figure or actor.  Jan Reid, a founding writer of the Texas Monthly, recounts about the time he was shot during a robbery in Mexico City.  I also cynically  appreciated the candor of the anonymous professor who reveals the political infighting that is unavoidable for those without tenure.  Last but not least, I envied the  UPS driver who spots a car with a bumper sticker reading, &quot;I fantasize about the UPS man.&quot;  Some guys have all the luck!<br />I recommend buying this book only as a gift.  Unfortunately, there are still many people lacking the basic talent of how to find stuff on the Internet.  Other than that,  simply click five or six strokes to peruse the total diary offerings of Slate.com.	2000-12-25
US	52940618	R2QLYE55GYGF35	1890154059	451329887	Getting the Most From Your Yellow Pages Advertising, Second Edition: Maximum Profits at Minimum Cost	Books	4	20	21	N	Y	Why is Barry Maher's Book Almost the Only One Available?	What is wrong with this picture? The yellow page industry's annual sales figures are a mind boggling eleven to twelve billion dollars.  Shouldn't the reader therefore conclude that dozens of books are constantly rolling off the presses devoted to this topic? Yet, I diligently  searched for all the books and writings concerning yellow pages advertising---and this 2nd updated edition printed in 1997 is the most recent  and comprehensive one that I could locate!  What's more, according to Amazon.com's sales figures this book is not even close to being a best  seller. Barry Maher has a virtual monopoly because of an apparent lack of interest.  He focuses on the small to mid size companies who  usually don't seem to spend five minutes a year figuring out their marketing strategy.  The author brilliantly goes into a great deal of specific  advice concerning why and when one should purchase an add in a particular yellow pages segment.  Should one buy an ad in a &quot;core&quot;  directory published by the local telephone utility, or might an independent publisher be more appropriate? Maher answers that placing an ad  in the core book is usually mandatory.  He quickly adds, though, that the independent offerings might also make economic sense.  The  independents may not obtain an equal number of responses, but their lower cost and impressive distribution figures often make them a great  bargain.<br />What about a business to business yellow pages?  In which circumstance is this the right choice for a business? How big should an ad be?  Who should design the ad?  Should the buyer pay extra for color?  Is the price negotiable? How does one gauge success or failure?  Why  purchase an ad now if the book will not be released until later in the year?  Barry Maher addresses these and other pertinent issues.  He even  comments briefly, but perspicaciously upon the new phenomenon of Internet yellow pages.  This book absolutely should not be ignored.  I  suspect that too many entrepreneurs fail to seriously consider about how best to effectively market their products and services.  A careless hit and miss  approach is often the full extent of their willingness to invest time and energy in a matter of such overwhelming importance.  &quot;We aren't big  enough to advertise,&quot; is an excuse commonly uttered. Maher rightfully points out that you don't advertise because you are big, but because  you desire to become big. Ralph Waldo Emerson supposedly (or at least he gets the blame) said that the the world will beat a path to your  door if you build a better mousetrap. Unfortunately, in the real world nobody knocks on the front door, regardless of your firm's excellent  qualities, if they have never heard of you.  Many companies go bankrupt solely due to abysmal marketing habits. Another good book to  purchase is -The Guerrilla Marketing Handbook- by Jay Levinson &amp; Seth Godin.  They also have an excellent chapter dedicated to yellow  page advertising.preneurs fail to seriously consider about how best to effectively market their products and services.  A careless hit and miss  approach is often the full extent of their willingness to invest time and energy in a matter of such overwhelming importance.  &quot;We aren't big  enough to advertise,&quot; is an excuse commonly uttered. Maher rightfully points out that you don't advertise because you are big, but because  you desire to become big. Ralph Waldo Emerson supposedly (or at least he gets the blame) said that the the world will beat a path to your  door if you build a better mousetrap. Unfortunately, in the real world nobody knocks on the front door, regardless of your firm's excellent  qualities, if they have never heard of you.   Many companies go bankrupt solely due to abysmal marketing habits. Another good book to  purchase is -The Guerrilla Marketing Handbook- by Jay Levinson &amp; Seth Godin.  They also have an excellent chapter dedicated to yellow  page advertising.	2000-12-17
US	52940618	R1ZR0DZQ0BP5MM	0805038647	332682680	Beer and Circus: How Big-Time College Sports Has Crippled Undergraduate Education	Books	4	4	9	N	N	Grade Inflation Is The Real Culprit In This Tragedy	Murray Sperber is to be congratulated for his courage in exposing the rampant immorality widely found on college campuses throughout the United States. Many of the school administrators, professors, and students described in this book deserve criminal prosecution. There are literally thousands of people in prison who have committed far less onerous deeds. Should we hold our breadth waiting for justice to be done? Of course not. Such unethical behavior has become the norm, and far too many people have reputations and careers to protect. Nothing is likely to change anytime in the near future. A powerful and vindictive establishment will do virtually anything to destroy its opponents. Sperber's secure position as a tenured English professor at Indiana University is the only thing keeping him out of harm's way.<br />Is Dr. Sperber perhaps placing too much emphasis on sports? Wes Lukowsky in his &quot;Booklist&quot; review makes an extremely valid point: &quot;the weakest part of the book  is Sperber's attempt to establish a direct relationship between the presence of big-time athletics on campus and the poor education received by most undergraduates. The reader finishes the book convinced that athletics harms athletes, but that university education is in plenty of trouble with or without sports on campus.&quot;  Amen, I am in total agreement with Lukowsky. The grade inflation crisis would still continue to exist even if all sports programs were immediately banned. Of far greater importance is the Egalitarian myth arguing that just about anyone can successfully complete a university education. The late educational theorist Russell Kirk said the following in 1959: &quot;This narrow clique of ill-educated professors of pedagogy has terribly injured our educational system by the false dogma that all men 'are or can be made equal by education.' In truth, any society is the negation of equality. 'What compulsory public school education was supposed to do was to eliminate intellectual inequalities in American society, to make all men -- and later, women -- scholars. What it has, perforce, come to do is strive to prevent any individual from rising above the intellectual mediocrity of the majority.&quot;  Matters have only worsened considerably in the last forty years. It is regretful that our young adults are pressured to attain a college degree regardless of  their natural abilities. The inevitable result is that the standards must be lowered to accommodate the influx of these increasing numbers of less talented students.  A degree is often perceived as an entitlement, and not something to be  earned.  One pays their money to purchase a commodity product. The schools feel compelled to provide entertainment to divert everybody's attention away from the cynical fact that little education is actually occurring in the classrooms. Why should it therefore be surprising that cynical youngsters indulge in alcoholic binges?  After all, the sane person must make the best of their insane surroundings.<br />I highly recommend Sperber's latest book. Nonetheless, I hope to encourage him to soon direct more attention upon the egalitarian ethos that ultimately threatens to destroy our democratic culture. Tackling this controversial issue, however, will make Sperber's troubles over the Bobby Knight fiasco seem like an enjoyable walk in the park. Life indeed can become significantly harsher. I hope Professor Sperber is up to the task.llectual inequalities in American society, to make all men -- and later, women -- scholars. What it has, perforce, come to do is strive to prevent any individual from rising above the intellectual mediocrity of the majority.&quot;  Matters have only worsened considerably in the last forty years. It is regretful that our young adults are pressured to attain a college degree regardless of  their natural abilities. The inevitable result is that the standards must be lowered to accommodate the influx of these increasing numbers of less talented students.  A degree is often perceived as an entitlement, and not something to be  earned.  One pays their money to purchase a commodity product. The schools feel compelled to provide entertainment to divert everybody's attention away from the cynical fact that little education is actually occurring in the classrooms. Why should it therefore be surprising that cynical youngsters indulge in alcoholic binges?  After all, the sane person must make the best of their insane surroundings.<br />I highly recommend Sperber's latest book. Nonetheless, I hope to encourage him to soon direct more attention upon the egalitarian ethos that ultimately threatens to destroy our democratic culture. Tackling this controversial issue, however, will make Sperber's troubles over the Bobby Knight fiasco seem like an enjoyable walk in the park. Life indeed can become significantly harsher. I hope Professor Sperber is up to the task.	2000-12-16
US	52940618	R1L1YOXB786I73	0691049246	475534862	Disaffected Democracies: What's Troubling the Trilateral Countries?	Books	4	15	16	N	Y	Are The Trilateral Nations Really In Decline?	Are the trilateral democratic nations threatened by a steady disintegration of their social capital?  Are individual citizens less trusting of their political institutions and even of  each other?  These are the central themes probed by the contributors of this collection of essays. This book represents a reassessment of an earlier study &quot;The Crisis  of Democracy&quot; completed twenty five years ago by the Trilateral Commission.  I found the central premise of the current study, though, to be highly suspect.  After  all, these same countries now experience vastly improved economic conditions, and perhaps more importantly---are less likely to declare war on each other.  Could it  be that some of the contributors fail to see the proverbial forest because the trees are in the way?  It is admittedly an unhealthy state of affairs when people are hostile  towards their government.  Nevertheless, isn't a more pessimistic and realistic understanding of what is to be expected from the political sector to be applauded?  Prudence is not cynicism. Governments are innately limited in responding to the total needs of the individual.  Why be shy in conceding this fact?<br />Is there such a thing as too much social capital?  The Japanese kamikaze pilots, regardless of how perverted it may seem to us, were splendid example of intense social  bonding.  Also, the trust and fellowship of ethnic Germans during that time period were at a very high level.  A decreased interest in preserving social capital might  indeed discourage bigotry. Might a society be overly worried about sustaining the social bonds of its dominant group?  Couldn't this concern hinder the practical  decisions required in the everyday business world?  In the not too distant past, employers often indulged in the self defeating practice of hiring lesser talented  members of their own immediate social group instead of more qualified outsiders. Those once perceived as alien and repugnant are now at least tolerated, if not  eagerly recruited. Lifetime guaranteed employment and other projectionist measures underpinning an earlier interpretation of  social cohesiveness resulted in weaker economic conditions.  Contributor, Russell Hardin, perspicuously points out that the economic theories of F.A. Hayek and others of the  Austrian school were not able to be empirically studied in the past, but now appear &quot;to be acquitting themselves very well.&quot; Hardin's essay &quot;The Public Trust&quot; alone  justifies seeking out this book.<br />Why remain in a bad marriage or job if we don't have to?  New disruptive technological advances like the Internet are diminishing the importance of relationships  premised primarily upon physical proximity.  We often barely say hello to our next door neighbors.  Increasingly, many of us form viable relationships with people  on the other side of the globe.  I seriously doubt , for instance,  that I will ever personally meet most of the individuals who communicate with me on a regular basis.  Relatively inexpensive means of transportation and communications make it easier to form and dissolve relationships. Nonetheless, my chosen role as something of a devil's  advocate should not be interpreted as a lack of respect towards these scholars.  Robert Putnam, Susan Pharr, and their fellow cohorts are onto something.  Discussing  these issues is not a luxury, but a mandatory necessity.  We should not hesitate to join the conversation.  Putnam even actively encourages the participation of non  specialists.  He believes the matter is too urgent for the hoi polloi to remain on the sidelines.  A companion study &quot;Bowling Alone&quot; by the same Professor Putnam should also be  added to your reading list.ed, if not  eagerly recruited. Lifetime guaranteed employment and other projectionist measures underpinning an earlier interpretation of  social cohesiveness resulted in weaker economic conditions.  Contributor, Russell Hardin, perspicuously points out that the economic theories of F.A. Hayek and others of the  Austrian school were not able to be empirically studied in the past, but now appear &quot;to be acquitting themselves very well.&quot; Hardin's essay &quot;The Public Trust&quot; alone  justifies seeking out this book.<br />Why remain in a bad marriage or job if we don't have to?  New disruptive technological advances like the Internet are diminishing the importance of relationships  premised primarily upon physical proximity.  We often barely say hello to our next door neighbors.  Increasingly, many of us form viable relationships with people  on the other side of the globe.  I seriously doubt , for instance,  that I will ever personally meet most of the individuals who communicate with me on a regular basis.    Relatively inexpensive means of transportation and communications make it easier to form and dissolve relationships. Nonetheless, my chosen role as something of a devil's  advocate should not be interpreted as a lack of respect towards these scholars.  Robert Putnam, Susan Pharr, and their fellow cohorts are onto something.  Discussing  these issues is not a luxury, but a mandatory necessity.  We should not hesitate to join the conversation.  Putnam even actively encourages the participation of non  specialists.   He believes the matter is too urgent for the hoi polloi to remain on the sidelines.  A companion study &quot;Bowling Alone&quot; by the same Professor Putnam should also be  added to your reading list.	2000-11-25
US	52940618	REOODL8Z8I8YF	0684853914	247231538	Joe DiMaggio: The Hero's Life	Books	4	15	29	N	N	Joe DiMaggio: Some Stories Are Best Left Untold	Biographer Richard Ben Cramer placed himself in a vulnerable situation.  A Pulitzer Prize winning journalist has an obligation to tell the truth.  But what if most us  really don't desire harsh reality? Most sports celebrities usually require only a long article to cover their life.  Presidential candidate Bill Bradley and Moe Berg the  intellectual spy are among the very rare exceptions.  There was no legitimate reason to justify writing a book about Joe Dimaggio.  The great Yankee center fielder did  nothing outside of the baseball field requiring our notice.  Dimaggio's marriage to Marilyn Monroe deserved no more than a few paragraphs.  Deep in their heart of  hearts most suspected that the real DiMaggio was merely an ordinary man.  The Yankee Clipper spent the last half century before his death cooperating closely with  marketing advisors.  These individuals shrewdly packaged and sold a Joe DiMaggio to an American public who preferred not asking too many awkward questions.  The strong silent type leave you guessing.  DiMaggio probably sensed that a taciturn demeanor might better protect this artificial image.<br />Why did so many prefer DiMaggio to be bigger than life? Could they not have left well enough alone?  Joe DiMaggio still remains one of the greatest baseball players  of all time.  Even many years later his record 56 game hitting streak appears unassailable.  I often wonder what Di Maggio would have accomplish if he played today.  An emphasis on physical fitness and improved training methods greatly benefit our current athletes.  Would DiMaggio's career lasted more than 13 years?  What he  had chosen to lift weights to build up his upper body strength?  How many more homers could he have hit?<br />There are many stories best left untold.  The national myth of Joe DiMaggio was built upon a fragile foundation.  One should be careful of what they ask for--they  might get it!  Richard Ben Cramer and his publishers gave the public what it thought it wanted. Now that same public will never forgive him.d. Now that same public will never forgive him.	2000-11-24
US	52940618	R215SLSPQWNUCT	0895264552	198502408	Backfire: A Reporter's Look at Affirmative Action	Books	2	1	4	N	N	Affirmative Action Debate Overwhelms Author	Bob Zelnick and I agree that affirmative action as often practiced in the real world causes much inadvertent harm.  Abstract principles may look  good on paper, but fail miserably when acted upon. He offers us numerous horror stories that should legitimately enrage us.  Zelnick takes  to task the hypocrisy of the major corporations who readily advocate affirmative policies knowing full well it cost them little in doing so.  The  firms truly paying the price are mostly small to mid size business entities. Nevertheless, I still maintain that fair minded and well thought out  affirmative action remedies can be beneficial.  Zelnick conveniently ignores our nation's long established history of racial prejudice.  He  overlooks the cold fact that many white people have always made sure their relatives and friends received special consideration.  There has  always been a sort of affirmative action for the wealthy and powerful.  Also, a minority person may be rejected for employment due to the  tacit, if not explicit, bias of the company.  People tend to choose their own kind.  What should be done, for instance, about a business hesitant  to hire an Afro-American individual to represent their services and products to its white customer base?  In such an unfair environment, how can a  minority candidate receive a fair break?  Aren't we caught in a Catch 22 vicious cycle?  There are no easy answers to this dilemma, but  Zelnick refuses to look at the other side of this most important debate.  Absolutist positions are far easier for us to handle, but this mind set  may distort the actual ambiguity and complexity of the situation.<br />A real crisis, however, develops when affirmative action is used to give an advantage to the less qualified.  How can a rational person justify  the hiring of shabbily qualified minority policemen merely to comply with affirmative action mandates?  The sports world suits up only its  best players for the game.  Long ago even the most racist sports organizations abandoned their prejudices because they were beginning to  lose too many contests to integrated teams.  Self preservation sometimes motivates one to do the right thing.  Why  abandon the principle  that only the best be chosen when the conversation turns towards the business sector and academics?  Why can't we be consistent?  Zelnick's  book serves the purpose of meticulously detailing the injustices of some Liberal conceived affirmative action policies.  Do you require such  documentation?  If so, you should obtain a copy of Zelnick's book.  I cannot, however, recommend it on any other level.  Zelnick candidly  subtitled his book as &quot;A Reporter's Look at Affirmative Action.&quot;  A journalist perspective alas does not suffice.  This national discussion requires  the attention of its social philosophers. Zelnick is not up to the task.s organizations abandoned their prejudices because they were beginning to  lose too many contests to integrated teams.  Self preservation sometimes motivates one to do the right thing.  Why  abandon the principle  that only the best be chosen when the conversation turns towards the business sector and academics?  Why can't we be consistent?  Zelnick's  book serves the purpose of meticulously detailing the injustices of some Liberal conceived affirmative action policies.  Do you require such  documentation?  If so, you should obtain a copy of Zelnick's book.  I cannot, however, recommend it on any other level.  Zelnick candidly  subtitled his book as &quot;A Reporter's Look at Affirmative Action.&quot;  A journalist perspective alas does not suffice.  This national discussion requires  the attention of its social philosophers. Zelnick is not up to the task.	2000-11-20
US	52940618	R3Q8K73RJC390I	0380713330	345099793	Animal Liberation	Books	3	20	51	N	N	One Can Reject Human/Animal Egalitarianism And Still Be kind	Peter Singer is to be commended for informing us about the cruelty inflicted upon animals occurring in many testing labs and farms.  The  author sounds an alarm that should upset and prompt us to demand immediate reforms.  This alone makes the book well worth reading. I  am not a vegetarian and have absolutely no intention of ever opting for this lifestyle.  Nevertheless, I want those creatures on the lower  levels of the food chain treated as kindly as possible.  This also goes for animals experimented upon for our benefit. Realistic criteria must  indeed be devised to assure that any experiments on animals are truly necessary and painless as possible. Do animals have per se rights? This  abstract debate can be avoided, and we are still morally compelled to address the issues of mistreatment.<br />Singer, however, goes too far when advocating an absolute equality between humans and animals.  Some of his followers attempt to present  a false dichotomy between equal consideration and absolute equality between the world's diverse species.  This seems to me quite  disingenuous.  We would essentially still end up placing the animal kingdom on equal footing with human beings.  This cannot be tolerated for  pragmatic reasons. I have no interest in merely referring to tracts of a theological faith dimension to justify my criticism.  The atheistic  evolutionary alternative writings based on pure reason are also pertinent to this discussion.  It may, regrettably, in some respects be  pointless to advance a well put together logical argument claiming that humans are superior to animals.  One either may or may not  embrace this premise.  The bottom line, though, is that humans must ultimately, and arbitrarily, if necessary, assert their primacy in order to  make any sense of their basic existential urge to find meaning in life. A human child, for instance,  must be valued over an animal, or we diminish the importance of every living person. This line has to be drawn in the sand. We either reject Singer's animal egalitarianism, or the  human race is doomed. A general consensus that human life is of the highest value is the only thing inhibiting our innate natural inclination  to indulge in ruthless savagery.  I am sure that Peter Singer is a well meaning man, but inadvertently he is the enemy of civilization. Good  intentions do not always overcome a dangerous philosophy. The reader should take this overall book with a huge grain of salt. Singer,  though, still deserves credit for at least forcing us to reevaluate our past abuse of animals. Singer is right to hold our feet to the fire until we  do better.d. We either reject Singer's animal egalitarianism, or the  human race is doomed. A general consensus that human life is of the highest value is the only thing inhibiting our innate natural inclination  to indulge in ruthless savagery.  I am sure that Peter Singer is a well meaning man, but inadvertently he is the enemy of civilization. Good  intentions do not always overcome a dangerous philosophy. The reader should take this overall book with a huge grain of salt. Singer,  though, still deserves credit for at least forcing us to reevaluate our past abuse of animals. Singer is right to hold our feet to the fire until we  do better.	2000-11-18
US	52940618	R23NSZ76KEWVIB	1891620398	118875723	Taboo : Why Black Athletes Dominate Sports and Why We're Afraid to Talk About It	Books	4	8	10	N	N	The Legacy of Descarte's Mind/Body Dualism Confuses Us	The Legacy of Descarte's Mind/Body Dualism Confuses Us<br />Jon Entine courageously delves into the possible role race plays in athletic performance. He points out the obvious fact that particular races and ethnic groups often dominate a sport.  The National Basketball Association, for instance, has more Afro-American players than white. It also, one might wish to add, has no Oriental players whatsoever. The inevitable controversial questions of nature vs. nurture inevitably come up for discussion.  The false dichotomy introduced by  philosopher, Rene' Descartes, asserting that a duality exist between mind and body almost certainly inhibits our reasoning.  I refuse to fall for  this trap.  There simply is no realistic way to proceed in our theorizing without accepting the fact that one's attitude has much to do with  being successful in sports.  Being obsessed about a specific endeavor, i.e., philosophy, music, or sports, is the norm for all those wishing to excel.  Different cultures will emphasize one particular sport over another. Entine might wish to focus more upon the cultural reasons why young  black men invest significantly more into basketball programs than their white counterparts.  White players are more often compelled by their  parents not to ignore their education.  Is Entine possibly underestimating the exaggerated importance of machismo in Afro-American male  life?  Anti-intellectualism is regrettably often embraced as a badge of honor.  This is even true for blacks living in more affluent  neighborhoods.<br />Why are there so few Jewish males in professional sports?  The Hall of Fame pitching great, Sandy Koufax, is the only Jew that comes to  mind in the last 40-50 years.  Isn't it likely that Jewish culture discourages teenagers from intensely pursuing athletic excellence when the  odds against professional success are so astronomically high?  I also recall that Hank Greenberg's family was initially ashamed of his baseball  career because it was deemed a waste of time.<br />Entine shares the unpleasant predicament of the authors of &quot;The Bell Curve.&quot;  Karl Popper warned us that scientific inquiry is valid only  when we seek to disprove our current theories.  Newton Law's was ultimately found to be in error. Will that also someday occur to  Einstein's theory of relativity?  I wouldn't bet against it.  There will never be a complete understanding of the human mind.  Homo sapiens  will forevermore remain an inexhaustible mystery. I am convinced that debates over intelligence and athletic performance will continue until  the end of time.  Jon Entine is to be congratulated for writing  &quot;Taboo.&quot;  I encourage the reader to think long and hard about Entine's speculations.  The man deserves a fair hearing.  The intrinsically nebulousness of the subject, however, precludes &quot;Taboo&quot; from being the final word.eemed a waste of time.<br />Entine shares the unpleasant predicament of the authors of &quot;The Bell Curve.&quot;  Karl Popper warned us that scientific inquiry is valid only  when we seek to disprove our current theories.  Newton Law's was ultimately found to be in error. Will that also someday occur to  Einstein's theory of relativity?  I wouldn't bet against it.  There will never be a complete understanding of the human mind.  Homo sapiens  will forevermore remain an inexhaustible mystery. I am convinced that debates over intelligence and athletic performance will continue until  the end of time.  Jon Entine is to be congratulated for writing  &quot;Taboo.&quot;  I encourage the reader to think long and hard about Entine's speculations.   The man deserves a fair hearing.  The intrinsically nebulousness of the subject, however, precludes &quot;Taboo&quot; from being the final word.	2000-11-17
US	52940618	R2D2W5EVAI3MMW	0393048799	997615053	The Twilight of American Culture	Books	3	5	15	N	N	Americans Are Not Victims---The Fault Lies Within Ourselves	I reject the central theme of Morris Berman's &quot;The Twilight of American Culture.&quot;  It may be right to claim, as also does Daniel Bell and others, that the inherent  contradictions within Capitalism encourage a lowering of the values and intellectual standards mandatory in sustaining a viable democracy.  This is indeed our  paradoxical achilles heel.  Capitalist entities give us what we truly demand.  These products and services may be beneficial---or instead send us to hell in a hand  basket.  It is our choice to make and we have to live with the consequences.  Does Berman believe that government bureaucrats should make these decisions for us?  He  doesn't say.  Is Berman perhaps even hinting that people like him should decide what's best for everyone?  If so, I possess more faith in our imperfect, but adequately  dependable Democratic Capitalist milieu.<br />Most adults can choose more meaningful and higher forms of culture if they so desire.  Even the poor are normally able to avail themselves of high brow offerings.  Used books are mostly sold for pennies off their original price.  Major museums usually offer at least one free day a week.  Are people being coerced when they opt  to click on silly TV sit coms instead of PBS?  Thus, unlike people of the Dark Ages, we are not victims. Anonymous corporations and conspiratorial forces are not the  enemy.  We are responsible for our own predicament. I do not share Berman's dire perception that we are descending &quot;into real barbarism.&quot;  Americans face many  challenges at the beginning of this new century.  However, I am confident that we have sufficient moral and intellectual resources to overcome them. Berman has  written a book of complaint that deserves a reading.  It would have been far better, though, if the author invested more time and effort focussing upon solutions. Berman fails to offer any significant alternatives on how we may better guarantee our secular salvation.  I hope he does so in his next book.his next book.	2000-10-19
US	52940618	R3SIM1M3GMPG9Y	0812925874	715739962	The Bell Curve Debate	Books	5	19	42	N	N	The Conundrum of Human Intelligence is Forevermore	It is regrettable to see that this valuable work is now out of print.  This book is mandatory reading for anyone desiring to delve deeper into  this controversial subject matter.  Russell Jacoby and Naomi Glauberman do a splendid job of bringing together authors with widely  differing views on the &quot;The Bell Curve.&quot; Irving Louis Horowitz, Stephen Jay Gould, and Christopher Hitchens are only among a few of the highly  regarding thinkers contributing to this collection.  The editors even included a couple of insightful pieces by Walter Lippmann written in  1922 taking to task scientists similar to Richard Herrnstein and Charles Murray. I particularly recommend the article by Hugh Pearson  entitled &quot;Breaking Ranks.&quot;  Pearson, aptly argues that the anti-intellectualism embraced by many Afro-American males afraid of being  perceived as race traitors, does much to explain the low I.Q. scores of this group.<br />There is, though, one major complaint I have with each and every writer that has tackled &quot;The Bell Curve.&quot;  Not one that I'm aware of has  made reference to the great philosopher, Karl Popper.  This fact flabbergasts me to no end.  Karl Popper warned that scholars, at best,  present tentative indications for their theories which may eventually be proven false.  How can we forget that fully credentialled scientists,  not perceived crack pots, encouraged the bleeding of patients only a few hundred years ago?  Another area of study now discredited is phrenology.  All students in their formative years must read the serious scholarship of those bygone days when such views were highly respected.  It is, I  dare say, a humbling experience.  Scientists may earn our respect, but we should never consider them infallible.<br />The measuring of intelligence is hindered by its intrinsic nebulousness.  Thus, the study of this phenomenon is not restricted to  members of the hard sciences.  The arrogant premise of Logical Positivism is found wanting. Poets, artists, philosophers, and other denizens  of the often derided Liberal Arts will forevermore continue to have a seat at the table.  Debates over the nature vs. nurture aspects of intelligence are doomed to take  place until the end of time.  Nobody will ever be able to claim they have exhausted this ultimate conundrum of human existence.<br />... .Poets, artists, philosophers, and other denizens  of the often derided Liberal Arts will forevermore continue to have a seat at the table.   Debates over the nature vs. nurture aspects of intelligence are doomed to take  place until the end of time.  Nobody will ever be able to claim they have exhausted this ultimate conundrum of human existence.<br />... .	2000-10-11
US	52940618	R2OYRBDHV1O40T	0446602590	904347155	War and Anti-War: Making Sense of Today's Global Chaos	Books	4	9	10	N	N	Tofflers Help Us To Think More Clearly About War and Peace	One does not need to adhere to the theological claims of Judeo-Christianity to concede that wars, and the rumors of wars, will likely persist  until the end of time.  The at least metaphorical reality of Original Sin is alive and well on planet earth.  Alvin and Heidi Toffler have much  to offer. They, however, seem uncomfortable discussing the innate tendency of human beings to commit evil acts.  An earlier reviewer  referred to the subtle quasi Marxism materialism that seems to pervade their writings.  I think this criticism of the Tofflers is fair.  I strongly  believe, for instance, that the wars of the 21st Century will rarely be about hunger and dire poverty.  Unfortunately,  technological  advancements and the increasing affluence of many parts of the world are not solely sufficient in addressing the existential angst of the  human condition.  The male gender in particular appears to gravitate towards life threatening situations.  The themes of purification through  violence resonate deep within the breasts of men.  There is something to be said concerning the Chinese curse:  &quot;May you live in exciting  times.&quot;  I interpret the &quot;End of History&quot; thesis as the contention that we could be entering into a more harmonious and safer era.  Will this  milieu, though, be found too bland and boring for the male of our species?  The reader may find of further interest my Amazon community  review of the movie &quot;Fight Club&quot; wherein I delve a bit further into this disquieting topic.<br />&quot;War and Anti-War&quot; was originally written in 1993.  The Tofflers book has endured the test of time. The Tofflers correctly predicted the  ability of today's Third Wave satellite technology to monitor questionable activities throughout the world.  Privacy issues will be  debated about the Big Brother implications of this quickly evolving technology.  Nevertheless, the ease and relative low cost of spy satellites  might make it virtually impossible for either ideological terrorists or criminals to develop and mange groups of like-minded individuals.  The  Internet has also evolved to the point where many of us interact with other people throughout the world as just another ho hum, everyday  event.  It's hard to imagine people who communicate on such a regular basis ever going to war against each other.  Religious zealots, racists,  and nationalist extremists, on the other hand, feel increasingly marginalized and overwhelmed by our modern age.  Any group of males  perceiving themselves as psychological, if not spiritually impotent, are always a bona fide threat.  Amazon community reviewer, Robert D.  Steele, is also cited by the Tofflers for taking to task our intelligence agencies exaggerated desire for secrecy.  Steele aptly argues that &quot;the  hidden costs of secrecy are so immense they often outweigh the benefits by a large margin.&quot; This book is of great value for getting one to  think more deeply about how to bring about world peace.  The Tofflers don't claim to have all the answers.  That is why they encourage the reader to join the dialogue.  &quot;War and Anti-War&quot; is a good start for those ready to take a plunge to more profoundly understanding these  literal issues of life and death.ither ideological terrorists or criminals to develop and mange groups of like-minded individuals.  The  Internet has also evolved to the point where many of us interact with other people throughout the world as just another ho hum, everyday  event.  It's hard to imagine people who communicate on such a regular basis ever going to war against each other.  Religious zealots, racists,  and nationalist extremists, on the other hand, feel increasingly marginalized and overwhelmed by our modern age.  Any group of males  perceiving themselves as psychological, if not spiritually impotent, are always a bona fide threat.  Amazon community reviewer, Robert D.  Steele, is also cited by the Tofflers for taking to task our intelligence agencies exaggerated desire for secrecy.  Steele aptly argues that &quot;the  hidden costs of secrecy are so immense they often outweigh the benefits by a large margin.&quot; This book is of great value for getting one to  think more deeply about how to bring about world peace.  The Tofflers don't claim to have all the answers.  That is why they encourage the reader to join the dialogue.  &quot;War and Anti-War&quot; is a good start for those ready to take a plunge to more profoundly understanding these  literal issues of life and death.	2000-10-09
US	52940618	RCMWIGFSBDJXG	0684865777	884714885	The Great Disruption: Human Nature and the Reconstitution of Social Order	Books	5	7	15	N	Y	Francis Fukuyama Seems To Have One Hand Tied Behind His Back	&quot;The Great Disruption&quot; asserts that profound changes of the last thirty years has brought about a cultural paradigm shift unlike any other  previously recorded in human history.  Francis Fukuyama delves into the awkward subject of moral values and their importance in  underpinning a viable democratic social order. One is warned at an early age to think twice before discussing the innately divisive issues of  religion and values.  Fukuyama, however, is a social scientist, and has chosen to tackle this dilemma knowing he risks irritating everyone,  and ultimately satisfying no one.  Furthermore,  Fukuyama enters this fray with one hand tied behind his back.  His membership within a  professional environment demanding empirical data to back up every single claim tends to encourage a mind-set where one may eventually  fail see the forest because the trees get in the way.  I adamantly contend, for instance, that the at least subconscious belief in the rewards and  punishment of an after life is non negotiable in keeping people civilized.  Values are essentially religious in nature.  A dichotomy doesn't  really exist when one profoundly researches the matter.  Self described secularist human beings will always remain a statistical minority.  Alas, how do I prove these  assertions?  I am immediately taken to task by Atheists arguing that I have little evidence to prove what is  actually in their heart of hearts.  Where does one go from here?  The writings of Shakespeare, Mortimer Adler, or a G.K. Chesterton may be  valued, but how does one devise empirical testing of their valuable insights?  Existentialist concerns take a beating when procrustean logical  positivist methods are solely employed to validate their legitimacy.  This challenge essentially turned the philosopher, Ludwig Wittgenstein,  into a confused and tragic figure.  Fukuyama is surviving his ordeal in better fashion than Wittgenstein, but I sense the academic scholar still  feels overwhelmed by the limits of his professional tools.<br />Esperanto is the futile attempt at coldly and analytically inventing a world language.  A mere handful of academics and other peculiar  devotees keep this doomed hope alive. Meticulously planned utopian schemes conflict with an individual's required freedom to create new paradigms when the serendipitous urge strikes their soul. Religion, like language, is also a phenomenon relying heavily upon a pervasive  irrationality and unplanned events to convert the hearts and minds of its loyal adherents.  Unitarianism is the dubious relative of the  Esperanto movement.  This religious organization's total world membership might not fill a good size football field. Fukuyama may accept the  pragmatic importance of religious belief, but does he share my uneasiness when attending a religious ceremony?  The data overwhelmingly  prove that the more conservative religious traditions are organizationally more vibrant and have much higher membership rolls than their  Liberal latitudinarian opposites.  Does this mean that most people desire authoritarian direction? Am I a hypocrite who  argues that religion is great for everybody else but me?  Should I join a religious organization merely to prove solidarity with my next door  neighbors?  Is the general welfare, the so called communitarian social capital, instead better served if I opt to intellectually improve myself by reading the Sunday morning edition of the New York Times?  Also,  am I permitted to make fun of well educated Yuppies who indulge in such peculiar practices as &quot;feng shui?&quot;  Paraphrasing the previously  mentioned G.K. Chesterton, are people who abandon mainstream religions more susceptible in falling for the more bizarre manifestations of  religious practices?  The &quot;true believer&quot; depicted by Eric Hoffer  frighten us far more than the agnostic.  A secular democracy prefers ambiguity to the alternative risk of seeking final answers to questions  that have forever haunted the human condition.  It may be paradoxically conceded that religious faith sustains the typical citizen's desire for  meaning in a heartless and uncaring universe, but aren't we compelled to discourage them from taking it too seriously?  Cutting slack whenever  possible and placing minimal restrictions upon adult behavior seems to work best for our Twenty First century American democracy.  &quot;The Great  Disruption&quot; has few answers, but that is not the fault of the author.  I think it was Michael Oakshott who said that polite and genuine  conversation is our best hope. Francis Fukuyama is to be wholeheartedly credited for assisting us to ask the right questions.  That is why this  book deserves five stars.rever haunted the human condition.  It may be paradoxically conceded that religious faith sustains the typical citizen's desire for  meaning in a heartless and uncaring universe, but aren't we compelled to discourage them from taking it too seriously?  Cutting slack whenever  possible and placing minimal restrictions upon adult behavior seems to work best for our Twenty First century American democracy.  &quot;The Great  Disruption&quot; has few answers, but that is not the fault of the author.  I think it was Michael Oakshott who said that polite and genuine  conversation is our best hope. Francis Fukuyama is to be wholeheartedly credited for assisting us to ask the right questions.  That is why this  book deserves five stars.	2000-10-09
US	52940618	RXF3RZO3P2DZ2	0670886939	928300055	Hitler's Pope: The Secret History of Pius XII	Books	4	15	31	N	N	Was Pius XII Influenced by His Anti-Semitic Surroundings?	John Cornwell, a practicing Roman Catholic, has performed a noble service by refocusing attention upon Pope Pius XII.  Cornwell realizes that his Catholic faith does not rise or fall upon the alleged misdeeds of any single Church leader.  Catholicism claims to be a refuge for sinners, and it has had many good and bad popes in the past two centuries.  The existence of sinful Catholic individuals does not in anyway challenge the validity of the Catholic Faith.  Cornwell firmly establishes that Pope Pius XII was a racial bigot.  Even Pius' fervent supporter, the Jesuit priest, Peter Gumpel conceded this fact to journalist, Ed Bradley, on the TV program, 60 Minutes. Fr. Gumpel acknowledged that at the very end of World War II, the Pope requested that the American military authorities not permit Afro-American soldiers to enter Rome.  Pope Pius XII was concerned that Italian women might be raped by these non-white ground troops. Since this outrageous event is undisputedly true, why is it so difficult to believe that Pope Pius XII also at least subconsciously harbored deep seated indignation towards the Jews?  After all, in traditional Catholic teaching, the Jews were perceived as Christ killers.  Also, incessantly conspiracy theories abounded claiming that Jews plotted the French Revolution, and killed Gentile children during their religious ceremonies.  The consensus view point during Pius XII's early school years was that these &quot;hard-hearted people&quot; supposedly blinded to the obvious truths of Catholicism, deserved every punishment visited upon their heads.  The concept that personal salvation outside of the Catholic Church was impossible dominated the theology of the time. This dogmatic precept was held true for Muslims, non-Catholic Christians, and especially the progeny of those charged with crucifying the Son of God, the Jews.<br />The racist act concerning the American black soldiers is apparently the only recorded incident of the Pope's outright bigotry. The evidence even suggests that Pius XII was never overtly anti-Semitic.  There are indeed hints, but admittedly no absolute proof. The question, however, legitimately remains: would Pius XII have risked more against the Nazis if he truly valued the lives of Jews equally with that of members of his own faith? I adamantly agree with the quoted historian, J.P. Stern, that had the churches &quot;opposed the killing and the persecution of the Jews, as they opposed the (earlier) killing of the congenitally insane and the sick, there would have been no Final Solution.&quot;  John Cornwell has written a book that is too close to the time period of the Nazi horror.  Many of the participants of this tragedy are still alive.  It will probably take another fifty years for many Catholics to concede that pervasive deep seated anti-Semitism inhibited many of its leaders from challenging the Nazi regime during that awful time.The evidence even suggests that Pius XII was never overtly anti-Semitic.  There are indeed hints, but admittedly no absolute proof. The question, however, legitimately remains: would Pius XII have risked more against the Nazis if he truly valued the lives of Jews equally with that of members of his own faith? I adamantly agree with the quoted historian, J.P. Stern, that had the churches &quot;opposed the killing and the persecution of the Jews, as they opposed the (earlier) killing of the congenitally insane and the sick, there would have been no Final Solution.&quot;  John Cornwell has written a book that is too close to the time period of the Nazi horror.  Many of the participants of this tragedy are still alive.  It will probably take another fifty years for many Catholics to concede that pervasive deep seated anti-Semitism inhibited many of its leaders from challenging the Nazi regime during that awful time.	2000-10-05
US	52940618	R2YWX2U1V7K05V	0451201507	608936577	Drudge Manifesto	Books	4	4	4	N	Y	Would We Have To Invent Matt Drudge If He Didn't Exist?	Is Matt Drudge the Media Savior of the World?  If he didn't exist, would we have to invent him?  Matt Drudge is not a great thinker. He is, however, a very honest and decent individual who brilliantly took advantage of the Internet when most of us were essentially bewildered by this new medium.  We take our hats off to the gentleman while bemoaning the fact that our own lack of foresight kept us from doing  likewise. Drudge's conservatism is a relief, and thank God he offers an alternative to the Liberal dominated so called mainstream media.  He  headlines stories often downplayed, if not outright ignored by Drudge's often envious competition.  I can readily imagine the frustration and  anger of the media moguls who can only dream of similarly attracting the enormous eye ball totals that...takes for  granted.  These major corporations have invested far more money and resources than Drudge.<br />Even many Liberals are compelled to grudgingly admire Drudge's persistence and success.  After all, Drudge was only around twenty six  years old when he initially began this precarious venture in his small apartment.  How's that for iconoclasm and sticking it to the  establishment?  Talk about operating on a shoe string budget!  Drudge does not pretend to possess advanced credentials behind his name.  This further galls the elitist media establishment. I'm convinced that our democratic institutions are somewhat in peril when so many people  like myself perceive the general media as hostile and unfair to views of a conservative bent.  The Drudge Report fills a vacuum that should  have never occurred.  This autobiographical book serves the purpose of allowing us to learn more about our hero.  Hillary Clinton should also be  encouraged to purchase a copy for her husband.  This is mandatory reading because the Drudge Report will be around for many years  into the future.  I'm sure that Bill Clinton will be merely one of numerous major figures to regret the very existence of...  A lot of us think that is just wonderful.A lot of us think that is just wonderful.	2000-10-05
US	52940618	R38QNR5XYQZ5CV	1568581416	378169167	The Sound Bite Society: Television and the American Mind	Books	4	2	5	N	Y	Guilt Tripping The American People Is The Only Real Answer	It has been around eleven months since I wrote my Amazon community review of James Fallows', &quot;Breaking the News: How the Media Undermine American Democracy.&quot;  Regrettably, Jeffrey Scheuer shares Fallow's main fault: both men are reluctant in placing the primary blame squarely upon the shoulders of those mostly responsible for the deficiencies of the media---the American people.  Scheuer and Fallows, at least tacitly, embrace the egalitarian notion that the vast majority of our fellow citizens must be perceived only as &quot;victims.&quot; Conveniently overlooked is the cold fact that pertinent information and ideas of value are often relatively inexpensive, if not outright free.  Most Americans are ignorant only because of outright laziness and indifference.  The two authors have slipped into the bad habit of merely preaching to the choir.  The people currently willing to pay attention to their observations are not those who need to be taken to task.<br />Am I saying that the typical American should be obsessed about politics?  On the contrary, it would be a very unhealthy state of affairs if most people focussed exclusively upon the political issues of the day.  I recall the story concerning a European visiting the United States during the Nixon Watergate crisis.  This individual was flabbergasted when visiting a local bar to see that the patrons were watching a sports contest on TV, and nobody was apparently concerned about the upheaval taking place in Washington, D.C.  Many other countries  throughout the world would have experienced bloodshed in the streets.  The laudable strength of our political system is that up to a point,  most of us can ignore politics, and instead concentrate on other aspects of our everyday lives.  A problem occurs, however, when few  citizens invest sufficient time and energy in fulfilling their minimal intellectual duties. For the sake of the argument, I will concede every point  that Jeffrey Scheuer makes in this book.  A society easily seduced by sound bites is indeed flirting with danger.  Watching too much TV,  a  very passive medium, probably does result in the deterioration of one's ability to think and follow a logical argument.  Corporate domination  of our sundry forms of mainstream media disturbs me to no end.  Nevertheless, we live in the greatest nation ever conceived in human  history.  Is somebody pointing a gun at the heads of those who almost exclusively view professional wrestling and the freak show hosted by  Jerry Springer?  Isn't PBS available for free on standard TV?  Aren't most of us able to visit a local library?  Both Fallows and Scheuer  deserve to have an audience for their valuable writings.  I strongly recommend we take their sometimes debatable insights seriously.  They  have earned the right to a hearing and have much to share.  Regretfully, though, I must proverbially slap them upside the head and point out  that little good will be accomplished unless they are willing to guilt trip the majority of their fellow citizens.society easily seduced by sound bites is indeed flirting with danger.  Watching too much TV,  a  very passive medium, probably does result in the deterioration of one's ability to think and follow a logical argument.  Corporate domination  of our sundry forms of mainstream media disturbs me to no end.  Nevertheless, we live in the greatest nation ever conceived in human  history.  Is somebody pointing a gun at the heads of those who almost exclusively view professional wrestling and the freak show hosted by  Jerry Springer?  Isn't PBS available for free on standard TV?  Aren't most of us able to visit a local library?  Both Fallows and Scheuer  deserve to have an audience for their valuable writings.  I strongly recommend we take their sometimes debatable insights seriously.  They  have earned the right to a hearing and have much to share.  Regretfully, though, I must proverbially slap them upside the head and point out  that little good will be accomplished unless they are willing to guilt trip the majority of their fellow citizens.	2000-09-24
US	52940618	RKPUZAHKL0AU5	0815410069	245502305	Mengele: The Complete Story	Books	5	74	95	N	Y	Mengele: A Study in Unapologetic and Pitiless Evil	I do not claim to be an expert in holocaust studies, but I suspect that  the collaboration of Gerald Posner and John Ware on this work dealing with  the diabolically  evil Josef Mengele is among the very best analysis of the  Nazi phenomenon ever put together.  The fact that these two gentlemen were  essentially outsiders who  found themselves thrust into a world and a mind  set alien to their everyday life may have provided them with the  objectivity and clear thinking needed to truly  pursue such an enigma as  Mengele.<br />William Shirer and other foreign journalists had to control an  overwhelming urge to laugh at the Nazis while covering their meetings in  the late 1920's and early  30's.  Nobody took these comical losers  seriously.  The consensus was that the Adolph Hitler and his bizarre  cronies would shortly disappear into political  oblivion never to be heard  from again.  Josef Mengele was barely a teenager during this time and lived  in a solidly upper middle class family that probably would  have snubbed  Hitler, the former WW1 corporal, if their paths had ever crossed.  The  young Mengele was raised a staunch Catholic, a religious belief system he  would later reject for the secular absolutist faith of Nazism.  Nonetheless, it is virtually certain that the pervasive anti-Semitism of  German Catholicism was  Mengele's first introduction to an intense  hostility towards Jews he would forevermore embrace.  Mengele, an  unexceptional student, had a driving ambition to  succeed and make a name  for himself.  It appears that Mengele was indifferent about politics when  he opted to study &quot;anthropology and human genetics, so I could  study  the whole range of medicine.&quot;  This fateful educational choice,  though, would allow Mengele to offer talents to the Nazis who were more  than willing to  reward the young medical student with the respect and  position he so desperately desired. Mengele was a quintessential result of  a politically correct educational  system that prohibited the academic  freedom and search for truth valued as a mandatory norm in viable  democratic societies.  Nazi dogmas pervaded every  department of the  universities during Mengele's critical intellectual formative years.  Dissent was not tolerated.  There simply was no  such thing as a give and  take exchange of ideas that would have revealed the Nazi views on race and  ethnicity as ludicrous ramblings of immature and hateful  minds.  The new  introduction by Michael Berenbaum failed miserably to even deal with the  threat of political correctness to the educational and political  institutions  of modern day America.  Does Berenbaum mistakenly perceive  that Liberals may occasionally goof up, but the real enemy is always to the  Right?  Could this also  explain the peculiar infatuation of many American  Jews with Evita Peron?  Posner and Ware aptly prove that Juan and Evita  Peron provided shelter to fugitive  Nazis and were never friendly towards  Jews.  Do Evita's socialist economic ideas somehow make her seem more  virtuous and humane?  Why were there not  protests and rage directed  towards Andrew Lloyd Webber when his musical was released some twenty years  ago?  Also, the authors never once address the  socialistic economic  policies of the Third Reich.  Hitler's Germany was never in any way, shape,  or form,  a paragon of conservative Libertarian economic values.  Why do  Liberal prefer to downplay, if not outright ignore this fact?<br />Mengele was  sane and easily grasped the reality that people and institutions adhering  to the values of Western Civilization would severely take him to task  if  they  ever got their hands on him.  Often those who primarily advocate a  therapeutic way of looking at the world prefer to believe that someone who  commits the  horrifying crimes of a Josef Mengele are mentally unbalanced.  How does someone torture and murder children and not even require copious  amounts of alcohol  and drugs to get through the day?  The vast majority of  us, thankfully, would not inflict such cruel suffering on animals much less  our fellow human beings.  Yet,  other than Mengele's proclivity of losing  his temper at any given moment, the man would have probably pass a series  of tests dealing with his sanity with flying  colors.  Many people,  especially Mengele's own family, protected him.  The only thing one can say  in their defense is that they perhaps deluded themselves into believing  that someone so dear could not actually commit such horrifying deeds.  Mengele, the convinced Nazi, evaded justice on this side of the grave. The  only real price he paid during  his last years was that of extreme  loneliness and severely restricted finances.  &quot;Mengele: The Complete  Story&quot; reads like a fictional thriller. The book, needless to  add, is  not escapist entertainment.  It may, however, be a moral obligation to read  in order to more completely understand how such monstrous incidents  occurred in  the not so distant past.  We might even learn how to limit  such crimes against humanity in our own century.get through the day?  The vast majority of  us, thankfully, would not inflict such cruel suffering on animals much less  our fellow human beings.  Yet,  other than Mengele's proclivity of losing  his temper at any given moment, the man would have probably pass a series  of tests dealing with his sanity with flying  colors.   Many people,  especially Mengele's own family, protected him.  The only thing one can say  in their defense is that they perhaps deluded themselves into believing  that someone so dear could not actually commit such horrifying deeds.  Mengele, the convinced Nazi, evaded justice on this side of the grave. The  only real price he paid during  his last years was that of extreme  loneliness and severely restricted finances.  &quot;Mengele: The Complete  Story&quot; reads like a fictional thriller. The book, needless to  add, is  not escapist entertainment.  It may, however, be a moral obligation to read  in order to more completely understand how such monstrous incidents  occurred in  the not so distant past.  We might even learn how to limit  such crimes against humanity in our own century.	2000-09-10
US	52940618	R1WOK498EDQO24	0395883237	409505855	Inventing Al Gore: A Biography	Books	4	16	27	N	N	Gore's Driving Ambition is Distrubing	Is there such a thing as desiring the presidency a little toomuch?  The Al Gore depicted by Bill Turque is an ambitious man who will do just about anything to achieve his objectives.  The choice of the title for this book, &quot;Inventing Al Gore,&quot; is right on target.  Gore indeed does come across as a political candidate who reinvents his identity as it is perceived necessary to climb up the political ladder.<br />The author digs deep in Al Gore's family background.  Turque found parents who demanded that their children work hard and excel.  I concede that such noble values are to be congratulated and encouraged.  In Gore's situation, however, the man seems to go just a bit too far.  I kept thinking while reading Turque's analysis that it's unfortunate that Gore did not tone down his ambitious zeal by about 10%.  Bill Turque made it easier for me to understand an Al Gore who is considered even by many of his supporters as stiff, calculating, and overly cautious.  The Vice President reminds me of a man forced to walk across a mine field who fears the next step might be his last.  Turque also questions Gore's ability to be a leader.  I am admittedly a Republican and justifiably can be described as somewhat biased.  Nevertheless, I am uneasy that Gore really has little background of being the person in charge.  Gore seems more suited to be the valuable second in command.  I don't picture Gore as a man who really grasps the concept: &quot;The buck stops here!&quot;<br />Turque's book is now dated.  It was published before Gore won the Democrat nomination.  I still, though, strongly believe that there is sufficient material on Al Gore to be still very relevant for those still deciding how they will vote on election day. This book is unlikely to change the minds of those adamantly for or against Al Gore.  It is the independent moderate voter who will get the most out of reading &quot;Inventing Al Gore.&quot;	2000-08-28
US	52940618	R21SMV60GXYBSY	0385492936	214439381	The Book of Honor: Covert Lives & Classified Deaths at the CIA	Books	4	11	14	N	N	CIA's Top Officers Should be Deeply Ashamed	Ted Gup is a humble man who feels an obligation to those menand women who died in the defense of the greatest nation on earth. The author is not hostile towards the CIA.  He strongly believes, as I do, that reluctantly this organization has a continuing serious role to play in the defense of our liberties.  Alas, we live in a less than perfect world. Human nature is such that forevermore we will likely spy, and at times even discretely perform underhanded mayhem upon our enemies.  A democratic society, however, must strictly monitor its spy agencies so that they do not get carried away and violate the limited mandate granted to them by the nation's elected officials.  The innate secretive aspect of an intelligence organization's duties can seduce its top officers to perceive their actions as above the law and the consensus moral values of a civilized society.<br />This disturbing book echoes the warning of Senator Daniel Patrick Moynihan that the bureaucratic mind set of our spy organizations results in often stamping &quot;top secret&quot; on matters not requiring such extreme caution.  Bureaucrats are generally timid individuals who virtually always prefer choosing the exaggerated safe option to make sure their careers are never jeopardized.  Ted Gup found ample evidence that the CIA's laziness and indifference are usually the only reasons why the names of CIA operatives killed in the line of duty do not receive public acknowledgment.  The surviving family members possess neither the financial resources or the political influence to force the CIA's hand.  A cynic might justifiably conclude that dead agents are out of sight, and therefore out of mind.  I found myself forced to control my rage learning how the names of agents who died 50 years ago are not released because of alleged national security concerns!  I am appalled that both the Republicans and the Democrats have allowed this disgraceful behavior to continue.<br />I was also upset to find out that our CIA slandered the Red Chinese by saying the latter had imprisoned a totally innocent business man. The truth of the matter, Gup had discovered, is that not only was the man a CIA agent, but also probably performed acts of sabotage!  The Communists of China are vicious monsters deserving of our complete and unhesitating moral condemnation.  Nevertheless, their vileness does not excuse our outright lies.  I strongly contend that in the long run such contemptible dishonestly only furthers the cynicism and bitterness of those who otherwise might be converted over to the values of our political system.  Ted Gup's superb book transcends the sometimes nebulous boundaries of conservative and liberal....  These agents died for our sakes---and thus we have no right to forget their sacrifices.slandered the Red Chinese by saying the latter had imprisoned a totally innocent business man. The truth of the matter, Gup had discovered, is that not only was the man a CIA agent, but also probably performed acts of sabotage!  The Communists of China are vicious monsters deserving of our complete and unhesitating moral condemnation.  Nevertheless, their vileness does not excuse our outright lies.  I strongly contend that in the long run such contemptible dishonestly only furthers the cynicism and bitterness of those who otherwise might be converted over to the values of our political system.  Ted Gup's superb book transcends the sometimes nebulous boundaries of conservative and liberal....  These agents died for our sakes---and thus we have no right to forget their sacrifices.	2000-08-28
US	52940618	R32RUDKFMUAER5	0684859440	204140347	Jew Vs Jew: The Struggle For The Soul Of American Jewry	Books	4	16	43	N	N	&quot;Conventional Liberalism was the order of the day&quot;	Samuel Freedman has written a valuable book dealing with the disputes and perhaps irreconcilable differences within the various  American Jewish  factions.  I wish Dr. Freedman, however, had spent a bit more time dealing  with the phenomenon of many American  Jews who &quot;live like  Episcopalians and vote like Puerto Ricans.&quot;  It is also unfortunate  that Vice President Al Gore's selection of Senator  Joseph Lieberman took  place after this book was released.  The anti-Semitism of many Democrat  Afro-Americans has surfaced that may  very well doom the ticket in  November.  &quot;Conventional liberalism was the order of the day,&quot;  recalls a certain Michael Horowitz. &quot;There  was a notion all it took  to solve social problems was the application of goodwill,&quot; added the  Yale graduated attorney of the class of 1964.  I strongly believe that  Horowitz and other Liberals have often inadvertently caused tremendous  damage by unwittingly encouraging  minority groups like the Afro-American  to essentially wallow in self pity and perceive themselves as victims.  The  cynical adage that no  good deed goes unpunished seems quite appropriate  when discussing this matter.<br />Many Jewish-Americans seem to an outsider  like myself to be living in the past. The superb film &quot;Gentleman's  Agreement&quot; was released  in 1947 and aptly depicted the anti-Semitism  pervading the affluent gentile classes of New England.  I concede that a  subtle WASP  anti-Semitism of the &quot;some of my best friends are  Jews&quot; variety persists even today.  Yet, aren't there far more  examples of anti-Semitism  within the Democrat Party than among Republican  voters?  I am unaware of any recent studies to support my thesis. Is that  perhaps due  to my ignorance of these possible studies, or is the Liberal  inclined academic community fearful of what it might find out?<br />I have an  overwhelming admiration of Jewish life.  There is no foolish dichotomy in  either the secularist or the more orthodox traditions  regarding maleness  and education.  The prevalent tacit belief in the Afro-American and  Hispanic communities that &quot;real men&quot; don't pursue  intellectual  brilliance has done much to eviscerate the social and educational  development of these two ethnic groups.  I find favorable  similarities in  shock radio star, Howard Stern, and the neo-conservative thinker, Irving  Kristol.  Both gentlemen were pushed hard to do  something special with  their lives.  The very idea of pursuing a risk free 9 to 5 way of earning a  living is alien to them.  The criteria of  how one judges success is  sometimes a nebulous concept, but all agree that the combination of an  obsessive work ethic and willingness to  undergo extraordinary trials is  unavoidable.  Jewish men embrace these necessary values as an everyday  reality.  Many of their non-Jewish  neighbors do not.  The latter often  become envious and bitter, unwilling to take responsibility for their own  failures.<br />Professor Freedman also delves into the dilemma of whether Jews  should make a special effort to preserve their race and traditions.  I  possess an ambivalent attitude towards the furthering of this mind set.  American pluralism innately discourages ethnic solidarity---and I am  more  happy than sad that this occurs.  The United States is truly a melting pot,  and it is my strong hope that intermarriage and advanced  thinking leads to  a new millennium where books like &quot;Jew vs. Jew&quot; will seem to our  great grandchildren as historical works of a quaint  and fortunately  distant past.  I immensely enjoyed Samuel Freedman's book, but in the long  run we should all desire it to become  irrelevant.secularist or the more orthodox traditions  regarding maleness  and education.  The prevalent tacit belief in the Afro-American and  Hispanic communities that &quot;real men&quot; don't pursue  intellectual  brilliance has done much to eviscerate the social and educational  development of these two ethnic groups.  I find favorable  similarities in  shock radio star, Howard Stern, and the neo-conservative thinker, Irving  Kristol.  Both gentlemen were pushed hard to do  something special with  their lives.  The very idea of pursuing a risk free 9 to 5 way of earning a  living is alien to them.  The criteria of  how one judges success is  sometimes a nebulous concept, but all agree that the combination of an  obsessive work ethic and willingness to  undergo extraordinary trials is  unavoidable.  Jewish men embrace these necessary values as an everyday  reality.  Many of their non-Jewish  neighbors do not.  The latter often  become envious and bitter, unwilling to take responsibility for their own  failures.<br />Professor Freedman also delves into the dilemma of whether Jews  should make a special effort to preserve their race and traditions.  I   possess an ambivalent attitude towards the furthering of this mind set.  American pluralism innately discourages ethnic solidarity---and I am  more  happy than sad that this occurs.  The United States is truly a melting pot,  and it is my strong hope that intermarriage and advanced  thinking leads to  a new millennium where books like &quot;Jew vs. Jew&quot; will seem to our  great grandchildren as historical works of a quaint  and fortunately  distant past.  I immensely enjoyed Samuel Freedman's book, but in the long  run we should all desire it to become  irrelevant.	2000-08-20
US	52940618	R2DVFDIMQSP74L	0684854848	919570880	Blind Eye: How the Medical Establishment Let a Doctor Get Away with Murder	Books	4	43	45	N	N	Why Was Dr. Michael Swango Allowed A Second Chance?	In most instances, writers put together a book about people and events in the past tense.  James B. Stewart,  though, soon realized after starting  this book that he had become an active participant in a drama to stop a  murderer from killing again.  Stewart had a duty to put a stop to this  terror.  What might possibly motivate Dr. Swango?  The doctor did not seem  to financially benefit  from these deaths.  There is also no evidence  whatsoever that Swango was prompted by any misguided  humanitarian  concerns.  Dr. Swango's apparent only  motivation is the psychopathic  thrill of putting his fellow human beings to death.  He seems indifferent  and callous towards all suffering. There are strong  suspicions that Swango  even murdered his loyal wife.  A court of law will likely convict Swango in  the near  future. The questions will still remain, however, concerning the  scandalous behavior of the legal  establishment that allowed this horror to  continue long after it was obvious a serious problem existed.<br />I was  morally and intellectually appalled by an earlier Amazon review by an  anonymous &quot;reader from Omaha, N.E.,&quot;  a  medical professional,  who had the audacity to charge the author, James B. Stewart, with biased  reporting.  These comments should be read by all who are trying to  understand how Dr. Swango was allowed to  continue his criminal behavior  for so many years.  One should indeed take it for granted that the Dr.  Swangos are the exception, not the rule.  Most medical facilities probably  would not have hired Dr, Swango  after his conviction for poisoning his  fellow co-workers. That's not the point.  Once is enough. The disgrace  is  that there were not sufficient procedures in place nationally to prevent  Dr. Swango from ever again  practicing medicine.  A single conviction of  such magnitude should have ended the career of Dr. Swango in  1985.  The  following murders resulted from the gross arrogance and incompetence of a  medical community  concerned primarily in preserving its power and  privileges.  A democratic society must not allow  professional  establishments to protect their own regardless of the consequences upon the  wider community.  Lay people must not be excluded from directly overseeing  the behavior of the professionals.  The latter  deserve respect, but not  our unquestioning laissez faire toleration. The recent actions of the  American  Medical Association in preventing legislation to prevent a  reoccurrence of another Dr. Swango is outrageous  to say the least.  The  new motto for the AMA should be &quot;We protect our own, and the general  public should  go to hell!&quot;<br />Thank God James B. Stewart zealously  pursued this story.  The overwhelming probability is that without Stewart's  efforts---Dr. Swango would still be killing patients.  Many people owe  their very lives to Stewart.  It would also be sad if this book is merely  perceived as a superbly written true story about a particular  murderer.  &quot;Blind Eye&quot; is also a disturbing commentary how power and  cowardice corrupts professional groups who have forgotten that their first  duty is to the general public, and not to their own membership.l community  concerned primarily in preserving its power and  privileges.  A democratic society must not allow  professional  establishments to protect their own regardless of the consequences upon the  wider community.   Lay people must not be excluded from directly overseeing  the behavior of the professionals.  The latter  deserve respect, but not  our unquestioning laissez faire toleration. The recent actions of the  American  Medical Association in preventing legislation to prevent a  reoccurrence of another Dr. Swango is outrageous  to say the least.  The  new motto for the AMA should be &quot;We protect our own, and the general  public should  go to hell!&quot;<br />Thank God James B. Stewart zealously  pursued this story.  The overwhelming probability is that without Stewart's   efforts---Dr. Swango would still be killing patients.  Many people owe  their very lives to Stewart.   It would also be sad if this book is merely  perceived as a superbly written true story about a particular  murderer.   &quot;Blind Eye&quot; is also a disturbing commentary how power and  cowardice corrupts professional groups who have forgotten that their first  duty is to the general public, and not to their own membership.	2000-08-12
US	52940618	R1985Y55ZP71MP	0525945245	976247392	The Debt : What America Owes to Blacks	Books	3	27	42	N	N	Randall Robinson Is Taking The Wrong Road Towards Redemption	Randall Robinson has written a book that inadvertently causes more harm than good.  The gentleman's central argument may succeed in an  abstract  college debate atmosphere, but it still leaves something to be desired in  the world of diverse human beings enduring their own just  grievances.  It  has the practical relevance similar to a debate forum choosing the question  whether the English language should dominate our  laws and culture.  Regardless of who wins the debate, English will not be replaced anytime in  the near future.<br />Afro-Americans indeed do have much to be angry about  concerning their unjust predicament.  Nevertheless, Robinson's  encouragement for  blacks to wallow in an attitude of &quot;they owe  me&quot; accomplishes little.  Furthermore, it eviscerates the  Afro-American individual who has  bought into this mindset both  psychologically and spiritually.  Do black people truly want to perceive  themselves as victims?  The universe is  not always fair, and ultimate  justice is only promised in the next world.  In this vale of tears, a  pragmatic approach is often the best and only  way to overcome past wrongs,  and seek current solutions to the difficulties of poverty and  discrimination. Robinson compares the  Afro-American situation to that of  the allies after World War I, and the Jews after World II. Unfortunately,  this half true analogy overlooks  the nebulousness of deciding which  American caucasians directly owe their fellow black citizens.  I am a white  man and thus Robinson may  take what I say with a hugh grain of salt.  Nevertheless, I dare suggest that Robinson look to his Asian-American  brothers and sisters for  guidance on this matter.  The tacit consensus  attitude of these Americans of Oriental descent who have suffered similar  mistreatment is  exactly the opposite of Mr. Robinson. They have realized  that the here and now is all we really have.  Living in the past is simply  wasting  valuable time and energy.  The goal of equal treatment is  diligently pursued, but the possession of an ardent work ethic and the  striving for educational betterment is deemed of at least equal importance.  The result is that the Asian American populace rates high in  economic  wherewithal and social standing. I consider Randall Robinson a very decent  and honorable man, but I cannot recommend this  book.  Do I seem unduly  harsh towards Mr. Robinson?  I recommend the reader also takes a look at my  blistering Amazon community  criticism of Charles Murray's &quot;The Bell  Curve.&quot;  Discussions of these awkward issues deserve brutal honesty  and forthrightness.  I owe Mr.  Robinson the respect that he can handle the  truth.  It would be contemptuous of me to treat him as something akin to a  child.f equal treatment is  diligently pursued, but the possession of an ardent work ethic and the   striving for educational betterment is deemed of at least equal importance.   The result is that the Asian American populace rates high in  economic  wherewithal and social standing. I consider Randall Robinson a very decent  and honorable man, but I cannot recommend this  book.  Do I seem unduly  harsh towards Mr. Robinson?  I recommend the reader also takes a look at my  blistering Amazon community  criticism of Charles Murray's &quot;The Bell  Curve.&quot;  Discussions of these awkward issues deserve brutal honesty  and forthrightness.  I owe Mr.  Robinson the respect that he can handle the  truth.  It would be contemptuous of me to treat him as something akin to a  child.	2000-08-12
US	52940618	R2WC42CGZUN8JE	0060193921	918268191	State of a Union: Inside the Complex Marriage of Bill and Hillary Clinton	Books	3	35	53	N	N	Is This The Straw That Broke The Proverbial Camel's Back?	I am writing these comments in the early part of August.  The real question,  though, is how will this book be perceived the day after the  national election in November.  It is virtually certain, whether it's fair  or not, that  Hillary Clinton's attempt to become New York's next U.S.  Senator has been destroyed by the charge of an anti-Semitic remark of over  two  decades ago.  Is it true?  Also, even if the accusation is accurate,  does Mrs. Clinton deserve forgiveness?  One could engage in much abstract  speculation and moral inquiry into the larger issues of Hillary Clinton's  predicament. Nevertheless, in the practical realm, she is in dire straits.  The First Lady needs solid and overwhelming Jewish support if she is to  have any realistic chance against her Republican challenger, Rick  Lazio.  Recent polls already indicate that Hillary Clinton is unlikely to regain  the trust of a sufficient number of Jewish voters to salvage her  campaign.<br />I am uncomfortable that there are not more witnesses to confirm  this allegation. Yet, isn't Jerry Oppenheimer simply doing his job?  Some  people will question Oppenheimer's credibility because of his National  Enquirer past. That argument is simply fallacious.  The  National Enquirer  is admittedly a scandal sheet, but it is still highly regarded for  meticulously and thoroughly double checking facts before  approving them  for print.  A former campaign worker has gone on record with his incendiary  claims.  How can the media not report the  story?  Shouldn't we be outraged  if these charges were ignored?  I think that a fair and objective person,  regardless of how they feel towards  Hillary Clinton, must conclude that  the media are placed before a rock and hard place when forced to decide how  to handle such a dilemma.  The reader may notice that I am ignoring the  other aspects of Oppenheimer's book.  I am doing so because in the long run  the anti-Semitic  charge is the only reason why it will be remembered.  Historians may very well refer to this book as the one that demolished the  Clinton  family's last hope for political and perhaps even personal  redemption.  The impact of this book far outweighs its intrinsic value.  I  am sure  that we will still be discussing it many years into the future.ered.   Historians may very well refer to this book as the one that demolished the  Clinton  family's last hope for political and perhaps even personal  redemption.  The impact of this book far outweighs its intrinsic value.  I  am sure  that we will still be discussing it many years into the future.	2000-08-04
US	52940618	R3GHNVOQUP61U9	0684824299	318460719	Bell Curve: Intelligence and Class Structure in American Life (A Free Press Paperbacks Book)	Books	3	15	28	N	N	Murray Is To Blame That Page 47 Did Not Dominate Debate	The authors of &quot;The Bell Curve&quot; were disingenuous when complaining that the media unfairly focussed upon the controversial racial aspect  of this study.  They conveniently overlooked the fact that their  publisher, The Free Press, did everything it could to highlight the issue.  This  substantially helped to sell a lot of books.  Richard J. Herrnstein  died soon after the release of this work.  Thus, my following remarks will  be  directed towards Charles Murray.  I wholehearted regret that the topics  raised on page 47 did not instead dominate the debate.  Page 47  alone is  well worth the price of this book.  I constantly refer to this page many  time throughout a given year.  Page 47 so aptly depicts the  increasing  social and cultural divide between the educated elite and the hoi polloi.  The former often fail to realize how different they are  from those less  educated and economically well off.  I will give the reader a sneak preview  by directly quoting the following: &quot;Think of your  twelve closest  friends or colleagues. For most readers of this book, a large majority will  be college graduates. Does it surprise you to learn  that the odds of  having even half of them be college graduates are only six in a thousand,  if people were randomly paired off. Many of you  will not think it odd that  half or more of the dozen have advanced degrees. But the odds against  finding such a result among a randomly  chosen group of twelve Americans  are actually more than a million to one.&quot;<br />I generally agree with  just about everything that Charles Murray says concerning poverty issues  and how best to address the problems of  the permanent underclass.  Murray  is normally a superb thinker deserving of much respect.  Nonetheless, in  regards to &quot;The Bell Curve,&quot; I  find it necessary to take my hero  to task.  I cannot,  for instance, accept Murray's bizarre assertion that a  study of possible racial differences  in I.Q.  serves us well in devising  viable social policies.  How could this possibly occur?  Let us for a  moment, for the sake of argument,  embrace the premise that Orientals place  first in the overall intelligence curve, whites rank second, and blacks  linger behind in third place. Do  we therefore tacitly, if not explicitly,  create regulations with this assumption in mind?  How do politicians carry  out this agenda?  Will such  thinking result in a presidential campaign  platform resolution? Should Afro-Americans concede their supposed innate  inferiority, and happily  go along with plans directing them to employment  and a life style more conducive to those with fewer qualities to offer a  competitive  world?  Murray contends that these studies only indicate a  general average of racial intelligence, and that a black individual per se  may  actually be the smartest person on this planet.  So what?  Social  policies are primarily based on the majority of those under discussion, not  the  exceptions.  Any governmental or social guidelines underpinned with  the notion that black people are dumber than their fellow citizens will  most certainly stigmatize everyone under that dubious racial  classification.  What is race anyway?  The very definition is murky and  confusing.  Also, the very concept of human intelligence will remain  forevermore intrinsically nebulous.  Studies currently released are likely  to be contradicted in the future.  Test tubes and other artifacts of the  hard sciences do not begin to exhaust this supreme mystery of homo  sapien  existence. A million years from now our progeny will still be debating  these frustrating and puzzling matters.  Murray has made a  fool of  himself.  He has latched onto a band wagon inevitably doomed to crash and  burn.  Charles Murray, however, has this much going  for himself: the man  is still young enough to redirect his energies and I.Q. to other areas of  study promising to be far more beneficial to the  total human race.in devising  viable social policies.  How could this possibly occur?  Let us for a  moment, for the sake of argument,  embrace the premise that Orientals place  first in the overall intelligence curve, whites rank second, and blacks  linger behind in third place. Do  we therefore tacitly, if not explicitly,  create regulations with this assumption in mind?  How do politicians carry  out this agenda?  Will such  thinking result in a presidential campaign  platform resolution? Should Afro-Americans concede their supposed innate  inferiority, and happily  go along with plans directing them to employment  and a life style more conducive to those with fewer qualities to offer a  competitive  world?  Murray contends that these studies only indicate a  general average of racial intelligence, and that a black individual per se  may  actually be the smartest person on this planet.  So what?  Social  policies are primarily based on the majority of those under discussion, not  the  exceptions.  Any governmental or social guidelines underpinned with  the notion that black people are dumber than their fellow citizens will   most certainly stigmatize everyone under that dubious racial  classification.  What is race anyway?  The very definition is murky and   confusing.  Also, the very concept of human intelligence will remain  forevermore intrinsically nebulous.  Studies currently released are likely   to be contradicted in the future.  Test tubes and other artifacts of the  hard sciences do not begin to exhaust this supreme mystery of homo  sapien  existence. A million years from now our progeny will still be debating  these frustrating and puzzling matters.  Murray has made a  fool of  himself.  He has latched onto a band wagon inevitably doomed to crash and  burn.  Charles Murray, however, has this much going  for himself: the man  is still young enough to redirect his energies and I.Q. to other areas of  study promising to be far more beneficial to the  total human race.	2000-07-30
US	52940618	RJ8CHE8NYOCF8	046503912X	952723106	Code: And Other Laws Of Cyberspace	Books	4	2	2	N	Y	Internet is Simply Another Frontier Requiring Government	Many people wrongly perceive the Internet as a frontier unlike no other in human history.  The immature comments of John Perry  Barlow is indicative of this mindset:  &quot;Governments of the Industrial World, you weary  giants of flesh and steel, I come from Cyberspace,  the new home of the  Mind. On behalf of the future, I ask you of the past to leave us alone. You  are not welcome among us. You have no  sovereignty where we gather.&quot;  Mr. Barlow takes for granted the protections and privileges afforded to us  by our police departments,  court systems, and military. These governmental  entities perhaps do their job too well.  This has resulted in allowing  those possessing a  flower child anarchist mentality to deny that  government is mandatory in underpinning a viable social order.  Lawrence  Lessig recalls the  naivet&eacute; of those advocating radical capitalist economic  measures immediately after the fall of Communism.  It was overlooked that  without an established rule of law, the evolution of the Russian economy  would be impossible.<br />The Internet is simply another frontier requiring  government.  It's just that simple.  There is no reason to overcomplicate  the obvious.  Cyberspace is akin to the nascent beginnings of America's  past.  The early settlers braved their way into the new uncharted  territories.  They initially formed rudimentary private associations to  respond to the challenges confronting their everyday lives.  Inevitably,  though,  lynch mobs left much to be desired.  Property disputes had to be  resolved, and the weak protected from the more powerful.  Nature  abhors a  vacuum.  Somebody is going to be dictating the rules and regulations of the  Internet.  Lessig contends that our democratically  elected governments  should be the ultimate authority to decide these awkward and troubling  issues. John Perry Barlow, AT&amp;T, AOL,  and the myriad other  individuals, non profit groups, and businesses must definitely not be  excluded from participating in the formulation  of these desperately needed  new laws, but none should have the final say.  Should we be wary of  granting power to the government?  The answer is an adamant yes.  The  enactment of carefully crafted checks and balances is still an unavoidable  necessity.  Winston Churchill rightfully cautioned us that democratic  institutions are messy,  fragile, and somewhat yucky to behold, but far  better than all of the alternative political systems devised in human  history.  Ultra  Libertarians make much of this lack of perfection.  Alas,  so did Hitler, Stalin, Mussolini, and other tyrants.  Democracy is  unpalatable to  all extremists embracing the delusion that utopia is  attainable in this vale of tears.<br />Lawrence Lessig has written a brilliant  book that should be read by all.  It would be a mistake for the reader to  seriously wonder if Lessig's book published late in the previous century  might be dated.  On the contrary, he addresses both the philosophical  premises and  practical issues that will remain relevant long into the next  few decades.  I am hoping that some television network might even do a  series  on &quot;Code.&quot;  Also, it is best that readers living in the  United States not allow their presidential candidates the luxury of  ignoring the  controversial questions raised by Dr. Lessig.from participating in the formulation  of these desperately needed  new laws, but none should have the final say.  Should we be wary of  granting power to the government?   The answer is an adamant yes.  The  enactment of carefully crafted checks and balances is still an unavoidable  necessity.  Winston Churchill rightfully cautioned us that democratic  institutions are messy,  fragile, and somewhat yucky to behold, but far  better than all of the alternative political systems devised in human  history.  Ultra  Libertarians make much of this lack of perfection.  Alas,  so did Hitler, Stalin, Mussolini, and other tyrants.  Democracy is  unpalatable to  all extremists embracing the delusion that utopia is  attainable in this vale of tears.<br />Lawrence Lessig has written a brilliant  book that should be read by all.  It would be a mistake for the reader to  seriously wonder if Lessig's book published late in the previous century  might be dated.  On the contrary, he addresses both the philosophical  premises and  practical issues that will remain relevant long into the next  few decades.  I am hoping that some television network might even do a  series  on &quot;Code.&quot;  Also, it is best that readers living in the  United States not allow their presidential candidates the luxury of  ignoring the  controversial questions raised by Dr. Lessig.	2000-07-09
US	52940618	RAO5ZO1ABOFIG	0684824035	250686735	Radio Priest: Charles Coughlin, The Father of Hate Radio	Books	4	23	39	N	N	Fr. Charles E. Coughlin: Radio Priest of Evil	Over twenty years ago, I briefly met the aging Fr. Charles E. Coughlin.  It was coincidental that only a short time earlier, the Catholic  Church had come out with a proclamation declaring that the Jews were no longer  perceived as the killers of Christ.  I don't believe that  Coughlin and I  exchanged ten sentences.  Nonetheless, I readily recall Coughlin's  irritation towards this vatican decree.  I also realized that I could no  longer delude myself that Coughlin was merely misunderstood and vilified by  a secularist Liberal media.  A few days later I  called into the radio talk  program of David Newman of WXYZ Radio.  I shared with Newman's audience my  new conclusions concerning  the infamous Radio Priest.  This revelation did  not go over well with my fellow right-wing Catholics who were dismayed by  my candor.  I  was at that time the Detroit Vice President of a reactionary  group calling itself &quot;Catholics United for the Faith,&quot; a listed  contributor of the ultra-conservative weekly, &quot;The Wanderer,&quot; and  an occasional guest on the local radio and TV circuit representing that  point of  view.<br />Most people not raised within a highly authoritarian  Catholic milieu cannot begin to understand the mind boggling power of a  parish  pastor.  In the pre-Vatican American Catholic Church, the world  literally revolved around the very ambitious Fr. Coughlin.  I am sure his  word was law, and nobody dared oppose even his minor whims.  Coughlin  answered to virtually no one.  It may be best to imagine  Coughlin as  something akin to an emperor of a mythical kingdom set in a fairy tale. The  late Donald Warren, for instance, produced  overwhelming evidence that Fr.  Coughlin could have easily been convicted of tax fraud. This priest did not  hesitate to spend on himself  large sums of many donated to the Shrine.  Where were the auditors?  Once again, it behooves me to reiterate that  Coughlin answered  only to his bishop.  On a practical level, this resulted  in rare and mild inquiries into his activities. I might also add something  that the  Warren and other scholars should have emphasized further:  Coughlin's parish, the Shrine of the Little Flower, was technically in the  Detroit Archdiocese, but situated far out in the boonies.  This was one  very isolated parish during Coughlin's heyday. All telephone calls  between  the downtown chancery building and Coughlin's residence were most certainly  charged long distance rates.  I have often  wondered if Fr. Coughlin would  have gotten so out of balance if he was geographically closer to his  superiors.  The only priests Coughlin  dealt with on a daily basis were  those under his total control.  Coughlin interacted little with clerics  equal in status and authority.<br />Dr. Warren has been taken to task by some  in failing to reveal Fr. Coughlin at the deeper levels of his personality.  I believe this criticism  to be patently unfair.  It is my guess that  nobody ever got that close to this enigmatic man.  Fr. Coughlin probably  engaged in sexual  relations with at least one woman.  There was also other  behavior hard to justify for a man committed to the priesthood.  Reconciling the  two incompatible lives may have forced Coughlin to  distance himself from warm and healthy relationships that most humans take  for  granted.  This could also explain how Coughlin, a banal and shallow  man could delude himself that he possessed a profound mind  concerning  world history and economics.  Most of us exist in a give and take world  that doesn't hesitate to take us to task for our  intellectual failings.  One would be forced to present hard evidence of an alleged Jewish  conspiracy to take over the world.  We would be  held up to ridicule if our  argumentation was found wanting.  The Radio Priest made sure he would never  be placed in such a  predicament.  Coughlin essentially ignored those who  disagreed with him.<br />Fr. Coughlin's involvement in the &quot;AmericaFirst&quot; movement with Charles Lindbergh did much to curtail our  nation's preparation for  World War II.  It may be argued that without  Coughlin, this movement would have never gained such clout.  How many lives  were  ultimately lost because of Fr. Coughlin?  I am sure the numbers are  horrendously high.  We must never forget Fr. Coughlin.  I would like  to  think that history will never again repeat itself, but realistic enough to  know that another Fr. Coughlin is always lurking in the  shadows.  Let us  be better prepared the next time such evil is in our midst.erica  First&quot; movement with Charles Lindbergh did much to curtail our  nation's preparation for  World War II.  It may be argued that without  Coughlin, this movement would have never gained such clout.  How many lives  were  ultimately lost because of Fr. Coughlin?  I am sure the numbers are  horrendously high.  We must never forget Fr. Coughlin.  I would like  to  think that history will never again repeat itself, but realistic enough to  know that another Fr. Coughlin is always lurking in the  shadows.  Let us  be better prepared the next time such evil is in our midst.	2000-07-06
US	52940618	R3UKGWHCCBULF	0679445463	222176832	The Unwanted Gaze: The Destruction of Privacy in America	Books	4	2	6	N	Y	The Shame Of Our Adversarial Legal System	I share Jeffrey Rosen's anger over the victimization of Lawrence Lessig.  The Harvard University Law  scholar's humorous and casual remarks about the software giant were unethically taken out of context.  This resulted in  forcing Lessig to resign his post as the Microsoft &quot;special  master.&quot;  It is, however, an earlier incident ignored by Rosen that  requires our current attention. During the murder trial of O.J. Simpson,  Detective Mark Furhman was viciously attacked for using the &quot;n&quot;  word.  The Liberal media had a field day deriding this man for simply  employing the word regardless of how it might have been used in a  conversation. Rosen warns us to be wary of taking statements out of  context.  Yet, few legal scholars, if any, realized the precedent being set  during the lynching of Detective Furhman. The Afro-American comedian, Chris  Rock, never hesitates to joke about &quot;niggers&quot; and he is paid well  for doing so.  I have heard the &quot;n&quot; word used warmly between  black males often in my life.  Furhman, however, was not allowed the  opportunity to explain the context of his words.  Johnny Cochrane was  permitted in a court of law to demand of Furhman if the latter had simply  ever uttered the &quot;n&quot; word.  Judge Ito disgracefully allowed  Cochrane to get away with this outrage.  The law departments of our major  universities shamed themselves by their silence.<br />Words are intrinsically  nebulous.  Language is a discipline belonging primarily to the Liberal  Arts, and not the hard sciences.  There is inherently no such thing as  the  unchanging and absolute meaning of any word.  Literal language does not  exist on our planet.  The absolute letter of the law is a senseless  concept.  Ultimately, the spirit of the law is all we have separating us  from Armageddon.  It is merely a matter of the probability or outside  possibility of how certain words are to be interpreted. This why I also  argue that we will never engage, Bill Joy notwithstanding,  in a give and  take conversation with a computer.  Stanley Kubrick's &quot;HAL,&quot; will  forevermore remain a fictional character.  The meaning of a particular word  is always subjective.  This is neither the time and place for me to go into  greater detail,  but the philosophical deconstructionists mistakenly  conclude that we should therefore abandon ourselves to nihilistic  relativism and unbridled skepticism. Nevertheless, words are of no value  unless put into proper context.  It is both the logical and moral duty of  individuals to make sure that they do their best to prudentially understand  the whole context of another's words.<br />Professor Rosen should invest time  and energy reevaluating our almost sacred doctrinal adherence to our  adversarial legal system.  His concerns regarding privacy  issues make  little sense unless the very premise of our system of justice is taken to  task.  The disgusting and vile doctrine encourages the ruthless disregard  of truth and justice. Our adversarial legal system inevitably deteriorates  into something akin to a game with debatable rules in which only victory at  any cost is to be valued.  Laws based on an adversarial set of guidelines  eventually seduce the wider culture.  This encourages the mindset that  anything and everything goes as long as one cannot  be arrested or sued for  their misbehavior. Originally in our nation's history, the destruction of  the adversarial principle was limited because of a tacit agreement not to  abuse the system.  In the 21st Century, though, attorneys normally lie and  offer the excuse that their words might through a bizarre interpretation  mean the opposite of their common usage.  President Bill Clinton, for  instance, is a splendid example of this decline when he lied about having  sex with Monica Lewinsky. Vigorous advocacy of our rights is appropriate  and mandatory if our democratic society is to survive.  I strongly reject  the concept thatan individual should be presumed guilty until proven  innocent.  It is foolish, however, to pretend that we must either embrace  the evil principle of adversarial justice, or American  Democracy is  unsustainable.  The less extreme principle of vigorous advocacy is  pragmatic and workable.  I suggest that Jeffrey Rosen tackle this subject  in his  future writings.  It behooves Rosen to go a bit deeper into the  subject of privacy. His present book is well done, but it essentially puts  the proverbial cart before the horse.an individual should be presumed guilty until proven  innocent.  It is foolish, however, to pretend that we must either embrace  the evil principle of adversarial justice, or American  Democracy is  unsustainable.  The less extreme principle of vigorous advocacy is  pragmatic and workable.  I suggest that Jeffrey Rosen tackle this subject  in his  future writings.  It behooves Rosen to go a bit deeper into the  subject of privacy. His present book is well done, but it essentially puts  the proverbial cart before the horse.	2000-07-04
US	52940618	RK4Z36QG947C8	0684832836	22408140	Bowling Alone: The Collapse and Revival of American Community	Books	4	22	24	N	Y	Putnam And The Flip Side Of McLuhan's Village Prophecy	Over thirty years ago Marshall McLuhan predicted that the world would inevitably become more like a village. Technological advances  promised to bring people separated by long distances closer together.  The overlooked  logical conclusion, however, of this line of reasoning,  was that this  expanding village would ultimately devalue relationships primarily premised  upon proximity.  Our next door neighbors might  become less important to  us.  This rightfully alarms Robert Putnam, and I'm personally relieved that  these issues are not being ignored.  Yet,  unlike Professor Putnam, I  believe that the good far outweighs the bad.  The tradeoffs seem to be  justified.  Our current relationships, it can  be argued, are becoming more  genuine because location is increasingly less important when choosing  friends and associates.  Also, the clock  will not be turned back; this  genie will not be put back into the bottle.  There may even be something of  a &quot;Moore's Law&quot; inexorably  pushing us ahead whether we like it  or not.  Stop the world, I want to get off, is simply not a viable  option.<br />I barely say hello to my  neighbors.  We don't even know each  others' names.  Nonetheless,  we are polite towards each other and  occasionally do favors when one of us is in need.  I find nothing awkward  or cold regarding this arrangement.  We simply have little in  common. Do  our immediate physical communities inordinately suffer because of these  evolving relationships?  Or is there a &quot;trickle down&quot;  effect  rewarding everyone?  I adamantly respond that the benefits are enormous if  we are truly becoming better people for forming stronger  and more  enriching relationships.  One should not ignore that cold fact that many  people in the past lived lives of quiet desperation. You  were often stuck  in destructive and eviscerating relationships because it was very difficult  to travel regularly more than a few miles away  from your front door. Human  beings usually lived out their complete existence within a 50 miles radius  from whence they were born.<br />I do not wish to take Bob Putnam's concerns  lightly.  The man is not a Luddite looking for any excuse to mock our new  brave world. We  must indeed be cautious not to be rude and indifferent  towards those sharing our immediate geographical space.  I am merely far  more  optimistic.  The human race initially stumbles a bit when confronted  by new technology.  Eventually, though, we get back on our feet,  discuss  the problems, and work out a reasonable resolution.usually lived out their complete existence within a 50 miles radius  from whence they were born.<br />I do not wish to take Bob Putnam's concerns  lightly.  The man is not a Luddite looking for any excuse to mock our new  brave world. We  must indeed be cautious not to be rude and indifferent  towards those sharing our immediate geographical space.  I am merely far  more  optimistic.  The human race initially stumbles a bit when confronted  by new technology.  Eventually, though, we get back on our feet,  discuss  the problems, and work out a reasonable resolution.	2000-07-03
US	52940618	R12077PD4DSRDJ	0195093836	665697428	There's No Such Thing As Free Speech: And It's a Good Thing, Too	Books	2	13	22	N	N	Fish is Right: Censorship is Intrinsically Unavoidable	Stanley Fish takes advantage of the fact that many people fail to grasp an essential aspect regarding all human communities: censorship is unavoidable  and intrinsic. It is inherently impossible to do otherwise.  The only  legitimate question is how extensive and invasive the censorship of the  society will be. We are all censors and somebody will ultimately decide if  and when someone has gone too far in violating the values that the overall  group considers heretical. It's only a question where one draws the line.  Everybody practices censorship.  All societies must select and impose the  values considered non negotiable.  Heretics of either religious or secular  dogmas are always punished.  The philosophical premises of Logical  Positivism are insufficient to underpin our democratic culture.  Reasonable  certitude is  epistemologically the best humans can achieve.  &quot;Political correctness&quot; is actually a neutral term.  The only  real debate is over the situations demanding tacit or explicit prohibition.  Language is intrinsically nebulous.  The meanings of words mutate  endlessly.  So what?  Deconstructionism is merely the mistaken notion that  since words cannot be preserved from inevitable change that logically we  cannot oppose the forces of Nihilism. We might, for example, feel yucky  about the murder of  innocents in a concentration camp, but this is mere  sentiment and not the result of rational thinking.  Fish is simply taking  advantage of our society's preference to indulge in self delusion.  Many  feel reluctant to admit that our values are rarely absolute and there are  indeed times when they must appropriately be abandoned.  The occasional  exception, it is mistakenly perceived, always precariously places us on the  slippery slope leading to Armageddon. The late Sidney Hook was one of the  few who even dared to tackle the dilemma surrounding the paradoxes of  democracy.  An unspoken Taboo prevents many others from even admitting a  problem exists.  .<br />Stanley Fish admittedly has half a point to make when  claiming that hiring practices are rarely an exercise in total objectivity  and meritocracy.  Such decisions made by flesh and blood human beings will  indeed be flawed.  Subconsciously, if not even consciously, factors such  as class, race, gender, etc. may play a disturbing and invalid role.  Nonetheless, Fish seemingly pushes his argument to the point of absurdity.  The real answer, of course, is that human beings must learn to confront  their prejudices and develop the virtuous habits to overcome them.  Stanley Fish is merely building a career around the fact that prudential  judgment, and not a hard-science absolutism, underpins our decision making.  He is something of a con man who exaggerates his main points to deceive us  regarding their ultimate value.  Perhaps others can perceive the debate  over Fish as merely an abstract intellectual exercise of no real importance  to the real world. I am not one of these people. Deconstructionism asserts  that human beings cannot achieve reasonable certitude in their decision  making. The underpinnings of this epistemology destroy any hope of building  a democratic society. The result is that we must ultimately rely on pure  brute force. One possesses power not because of the ability to persuade  others---but you can kick the crap out of them!xists.  .<br />Stanley Fish admittedly has half a point to make when  claiming that hiring practices are rarely an exercise in total objectivity  and meritocracy.  Such decisions made by flesh and blood human beings will  indeed be flawed.   Subconsciously, if not even consciously, factors such  as class, race, gender, etc. may play a disturbing and invalid role.  Nonetheless, Fish seemingly pushes his argument to the point of absurdity.  The real answer, of course, is that human beings must learn to confront  their prejudices and develop the virtuous habits to overcome them.    Stanley Fish is merely building a career around the fact that prudential  judgment, and not a hard-science absolutism, underpins our decision making.  He is something of a con man who exaggerates his main points to deceive us  regarding their ultimate value.  Perhaps others can perceive the debate   over Fish as merely an abstract intellectual exercise of no real importance  to the real world. I am not one of these people. Deconstructionism asserts  that human beings cannot achieve reasonable certitude in their decision  making. The underpinnings of this epistemology destroy any hope of building  a democratic society. The result is that we must ultimately rely on pure  brute force. One possesses power not because of the ability to persuade  others---but you can kick the crap out of them!	2000-07-03
US	52940618	R27TV9RU9CM7Y3	0385474466	599805840	Case Closed: Lee Harvey Oswald and the Assassination of JFK	Books	4	6	15	N	N	Oswald's Hunger For Fame Motivated Him To Commit Crime	The title of this book is right on target. Gerald Posner did indeed conclusively close the case on the Kennedy Assassination.  The evidence is abundantly marshaled to conclude that Lee Harvey Oswald acted alone in  shooting the President of the United States.  Unfortunately, there will  always remain those embracing inane conspiracy theories.  It is impossible  to disprove a negative. A shred of dubious evidence can forevermore be  located to sustain their belief system. A conspiracy theory is convenient  when one wishes not to come to grips with the meaninglessness and  existential despair of their boring life.<br />Much has been made of Oswald's  motivation.  What did he get out of this murder?  The answer is patently  obvious: Oswald became the center of attention, and his immortality was now  assured.  He achieved instantaneous name recognition.  The world literally  revolved around his every word and action.  Oswald was a prisoner who in  many ways dictated the terms of his confinement. I am haunted by what I  perceived to be the exhilarating happiness expressed on Oswald's face just  before Jack Ruby shot him.  He damn well knew that his infamous crime would  be talked about and researched many centuries into the future.  Oswald was  unlike the majority of his fellow human beings.  Many might desire fame,  but our conscience prevents us from committing foul deeds to achieve such a  goal.  Also, those possessing a historical perspective realize that fame is  relative and fleeting.  The Egyptian Pharaohs and Roman Emperors, for  example, were widely famous during their lives.  Today, only those seeking  an advanced degree in these narrow historical specialties give a damn that  they ever existed.<br />Oswald in his heart of hearts was essentially  apolitical.  This half educated and manipulative young man cared little  about the per se studying of myriad political philosophies, and how best to  devise policies and procedures helpful in developing viable social orders.  Oswald was a mere opportunist who stumbled upon a fortuitous  opportunity  to easily shoot the leader of Camelot, John F. Kennedy.  The plan was  fairly simple and straight forward.  A James Bond was not required.  I am  also confident in arguing that had someone locked the door leading to the  fateful window, or had Oswald's employer sent him on an errand away from  the building---Kennedy might still be alive today.  Oswald was not utterly  committed to killing the President.  Only a few months earlier, Oswald had  failed in shooting the political opposite of Kennedy, General Edwin Walker.  President Kennedy was only a means to an end.  Chance played such a major  role in this tragedy.  A few breaks here and there, and Kennedy's visit to  Dallas would have only been a minor news item.  The bitter and frustrated  Oswald would have returned home, got drunk, beat up his wife, and woke up  the next morning eager to search for another high profile victim.<br />Gerald  Posner has written a number of fine works.  It would also behoove the  reader to find a copy of the 1991 book, &quot;Hitler's Children--Sons and  Daughters of Leaders of the Third Reich Talk About Their Fathers and  Themselves.&quot;  I have yet to peruse Posner's study of the Nazi monster,  Joseph Mengele.  If, however, it is even half as good as Posner's analysis  of Lee Harvey Oswald, then it is a definite must read.orders.   Oswald was a mere opportunist who stumbled upon a fortuitous  opportunity  to easily shoot the leader of Camelot, John F. Kennedy.  The plan was  fairly simple and straight forward.  A James Bond was not required.  I am  also confident in arguing that had someone locked the door leading to the  fateful window, or had Oswald's employer sent him on an errand away from  the building---Kennedy might still be alive today.  Oswald was not utterly  committed to killing the President.  Only a few months earlier, Oswald had  failed in shooting the political opposite of Kennedy, General Edwin Walker.   President Kennedy was only a means to an end.  Chance played such a major  role in this tragedy.  A few breaks here and there, and Kennedy's visit to  Dallas would have only been a minor news item.  The bitter and frustrated  Oswald would have returned home, got drunk, beat up his wife, and woke up  the next morning eager to search for another high profile victim.<br />Gerald  Posner has written a number of fine works.  It would also behoove the  reader to find a copy of the 1991 book, &quot;Hitler's Children--Sons and  Daughters of Leaders of the Third Reich Talk About Their Fathers and  Themselves.&quot;  I have yet to peruse Posner's study of the Nazi monster,  Joseph Mengele.  If, however, it is even half as good as Posner's analysis  of Lee Harvey Oswald, then it is a definite must read.	2000-07-02
US	52940618	R3SOITRURWJ6AG	0394722264	80794573	Blaming the Victim	Books	2	24	76	N	N	&quot;Blaming the Victim&quot; Theme Has Caused Much Damage	William Ryan is almost certainly a very warm and decent human being.  I suspect that he would be a great next door neighbor and loyal friend. Ryan means well and only wishes the best for those mired in permanent underclass  poverty.  Unfortunately, one's heart might be in the proverbial right  place, but this is of little value if the head is not on straight.  Dr.  Ryan's theme decrying an alleged blaming of the victim did much to inhibit  the necessary dialogue needed to resolve these awkward and difficult  issues: anyone even suggesting in a logical and thoughtful manner that  poverty sometimes results from behavioral deficiencies was perceived as  disgusting and possibly evil.  William Ryan is the poster child of  political correctness. I literally consider this book as one of the most  destructive books written in the past century.  There is not an ounce of  hyperbole in the previous sentence. Ryan's mushy sentimentalism  inadvertently caused far more harm than good.  I do not recommend this book  for any of its supposed virtues, but as a tragic reminder of an attitude  and perspective to avoid at all costs in the future. This book is a must  read for that reason alone.<br />The courageous scholar, Edward Banfield, paid  a horrific price for his classic and beautiful work published in 1970,  &quot;The Unheavenly City: The Nature and Future of our Urban Crisis.&quot;  Ryan and his ilk made sure to inflict as much suffering as possible upon  Banfield.  These individuals made the bizarre claim that Banfield's central  thesis was per se racist.  The irony is that the argument over destructive  behavior underpinning poverty in certain circumstances transcends all  racial and ethnic classifications.  There are many white people, for  instance, in the United States who are held back by their lack of  possessing a viable work ethic and strong family values.  I concede that a  person's race can be a hindrance in climbing the social and economic  ladder.  Only a fool would deny this cold fact of life.  Professor Ryan,  however, exaggerated this factor to the point of absurdity.ld deny this cold fact of life.  Professor Ryan,  however, exaggerated this factor to the point of absurdity.	2000-07-01
US	52940618	R2S51XZ44LHSKU	1891620789	530612786	Cyberselfish	Books	4	42	72	N	Y	The Harm of &quot;the Terribly Libertarian Culture of High Tech&quot;	A number of years ago I earned my living as a blue collar auto worker.  I once remember asking a human resources person why some people were picked for the the higher paying and generally easier work in the steel division  while others toiled on the brutal assembly line. His response was blunt and  to the point: the requests for workers came in throughout the day---the  luck of the draw was the primary determining factor.  Hard work and skill  had virtually nothing to do with the selection process. I have since  realized the importance of being in right place at the right time.  A Half  truth is dangerous simply because the ease of being seduced into  overlooking its element of falsehood.  One of the most pernicious is the  aphorism declaring that &quot;you earn everything you get in this  world.&quot;  This trite saying  overlooks the cold reality that none of us  earned our genetic makeup compromising our intelligence, athletic skill,  nor did we select the wealth and position of our parents.  Would we trade  places, for instance, with a child born in the slums of  Calcutta?<br />Humility is not self hatred, but the objective and realistic  appraisal that our accomplishments are not solely of our own making.  Paulina Borsook's insights into the arrogance and sometimes nastiness of  the technological elite is a work long overdue.  Libertarianism as defined  by the followers of Ayn Rand has done much harm.  This vile woman was  infamous for her ruthlessness and indifference to those around her.  Rand  preached Liberty and autonomy, but practiced a authoritarian leadership  demanding total adherence to her ideas as infallible.  I am a Democratic  Capitalist who owes much to the insights of neo-conservative scholars such  as Michael Novak and Richard John Neuhaus. In regards to the latter, I  strongly urge the reading of Neuhaus' splendid work, &quot;Doing Good and  Doing Well, the Challenge to the Christian Capitalist.&quot;  The  Democratic Capitalist is not hostile to government per se, and this may be  the primary reason why I never had the least hesitation for giving credit  to the government funding greatly responsible for the very beginning of the  computer age.  All economies are mixed, and it is often merely the question  of degree separating the so called socialist and the capitalist.  It is  intrinsically impossible for a totalist economy to survive even for a  week.<br />I highly recommend Borsook's book, but I sense that she is too  pessimistic.  There is definitely a tendency for the high-tech elite to  surrender  to the sin of pride, but I do not see the situation as hopeless.  I suspect that the recent drop in many Wall Street technology stocks has  been a wake up call.  A more mature adult attitude may be evolving.  If so,  Paulina Borsook, should be congratulated for her valuable contribution  to  this long ignored and necessary discussion.e to government per se, and this may be  the primary reason why I never had the least hesitation for giving credit  to the government funding greatly responsible for the very beginning of the  computer age.  All economies are mixed, and it is often merely the question  of degree separating the so called socialist and the capitalist.  It is  intrinsically impossible for a totalist economy to survive even for a  week.<br />I highly recommend Borsook's book, but I sense that she is too  pessimistic.  There is definitely a tendency for the high-tech elite to  surrender  to the sin of pride, but I do not see the situation as hopeless.   I suspect that the recent drop in many Wall Street technology stocks has  been a wake up call.  A more mature adult attitude may be evolving.  If so,  Paulina Borsook, should be congratulated for her valuable contribution  to  this long ignored and necessary discussion.	2000-06-18
US	52940618	RHRXOPORXDGSS	0684810727	780761007	In Search of Black America: Discovering the African-American Dream	Books	5	29	31	N	Y	A Neo-Conservative View of David Dent's Splendid Work	Both Liberal and Conservative commentators often prefer to perceive black people as card board abstractions able to easily fit within their own  ideological preconceptions.  David Dent did not fall into this seductive trap.  He writes about real flesh and blood Afro-Americans.  Regrettably,  Dent's work is needed to aid present day Americans to better understand and  resolve the racial issues haunting our nation since its earliest history.  One can only hope that in the near future this superb work will become  essentially irrelevant and of interest to only academics studying the  peculiarities of American life at the dawn of the 21st century.<br />I am a  white man who can choose to be indifferent towards his ethnic heritage.  It  is impossible to tell when I walk down the street whether my ancestors were  originally from Russia, England, or Sweden.  I am actually of German  extraction, and this fact bores me to death.  The German language and  culture is meaningless to me, and I have absolutely no interest &quot;in  getting in touch with my roots.&quot;  An Afro-American, however,  does not  have this option.  Their blackness is inescapable and perhaps even  suffocating.  I recall Sidney Poitier's public criticism of journalists who  constantly asked him questions pertaining to racial issues.  Poitier had to  remind these probably well meaning individuals that there were also many  other facets of his life that were being ignored.<br />The very concept of a  viable middle class black life is an oxymoron to many decent white  Americans.  Afro-Americans who garner most media attention are the very  wealthy artists and athletes, and their opposites residing within the  &quot;permanent underclass&quot; areas of our nation's impoverished  ghettoes.  Blacks either get their pictures on a Wheaties box, or a wanted  poster---virtually nothing in between. David Dent has succeeded admirably  well in depicting black Americans as varied socially, economically, and  educationally as the rest of &quot;main stream&quot; America.  I am glad  that I read this book.ally as the rest of &quot;main stream&quot; America.  I am glad  that I read this book.	2000-03-19
US	52940618	R342NY3IOZXCUE	0226120678	429726314	In Defence of Politics	Books	5	30	30	N	Y	This is one of the greatest books in the 20th century!	I cannot believe that I am the first one to do a review ofBernard Crick's great masterpiece, &quot;In Defense of Politics.&quot;This is a honor that forces me to question my worthiness. Crick so aptly understood that the aiming for a kind of absolutist perfection in any human relationship is dooming oneself to inevitable bitter disillusionment.  This may especially be true within the political sphere.  Those who indulge in a virtual cult of adoring specific &quot;great men&quot; totally misunderstand the goal of politics. Democracy can never be more than an attempt to search out a workable compromise between disagreeing citizens.  A certain agnosticism concerning one's position is often required; a dogmatic true believer mentality may indeed become dangerous and threaten the very tenuous underpinnings of our governmental institutions.  We must indeed strive to improve our political process. It is even a moral obligation to do so.  Nonetheless, The search for the perfect and virtuous leader to give one's unhesitating allegiance and adoration has always resulted in a hell on earth.<br />The political process is often yucky, disappointing, and after much effort may leave one at best with a half a loaf result.  It has been said that there are two things someone with a weak disposition may wish to avoid---viewing the processing of sausage and the making of human law.  Am I a cynic and possessing a defeatist attitude?  The answer is an adamant no!  On the contrary, Crick and I recognize the glorious possibilities of an evolving civilization premised upon frail and imperfect human beings.  It takes incredible physical, intellectual and moral diligence to bring about viable human relationships of any sort.  What we have so far accomplished in Great Britain and the United States is of mind boggling beauty and structural effectiveness.  Bernard Crick understands the limits of politics and that a democratic society deserves two cheers, not three. Winston Churchill paradoxically said it best--democracy is usually disappointingly awful--it's simply better than all the other political systems devised and implemented throughout human history.y said it best--democracy is usually disappointingly awful--it's simply better than all the other political systems devised and implemented throughout human history.	1999-08-22
US	52940618	R30ABTW97Q63TR	0688161367	368994110	Black and White on Wall Street: The Untold Story of the Man Wrongly Accused of Bringing Down Kidder Peabody	Books	3	0	1	N	N	Jett owes us an explanation regarding his trading strategy	Joseph Jett owes his readers a detailed explanation concerning his highly controversial trading strategies.  I do not feel comfortable that  Jett has yet to do this.  It is not how I perceive an innocent man would respond to  baseless charges. After all, this is the crux of his predicament.  I  readily admit that my lack of knowledge might limit my own personal  understanding of these allegedly highly complicated strategies.  Nonetheless, If Jett wants the general public to conclude that he was  wrongly charged with moral failings instead of incompetence--then he must  allow an opportunity for those wise of enough to grasp these intricacies to  freely judge his decisions.<br />Jett was guilty of at least being way over  his head.  The best case that can be made for him is that both he and his  superiors lied to themselves about the actual results of his trades.  Everybody preferred to believe that like the alchemists of the middle ages,  Jett could make gold out of nothing. Was Jett treated somewhat unfairly?  I  think that many of Jett's bosses should have shared in the blame, but  instead conveniently set him up to take the fall all by himself.  Jett's  blackness might have been a double edge sword---it forced him to endure  inadvertent, if not deliberate, racist attitudes--and may also have  deflected a serious look at his trades until it was too late!  Jett can say  all he wants, but his employers obviously relished displaying a black man  to the world as one of their top traders.	1999-06-28
US	52940618	R22T8D52MGPD7I	0060916125	581879090	The True Believer	Books	5	8	13	N	N	This is a classic deserving far more attention and respect	Eric Hoffer was not a member of the university snob community---and the latter will never forgive him for writing a book far beyond their pathetic talents.  The True Believer transcended  the categories of right and left wing.  Extremists of either stripe did not have a friend in Hoffer.<br />In fairness,however, I must concede that there are often advantages  in acquiring a formal degree.  Few can overcome the deficiencies resulting from being a drop out.  I would hesitate in flippantly recommending this lifestyle. The Eric Hoffers, admittedly, are always the statistical aberration, never the norm.  Nonetheless, when the iconoclastic outsider does it right---they can accomplish greatness. Eric Hoffer did it right and was a giant.	1998-06-09
