US	52949629	RICJ17SCPQ9QP	1579547699	611816116	Men's Health: The Book of Muscle : The World's Most Authoritative Guide to Building Your Body	Books	4	237	250	N	N	Excellent first book	In many respects this is the perfect first book for someone looking to get into regular exercise.  More than most other books in the genre, this one seems to have more than a modicum of scientific understanding backing it.  The first sections set the tone, going over the actual science of muscles, why they get bigger, and how.  The authors know their audience, though, and don't overdo the science.  However, if you are going to lift weights then you need some level of understanding of what things work and why.  This first section gives you that.  I personally would have liked to see more scientific detail and references but understand that that probably would alienate large chunks of their target audience.<br />After that primer you get introduced to the major muscles and the exercises that target them.  There are also sections on diet, warming up, and stretching.  While none of these sections are comprehensive, and many have been done better elsewhere, they are done well enough here that it makes the book a viable one stop shop for beginners.<br />Before you rush out and buy this, though, there are few caveats.  <br />One, the book does not cater to the home exerciser.  Depending on how well stocked your home gym is and how creative you are with coming up with replacement exercises this might not be a big deal, but the exercises DO assume access to barbells, dumbbells, and a machine.<br />Two, some of the exercise descriptions are lacking detail or, in a few cases, plain wrong.  The upright row, for instance, shows a form -- bringing your elbows way above parallel -- that most trainers and researchers caution against because it causes shoulder injury in many people.  I would expect the world's most authoritative guide to at least mention this.<br />Three, the routines provided sometimes leave me scratching my head.  They give a cadence for things like the push up hold.  The description of this exercise says to &quot;hold the position for the specified period of time&quot; yet the actual routines don't specify a period of time.  Am I supposed to hold for 3 seconds or 30 or 90?  Who knows?<br />Four, the routines -- at least early on -- take far too long and seem more like overtraining than training.  In &quot;Phase One&quot; King prescribes circuit training and by week three you're supposed to be doing this circuit 2-3 times per day, three days a week.  I found that doing the circuit twice took me over an hour.  Doing it a third time would have pushed me well over 90 minutes of exercise.  Throw in warm up and post-work out stretching and you're looking at a solid two hours.  This is for &quot;beginners&quot; and they're supposed to do it three times a week.<br />Later on in &quot;Phase One&quot; King piles even more work on that.  Not only are you supposed to do each circuit 2-3 times, you're supposed to do 2-3 reps of each exercise.  In week 6, if you do the minimum number of reps, the minimum number of sets, the minimum number of circuits, all with the minimum recommended resting the whole thing will take you 93 minutes.  Do that three times a week.  This is for &quot;beginners&quot;.<br />While I like the workouts I think this kind of time commitment is more likely to lead to overtraining rather than useful gains.  Admittedly later on it looks like King scales back the time requirements but you have to persevere through 8 weeks of workouts that are easily 90 minutes in length.	2004-05-25
US	52949629	RKQWL3SMUWL74	1890132195	823774775	The Earth-Sheltered House: An Architect's Sketchbook (Real Goods Solar Living Book)	Books	2	12	14	N	N	hard to read	As others have pointed out none of the plans shown in the book seem to have been built.  Every single one looks to have been cancelled because of budget problems.  Which makes you wonder, if people with enough money to go to a professional architect find an earth-sheltered house too expensive to build, what hope do the rest of us have of building one in our lifetimes?  Lots of interesting ideas but not much practical application that I can see.<br />However my biggest gripe is the font used in the book: a script font that is an attempt to make the book look like a hand written journal.  I just found it very hard to read large amount of text with that font.  They should have stuck with a normal typeface instead of trying to get cute.<br />Hard to recommend unless you can handle the typeface and don't mind that the book has no real practical information.  (Although lots of interesting IDEAS.)	2004-04-17
US	52949629	R36U7U1SNG25SX	0743530446	822851800	Ultraprevention: The 6-Week Plan That Will Make You Healthy for Life	Books	2	428	475	N	N	All good stuff but nothing new	I give this book a low rating not because anything in it is bad per se, only that there is nothing all that great in it either.  It is broken into three sections.  The first two basically discuss their theory of disease along with anecdotes from their practice.  While all of this is certainly interesting you're probably reading this book for its practical application to your life.  So a story about someone's drug interaction and how the doctor's diagnosed it isn't particularly relevant unless you happen to have the same weird biochemistry that that patient had.<br />The third section contains the practical applications of everything they've talked about up to this point and this is where the disappointment sets in.  I have two complaints:<br />One, in the previous two sections they mentioned numerous medical tests (e.g. checking homocystein levels or measuring metabolic performance) as being useful for diagnosing your overall health.  Yet in this section there is no mention of these tests.  Which ones should I ask my doctor to perform?  How often should I have them performed?<br />Two, and this is the killer, nothing they have to say is new or different.  Almost the same exact advice regarding diet and exercise is contained in my 10 year old copy of a book by the guy who did Abs of Steel.  If you haven't paid *ANY* attention to health and diet literature over the past decade then what they have to say might be new to you and so the book is useful for that.  But at this point you can pick up most diet and nutrition books that aren't focused on a single fad diet and they'll contain the same advice: exercise (both aerobic and resistance) regularly, watch out for foods with a high glycemic index, cut out sugars, caffeine, and alcohol, minimize your animal and large fish protein and fat consumption, avoid overly processed foods, eat lots of colorful vegetables high in antioxidants, get plenty of sleep, lower your stress, laugh, enjoy life.<br />Yes, their plan will makeyou healthier if you can follow it.  But their plan isn't any different from what most health books have been suggesting for at least a decade and most people haven't been following their advice.<br />There is nothing *wrong* with this book and if you aren't familiar with modern diet, exercise, and nutrition advice it is a fine place to start.  But if you are familiar with such things you won't find anything new in here that you can apply to your life.	2004-03-11
US	52949629	R53DH9RC7M8A3	1579546579	18722640	The Men's Health Home Workout Bible	Books	4	93	97	N	Y	Excellent with a few flaws	This book gets high marks for making explicit what its goal is -- home workouts -- and then delivering on that.  While the focus is on home workouts, it offers enough information to be useful as your primary workout book, regardless of venue.  The authors offer divide the exercises into major sections, depending on what kind of equipment you have at your disposal: no weights at all (i.e. use bodyweight only and makeshift weights from things found around the house), dumbbells, barbells, and exercise machine.  This is great because it makes it easy to come up with a temporary workout plan for that week you're on vacation and don't have access to your normal equipment.  They tell you how to create a workout plan, taking full advantage of periodization.  They include tons of exercises for you to pick from when constructing your plan.  If you don't feel up to creating your own plan they offer several pre-made ones with different focuses.<br />It isn't perfect, however, there is certainly room for improvement.  When discussing individual exercises I wish they did a better job of showing how the variations affect what parts of the muscle are exercised.  For instance, I think that hammer curls are supposed to work your biceps differently than standard curls but there is no mention of that kind of thing in most exercises.  That inclusion would make constructing your own work out routines even easier.<br />The structure of the book leaves a little to be desired as well.  It felt that some things -- like whether to work to failure -- aren't introduced as early as they should be.  The result is you really should read (or at least skim) the book from cover to cover before setting out.  A little bit tighter structure would make it easier to just skip to the section you care about.<br />There is also not much mention of supplements although given the somewhat controversial nature of their efficacy and the target of the book (I would guess that people who workout at home are somewhat less hard-core than those who go to a gym) it is understandable.<br />Overall, though, this is an excellent resource.  It has both breadth and depth, making it a great single-volume resource on working out.what less hard-core than those who go to a gym) it is understandable.<br />Overall, though, this is an excellent resource.  It has both breadth and depth, making it a great single-volume resource on working out.	2004-03-11
US	52949629	R342734PD4UQCL	1579542980	230216289	The Complete Book of Men's Health: The Definitive, Illustrated Guide to Healthy Living, Exercise, and Sex	Books	2	8	10	N	N	common sense	I suppose somewhere there might be someone who can benefit from this book, although I can't imagine they're old enough to have a job yet so they're going to be borrowing money from mom and dad to buy this.  There are some pretty pictures explaining basic science of some health issues.  A nice illustration of what an ingrown hair is, for instance.  If you need a picture to understand that kind of thing.  You'll also be taught the mysteries of how to floss, how to brush your teeth, how to cut your fingernails, and what body types can wear a double breasted suit.<br />Eventually the book makes it way to general issues of health -- prostate health, cancer, heart disease -- and things improve a little bit.  Still not enough to make me think buying this book is worthwhile, though.  Check it out from your local library and you can skim all the useful information in under an hour.	2004-03-11
US	52949629	R1X1VBD7GGDZI7	006000889X	443192843	Power of 10: The Once-A-Week Slow Motion Fitness Revolution (Harperresource Book)	Books	2	56	73	N	N	the program might be good but this book isn't	If you know absolutely nothing about weight training then this book *might* offer something to you.  If you *do* know something, then the book is almost worthless.  The Power-of-10 program is so simple it can be explained in less than a page, so why is an entire book needed?<br />Ideally, the book would contain lots of explanation -- preferably backed by rigorous scientific studies, or at least empirical anecdotes -- to explain why slow-lifting is as good or better than the traditional methods.  But you won't find any of that here.  If you know anything about weight lifting this book does nothing to dispel your questions about the slow-lifting methods espoused within.  What do you do when you hit a plateau?  What about the usual concerns of always doing exactly the same exercises in the exactly the same range of motion?  Are the *only* benefits from cardio weight loss?<br />Instead you'll get passing mention of one study that found an initial benefit when pregnant women slow-lifted and scads of anecdotes that basically all say, &quot;I've been doing Power-of-10 for X months/years and I've never felt better.&quot;  How much has their BMI decreased?  Or the 1RM increased?  Or their waist shrunk?  Or their arms increased?<br />Just give me *something* to go on other than a single study and a bunch of &quot;I feel great&quot; anecdotes.  Power-of-10 might very well be a great program that works but there isn't much in the book to convince you of that.  And the actual program itself is so simple it seems to silly to pay money for this book when a simple google search will turn up a dozen web pages that explain the program just as well but without all of the excess verbiage.	2004-03-11
US	52949629	R8WDP8RRDDFL	157826085X	806301866	The Body Sculpting Bible for Men	Books	3	30	34	N	N	some good, some bad	The good: The descriptions and pictures of the exercises are pretty good.  The \\"beginner\\" and \\"intermediate\\" workout routines are pretty decent (although, like other reviewers, I am a bit skeptical about the 6 day workout schedule and its potential for burnout).<br />The bad: As other reviewers have noted there is a definite focus on overweight individuals.  This isn't bad per se but I wish it been made clearer.  The section on supplements is terrible.  It is wrong in places (they recommend using chromium picolinate), confusing (they say studies have shown taking 1000mg of vitamin C before a workout reduces soreness then they say to take 1000mg 3 times a day...why so much?), and unscientific.  There are no cites, no summaries of studies, just stories about how such and such a supplement worked for them.  When it comes to supplements and diet I want something more scientific than anecdotes.<br />Finally, there is only ONE routine given.  Considering how much fluff there is in the book, and how short it is, it would have been nice if they had included several routines.  Not everyone has the same workout goals.  Seeing as how they are personal trainers they should know this very well.  Providing several routines for people with different goals would have made this book a lot more useful.	2004-01-15
US	52949629	RU5IUFBSNNJHK	1584792965	770132852	Alton Brown's Gear for Your Kitchen	Books	2	236	344	N	N	Not worth the money	Apparently I'm going to be the first person to give this book a less than glowing review.  First let's take a look at the (list) price.  For almost $28 you get a book that is actually fairly small.  I was surprised when I opened it up.<br />But the basic disappointment is that Brown just doesn't do a very good job of convincing me which types of devices I do and don't need and then what brands/designs I should look for in those devices.<br />The coverage of topics is somewhat spotty.  At times his description leaves you to believe that pretty much everything you can buy in a category is equivalent, at other times he goes into excruciating detail about what to look for.  Apparently all cake pans are equivalent so long as they are heavy-duty aluminum and not non-stick; no brand names are mentioned, no pros and cons listed.  When it comes to ice cream machines, however, we are treated to a 2 1/2 page dissertation surveying a complete range from the $600 Musso Lussino to the $55 Krups.  Sometimes he gives detailed explanations of why he prefers one brand over another, other times not.  Sometimes he'll compare several brands, other times only compare his favorite against one other.  This inconsistency is a little annoying.<br />There were some instances where I was confused at his advice because it seems to contradict what I've heard him say elsewhere.  He says that a Y-shaped peeler is the best there is yet I could swear on his TV show he said the two different designs are for somewhat different tasks and you really need one of each.  On his website he recommends getting a mini-food processor because that's the size that is useful for 75% of the kitchen jobs you do; yet in this book he says that size is useless (&quot;I can do [that much] with a knife in less time than it takes to wash the work bowl.&quot;)  Flip flops like that make you start to question other parts of his advice.<br />In the end, you're probably better off just paying $3.95 for one-month subscriptionsto the Cook's Illustrated website and searching their archives for product reviews and recommendations.  While they aren't quite as comprehensive as Brown's book (although they cover about 90% of the useful material in Brown's book) the reviews and recommendations you'll find are far more useful as they compare more products and give more detail about why certain products were liked and disliked as well as giving a range of products to try.	2003-12-25
US	52949629	R3S5INVNSNCBRT	0140139966	365951940	How Buildings Learn: What Happens After They're Built	Books	3	73	95	N	N	lots of flash but not much substance	When I started reading the book I felt myself in agreement with much of what Brand has to say.  Eventually I began to have nagging doubts which eventually crystallized.  The title is a poor match for the content and part of the problem is one of the things Brand talks about: no one really knows how buildings learn or what happens after they've been built because the architecture profession hasn't been interested in those things.  Brand makes a lot of suggestions but by the end of the book you realize he hasn't synthesized a whole from the many conflicting parts.<br />Is exposing services good or bad?  When he talks about MIT's Building 20 he likes exposed services.  When he talks about the Pompidou Centre in Paris he doesn't.  We should build of masonry because it lasts forever.  No, masonry is hard to change and we should use wood.  Wood requires too much upkeep so we should use metal roofs.  But metal buildings are ugly.  But anything more than 100 years old is beautiful.  We should build for the ages but it should be affordable so we don't have to take out a mortgage to do so.  Flat roofs are bad (even though they promote vertical growth) but rectagular walls are best (because they make additions easy).  Overly specified buildings are bad but then he goes on for pages about how he turned a barge into a house.  It should be somewhat specific because open architecture overwhelms us with the possibilities, but it shouldn't be TOO specific.<br />It isn't until the final two chapters that he actually has some concrete suggestions and then you realize most of the book he has been arguing against a strawman.<br />The best part of the book are the photos, often showing the same building or neighboor over the spans of a few decades, really driving home how buildings can and do change.	2002-06-11
US	52949629	R10O587LB2LAQ4	0767906438	237921900	The 85 Ways to Tie a Tie: The Science and Aesthetics of Tie Knots	Books	5	9	9	N	N	a perfect book	This is a book about ties and their knots.  Within that narrowly prescribed scope the book executes perfectly.  Any man who ever needs to tie a tie (and that would be most of us) would do well to pick up this book.  Don't like the four-in-hand that your father taught you because the tie is too long but the Windsor is too big?  Try a St. Andrew.  Have a tie that is too long even when done in a Windsor?  Try a Balthus.  Have an bulky knit wool tie that looks clumsy when done up in a four-in-hand?  Try an Oriental.<br />Even if you aren't a male clothes hound and don't care much for ties it is hard not to be impressed and fascinated with this exposition of the arcane and esoteric.	2002-05-14
US	52949629	R1PVN9SMUMR4BW	1563893304	523289763	Kingdom Come	Books	2	9	23	N	N	don't expect a coherent story	Because there isn't one.  While I've liked Alex Ross' work in other books, I found it fairly mundane in this.  It wasn't bad.  It simply wasn't memorable.  And there are several artistic choices along the way that I vehemently disagreed with (like Superman's gray hair).  If the artwork had been fabulous then perhaps it could have made up for the complete lack of a compelling story.  Instead the reader is treated to page after page of deus ex machina.<br />Who is the narrator and why do we even need him?  Why does the Avenging Angel say that the narrator must pass judgment when it is really Captain Marvel who holds the decision in his hands?  Why are we supposed to think that even if all of the metahumans are obliterated in Kansas another generation won't rise in the future and cause the same problems?  Why do all of the other &quot;good&quot; superheroes run away and hide just because Superman does?<br />The dialogue and plotting is trite.  If you worship Alex Ross then you'll probably get this despite my negative recommendation.  Obviously other people have enjoyed it.	2002-05-06
US	52949629	R1MMK84U6BFVSQ	0679421017	310882301	The Elegant Man: How to Construct the Ideal Wardrobe	Books	2	36	41	N	N	lots of pictures but not worth it	The best thing about this book is the plethora of photos.  Far too many books on men's fashion seem to think the reader already knows the difference between houndstooth and herringbone, faille and gabardine, madras and fustian.  While I think they go into a little TOO much detail about how the various materials are made (and not enough detail telling you how to recognize the difference between quality and junk), it is does offer a dimension that is lacking in other books of this sort.<br />However, other than the abundance of pictures there isn't a lot to recommend this book.  They don't actually show you how to construct the ideal wardrobe.  They don't walk you through purchasing things step by step.  If I don't have $20,000 to buy a brand new wardrobe what ONE thing should I start with?<br />Finally, their sense of style is dubious.  They refer to knickerbockers as \\"indispensable\\".  Knickerbockers?  When was the last time you saw anyone wearing those?  Where would I even buy them if I wanted them?	2002-04-23
US	52949629	R219Q1TW75RJUC	0785100490	217782362	Marvels	Books	3	11	17	N	N	not for the uninitiated	While the artwork is good, the story is too weak and shallow for those uninitiated in the Marvel universe (like me).  There are tons of references to characters and events that for the most part just left me confused.  While I have a decent familiarity with some of the Marvel characters, unless you've been reading dozens of Marvel comics for decades (since the story starts with Marvel #1) I'm not sure how much sense a lot of the story makes.  People come in and out, battles are over, the city is destroyed, reparations are made.<br />The basic premise, of how normal people adjust to living in a world of &quot;Marvels&quot;, is a great idea.  This graphic novel just doesn't pull it off extraordiarily well.  Rather than feeling &quot;ambitious&quot; by showing some of the great events from 30+ years of Marvel comics, it just feels like someone is telling in-jokes and you're not an insider.<br />Of course, if you are a huge fan of comics and have read them voraciously you might find more to like here.	2002-04-21
US	52949629	R1AOW8EO0GTH4T	1564966550	183339937	East West Style: A Design Guide for Blending Eastern and Western Elements at Home	Books	2	10	11	N	N	too unfocused	The five main chapters of this book are \\"Simplicity and Order\\", \\"Proportion and Form\\", \\"Harmony and Balance\\", \\"Color and Texture\\", and \\"Eastern Treasures\\".  The book purports to show you those \\"eastern\\" elements can be incorporated into western rooms.  Well obviously the concepts of color and texture aren't unique to the east so you might expect a length discussion about how eastern notions of color and texture differ from western notions and how the two can blend together to create a harmonious and beautiful room.  Instead, the two pages of text in this chapter merely say, \\"Ancient Eastern beliefs include much color symbolism that relates to the emotional responses the colors evoke\\" and \\"The Eastern affinity for natural fibers and materials introduces a broad range of textures\\".  Gee, thanks.<br />The other problem is the poor dilenation of topics.  If you flip to a random picture in the book you'll have a hard time whether they are trying to tell you something about texture or proportion.  Certainly, in a complete room all of the factors need to balance each other out, but without focusing on each one individually it is harder to grasp its importance.<br />There are a few hundred photos of designs that look like they would, for the most part, require expensive modifications (for instance, the kitchen with contrasting textures made of three separate materials or the dining room with the floor treatment).  As another reviewer pointed out, virtually all of the photographs reflect a Japanese and (to a much lesser extent) Chinese aesthetic.	2002-04-17
US	52949629	R2F40RO9UI5CPG	2080136801	757457734	Asian Style (Design Details)	Books	2	24	25	N	N	aimless prose	This book start out promising by saying they will discuss a variety of Asian styles (not just Japanese and Chinese, which so many other &quot;Asian&quot; style books seem to do).  The table of contents is also promising -- &quot;Clarity and Simplicity&quot;, &quot;Materials&quot;, &quot;Colors&quot;, &quot;Patterns&quot;, and &quot;Shapes&quot; -- in that it sounds a somewhat systematic treatment of various aspects of design in several Asian cultures is going to be presented to the reader.<br />The actual text doesn't quite live up to those expectations.  The section on &quot;Materials&quot; really doesn't have a lot to say other than &quot;Asian interiors feature little or no stone&quot; and then goes on to list some things that are use: paper, earthen works, egg shells, natural weaves, bamboo, and silk.  Each of these topics gets dealt with in a very cursory manner.  Silk, one of the things that many people immediately identify with Asian style merits one measly paragraph and two photos (one of a comforter and one of some pillows, how original).<br />The book really fails to discuss in any kind of meaningful or systematic way how various Asian cultures deal with materials and color and so on.<br />Also the photos in book are quite useless.  I mean, the photos are nice, crisp, clear and all that.  It is just that they show the objects completely out of context.  For instance there is an extremely zoomed in picture of a buncle of incense sticks.  While there are certainly cases where I like this photo style -- when talking about individual components of style like proportion and color -- you need to have SOME photos showing objects in context or people just can't get an idea of whether than bundle of incense sticks would actually add a note of color to a room.<br />There are also quite a few objects that I'm not sure why they were included in this book.  There is a photo of vermicelli in Chinese packaging, for instance.  It is just food in generic consumer packaging.  I can go to a supermarket if I want that kind of inspiration.  Later on these is a photo of some Chinese newspaper used as decoration.  Can you imagine if someone wallpapered their house with the New York Times?  Just because you don't understand the language don't mean it isn't a dumb idea..  I can go to a supermarket if I want that kind of inspiration.  Later on these is a photo of some Chinese newspaper used as decoration.  Can you imagine if someone wallpapered their house with the New York Times?  Just because you don't understand the language don't mean it isn't a dumb idea.	2002-04-17
US	52949629	R7MZ5XOGXLZVM	0679447164	965419216	Work Clothes (Chic Simple): Casual  Dress for Serious Work (Chic Simple Guides)	Books	2	17	20	N	N	not much content for the size	The first thing you notice is the avant-garde wannabe type setting which distracts from the message.  Then you notice there is a ton of \\"fluff\\" in the book.  Quotes from books written in the 1940s that are supposed to convey what fashion was like back then and stuff like that; I didn't buy this book to find out about the history work fashion through this century.<br />The book does have some useful information when it starts talking about fitting clothes and finding quality.  However, Josh Karlen's \\"The Indispensable Guide to Classic Men's Clothing\\" does a superior and more comprehensive job in this department.<br />The best part of this book is when it starts talking specifics about ensembles.  Unfortunately the captions that go along with the pictures often lack details that are necessary for a clueless shopper.  If I had a clue I probably wouldn't be looking in this book.  What kinds of slacks are those?  What color are they?  What fabric are they made of?  I know that I need to find my own what suits my own style and tastes but give me something to at least start with!<br />The downside is that this kind of information -- displays of men's clothing ensembles -- can be found in magazines like GQ for a fraction of the cost of this book.  If you want to learn more about some of the \\"theory\\" of fashion look to another book.  If you want more \\"concrete\\" examples then leaf through this book at the bookstore...and get a subscription to GQ.	2002-04-16
US	52949629	R2WU2S69564GYM	0966184718	566987616	Indispensible Guide to Classic Mens Clothing	Books	4	25	26	N	N	covers all the bases but could be improved	This book sticks pretty close to its avowed topic -- classic men's clothing.  You won't find discussions of jeans and tee shirts in here, for instance.  But you will find tons of great information on picking out quality &quot;classic&quot; clothing.  That doesn't mean you wouldn't be able to find business casual clothes if you read this book, but it definitely leans more towards the dressy side of things.<br />The only real problem with the book is the lack of photos.  They do a better job than some other books (I finally figured out the difference between herringbone and houndstooth!) but they don't have quite enough to help explain all of the many things they talk about.  Just a few more photos could have pushed this book into the five star territory.	2002-04-16
US	52949629	R2I3USRI9B6EHX	158574204X	43662617	The Storage Book: Over 250 Inspirational Ideas for Creating Stylish Home Storage	Books	3	7	7	N	N	tries to cover too much ground	The book delivers everything it says it is going to: 250 ideas for stylish home storage.  The problem is that the scope of the book is far too large.  You'll get storage ideas for every room in the house, for your garage, your garden, everything.  This means when you really get down to it and want some stylish storage ideas for, say, your bathroom, there are really only 10 or 15 of them.  I think it is more likely that most people are going to be interested in storage ideas for a particular room and thus a book that offered 250 ideas for stylish storage in the kitchen.  Feel free to browse through this book in the bookstore but you'll probably want something a little more focused.	2002-04-16
US	52949629	R315J3SF1O0PWG	0517887592	208389623	The New Apartment Book: Inspiring Ideas and Practical Projects for Decorating Your Home	Books	2	45	50	N	N	not very useful for &quot;new apartments&quot;	Don't get me wrong, there are certainly some nice designs in this book (although that will probably depend upon your specific tastes) and a VERY few guidelines/rules-of-thumb that are useful when decorating an apartment.  However, if you expected this book to have any relation to its title, you will be disappointed.<br />It says it is the new apartment book.  The two key words are &quot;new&quot; and &quot;apartment&quot;.  If you have a new apartment then wouldn't it stand to reason that you either don't have any (or much) furniture at all, what you have could stand to be upgraded, or maybe even you aren't sure if what you already have goes with the new apartment?  Michael doesn't address any of these concerns.  There are only a few sentences paying lipservice to the notion of trying to integrate different styles of furniture and architecture.  We never see the rooms BEFORE all of the design has been done, so it is hard to see what other alternatives might have been taken.<br />And what about the apartment aspect of the book?  The vast majority of the book really doesn't have anything specific to say about apartments at all.  It has sections on decorating kitchens and bedrooms and living rooms but doesn't really address the issues that an apartment dweller has to deal with.  Another review mentioned that the book mostly presumes you have free reign to paint and remodel if necessary, which isn't really true for anyone who lives in an apartment.  If you own the space it is called a condo (even here on the East Coast).  It isn't until the sections on &quot;storage&quot; and &quot;one space living&quot; that Michael talks about issues specifically related to living in an apartment.  The rest of the book could have been gotten from any old design book.  Unfortunately those two chapters are the shortest in the entire book.  Storage, a question near and dear to the hearts of every apartment dweller, gets four whole pages...two of which are full page photos and the other two having some meager text.<br />All in all there isn't much in this book to recommend it.  If you are specifically interested in figuring out how to handle decorating your apartment or condo there isn't a lot to recommend this book.  It has some nice designs -- although most other design books do to -- and nothing about the designs is really specific to apartments.	2002-04-16
US	52949629	R1CDPHBNEWUZX9	0385483937	666471582	Paisley Goes with Nothing: A Man's Guide to Style	Books	2	5	6	N	N	definitely a mixed bag	The book consists of a few chapters of prose (about picking out a suit, shoes, etc) sandwiched in between numerous lists.  Some of the information is good, some is decent, some is bad, some is wrong, and some is just plain out of place.  For instance, there is a brief section on being single and a longer section on travelling; several of the topics seemed out of place in a book about \\"style\\".  There is good information in this book but unfortunately you have to wade through a lot of chaff to get to the wheat: \\"10 Musts to Have in the Car --  a detailed map covering a 50-mile radius from your house.\\"  The book is also targetted at a slightly older demographic.  Of the fifty things that every man must know one of them is, \\"That Philip Roth, and not Norman Mailer, is the conscience of his generation.\\"  Does anyone under 35 care about either of those people?<br />There is certainly enough useful information in this book (and it is mercifully brief) that you should spend a day or two reading it should the opportunity avail itself.  Just don't spend any actual money on this book.  Check it out from the library.	2002-04-13
US	52949629	R3MFXMO0EW3DGM	0070016224	358313635	Dress Casually for Success. . .For Men	Books	2	15	16	N	N	not enough information to make it worth it	Luckily this book can be read in a sitting...big text and few pages.  Too bad there isn't enough information to make it worth sitting long enough to read.  This book commits the single biggest mistake that any fashion book can commit: it doesn't have pictures (especially color pictures) of the things it is talking about.  Wonder what worsted wool gabardine is?  I sure do!  They give a definition but no picture is present for me to understand how this is different from some other kind of lightweight wool.<br />The book does a few guidelines about kinds of clothing to consider wearing and ways to care for them.  However, we're talking about a few dozen pages of information.  That's the kind of thing I would expect to find on a webpage for free.<br />The biggest problem is they don't offer a lot of guidelines and never seem to tell you what things you absolutely shouldn't do.  So what you're left with is a few ideas but not really enough to build a wardrobe on.  You'd do just as well browsing through a few GQ magazines while waiting in line at the supermarket and then heading to a nice clothing store to figure out what worsted wool gabardine is on your own.	2002-04-13
US	52949629	RC4ZO9I7HRDCY	060960645X	749867643	10 Steps to Fashion Freedom: Discover Your Personal Style from the Inside Out	Books	3	19	23	N	N	good foundation but not enough	The general premise of this book is sound enough -- you need to spend some time introspecting to discover what style means to you before you go out and put down some dough on clothes.  This is certain to save yourself from the mistake of buying a leather pants when you'd be happier in a three-piece suit.  The problem is that the book is all theory and gives very little in the way of guidance as to how to translate that into practice.<br />The authors are real life image consultants and they help with that part of the process by going with their clients to stores, showing them what quality clothing looks and feels like, how to find it on the rack, how to try it on, what fifteen different shades of green look like on you and why.  This book doesn't try to convey any of that.  Probably no book can because it is such a personal thing.  In that sense, it really isn't this book's fault that it doesn't get a five star rating.  I'm not sure that any fashion book could get a five star rating because fashion and style are such personal things.<br />Nevertheless, I think the book could have done a better job of providing SOME kind of guidance.  What's the difference between worsted wool and crepe?  What do French cuffs look like?  How about color pictures of six different shades of green explaining to us which one has more red and which more blue?<br />I think this book provides an interesting and probably fundamental foundation on which to build your style.  But this book alone is not sufficient.  You'll need something with more concrete details to supplement the psychology and theory in this one.	2002-04-13
US	52949629	RK93UM22856U2	039952536X	558426653	Use What You Have Decorating: Transform Your Home in One Hour with 10 Simple Design Principles	Books	3	181	191	N	N	too many restrictions	A better title for this book would have been \\"How to Rearrange Your Single Purpose Living Room If You Have a Fireplace And Nice Furniture to Create a Comfortable Conversation Area\\".  She talks exclusively about living rooms and 90% of the problems she shows are solved by moving the furniture closer together so people can hold a conversation comfortably.  And not just any living room but a certain kind of formal living room.  Almost every room she shows has a fireplace and has a very regular geometric shape.  How do I create a focal point if my living room is an octagon with windows on almost every wall and no windowless wall is big enough to put a couch under?  Only one room she shows has a television in it.  How do I create a comfortable conversation area that also lets me (and my guests) watch television?  How can the fireplace be the focal point of the room if I also have a television in it?  What if I live in a 800 square foot apartment and don't have the space for the strict separation of duties that she seems to advocate?  What if I don't have a family room to put the television in?  What if I don't like my furniture or want to add to my collection?  While I find her low-cost use-what-you-already-have approach a nice alternative to the spend-$20,000-and-change-everything approach, sometimes just rearranging your furniture and art isn't going to cut it.<br />Instead what we get are 10 basic design guidelines.  And I do mean basic.  I honestly have to wonder about all of these people who have fireplaces and don't use them as the focal point of the room.  While it seems like what she says is just common sense, I suppose there is some good in having it written down.  It just seems like it isn't really enough information to fill an entire book and then charge $16 for it.<br />I didn't find the lack of color as annoying as some other reviewers but that's because Ward's design consists primarily of physical arrangement; the use of color wouldn't have helped make things much clearer but definitely would have added to the cost of the book.  Towards the end of the book she gives some lip service to the use of color and in that part of the book color photographs would have been useful.<br />It is also somewhat surprising that a book published in 1998 (my edition was published in October 1999) doesn't have a single URL to any of the sources she provides at the end of the book.	2002-04-08
US	52949629	R3NLCMOJIZYHWI	1563319225	599760084	Christopher Lowell's Seven Layers of Design: Fearless, Fabulous Decorating	Books	2	28	30	N	N	low on actual information	I picked up this book because I know nothing about design and had hoped this would be a gentle introduction to some of the basic ideas.  Unfortunately, there is very little of the sort in this book.  About the only two useful things I took away from this book are: approach the design process in stages (and don't jump stages) and how to pick neutral paint colors.  What is most amazing is what the book leaves out rather than what it includes.  Is this an introductory book?  What's faux finishing?  Why do I need an appendix to see what's in his toolbelt?  Why the conservative emphasis on neutral colors?  A couch is only $1000 why do I have to plan to keep it for 20 years by going with a style and color that (probably) won't go out of date?  How do I tell when a room is balanced or when an element needs more emphasis?  How do I decide whether I need new architectural elements?  What if I don't LIKE crown molding?<br />The actual seven stages of design are laid out in the first 50 pages of the book (which you could easily browse in a bookstore).  The remainder of the book details various projects.  Unfortunately, these descriptions aren't very good.  He often describes things that there are no photographs of.  (How am I supposed to judge whether the ceiling he picks out works with the rest of the room if there is never a photo of the completed ceiling?)  And there is often very little description of the motivations that lead to various design choices.<br />Lowell offers one particular method of design: creating a theatrical showcase for people who collect a ton of trinkets.  If you live in an apartment, if you prefer a more minimalist aesthetic, if you are interested in more daring designs, or even if you are just interested in learing more about the theory of design so you can express YOURSELF rather than just mimicking some famous designer, then this book won't be of much use to you.	2002-04-06
US	52949629	R2ELLB6DBQJ0VS	0679743464	683839369	Hard-Boiled Wonderland and the End of the World: A Novel (Vintage International)	Books	3	4	6	N	N	good quick read that doesn't quite measure up	Make no mistake, this book is an easy and enjoyable read; I read the majority of it on a flight from Boston to LA.  The first chapter is great but the rest of the book unfortunately fails to live up to the high standard it sets for itself.  I think it is easy to overrate this book; the entire underpinning of the book is a bunch of Star Trek-like scientific babble about cryptography and consciousness that has little bearing on reality and serves little purpose other than to provide a deus ex machina to move the characters along the road the author wants them to move down.  It is not a fantastic and amazing book, but it is a good book and there are worse ways to spend your time.	2002-03-25
US	52949629	R2IBI22VSGXBJC	0140275363	488928067	The Iliad	Books	4	5	6	N	N	very readable	This was my first foray into Homer; Fagles certainly makes it easy.  I can't speak to the fidelity of his translation or how this version compares to Lattimore's or Fitzgerald's or Pope's.  (Who has time to read six different translations when there are so many book I haven't read?)  But I can say that Fagles does a fantastic job at making The Iliad feel like something that would sound exciting if recited aloud in a pub, which I gather is more or less how it was originally done.<br />Yes, this is poetry but it isn't the overwrought flowery words in contorted sentences you might associate with poetry.  At times you forget what you are reading is technically a poem and not merely a novel.  Nearly every word seems perfectly placed to convey the feeling of power and breakneck pace that imbue the events Homer wrote about.<br />If you are afraid of tackling The Iliad you needn't be.  It is a hefty read, at over 600 pages, and while there are times when it drags -- long catalogues of troops, for instance -- for the most part the book feels almost contemporary.<br />The complaints that I did have -- what kept me from giving this five stars -- aren't about the text itself.  I didn't like the format of the book: the uneven edges of the pages make it difficult to flip to precisely the page you want.  I wish the text had some indication of when there was an endnote.  As a workaround you need to check the endnotes constantly to see if you've passed up a section they comment on, then go back and reread it, then read the endnote.  Finally, I thought the endnotes a little too sparse at times.  Early on they do a pretty good job of adding extra information and analysis but later on that seemed to fade out, almost like the person writing the end notes started the job full of excitement but somewhere around Book 9 decided it was an awful lot of work and not worth it.	2002-03-22
US	52949629	R1QU54VW99VK3X	0441005969	950318092	Riddle-Master	Books	3	17	31	N	N	very little new here	I suppose I can understand why so many other reviewers have given these books such high praise but I find myself unable to follow suit.  If you haven't read much other fantasy, or if you have but don't mind reading the same plots with the same characters then you will probably enjoy these books.<br />It's not so much that they are bad, rather that there simply isn't very much to recommend them.  They are simple books with simple characters that lack much depth beyond the stereotype they are given.  Many plot elements exist solely to drive the books towards their telegraphed conclusion.  (It is always frustrating when the reader has figured out something by the middle of the second book that takes the characters another books and a half to sort out themselves.)<br />In a lot of ways this is like the Reader's Digest version of Robert Jordan's The Wheel of Time.  Whining main character.  Improbable and inexplicable romances.  Annoying bickering between characters who should be deep in the honeymoon phase of their relationship.  It is certainly more focused and more concise than Jordan's work.  However, that conciseness comes at a price.  The only characters in the books are Kings and Queens and Wizards.  Despite taking place over the course of several years I can't recall the name of a single character that wasn't either a Wizard or born of royal blood.<br />There were other flaws that marred my enjoyment: the basic premise s of the Earth-Masters, their war, the High One, and the hereditary Land Rule aren't adequately explained giving their fundamental importance to the entire story line.  Not to mention there isn't even an attempt to explain why Morgon has the powers he does.  There are also lapses in consistency that leave the reader confused.  At times the Bad Guys are relentlessly chasing after protagonist.  Then they seemingly leave him alone for weeks on end with very little explanation about why the change in strategy.<br />Despite my above misgivings the book wasn't unenjoyable.  It simply felt like a book I had read a dozen other times under different titles.  I think this book finds it greatest popularity among a young adult audience that has little other exposure to the genre.	2002-03-19
US	52949629	R22B51M6FIKKH8	0345409469	137607328	The Demon-Haunted World: Science as a Candle in the Dark	Books	2	15	65	N	N	boring	I think the most relevant comment I've seen is from Cathy Sahu above, &quot;Who Are You Talking to, Dr. Sagan?&quot;<br />I'll save you 457 pages:<br />Science = good<br />If you don't believe in alien abductions the book is nothing more than preaching to the choice.  And pretty poor preaching to the choir at that.  The book attempts to be encyclopedic and ends up having as much depth as your average encyclopedia article.  Sagan ignores evidence contrary to his position.  He glosses over difficulties his position brings up in order to offer a more unified-looking front.  He loves science but seems uninterested in the science of science, having absolutely nothing to say about the philosophy of science.	2002-02-15
US	52949629	R2A41LM0GJO5WD	0300078803	135277436	The Spanish Inquisition: A Historical Revision	Books	4	99	107	N	N	best introduction to the Spanish Inquisition available	Kamen admirably doesn't attempt to answer all of the many questions that the Spanish Inquisition brings up.  Neither does he attempt to reduce it to a simple explanation.  Instead he shows us many aspects of the complicated history of the most famous tribunal in the world.  Kamen's work is even handed and attempts to understand the Spanish Inquisition on a historical rather than polemic basis.<br />Kamen's book does fall down in two ways however.  At times his arguments seem weak.  For instance, in his discussion of inquisitorial censoring and its affect on Spanish literature he uses book sellers in Barcelona in an attempt to show that it the index of banned books had little effect.  However, in other parts of the book he repeatedly points out in Catalan in general and Barcelona in specific the Inquisition had little power.  Kamen also fails to give any kind of comparison of Spanish literary output before and after the index.<br />Kamen's second weakness is his failure to put the Spanish Inquisition in context.  To a certain extent this is understandable.  The book is already over 300 pages, not counting end notes, and a line needs to be drawn somewhere.  However, it leaves out any details of the medieval inquisitions that were the basis for the Spanish Inquisition.  It also doesn't do a very good job of comparing the Inquisition to other tribunals and judicial systems.<br />It also would have been nice if Kamen's final chapter &quot;Inventing the Inquisition&quot; had done a better job of explaining how the mythology of the Inquisition grew to be.  For what it's worth, Edward Peters' Inquisition delves into many of these issues in more detail.<br />One note regarding the reader below from Florida.  He recommends Jean Plaidy's Spanish Inquisition.  It is worth noting that Plaidy's books are 40 years out of date and includes none of the wave of research that was came out in the 70s.  For instance, Plaidy contends that the Isabella and Ferdinand &quot;were determinedto have a unified country, and they did not believe this ambition could be achieved unless all their subjects accepted one religion.&quot;  This contention is hard to support given that Ferdinand and Isabella allowed Muslims to exist in their kingdom for 20 years after they forced Jews to convert or be exiled.  It wasn't until the rule of Charles V that Muslims were given the choice between baptism and exile.	2002-02-11
US	52949629	RGU2GLAYG5LYP	0520066308	541777750	Inquisition	Books	2	37	52	N	N	lots of information but poorly presented	This book's single best aspect is that it doesn't deal with just the Spanish Inquisition, as so many others do.  Peters shows us that the Spanish Inquisition didn't spring into existence fully formed.  Towards that end Peters starts with an overview of the evolution of Roman and Latin law theory and then discusses the medieval inquisitions that formed the basis of the more infamous Spanish Inquisition.  Peters also discusses the Italian Inquisitions, a welcome addition.<br />Peters attemps to show the inquisitions in the context of religious and secular realities of the time.  Peters contention is that the inquisitions were not especially notable in either the kinds of crimes they prosecuted, the ways they prosecuted them, and the severity of punishments meted out.  He is not wholly successful in this.<br />Part of the problem is that the book is rather poorly structured.  While each individual sentence and paragraph is written well enough, there often seem to be little in the way of guiding purpose forming everything into a coherent whole.  This often makes it difficult to understand what, if any, point the author is trying to make.  There are several instances where the author clearly expects the reader to understand a reference -- Languedoc stands out in my memory -- without adequately explaining the relevance.  At other points Peters will eventually explain the relevance, but dozens of pages after he has originally made the reference.  This can make for frustrating reading.<br />Another problem is that the author's main contention is that the inquisitions need to be examined in relation to the efforts of other judicial bodies of the time.  Unfortunately, Peters rarely offers much other than saying essentially \\"others were even worse\\".<br />After reading both this and Henry Kamen's The Spanish Inquisition I found some discrepancies that make me question Peters' bias.  For instance on p.94 Peters says that \\"...the Spanish Inquisition was not permitted to sentenceanyone to death.\\"  Kamen on p.202-3 offers a slightly different take, \\"[The secular authorities] were obliged to carry out the sentence of blood which the Holy Office was forbidden by law to carry out.  In all this there was no pretence that the Inquisition was not the body directly and fully responsible for the deaths that occurred.\\"  Peters' statement comes across as a whitewashing of responsibility.<br />There are several other points on which Kamen contradicts Peters.  As Kamen was a much better book I would recommend reading it before Peters', especially given my concerns about Peters' bias.	2002-02-11
US	52949629	R3C4TY76EBQRF3	0830637850	513514543	Complete Book of Home Inspection	Books	3	49	55	N	Y	okay but not fantastic	Despite the flaws in this book I haven't seen a better book for home buyers and owners.  (Although it might not be obvious that is who this book is targetted at, not professional inspectors.)  So if you are in the market for a house I would recommend you at least browse through this book.<br />The good parts are that the author lays out a methodical approach to inspecting a house and usually includes good descriptions of how to investigate and evaluate the various components and systems of the house.  The end of most chapters contains a checkpoint summary of that chapter.<br />The downsides are that the information in the book is almost a decade old now; this second version was published in 1993.  Sometimes the author assumes knowledge that I didn't have.  The book is targetted at a lay audience but doesn't really have enough illustrations and definitions and examples to really deliver on this promise.  For instance, when inspecting a hot-water heating system he says, &quot;A forced system will have a circulating pump in the return line near the boiler.&quot;  It would be nice a picture was shown to illustrate the difference between having a circulating pump and not having one.<br />Also, the author gets something wrong in at least one place.  When talking about tankless water heaters he says, &quot;From an energy-conservation point of view, a tankless water heater is not desirable.  It is inefficient and wasteful of energy.&quot;  This is untrue today and I doubt whether it was true when the book was written.  The US Department of Energy in their reference brief on tankless heaters acknowledges that tankless heaters are more efficient and less wasteful of energy; that is part of the reason they are used in Europe and Japan where energy prices are higher than here in America.  They also tend to have longer life expectancies than conventional tank heaters.<br />I find the author's statements strange because they make little sense.  It also makes me a little worried because now I wonder what else he got wrong that I don't know about.  Despite this, I still think the book is very useful to potential home buyers.ecause now I wonder what else he got wrong that I don't know about.  Despite this, I still think the book is very useful to potential home buyers.	2002-01-05
US	52949629	REZR6XW4D5TUL	0192100246	954541581	Think: A Compelling Introduction to Philosophy	Books	3	258	282	N	N	okay for a first book	There seem to be two main kinds of &quot;introduction to philosophy&quot; books out there.  The first kind, like Anthony Gottlieb's The Dream of Reason, Will Durant's Story of Philosophy, and Bertrand Russell's A History of Western Philosophy, are not actually introductions to philosophy but introductions to the history of philosophy.  After reading several of these I have become convinced that while they have their place, they are not a good introduction to philosophy.  When was the last time you took an introductory science class that focused on the history of science rather than science itself?<br />The second kind of introduction is unfortunately much rarer.  This kind attempts to explain the ideas that philosophy attacks and some of the arguments surrounding the various theses.  Anthony Flew's Introduction to Western Philosophy is one of these (unfortunately it also suffers from a perverse desire to keep some kind of chronological narrative and is far too dense for an introduction).  Simon Blackburn's Think is yet another.  I think this is a much more fruitful approach for someone actually interested in an introduction to philosophy rather than merely learning how to drop names at parties to sound educated.<br />Think has much to commend it.  It clearly delineates a number of key topics.  It attempts to show a back and forth of the various ideas held on these topics.  For the most part, the writing is light, the explanations easy to understand.  There are a number of brief excerpts from actual source material along with commentary on them to help us understand what is meant and how it might fit in to the modern world.  Blackburn starts with Descartes and the modern age of philosophy rather than boring us with page upon page of medieval or ancient philosophy that is almost impossible to understand in an introduction to philosophy because of the sheer amount of context such material requires to be understood.<br />The downside is that Blackburn, despite his protestations to the contrary, doesn't do a very even handed job of presenting differences of opinions.  He is quite clearly an atheist of the liberal English analytic school.  Even if you agree with his positions -- and I do for the most part -- you still wish for a slight more equitable treatment in an introduction.  This bias informs most of his commentary; there is a lot of Hume and virtually no Kant, and no other German idealists at all.  I understand that the book is a slim volume and cannot be comprehensive, even as an introduction, of the various schools of modern philosophical thought.  However, Blackburn spends far more time defending his favorite points of view than he does ones he disapproves of; the chapter on God is the most egregious example of this.  However, as long as the reader uses some critical thinking I think the book is still useful as a KIND of introduction.  With the caveat that the reader doesn't stop here and instead continues on to learn more about the viewpoints Blackburn gives short shrift.  Perhaps there is no such thing as a perfect one-book introduction to a field of study like philosophy.<br />There are few other smaller complaints about the book.  The chapter on logic was one of the weakest.  The explanations were often hard to follow.  Only inductive logic is mentioned, despite the predominant role deductive logic has had for the past several thousand years (again, I think this is an example of Blackburn's bias showing).  The final chapter, however, was by far the weakest.  It was almost entirely Blackburn's personal opinion.  Unlike every other chapter in the book it is devoid of references to major philosophers and excerpts from their works.  It feels completely out of place given the rest of the book.  Also it would be nice if Blackburn had given a recommended reading list.  After all, if he has done his job the reader should now hunger to read more about philosophy.  But where to go?  Are we to dive straight into the source material?  But which Locke do we start with?  Or perhaps Kant comes first?  There is no guidance from Blackburn on this relatively important issue for the self-guided neophyte.<br />In all, this is a decent introduction, if not a great one.  It's strongest point are that it is easy to read, which is a very strong point indeed in an introduction to philosophy.	2002-01-02
US	52949629	R1CYTWV1QJU2K2	0312874561	671493062	Tales of the Dying Earth	Books	2	13	41	N	Y	overrated	I agree with most of what elyon has written above in his review.  Our largest point of disagreement, I think, is the final rating to be given the book in light of the many (fatal) flaws he points out.  I cannot get beyond the bad plotting and characterization to see its historical significance as making this a worthy read.<br />The first book is a collection of short stories set in a vaguely interesting world.  That it is the &quot;earth&quot; is neither here nor there, really, as there is nothing in the world to make it seem anything at all like our own.  I'm not usually one for short stories so I found very little to like in this.  Glimpses of a possibly interesting world tied together with shallow characterization and simple plots.<br />The next two books should really be treated as one volume as they follow Cugel through a series of misadventures.  Frankly I became bored and stopped reading before the end of the second volume of Cugel.  The separate adventures are largely incoherent.  There is nothing tying them together other than a vaguely defined need for Cugel to get from point A to point B.  There are numerous continuity lapses that are hard to understand.<br />All of these could perhaps be overlooked if Cugel himself were an interesting person to read about.  Except he isn't.  He is stupid, vain, cruel, and scheming.  None of which are necessarily bad but Cugel lacks that certain charisma that good anti-heroes and villains have.  You simply don't care if Cugel makes it to point B.  He could have died at any of a hundred spots along the journey and I wouldn't have cared.<br />If I don't care about the main character and the setting isn't interesting enough to keep my attention why pain myself further by continuing to read?<br />Two stars.  Read the first book of short stories if you're really interested.  It is a quick read, gives you a taste for what the world is like, and lets you see the generally shallow plotting and characterization that will dominatethe remainder of the volume.  If you fall in love with those short stories then you might find the rest of the book to your liking.	2001-11-15
US	52949629	RZIDREMOR70MC	0671201581	635633775	A History of Western Philosophy	Books	4	8	8	N	N	excellent introduction	It seems that the previous reviews cover most of the praise and objections that can be offered.  I will reiterate those that deserve special emphasis.  Many others have pointed out Russell's biases.  As some have noted they are hardly hidden and quite clear to the reader.  zencoyote above points out that this is only to be expected.  Do we really believe that someone, anyone, can write a history of anything and not let their biases influence what events are given prominence and which are not?  Russell's biases are clear (he often points them out to the reader himself) and add color to the text.  If you want to read a history with a different set of biases then find a different author.<br />The strengths of this book lie in the first two thirds -- dealing with the ancient Greeks and the medieval scholastics.  When it reaches the modern age it begins to lose some of its brilliance.  The selection of topics is curious -- Byron is included but Voltaire is not, Dewey is present but not Kierkegaard.  A strangely large amount of space is devoted to Locke and I couldn't help but feel that he didn't do justice to Hegel's views (even though I think I am in general agreement with Russell about them).<br />The most interesting aspects of this book are that Russell attempts to show philosophy in the context of society at large and provides a criticism of the various philosophies.  This criticism is especially useful for a novice.	2001-11-01
US	52949629	R1QOU673CEPPYJ	1585670081	69847932	Cities in Flight	Books	2	16	25	N	N	may be a classic but I didn't like it	This omnibus was written over a period of about a decade and it shows; the writing tends to be uneven and there are numerous continuity errors.  The first book, They Shall Have Stars, is really just an extended &quot;idea&quot; short story where Blish shows how eternal life (through drugs) and faster-than-light travel become realities in 2018.  The future society he imagines shows that the story was written in the 50s.  In Blish's 2018, America has become an authoritarian police state to cope with its ongoing cold war is the Soviet Union.  Most of this short book (120 pages) is full of exposition as one character explains to another character what is going on.  Not a very exciting book, especially since most of it is an explanation of a world that is hard to take seriously and science we now know to be patently false.<br />The second book, A Life for the Stars, is easily the weakest of the group and seems to have been written for no reason other than to sell a short story to the teenage market.  The characterization of the main character is especially poor as he rarely seems like 17 year old boy.  The conclusion is confusing more than relevatory as no explanation is given for why New York City needs a City Manager or what such a person would do.<br />The third book is a patchup of a couple of short stories Blish wrote in the early 50s.  It is the earliest book of the four and this is where the problems really begin to show.  The entire series is pure space opera and if you can lose yourself in the adventures then maybe the bad science and inconsistencies won't bother you.  I couldn't get past all my niggling complaints, however.  My suspension of disbelief came crashing down under the combined weight of the bad science, the bad economics, the inconsistent world, the arbitrary plot turns, and the boring 1950s characterizations.<br />For instance, the only female character in the book is Dee, with whom Amalfi falls in love with for no reason that we can see.  DespiteAmalfi being the sole point of view for the entire book, the reader is just as surprised as Dee is when the revelation is made.  During the March to Earth numerous Okies drop out in order to work at lucrative planets along the way, yet Amalfi says they must leave the galaxy because there is no work to be found anywhere.  How are they able to convince the City Fathers of the &quot;all purpose city&quot; to do what they say?  Why does the bindlestiff Okie city care about capturing women?  Why does Amalfi decide to land on an inhabited planet in the Magellan cloud with the intention of stealing it from them?  Why does news of the economic collapse spread so fast but news of technological advancements waits until Okies can bring them around?  Why does Amalfi say that Okies can't work on something for four or five years and then have his people spend several years outfitting a planet with spindizzy drives?  Why did the city feel the collision when it hit the orbital fortress -- the spindizzy field is supposed to prevent that?  If they've got the planet going so fast that it can't even be measured in multiples of the speed of light, how can other people be communicating with them using the ultraphone -- something that works at just 25% faster than the speed of light?  Why is it that none of the other mayors of Okie cities have ever heard of Amalfi, despite the fact that he has been the only mayor of the most famous Okie city for over 500 years?  Amalfi said he was going to resign when they make planetfall so why is he still giving orders a hundred years later?  Just on and on and on there are things that make no sense to me.<br />One of the biggest problems, I think, is that Blish pushes the hobo metaphor way too far.  The cities are supposed to wander around the galaxy doing work for hire.  Yet New York supposedly has tens of thousands of residents.  What do they do?  The jobs that New York takes over the course of the book don't provide work for more than a few dozen people it seems.  Why are there thousands on board?  Blish constantly refers to New York as if it were a single monolithic entity, instead of a metropolis comprised of hundreds of thousands of people.  How is spending time in a huge city flying through space for years on end between planet falls going to satisfy the wanderlust that these Okies supposedly have?  If Okies are allegedly so a-social and standoffish why do they live in huge cities with thousands of other people?<br />Finally, how the heck does someone get &quot;space tanned&quot;?  What is that supposed to mean?  The spindizzy fields prevent radiation from entering.<br />At the end I just lost interest.  The characterization was relatively weak.  Amalfi is a character who is supposed to be hundreds of years old but he doesn't seem much different from any other character in fiction.  He acts just like any other 50-something mayor of a big city has ever acted.  Blish never has him deal with any of the potentially interesting questions that being effectively immortal raises.  Instead we find the city of New York and its mayor go through a series of improbable and, frankly, not very interesting adventures.<br />Obviously, however, other people like the book.  If you're going to give it a try I would recommend starting with the third book, Earthman, Come Home.  If you end up liking that then you can read the others after that without any loss in understanding.  <br />In the end I give it two stars because it has some interesting ideas.  It just never goes anywhere with them.	2001-10-16
US	52949629	R2RXITZWNGP528	0915368617	546251587	Norstrilia	Books	4	3	7	N	N	excellent until the ending	The book is full of great ideas and interesting characters.  This is doubly impressive given its age; a lot of old science fiction just doesn't seem original, interesting, or relevant when you're reading it 10, 20, or 50 years after it was originally written.  Norstrilia suffers from no such problems.  In fact, really only two complaints can be levelled at it, and both of those might just be my opinion.<br />The first is that Norstrilia takes place in a vast and richly detailed universe that Cordwainer Smith details in a series of short stories.  The book relies strongly on this background material, a lot is taken for granted, and very little is explicitly explained.  While it is never incomprehensible because of this, I also had the feeling that the reading experience was something less than it should have been because of all the references that were lost on me.  Reading Norstrilia has certainly convinced me that I should give Smith's short stories a try, though.<br />My second complaint is about the ending.  I just didn't like it.  More than that, it seemed out of character for Rod McBan, and just generally felt too much like the author was forcing the story to go in directions to suit his own ends rather than where it naturally wanted to go.  On the one hand, why would the pragmatic McBan settle for a &quot;dream&quot; with his love rather than the real thing?  Why does a citizen of Norstrilia, one who has spent his entire life fighting the system, give up so easily when an offworlder argues that he can't stay with C'mell?  The realization that C'mell didn't love him wholly seems to come from nowhere (perhaps it is explained in the shorter fiction somewhere) and seems a half-hearted post-hoc rationalization for not being with her.  The sudden realization of feelings for the girl back home had no real explanation.  Just in general it felt like the author wanted McBan parted from his money, parted from C'mell, and back on Norstrilia away from everything.<br />(As aside note it would have been interesting, especially given that he is going to live for a thousand years, if we could have seen Rod McBan experiencing the great plan that the Underpeople have the universe.  Instead we last seem him only a few decades after we first meet him.)<br />Despite, the wholly unsatisfying ending, everything leading up to it more than made up for it.  Now I just need to get a copy of Cordwainer Smith's short stories.	2001-10-02
US	52949629	R2F00WK3QYVM81	0156002108	367931854	Towing Jehovah (Harvest Book)	Books	3	11	14	N	N	the whole is less than the sum of the parts	... You see the corpse of God being towed by a supertanker on the cover. The back cover starts with \\"God is dead\\" and proceeds to promise a tale full strange and troubled characters who are called on to deal with his rotting corpse. Morrow gets high marks doing an excellent job researching and explaining how an oil tanker operates. He does raise some interesting topics to consider: if God is the source of morality, does that mean we have free reign to do as we please after he dies? How could God die? However, it fails to even mention other interesting questions: if God is dead what becomes of those in heaven? What of Satan?<br />Despite the high marks for the idea and the setting, the execution leaves something to be desired.<br />I had three main complaints. The first is the relatively shallow characterization of most everyone in the book. The \\"romance\\" between the militant feminist and the tanker captain was probably the most egregious example of this, as the author gives nowhere near enough insight into the characters to make this believable. But it pervades the book. The nun Miriam dances naked with a priest in the belly button of God, yet neither one of them is ever seen really examining their actions. Indeed, that scene is the last we ever see of Miriam in the book. The characters who take part in the grizzly Roman coliseum style execution are never seen examining themselves and their actions.<br />Secondly, the entire sojourn on Van Horne island felt contrived. Worse than contrived it raises the question of what power could have arranged for it to happen? If God is dead what force could cause an island to form where none had ever been? If God is dead who worked the miracle of his return? If God is dead what is the source of the mysterious fog? Yet the characters barely think to question the situation.<br />Finally, the final resolution felt poorly constructed. The characters ask the question, \\"Who has the right to take away belief in God?\\" Rather than engagein any interesting and vigorous debate on the subject -- \\"Do people have a 'right' to believe in God in the first place?\\", \\"Does the Truth trump concerns of Faith?\\", \\"What man has the right to second guess the desires of the Almighty?\\" -- the characters mumble agreement and the book is suddenly over. The ending feels especially [small] in light of the sequel, where God's death has been made public and, in fact, his corpse turned into a theme park.<br />The unfortunate thing is how much promise this book has.	2001-09-23
US	52949629	R93KWWU591PFP	0886774314	137588323	Downbelow Station (Alliance-Union Universe)	Books	4	10	10	N	N	good with flaws	This book sets the stage of Cherryh's Alliance/Union universe, which is one of the more interesting and realistic science fiction universes out there.  Cherryh has taken pains to imagine how a human exploration of the stars might realistically progress and what she comes up with is intriguing.  This book focuses on the station in the Pell system, a place that sits between past and future, Earth and Beyond; Pell finds itself the focal point of the culmination of the long conflict between Earth and her rebellious Beyond colonies.<br />While the setting and story are interesting and engrossing there are a few flaws that mar what would have otherwise been a near perfect book.  The first is the near absence of characterization.  This is especially a shame because in several of her other books Cherryh does an exemplary job of characterization.  In Downbelow Station, however, we are hard pressed to tell the difference between Emilio and Damon Konstantin.  We never completely understand the motivations or goal of Union, Earth, or Fleet.  We never understand why the inhabitants of Q are treated (and act like) sub-human criminals.  Honors for worst characterization, however, go to Signy Mallory, the most pivotal character in the book.<br />This problem comes to full head in the climax of the book when suddenly we fail to understand the reasons for the actions these characters take.  And without that understanding it, unfortunately, feels like nothing more than a deus ex machina used to resolve an otherwise unresolvable situation.	2001-09-20
US	52949629	R2YDUTZAYOLR73	0553292250	616663200	Against A Dark Background	Books	2	9	20	N	N	a confused tale	This is a confusing, disappointing book. I wish I could say that it had potential and the author simply dropped the ball on the follow through, but I'd be lying to you. Every book has three parts: setting, story, and characters. None of the three are especially strong or noteworthy in this book.<br />The main character, Sharrow, is never given much fleshing out. We are given some hints about why she and her half-sister hate each other so, but one incident alone does not explain that kind of hatred. Likewise, we are never really sure why she is so selfish and rebellious. We don't understand why she continues to keep in touch with her cousin.... We don't understand why she and Miz broke off their relationship. We don't understand why the \\"team\\" broke up and went their separate ways. We don't understand why the \\"team\\" formed in the first place. Why she was so quick to adopt Feril into the \\"team\\".<br />The other characters are even less fully developed. The remainder of her team are little more than cardboard cut outs. Dloan the strong, silent type. Miz the playful and dashing criminal. The beautiful and seductive Zefla. We have no idea why they joined the \\"team\\" in the first place, why they allowed it to be split up, why Sharrow is their \\"leader\\", or why they are ready, at less than a moment's notice to risk their lives for Sharrow after years of not speaking to each other.<br />The story is just as confused. On the surface it is a rather generic story about searching for some lost artifact that great grandfather knows the whereabouts of and has left clues pointing to. Really, it doesn't require very much work to find it and one wonders why the device has been missing for seven thousand years. The book feels filled out silly little plot devices the author has thrown in. For instance, the device which no one can find is not very well hidden in the Embargoed Areas. Well, duh, wouldn't that be just about the first place you'd look? There are numerous similar things: likewhy Sharrow continues to travel as Ysul Demri even after she tells herself that the Huhsz are probably aware she's traveling under that alias; why everyone suggests Feril go to \\"defend\\" the device even after they've come to understand that only Sharrow can get to it; why this trained combat team just generally seems to inept. It goes on and on.<br />Finally comes the setting. The world is big and different and just doesn't make sense. And if the reader can't understand the setting then the reader can't understand what possibilities, what avenues of action are open to the characters in their quest. For instance, the entire impetus of the book: the Huhsz getting official permission to assassinate Sharrow makes no sense. The explanation given is that this is better for social stability than having unregulated. Except what happens if the assassination fails? Are the assassins supposed to just accept that? What kind of world does Banks live in that zealots give up just because the time limit on their assassination permit expired? It is never clear how this world came to be...a world that has existed for thousands of years yet is a million light years from the nearest star. How did the people get there? Why does the current patchwork of balkanized republics exist? What kinds of powers does the Court actually have?<br />Maybe I'm just too shallow or too dense or something. But basically, I just didn't get it. I didn't get Geis' plot. I didn't get the Huhsz's plot I didn't get the characters. I didn't get Sharrow's motivations. I struggled with this book. It took me a long time to finally finish it. I kept reading it bit by bit, waiting for it to get good; it had come highly recommended. Then one day I realized I was on page 360 out of 480 and it wasn't going to \\"get good\\". This was as good as it got. Maybe Bank's other books are better. I hope so.	2001-09-09
US	52949629	R22QONVR9GM0AV	0385333498	794708589	The Sirens of Titan: A Novel	Books	3	10	32	N	N	whence the high acclaims?	A lot of people seem to feel this is Vonnegut's best work. Be that as it may, I still wasn't very impressed. It was, however, better than the only other Vonnegut book I've read, Player Piano. But that isn't saying much. The book does have a somewhat humorous and not completely tired premise. However, that hardly makes up for the many weaknesses of the book. The first shortcoming is the poor characterization. Indeed, for the majority of the book the main character is a tabla rasa, virtually all personality wiped clean by induced amnesia, a tired trick if there ever was one. What little glimpses of his personality we had been given earlier in the book are obliterated under this hackneyed device. The other characters are equally flat and cardboard: the child savior, the virgin mother, the manipulator of events, all of them are flat and unconvincing. (One complaint about Vonnegut's writing. I wouldn't go so far as to say he is an outright misogynist but he not only cannot write female characters he has absolutely no imagination regarding them, either. This book is supposed to take place in a future not too far from our own yet we have a female character who attended a finishing school (how prevalent were those even back in 1959?) and has been married for seven years but is still a virgin. How are we supposed to take Vonnegut seriously when his characters are laughable caricatures?) While very little science fiction ages well, Vonnegut's is especially bad. Other authors, like Arthur C. Clarke actually took pains to understand not only current society and technology but the ways in which they might change in the future. Vonnegut does nothing of the sort. The ease with which Rumfoord wipes away all of the religions of the world is a joke. It comes across as nothing so much as Vonnegut writing himself into a corner and not knowing how to get out without some sleight of hand and hoping the reader doesn't notice. Unfortunately the book is full of such problems. For instance,why does Unk so readily agree to spend the rest of his life on Titan? Why do the woman and her child go with him? Why does Rumfoord want Unk to go to Titan in the first place? What is the point of Unk's time on Mercury? Speaking of Mercury, the riddle of how to escape was beyond stupid. Vonnegut apparently is unfamiliar with the concept of gravity. Are we to believe that a ship that only takes off and lands vertically would somehow be able to fly upside down? Once again it feels like the author has a destination in mind (getting the main characters to Titan so he can reveal his revelation about the meaning of life) but hasn't a clue about how to get them there without resorting to deus ex machinas. Finally we get to the climax of the book, where we are promised that, despite the apparent pointlessness of existence, Vonnegut will actually explain the point of existence. To be sure, it is a cute and vaguely clever explanation.  However, it is certainly not an explanation of why we exist. If anything, it is an explanation of why we do the things we do. Which is hardly the same thing at all. Vonnegut seems to have confused the themes of this book: the majority of his book seems to be about the pointlessness of existence, yet at the end he fails to address the question in any way whatsoever. Which is fine, there's no reason it has to be answered. But he proffers an answer as if he were answering that question when he is actually answering a completely different one. One time at a party Vonnegut was told by his publisher that he should write another book. He responded that he already had an idea for one. The publisher took him into the bedroom and Vonnegut proceeded to explain what would become The Sirens of Titan. The only problem was he had lied. He hadn't had an idea for a book. He had made it up on the spur of the moment when the publisher asked for details. It seems like he never bothered to go back and fill in the details that this book badly needed. It is a decentread, but with all those problems never addressed, it is prevented from being a great read	2001-08-28
US	52949629	R8E2ANHCMJQ4P	1587150492	688341902	The Man Who Used the Universe	Books	3	9	15	N	N	enjoyable fluff	If you approach this book as mindless entertainment you probably won't be terribly disappointed.  Of course, neither will you be wholly satisfied.  The book has an interesting premise but one that is perhaps impossible to deliver on fully.<br />The main character, Kees van Loo-Macklin is the most brilliant, ruthless human the known galaxy has ever dealt with.  It is, of course, very difficult for an author to realistically portray characters who are smarter than themselves.  Foster tries to get around this by rarely having Loo-Macklin in the narrative.  Instead, most of the story is told from the viewpoint of the one alien who devotes his entire life to trying to understand Loo-Macklin.  This has the unfortunate effect of making the alien Nuel seem more human than Loo-Macklin.  So not only does the author seem unable to realistically portray Loo-Macklin, he further disappoints by giving us an alien that doesn't feel very alien.<br />The removal of Loo-Macklin from the main narrative, while understandable both because of the difficulties of accurately portraying such a supposedly brilliant and ruthless person and in an attempt to keep him as mysterious to the reader as he is supposed to be to the rest of the universe, ends up being the biggest problem with the book.  The reader is simply left with very little reason to accept both Loo-Macklin's brilliance and motivation other than the author tells us so.  The final denouement when the alien gets Loo-Macklin to answer the question, &quot;Why?&quot; ends up feeling, although not quite as empty and trite as Alfred Bester's The Demolished Man, not much better, either.  Without having critical insight into Loo-Macklin a great many of the choices he makes don't make a whole lot of sense, even in retrospect.<br />One final complaint: the plotting was a little TOO pat.  Loo-Macklin has schemes within schemes within schemes and they all seem to work out perfectly.  It would have been nice to once, just once, have seen his first plan fail and have backup plans come into play.  It would have been so much more impressive if Loo-Macklin's final scheme were realized even in the face of errors along the way.	2001-08-22
US	52949629	R3B1IFE2T6DAQ3	0500275475	986635746	An Introduction to Western Philosophy	Books	2	30	42	N	N	definitely not an introduction	While the idea of this book -- philosophy introduced through a series of ideas rather than a series of personalities -- sounds like a good one, the execution fails.  Perhaps, though, that is the fault of this book and not the idea itself.  Certainly this is plenty of evidence that many of the faults lie with the author.  I am not a stupid person yet I found the prose impenetrably dense.  I often found myself rereading the same paragraph over and over again.  And even after making sense of that single paragraph I still had no idea how it stood in relation the others around it.  Or even what larger point the author was trying to make at that point in the book.  Looking around at reviews of other books by this author it seems that a) I am not alone in feeling this way around his writing and, b) this is not the only book of his to suffer from this.<br />But even if you can (somehow) put aside the contorted writing the larger question stands: How does the book rate an \\"Introduction to Western Philosophy\\"?  Well, quite poorly, I must say.  Part of the problem is that the there is very little in the way of introduction of the dramatis persona.  While this is fine for luminaries such as Plato and Aristotle, I don't think it passes muster for Hume and Aquinas.  Philosophers are introduced and left behind with reckless abandon.  If you don't already know the names I fear to think how confusing this must be.<br />And what of the ideas themselves?  Is this a good introduction to them?  Maybe it is just me, but I hardly think so.  He continually introduces ideas and doesn't even attempt to address the objections that immediately spring into my mind.P>Case in point: Plato's Theory of Forms.  Almost immediately after they are introduced the reader thinks to himself: how on earth can anyone believe there is some objectively perfect definition of Just or Beauty?  How can one reconcile the differences that obviously exist in the world when one society believes that worshipping the old is Just and that long, thin fingers are Beautiful while another society believes the old are dead weight to be removed and that short, stubby fingers are Beautiful?  The description of the Theory of the Forms doesn't begin to address this.<br />Eventually Flew DOES introduce Hume and his notion of subjectivism, which is exactly the reader's initial objection.  But Flew uses it only to make a point about some is/ought failing in Plato's Theory of the Forms.  I must admit to being totally mistified about the relevance here.  This being an introductory book (at least claiming to be one), this is inexcusable.<br />The book does have a few good points.  It quotes quite a bit from the material under discussion, including a few excerpts of a several pages.  This is great for getting a feel for the style of the philosopher under discussion.  Books like The Story of Philosophy are sorely lacking in this respect.  On the other hand, most philosophers are not especially clear writers and Flew doesn't always offer sufficient commentary for a novice student to figure out exactly what is being said.<br />In any case, don't waste you time or money on this one.  Maybe this book is good if you already have gotten past the novice stage.  (But then why are you reading this book?)  There have got to be better introductions to philosophy, although I don't know what they are yet.  My next attempt will be Bertrand Russell's A History of Western Philosophy.	2001-08-15
US	52949629	R37HYAN0D01LR6	0520216369	978862680	Importing Diversity: Inside Japan's JET Program	Books	3	24	26	N	N	not very useful	This book attempts to be a treatise of Japan's JET program.  It succeeds in some ways but fails in many more.<br />The first problem is that the material is dated; the bulk of his observations come from 1988-1989.  While this provides a good sense of history for the program it makes the book less than useful for those who are interested in how the JET program operates today.  To a certain extent this is rectified in the final chapter but the treatment of the modern JET program is brief and superficial.<br />So if the book isn't a great guide to the modern JET program, how does it fare as a history of the program's foundations?  Even here it is flawed.  He breaks it into three main sections: the national perspective, the regional perspective, and the local perspective.  The problem is that both the regional and local perspectives are based on very few observations.  For instance, the entire regional chapter is based on interviews with one single administrator.  A similar problem pervades much of the book.  While I have no doubt that the events described are representative, the reliance on a single source for so much is a detraction from a book that presents itself as a broad based overview.<br />My final complaint is that the book explicitly states that the most prominent feature of JET nowadays is its functional as a cultural exchange program.  However, this aspect of the program gets almost no treatment.  The majority of the time is spent discussing the English teaching aspects of the program: interaction with other teachers, team teaching, classroom motivation, etc.  It seems strange to spend so much time on something the author acknowledges is not the main focus of the program and so little time on what he admits is the main focus.	2001-08-09
US	52949629	R2XM8EREQV5DD0	0809095211	504768367	Dogs and Demons: Tales From the Dark Side of Modern Japan	Books	3	20	37	N	N	really, really bad but you should still read it	First the good: if you are interested in modern Japanese culture and society -- and especially if you are thinking about going to live in Japan -- you should read this book.  It addresses a number of issues that, to my knowledge, haven't really been talked about in English language books.  It shows the many flaws, perhaps fatal flaws, that are present in modern Japan.  Reading this book is extraordinarily informative.<br />Now the bad.  When this book is bad, it is really, really bad.  And it is bad in a number of different ways.  Sometimes the badness is a result of incomplete, incoherent, and unconvincing arguments.  For instance, he suggests that the Japanese government's replacing foreign teachers who have been in Japan for a long time with foreign teachers who have short term contracts is a result of xenophobia and racism.  This may very well be the case but his argument doesn't make sense.  One would expect foreigners who have been in the country longer to be less &quot;foreign&quot; than newly arrived foreigners.<br />Sometimes the problem is he fails to explain how the problem is any worse in Japan than it is elsewhere in the world.  For instance, he rants at length about how Japanese bureaucrats spend money on useless projects just because the money is in the budget and if it doesn't get spent their budget will be less the next year.  This is how virtually every burueacracy on the planet works.  You're going to have to work harder to convince me this is a problem worth devoting page after page to.  After all, I'm only interested in problems that are unique to Japan, not present in every modern nation on the planet.<br />At other times it is a result of Kerr's biases.  For instance, he implicitly assumes that manga is an inferior form of &quot;literature&quot;.  He never offers an argument except to derogatorily refer to them as &quot;comics&quot;, implying that comics cannot address mature issues or appeal to adults.  (Ironically, later on in his chapter onfilm he says that manga CAN do exactly this, so one is left wondering why he was trashing them in the first place.)<br />But worst of all is when the author is just plain wrong.  I don't mean his opinions are wrong, I mean his facts are wrong.  This is bad because I can only tell when his facts are wrong when he delves into areas that I personally am familiar with.  I have no idea what other areas of his book are just plain wrong...and I have no idea.<br />For starters, look at his denunciation of the Japanese economy.  While he makes lots of good points -- mostly the same points other economic commentators have made -- he seems to be saying that a root cause of this is Japanese stocks' refusal to pay dividends.  Virtually every one of his references to dividends -- and their applicability to corporate finance, desirability, etc, etc -- are just plain wrong.  A company can either pay dividends or use the capital.  In reality, not paying dividends is BETTER (at least in the United States) since dividends are subject to income tax.  But if the company keeps the money then capital appreciation occurs...so proceeds are taxed as capital gains rates (which are less).<br />Another example of the horrible nature of this book: please just completely ignore the chapter on film.  Seriously, just skip it.  He begins with the amazing claim that Kurosawa's films are considered more comtemporary than, for instance, Lawrence of Arabia.  No one in their right mind considers Kurosawa contemporary.  Then he argues that big business doesn't run the film industry in America and that's why we have popular avant garde films raking in the big bucks, whereas in Japan they are relegated to art houses where they make little money.  What world does he live in?  Certainly not America.  His discussion of Hong Kong cinema is equally flawed.  He says, for instance, that Jackie Chan's Rumble in the Bronx was a Hollywood film.  It goes downhill from there.<br />If you are interested in modern Japan, read this book.  If you want to live in Japan, read this book.  But if you don't have the critical mental faculties to separate wheat from chaff, and insight from B.S., please don't read this book.  It will give you a severely distorted picture of reality.<br />Plus the book could have really used an editor.  It was way too long and repetitive.	2001-07-23
US	52949629	R1UHQV4QKGT76W	0679748199	79113792	Voltaire's Bastards: The Dictatorship of Reason in the West	Books	1	38	53	N	N	badly written, badly argued, badly edited	It is hard to fit all of my complaints into a 1,000 words.  <br />The first thing you notice is that Saul never defines &quot;reason&quot;.  Quite an accomplishment given the size of the book.  Indeed, at times Saul seems to speak approvingly of reason, for instance when referring to Thomas Jefferson.  One is left with the inescapable conclusion that Saul is using &quot;reason&quot; in a non-standard sense.  This is all the more ironic for the fact that early in the book Saul claims that the enemies of &quot;good&quot; never speak clearly and always try to obfuscate their point.  Saul apparently doesn't think he fits that definition.<br />Saul continually states claims that a casual reader can't help but think are false.  Then he doesn't even attempt to argue or justify his claim.  Apparently if you don't believe him apriori, he's not going to be bothered to try to convince you.  For instance, his claim that civilizations that cannot distinguish between reality and fantasy are near their end.  Apparently he is unaware of the long life of aboriginal societies depite their belief in mythic fantasy.<br />Saul seems to have a tenuous grasp on both the history of philosophy and contemporary history.  His main argument doesn't seem to be with Voltaire, but rather with Hume.  Which is entirely unforgiveable as Hume addresses what seems to be Saul's main argument.  Yet Saul has no response for Hume.  Through out the volume Saul's apparent ignorance of philosophy is profound.<br />His analysis of history is equally bankrupt.  Most egregious is his section on McNamara.  First he claims that McNamara is responsible for the proliferation of nuclear arms.  Saul fails to mention that by the time McNamara was in office, the Soviet Union, China, Great Britain, France,  and Israel all had nuclear weapons.  India was only a few years away from similar developments, and the basis of their development was Canadian nuclear technology.  But McNamara gets the blame because he tried to minimize the possibility of total nuclear war and because he didn't want the US to be the world's policeman.  Another criticism of McNamara is that he &quot;corporatized&quot; the military making it unable to win wars.  Saul seems unaware that 1) Vietnam was a military victory but a political defeat, 2) that the bureaucratization of the military began long before McNamara -- during WW2 both Eisenhower and Marshall led the Allied forced to victory despite being managers rather than soldiers, 3) that the army's purpose isn't to get soldiers to die but rather to kill other armies' soldiers.  Saul makes the common mistake of civilians in assuming that the military is a purely pragmatic institution with a &quot;singularity of purpose&quot; that involves killing.  Even a cursory examination of the roles played by the military today would show how foolish this belief is.<br />Finally, Saul's biggest failing is that he offers no alternative.  Even IF you accept his argument that a &quot;rational&quot; system doesn't produce perfect answers it may very well be the case that it produces better outcomes than any other system.  Much like Churchill's contention that &quot;democracy is a horrible form of government, but it is better than any other we have tried.&quot;<br />I couldn't help but feel that this book only preaches to the choir.  If you already agree with Saul then save yourself the time and don't bother reading this.  If you don't agree with Saul then don't bother reading this because he's not especially interested in convincing people who aren't already in agreement.	2001-06-27
US	52949629	R1AIDI7XRW7U84	0471392286	61568632	Common Sense on Mutual Funds: New Imperatives for the Intelligent Investor	Books	3	133	142	N	N	good, biased, don't read just this	I didn't find the book nearly as repetitive as some other reviewers did.  Yes, Bogle continues to point out that cost matters and that you can't predict the winners in advance.  But he HAS to keep repeating his point.  If he didn't, opponents of indexing would (and do) say, &quot;But cost doesn't matter as much in emerging markets because they are less efficient.&quot;  So Bogle is forced to remake his point over and over and over again to show the superiority of indexing in every asset class.<br />Bogle has a few hidden gems in here that I haven't come across in my other reading.  For instance, he points out that owning S&amp;P 500 companies DOES give you international exposure since almost 25% of the those companies' revenues come from outside the United States.  He also makes some very good points about the effectiveness of slice-and-dice efficient frontier asset allocation methodologies and how they tend to reflect the past more than the future.<br />On the other hand, I feel that his dismissal of international investing shows an underlying bias that isn't well founded.  He points out that the EAFE failed to perform as well at the S&amp;P 500 over the past 10 years.  Yet that is a period he admits is extraordinarily favorable to US-based large-cap firms.  Later he does admit that when measured from its inception in the 1960s the EAFE has almost the same returns as the S&amp;P 500 but then dismisses the usefulness of this.  Even though it provided the same returns if it has a low correlation to the S&amp;P 500 it can be a good component in a portfolio.  It is almost like he doesn't understand the entire point of risk-adjusted returns.<br />Another complaint is that I don't think the book is very suitable as an introduction for novices.  It isn't that the material is difficult, I just don't feel it is structured very well.  For instance, he starts using standard deviation to mean risk.  It isn't until much later on that he mentions in passing the problems with using standard deviation as a proxy for risk.  If you are a little bit familiar with investing then you'll know all of this already, but I think a novice might be left floundering or possibly mislead.<br />I couldn't help shake the feeling that a lot of his arguments weren't especially sound.  Maybe it's because he doesn't present a lot of his data, but only his conclusions.  Or maybe it's because it feels too much like he's reasoning towards a conclusion he arrived at long before the data was available.  I feel that Berstein's Intelligent Asset Allocator offers a much more rigorous and sound (if slightly different) argument in favor of indexing than presented here.<br />Finally, I felt like the argument wasn't especially coherent.  I knew what point he was trying to make but at times I just felt like the editor hadn't done a proper job of cleaning up the text.  Swedroe's What Wall Street Doesn't Want You To Know has a much more coherent, straight forward structure while arguing in favor of indexing.<br />Despite all of that, I still think this book has a valuable place in the investor's education.  If you can borrow a copy from a friend, or check it out from the library, you owe it to yourself to do so.	2001-06-06
US	52949629	R30YZEGS6GBSSE	0684844931	296687529	Why Smart People Make Big Money Mistakes--and How to Correct Them: Lessons from the New Science of Behavioral Economics	Books	4	59	62	N	N	lightweight but overall pretty decent	I'm a little amazed at the reviews on this book.  It isn't nearly as good as most of the glowing five star reviews make it out to be.  It is a fluffy book of around 200 pages that I read in a single day.  It has maybe 10 main irrational behavior we exhibit when it comes to money.  Even though it was only 200 pages I couldn't help but feel that it could have been edited down substantially.<br />On other hand, I'm even more amazed at the negative reviews.  I'm not sure what the reviewers were expecting or whether they even read the same book I did.  The book doesn't attempt to explain everything.  In the introduction it clearly explains that this is an attempt at a popular airing of some of the main findings of behavioral economics.  Certainly there are some things you already knew, like our tendency to follow the herd or be paralyzed by indecision when faced with too many choices.  But there are also things you might not have known, like how easily we &quot;anchor&quot; on completely random numbers.<br />I wouldn't have paid $20 for a hardcover copy of this book; I checked it out from the library.  And I don't begrudge the time I spent reading it because I learned something.  And that's really all you're supposed to get from this little book.	2001-04-16
US	52949629	R1JE046Y88QVZX	0061092207	868684034	The Bartender's Bible: 1001 Mixed Drinks and Everything You Need to Know to Set Up Your Bar	Books	4	25	30	N	N	best bartending guide available	Pretty much I agree with Brian Tomkiel's review.  Complaints about looking things up confuse me, since there is an alphabetical index.  There are drinks missing.  But every single bartending guide I've looked at is missing one drink or another.  In practice, I've never had problems with this book.  Besides, most people who are asking for &quot;popular&quot; drinks like the Cosmopolitan and Hurricane know how they're made...it doesn't kill you to ask someone rather than looking in the book.<br />In the end, sure, maybe it's not perfect for bar use.  Then again, I don't see the negative reviews suggesting what IS perfect for professional bar use.  For home bar use, however, this book is the best of the many I have and have used.	2001-04-06
US	52949629	R194ZK2N7DDY4H	0156235501	548806220	The Cyberiad	Books	3	9	12	N	N	mixed bag	Overall I thought this book was very good and worth the purchase.  The problem is that not all of the stories and not all of the writing is of the same quality.  Like many collections of short stories there is very little overall coherence.  The last story, for instance, features neither Trurl nor Klapaucius, who are the stars of every other story.  The characterization of Trurl and Klapaucius doesn't seem very firm.  Sometimes Trurl doesn't come off as very bright.  Other times he seems exceptionally wise.  Sometimes Klapaucius seems bumbling, other times quite capable.<br />In my opinion, the book starts out well but finishes poorly.  The first few stories are very good, but after about the half way point in the book I began to get more and more bored.  The stories seemed to take on a slightly more &quot;moralizing&quot; tone (i.e. the story about the H.P.L.Ds).  I preferred the stories that were more &quot;adventure&quot; oriented rather fable-like.<br />The two best scenes, IMHO, were the poetry-writing machine and the creation of the hunting device.<br />In the end, the best stories rate 5 stars but the other stories and the overall aimless feel of the book bring down the final rating to 3 stars.	2001-02-09
US	52949629	R1NYPIWR4XXAVD	0441304834	453010069	Guilty Pleasures (Anita Blake Vampire Hunter)	Books	2	7	13	N	N	why so many high reviews?	I'm wondering why so many other people are giving this book so many stars.  Perhaps it is just a question of taste, I dunno.<br />The dialogue and prose is pretty bad.  The world is not very consistent.  The plot is incredibly  thin with an awful lot of plot devices.<br />Anita has nightmares of one  vampire who tried to kill her but another similar near death experience is  mentioned casually in passing.  The introduction of the vampire Valentine  was pointless, anyway.<br />There is no explanation that I could make sense of  for why people hate vampire killers.  There is also no explanation for why  a vampire can kill 23 people before a court order is given for its  extermination.  There is no explanation given for why killing vampires is  so hard given they are defenseless during the day and how easily Anita and  Edward dispatch several of the city's most powerful vampires.<br />There is  too much explanation.  Like we're really supposed to believe that Edward,  monster hunter extraordinaire, knows nothing whatsoever about  ghouls?<br />There is no explanation for why the other animator lures them to  the graveyard and wants to kill them.  There is no explanation for how he  managed to do it, either.  There is no explanation for why Edward met with  the church vampire.<br />The &quot;mystery&quot; is extraordinarily stupid and  essentially nonexistent.<br />Those are just the problems I can think of off  the top of my head.<br />The book isn't quite as bad as I may make it sound.   It was vaguely enjoyable, which is why it gets two rather than one star  from me.  But I don't understand how anyone could give it more than three  stars.	2000-07-31
US	52949629	R2VGWQU0TD3QXT	0061050555	314747025	Fortress of Dragons	Books	3	4	4	N	N	disappointing conclusion	I didn't realize this was the final book of the series until after I had finished it and was reading the cover jacket.  What a disappointing conclusion.  Leaving some questions in the readers' minds is one thing but  answering virtually nothing is another thing entirely.<br />I also agree with  another reviewer that most of the &quot;plot&quot; in this book was  contrived.  The reasons that Cefwyn continually gives for not dealing with  known traitors to his kingdom wear thing awfully quick.  But without that  indecisiveness the book would be awfully short.	2000-07-30
US	52949629	R26F3PEHKJZEUL	0201548550	667504788	Advanced C++ Programming Styles and Idioms	Books	3	27	44	N	N	What's so Advanced?	In the first 150 pages of the book two whole idioms are introduced (and on page 148 a second variant on one of the idioms is introduced).  Neither idiom is particularly advanced and if you haven't seen and used them before I kinda have to wonder why you're reading a book with the word  &quot;advanced&quot; in the title.<br />I disagree with the other reviewers  that this book is only for intermediate or advanced readers.  The first  100+ pages is an extraordinarily boring rehash of basic C++ features.  It  is obviously targeted at a C++ neophyte.  And that's who I think would best  be served by this book: someone who is a good programmer, who knows other  programming languages, but doesn't know C++.  I don't think it moves too  fast for a beginner, provided the beginner has a modicum of intelligence  and motivation.<br />As another reviewer pointed out, the book is showing its  age and that certainly hurts its usefulness in many respects.<br />All in all  I'd say that if you are a decent C++ programmer with some experience you  probably won't find much of value in this book.  Even if you do get past  the first few hundred pages of boring rehashed material you've read in a  dozen other places.  If you are new to C++ then you'll probably learn some  stuff you didn't know before.<br />For a book billing itself as being  &quot;Advanced&quot;, I was let down.  In the end I couldn't justify the  money or the time invested in reading this book.	2000-06-09
US	52949629	R3RXTEHA4IBDUQ	0844239836	617276049	Teach Yourself Swedish Complete Course	Books	1	10	11	N	Y	unfortunately not worth it	After deciding I wanted to learn Swedish and not having thepatience to wait until a new semester started at one of the localuniversity extension programs, I decided to try this book, since it seemed to be one of the more highly recommended ones on Amazon.com. Perhaps if you have more perseverance or a higher pain threshhold than I do, it might be worthwhile for you.  I've always thought of myself as a pretty good student of language: I never had much trouble learning Spanish, French, of Japanese.  But this book makes things hard.<br />It starts with a quick overview of Swedish pronunciation but then throws the reader in head first.  And considering that the tape only covers a portion of the written text, I found myself forced to guess how words were pronounced.  I mean, is &quot;lakare&quot; (doctor) pronounced as &quot;luh-kah-ray&quot; or &quot;la-care&quot;. Maybe it's obvious to someone who knows Swedish but as a complete beginner I had no idea.<br />It was also tedious reading because I had to continually flip back to the pronunciation guide to figure out how to pronounce things.  It would have been nice if a phonetic spellings (along with accent and tone indications) had been included, at least in the early chapters.<br />The short quizzes are often inscrutable.  One of the first true or false questions uses vocabulary and grammar that haven't even been introduced yet, forcing the reader to guess what the answer is.  A short time later the reader is shown a picture of a smiling man in a kilt and asked what his profession is.  Apparently the smile is supposed to hint to you that he is in a dentist.<br />I don't think it is impossible to learn languages from books, although it is certainly harder than with a live instructor.  There are good language books out there.  Unfortunately, I don't think this is one of them.  Also unfortunately, there don't seem to be a lot of alternatives for learning Swedish.	2000-05-18
US	52949629	R1BJALCZ5TRV6U	0375407472	604456040	The Whole Woman	Books	2	20	31	N	Y	unfortunately bad	Greer starts off by saying this is the book she would never write because she believed that each generation had to come up with its own list of priorities and statements.  She apparently changed her mind for no other  reason than she didn't like the list of priorities and statements this  generation came up with.<br />The book is marred by inaccuracies.  I haven't  taken the time to verify all of her claims -- her strange use of references  makes verifying her claims far more difficult than it needs to be -- but  just a cursory reading shows a large number of claims that are just plain  wrong.  For instance, she claims that menstruation is uniquely human when  in fact other primates do it as well.  Speaking of breast implants she says  that 'the suspicion is that silicone migrating from implants stimulates the  immune system, causing human adjuvant disease'.  Yet in Science on Trial,  Marcia Angell (executive editor at the New England Journal of Medicine)  shows that there is no link between breast implants and disease and only  quacks advocate the position Greer implies is common belief.  She claims  that most women dye, bleach, or perm their hair -- a claim hard to swallow  on the surface of it -- and provides not a single reference for it.  She  claims that modern war kills more women than men -- another claim hard to  take a face value, yet she provides no references for it.  She claims that  computer use is another example of male hegemony by saying that 80% of  Internet users are male.  Her book is dated and women have already become  more prevalent on the Internet than men.  In short, even a cursory  examination of the book leaves the reader with the inescapable conclusion  that Greer has absolutely zero credibility when it comes to the real  world.<br />To be sure Greer raises some interesting points and questions  (although her writing is so muddled the reader is often left wondering what  was the point of a given chapter, you can't help but wish a Professor of  English could construct a more coherent argument) but why read a book where  you can't believe a word the author has written because she has proven her  ineptitude over and over again?  I have no doubt that there is plenty of  well written and factually accurate feminist literature out there.  This  book simply isn't among their numbers.	1999-11-22
US	52949629	R3JDI68URMF5HT	0285627007	464772596	The Descent of Woman: The Classic Study of Evolution	Books	4	35	40	N	Y	has some problems	I really haven't paid any attention to evolutionary debates and whether the Aquatic Ape Theory is accepted or debunked or whether something else has risen to takes its place.  However, I am left with the impression that  the author has constructed a straw man to argue against and some of her  claims and lines of argument are bothersome.  She makes several claims that  I am pretty sure are false: that only humans aggress against other humans,  that only humans rape, that only humans have homosexuality and that this is  because of the &quot;lack of aim&quot; engendered by the movement of the  vagina.  In her discussion of orgasm she is curiously silent on how other  aquatic mammals deal with this movement of the vagina -- despite using them  to bolster her argument in almost every other area.  She makes the point  that male primates don't initiate sex unless the female gives off certain  signals but then later on claims that it was only male's continued rape in  the absence of these signals that kept the human race going.  She seems to  want to have it both ways.  Also her arguments about the rise of  face-to-face sex don't address the fact that humans are still capable of  performing in a variety of other positions when they feel like it with no  apparent affect on rates of procreation.<br />In short, I think the first few  chapters of her book are interesting and intriguing.  Once she hits the  chapters of orgasm and love I began to feel less convinced by her  arguments.  On the whole it was not an entirely convincing book because of  the straw man feel she gives to her opponents but she certainly advances an  interesting idea.	1999-11-14
US	52949629	RRLXNSXE9BOLP	0306456214	717981335	After Contact	Books	3	7	9	N	Y	I didn't like it.	The entire first third of the book was IMHO a waste of paper.  The author attempts to describe the rationale and basis for SETI but it is done so superficially that it essentially boils down to &quot;some people with  Ph.Ds think it would be a good idea&quot;.<br />There is an entire chapter  devoted to discrediting UFOs which seemed strangely out of place.  I  suppose the author is afraid of being lumped in with that crowd and wanted  to make sure that didn't happen.<br />The rest of the book is better, although  I still can't help but feel that the entire book boils down to:<br />If aliens  aren't much like us then we can't predict what they are going to be like,  thus I will assume that they are at least something like us.  Except maybe  they'll have four arms instead of two -- but they'll still be capitalist  democracies.<br />His rationale for why they should be democratic was totally  unconvincing.  Explanations for why they should bother to look for us or  share any information with us are essentially nonexistent (he more or less  defines the problem away, &quot;we will call 'intelligent life' anything  which is looking for other life in the universe&quot;).<br />I gave this 3  stars but it really deserves only 2 1/2 ... I was feeling generous  today.<br />[BTW, I AM pro-SETI in general, I just thought this book was  overall a weak piece of work.]	1999-04-05
US	52949629	R3MFTNVCH4ZYOW	0201550865	62580298	Conceptual Blockbusting: A Guide To Better Ideas, Third Edition	Books	2	18	26	N	Y	Lackluster	There really isn't very much to this book.  The majority of its bulk is  taken up describing various blocks people have which inhibit creativity --  cultural, societal, emotional, and so on.  The author never describes how  one can work past these blocks.  Later on he points out that people have  five senses and we should try to use all five of them when solving  problems.  All in all hardly groundbreaking stuff.  In the end his message  seems to be: you have to exercise your imagination if you want to be more  creative but he doesn't include enough exercises to do that with this book.  I would suggest you look elsewhere if you are seriously interested in  being more creative.	1998-10-02
US	52949629	R2KTP8TKQ8RXS8	039330891X	664245668	How Much Is Enough?: The Consumer Society and the Future of the Earth (The Worldwatch Environmental Alert Series)	Books	3	26	36	N	Y	Good but something was missing	I read the book.  I agreed with all the points.  I was properly impressed  with his statistics and anecdotes.  But overall I felt something was  missing, although I can't put my finger on it.  After reading this book,  rather than feeling charged up to go and do something about it I felt  rather ho-hum instead.  I don't think the book is polemical enough.  It  doesn't offer clear cut guides on what needs to change.  The threat is  always vague, &quot;We can't keep this up or someday we'll run out.&quot;   His discussion of the necessity of growth left me unconvinced, even though  I desperately wanted to be convinced.  The book is an interesting read, but  it was just lacking something that kept it from being amazing.	1998-09-10
US	52949629	R17VPU8AE6CQEF	0844740462	708363490	The Antitrust Laws: A Primer	Books	2	4	8	N	Y	Ho hum	This book was basically mildly mediocre.  Maybe it's because I already  know something about the antitrust laws, but I didn't feel that this book  actually told me anything new.  I feel that perhaps in their effort to make  the antitrust laws &quot;readable&quot; by a layman they have made the  material useless.  You could probably find just as useful an introduction  to antitrust laws online someplace for free.	1998-09-09
US	52949629	R1L16OHVES1QDO	0691003912	624492084	Antitrust Economics on Trial : Dialogue in New Learning	Books	4	1	2	N	Y	Interesting, open-ended	This is the same topic the authors have tackled in  their other books,  this time presented in a somewhat screenplay-ish format.  Once again it is  an argument between theory and evidence.  As you read the discussion  between the lawyer and the economist you wonder why the economist always  retreats to theory in the face of evidence.  It would interesting to hear a  Chicago economist's explanation of the facts Adams and Brock bring to bear.	1998-09-09
US	52949629	ROGXX1D2P08FX	0932633226	70651884	1: Quality Software Management: Systems Thinking	Books	3	4	24	N	N	Mediocre	While I generally like Weinberg's more humanistic take on managing software, sometimes I feel like his lack of rigor is a detriment.  His strategies and ideas are all well and I good, I agree with them completely, but his models are often too vague and he usually doesn't provide the beleaguered manager with much to go on besides platitudes.  Overall I would say there isn't much (if any) new information in this book.  Of course, I guess that depends on what other books you have read prior to this :-)	1998-08-06
US	52949629	RERQ8P9RAP8X2	0394547217	982125851	The Bigness Complex	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Difficult to argue with	This book is very engaging and thought provoking.  I'm sure the apologists for bigness dislike this book a great deal.  Unlike most business and economics texts this book is chock full of references.  The apologists for bigness have nice sounding philosophies but they rarely have any real world data to back up their grand ideas.  The authors of this book have the facts to back up their argument that bigness, in and of itself, is bad.  A very persuasive argument that will be difficult to counter in a rational manner.	1998-08-06
US	52949629	RHNUK8CV9ZW0I	0394547217	982125851	The Bigness Complex	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Analysis based on facts that are difficult to dispute	This was an excellent and thought provoking book.  They challenge the assumption that big is better by showing fact after fact after fact that proves otherwise.  The best part of the book is that, unlike most management, business, and economic texts, it isn't just theoretical philosophizing with no basis in reality.  Every chapter is laden with dozens of references to real world events and published facts.  If only the Bigness apologists had so much evidence it would be easier to take them seriously....	1998-08-01
US	52949629	R3NC6E6OLMPWDH	0887306136	145410425	Practice of Management, The	Books	4	2	26	N	Y	Original but seriously flawed	This book was published in 1954 and given its age it is still remarkably readable.  It is chock full of good advice and thought provoking ideas.  One of the blurbs on the back of the book describes Drucker as a &quot;business and management philosopher.&quot;  He certainly is that.  This book is so completely devoid of anything approaching a scientific approach as to be sickening.  He frequently says stuff like, &quot;most companies&quot; or &quot;probably something like 60 to 70 percent&quot;.  Seeing as how his figures are completely unsubstantiated they do more harm than good.  The book shouldn't be treated as anything more than an extended opinion.  As near as I could tell there wasn't a single substantiated fact in the entire book.  Kinda scary that this is the best that the &quot;dean of business and management&quot; can produce.  I would have hoped that industry was based on something a little more substantial than gut feelings, rumors, hunches, and hearsay.	1998-07-22
US	52949629	R2D1AWHMHFJQHB	0875844480	815766971	The Loyalty Effect: The Hidden Force Behind Growth, Profits, and Lasting Value	Books	4	2	2	N	Y	One of those rare business books that presents facts	I must admit, I haven't read any other &quot;leading loyalty&quot; books so I don't know what I'm missing.  However, I thought this book was excellent.  Most business books are full of ideas and rhetoric and pulpit pumping sermons...all without any evidencial backing.  This book provides facts to support it's claims.  It also provides tools to help your own business.  It does more than just say &quot;loyalty is important and you should try harder.&quot;	1998-07-10
US	52949629	R27B4QUTTPA5XQ	0440503248	145624771	Leadership Is an Art	Books	3	0	2	N	Y	Good not earthshaking	While this book was good it was not earthshatteringly excellent.  It some food for though, but nothing really new...mostly affirmations of what I already thought/felt/believed.  A very quick read...I prefer things with more meat.	1998-07-10
US	52949629	R3LV5IXVLL8PH3	0440170370	900157828	Player Piano	Books	2	0	6	N	Y	Not impressed	This is the first and only Vonnegut book I have read.  I was unimpressed.  The dialogue was mediocre.  The characters were mediocre.  The plotting was mediocre.  Character development was poorly executed.  Plus he's a horrible futurist.  His &quot;future&quot; has held up worse under time than virtually any other SF book I can think of.  It's completely unbelievable.	1998-07-10
US	52949629	RA39LQALZ26LN	093263334X	683591752	Why Does Software Cost So Much?: And Other Puzzles of the Information Age	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Some great some not	Some of the essays are great.  Some don't even seem pertinent.  For example, there is a discussion about A/V equipment that, while humorous, felt out of place.  On the whole, there was a lot of thought provoking material, however.	1998-06-26
US	52949629	R2E7683NUKAJDO	0201192462	82682120	Principles Of Software Engineering Management	Books	4	4	5	N	Y	Good but limited	Gilb covers only a small portion of &quot;Software Engineering Management&quot; in detail.  Other important issues are either not addressed at all or receive only cursory treatment.  Still, what it does go into depth about it usually well thought out and makes imminent sense.  I'd say it's worth reading, but it may be a bit expensive for it's narrowness.	1998-06-26
US	52949629	R1OGOMEEGXGGJP	0132398567	258315038	How to Run Successful Projects (2nd Edition)	Books	4	6	6	N	Y	Guidelines with no rationale	The author provides a Ten Step process that certainly sounds workable.  I have no doubt that it DOES work.  It would have been nice to see more rationale and discussion of why this particular method is &quot;necessary and sufficient&quot; to run a project.  He never really talks about why this method is sufficient.  Proof by repeated claim doesn't count.  It was still pretty good despite that flaw.	1998-06-26
US	52949629	R2CH58NYX3O04B	0345392825	731711467	Reviving Ophelia: Saving the Selves of Adolescent Girls (Ballantine Reader's Circle)	Books	3	0	1	N	N	Interesting but flawed	The book's flaw is that the author tries to convince the reader of generalities by offering unconnected anecdotes.  What's more, her position as a psychotherapist taints her perspective.  It is somewhat analogous to a fireman claiming that all cats are stuck in trees.  Despite the flaws in methodology it does offer some interesting and thought provoking points.	1998-06-16
US	52949629	R3HIHLAGXJMV6P	0787900478	840856553	Workplace by Design: Mapping the High-Performance Workscape	Books	4	14	16	N	N	Thought Provoking	Overall a very good book.  The authors try to show the incredible importance of workplace design and offer many examples of well designed workplaces.  They are a little weak on empirical backing for some of their claims but all of what they say has at least an intuitive appeal.	1998-06-03
US	52949629	RIOWQDEBLDR6K	0780334000	76357458	Real-Time Systems Design and Analysis: An Engineer's Handbook	Books	1	7	8	N	N	I feel like I have wasted my time.	This book has been a waste of my time.  Its only saving grace has been that I read it quickly.  It presents a totally superficial and biased overview of some concepts that touch on real-time systems.  This was the first real-time'ish book I ever picked up and I _still_ didn't learn anything from it.  It is full of filler sentences like &quot;If the task-control block model is used, then a list of task-control blocks is kept.&quot;  If you are looking for a primer or introduction to real-time then keep looking -- I sure am....	1998-02-19
