US	52945088	R32PJH6VKE5208	0060524308	400007646	Bound for Canaan: The Underground Railroad and the War for the Soul of America	Books	5	4	4	N	N	This book is an extraordinary achievement!	Prior to reading this book, my knowledge of the Underground Railroad came mainly from a few slave narratives, snippets of it  mentioned in history books, and from a few biographies that captured the essences of those who gave their lives for the cause. Never have I read a book that was so richly researched on the Underground Railroad the way Fergus M. Bordewich has done in BOUND FOR CANAAN. Without a doubt, this book puts in perspective how the Underground, a racially integrated network shrouded in secrecy, sets the stage for America's first civil rights movement towards social change. This book is an extraordinary achievement and brings enlightenment to a little known topic in American History.	2005-05-02
US	52945088	R21Z8OMCJ0VI4C	0060575840	10629762	The Executioner's Game	Books	4	4	4	N	N	This spy-thriller won't disappoint!	Gary Hardwick fans won't be disappointed with his latest, The Executioner's Game. Using select rules from his main character's E-1 Operations Missions Manual, Hardwick sets a riveting stage for readers to be fully immersed into a well written spy-thriller that not only entertains, but stimulates thoughts about race and crime of the inner city and how the two are perceived by law enforcement. This novel clearly establishes Hardwick as a daring storyteller with the kind of verve and energy that will keep old fans wanting more and new fans looking for other works he has written. A great read to kick off the New Year (due to be released on or before January 1, 2005)!	2004-12-05
US	52945088	R3AI61UHE72LNV	0060736038	210161083	The Second Life of Samuel Tyne	Books	5	0	1	N	N	This debut raises the bar of American Fiction a bit higher!	I applaud Esi Edugyan for raising the high bar of American Fiction just a bit higher with this debut. This novel about an eccentric family legacy pitted against an arduous culture makes for an astonishing read. Even though the author uses a narrative that often tells more than it shows, she clearly makes up for this with an intuitive character dialogue that makes the second chance at life for Samuel Tyne ominous!	2004-12-05
US	52945088	R2B5UY7O9RX2BF	0972293256	722316557	EYEWITNESS	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Its Him! -- Or is it?	Even though the eyewitness of a crime may be considered by some as the \\"king of the trial process,\\" a number of studies have shown that people are not always accurate in identifying people that they see for a few seconds. Therefore it is the reliability of eyewitnesses along with their personal prejudices that Ms. Beamon focuses on in her second novel, EYEWITNESS.<br />Someone is setting fire to predominantly black churches in small southern towns and the sixth fire just destroyed the newly built Beulah Baptist Church. What makes this burning so significant, is that this is the second time this church has been destroyed and a respected white man of the community is found dead at the scene. This case has lawmakers very concerned and wondering when the person responsible for these fires, and now murder, will strike again. The only accurate identification that two eyewitnesses give of the man seen leaving the burning church is that he is wearing a jogging suit. One eyewitness says he was black and the other eyewitness says that he was white.<br />So which of the descriptions do the police follow-up on? The black man of course! It will be the questioning and beating of a young local black man by state marshals that will have readers fully immersed in this novel to the very end as the truth of who is committing these crimes is revealed. The crisp dialogue and the surprising actions of some of the characters add greatly to the overall premise and pace of this story. M. C. Beamon is indeed an apt storyteller whose talent as a writer grows with each novel!	2003-10-07
US	52945088	R2O0MRIL6PHXFT	0971227829	979078786	Mary's Little Lamb (A Mick Hart Mystery)	Books	3	2	2	N	N	Lawrence Christopher is an apt storyteller!	The infamous Mary Jane Jenkins murder case that caught the attention of avid readers in the debut novella, All About Mary, continues, with her 14 year old daughter, Sapphire, being the catalyst that sets everything in motion in Christopher's latest, Mary's Little Lamb.<br />This novella opens with the good citizens of Odelot, Ohio hearing some very disturbing news on the radio: the Mayor's teenage daughter, Brook Lincoln, is missing and a woman is killed during an attempted car jacking. Not long after hearing this broadcast, Private Investigator Mick Hart, receives a call and is hired to look into the disappearance of another teen, the infamous Miss Sapphire Jenkins. What begins as two unrelated missing person cases actually turns out to be more related than anyone imagined. While Odelot's entire police force and FBI are working around the clock on the Brook Lincoln case, Mick Hart, a lone PI, is not only getting close to finding out what happened to his client, Sapphire, but he's also getting close to locating Brook and the folks responsible for both girls' abductions. So, will Mick Hart be able to save both of them in time? You'll just have to read this one to find out!<br />Mary's Little Lamb is a short, fast paced read that is filled with credible characters and a crisp realistic dialogue that will appeal to young adult readers. I admire the author's use of popular headlines news, entertainment media stories and the Internet to make this a relevant  story of our time. But, when it comes to being a well crafted mystery novel, this one lacks all the fascinating clues and intricate plot framework which satisfies true mystery buffs' passion for detection. Still, the overall premise of the story is good and shows that Christopher is an apt storyteller!	2003-05-31
US	52945088	R48SVG4EXNWYF	0759648387	388748950	The Key Party	Books	3	12	12	N	N	How harmful can one night of passion among good friends be?	How harmful can one night of passion among good friends be? That's a question six of Nikki and her husband's closest friends (Lynda & Rick; Renee & Jason; Kay & Kevin) will have to answer for themselves when they all agree to participate in Nikki's Key Party.<br />So what exactly is a Key Party? Well, it begins with each person arriving at the party location, such as a hotel, in their own car. Upon entering the reserved hotel room, all of the ladies are required to place a house key tagged with their name and address in a bowl. After a few hours of serious partying which involves a little dirty dancing and sensual games, all of the ladies leave for home. Thirty minutes later, each man randomly grabs a key out of the bowl and goes to the address on his key. What happens when the man arrives is entirely left up to that couple. The only stipulation is that NO ONE may \\"kiss and tell\\" what happened or tell who they spent that evening with. The climax of this story doesn't necessarily occur during the actual night of this party. Now don't get me wrong, that night is filled with some erotic pleasures and surprises for some, as well as frustration and shock for others. I believe the real climax comes after that night with each person evaluating what happened and knowing that their lives and relationships with one another are changed forever.<br />This debut novel by Siddeeqah Perryman and Lisa Nicole Hankerson centered on the nightlife milieu of \\"swingers,\\" is representative of the kind of sexual adventures many couples are experiencing and practicing today. Just when I thought I knew what was going to happen in some of the lives of the characters by the end, the authors threw in some last minute twists that not only took this story in a whole different direction, but left me with the notion that there must be a sequel on the horizon. I look forward to these authors completing the stories of these diverse characters which obviously will never be the same because of their one night of passion among friends.one night of passion among friends.	2002-06-10
US	52945088	R1ICWUCLDFETB0	0345445961	706409890	Bittersweet	Books	4	3	3	N	Y	A Welcome New Voice to Contemporary AA Literature!	BITTERSWEET is an entertaining read about the choices that shape the lives and relationships of three African American brothers. Nathan, the oldest, is a married minister, who finds practicing what he preaches a struggle when he's tempted by the affections of a beautiful parishioner. Victor, the middle child, is cynical about life and women in general. His cynicism is simply a mask he wears to protect his manhood while on the streets and his heart when dealing with the fairer sex. The youngest, Clifford, is simply an over-achiever. He soon finds the American dream of having a great home with a wife, two kids, and a dog, is not what it's made out to be when the wife he adores claims she doesn't love him and wants a divorce.<br />This story told by each brother in alternating chapters is unique and well developed. Johnson's writing is so crisp and fresh that this 372 page novel will go by in a flash. I believe what I enjoyed most about this story is that it depicted black men in times of trouble committed to the women in their lives and to keeping their families together at all cost. Author Freddie Lee Johnson, III tells this story with the kind of humor and thoughtfulness that makes him a welcome new voice to the genre of contemporary African American literature!	2002-05-29
US	52945088	R1YOO49MCIW7RE	097123700X	286622197	You Are Not Alone: a Story of Love, Lust and Addiction (Revised)	Books	3	2	3	N	N	A "girlfriend-relationship" read!	This latest \\"girlfriend-relationship\\" novel by Angel Hunter, the founder of The Essence of Self Center, focuses on four women who must find self-pride, love, and empowerment to deal with the controversial problems that arise in their lives.<br />The entire cast of players in this novel, though different in temperament and personalities, are linked together by their partnership and work in the same law office. Crystal Gem is an attorney and rape victim. Her involvement with counseling a young rape victim causes painful memories of her own rape to resurface, and leaves her with the realization that until she finds a way to face her rapist, her problems with intimacy and love relationships will continue. Susan Gold is an attorney and high school friend to Crystal. When the love of her life proposes marriage on the condition that she gets help with her cocaine addition, she feels desperate, and letting go of the cocaine is not as easy as she had thought. Elsie Carlson, the third partner in this law firm, is aloof and distant with everyone simply because she does not want them to know that she is in love with a woman. It isn't until she decides to \\"come out of the closet\\" about her relationship that she is faced with what this alternative lifestyle really means and brings to her life. Jewell, the paralegal for the firm is a \\"street-smart\\" young woman who is successfully balancing work, motherhood, and school at the same time. Even though her son's father has always been the love of her life, she is apprehensive and uncertain about her feelings for Evan, a white man she has been dating and secretly engaged to.<br />The black and white cover of this book is very attractive and definitely the hook that will compel readers to buy it. The simple language and uncomplicated plot makes this book an easy read. I will say that I was expecting the resolutions of each woman's sitaution by the end of the novel to be more compelling with regards to the seriousness of their problems. As I think back to Susan's addiction to cocaine, I am surprised that her painful road to recovery was not explored more. I also felt that Elsie's turmoil with being bisexual was not given enough attention. Still, I commend Ms. Hunter for telling her story and wish her success with her next writing project.As I think back to Susan's addiction to cocaine, I am surprised that her painful road to recovery was not explored more. I also felt that Elsie's turmoil with being bisexual was not given enough attention. Still, I commend Ms. Hunter for telling her story and wish her success with her next writing project.	2002-02-20
US	52945088	RZKR6LZ9HLMHZ	0595001777	200238815	Dark Recesses	Books	3	3	5	N	N	Suspenseful Debut Novel!	\\"O, what a tangled web we weave, when first we practice to deceive!\\"<br />Sir Walter Scott's famous quote above emphatically describes what has been going on for years in the lives of some of the characters in M. C. Beamon's new mystery, DARK RECESSES. When main character, David Jackson, receives an invitation to a Family Reunion in Suffolk, Virginia from a group of folks claiming their genealogy research led them to him, he simply believes they've made a mistake and dismisses it. He dismisses this invitation at first for two reasons: he already knows all the members of his family, and his father's entire family moved north a long time ago. So who were these people in the South claiming to be relatives? Giving this invitation more thought while gazing at an old photo of family members who look neither dark nor white, he wonders if the family in the south can tell him how they came to look the way that they did. Most importantly, he hopes that they can explain why their families are not close. Now that he and his wife, Lisa, are expecting their first child, he feels it would be wonderful if they did have close ties to a large supportive family in the south.<br />As fate would have it, David and Lisa relocate to Suffolk so that he may work as a law clerk for an Appeals Court Judge in the area. They also decide to attend the family reunion in hopes of getting to know their Southern relatives. David's reaction to seeing them is a combination of confusion and shock. Not only does he find some of them living in poverty, but they have shaggy hair, ebony-skin and brown eyes. They look nothing like him or any of the northern relatives who have fair skin, `good hair' and hazel to light brown eyes. His confusion grows more when he discovers that his father did not grow up as an only child, but in fact had an older brother who was married with children. David literally doesn't know what to think when he learns that his father lived in Suffolk most of his life until he decided to distance himself from the problems  associated with his older brother's death and the demise of his family. It will be David's unrelenting search for answers about what went on in the lives of his father and uncle that reveal a difficult family history of forbidden love, secrets, lies and murder.<br />The intense twists, turns and overall dynamics of this story are great. Even though the explanation as to how one particular member of David's family was responsible for dividing them along its color lines was not very convincing, the light and dark skin issues of the past seem to be what black families and their communities are still dealing with today. I was also a little disappointed in the ending. After watching the main character relentlessly search for the truth about what really happened to his family, I was surprised to see him sort of throw in the towel and return back to the north without so much as a backward glance. I was hoping that he and his wife would be the ones to bridge the wide gulf that has obviously divided his family for so many years.  Overall, Ms. Beamon has written a very interesting and suspenseful story!to distance himself from the problems  associated with his older brother's death and the demise of his family. It will be David's unrelenting search for answers about what went on in the lives of his father and uncle that reveal a difficult family history of forbidden love, secrets, lies and murder.<br />The intense twists, turns and overall dynamics of this story are great. Even though the explanation as to how one particular member of David's family was responsible for dividing them along its color lines was not very convincing, the light and dark skin issues of the past seem to be what black families and their communities are still dealing with today. I was also a little disappointed in the ending. After watching the main character relentlessly search for the truth about what really happened to his family, I was surprised to see him sort of throw in the towel and return back to the north without so much as a backward glance. I was hoping that he and his wife would be the ones to bridge the wide gulf that has obviously divided his family for so many years.  Overall, Ms. Beamon has written a very interesting and suspenseful story!	2002-01-09
US	52945088	R1N0R2YDU896O9	0595187447	112983019	Saturday's Child	Books	4	10	10	N	N	An unforgettable main character!	Remember this poem . . .<br /> Monday's child is fair to face<br /> Tuesday's child is full of grace<br /> Wednesday's child is full of woe<br /> Thursday's child has far to go<br /> Friday's child is loving and giving<br /> Saturday's child has to work for its living<br /> But the child that's born on the Sabbath day<br /> Is loving and wise, happy and gay.<br />Well main character, Sara Livingston, really dislikes this poem because, she, unfortunately was born on a Saturday. Therefore, when she suggest that whomever wrote it needed to &quot;be shot . . . drawn and quartered then revived and beat down like they stole something,&quot; I knew that this diva was a character I would never forget!<br />Sara is a sassy, sexy, struggling &quot;to-make-ends-meet&quot; mom who truly feels that this little poem above in some way has cursed her life. All of her problems began during her senior year of high school. Getting pregnant not only blew her chances of accepting a full scholarship to Ohio State, but her &quot;baby's daddy&quot; decided to pull a disappearing act and leave for another girl. After that humiliation, it seemed that every relationship she had with men spiraled downward. Even though she's legally married to a man she detests and has not seen for 3 years (she is simply too poor to afford a divorce), Sara resigns herself to the idea that a successful career and a happy marriage to a Mr. Wonderful is just not in the cards. That is until her best friend and co-worker, Brenda Starr Bodell, helps change all that by introducing her first to the all-so-fine Franklin Santiago and then to her gorgeous green-eyed Uncle Theodosius (Theo) Watkins. The moment Sara encounters these men, her life changes forever and her journey to joy, fear, passion, pain, tragedy, and true love awaits her.<br />New author, Gayle Sloan, writes this story with an engaging blend of attitude, humor, intrigue, and passion. The moment I opened this book, my &quot;suspension of disbelief&quot; kicked in and I found myself immersed in the experiences of this Saturday's Child. I thoroughly enjoyed this book and I look forward to other works by this author.found myself immersed in the experiences of this Saturday's Child. I thoroughly enjoyed this book and I look forward to other works by this author.	2001-11-29
US	52945088	R1RVJAO6QRNUW9	0967944600	68312260	Motion Sickness	Books	3	1	1	N	N	A new poet on the rise!	&quot;As we take this life long trip<br />The motions at times can make us sick<br />Love and Hate<br />And the thin line that may break<br />Can sometimes make us lose our faith&quot;<br />The passage above comes from the opening of Terry O'Neal's new book titled, MOTION SICKNESS. Not only does it give meaning to what this collection of poems entails, but it sums up what happens to us emotionally when the complexities of life overwhelms us and cause us to lose our sense of direction and hope. Throughout this book, Ms. O'Neal takes us through the ups and downs associated with motion sickness with verses that deal with the misunderstanding men and women have about their roles in relationships, to what it really means to be and look black in America. The question why do bad things always happen to good people is what readers will recognize immediately about the private ponderings of the persona in the poem, &quot;A Disguise.&quot; A sense of pride is felt for the stepmother in, &quot;Bond With Me,&quot; as she vows to be the best parent she can be to her stepchild. While sympathy is given for the stepmother who feels threatened and  helpless by the presence of an ever-controlling maternal mother in the poem, &quot;No Win.&quot; But in spite of all the chaos and problems we encounter in life, Ms. O'Neal also reminds us that there are some traditions and expectations we have in our lives such as momma's good down-home cookin' outlined in the poem, &quot;Back Home&quot; that brings comfort and joy which sustains us.<br />Overall, Ms. O'Neal presents a collection of poems, which addresses life's trials and tribulations in hopes that it brings enlightenment and more understanding to human life. MOTION SICKNESS is a smooth easy read. Still, knowing that motion sickness can be a jolting experience for most, I was expecting this collection to match its title and be more compelling in terms of form, rhythm and timbre. I simply feel the title of this book carries more impact than the poems themselves.oems themselves.	2001-11-29
US	52945088	R8AOZ4H9QUEOP	096688650X	862122527	Momma's Purle	Books	3	2	2	N	N	Real Survivors!	MOMMA'S PURLE, Bridget Davis's debut novel, is a realistic account of how one family struggles to stay together in spite of the social and economic odds that are stacked against them living in the poor sections of Harlem.<br />Sarah James, the matriarch of the family literally has no one to turn to for emotional and financial support when her husband leaves her and their 5 young daughters for another woman. Feeling desperate and overwhelmed by her situation, she attempts suicide only to discover that not only was she unlucky in life, but she was also unlucky at having death claim her. It will be this failed attempt to take her life that gives her a chance to reevaluate everything and remember she has 5 wonderful reasons for staying alive - Marcey, Purle, Madison, Olivia, and Kim! Sarah finally realizes that if she had succeeded in killing herself, who would be there to take care of her daughters? Who would teach them the morals and values needed to rise above the impoverished environment that they lived in? The struggle to raise her daughters to be productive and successful young women free from the clutches of Heroin, the popular drug of the 1970's, becomes the main focus of this novel. As each daughter grows up and learns to survive and move beyond the environment they grew up in, Purle, the second oldest, seems to be the one that's trapped and cannot find her way out. Just when it seems that history would repeat itself with Purle attempting suicide, an unexpected person steps in and helps her find her way back to life and being a true survivor in every sense of the word.<br />The overall premise of this story is very good and Ms. Davis is indeed a talented writer. My problem with this book is that it simply tries to cover too much ground in only 130 pages! As a result, there was not enough character development going on to help the reader fully understand the reasons behind some of the choices and decisions that the main characters made in their lives.	2001-09-08
US	52945088	R2JYPS25BF300N	1562615440	893263040	DEL-Steppin' Out: An African-American Guide to Our 20 Favorite Cities	Books	5	5	5	N	Y	Don't leave home without it!	The next time you're needing to travel out of town for business or pleasure, be sure to pack, STEPPIN' OUT by Carla Labat, in your bag! This impressive entertainment guide, written with the African American travel warrior in mind, is filled with information on the best places to go and what to do once you get there for 20 popular US cities!<br />For each city listed, there is detailed information on restaurants (formal and informal dining), nightclubs, museums, historical landmarks, churches, festivals and other recreational points of interest. Not only are the addresses and telephone numbers of various establishments given, but also prices, menu selections, performers, galleries, exhibits and other details of business operations are provided as well. Most of the restaurants and nightclubs listed are African-American owned and are marked with an &quot;AA&quot; symbol. Those establishments that come highly recommended by the author have been given a star (*) symbol rating. Detailed descriptions and dates for festivals and special city events are informative and give visitors historical knowledge and insight into the city's black community.<br />What I like most about this guide is the in-depth information the  author gives about &quot;the soul of each city - what makes it tick, its  allure.&quot;  Her first-hand knowledge about everything to do and see, adds more excitement to US travel than ever. It is obvious that African Americans have captured the attention of the travel industry with the success of Sinbad's Soul Music Festival in Aurba and the Essence Music Festival in New Orleans. I expect more grand festivals and historical tours for African Americans to come. After all, we are deinitely showing everyone that we do know how to spend money away from home. So be sure to add STEPPIN' OUT to your collection and use it to plan that next trip!	2001-08-21
US	52945088	R1XJRFBH1SWEO0	0394514688	514368968	A Gathering of Old Men	Books	4	2	4	N	N	A great classic!	A GATHERING OF OLD MEN by Ernest J. Gaines is referred to by many as one of the best-written novels on Southern race relations in over 20 years. This story, which takes place in Louisiana during the 1970's, is about how one young white woman and 18 very old black men toting 12-gauge shot guns take a stand to protect a member of  their community from some Klansmen who want nothing better than to take the law into their own hands. Beau Boutan, a mean spirited and hateful Cajun farmer, has been shot and killed by a black member of the community. To ensure that this person lives long enough to face a fair trial for the murder, 18 old men stand vigil with their guns, until they are satisfied that the law will be carried out properly. The real dilemma that Sheriff Mapes face upon dealing with these men, is determining which one of them really committed the crime. No amount of bullying and slapping around of them reveals the killer. In fact as each man is questioned, their account of injustices and hatred done to them by Beau Boutan and others like him in the community, made them all justified in killing this man. Still, the law is the  law, and killing someone is against the law. Just when it seems a confession is near, this story takes a very surprising turn that no one in this small Southern community expects or will ever forget.<br />It saddens me to hear some reviewers of this story say that if Gaines had written this book today, the &quot;race factor&quot; would probably not have been there; and therefore, the real meaning of this book would have been lost. It is obvious that these folks either have no idea what black life is like in the South, or, they're in serious denial about race relations in America's past  and/or present as a whole. I simply hope that those who read this book don't miss out on the fact that this was a story about change and hope. For the first time, these 18 old men who have been submissive all their lives to abuse and racism, finally find the courage to take a stand for what is right. For them, this becomes &quot;their first taste of power&quot; and a passing from the old to the new South.courage to take a stand for what is right. For them, this becomes &quot;their first taste of power&quot; and a passing from the old to the new South.	2001-08-21
US	52945088	R2BHXT2MMH691G	0595172121	520408377	i see through eyes	Books	5	1	1	N	N	A very passionate writer!	When you hear folks say that Eric Payne's book, I SEE THROUGH EYES, is filled with poetry and prose that has the ability to capture young minds and make old ones pause in deep reflection, then, you better believe it! I found that long after I finished reading this book, I could hear or see something in my day that would bring to mind certain poems from this collection.<br />This book consists of six sections with seven to thirteen narrative poems and prose pieces per section. From the beginning of the book to the end, Eric allows readers to see through his eyes and intimate thoughts some of the concerns, frustrations, and celebrations in the experiences of men. He articulates clearly in, &quot;The Neighbor&quot; and &quot;If I Was White, I Wonder,&quot; the struggles black men often have with racism and social acceptance. He describes man's spiritual nature and reverence for God succinctly in,  &quot;Man,&quot; &quot;Faith,&quot; and &quot;There is No God.&quot; Poems like, &quot;The Phone Call,&quot; &quot;Variation on The Phone Call,&quot; &quot;When,&quot; and &quot;My Heart,&quot; depicts the anxieties they feel when finding  love or facing heartaches. Then that sexy little Haiku titled,  &quot;Sunrise&quot; along with poems, &quot;Braggadocious&quot; and &quot;Petals Against My Skin,&quot; are so sensual and passionate that they are guaranteed to make a woman smile.<br />Reading I SEE THROUGH EYES, does capture one's attention and rocks like a lover as Bernice McFadden, author of SUGAR and THE WARMEST DECEMBER states on the book's cover. I enjoy reading poetry and I especially enjoyed this book and this writer's intimate thoughts about issues that are not always expressed openly by men. I look forward to reading  more by Eric Payne in the future!	2001-06-27
US	52945088	RO01H69JL9YOY	0684853418	244523164	Reinventing The Woman: A Novel	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Definitely looking forward to the sequel!	This latest self-help fiction novel by Patty Rice, tells the  story of how Camille Foster finds strength to survive in spite of the physical abuse she endures from her live-in boyfriend, Evan, and the rejection she receives for years from her parents. Even  though Camille vowed never to return to her family's house after she finished college, she finds she literally has no place to go after escaping another violent night with Evan. In spite of her feelings about being home again, it seems coming home was the best decision she ever made. At home, she slowly begins to &quot;reinvent&quot; herself and chip away at all the problems that have contributed to her low self-esteem and feelings of loneliness. At home is where she comes face to face with some disturbing family lies and secrets that ultimately cause her to re-evaluate her life and try to start over with a newfound hope for the future.<br />For a 368-page novel, this one moves rather quickly. Some readers will find the 12 Reinventing Rules which leads each chapter and serves as an outline for the book, helpful in observing Camille's growth from a battered woman to one who realizes that loving oneself is the way to finding inner peace and happiness. Camille is a complex character whose very existence hangs in the balance. The surprise twists and turns that occur throughout the story will leave readers, I'm sure, desperately needing some questions answered by the end of the book. But in view of how the book abruptly ends, one can only expect Ms. Rice to masterfully write a sequel that will bring closure to what in essence is a very interesting book.	2001-06-20
US	52945088	RBS1FG7R0FAF2	038542244X	989443396	Words to Make My Dream Childen Live: A Book of African American Quotations	Books	5	5	5	N	N	A must-have for the shelves!	Have you ever needed to quote one of today's prominent African American leaders and/or speakers and a quick look in Bartlett's and other popular quotation books did not leave you with many, if any, choices? Well, that is exactly what Deirdre Mullane, the editor, discovered after looking for an extensive collection of quotations by African Americans and finding none. This book, whose title comes from Joseph Seaman Cotter, Jr.'s poem in which he prayed, &quot;O God, give me words to make my dream-children live,&quot; consist of more than three thousands quotes from well-known African American figures. This impressive collection which not only includes quotations from prolific wirters and civil rights leaders, but also includes the powerful thoughts and personal reflections of black people in various professional fields like music, politics, sports, religion, and the arts.<br />All of the quotes were compiled from various sources such as novels, nonfiction, autobiographies, speeches, historical events and interviews. They are arranged in alphabetical order according to the speaker and include a brief biography of the person.  There is a handy Index of Speakers in the back just in case one knows the name of the person they desire to quote. Also in the back, is an Index of Famous Lines to aid readers who may be familiar with a quote but cannot remember who stated it. This impressive collection is a must-have for writers, journalists, public speakers, and familes!	2001-06-05
US	52945088	R33EFVAT23OMI7	1561707015	574181876	Gardening the Soul (New Dimensions)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	A very stimulating audio program!	It is no secret that Alice Walker is one of the most prolific writers of our time. GARDENING THE SOUL is an interesting audio program whereby Alice Walker speaks candidly with Michael Toms, the co-founder of New Dimensions Radio, on a variety of topics such as: church life in the deep South, stories of the Old Testament, the real meaning of Aunt Jemima, the importance of pagan nature, her impressions of Fidel Castro and Cuba, the real nature of human nature, and about herself as a writer.<br />I believe my favorite discussion on this tape centers on how her  writings, which comes in many different forms, feed on each other. Believing that everything in life has its own distinct nature, she describes her writings as one big garden that comes from one life - her life. Therefore, she sees her poetry as roses. Her novels are like root crops because they are so dense and talk about things that are really under the ground and deep. Her short stories are like tomatoes that are tasty enough for one to make a lunch out of them and go about the day without being committed. Her essays are like asparagus, whereby one can crunch on those for a snack. In short, she sees her writings as one large field that's being tended. Each form of writings growing there are expressions of the reality of the person who creates  them.<br />GARDENING THE SOUL is a stimulating audio program and without a doubt, Alice Walker is a frank and powerful thinker/writer. Even though I did not agree with all of her philosophies, I did find what she had to say in this hour-long program were thought provoking ideas on how to live well and find happiness in a complex world.	2001-06-03
US	52945088	RHRRX1EVDMEZO	038549680X	825776737	The Future Has a Past	Books	4	6	6	N	N	A book filled with some serious life lessons!	This is the second book I've had the pleasure to read by J.  California Cooper this year. Written in that simple down-home style, Ms. Cooper presents four compelling short stories about women of various ages and status. Even though each of the stories are different in plot, setting, and situation, one theme that seems to connect each of them together is LOVE.<br />In the first story, &quot;A Shooting Star,&quot; Maisha, the narrator, talks about the well-known affairs of her classmate and friend, Lorene Shaky. Some would view Maisha's telling of Lorene's life as nothing but the words of a jealous woman. But in spite of Lorene's glamour and beauty, Maisha knows that her friend never  understood that being in love went way beyond just having sex. Therefore, she feels deep grief for a friend who never knew what it meant to be cherished and truly loved. In &quot;A Filet of Soul,&quot; Luella has been told all her life by her mother, Sedalia, that she is ugly. She is told this in hopes that it will discourage her from seeking love, which would result in her having a broken  heart. What her mother always worried about comes true when Luella falls for the first fast-talking rascal she meets. Luckily, she did not let that unfortunate experience keep her from taking the risk again on finding an everlasting love. Vinnie, the single mother, in &quot;The Eagle Flies&quot; almost misses out on finding love and happiness when she allows her devotion to her selfish grown children to consume every aspect of her life. In the final story of this collection, &quot;The Lost and the Found,&quot; Irene faces up to the fact that her lover, Mr. Cool, whom she has waited for seven years, has no intentions of marrying her. Just when she realizes how much of her life has been lost waiting for Cool, she marvels at how she has found love again . . . this time from a man who has waited patiently for her all those years.<br />THE FUTURE HAS A PAST is a remarkable collection filled with humor, wisdom, and emotion. There are some serious life lessons in this book and I appreciate how Ms. Cooper weaves her tale in such a way that allows the reader to reflect and take from those lessons a sincere truth, which adds meaning and relevance to  one's life experiences. This is an excellent collection of short stories!isdom, and emotion. There are some serious life lessons in this book and I appreciate how Ms. Cooper weaves her tale in such a way that allows the reader to reflect and take from those lessons a sincere truth, which adds meaning and relevance to  one's life experiences. This is an excellent collection of short stories!	2001-05-31
US	52945088	R3NOBQHXH9A598	0375756590	489907150	The Shirt off His Back: A Novel (Strivers Row)	Books	5	12	12	N	N	A story about real love and true friendship!	&quot;Many brothers are good . . .  Some are even great . . .  Only a few will give you . . .  The shirt off his back.&quot;<br />The passage above taken from the beginning of Parry &quot;Ebony Satin&quot; Brown's latest novel, THE SHIRT OFF HIS BACK, pretty much sums up what readers will come to love and appreciate about the main character, Terrence Winston. Terry is a handsome man with some serious &quot;skills and benefits&quot; that makes him an ideal catch for any sister looking for Mr. Right. Besides being kind and generous to a fault, what adds to his appeal is the fact that he stepped up to the plate and took full responsibility of raising his twin daughters, Ariana and Alisa, as a single parent during his third year in college. No, he wasn't forced to do this, but wanted very much to raise the girls when their mother Catherine Hawkins  deserted them for a glamourous and lucrative career out of the country. With the help of his mother, Teresa, his sister, Veronica, and best friend, Roland Carpenter, Terry has been able to raise his daughters for eleven years in peace without any interference from Catherine. Now that he is about to marry the love of his life, Jackie, who is also a single parent to twins, Catherine shows up from Spain demading custody of the girls and respect for her role as their mother. Refusing to let her take his girls and disrupt their lives, Terry and bestfriend Roland, who happens to be a powerful and respected attorney, put their heads together and come up with a plan that will keep Catherine out their lives forever!<br />THE SHIRT OFF HIS BACK is an engaging book filled with humor, true friendship, love and feel-good romance. I commend author Parry Brown not only for writing an awesome story about a man who is obviously a good son, a wonderful brother, and true best friend; but for writing a story about a black man who is a loving  dedicated single parent. This was a fun book to read . . . and one that I would gladly read again and again!ain!	2001-05-23
US	52945088	R1JRWYRJAOL5DT	0967731208	404001709	A Swan Song	Books	4	2	2	N	N	A very promising start for this author!	Looking for an easy blend of poetry and prose that taps into many  aspects of daily life and human relationships? Then A SWAN SONG just might be the collection for you. When I think about the title that she chose for this collection, the first word that came to mind was graceful. Just as a swan moves gracefully with even strokes upon water, Janette Owen's intimate collection moves gracefully through a variety of topics that readers may enjoy and relate to.<br />This thin book is divided into six chapters with five to eight poems and short stories per chapter. All of the poems are easy to read and understand. Those poems written as rhyming couplets deal with intimacy, black freedom, and spiritual growth, while others are non-rhyming free verses, which explore topics of daily living and social problems. I believe my favorite poem is &quot;The Office.&quot; This engaging poem clearly identifies the strange breed of folks we often find in our workplace. But in spite of the office politics that is involved with gaining respect and securing promotions, the poet reminds us that what we endure is simply  part of our allegiance to whomever signs our paychecks. Of her short stories, &quot;Inclement Weather&quot; and &quot;A Swan Song,&quot; for which this collection is named, are my favorites. &quot;Inclement Weather&quot; centers on the stormy topic of interracial dating and how society's (especially the families of the couple) non-approval at times takes its toll on the lovers; while &quot;A Swan Song&quot; represents the private ponderings and sensual thoughts women  often have about the special men in their lives.<br />A SWAN SONG is a promising start for Janette Owens. I believe her  thoughts and words will transcend this book from just being about  black life in general to being a book for all races and human experiences everywhere.	2001-05-23
US	52945088	R30037XIKXAI98	0595152686	706192862	Is the Grass Greener?	Books	3	1	1	N	N	An easy to read mystery/romance!	Main character, Lydia Powell, finds herself in a bizarre situation when she and new acquaintance, Sheila Chamberline, returns from a nightclub to find a dead man in Shelia's bedroom. Of course when the police arrive, Sheila is arrested for murder and Lydia is later subpoenaed to testify against her during the trial. In spite of the strange things that occurred on their drive home that night, and all the damaging information that is revealed about Sheila's past during the trial, Lydia still believes her new friend is innocent.<br />With recurring nightmares about Sheila and feeling stressed over her testimony during the trial, the only peace Lydia has when she thinks about that horrible night is meeting Jerome. Their attraction for one another was instantaneous. It was very refreshing for her to meet an educated man who was not only easy to talk to, but who talked openly and honestly about himself. But just when she begins to feel that she has found 'Mr. Right' and the perfect role model for her young son, Travis, Jerome reveals something about his past that leaves her feeling confused and afraid to commit to him. With Sheila's fate in one hand and issues with Jerome in the other, Lydia realizes that whatever decisions she makes, will change the course of her life and those close to her forever.<br />This debut mystery/romance is an easy read. I must admit that I was caught up in it at first because I was intrigued by the discovery of the dead man. But I lost a little of my enthusiasm for reading this book as I literally sat with pencil in hand correcting glaring grammar errors and awkward sentence structure. This writer has lots of potential. I hope careful proofreading and/or editing is done more closely on the next writing project!	2001-04-14
US	52945088	R6GXGCZ0BBM16	0965658457	586165159	Babe	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Therapy for everyone!	With all the emotional problems and stress people find themselves under today, seeing a psychiatrist is probably as American as apple pie. At least that maybe true for some folks, but the idea of seeing a psychiatrist for 82 years old Beatrice Pearl, better known as Babe, takes some getting use to.  Babe has been suffering from recurring nightmares and severe headaches for quite some time. After visiting her own doctor, who finds nothing physically wrong, she is encouraged  by her daughter, Valeeda, to seek help from the young psychiatrist, Dr. Walker Davis. Even though she joins Dr. Walker's therapy sessions, he decides the best method of getting to the bottom of what is causing her nightmares and headaches is through hypnosis. Adhering to the advice her long time friend, Octavia, never to lie down on the couch, Babe allows Dr. Walker to use hypnosis to unlock the mysteries to her dreams. It is through hypnosis that the reader is taken back in time  to when at age 5, Babe witnesses something frightening and horrible that stays with her forever!<br />I found it very interesting that this book was titled BABE because so much detail and explanation was given to Dr. Walker and the members of his therapy session. There was Dorian Simmons, a compulsive gambler, Aloyishus Burns, an alcoholic, Vivian Delaney, a widow who suffers from depression, and Dr. Walker's pyromaniac brother, John, whose stories were just, if not more, riveting as Babe's. Still, I think what makes this book interesting is how Delores Thornton tells Babe's story through the process of psychiatric medicine. Mental competence  is important and is a touchy subject for someone who is as old as Babe. Senility is expected for someone her age, but mental  illness often carries an ugly stigma in society. So I commend Ms. Thornton on writing her story from this perspective.	2001-04-14
US	52945088	RPVIFOV27OS48	0679783237	959669414	Clotel: or, The President's Daughter (Modern Library Classics)	Books	5	14	15	N	N	An exquisite piece of literature!	The genre of African-American fiction began in 1853 with the publication of this historical novel in England. Even though William Wells Brown, a fugitive slave from America, wrote four versions of this story, the first version was not published in the United States until 1969. The reason this novel was not  introduced into American society until this time was because of its reference to the relationship Thomas Jefferson had with his slave, Sally Hemmings. The idea that Sally bore him children, which he sold as slaves, was enough to keep this novel out of the American public's eye forever!  Still, this novel found its way here and in later versions, Jefferson's connection to Sally vanished all together. This novel centers on three main characters: Currer, a slave who was once Thomas Jefferson's housekeeper and mistress, and their two daughters, Clotel and Althesa.<br />The separation of Currer and her two daughters in the beginning of the story provides the actual framework of this novel. Through this separation, Brown is able to create three separate story lines united by the institution of slavery.<br />The first story line involves Currer's life as a concubine of Thomas Jefferson and later a slave to a Reverend John Peck. Through her life, Brown presents the hypocrisy of the slave owner owning another human being as well as some Christians'  biblical approval of it. Brown uses the second story line of Clotel and her relationship with Horatio Green, to depict how vulnerable and hopeless life was for black women under slavery. Horatio adores Clotel so much that he provides her with a home of her own to raise their daughter, Mary. But Horatio desperately wants to further his political career and does so by marrying a white woman by the name of Gertrude. Feeling jealous and threatened by Clotel's presence, Gertrude sells Mary into slavery. The final story line involves the fate of Althesa. Like her sister, Althesa is a concubine to her master Henry Morton. But Morton later marries her and is a loving father to their two children. Even though Althesa experiences true love through marriage and was able to raise her children, the actual tragedy of her situation lies in what happens to her children. Through Althesa's story, Brown proves how her free rank in marriage  did not grant freedom for her daughters, which continually shows slavery's disruption of the black family unit.<br />CLOTEL, though considered melodramatic by some, is an exquisite piece of literature. Its importance is not only tied to the fact that it is the first published work of its kind in this genre, but gives readers a glimpse into the English language used by black people at that time. I think this novel was an excellent start for the genre of African American literature.later marries her and is a loving father to their two children. Even though Althesa experiences true love through marriage and was able to raise her children, the actual tragedy of her situation lies in what happens to her children. Through Althesa's story, Brown proves how her free rank in marriage  did not grant freedom for her daughters, which continually shows slavery's disruption of the black family unit.<br />CLOTEL, though considered melodramatic by some, is an exquisite piece of literature. Its importance is not only tied to the fact that it is the first published work of its kind in this genre, but gives readers a glimpse into the English language used by black people at that time. I think this novel was an excellent start for the genre of African American literature.	2001-04-14
US	52945088	R1O2AL8THAHZ08	0688156983	774187139	Blues: For All the Changes: New Poems	Books	5	6	8	N	Y	The Princess of Black Poetry does it again!	Nikki Giovanni, often referred to by fans as the &quot;Princess of Black Poetry,&quot; is back on the scene with another brilliant collection of poems titled, BLUES FOR ALL THE CHANGES. Anyone who knows music and about the Blues in general will find all the poems in this book to be in some way a lyrical and rhythmic statement not only about this radical poet's life, but about  some of the best and worst moments in Black America.<br />This book is divided into two main sections. The first 32 poems are called 'flatted thirds and sevenths.' Some of the poems in this section are short elliptical pieces that are  hard-hitting  while others are long  flowing prose pieces without any punctuation --meant to be read with the natural breathing rhythm of the reader. My favorite in this section is 'Visible Ink'(p.15) This poem which starts out describing the imperfections of folks from the Bible to Hollywood is a an extension of the blues being &quot; . . . about truth-telling.&quot; Yes, we all have imperfections, but it is through those imperfections that we learn what true living is all about. Through imperfections, real heroes arise and  become the forerunners in the necessary changes we see and need in our lifetime.  Other great poems in this section deals with topics that range from the Underground Railroad, civil rights, and hatred to special tributes to key people in our society like Betty Shabazz and Jackie Robinson.<br />The final 20 poems in this book are called 'fugue.' All of the poetry in this section depict the daily rhythm of human life coming together as we know it. These poems reflect our changing seasons, our dreams and aspirations, as well as our transient from this life to the next. This book is filled with poetry for every mood, emotion, and celebration!<br />Despite some critics believing that BLUES FOR ALL THE CHANGES is just another book about black anger in poetic form; or that Giovanni's opinions, though based in reality, are wrong  subjective conclusions . . . I find her work representative of the emotions and ideas that many Black people have about life in this country. I believe BLUES FOR ALL THE CHANGES resonants in truth and is an excellent read for National Poetry Month!conclusions . . . I find her work representative of the emotions and ideas that many Black people have about life in this country. I believe BLUES FOR ALL THE CHANGES resonants in truth and is an excellent read for National Poetry Month!	2001-04-03
US	52945088	R3LAKTBH6KNDO4	0738820768	142547594	And on the 8th Day, She Rested	Books	3	4	4	N	N	An engaging debut novel!	Domestic Violence. Funny how those two words pronounced together do not sound nearly as horrific and painful as what a victim of this kind of violence goes through. As Ruth Johnson, the main character in AND ON THE EIGHTH DAY SHE RESTED, would say, &quot;there's nothing domestic about the violence in my world.&quot; Therefore this novel is more than just another story centered on this type of violence. Instead, it is a story of celebration and self-discovery. It is a story about how one woman overcomes years of fear, physical, and mental abuse to being a self-assured woman who knows exactly what she wants and needs in her life.<br />Ruth Johnson loved her mother, Karen, very much. But her mother's need to always have any man around in her life is what subjects Ruth at an early age to so many unhealthy relationships between men and women. Therefore, it is no surprise that she stays in her violent marriage to Eric for fourteen years. Now Ruth is quick  to say that her mother's abusive relationships have nothing to do with her problems. She says &quot;fear&quot; plain and simple is at the root of her dilemma. She fears what Eric will do to her if she tries to leave him. She dreams about having a business of her own. But fear of failure keeps her from turning those dreams into reality. Most of all, her fears of never truly being loved for who she is keeps her feeling unworthy of any man's love. But when her chance finally comes to make a clean break from Eric and all the other demons in her life, Ruth's real journey to finding true love, self-respect and inner healing begins.<br />Author J. D. Mason takes readers on Ruth's unforgettable journey to self-actualization through a riveting and sometimes tense plot filled with some very engaging characters. When asked what challenges she faced when creating this story, she will tell you, \\"I wanted Ruth Johnson to be a heroine. She had to be a woman who'd overcome some monumental odds and come out on top.\\" Well, Ruth Johnson is an unforgettable heroine. This is a story I believe every woman should read . . . great debut novel!s an unforgettable heroine. This is a story I believe every woman should read . . . great debut novel!	2001-03-19
US	52945088	R2DHYA6RFWHGY4	0525945318	418423294	Sugar: A Novel	Books	5	4	4	N	N	A well written debut novel!	Being a girl raised in the South, and one who was born at the end of the 1950s, I must admit that Bernice McFadden's depiction of southern black life in her debut novel, SUGAR, is SURREAL. I have read a lot of compelling novels to date. But, I cannot recall reading one that held me spellbound by its vivid setting, characters, and language laced with southern idioms the way this novel did.<br />My first reaction while reading this book was a combination of shock and horror. The shock was due to the announcement that Pearl Taylor's fifteen-year-old daughter Jude was dead. The horror came when I learned that her killer cut away her womanhood with a knife and left it lying beside her body along the road. Jude's death hits this small black community hard because even though they suspect someone white did it, they feel there is nothing they can do about it. Therefore, it is not surprising that Pearl emotionally shut downs and withdraws from everyone including her sons and her beloved husband, Joe. Even though she physically moves about the community and continues to work faithfully in the church, she is numb to everything and everyone that is until  . . . Sugar Lacey moves to town.<br />When Sugar, a young brazen prostitute, moves next door to Pearl and Joe at 10 Grove Street, life for this town and for the Taylors changes forever.  Sugar's reception into the community was not a warm one. The women know right away what she is and hates her. The men are the biggest hypocrites of all.  By day, they are content to show their disapproval of her like the women, but by night they visit her in hopes of sampling her sexual talents. The only person who does not approve of the town's treatment of Sugar is Pearl. Therefore, it will be Pearl's willing acceptance and genuine kindness that will forge a deep bond of sisterhood and true friendship between these two very different women. Because of Sugar, Pearl comes alive and begins to experience a passion for her husband that she lost after Jude's death. Because of the Taylors, Sugar begins to realize there is hope of finding true love and acceptance in her life. But, in spite of all the changes that occurs for Sugar and the Taylors, the threat of what happened to Jude comes back and strips away any peace and happiness they desire to find. To read SUGAR is to experience moments of awe, laughter, anger, shame, and pain. This is truly the best book I've read in a very long time!t after Jude's death. Because of the Taylors, Sugar begins to realize there is hope of finding true love and acceptance in her life. But, in spite of all the changes that occurs for Sugar and the Taylors, the threat of what happened to Jude comes back and strips away any peace and happiness they desire to find. To read SUGAR is to experience moments of awe, laughter, anger, shame, and pain. This is truly the best book I've read in a very long time!	2001-03-03
US	52945088	RN09VYYJYOC9W	0060931418	624509678	Their Eyes Were Watching God	Books	5	24	28	N	N	A Harlem Renaissance Classic!	THEIR EYES WERE WATCHING GOD is a haunting story told in the black vernacular about one woman's search for true love and independence. At age 16, Janie Crawford believes that she has every right to find true love on her terms. The day she lay beneath a pear tree in her grandmother's backyard and witnessed a bee pollinating there was the day she realized the sensual pleasures she wanted very much to experience in her life. But instead of her being able to explore these feelings and find her soul mate, she is confined to a couple of loveless marriages. The first was to a much older man, Logan Killicks, out of financial security and respectability (under the advisement of her randmother). The second marriage to Jody Starks was out of desperation to escape her first marriage and for security. But it will be Janie's third marriage to a much younger man, Tea Cake, which allows her to feel a sense of freedom in choosing  someone to love openly for the very first time. Of course when the Eatonville community she lives in shows their displeasure over her relationship with Tea Cake, Janie throws caution to the wind by marrying and moving away with him to start a new life in the Everglades. Even though her third marriage ends tragically  with her killing Tea Cake in self-defense, she doesn't seem to regret her experience. In fact, she makes peace with all that has happened in her life and returns to Eatonville in spite of the envious stares and gossip from the people speculating what happened between her and Tea Cake. She comes back no longer under the ownership of a man, but as a self-assured independent woman who owes no one any explanations.<br />After reading this novel and discovering that Zora Neale Hurston was the recipient of 2 Guggenheims, the author of 4 novels, 12 short stories, 12 essays, 2 musicals, and 2 black mythologies, I could not help wondering how this literary giant disappeared from us for nearly 3 decades.  To my disappointment I learned that her  disappearance was due to her peers (mainly Richard Wright) criticizing her openly and publicly for not writing about the so-called &quot;serious social trends&quot; of the time. But what I cannot understand is how her peers could not think what happened to Janie Crawford (and women like her) by husbands and the community at large was not a serious social trend of the time. Just because Zora chose to write about the injustices done within the black community rather than the injustices done to the black community did not make her works any less poignant. The appeal and rediscovery of this novel by scholars, women writers, and the American public in general has definitely made THEIR EYES WERE WATCHING GOD into a timeless classic of the Harlem Renaissance era.earance was due to her peers (mainly Richard Wright) criticizing her openly and publicly for not writing about the so-called &quot;serious social trends&quot; of the time. But what I cannot understand is how her peers could not think what happened to Janie Crawford (and women like her) by husbands and the community at large was not a serious social trend of the time. Just because Zora chose to write about the injustices done within the black community rather than the injustices done to the black community did not make her works any less poignant. The appeal and rediscovery of this novel by scholars, women writers, and the American public in general has definitely made THEIR EYES WERE WATCHING GOD into a timeless classic of the Harlem Renaissance era.	2001-02-24
US	52945088	R31200K4F9ZHDL	0446527920	604788423	Temptation	Books	4	1	1	N	Y	Lead Us Not Into Temptation!	When I discovered that TEMPTATION was a contemporary Christian novel, I was a little unsure if I would enjoy it. I guess I was expecting it to be more preachy than anything else. But what I found was a tender love story filled with God's words and the application of those words in the lives of some incredible characters.<br />When Kyla and Jefferson vowed on their wedding day before God and invited guests to forsake all others and keep only unto each other for as long as they both lived, they never thought that sexual temptation by a close friend would almost destroy their marriage and family. The close friend was none other than Kyla's devoted childhood buddy, Jasmine. Jasmine who felt unlucky at finding true love and happiness in her marriage to high school sweetheart, Kenneth Larson, finally accepts her divorce and sets her sights on the one man she feels can give her the life she so richly deserves -- Kyla's husband, Jefferson Blake.<br />It seems the only person who is aware of Jasmine's cruel intentions, was Kyla's best friend from college, Alexis Ward. Alexis, a beautiful and successful businesswoman, does everything humanly possible to keep Kyla and Jefferson together despite Jasmine's machinations. When Alexis was not caught up in the lives of her best friends she was battling some pretty strong temptations of her own. She has finally met the 'man of her dreams,' Dr. Brian Lewis.  This man brought so much to her life.  Still, she found herself facing one of the toughest challenges ever -- how to love, keep, and hold on to this man without compromising her faith and God's will for her life.<br />Victoria Christopher Murray writes a splendid novel that explores the challenges and victories married and dating singles face when they remain committed to God's word. I also believe she presents us with the fact that Christians are just as vulnerable to worldly temptations as the next person. But it is how they choose to handle those temptations that make all the difference in the world. So is this a book for everyone? Sure it is! It is a novel filled with all the ingredients that makes for an excellent read -- passion, betrayal, true friendship and most of all real love!difference in the world. So is this a book for everyone? Sure it is! It is a novel filled with all the ingredients that makes for an excellent read -- passion, betrayal, true friendship and most of all real love!	2001-02-24
US	52945088	R3J6YJ6D2GX5Z	0595127290	299967911	Cover to Cover	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Don't Judge This Book By Its Cover!	I'm sure you've heard the old clich&eacute;, &quot;never judge a book by its cover.&quot; Well that is the exact phrase I use when recommending COVER TO COVER  by D.M. Brown to close friends and other avid mystery readers. This is a uniquely written book that waste no time capturing the reader's attention as it begins with the main  character waking up in a hospital bed with no knowledge as to how she got there.She has been badly beaten, raped, and left for dead. Luckily she survives, but not without being left disabled. Severe damages to her throat leaves her with no voice. Realizing that her attacker will probably strike again once he discovers  she is not dead, has this young woman and two friends determined to find answers to why she is under attack.<br />I never realized how much I depend on a character's name, race, and origin until I was faced with reading this novel without any background information or name for the main character. I laugh now as I think back at how I followed another friend's suggestion to call her, Jane Doe. But after a while, not knowing the main  character's name was not a problem because I began to focus on how in spite of not having a voice she was able to express herself fully as a woman, as a friend and ultimately as an established writer. Therefore, I believe the main character's  actions are representative of what women in general must do when they find themselves with no voice in society. Real change and acceptance for women occurs when they find creative ways to express themselves in spite of difficult challenges.<br />COVER TO COVER is an excellent read and will have you scratching your head and rereading parts of it slowly and carefully for clarification...	2001-02-24
US	52945088	R3S3JYDEZJS5XZ	1882792939	49395835	Silent Suspicion (Lincoln Keller Mystery Series)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Another great Lincoln Keller mystery!	Once again author Lee Meadows takes mystery fans on another  action-packed ride through the streets of Detroit with the  hard-hitting yet caring detective, Lincoln Keller. His assignment this time is to bring closure to the unsolved murder case of Deborah Norris, the sister-in-law of the outspoken Circuit Court Judge &quot;War Zone&quot; Henderson.<br />In the beginning Lincoln has a lot of mixed feelings about this case because he was  not sure that he was going to successfully find the answers the judge was looking for. After all, eight years had passed since her murder took place. Even the local police department's investigation did not reveal anything . . .  other than it was a random robbery &amp; homicide. But once Lincoln begins to delve into the personal and professional life of Deborah, he soon realizes that she was a gifted writer whose life had been cut short. Her life was not cut short because of a random act of violence, but because she was asking way too many questions about something that was going on in a close friend's life.<br />So who really killed Deborah Norris? That classic &quot;whodunit&quot; question is revealed gradually as Lee Meadows presents us with intriguing characters whose lives are immersed in complicated lies and secrets which makes them all perfect suspects. In addition to the new characters in this tale, we are reacquainted with computer whiz Julie at Info-Search,  Lincoln's love interest, detective Candy Malone, the annoying and overbearing Lieutenant Knackton, and the notorious Keller brothers --  characters which made Meadows debut novel, SILENT CONSPIRACY, a success! I enjoyed this mystery very much. I congratulate Meadows on his ability to not only tell a mystery story filled with present day humor, passion and violence, but to tell a story that keeps readers actively invovled with solving the mystery to the very end.	2001-02-15
US	52945088	R1FH2IN3JH3MKI	1882792386	815756713	Silent Conspiracy: A Lincoln Keller Mystery	Books	5	2	2	N	N	A Great Debut Mystery Novel!	When Lee Meadows asked our online book club to consider, SILENT CONSPIRACY, I welcomed the idea immediately since we had no mystery novel on our reading list. As I previewed the book, I hoped that it was filled  with all the deception, intrigue, murder, and passion that makes mystery  novels exhilarating to read. Well, I'm proud to say that he didn't let me  down. In fact, his novel provided me with all the above ingredients and  more! This was an interactive novel for me from start to finish. The sights  and sounds of Detroit were so vivid that I felt as though I was right there  riding 'shot-gun' in the front seat of detective Lincoln Keller's 1987  Chevy Nova. The inclusion of historical events like McCarthyism and the  senseless killing of Emmitt Till was nicely done because it gave me a  better understanding  of the social injustices &amp; problems that served  as a backdrop to the 40 year old missing persons case Lincoln Keller was  trying to solve. Each lead or clue that he uncovered had my brain working  overtime to the point that I was looking ahead for the answers. Lee Meadows  debut novel is simply -- a great mystery!	2000-05-30
US	52945088	R26MP2HLTMY9DW	0385318634	931158029	Please Please Please	Books	5	1	2	N	Y	Please, Please, Please - - the pleasure was all mine!	With sibling rivalry, gossiping co-workers, and infidelity being at the heart of this book, readers I'm sure will relate to all that is at play in this novel.  Renee Swindle presents characters that are intense and  engaging as they come. Babysister's willful behavior in every relationship  she has either makes you love her or want to strangle her. So . . .  to all  the &quot;Babysisters&quot; in this world, THANKS! Without you, there would  be no great stories like this one to read.	2000-05-29
US	52945088	R2EIWFJTH5XZU0	014018998X	552921765	The Souls of Black Folk (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	This Is Truly A Powerful Collection of Essays!	W.E.B. Du Bois uses these essays to describe how Blacks' quiet acceptance of racism and slavery only stifles their chance for advancement in a society that basically considers them a problem. He is totally convinced  that racism exist because America has not been educated about the gifted  souls of Black folks! I believe Du Bois does an excellent job in describing  how every African American in this country feels when he says,  &quot;he  simply wishes to make it possible for a man to be both [Black] and an  American without . . . having the doors of Opportunity closed roughly in  his face.&quot; This is truly a powerful collection of essays!	2000-05-25
US	52945088	R1NIZPQ5WVT83U	0375503404	658864060	When All Hell Breaks Loose: A Novel	Books	5	0	0	N	N	A Real Page Turner!	This novel was truly a page turner from start to finish! I believe my pleasure with it lies in the author's ability to delve into the minds of men to reveal how they cope with and feel about women who betray, lie and  reject them.	2000-05-24
US	52945088	R16IUV02KDCTCW	0060812508	318363039	Black Boy (American Hunger : A Record of Childhood and Youth)	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Richard Wright's autobiography, Black Boy hits hard!	Richard Wright's autobiography, Black Boy, is a hard hitting novel that either stimulates praise or anger from those who read it. He uses his autobiography as a personal and political protest against the psychological mistreatment  of young Negroes by both black and white Southern communities. The psychological mistreatment forced on him by blacks was simply in the form of beatings and censure from relatives which were intended to make him submissive and keep him from being lynched. The psychological mistreatment forced on him by whites was simply having to live and adhere to Jim Crow Laws. Some people have asked why would Richard Wright write an autobiography of this nature. His life experiences definitely would not have been as effective in arousing the public's interest written as fiction. I found his autobiography to be tough, warm, funny, and compelling. I have no doubt in my mind that his experiences were as he stated, because as autobiography goes - it just tells it like it is	1997-04-15
