US	52942244	RPM17XTEX71KN	0974110299	832520249	The Complete Success Guide for the Immigrant Life: How to Survive * How to Thrive * How to be Fully Alive	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Inspiring!  Uplifting!	I'm really quite taken with this book.  It's not my typical fare, but a friend thought I would find it interesting.  How right she was!<br />As I scanned the introduction, I was immediately captured.  Ms. Maglaya's positive outlook, her confidence and sincerity, and most of all her love for America captivated me.  As I read further I realized this book is full of wisdom as well as useful, practical advice and information.<br />  There is something for everyone in this marvelous book.  While written for new and aspiring immigrants, it practical tips for getting along in life will prove invaluable to everyone, particularly to young people on the verge of starting out on their own.<br />The book is well organized, with chapters aimed at specific slices of the immigrant experience.  Chapter 1, Getting Legal Status, focuses necessarily on immigrants.  Chapter 2 does so, as well, but the focus starts to broaden.  By chapter 3 Ms. Maglaya is speaking to everyone who wants or needs a better understanding of this nation and culture, and how to be successful in it.  Consider, for example, her practical advice for getting out on your own (Chapter 2), keeping yourself fit (Chapter 3), the benefits of a military career (Chapter 5), money management (Chapter 6), common scams and other pitfalls (Chapter 7), and so on.  Throughout she breaks up the narrative with useful graphics, background information, and relevant quotations.<br />The real strength of this book, though, is Ms. Maglaya herself.  She has a rich and varied background.  Her approach to life makes her a standard bearer for the type of immigration this country needs (and usually gets).  The values she espouses, the ethics she projects, and above all the pride with which she speaks her Americaness is truly heartwarming.  She projects a trait common to most immigrants, but which gets lost in today's political discussions about immigration; to wit, she came here because this is where she saw her future.  She wanted to behere, and she is a true American.  She has an unbounded love and appreciation for this country that is lost among many of us that were born and raised here.  <br />I can't help but wonder how many languages this book will be translated into.  I hope it will be many because she will be a wonderful ambassador of the American spirit.  Three cheers, Ms. Maglaya, and a rousing five stars!	2004-02-02
US	52942244	R2RCLEH1X7HV6E	0974110280	271998575	The Immigrant's Little Quote Book for Success 1001 Brilliant Nuggets of Wit and Wisdom from the Best Men and Women who ever Trod the Earth	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Wisdom and Experience!	I'm drawn to quotations.  They speak to the soul, provide guidance in good times and bad, and give glimpses into the past.  I have built a collection over the years, which I carry with me each workday.  What pulled me especially to Ms. Maglaya's book was a quote cited on the back, The wisdom of the wise and the experience of the ages are perpetuated by quotations (Disraeli).  I couldn't have said it better.  <br />This is a companion book to Ms. Maglaya's *The Complete Success Guide for the Immigrant Life.*  Scan it and you quickly realize that, like The Success Guide, the quotes she selected are useful to everyone, not just immigrants.  Those looking to immigrate to America, along with those already here, will find this book particularly useful for the insights it gives to significant parts of our cultural heritage.  Everyone will find wisdom and practicality in these quotations.  Some quotes will make you smile; many will make you pause and think.  <br />So, good show, Ms. Maglaya!  This little book is a winner.	2004-02-02
US	52942244	R3LMB184R0OIKD	1883642558	940587806	Scenes from the End: The Last Days of World War II in Europe	Books	2	0	3	N	N	Not What I Expected	I wasn't impressed with this book.  I had expected something broader in scope; something more profound.  Instead, I found a rambling set of reminiscences.  Manuel was an intelligence officer in the XXI Corps during the closing months of the war in Europe.  He provides no original insight into combat operations or how they were affected by the intelligence his unit gathered.  Rather, he provides a run-on panoply of impressions and anecdotes, almost without stopping for breath, primarily gleaned from his and others' interrogations.  While some are interesting, most are uninspired.  This is a slim volume (some 130 pages) that becomes tedious and does little to educate the reader about this tumultuous time other than to provide some insight at the individual level into the befuddlement and desperation of Germans, soldiers and civilians alike, as their world crumbled.  If your interest in this period is great, then this book is worth a few minutes.  Otherwise, you ought to pass it by.	2004-01-02
US	52942244	R3B80BF6L7ZAOU	0614214769	831757825	The Road to Mecca	Books	5	39	39	N	N	Definitely Worth Reading!	Books about Islam and Arabia abound.  Not surprisingly, most have a Western bias if for no other reason than they view events through Western eyes.  Professor Edward Said once advised that to gain an understanding of Islam and Arabia one should read more than Bernard Lewis.  He suggested two books: Classical Arab Islam (by Tarif Khalidi) and The Road to Mecca.  Perusing the latter, one understands his point. <BR> <BR>Muhammad Asad was a Polish-Austrian Jew born to an orthodox rabbi in Lwow (then a part of Austro-Hungary) in the summer of 1900 whose spiritual journey led him eventually to leave Judaism and embrace Islam.  Though published in 1957, Asad is recounting events from the 1920s and early 1930s.  The central thread is a haj to Mecca in 1932 via camel from the northern reaches of Saudi Arabia.  He uses flashbacks to give the history of his travels and conversion.<br />His conversion started in adolescence.  \\"Under the influence of an agnostic environment, I drifted...into a matter-of-fact rejection of all institutional religion.\\" (61)  Seeking adventure he joined the Austrian army toward the end of 1914.  He was only 14, but tall.  This made it easier to convincingly lie about his age.  His father tracked him down, though, so his enlistment didn't last more than a few weeks.  Four years later he was drafted into the army, \\"but by then was searching for other avenues to self-fulfillment.\\"  His draft enlistment was only a little longer than his previous one for soon Austria-Hungary was out of the war.<br />After attending a university for a time, he gave up his studies to pursue journalism.  It wasn't the profession that drew him, per se, but rather wanderlust leavened with spiritual restlessness.  This led him to the Middle East in 1922 where his growing rejection of Western materialistic egocentrism found root in Islamic values that revolve around the brotherhood of man and individual self-discipline.<br />Throughout his journey of conversion, as he drifted farther and farther from his familial and cultural roots, he was befriended by an interesting variety of Arabs.  This included religious leaders and even the royal Saud family.  He took an Arab wife (who bore him a son), lost her to illness, and later married a German woman (and another son) who shared his spiritual longing.    His journeys, which have the flavor of Bedouin wanderings, took him throughout the Arab world, through circuits of Afghanistan and Iran that could be a geographic primer for contemporary military operations there, and even a foray into Libya in 1932 to gain intelligence for Crown Prince Saud concerning local resistance to Italian occupation.<br />The book is well written with a sophisticated style.  Asad was in love with Arabia and Islam, and it shows in his descriptions of the land, his awakening, and all things Arab in a glowing, propagandistic prose.<br />He starts the book with a description of the West's cultural bias towards Islam, the beginnings of which he attributes to our Greco-Roman heritage.  \\"Ever since Greek and Roman times, European thinkers and historians have been prone to contemplate the history of the world from the standpoint and in terms of European history and Western cultural experiences alone.  Non-Western civilizations enter the picture only in so far as their existence, or particular movements within them, have or had a direct influence on the destinies of Western man; and thus, in Western eyes, the history of the world and its various cultures amounts in the last resort to little more than an expanded history of the West.\\" (5)  These insensitivities are also \\"rooted in impressions that were born during the Crusades.\\"  (7)  \\"When, in his famous speech at Clermont, in November, 1095, Pope Urban II exhorted the Christians to make war upon the 'wicked race' that held the Holy Land, he enunciated - probably without knowing it himself - the charter of Western civilization.\\" (9).  Probably, indeed.<br />This book is part religion, part philosophy, and part cultural exploration.  He contrasts Christianity, with its gradual withering of a strong spiritual hold on Western civilization, with Islam and its pervasiveness with Arabian spirituality and life.  He recognizes that Arab culture is not as robust as it was centuries ago (e.g., 317), but he offers little explanation.  (Ironically, he says, \\"It was not Muslims that had made Islam great; it was Islam that had made the Muslims great.\\" (207))  He also describes the stubbornness of Arabs along with their history of a willingness to resist political repression regardless of the odds.  He made particular mention of the people of Baghdad: \\"...a great strength was apparent in these men: the strength of hatred - hatred of the foreign power that denied them their freedom.  The people of Baghdad had always been obsessed by longing for freedom as by a demon.\\"  (222-223)  I'm not sure what that says about Saddam Hussein's hold on them, but it may be apropos of our post-Saddam occupation of Iraq.<br />Beyond being an interesting read, the relevance of this book is the insight it provides into Arab sensibilities today.  It shows a history of resistance to outside influences and an underlying sense of outrage at dar al-Harb for its lack of spiritual perfection.  <br />Asad was a man before his time.  His views - this book - provide the underpinnings of today's ideology of Islamism.  \\"Never before, I reflected, have the worlds of Islam and the West come so close to one another as today.  This closeness is a struggle, visible and invisible.  Under the impact of Western cultural influences, the souls of many Muslim men and women are slowly shriveling.\\"  (371)  He professed a balance with the West, but the seeds of conflict are clear.<br />Professor Said was correct.  This book is definitely worth reading.	2004-01-02
US	52942244	R1IEQBU03FXOGP	1400040442	437281256	Bangkok 8: A Royal Thai Detective Novel (1)	Books	4	8	9	N	N	An Entertaining Read	An unusual murder and the concomitant death of a partner who was also a cherished, life-long friend - so begins an intriguing, garish, yet sympathetic look into the underside of life in Bangkok.  These deaths occurred in Bangkok's 8th police district (hence the title).  As summarized on the front end flap, \\"Under a Bangkok bridge, inside a bolted-shut Mercedes: a murder by snake - a charismatic African American Marine sergeant killed by a methamphetamine-stoked python and a swarm of stoned cobras.  Two cops - the only two in the city not on the take - arrive too late.  Minutes later, only one is alive: Sonchai Jitpleecheep - a devout Buddhist, equally versed in the sacred and the profane - son of a long-gone Vietnam War G.I. and a Thai bar girl whose subsequent international clientele contributed richly to Sonchai's sophistication.\\"  <br />The unusual circumstances behind the two deaths are matched by a variety of compelling, occasionally surrealistic characters Detective Jitpleecheep encounters as he works his way through seemingly disparate clues - bargirls who use the only resource available to themselves as they try to find a better life, an international art dealer who uses his power to satisfy his sado-sexual fantasies, a transsexual driven by a desire for revenge, and police officials that use and perpetuate institutionalized corruption as a vehicle to achieve personal wealth and power.  Along the way he ruminates on his past, his close relationship with his now-dead partner, subtleties of Thai culture, and an uncertain future as he struggles to reconcile his inner conflict: his Western biological roots versus his deep affinity for Thai culture; his role in a tangled world versus his longing for self-enlightenment and inner peace.  His struggle mirrors the broader struggle that is Burdett's central theme: the longing for a spiritual Buddhist past versus the increasing encroachment of Western technological consumerism.  <br />The plot is contrived, somewhat larger than life, but luckily doesn't get in the way.  It holds one's interest, but the beauty of the book is the story of the seamier side of Bangkok's culture.  Burdett has captured the turmoil, the inner conflict, of a spiritual people who avoided outright European colonization (one of a small handful of Asian countries to do so) only to succumb to Western wealth in the second half of the twentieth century.  The conflict within Detective Jitpleecheep mirrors this broader Thai conundrum.<br />Burdett's style is readable; the story well paced.  The ending is a bit strange, but the descriptions of Thai culture and life in Bangkok that season the book throughout are a delight.  It has the makings of a movie along with a sequel or two.  One hope's we have not heard the last from Sonchai Jitpleecheep.	2004-01-02
US	52942244	R1NTE486XJ9E14	0066214122	245555180	Prey	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Okay, but not Great	This was a mildly enjoyable read, but certainly not compelling or breathtaking story (as the flap synopsis would have you believe).  The plot is contrived, the characters are not well developed, and there are character imponderables not explained.  There is suspense and a fast pace, but they are not well molded.  And while there is a plot twist towards the end that is interesting, the story ends abruptly, like a steam engine that just runs out of heat.  Not what you would expect from someone of Crichton's caliber.<br />The story revolves around a nanotechnology project in the Nevada desert.  A small research firm is working a Department of Defense contract to develop a battlefield intelligence-gathering system based on a cloud of nanocomponents.  These would act in concert, forming a composite lens and communications system that would have a high degree of survivability against conventional enemy countermeasures.  To complicate things, \\"The nanoparticles in the cloud had to be endowed with a rudimentary intelligence, so that they could interface with each other to form a flock that wheeled in the air.\\" (pg. 125)  The flocking capability would enhance usefulness as well as survivability.  Unfortunately emergence theory came into play during testing and development, which led to rapid evolution towards self-awareness and a survival instinct.  <br />Crichton does a reasonable job of explaining the technical basis underlying the plot.  He takes us through nanotechnology, artificial distributed intelligence, flocking behavior, and so forth.  This is what saves the book.  It's worth reading, but really only for the science in it.	2004-01-02
US	52942244	RRKA5LP7DN4FA	0871135329	331588213	The Lucifer Principle: A Scientific Expedition into the Forces of History	Books	5	12	13	N	N	Intriguing; really most intriguing.	This is an intriguing read full of profound, albeit occasionally hyperbolic, insights guaranteed to stimulate argument and conversation.  \\"The Lucifer Principle is a complex of natural rules, each working together to weave a fabric that sometimes frightens and appalls us...Nature does not abhor evil; she embraces it.  She uses it to build.  With it, she moves the human world to greater heights of organization, intricacy, and power...[F]rom our best qualities come our worst.  From our urge to pull together comes our tendency to tear each other apart.  From our devotion to a higher good comes our propensity to the foulest atrocities.  From our commitment to ideals comes our excuse to hate...[E]vil is woven into our most basic biological fabric.\\" (2-3)  The primal moving force of evolution is not individual selection, but rather group competition. (5-6)  \\"The individual is a cell in the social superorganism.\\" (56)<br />Obviously, this is outside the mainstream of conventional thought, but Bloom supports his thesis well.  He takes us on a psychological tour of the human species.  Along the way he reaches throughout history as well as throughout the animal kingdom for examples and corollaries.  Many are unexpected and some challenge popular understanding (achieving group dominance via aggression and infanticide among chimpanzees, for example).<br />Bloom identifies five concepts that \\"are the foundation underlying the Lucifer Principle.\\"  (10) Paraphrasing, these are: <BR>     · Self-organizing systems - Bits of structure, such as genes, that function as minifactories that crank out their goods so cheaply that the end results are appallingly expendable.  Among those expendable products are you and me.<BR>     · The superorganism - We are not the rugged individuals we would like to be.  We are, instead, disposable parts of a being much larger than ourselves - a larger social organism.  This can be a nation, an ethnic group, an ideology, and so on.<BR>     · The meme -A self-replicating cluster of ideas that become the glue that holds together these superorganisms, giving each its distinctive culture.<BR>     · The neural net - The group mind whose eccentric mode of operation manipulates our emotions and turns us into components of a massive learning machine.<BR>     · The pecking order - The key to despotism, this helps explain why the danger of barbarians is real and why the assumptions of our foreign policies are often wrong.<br />\\"Superorganism, ideas, and the pecking order - these are the primary forces behind much of human creativity and earthly good.  They are the holy trinity of the Lucifer Principle.\\" (326)<br />His is not an abstract anthropological survey.  Bloom intends it to have sound application in the interactions of groups (i.e., superorganism).  In particular, he is writing for the United States today.  He says we have peaked as a nation and are on the decline.  Like all empires that came before, we will not stay on top of the pecking order indefinitely.  <br />I agree with this eventuality (we are, after all, part of history's sweep), but I believe the US is still ascending.  Events in the past several decades belay his pessimism.  Our first 100ish years were our childhood and adolescence.  We began to mature in the 1900s.  As the 20th century opened we began flexing our international muscles.  We subsequently prevailed over the Great Depression, two World Wars, and the Cold War.  Along the way we developed the strongest economy and technological base in history, and made, and continue to make, successful inroads towards overcoming racial discrimination and other social ills.  By the end of the century we had become the strongest superpower the world has ever known (including Rome) and the destination of choice for the majority of immigrants worldwide.  This is hardly the beginnings of a fall from grace.  Our time will eventually pass, to be sure, but unless we are swallowed up in a demographic or holocausticstorm near-term, we are a long way from losing our preeminence.<br />America's destiny notwithstanding, Bloom's arguments help explain what makes the world go around.  For example, he gives insight as to why our allies in Europe and elsewhere want our protection yet often work at cross-purposes seemingly to ensure that our power is curbed.  He aptly applies human attributes to these supraliminal processes as a way to explain them.<br />Of immediate relevance for us today, Bloom decries Islamic fundamentalism.  He sees a fundamental schism between dar al-Islam and the West.  \\"Today's Islam is the perfect example of a meme grown ravenous...where violence is elevated to a virtue.\\"  (228 and 234)  Given the Lucifer Principle, this schism will be overcome, if at all, only by great sacrifice on both sides.  Seeing parallels wit Rome, 19th century China, and the British Empire, he is pessimistic about our ability to prevail in this struggle.  However, he wrote this book before our War on Terror began.  Accepting that we are still in the early rounds of this fight, it would be interesting to learn how, if at all, his pessimism has changed.  (I wonder if perhaps key members of the current Bush Administration read this book before 9/11, took his pessimism to heart, and factored it into their formulation of post-9/11 strategy.)<br />In the end Bloom is wrestling with such ageless, fundamental questions as:  Why is there pain and suffering in life?  Why do people die in battle?  Why do people give their lives for others?  His answer is that it is nature's way of stimulating growth, development, and evolution.  Evil is the flipside of goodness.  It is the combustible that brings efficiency and mechanical advantage to humanity's growth engine.  It is a critical component of that which inspires us to greatness and to struggle toward our collective destiny.  Without evil we wouldn't attain it.<br />This book is an intellectual journey through humanness, opening the door to new ways of looking at our species, our role, and our purpose.  It will stimulate endless rounds of thought and conversation.  Four stars, and a rousing \\"Bravo!\\" for Howard Bloom.	2003-12-29
US	52942244	R20MXYAIAJNRK1	0385504004	57025522	Ripples of Battle: How Wars of the Past Still Determine How We Fight, How We Live, and How We Think	Books	4	23	24	N	N	Interesting read, but not profound.	I'm a great fan of VDH - his academic career, his style of writing, his outspokenness on current geopolitical events, and his political outlook.  That carries this book for me, but probably not in the way he had intended.<br />With this one VDH wants \\"to show that while all battles are not equivalent in their effects upon civilization, they do share at least this common truth: there will be some fundamental and important consequences beyond other more normal occurrences...Battles really are the wildfires of history, out of which the survivors float like embers and then land to burn far beyond the original conflagration.  To teach us those important lessons we must go back through the past to see precisely how such calamities affected now lost worlds -- and yet still influence us today.\\"  (16)  To illustrate his point, VDH then walks us through three examples: Okinawa (1945), Shiloh (1862) and Delium (424 BC).<br />It is no revelation that battles -- all battles -- have some effect on the future, rather through premature deaths, the ensuing revectoring of cultural trends and relationships, or changes in the mindsets of survivors, as well as in other ways that may not become apparent until long after the battle.  It also goes without saying that some battles will have a more profound impact than others.  To this extent Ripples brings nothing to the table, not even in the choice of battles that VDH describes.  They were important, to be sure, but were not unique in the degree of impact on humanity.<br />The book's strength actually is in VDH's storytelling and conclusions.  He doesn't describe each battle in detail; rather, he describes some of the more important ripples emanating from each.  For revisionists that decry the use of the atomic bomb on Imperial Japan in 1945, VDH shows that Okinawa, and the use of suicide attacks in general, presaged to Allied war planners the degree of death that awaited an amphibious invasion of the home islands and the ensuing campaignto defeat the Japanese.  He then ascribes these lessons, learned by company and field grade officers in World War II that later rose to high levels of command and planning, as the basis for our strategic and operational thinking during the Korean War years and the war in Vietnam. (59)  He even links Japanese suicide attacks to modern Islamist and Palestinian tactics. (38)  There is merit to his reasoning, but conclusiveness of this connecting thread awaits more thorough research.<br />And so it goes with Shiloh and Delium.  Shiloh was the second chance needed by General's Grant and Sherman that put them on the road to senior Union commands and a quicker Confederate defeat. (89)  VDH also describes the battle's impact on national politics and future Presidential administrations.  As for Delium, it set the tone for Western tactical thought (235) and even for the strategy of preemptive attack. (179)  There is more to his telling of each of these battles -- notable participants, circumstances, ripples, and so forth -- but this illustrates how he supports his thesis.<br />In his last chapter VDH delves into the question of what makes some battles more lastingly important to subsequent human affairs than others.  He ascribes this to tactics, numbers, the dead, location, timing, political aftershocks, and luminaries, all of which \\"affect the ripples of a given battle.\\" (248).  To this he adds the presence of historians or, more specifically, historical remembrance. (250)  It is the latter that lets the ripples pass, visibly at least, down through history, affecting later generations in ways that may seem all out of proportion to the circumstances of any given battle.<br />In the end VDH's book is fascinating, but certainly is not as profound as some of his previous works.  His storytelling more than his thesis is what brings me to favor him with four stars.	2003-10-24
US	52942244	R24XOC65Z0QGW3	0375508260	649819248	Paris 1919: Six Months That Changed the World	Books	5	10	12	N	N	First-Rate History!	As the United States finds itself ever deeper in the Middle East morass, I continue my reading to find the roots of the turmoil that afflicts this region.  One trail took me back to a critical milestone: the reshaping of the Middle East's political landscape coming out of World War I.  Ms. MacMillan's book is an excellent primer on this seminal event in the twentieth century.  World War I was supposed to be the war that would end all wars.  Of course it didn't, and ironically nowhere could this be better presaged than in the Paris Peace Conference of 1919.<br />This book is a grand tour of the Peace Conference as well as much of the world in the Great War's aftermath.  Ms. MacMillan portrays not only the major combatants, but also many of the lesser combatants and various ethnic groups in a grand arc from the Seine to the Euphrates.  Her story is thoroughly researched and rich in detail, not only about people and events, but also the cultural, diplomatic, and historical ambience.  Her writing is crisp and clear, factual and anecdotal, and sobering and invigorating.  The lynchpins of her tale are the personal involvement of Georges Clemenceau (Prime Minister of France), David Lloyd George (Prime Minister of Great Britain), and Woodrow Wilson (President of the United States) -- their personalities and interactions as well as how they personally shaped the outcome of the conference.  A wide variety of other extant and future leaders are included, but none had the same overall influence and power as these three.<br />Through her writing one senses what it must have been like in Paris.  It was more than a peace conference; it was the proverbial house upon the hill lit brightly by the hopes and dreams of millions of people weary of war and desperate for a future wherein nations and peoples would respect each other and commune via the rule of law.  It was one of those singular moments in history where hope and faith struggled to rise above the loss, destruction, and miseryleft in war's wake.  <br />Unfortunately the moment passed.  The human spirit was overcome by human frailties such as fear, greed, nationalism, and avarice.  The best of hope succumbed to the bitterness of power politics.<br />Nowhere was this more apparent than in the Middle East.  There the perceived national interests of France and Britain were not grounded in demographics, but rather were steeped in spheres of influence, oil, and balance of power.  President Wilson's attempts to resolve their conflicting strategies didn't help.  In one example that reaches us today, \\"It never seems to have occurred to [Wilson] that a single unit did not make much sense...In 1919 there was no Iraqi people; history, religion, geography pulled the people apart, not together.  Basra looked south, toward India and the Gulf; Baghdad had strong links with Persia; and Mosul had closer ties with Turkey and Syria.  Putting together the three Ottoman provinces and expecting to create a nation was, in European terms, like hoping to have Bosnian Muslims, Croats, and Serbs make one country.\\" (397)  Alas, we see this today, but few saw it at the time.  Combine this with similar conundrums in the region and then leaven the mixture with Britain's confusing signals concerning a Jewish homeland in Palestine vis-à-vis Arab aspirations, and we can see the flame growing under today's cauldron.<br />The turmoil in the Middle East was paralleled in other regions.  Ms. MacMillan weaves together several such stories, from the break-up of Austria-Hungary, to the mad scrabbling between the Balkan nations; from the emergence of Turkey from the ruins of the Ottoman Empire, to the conundrum that was Germany - worn out and overcome, but not defeated.  The war left a patchwork quilt of victors and fledgling new and aspiring nations and peoples.  Interspersed were the vanquished.  Old problems were torn away, only to be replaced by a host of new ones.<br />The United States' role at the Peace Conference was disappointing.  We were highly regarded by all, and our support for one peace objective after another was often sought, especially by various ethnic groups.  But, as Ms. MacMillan observes, \\"Power involves will, as the United States and the world are discovering today: the will to spend, whether money or lives.  In 1919 that will had been spent in Europe.  The leaders of France, Britain and Italy no longer had the capacity to order their peoples to pay a high price for power.  Their armed forces were shrinking day by day and they could not rely on the soldiers and sailors who were left.  Their taxpayers wanted an end to expensive foreign adventures.  The United States alone had the capacity to act, but it did not see itself as having that role, and its power was not yet great enough.  It is tempting to say that the United States lost an opportunity to bend Europe to its will before the competing ideologies of fascism and communism could take hold.  That is to read back into the past what we know about American power after another great war.  In 1945, the United States was a superpower and the European nations were much weakened.  In 1919, however, the United States was not yet significantly stronger than the other powers.  The Europeans could ignore its wishes, and they did.\\" (Introduction, xxx)<br />This is part of a great historical irony - a reversal of positions wherein today the US is chastised for being too aggressive in world affairs versus 1919 when so many around the world looked to the US for leadership and its populist involvement only to find us slowly withdrawing behind our oceans.<br />The Paris Peach Conference set much of the stage for much of what happened in the ensuing decades.  Lessons abound.  This is first-rate history, by a first-rate storyteller.  It is interesting, sweeping, and relevant to us today.   Bravo, and a resounding five stars.	2003-10-21
US	52942244	RZ9Q0D0ZA589L	0374179395	35301100	First Great Triumph: How Five Americans Made Their Country a World Power	Books	5	16	18	N	N	History at Its Best!	This is history at its best -- well written, thoroughly researched, and interesting to read.  The principle characters come alive.  It's an ambitious undertaking, too, to describe this chapter in our history.  Zimmermann not only discusses the emergence of the United States onto the world scene as a major player, but also interweaves five amazing men: John Hay, Alfred Thayer Mahan, Elihu Root, Henry Cabot Lodge, and Theodore Roosevelt.  I was familiar with them, but he makes them real.  You get into their point of view, their successes and foibles, and their backgrounds and their struggles.<br />I had wanted to read about World War I and the formation of the Arab states as we know them today.  Paris 1919 would be a good start.  I decided to read this first, though, as a run-in to Paris 1919.  What I discovered is that not only did this period posture the US as a world player, but also the striking similarity between the Spanish-American War and the War in Iraq.  More about that later.<br />Zimmermann begins by describing the lives, philosophies, and contributions of these five men whose contributions were pivotal.  These are not definitive biographies, to be sure, but rather a series of monographs that are delightful in their brevity and depth.  The rest of the book provides an excellent history of the war with Spain -- going into detail about Cuba, Puerto Rico, and the Philippines -- along with our seizure of Guam and Hawaii.  Along the way he touches on a wide variety of other persons, US and foreign.<br />The only downside is the lack of maps.  They would help substantially, but their absence does not unduly detract from the strengths of the book.  For example, there is fascinating detail regarding treaty negotiations with Spain and the debate within the US Senate for ratification.  Zimmermann even gives insight into personalities in the Spanish ruling circles and how they affected Spanish actions.<br />There were a variety of reasons for the US to expand its thinking past its ocean boundaries.  Quoting Mahan, \\"[our] growing production, public sentiment, a geographic position between two old worlds and two oceans, the growth of European colonies in the Pacific, the rise of Japan, and the peopling of the American West with men favoring a strong foreign policy\\" (115).<br />I always thought imperialism was driven more by economic motives (markets) and diplomatic and military motives (national power).  Imperialism is not necessarily aimed just at less developed societies, but also between Western and regional powers.  Still, I can see Zimmermann's point when he says, \\"Such a cultural atmosphere was extremely conducive to imperialist initiatives, because imperialism -- like Anglo-Saxonism, social Darwinism, and manifest destiny -- was also based on the principle of racial inequality\\" (37).  Maybe \\"also\\" is the key word.  Having said that, he also makes the point, \\"Three of America's earlier wars had been fought for specific principles: political liberty in 1776, freedom of the seas in 1812, and preservation of the Union in 1861.  The Spanish-American War was the first in which Americans were activated in large part by the way a foreign government treated its subjects\\" (251).<br />This is where Zimmermann's analysis gets quite interesting for today's environment.  Much has been made recently comparing the War in Iraq and where it may lead us to Vietnam and the Persian Gulf War.  In reading this book you come to find out that the true comparison is the Spanish-American War.  The parallels are numerous.  Here are a few examples:  <br />\\"...left unresolved [was] the crucial issue of who would inherit Cuba from Spain.  Would it be the United States or the Cuban people?  That fatal ambiguity has scarred American relations with Cuba ever since\\" (264).<br />\\"The Spanish had courage, but not the kind of courage that leads to victory\\" (283).<br />\\"If we turn this war, which was heralded to the world as a war of humanity, in any sense intoa war of conquest, we shall forever forfeit the confidence of mankind\\" (337).<br />\\"The first years of American occupation of the Philippines were marked by full-scale war...`The people whom we liberated down there have turned against us.'  From the outbreak of violence...it took the US more than three years to subdue what was to the Americans an insurrection and to the Filipinos a war for independence.  At its height the American troop presence constituted three-quarters of the entire US Army.  Casualties on both sides far exceeded the killed and wounded in the three weeks of fighting in Cuba.\\"  (386)<br />\\"'To leave the islands at this time would mean that they would fall into a welter of murderous anarchy.  Such dereliction of duty on our part would be a crime against humanity.'\\"  (404)<br />Zimmermann's insights go on and on.  There is much that is different between then and now, but it's clear that the Spanish-American War has much for us to learn in our current foreign paths.<br />Zimmermann sums up his message of his book the best.  \\"In retrospect, the twentieth century, for all the brilliance of its intellectual and technological accomplishments, was a time of violence and horror unprecedented in world history...The threat posed by Hitler's Germany became the major international preoccupation from 1933 until the German defeat in 1945.  The threat of Stalin's Russia succeeded it as the main concern.  Neither challenge could have been dealt with successfully without the full engagement of the US.  The imperial initiation at the end of the nineteenth century had prepared Americans for the great power role that, in the twentieth century, only they could play.\\" (482)<br />This is one of the best accounts of US history that I've read.  I'd give it six stars if I could.	2003-09-08
US	52942244	R133KUHN4R6C7	0743435672	2067533	Resurgence	Books	3	2	3	N	N	Entertaining, But That's As Far As It Goes	This was a mildly entertaining book.  Sheffield places the action at an indeterminate time in the future at the interstellar level, with travel between our Orion arm of the Milky Way galaxy and the neighboring Sagittarius arm.  He's big on aliens (although he doesn't go overboard) and on robotics.  He does not show his strength in science in this novel.<br />The action centers on an ancient, largely unknown super race called the Builders that left a large number of enigmatic artifacts through the Orion arm.  These artifacts date back some two million years.  The Builders themselves have never been encountered, and are theorized to be either extinct or to have moved on to some other destiny.  A scratch, motley team of somewhat disconnected characters is pulled together following the arrival of a ship from the Sagittarius arm.  The ship contained two kinds of aliens, all of whom were dead.  The team is asked to go to the Sagittarius arm to discover the aliens' purpose.  There they find a huge, and growing, dead zone that stems either from the Builders or yet another super race.<br />The action is good, and the story flows.  There was nothing that leapt out at me begging my interest other than just the general unfolding of events.  It was fun to read, but will not leave much of a mark - certainly not like some of Sheffield's other books.  Three stars, and that's being generous.	2003-08-11
US	52942244	R3W2OV121LPD9F	0380977761	418035057	Abraham: A Journey to the Heart of Three Faiths	Books	3	14	14	N	N	Mildly Interesting	As I continue my reading to gain better insight into today's conflict with Islamists, I felt it would help to delve into the common roots of Judaism, Christianity, and Islam.  This book came into view and looked to be a good step in that direction.  In fact, it appears to be the very reason Feiler wrote it.  \\"My experience in the region persuaded me that it's possible-maybe even necessary-to gain insight into a contemporary situation by turning away from the present and looking back to its historical source.  Especially in matters of faith, even the most modern act is informed by centuries of intermingled belief, blood, and misunderstanding.  And in that conflagration, as it has for four millennia, one name echoes behind every conversation.  One figure stands at the dawn of every subsequent endeavor.  One individual holds the breadth of the past-and perhaps the dimensions of the future-in his life story.  Abraham.\\" (9)<br />This book is part travelogue and part self-awakening.  Feiler explores the role of Abraham-part myth, part oral history-in the growth of the three great monotheistic religions.<br />He uses an airy, enthusiastic style that bespeaks wonderment and excitement at every step of the way.  Unfortunately, Feiler often displays a pendulum-like tendency towards hyperbole that is distracting.  For example, he refers to Abraham at one point as \\"the Albert Einstein of his day\\" (28).  In another section he compares Abraham's life to a three-act Hollywood play (70).  Incredibly, he goes on to say God was acting \\"against [His] natural instincts\\" in this play.  This is an amazing statement that bespeaks a presumed, but inappropriate, familiarity with Him.  Sometimes I got the sense that Feiler just likes to hear himself talk.<br />Still, there are interesting insights along the way-the root meaning of \\"Arab\\" (21) and the symbolism of male circumcision (68), for example.  Also, Muhammad's vision (Islam) stems directly and deliberately from the Jewish interpretation of biblical history (76).  Particularly interesting, \\"Abraham, I was discovering, is not just a gentle man of peace.  He's as much a model for fanaticism as he is for moderation...[B]y elevating such conduct to the standard of piety, he stirred in his descendants a similar desire to lash out, to view pain as an arm of belief, and to use brutality to advance their vision of a divine-centered world.\\" (108).  His discussion helps to explain religious fanaticism and the willingness of some (unfortunately, far too many these days) for martyrdom.<br />Feiler touches on the roots of the enmity between the followers of these religions, but I found his discussion lacking.  A few examples pretty well sum up his view: Early, proto-Christians saw the Jews as having \\"corrupted the Temple...abandoned the poor, and blasphemed the laws of purity\\" (138).  \\"Church fathers saw in the misfortune of the Jews more evidence of their own triumph and a vindication for their claim to be the true kingdom of Israel\\" (152).  \\"Pious Muslims continue to see the Koran as the unfiltered word of God, which is one reason for the devotion it elicits.  There is no third-person narrative in the Koran.  God speaks directly in all of the text's six thousand two hundred verses\\" (165).  \\"Islamic midrash, know as tafsir, is considered harsher toward Jews than toward Christians, largely because of the political circumstances during the prophet's lifetime\\" (174).  \\"For Muslims...Islam didn't supersede Christianity and Judaism, it preceded them.  Islam, in fact, was the faith of Abraham, which his descendants twisted for their own purposes\\" (176).  He provides glimmers of the underlying friction, but they don't go far enough.<br />I had flirted with the idea that since Abraham was the common source of these three great religions, perhaps he could also be their source of reconciliation-a common bond that could serve as a rallying point.  If he could be, this book doesn't hold out much optimism.<br />Overall Ifound this book only somewhat enlightening, but certainly not to the degree for which I had hoped.  It comes across more as a journal of self-discovery punctuated with exposition of the religious meaning or tradition of various aspects of \\"Abrahamism\\" to flesh out a book.  I'm pleased to have read it, but with an ever-growing reading backlog, had I known more about this book beforehand I would have passed it by.I found this book only somewhat enlightening, but certainly not to the degree for which I had hoped.  It comes across more as a journal of self-discovery punctuated with exposition of the religious meaning or tradition of various aspects of \\"Abrahamism\\" to flesh out a book.  I'm pleased to have read it, but with an ever-growing reading backlog, had I known more about this book beforehand I would have passed it by.	2003-07-11
US	52942244	R1JI2JWVJ7B83G	0760311161	681962711	Eastern Front: The Unpublished Photographs 1941-1945	Books	5	13	15	N	N	More Than First Meets the Eye	Every now and then a book comes along that is unheralded and, if advertised at all, is done so only in esoteric publications.  This is just such a book.  It is a publishing diamond in the rough.<br />As the title indicates, this is a collection of photos &quot;previously unpublished, from a former Soviet archive.&quot;  While I'm no expert, I have been through many books and articles about the Eastern Front, and I don't recall seeing any of these before.  Some photos appear to have been staged (not that there's anything wrong with that), but most appear to have been spontaneous.  The photos span the entire Front during the whole of the war, almost entirely at the tactical level.  <br />While the depth and breadth of the collection is impressive, the book's greatest strength lies in the captions that accompany each photograph.  These are comprehensive, interesting and surprisingly full of detailed nomenclature of Soviet and German aircraft, weapons, vehicles and equipage.  Some of the captions appear to be literal translations from Russian, and the resulting odd phraseology lends an unexpected authenticity.<br />The accompanying text provides a concise, well written, summary-level description of the course of the Russo-German war that puts the photos in each section into context.  There are no maps, orders of battle, or other accouterments of military histories, but the text hangs together well and provides an excellent primer on this titanic struggle.  Even for the more seasoned reader, insights abound that I have not seen in other such collections, such as the roll of Ultra and the Lucy spy network in Soviet preparations to meet the Wehrmacht's massive offensive towards Kursk in 1943, or the interwoven statistics throughout the book that quantify manpower and weaponry and thereby provide some sense of the opposing forces' capabilities.<br />This is not the definitive collection of photos, but it fits well with other albums and thus provides a valuable addition to one's WWII library.  Whether used as a coffee table book or for more serious perusal, it will provide hours of enjoyable reading.  Highly recommended.	2003-07-07
US	52942244	R18QGLS4G5PJ61	0670030414	435949952	The Fall of Berlin 1945	Books	4	7	10	N	N	The Underside of War	This is not a typical analysis of a military campaign.  While there is some of the \\"why\\" behind specific operations, this actually is more of a social analysis.  In fact, with Beevor's extensive use of interviews, published and unpublished historical records, and personal memoirs, it has the feel of an oral history.<br />The text reads easily.  The maps are adequate, but certainly could have been better.  They were light on topography, contained almost no detail on militarily significant features actual and potential, and suffered from lack of operational detail such as depictions of rates of advance.  A detailed order of battle would have been great, as would an appendix with relevant bios of key commanders and leaders.  As is, the reader must construct these along the way.  Granted this is not meant to be a tactical or operational analysis, but they would have been most helpful nonetheless.<br />Beevor does not glorify war - just the opposite.  More than anything I've read in quite a while, Beevor depicts the brutality, horror, and suffering of whole populations caught up in a savage military conflict - one that for the Germans, military and civilian alike, had passed completely out of their control.<br />After what the Soviet Union endured during the Axis campaigns and occupation in 1941-1944, the capture of Berlin was the capstone of a \\"payback\\" campaign that was unparalleled in its ferocity and cost to both sides.  Reduced to barbaric living conditions, trying to maintain some sense of normalcy (perhaps as a defense mechanism) while their world daily crumbled around them, fearful of the approaching Red Army but prevented by their own fanatics from escaping, the eastern Germans were caught in a caldron of their leaders' making.<br />Some feel that Beevor dwells too much on Red Army rape and brigandage, but that's a necessary backdrop without which the book would lose its purpose.  How else to explain the German citizenry's visceral dread of the Red Army's approach?  The Red Army's conduct (which included acts of integrity and mercy as well), while generally horrific, was not surprising.  You can't get a feel for the depths to which both sides had sunk without understanding these passions.  <br />Still, one is left with a question.  Why did the Germans (civilians, Wehrmacht, Kriegsmarine, and Luftwaffe, if not the SS, Gestapo, and senior Nazi Party officials) fight so doggedly in the end when the outcome at this point should have been crystal clear?  Was it the effectiveness of Goebbels' propaganda - the waning hope that either Hitler would pull off a miracle of some kind, or the Western Allies really would eventually wake up to the Red menace?  Was it racial hatred?  Was it Hitler's grip on their collective psyche, or did cultural egotism cloud their judgment?   To some extent it was all of these, but even more so it was born of fear.  Beevor doesn't address this question, at least not directly.  I liken it to a drowning man grasping at anything that might keep him afloat.  The skein of fear that ran through the Nazi government's rank and file, the Wehrmacht, and the German people drove them to believe that if they fought hard enough, if they carried on with their daily lives as much as possible, if they just believed deeply enough, that salvation might yet be at hand and the horror would go away.  Of course, it wasn't to be.<br />Let me add that there is more to the book.  He provides some sense of the strategic considerations on the part of the Soviets and the US and Great Britain in the final days of the war in Europe.  Also, Beevor touches on the Byzantine machinations of the two totalitarian regimes by his descriptions of the power plays and internal politics within Hitler's and Stalin's elites.  This isn't surprising on the Soviet side, as final victory and a post-war landscape loomed large.  It's problematic with the Nazis, where bureaucratic infighting and competition were in full swing right up to the end, well beyond the point where the demands of party and personal survival should have completely crowded out these urges.  Go figure.<br />In sum, Beevor masterfully brings out the human side of war with grim pathos, desperate heroism, and the innate desire for survival.  This is a sobering read, highly recommended for what it says about the Eastern Front in World War II, war in general, and the human mystery.	2003-07-07
US	52942244	RYWO1CMFD3PVI	0312872186	42121260	Saturn	Books	2	25	27	N	N	Say It Ain't So, Ben!	This book is a disappointment.  I don't know if Bova is running out of good plots, he was hurried, or it was just a fluke, but this book doesn't deliver.<br />Part of Bova's planetary series, it continues a background situation of an Earth under the rule of fundamentalist regimes that have little use for scientific study and even less for individual freedoms.  He also brings back a couple of characters, albeit he focuses his story on new ones.<br />The basic premise is that a huge spacecraft the size of a large asteroid containing a self-sustaining, essentially closed-loop ecosystem along with 10,000 people \\"serving a cadre of scientists\\" journeys to Saturn for extended study.  The habitat is named Goddard.  The principal experiment is kept from the inhabitants though.  It is \\"to test the ability of a self-contained community to survive and develop a viable social system of its own.\\" <br />During the 25-month voyage a villainous set of ringers planted by a fundamentalist group back on Earth plot to seize political control of the habitat.  This group is sophomorically patterned after Hitler and his closest henchmen in the budding Nazi Party.  Bova has never been strong on character development, but this group is more shallow than usual.<br />Bova's strength has always been the science he tantalizingly weaves into his stories.  Unlike his previous books, there really is precious little science in this one, fiction or otherwise.  It is more a study in seizing political power via subterfuge than it is about science.  Even the life form in the Saturnian system is undeveloped and seemingly included merely as a sop to his sci fi fans.<br />In this book his strength is the continuation of several themes that together form the core of this series: outcasts beginning a new life on new worlds, the ubiquity of life within our Solar System, and the benefits of nano-technology if used properly.  Another theme from the last few books carried over into this one is that religious fundamentalism can be oppressive and regressive.  The overarching message from this series is that there is plenty to do and see, to explore and colonize, within the Solar System while we figure out how to get to the stars.  Also, the Solar System may provide a safety valve for overpopulation and the adventurous spirit.<br />While the messages are positive, the book overall is flat and uninspired.  If you're a real Bova fan, like me, then you'll want to go through it anyway in anticipation that it will set the stage for later books in the series.  If you're not yet a Bova fan, read his other books first.	2003-07-07
US	52942244	R2Y0GDPT3YAEKZ	0393046869	699211673	Embracing Defeat: Japan in the Wake of World War II	Books	5	12	12	N	N	A Precedent for Today	Dower describes the pathos of Japan's defeat and its difficult post-war journey to remake itself and its society - the backside of WWII in the Pacific.  In the 1860's Emperor Meiji embarked upon a similar, but deliberate, journey.  In this case, it was ignominiously thrust upon the Japanese.  Dower uses a prodigious amount of detail and cultural insight.  Deeply researched and well written, it's far ranging and often poignant as it captures the post-surrender chaos and struggles.  It is also pragmatic and evenhanded.<BR>The opening chapters are a tour of a defeated nation.  The Japanese, a once proud people, were utterly crushed by the Allies.  In the war's waning days they were clearly on their last legs, and like a boxer staggered by an overwhelming opponent, they were carrying on the fight by sheer will.  \\"In this all-consuming milieu, the immediate meaning of 'liberation' for most Japanese was not political but psychological.  Surrender...liberated them from death.  Month after month, they had prepared for the worst; then, abruptly, the tension was broken.  In an almost literal sense they were given back their lives.  Shock bordering on stupefaction was a normal response to the emperor's announcement, usually followed quickly by an overwhelming sense of relief.  But that sense of relief all too often proved ephemeral.  Exhaustion and despair followed quickly in its train - a state of psychic collapse so deep and widespread that...[t]he populace, it was said, had succumbed to the 'kyodatsu condition.'\\" (88-89)<BR>Our occupation was quintessentially American with a missionary zeal.  \\"For all its uniqueness of time, place, and circumstance - all its peculiarly 'American' iconoclasm - the occupation was in this sense but a new manifestation of the old racial paternalism that historically accompanied the global expansion of the Western powers.  Like their colonialist predecessors, the victors were imbued with a sense of manifest destiny.  They spoke of being engagedin the mission of civilizing their subjects.  They bore the burden (in their own eyes) of their race, creed, and culture.  They swaggered, and were enviously free of self-doubt.\\"  (211-212).  Dower includes a fascinating discussion of an interesting dilemma facing America: how to break away from the racist vilification of the Japanese by wartime propaganda and now show that the Japanese could measure up to sustaining a democratic form of government.<BR>For the most part this book is exactly as the title states: how Japan embraced defeat.  There is precious little directly about how the US administered Japan.  It is not devoid of it, however.  There is fascinating insight on how and why MacArthur used the Emperor's position during the war and during the Occupation (see chapter 7, especially 282-283 and 286).  In the days immediately following surrender, \\"An alien from another planet...might easily have concluded that Emperor Hirohito had ascended the throne in August 1945 just in time to end a terrible war, and that no one's feelings other than his mattered\\" (287).  Also, one gets a sense of the breadth and depth of the American occupation and the immensity of MacArthur from the discussion of SCAP's censorship policies.<BR>The discussion about the Tokyo war crimes trials is also quite illuminating.  \\"[The proceedings] called attention to the fact that the recent war in Asia had taken place not among free and independent nations, but rather on a map overwhelmingly demarcated by the colors of colonialism...The tribunal essentially resolved the contradiction between the world of colonialism and imperialism and the righteous ideals of crimes against peace and humanity by ignoring it.  Japan's aggression was presented as a criminal act without provocation, without parallel, and almost entirely without context.\\" (470-471).  The trials did produce one star - the Indian Justice Rodhabinod Pal (one of only two Asians on the 11-justice Allied tribunal).  He had harsh things tosay about the way the Allies, and in particular the US, prosecuted the war (for example, \\"in the war in Asia the only act comparable to Nazi atrocities was perpetrated by the leaders of the United States\\" in their decision to use nuclear weapons (473-474) - events still pregnant with controversy).  He also viewed as hypocritical the Allies' indignation over Japan's aggressive aggrandizement, as their militant expansion was characterized.  While I disagree, clinging to my sense of Western values, I can see how those on the receiving end of the West's moral largesse could embrace his argument.<BR>In the months preceding the war in Iraq members of the Bush Administration reportedly were reading this book for pointers.  (The extended quote from Bonner F. Fellers on 282-283 could have been written in 2003 for Ba'athist Iraq rather than in 1944 for Imperial Japan.)  There are parallels between the two conflicts, to be sure.  An obvious similarity is the US's role in post-war Iraq.  \\"From start to finish, the United States alone determined basic policy and exercised decisive command over all aspects of the occupation\\" (73).  It will be the same in Iraq vis--vis the other Coalition powers, not to mention the UN.  An obvious dissimilarity is the situation after hostilities ended.  Total war left the Japan and the Japanese devastated.  Iraq was the opposite.  This is the first time in history, as far as I know, that an invading force toppled a regime with minimal death and destruction of the civilian populace and the nation's infrastructure.  <BR>In the end, this book promises hope.  As we look towards an uncertain future with anti-Americanism growing and our War on Terror stretching in front of us indefinitely, we can draw hope from WWII-era Japan.  Here was a nation with virulent militarism playing the cultural and race card.  We destroyed them and they eventually became fast allies, even if born only of convenience.  So it will be, hopefully, in Iraq; maybe (sans the hostilities) in dar al-Islam in general.  We've done it before; and for all of our mistakes then and to come, we can do it again.	2003-04-28
US	52942244	R1ZZOTHMHT8PGT	019513513X	938252520	The Emergence of Everything: How the World Became Complex	Books	5	52	60	N	N	Not light, but definitely worth reading!	This is a relatively small book with a huge message.  It deals with complex, sophisticated theories - some explained clearly; others such as the emergence of metabolism, not so clearly despite Dr. Morowitz's efforts.  It is written at a scholarly level - at least at the undergraduate level - as evidenced, for example, by his syntax and the technical lexicon he employs, often without definition.<BR>Dr. Morowitz's premise is that at the dawn of the 21st century \\"we now see the world through the fresh perspective and understanding of the computer revolution and the study of complex systems...[and] this new mode of thinking has begun to develop an exciting explanatory concept designated emergence, which develops previously unrealized ways of deepening our understanding of the past eons and illuminates how the universe, after a long and complex 12-billion-year trajectory from the Big Bang, has given rise to the human mind and modern man\\" (pg. 16).  Classical science is based on reductionism and theory formation that work their way back up to the world of observation.  I disagree from the review from Scientific American that emergence is the opposite of reductionism; rather, emergence supplements and complements reductionism, taking it to a new level.  It essentially is the realization - the study - that the whole is often greater than the sum of the parts (pg. 23); that is, the system or process that emerges is something more than would have been expected by the study of the constituent parts.  <BR>Dr. Morowitz selected 28 examples of \\"observed instances that have emergence in common but vary over an enormous range...selected to form an almost linear chronological sequence from the beginning of the universe we now occupy toward a conscious grasping for the future, a search for spirit, or something in that domain\\" (pg. 25) - in other words, a grand tour from the beginning of our universe towards what our species is to become.  This is a heady undertaking, to be sure, andDr. Morowitz is up to the task.  <BR>He first steps through the 28 examples ever so briefly in order to provide an advance summary.  He then takes us through them in more detail with a chapter devoted to each.  Some are straightforward and easy to grasp, such as numbers 3/the emergence of stars and 4/the periodic table; but others are complex and abstruse, such as numbers 10/cells with organelles and 11/multicellularity.  He provides plenty of supplemental reading along the way with suggestions at the end of each chapter.<BR>What we see from his 28 groupings is that existence, as we know it, stretching from the Big Bang into the future as far as our minds can visualize, has been and continues to be one continuous emergence - what one might call a mega-emergence.  We can segment it however we like (he segments it 28 ways), but it doesn't change the fact that from the Big Bang there is no known way to predict what has come to be and what is yet to come.<BR>While some of the concepts are difficult to grasp, Dr. Morowitz is still a delight to read.  He uses language wonderfully - precise, concise, and descriptive.  Take for example, \\"Toward the end of the accretion period, the Earth was still occasionally subject to large meteoritic impacts that boiled away the oceans into cloud layers that subsequently precipitated\\" (pg. 70), or \\"Among the reptiles of the Pennsylvania Age of the upper Paleozoic, courtship ritual and sexual selection emerged...[which] was the beginning of a type of behavior that culminated in the dramas of Shakespeare\\" (pg. 125).  Cool.<BR>He weaves a great thread about the development of animals through numbers 13/animalness, 14/chordateness, 15/vertebrates, 16/crossing the geospheres - from fish to amphibians, and 17/reptiles.  (\\"Geospheres\\"?  That's number 10.)  After he discusses the emergence of 18/mammals, but before he moves on to 19/higher mammals he sets the stage by discussing the definition of species and the concepts of niches and the principle of competitive exclusion.  He applies the latter to human social behavior as one basis for cultural and ethnic friction, but with a twist.  \\"In a battle between hominid species, the victors kill the vanquished.  In battles between hominid races, the victors breed with the vanquished.  The difference is a flow of genes between the groups.\\" (pg. 153.)  From there he finishes with 23/toolmaking, 24/language, 25/agriculture, 26/technology and urbanization, 27/philosophy, and 28/the spirit.<BR>Where does he see this thread taking humanity?  \\"Two new futuristic views have developed in recent years.  The first of these argues that carbon-based life will be the precursor of silicon-based life that, because of potentially superior intelligence, will ultimately take over, with humans either eliminated or in a secondary role.  [Perhaps this is where the concept for the Wachowskis' The Matrix originated?]  ...The second futuristic view is a world in which genetic engineering is used for us to become the race of hominids we want to be.\\" (pg. 177.)  Dr. Morowitz opts for the latter.  \\"I assume that something new will emerge in human society, and it will present us with undreamed possibilities in science and the arts...There will be a new emergence, and we will play a part in what that emergence is.  That is our destiny.\\"  (pg. 178.)<BR>Dr. Morowitz has an amazing tale.  It's difficult to follow many of the details, but overall it is upbeat and optimistic.  Time will tell.  In the meantime, this is an excellent read if you want to start towards an understanding of the cutting edge of science, where it blends with religion and philosophy.	2003-04-22
US	52942244	R4QUYKA52N75Y	0765300648	959103132	Goliath	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Not All That It Could Be	The plot revolves around a super-submarine, the Goliath, whose advanced computer control systems become megalomaniacally self-aware.  The submarine had been commandeered by an idealistic bunch (prior to the start of the novel) that wants to achieve world peace through an impressive display of violence followed by nuclear intimidation on a worldwide scale.  Goliath has other ideas after it becomes sentient.  Like Alten's other books, the action is non-stop.  Unfortunately, it is also rather sophomoric and filled with larger-than-life characters that would be better suited to comic books.  It was fun on that level, but not the kind of hard sci-fi that I prefer.	2003-04-21
US	52942244	R3HN6VN5CBVR8X	0312874448	287097090	In the Country of the Blind	Books	2	5	7	N	N	Not Nearly the Story It Could Have Been	According to his Preface, this book is a repackaging of previous work: a serial and a separate novelette.  He should have left well enough alone.  The reason it \\"was somewhat overlooked when it appeared in 1990...\\" was not \\"...perhaps because it debuted as a paperback original,\\" but because it isn't as strong of a story as it could have been.<br />The basic premise -- predicting trends in human events and then acting upon those trends, is fascinating, as is the underlying theme of how historically-significant events can trace back to focal points that would become far more important than they seemed at the time.  The latter was the basis of James Burke's hugely successful Connections series.  But whereas Burke connected threads in history, Flynn's direction is deliberate social engineering -- predicting a trend, finding the focal point(s) where a doable nudge in a different direction should result in a completely different, predictable result, and then making that nudge.  You could drive human progress in any direction you want, either for benevolent reasons or otherwise, but in any case, amass a lot of money and power along the way.<BR>  <BR>I find a problem with this premise.  Flynn's cliology (as he dubs his social engineering process, drawing from Clio, the Greek Muse of history) just doesn't measure up - not in reality, not even to support a novel.  Flynn's cliology is fundamentally actuarial; i.e., predictions based on probabilities derived from intense statistical analyses.  He takes it several steps further with the various laws, models, and theories he explains in his appendix, \\"Introduction to Cliology.\\"  He blunts critics who might decry humans' free (i.e., independent variables) will as defying such predictability with examples such as life insurance actuarial tables.  These predict for the target population as a whole, not any given individual's death, but their inability to predict at the individual level does not lessen their accuracy and usefulness.I understand what he's trying to do, but I just can't get there.  The collective actions of whole populations - millions, if not billions of people, depending upon the target group - over time are just too complex to model.  Computational fluid dynamics would be child's play by comparison.  Moreover, it runs counter to emergence theory.<br />He does show human frailty in how cliology would sooner or later rob its practitioners of their humanity, especially if they are a secret cabal, which leads to another shortfall.  There are many secret cabals in on the action.  I lost track after five had been identified (by page 271, with another 200 pages to go).  Only a few played a direct role in the story, but all were there nonetheless.  Some were ignorant of the others, some were not; others had died out.  No telling how many more there might be since their existence could be predicted by cliologists.<br />This leads to yet another problem: operational security.  These secret groups that manipulated the path of human progress could be extensive in size as well as number.  The main group in the story was a coast-to-coast organization with dozens, if not scores, of people knowledgeable to some degree or another of its purpose.  The Manhattan Project, certainly among the most secret projects in nation's history (if not THE most secret) was comprised early on.  One has to wonder at the likelihood that these cabals could remain secret over time (well over a century in the book), especially since disgruntled members seemed to routinely split off.<br />Then there's the story's rhythm.  Sarah Beaumont, the protagonist, is larger than life -- too many skills, too perceptive, too calm and collected no matter the danger -- and overacted.  The book is too long-winded.  Flynn's character development is overkill.  He could have shaved 100 pages without harm to the storyline, starting with his flat, uninspired denouement.  Even his \\"Introduction to Cliology\\" essay could have been trimmed.  It was interesting at first, and appending it to the end of the novel should have been a nice technique, but it was tedious and by the time I got that far, my interest had flagged beyond the point of no return.<br />I've often wondered at turning points in history when events seem to inexplicably head off in a perpendicular (orthogonal) direction leading to subsequent events that the trend up to that point did not portend.  Take Hitler's decision to halt his ground units from smashing through to the Channel and instead left it to Goring's Luftwaffe to reduce the Allied beachhead around Dunkirk.  One can read about Hitler's rationale, but in retrospect it doesn't make sense.  What really drove him to that decision?  Similar situations abound in history.  Flynn missed a great opportunity to take the story in the direction of cliology being a battleground between nations, religions, and ideologies (as opposed to the freelance groups that form the heart of his book), wherein his main characters could get caught up in the intrigues and machinations as these groups fight each other for control of the future.<br />The book is not without interesting nuggets.  Again, his use of \\"historical turning points...[wherein] the events themselves were small -- few people involved -- but they had disproportionate consequences\\" (30) is fascinating.  The way in which he brought Sarah Beaumont into the story was ingenious (38).  His comparison of Lenin's Soviet Union with Henry Ford's corporation (29), if not unique, was new at least to me.  He has a fascinating discussion (189-193) of what a \\"fact\\" is and isn't, even applying Heisenberg's Uncertainty Principal to history (shades of John Lukacs, but used here as an anti-cliology argument).  These tidbits were the strength of the novel, but unfortunately were just too few in number.<br />In the end, this book just didn't deliver.  Firestar and Rogue Star had better story lines and are better written.  If you're a real fan of MichaelFlynn -- the type that just wants to read everything by him that you can get your hands on -- then have at it.  Otherwise, you might want to pass this one by.	2003-01-13
US	52942244	R3660OZCCB02BG	0374236437	707644275	Our Posthuman Future: Consequences of the Biotechnology Revolution	Books	4	4	7	N	N	Timely and Provocative	This is an exploration on several levels -- advances in biotechnology and where they are headed, and what it means to be human. While occasionally tedious, overall Fukuyama has an excellent writing style and coveys information well.<br />He starts by briefly examining George Orwell's 1984 and Aldous Huxley's Brave New World. He then explains, \\"The aim of [this] book is to argue that Huxley was right, that the most significant threat posed by contemporary biotechnology is the possibility that it will alter human nature and thereby move us into a \\"posthuman\\" stage of history.\\" (7)<br />For all of our diversity, humans share fundamental qualities. Aristotle and his students began the dialog about \\"the nature of human nature [which has continued] in the Western philosophical tradition right up to the early modern period, when liberal democracy was born.\\" (13). The Declaration of Independence captured the concept of shared human equality (albeit the concept was imperfectly applied in the Constitution). Fukuyama picks up the dialog, going beyond medical ethics to how advances in biotechnology may affect what it means to be human -- our humanness.<br />The book is in three parts. In the first part he runs the spectrum of biotechnology issues facing humanity, asking many intriguing questions along the way. He categorizes these issues as \\"the increasing knowledge about the brain and the biological sources of human behavior, neuropharmacology and the manipulation of emotions and behavior, the prolongation of life, and finally, genetic engineering.\\" (16). It is the latter that raises the most concern, that has huge moral implications, since it has the most potential to change human nature and brings with it the specter of eugenics -- originally a neutral term, but since the 1930s one that has taken on a dark, foreboding connotation.<br />He explains (101) the cause for worry. \\"It is...a fear that, in the end, biotechnology will cause us in some way to lose our humanity -- thatis, some essential quality that has always underpinned our sense of who we are and where we are going ...And what is that human essence that we might be in danger of losing? For a religious person, it might have to do with the divine gift or spark that all human beings are born with. From a secular perspective, it would have to do with human nature: the species-typical characteristics shared by all human beings qua human beings. That is ultimately what is at stake in the biotech revolution.\\" <br />The second part of the book \\"deals with the philosophical issues raised by an ability to manipulate human nature. It argues for the centrality of human nature to our understanding of right and wrong -- that is, human rights -- and how we can develop a concept of human dignity that does not depend on religious assumptions about the origins of man\\" (16). He discusses at length (chapter 7) Western humanistic philosophies and social theories about the nature of man that presuppose more versatility with these ideas than I possess. Noticeably, he puts less emphasis on the spiritual aspects of being human (in contrast, for example, to Dr. Martin Luther King in his meditations on \\"What is Man\\" and \\"Dimensions of a Complete Life.\\") In chapter 8 he defines what he means by human nature and in chapter 9, human dignity. The latter is \\"the idea there is something unique about the human race that entitles every member of the species to a higher moral status than the rest of the natural world\\" (160).<br />\\"We are thus brought back to the question of politics and political strategies. For if there is a viable concept of human dignity out there, it needs to be defended, not just in philosophical tracts but in the real world of politics, and protected by viable political institutions\\" (177). This is the topic of the third part of his book - how and where we decide to draw the line. He argues that this decision can only be made by \\"the democratically constituted political community, actingchiefly through their elected representatives\\" (186).<br />The scope of his research is enormous (much of it building on his previous work), and he has excellent insights. For example,<BR>· \\"If people get upset enough about genetic inequality, there will be two alternative courses of action. The first and most sensible would simply be to forbid the use of biotechnology to enhance human characteristics and decline to compete in this dimension. But the notion of enhancement may become too powerfully attractive to forego...At this point a second possibility opens up, which is to use that same technology to raise up the bottom\\" (158-159).<BR>· In his discussion of reductionism vs. complex systems theory (162-164) he explains how cosmology and particle physics, even the eventual discovery of a Grand Unified Theory, likely will be unable to predict with certitude how the known universe will continue to evolve.<BR>· He says (28), \\"Attacking the methodological credentials of people whose views one doesn't like and dismissing their work as \\"pseudoscience\\" is a convenient shortcut around arguing over substance.\\" Interesting comment in light of the current controversy surrounding the Raelian claim of having cloned humans for the first time.<BR>· \\"Human nature also serves to provide us with guidance as to what political orders won't work. Proper understanding of the contemporary evolutionary theory of kin selection, or inclusive fitness, for example, would have led us to predict the bankruptcy and ultimate failure of communism, due to the latter's failure to respect the natural inclination to favor kin and private property\\" (127).<br />In the end this is not only a primer on biotech issues, but a philosophical discussion of what it means to be human as well. While it's an evenhanded exploration, he shows a preference for caution and control. \\"...[I]t is time to move from thinking to acting, from recommending to legislating. We need institutions with real enforcement powers\\"(204). It's a complex book that is rewarding even if difficult to fully absorb (for me, in one reading anyway).	2003-01-05
US	52942244	R3IHL80ADGGW92	069103186X	415060536	On War and Leadership: The Words of Combat Commanders from Frederick the Great to Norman Schwarzkopf	Books	3	20	20	N	N	Good, but Could Have Been Better for Its Intended Purpose	A scholar with a military background, Connelly begins with an excellent thumbnail sketch of the changing nature of Western warfare over the past 250 years.  This sets up the bulk of the book, which is selected words of 20, primarily European and American, military leaders from the same period.  Each receives a separate chapter (except for Frederick the Great and Napoleon, who are combined), and each chapter starts with a short background on the leader.  These are what Connelly refers to as \\"muddy boots\\" leaders, and each was successful in so far as his combat operations were concerned.  He also concludes each chapter with an explanation of the importance to the field of leadership of that individual's ideas and methods.  Thus, he provides a brief, but adequate rationale for each leader included in the book.  His inclusion of T.E. Lawrence (Great Britain, World War I), Erich von Manstein (Germany, World War II) and Vo Nguyen Giap (Vietnam, French Indo China War and the War in Vietnam) were particularly excellent choices.  The others were certainly apropos to Connelly's purpose, except for Charles de Gaulle.  The rationale for including him escapes me.  The other leaders Connelly included are:<br />o William Tecumseh Sherman  (Union, American Civil War)<BR>o Thomas Jonathan \\"Sonewall\\" Jackson (Confederacy, American Civil War)<BR>o John Singleton Mosby (Confederacy, American Civil War)<BR>o Archibald Percival Wavell (Great Britain, World War II)<BR>o Erwin Johannes Eugen Rommel (Germany, World War II)<BR>o George S. Patton, Jr. (US, World War II)<BR>o Bernard Law Montgomery (Great Britain, World War II)<BR>o William Joseph Slim (Great Britain, World War II)<BR>o Joseph Warren \\"Vinegar Joe\\" Stilwell (American, World War II)<BR>o Matthew Bunker Ridgway (US, World War II and Korea)<BR>o Moshe Dayan (Israeli War for Independence)<BR>o Harold G. Moore (LZ X-Ray, Ia Drang Valley, Vietnam)<BR>o Nicholas F. \\"Nick\\" Vaux (Great Britain, Falklands War)<BR>o H. Norman \\"Stormin' Norman\\" Scwartzkopf (US, Persian Gulf War)<br />As you can see, he included small unit leaders (Mosby, Lawrence, Moore, and Vaux) rather than keying on just major commanders.  This provides a nice blend to the discussion and demonstrates that good leadership traits are much the same at all levels of command.  He might have commented on why some obvious choices were NOT included such as Zachary Taylor (US, War with Mexico), James Longstreet (Confederacy, American Civil War); or, for small unit actions (which may be more apropos today) Joshua Chamberlain (Union, American Civil War), Teddy Roosevelt (US, Spanish-American War), John Howard (Great Britain, Pegasus Bridge, Normandy, World War II), John Frost (Great Britain, Arnhem, World War II), William Orlando Darby (US, Rangers, World War II), or Robert Frederick (US, 1st Special Service Force, World War II).  Each of these men exercised great leadership ability and skill in training and preparation for combat and later in desperate fighting.  It might also be instructional to have provided a contrast with a few leaders of lesser caliber.<br />Connelly actually penned relatively little of the book.  Rather, as the title implies, most is taken from the words of the leaders themselves (memoirs, letters, diaries) or from those close to them.  His contribution is the choice of the leaders, choice of \\"their\\" material, and his set-ups and conclusions.  Sometimes he uses whole blocks of material without explaining why the particular passage is important.  The chapters are quite interesting reading on their own (especially the chapters on T.E. Lawrence and Harold Moore), and one can certainly draw conclusions about leadership, but I would have struggled to get full measure from them had I not read his final, Conclusions chapter first.<br />One point that isn't crystal clear is that leadership is a learned art.  There are natural leaders (charisma, for example, helps), but most successful leaders are students of leadership.  Moreover, the more you read about leadership, the more spins and nuances you see.  Much of what is written is just that: spin with an eye to selling a new book.  But in its essence, leadership is rather straightforward.  It's the implementation -- the practice of good leadership techniques -- that's the difficult part.<br />That's the key attribute in Cohen's book -- his summary in the Conclusion's chapter depicting the key traits of good leaders, supported by the descriptions of how each applied some or all of these traits.  In his summary they are:<br />o Lead in person<BR>o Lead from the front<BR>o Improvise according to the situation<BR>o Hold to unity of command<BR>o Take care of the troops<BR>o Take risks (calculatedly, not recklessly)<BR>o Prefer the offensive<BR>o Know the value of winning.<br />I don't take exception to this list, but I would add that these must be against a backdrop of a sound set of positive personal values, first among which is integrity.  <br />On balance, Cohen's book is a useful addition to one's library or reading list, whether you are military or civilian (each trait above has a corollary in civilian life), professional or amateur, or just enjoy reading about leadership or military history, but it could have been better for its intended purpose.	2002-12-09
US	52942244	R327EJPSTZOAO4	0743230493	5817625	Supreme Command: Soldiers, Statesmen, and Leadership in Wartime	Books	5	27	30	N	N	He Makes His Point, and a Good One It Is	Cohen's thesis is that wars cannot be left to generals.  Using four case studies involving successful heads of state who took an active role in their nations' wars (Abraham Lincoln, Georges Clemenceau, Winston Churchill, and David Ben-Gurion), he debunks the \\"normal theory of civil-military relations.\\"  That theory holds that once war is upon us, politicians must step out of the way and let the military take over and, unfettered, win it.  This view goes back at least to the American Civil War (for example, read the same admonition in Sheman's memoirs).  It became most fashionable in this country after the Vietnam War, when comparing it and Korea to civil-military relations during the two World Wars.<BR>I was skeptical.  Having fought in Vietnam and still a bit upset at our not having achieved victory (albeit still today I'm not sure what our goals were...ahh, but I get ahead of myself), and having ascribed that failure to this nation's civilian leadership, I, too, espoused this theory.  Cohen has turned me around.<BR>Cohen keeps a narrow focus: civil-military relations at the highest levels. Each case study deals with a head of state's involvement with the conduct of a war for national survival (in Lincoln's case, national unity).  He makes the point, \\"The odds in each of these cases were so finely balanced that leadership could and did make the difference.  Take away each leader, and one can easily imagine a very different outcome to 'his' conflict.\\"  In the process, he describes the leadership style that made these statesmen great:<BR> None dictated to subordinates.<BR> Each tolerated, even advanced, men who strongly disagreed with them.<BR> Intuition and judgment, based on an ability to observe, make sense of, and use a huge amount of information.<BR> An ability to understand the larger picture, yet master military details.<BR> Skilled communicators, deeply read.<BR> Moderation - the ability to discipline passions, and an understanding of when and how to counteract trends.<BR> Ruthlessness, with their nation's enemies as well as with \\"wavering allies or internal opposition.\\"<BR> Courage to see things as they are.<BR>In his closing chapters he compares these case studies (which are as interesting purely as readings in history as they are to build and support his thesis) with civil-military relations during the Vietnam War and the Persian Gulf War.  He shows that the Johnson Administration did, in fact, manage the Vietnam War, but in the wrong areas; moreover, the Johnson Administration abrogated its role by not defining the goal(s) of the conflict, not defining victory, and not providing adequate strategic guidance.  He faults the first Bush Administration for not becoming more involved with war planning and not providing sound strategic guidance.<BR>Cohen's is the quintessential Clausewitzian argument.  Clausewitz's most famous dictum is, \\"War is not a mere act of policy but a true political instrument, a continuation of political activity by other means.\\"  It's often read out of context and thus often misinterpreted as meaning that once war starts, politics ought to stop.  Actually, he explains,  \\"If war is part of policy, policy will determine its character...Policy is the guiding intelligence and war only the instrument, not vice versa.\\"  He goes on, \\"He who maintains, as is so often the case, that politics should not interfere with the conduct of a war has not grasped the ABCs of grand strategy.\\" <BR>There are other dimensions of civil-military relations not discussed by Cohen that have substantive impact on the battlefield and on victory or defeat.  There is the allocation of resources, human and materiel, between military and domestic uses (e.g., the manufacturing and agricultural bases), between the military departments, between naval forces and the merchant marine, availability of training land, force structure, recruiting and retention resources and limitations, etc.  Each is steeped in politics with profound consequences on the battlefield.  (For more insight, explore Joel R. Davidson's The Unsinkable Fleet and Peter R. Mansoor's The GI Offensive in Europe.)<BR>Lack of discussion of these and others is not a failure on Cohen's part.  He deliberately limited himself to one manageable dimension of civil-military relations.<BR>  It would have been instructive to see some contra-examples such as Ludendorff and Hindenburg in Imperial Germany in the latter stages of World War I or Hitler and Nazi Germany in World War II.  They weren't Western democracies, but they are at the other end of the spectrum where the military is the government and thus has no civilian counterbalance at all.  It would also have been instructive to include a case study on the Bay of Pigs and the Cuban Missile Crisis, contrasting the styles of Eisenhower and Kennedy, as would have been a case study on Clinton's response to Somalia, Yugoslavia, and Islamist terrorism.  Still, Cohen makes his case.<BR>In the end, this is also a book about Vietnam.  Cohen argues, \\"...the American politicians failed as war leaders in Vietnam...because they looked at the wrong details and drew the wrong conclusions...They did not test a strategy - a theory of victory as some have called it - against the realities of the field; they did not ask whether the organization at work had the right structures, the right tasks, and above all the right leaders.  They did not cross-examine, test, and probe their subordinates, and they did not force them into debates with other professionals who took a different view.\\"<BR>I used to believe that if one were to read only two books to understand the outcome of the Vietnam War, then read COL Harry G. Summers' On Strategy twice.  Now I would say, read Summers and Cohen.  There is tension between their theses, but close examination will reveal that they mesh and work well together.  <BR>The implications for the coming conflict in Iraq are obvious.  Cohen's thesis and support for that thesis help explain the debate inside the Bush Administration.  Our civilian leadership must drive what and how we do there and elsewhere in our War on Terror.  I hope the likes of COL David Hackworth pay attention.	2002-12-01
US	52942244	R1I4AJ5ZIO8F0Y	0312856393	947042753	Far Futures	Books	4	10	11	N	N	Grappling with the Ungraspable	Science fiction abounds with stories dealing with the great questions of how the known universe began and why we came to be.  There is a growing body of cosmological theory and evidence as well as religious belief upon which to base such stories.  Far Futures, though, deals with another set of great questions: humanity's ultimate destiny, and how it will all end.  These are not tackled nearly as often.<br />Benford has pulled together five novellas, all by first-rate science fiction writers, to provide different views.  Since this is truly the unknown, these are speculations of the highest order.  They must be read as much for their broad concepts as for their scientific, entertainment or literary value.  Their concepts are fascinating, to be sure, in particular Greg Bear's and Charles Sheffield's.  But by its very nature, this subject is beyond competent conjecture.  Nonetheless, this is a good read that gets one to thinking about the (as yet, at least) unknowable.	2002-11-29
US	52942244	RDB9P2KYTVVIV	0312876343	370216473	Dark as Day (Cold As Ice Book 2)	Books	5	13	13	N	N	Farfetched, but Immensely Entertaining	The sequel to Cold as Ice, Sheffield brings back one who is becoming one of the great characters of science fiction, Rustum \\"Bat\\" Battachariya, along with a whole host of new characters.  (He likely drew Bat's Puzzle Network handle, \\"Megachirops,\\" from \\"chiropter\\", a noun meaning any mammal of the order Chiroptera, comprising the bats.  Weighing in at 300 kilos or thereabouts, he definitely is \\"mega.\\")  Two of the new characters, Janeed Jannex, an orphan who has looked after her self-adopted \\"brother\\" (also an orphan) for almost her entire life, and Paul Marr, First Mate on the Outer System Line (OSL) Achilles, come together in a manner distinctly reminiscent of Ann Darrow (Fay Wray) and First Mate Jack Driscoll (Bruce Cabot) of the original, 1933 version of the movie King Kong.  <BR>While not without blemishes (such as putting the action a mere 95 years from now, much too soon for the technology and colonization described in the book to take place -- why, oh why, do sci fi authors insist on doing this?), the book is nonetheless brilliant in scope and effectively weaves together several plots lines and even a couple of subplots.  The gist of the story is how events slowly, but inexorably bring together a handful of people (well, maybe a couple of handfuls) from disparate walks of life and different corners of the Solar System to confront a danger from the past that threatens all life in the Solar System, human and otherwise.  Along the way Sheffield plays out storylines that held my interest completely, never wanting to put the book down.  Heck, anyone who can weave in the use of statistical mechanics as part of analytical prediction theory and keep my interest in the process...well, Sheffield is a master storyteller!  He even throws in some \\"SETI Cryptanalysis 101\\" for good measure.  He is fast carving out his place in the Sci Fi Hall of Fame.  A resounding 5 stars, along with a wish that a third sequel, to include the Bat, is in the offing.  (And with the Seine, aSolar System-wide computer super network being introduced here, there definitely is hope for a sequel!)	2002-11-29
US	52942244	R1PRXIAHM2KVTG	0671319523	14047076	Time Traders: The Time Traders & Galactic Derelict	Books	5	13	13	N	N	Still Strong After All These Years	A reprint of the 1958 edition, this was like finding an old friend.  I first read this in 1958 or 1959, when I was about 10 years old.  I remembered snippets of it ever since and wondered if I would ever come across it again.  The story is just as fresh as it was then.  Indeed, I looked for some disclaimer that it had been updated, but found none.  Other than the lack of scientific explanation underlying key aspects of the plot, thus dating its style somewhat, this was a remarkably prescient piece.  And far from sophomoric in the bad sense, it appeals to the kid still inside me. I enjoyed it as much now as I did when I was 10.  It has time travel, Russians, aliens, prehistoric tribes, space ships, personal struggle and triumph...what more can you want in a science fiction yarn?  From over 40 years ago, it still rates 5 stars!	2002-10-27
US	52942244	R2XIATF99VLD91	1888952857	990629349	Best Little Stories from World War II	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Light Reading at Its Best	This is a collection of 101 obscure stories (vignettes) from World War II, mostly anecdotal, human interest stories combed from a variety of sources.  They cover the full gamut of the war -- all theaters, all mediums.  One lesson to be drawn is that people will be people no matter what their circumstances.  An easy, entertaining read.  With each story standing alone, it's an excellent book for casual reading.	2002-10-27
US	52942244	R20SE7LT5AZ5IW	0921991568	728324776	Normandy 1944: German Military Organization, Combat Power and Organizational Effectiveness	Books	5	26	27	N	N	Will Appeal to the Serious Student	This is an excellent, albeit esoteric, treatise on German ground forces opposing the Allied campaign in Normandy.  It covers the period June 6 through August 22, 1944.  Geographically it covers the area delineated by the base of the Brittany peninsula, the Loire River, the line Tours - Vendome - Nogent le Routrou - l'Aigle - Lisieux, and the English Channel.  This was the scene of widespread desperate combat that ultimately broke the back of organized German resistance in France.   It is steeped in detail about the German forces -- not only their composition, but their status, capabilities, time on the battlefield, losses, and movements.  It presumes some prior knowledge of the campaign and the forces involved.  Much of it confirms conventional wisdom, but it is not without controversy.  For example, Zetterling strongly challenges the view that the Germans had numerical superiority and that it was only the inherent superiority of the Allied soldier and his massive weight of materiel that led to Allied victory.  He presents compelling evidence that in fact it was the Allies that had numerical superiority, in men, planes, tanks, artillery tubes, and so forth.  <BR>His order of battle information is amazing.  He includes non-divisional formations (including corps and army-level units) and an incredible amount of information on tank strength and losses for each unit, by type of tank.  The book also contains a excellent collection of photographs, tables, and organization charts.  If you're a wargamer or just into OB type of stuff, or just like a lot of detail on a pivotal World War II campaign, this book has it.  (You should also see his Kursk 1943 ~ A Statistical Analysis, written with Anders Frankson; Portland: Frank Cass Publishers, 2000.)	2002-10-27
US	52942244	R3EI0ZSVHSCSUB	0375412921	122896159	The Shield of Achilles: War, Peace, and the Course of History	Books	5	14	17	N	N	A Lot to Absorb, but Worth the Effort	This is a most impressive work. It is monumental -- intellectual, deep thinking, not light reading at all. Bobbitt starts with a premise with which I most heartily agree: humanity is entering a whole new era. He sees an evolution of states over the past millennium, each associated with a type of warfare and international environment, transitioning from one to the next due to an epochal war...this is a masterful work. Reading his words, listening to his thoughts, seeing how he structures his arguments, grasping the depth and breadth of his vision and how he pulls it all together into a single, coherent set of ideas, I am struck by the averageness of my intellect and almost overwhelmed by his.<BR>His is profound thinking with far-reaching implications. It strikes home in our post-9/11 awakening. (Its publication was coincidental.) It takes longer to read than its 800+ pages would indicate because one must often stop and ponder his words. If you are willing to take this book on, you will be well rewarded. A resounding 5 stars.	2002-10-27
US	52942244	R1JHVG5BR3DTOW	0395619076	518051880	World War II: The Best of American Heritage (American Heritage Library)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	More Light Reading at Its Best	This is a collection of 16 stories drawn from American Heritage magazine.  The writing is crisp and descriptive.  The authors are all top-rate and include the likes of Stephen Ambrose, Martin Blumenson, John Lukacs, and Stephen Sears himself, to mention a few.  The stories describe some of the key moments in the war, spanning all theaters and all mediums.  Informative and penetrating, each story is easily read in one sitting, even if you're a slow reader like me, which makes it an excellent book for casual reading.	2002-10-27
US	52942244	R2ESRUJL6HARPE	0300080301	888346679	Five Days in London, May 1940	Books	5	9	10	N	N	More Than the Title Suggests	This is a political history of a pivotal one-week period on the uphill side of World War II.  Filled with much detail drawn from contemporary accounts, it represents a huge amount of research.  It brims with interesting tidbits; You get a real sense of what went on at the highest level of British government in those dark, foreboding days when France was collapsing before the Nazi juggernaut and the BEF was falling back towards the Channel with nary a counter-punch.  If there is a weakness in this book, though, it is the implied presumption that the reader is already familiar with the key players.  >In the end, this is not a book just about Churchill (whom Lukacs clearly admires and, rightly so, finds truly heroic) or his stiffening of the British spirit.  It is also a book supporting a central theme in the worldview Lukacs developed over his career.    Lukacs holds that \\"Churchill understood something that not many people understand even now.  The greatest threat to Western civilization was not Communism.  It was National Socialism.  The greatest and most dynamic power in the world was not Soviet Russia.  It was the Third Reich of Germany.  The greatest revolutionary of the twentieth century was not Lenin or Stalin.  It was Hitler.  BR>This book is more than its title suggests.  More than just fine history, it is history with a message.  The last three pages in particular are worth the time it takes read the whole book.  I wonder if we in the West are not at such a juncture today.    Five stars for this one, Mr. Lukacs.	2002-10-07
US	52942244	R2S1MNUWPBSYWW	0060199733	242010890	Statecraft: Strategies for a Changing World	Books	5	35	38	N	N	A Marvelous Exposition of Her Worldview	This is a primer and a prescription for US and British foreign policy. It is one of the best books I've ever read. It reaches me and is in synch with how I view the world, albeit from a more professional, seasoned point of view.<BR>In a very real sense this book is aimed at America. It is brimming with enlightened pragmatism and compassionate realism. It fairly drips with levelheaded wisdom, running off of every page beginning with the first page of the Introduction. Thatcher takes an unassuming, almost motherly, perhaps too forgiving view of how the West let its guard down in the 1990s after the fall of the Soviet Union and the end of the Cold War.<BR>She is unabashedly anti-communist and a devotee of President Ronald Reagan. She considers him to have been \\"the supreme architect of the West's Cold War victory\\" (10). In fact, she dedicated her book to him, \\"To whom the world owes so much.\\" She believes \\"that Ronald Reagan and I spoke the same language (in every sense)\\" (7).<BR>She has a deep love of America -- a connection -- what she calls \\"a certain idea of America\\" (20). This stems from her \\"consciousness of the underlying commonalities of the 'English-speaking world' and of its values\\" as well as the uniqueness of America and the English roots of that uniqueness. There is \\"an important truth about America -- namely that it is the most reliable force for freedom in the world, because the entrenched values of freedom are what make sense of its whole existence\\" (23). She quotes often and liberally from the Declaration of Independence.<BR>Juxtaposed against this love for, and belief in, America is an overarching unilateralism and a resistance to political correctness. In this vein, she advises against making coalition-building a hard prerequisite. It depends on the situation, with America's best interests always paramount.<BR>She has a wonderfully easy, fluid style -- erudite without being ostentatious. She summarizes at the end of most sections with bulletized recommendations. These succinctly capture the framework of her worldview. Borne of experience, they are clear enough to serve the amateur strategist as well as the seasoned diplomat. She shares her view of the world by taking us on a tour through regions, countries, hot spots, and individuals, with penetrating analysis and personal anecdotes.<BR>We find, for example, that \\"China is one of two countries [to] have radically benefited in terms of the global power and importance from the end of the Cold War\\" (160), but the leadership in Beijing is fighting a delaying action. China is moving towards economic modernization, pulled inexorably by globalization. White it is a long way from becoming, and might never become, a Western-style democracy, it will become \\"at least a country whose population enjoy most of the benefits of freedom\\" (176). We will see a rising middle class, and the process will be facilitated by China's membership in the World Trade Organization. This can be seen in the experience of Hong Kong since transition. To maintain Hong Kong's economic vibrancy, Beijing cannot apply \\"coercive political measures.\\" The reunification of Hong Kong, it seems to me, may prove to be the turning point, or at least acceleration, to a real \\"great leap forward.\\"<BR>Her insights are deep and broad, covering the spectrum of historical, political, military, and economic considerations; in each case, from the international level to the local. She has a fundamental faith in democracy and capitalism, but with an acceptance and understanding of the strength and benefits of cultural diversity as democracy and capitalism are practiced in different corners of the globe. She abhors communism, no matter what its nationality, with its totalitarian nature setting it apart from authoritarian regimes.<BR>Her views on Europe are particularly interesting, and she goes into quite some detail about them.  (Here she speaks primarily to Britain, not the US.) She sees the European Union as virtually inevitable, the idea being swept along with the currents of globalization, but she is very much against it. She's against surrendering British sovereignty. Moreover, she believes the EU will collapse of its own bureaucratic weight. In fact, there's nary any aspect of it that she thinks will work -- not its political cohesiveness, not a common currency, not its joint Rapid Reaction Force, etc. This is because the union is contrived -- an artificial construct of disparate elements with few if any common bonds.<BR>Her path would be to negotiate a special framework for Britain within the EU -- one that would maintain (or restore) its sovereignty and control over its trade policy. If it cannot negotiate an acceptable set of membership conditions, Britain should \\"be prepared, if it became necessary, to unilaterally withdraw from EU membership\\" (402).<BR>It would seem, of course, that the latter is what will come to pass if Prime Minister Tony Blair were to follow her advice since granting such special considerations -- special treatment -- would prove to be the undoing of the EU. (I suppose one could argue that the EU would do whatever it takes to keep Britain in, including a longer transition for Britain even it if meant a longer transition for other member nations, especially if she's correct that the EU needs Britain more than Britain needs the EU (397).)<BR>One alternative to the EU, she suggests, is that Britain join NAFTA (which she would re-christen the North Atlantic Free Trade Area). Interesting thought. She's convinced it would be good for all involved. Anyway, her views and recommended actions reflect her faith in free market capitalism, which, in turn, reflects her faith in the collective intelligence and ingenuity of people.<BR>Thatcher is a Reaganite, through and through, and like President Reagan accomplished during his administration, her book makes one feel good about America. Left-wingers likely will find much to criticize in it, but most of us will find much to cheer. A resounding five stars.	2002-09-17
US	52942244	R1L05PHHSF8SXE	0300092962	865731404	At the End of an Age	Books	2	43	53	N	N	"...no more than a long[winded] essay"	This book is overpriced and over my head.  I hesitate to condemn a historian of Lukacs' caliber, so I chalk it up as being too deep for me.<BR>I was drawn by its title and inside flap description.  I thought he was going to explain how the world is changing and his view of where we are going.  He didn't.  It's a relatively short book (225 pages) in five chapters.  Lukacs refers to it as being just a long essay.  Actually, the first four chapters seem like separate, disjointed essays, but he pulls them together in the fifth chapter.  But I get ahead of myself.<BR>I struggled through the first chapter, which I found pedantic, abstruse, and rambling.  (In fact, this is his style throughout.)  I agree with his main point that humanity is at a watershed and with most of his supporting points, including his assessment (37) that humanity itself is now the biggest threat to our survival.  I have different reasoning, though.  He believes the threat comes directly from humanity's technological and scientific progress -- more to the point, from our capabilities and where they might lead.  I believe the threat comes indirectly from our technological and scientific progress -- more to the point, from our vast and increasing numbers vis-a-vis our ability to accommodate them, along with the fundamentalist backlash (e.g., Islamist hatred -- read \\"fear\\" -- of the West, anti-globalism, etc.).  Both stem from progress, but our capabilities should lead us to answers to our problems, albeit creating new ones along the way.<BR>Things almost picked up in the second chapter, but not much.  He carries on about what it means to be a historian, with a bit of critique of (other?) historians and the discipline.  I wasn't jazzed.<BR>He lost me altogether in the third chapter wherein he critiques humanity's scientific knowledge.  He is down on post-modernism.  I agree, but then we diverge.  He is down on particle (or quantum) physics, the existence of (even the pursuit of) a Grand Unified Theory,and the significant probability of intelligent extraterrestrial life.  I disagree with him on all counts.  He contends that the 20th century was a time of \\"intellectual (and artistic) stagnation\\" (118).  I just can't accept this.  He uses as \\"one evidence...the protracted reputation of 'modern' masters of thought, such as Darwin and Marx and Freud and Einstein...\\"  Since he sees the 20th century as being from 1914 to 1989 (we agree on that at least), he sees these guys as carryovers from the 19th century.  What about John Von Neumann (computers), Pablo Picasso (abstract painting/cubism), Robert Goddard and Wernher von Braun (rockets), Robert Oppenheimer and Leo Szilard (physics), Paul Dirac and Steven Weinberg (physics and mathematics), Frank Lloyd Wright (architecture), Stephen J. Hawkins (astrophysics)?  The list could go on.  He just loses me on this one.  He sets the bar too high on genius.<BR>He uses Hitler in chapter four to illustrate the application of Heisenberg's Uncertainty Principle as a limit on objectivism in the physical and non-physical world - interesting, but not particularly informative.  His point of how the object of historical scrutiny is impacted (interpreted) by the historian seems little more than \\"people are biased, their bias is a function of their cultural background and environment, and it colors their perception of whatever is the object of their scrutiny\\".  Not a novel concept.<BR>Farther on, \\"...we now know that mathematics itself necessarily consists of relationships -- whence the *absolute* truthfulness of mathematics has been proven an illusion...[I]f man did not exist, there would be no mathematics.\\"  (166-167, emphasis in the original).  I disagree.  The mathematical relationships and truthfulness that we understand admittedly are limited by our capacity to understand and canalized by our perceptions, which are shaped by our environment and limitations, but we discover mathematical systems and relationships; we don't invent them.  They already exist.  As Peter Hoeg said (433) in Smila's Sense of Snow, \\"What we discover in nature is not really a matter of what exists; what we find is determined by our ability to understand.\\"  Lukacs approaches this like an indictment against the collective wisdom of the human race.  As I see it, it just comes with the territory.<BR>Lukacs seems to have seized on the Uncertainty Principle to debunk classical physics and physicists.  He extends this Uncertainty-based debunking to the historical method.  I don't know about its usefulness or applicability to historicism, but his basic premise is flawed.  Particle physics and, in particular, the Uncertainly Principle, are not incongruous with Newtonian physics.  They describe different systems -- the former at the micro, sub-atomic realm; the latter at the macro realm.  They interconnect with a sympathetic relationship, and thus neither obviates the other.  They are compatible and hold true in their respective realms.  I do agree, however, in relating Uncertainty to the human will -- you never really know about people or what they'll do.<BR>This brings us to his denouement, chapter five.  He says the \\"two great achievements\\" of the Modern Age, which he conventionally starts with the European discovery of the New World, \\"were the invention and the applications of the scientific method and the evolution of a historical consciousness\\" (191).  After a dozen pages of near-babble he arrives \\"at the most dramatic proposition of this book.  Contrary to all accepted ideas we must now, at the end of an Age, recognize that *we*, and *our earth*, are at the center of our universe\\" (204, emphasis in original).  I think the key word here is \\"our.\\"  If he uses \\"universe\\" as a metaphor for the fund of human knowledge then I agree; but, again, that's not a novel concept.  If he means something more -- something deeper -- then I must again admit to shallowness.  <BR>On balance, I have to say that this book just didn't deliver forme.  If you feel up to taking a shot at it, then do.  Otherwise, you might want to pass this one by.  A generous two stars (only because 1 isn't an option).	2002-09-02
US	52942244	R1RLTUCC3G3T5P	0312285485	385557836	The Death of the West: How Dying Populations and Immigrant Invasions Imperil Our Country and Civilization	Books	4	18	25	N	N	The title is his thesis.	Buchanan starts with the same premise and question about the West that Bernard Lewis asks about Arabia. The premise: cultural demise; the question, \\"What went wrong?\\" In Arabia's case the premise and question are valid, based on the perspective of the last 350-ish years. As for the West, absent such historical perspective, I'm not convinced. While there is merit in his thesis, by and large Buchanan's concerns are overblown.<BR>Buchanan's attack focuses on post-modernism. He lists the charges against conservative values and views as though simply on the face of it the charges are absurd, yet he fails to point out that there is some measure of merit in most of them. He repeats the more outrageous claims (e.g., Susan Sontag's \\"The white race and it alone eradicates autonomous civilizations wherever it spreads.\\" [pg. 55]) without recognizing why such conclusions, albeit often deliberately hyperbolic and inflammatory, can be drawn.<BR>The fact is Western culture has been ethnocentric, sexist, and imperialistic. But then, so have been, and are, most other cultures. That's the fatal weakness in post-modernist theory. For all its ills, the West is little different from most cultures, current and past, in its aggressiveness and inequality except that we have been far more successful at exercising our baser qualities and subjugating others. Common human frailty is the key indicator of equality between cultures, ethnic groups, religions, and gender.<BR>Focusing on the West's weaknesses and faults obscures our virtues. We are hated and ridiculed not for our intrinsic faults, but for our position at the top of the cultural food chain. Being of color, as it were, or being Third Worldly does not automatically make one noble, nor does being Western (or white) automatically make one bad. Post-modernism is, at its core, little more than a destructive guilty conscience on the part of its white practitioners and malicious envy on the part of its non-white practitioners. Just as the more extreme post-modernists revile Westernism, Buchanan reviles post-modernism. They are at opposite ends of the spectrum while reality, as is so often the case, is somewhere in between.<BR>Buchanan sees post-modernism, particularly in the US, as a deliberate, concerted (or at least congruent) movement with its ideological roots in Antonio Gramsci, an Italian communist of the 1920's, and the Institute for Social Research (a.k.a. the Frankfurt School), which was set up at Frankfurt University in 1923 by Hungarian communist Georg Lukacs and the German communist party, and which rested on the intellectual strength of communists ideologues such as Max Horkheimer, Erich Fromm, Wilhelm Reich, and Theodore Adorno. With the rise of Adolf Hitler, the Frankfurt School migrated to New York City. Thus the US became the principal target of its Critical Theory, defined by one of its students as the \\"essentially destructive criticism of all the main elements of Western culture, including Christianity, capitalism, authority, the family, patriarchy, hierarchy, morality, tradition, sexual restraint, loyalty, patriotism, nationalism, heredity, ethnocentrism, convention and conservatism\\" (pg. 80).<BR>This conspiracy theory is Buchanan's fundamental flaw. Is it really a conspiracy or an idea (or worldview) whose time has come? If a conspiracy (and perhaps it is), to what end? If the old order is be torn down, sui bono? Is the Left consciously part of such a conspiracy or is it composed largely of naive dupes? Or, is it a normal outcome of humanity's advance up Maslow's hierarchy? With more and more needs being met, do we naturally turn to \\"do-gooder\\" pursuits and philosophies, all the while losing the warrior spirit and conservatism that got us this far to begin with? I don't know the answer(s), but Buchanan's arguments fall short of convincing me that he does.<BR>I do agree with his concern about the huge number of Mexican immigrants and their lack of (or at least slow) assimilation intoAmerican culture. His analysis of the impact on voting patterns of the Immigration Act of 1965 is also interesting, as is his analysis of the Democrats' strategy of using racism to its advantage.<BR>In fact, there is some truth to everything he says, every fear he raises, and every alarm he sounds. The problem is, just how far does one take Buchanan's concerns, especially when you try to wrap you arms around all of them? While I agree there is much good in American history and in our heroes, there is also something to be said for realizing our failures and incongruities. Of course, this can be taken too far as Buchanan points out. For example, Christopher Columbus did not introduce slavery to the western hemishpere. It was already widespread. (And, I'm sorry, but I'm very much in favor of the Washington Redskins staying the Washington Redskins!)<BR>He goes over the top when he laments the de-Christianizing of America, which he seems to blame on the US Supreme Court. While there clearly are strong atheistic undercurrents in America, we remain a strongly religious society, our Judeo-Christian foundations securely intact.<BR>Humanity is entering a watershed in history. The confluence of science and technology with global problems borne of a massive population increase, a growing interdependence (globalization, if you prefer), and the dawn of the Information Age are giving rise to a huge amount of rapid change for the planet, our societies and cultures, and the direction of our species. What humanity will be and in what direction we will be headed when we emerge on the other side of this watershed is anyone's guess. During this journey, though, we must neither abandon our values and traditions nor resist the winds of change. Immigrants to America must not abandon their heritage, but they should acculturate into the society that drew them here in the first place.<BR>I like Buchanan's chutzpah, I'm just not out there with him. There is much in his book with which to disagree, but there is much to consider as well. It is worth careful reading and serious reflection by all political persuasions.	2002-08-27
US	52942244	R39HW7WM0IONGA	0385499345	475272008	The Lexus and the Olive Tree: Understanding Globalization	Books	4	3	6	N	N	Bullish on Globalization, and bullish on America	Friedman comes across as an intellectual dilettante who has leveraged his long experience as a successful, wide-ranging news correspondent to collect and organize his view of things into a philosophical framework that to him makes sense of the world. He's my kind of guy. He deals mostly with the economics of globalization in a breezy, informal style replete with pet, but useful, descriptors for various aspects of it. But however central those economic aspects may be, the embrace of globalization extends far beyond. It is the offspring of technology, nurtured in a rising sea of humanity. It is nothing less than the whole of the interaction and interdependence of the world's peoples in today's world environment.<BR>Friedman's thesis is that globalization is the world system that replaced the Cold War, and that it's happening whether we like it or not. No argument from me on this point. We live in a world moved by market forces and technology as much as, if not more than, superpower politics.<BR>The interaction of the new and the old explains our world today, which Friedman aptly captures with his metaphor of the Lexus and the olive tree. He looks at \\"how the age-old quests for material betterment and for individual and communal identity - which go all the way back to Genesis - play themselves out in today's dominant international system of globalization\\" (pg. 29).<BR>He sees, understands, and explains globalization through his journalist's lenses, \\"assigning different weights to different perspectives at different turns in different situations, but always understand[ing] that it is the interaction of all of them together that is really the defining feature of international relations\\" (pg. 19). As such he interprets the world through a combination of at least six dimensions: economic, national security, political, cultural, environmental, and technological.<BR>One of the hallmarks of globalization is rapid change - out with the inefficient; try something new. Change isscary to most people. This is the core reason, it seems to me, why globalization is disliked (feared) by conservatives of all stripes - too much change, too quickly. Change is occurring faster than many people can handle, be they individuals or grouped into nations, cultures, political parties, ethnic groups, or whatever. As he points out on page 62, Tip O'Neill's adage \\"All politics is local\\" Is fast becoming passe.<BR>One has to wonder, though, if globalism isn't really just the triumph of Westernism and, in particular, Americanism. He alludes to this, as does Samuel P. Huntington among others. (See for example, Many Globalizations: Cultural Diversity in the Contemporary World, Peter L. Berger and Samuel P. Huntington, eds.). Certain radical groups around the world certainly ascribe to such a view. As Michael Hirsh writes, \\"Every major international institution - the UN, the World Bank, the International Monetary Fund, NATO, the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade - was made in America. And taken together, all this institution building has amounted to a workable international system, one in which democracy and free markets seem to be an ever-rising tide\\" (\\"Bush and the World,\\" Michael Hirsh, Foreign Affairs, September/October 2002, pg. 31). Add to that the Internet.<BR>At the beginning of chapter 6 he uses Malyasia's Prime Minister Dr. Mahathir Mohamad to make the point that globalization is a given - a nation will resist it only at its economic peril. He could be (and perhaps is) speaking to opponents of globalization in this country. If globalization is the current world system, then it's logical for the United States, and certainly within our capabilities, to maintain our lead and use it to our geopolitical and geoeconomic advantage.<BR>Of course, there are potential downsides to globalization - all of which, as he points out, are already occurring to some degree in various areas of the planet. These downsides include, for example, cultural homogenization (especially Americanization, which some around the world view with alarm and outrage); unplanned, unrestrained growth; and environmental degradation. He also discusses the problem of \\"winner take all.\\" This is his metaphor for the disparity between incomes of superstars versus the rest of us and how this problem is exacerbated by globalization. He uses the NBA as a marvelous example.<BR>This segues into a discussion of the backlash around the world. Much of it is in response to the various downsides mentioned above, but mostly, it seems to me, the backlash is driven by fear of change. He doesn't believe the backlash is a critical long-term danger though - not yet anyway, and probably never. Too many people around the world have a stake in globalization's success, even those that don't know what it is, because it brings a higher standard of living.<BR>In the end Friedman is bullish (what he calls \\"rational exuberance\\") on globalization and on America. He recognizes a whole list of problems along with the possibility that the US may yet go bust. Still, he argues, America has the right tools, is at the right place, and has the right set of government, economic, and social systems to have and to maintain a commanding lead in globalization.<BR>He makes an interesting, albeit somewhat obvious, point about the danger America now faces. Before globalization, when nation states were the key players and geopolitics was the playing field, if a person or group wanted \\"to wreak havoc on\\" America they had to first attain control of another nation state. Today even single individuals (e.g., hackers) can cause us serious harm, and organized groups not tied to any particular nation state (e.g., al Qaeda) can be dire threats.<BR>This book, while not the final answer on globalization, does give me a new perspective on world and national events. For example, look at the hullabaloo over Enron, WorldCom, etc., and the new law requiring CEOs to certify their corporations' books in the context of what Friedman calls DOScapital 6.0, the electronic herd, a nation's hardware and software, and so forth. Now, is that a forced fit? Read this book and decide for yourself. It will be worth your time.	2002-08-27
US	52942244	R20B3EW9DKTLYQ	1893302547	756687347	Seeds of Fire: China And The Story Behind The Attack On America	Books	4	3	5	N	N	Beware of China!	While quite an interesting book, the title is deceptive.  There is relatively little regarding 9/11, China's involvement or otherwise.  It's really like two books in one.  The beginning chapters - which include some rather extraordinary accusations of CIA's involvement in mind-bending experiments, remote viewing, and such - are a description of the compromise (theft via subterfuge) by Israel of a secret computer program originally developed for the Department of Justice - the Prosecutors Management Information System, or PROMIS - Israel's modification of PROMIS into an intelligence-gathering tool, Israel's subsequent duplicity with China knowingly to the detriment of the US, and China's use of PROMIS (now Enhanced PROMIS) to obtain US nuclear secrets from Los Alamos lab (the Wen Ho Lee case).  The last chapter describes China's long-term goal of becoming a superpower rival of the US and some of its activities in support of anti-US terrorism.  Sandwiched in between is an excellent description of China's student democratic movement that ultimately ended in the massacre in Tiananmen Square in June 1989 and the US's tepid response to it.  The connection between the student uprising and China's geopolitical aspirations isn't really clear beyond, perhaps, showing that China's communist politburo was (and still is) run by ultra-conservative hangers-on from the Long March who are not averse to violently suppressing dissent.<BR>The often book reads like a novel.  It contains an incredible amount of insider detail - deals, business relationships, covert assignments, confidential conversations, the contents of secret US intelligence reports, first-hand accounts of Chinese military operations in Lhasa, and on and on.  Of the little of which I have prior knowledge, he is accurate; of the rest, I can only guess.  He doesn't use footnotes, but attributions are often contained in the text as well as in a description of sources by chapter at the end of the book.  Apparently he had access to many primary sources - personal diaries and personal interviews with key participants - as well as secondary sources, but still the level of detail is phenomenal.<BR>The ultimate message of the book is a warning about China.  Beijing within the decade may take the place of Moscow as our primary enemy, along with international terrorism.  The new world order, as we already know, will not be peaceful.  We will be faced with new threats - old and new enemies, all with new capabilities, and all looking at relations with the US as a zero-sum game.  It brings to mind the Westerns in which young gunslingers look to make a name for themselves by challenging the old guns.  And like it did for those old guns, these challenges are quickly going to become exasperating.<BR>Anyway, this is an excellent read.  How accurately it projects our future remains to be seen.	2002-07-22
US	52942244	R24OEZ9GATZFBS	0375406425	123472120	Crucible of War: The Seven Years' War and the Fate of Empire in British North America, 1754-1766	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Rather long.	This is a rather large book (746 pages in the main body, another 88 pages of footnotes).  Actually, I only finished the first portion - a bit over half - up through Amherst's capture of Montreal, which effectively ended French control of Canada (or New France).  The second part of the book deals with continuing conflicts with Indians and the growing unrest of the British colonies.  Maybe I'll come back to that some day.<BR>There is a tremendous amount of detail in this book, covering a period about which I know relatively little.  It starts off with an incident in Jumonville's Glen in the Ohio Valley in May 1754.  A small Virginia military force led by Lieutenant Colonel George Washington ambushes a small party of French regulars.  The French quickly surrender, but events get out of control.  Before Washington can stop it, Indians accompanying his force massacre the French commander (Lt. Jumonville) and several of his men.  This is the spark that ignites the French and Indian War.<BR>There are a few drawbacks to the book.  On the plus side, there are several maps towards the beginning of the book that include just about every locale mentioned in the text.  Sprinkled throughout the text are a collection of fine contemporary maps and sketches of the various forts and battlefields mentioned in the text.  These are extremely interesting.  However, there is a deficit of maps depicting approach marches and topography.  This is a relatively minor inconvenience, however.<BR>An interesting point Anderson makes is his contention that General Wolfe's capture of Quebec was really just dumb luck rather than a masterstroke by a military genius.  In fact, he contends that General Wolfe was so ill and demoralized that he landed above Quebec and engaged the French in order to die a military death - to commit suicide, as it were - and then let his second in command, whom he despised, extricate and withdraw the force.  In the event, the battle becomes the pride of Great Britain, and he gets a hero's death far beyond anything he could have expected.  Anderson also downplays the importance of the fall of Quebec, subordinating it in importance to the naval battle of Quiberon Bay in which the Royal Navy defeated France's capability to succor the survivors of Quebec and thereby dashed France's hopes of retaking it.<BR>This is an excellent book, although I would have preferred more coverage of Rogers' Rangers.  It's length, however, couldn't hold my interest	2002-03-14
US	52942244	RNDPYR5L4BP2F	0671319698	910484424	The Spheres of Heaven	Books	4	4	6	N	N	Enjoyable read.	This is a sequel to The Mind Pool.  I think it's better.  It involves a scratch team of humans, each with unique capabilities and each flirting with the wrong side of the law, who undertake a hazardous interstellar trip that lands them in another universe confronted by hostile, militaristic aliens with superior technology.  I good romp, to be sure.  One of its themes is that the faults of humans (violence, greed, deviousness, etc.) are survival traits.  Charles Sheffield has become one of my favorite authors.	2002-03-14
US	52942244	R3KP7ZPS6RXIFH	0385493282	556829614	The First American: The Life and Times of Benjamin Franklin	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Brands supports his thesis!	A lengthy, detailed, earthy biography.  The way he is presented, I think he really was the first American.  He was very much the staunch British subject up until the early 1770's, even planning on retiring in England.  Then Britain's treatment of the American colonies became too much for him, and he became a staunch American patriot.  Not only a Renaissance man, but also quite the party animal and ladies man throughout.	2002-03-14
US	52942244	R34HTDVAKRRMPN	0312874766	74115197	Domain	Books	5	1	1	N	N	A romp!It weaves a tale that links the extinction of the din	Alten weaves a tale that links the extinction of the dinosaurs, the Great Pyramid, Chichen Itza, the Nazca Plain in Peru, Stonehenge, and the Bible into a good-versus-evil story that has trans-dimensional aliens being the progenitors of Homo sapiens sapiens in a plan that spans scores of millions of our years.  It deals with extreme periods of time with the idea that coming from a fourth dimension, time doesn't pass for \\"them\\" linearly the way it does for us.  A fun book.	2002-03-14
US	52942244	R2QAB2L7BSK7KH	0380976404	700939540	Return to Mars	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Bova does it again!	Another good one by Bova, this is about the second human expedition to Mars, with the Jaime Waterman character returning, this time as Mission Director.  Bova continues his theme of life being ubiquitous.  He has Waterman discovering the remains of a pueblo-type building built some 65 MYA by intelligent Martians whose civilization apparently was destroyed in the same cataclysmic meteor or comet shower that resulted in the K-T extinction on Earth.  He also weaves in a clear message against tourism on Mars (a problem, even a debate, that we won't have to deal with for quite some time yet).  A good read.	2002-03-14
US	52942244	R1BHLFXGO74BK2	0761513698	918229803	The Servant: A Simple Story About the True Essence of Leadership	Books	4	62	64	N	N	One of the better books on leadership.	This is an excellent, short book on the principles of leadership.  I prefer leadership books that use real-life leaders as models rather than the contrived storyline method used here, but that did't detract from its message -- only its delivery.<BR>Hunter espouses a series of easily understood leadership traits.<BR> Treat others exactly the way you would want them to treat you.<BR> Listening is the most important skill a leader can develop.<BR> You manage things, you lead people.<BR> The key to leadership is accomplishing the tasks at hand while building relationships.<BR> Trust is the most important ingredient in successful relationships.<BR> Your feelings of respect must be aligned with your actions of respect.<BR> A leader is someone who identifies and meets the legitimate needs of their people, removes all the barriers, so they can serve the customer.  To lead, you must serve.<BR> Slaves do what others want, servants do what others need.<BR> Intentions minus actions equal squat.<BR> Love is patience, kindness, humility, respectfulness, selflessness, forgiveness, honesty, and commitment.    This is also a definition of leadership.<BR> At the core of human personality is the need to be appreciated.<BR> Love is the act or acts of extending yourself for others by identifying and meeting their legitimate needs.<BR> There are only two things in life everyone must do: die and make choices.<BR> We do not see the world as it is, we see the world is we are.<BR>My experience is that his list is correct, albeit it is somewhat incomplete.  For example, it doesn't touch on decisiveness, intuition, and other characteristics that one will find in a good leader.  Still, it's well worth the short time it takes to read.	2002-03-14
US	52942244	R1XFRDJKKV35RK	0385500521	288543952	Carnage and Culture: Landmark Battles in the Rise of Western Power	Books	5	6	7	N	N	One theory behind European ascendancy.	Outstanding thesis: The West isn't fundamentally different from any other civilization in history -- not braver, not better.  Like everyone else, we kicked but to get what we wanted.  We just did it better than everyone else, at least we have over the recent millennium.  He poses an explanation of why we were able to do that.  He attributes it to a combination of nine characteristics of Western culture that usually were not found together in other cultures, and certainly not as consistently as in the West: freedom, civic militarism, decisive battle (as opposed to ritualistic battle), technology, capitalism, discipline, civil control over military operations, free speech and dissent, and constitutional government.<BR>A most interesting read (albeit a bent towards Eurocentrism probably makes it easier to accept).	2002-03-14
US	52942244	R20X6ALLWGOQRT	0936247061	480019950	The Camp of the Saints	Books	4	14	26	N	N	Racist, but heedful.	At face value this is a racist novel aimed at showing how the West's riches, contentment and seemingly fashionable concern for the world's downtrodden will make it vulnerable to the massive outnumbering of Europeans by the world's nonwhites.  \\"After all, we lived side by side with the Third World, convinced that our hermetic coexistence, our global segregation, would last forever.  What a deadly illusion!\\"  (pg. 93.)  \\"In this day and age, let a rapist hack a little girl to bits, let a murderer bash in an old man's skull for a hundred francs, or any such horrible crime of the sort, and modern justice will always trot out psychiatry to the rescue, or at least the excuse that our nasty, perverted society is really the culprit.\\"  (pg. 115.)  The uprising described in the book was \\"a new Revolution.  This time to wipe out not class, but race.\\"  (pg. 294.) <BR>However, I think this book is something more than racist.  It's also a warning that we need to pay more attention to the Third World.  If we don't want to be swept away by them, bit by bit (look at the \\"land reform\\" going on today in Zimbabwe under a pro-Black, racist President, and the same thing is starting to happen in South Africa) or suddenly (as by the non-violent invasions that form the basis of the story), we need to try to create better conditions in Third World countries.  Perhaps impossible, but rising standards of living may keep these people at home.<BR>...	2002-03-13
US	52942244	R39CXG2Z2OT506	1568954808	970195742	See How They Run	Books	3	0	4	N	N	Good novelist, but this one didn't jazz me.	This is a moderately interesting novel about a radical, militant Jewish organization that, posing as a neo-Nazi terrorist organization, plans and tries to execute an outlandish scheme of vengeance at the 1980 Olympic games in Moscow.	2002-03-13
US	52942244	R1F31GB7YYC9HT	0312856628	761825448	The Ganymede Club	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Good, hard sci-fi!	This is one of the better science fiction books I've read in a long time.  It weaves alien symbiosis, Solar System-wide war, personality transference, and psychiatric sleuthing into a great whodunit.  It's marred only by the unreasonable choice of setting it in the period A.D. 2040 to 2070.  It took me half of the novel to put that in the back of my mind.  A.D. 2340 would have been more appropriate.  Other than that, it was an outstanding read.  I don't think they come any better than Sheffield.	2002-03-13
US	52942244	RZVAAYF4A238C	0094780102	833377516	Tank Warfare in the Second World War: An Oral History	Books	3	2	3	N	N	Good, but short of the mark.	I enjoy oral histories because of the personal touch they bring to history and the surprising details that can bubble up.  This one focuses on American and British tank warfare in North Africa and northwestern Europe, although there are some pieces from the German point of view, as well as from Italy and the Pacific Theater.  Forty includes some extracts from published works from Russia, but these sound propagandistic and detract from the book.  For example, he includes at one point what appears to be a rather contrived account of a duel between a T-34 and a Panther.  This account, according to the notes, was taken from Krasnaya Zvezda, dated March 11, 1997, by Anatoliy Dokuchayev.  It sounded like pure hype (in this case, Russian hype), starting with a challenge over the T-34's radio from the German tank commander.  (Hhmmm...)<BR>Overall, this book is okay, but it didn't captivate me.  The best part is its Chapter 6, Specialized Equipment, which provided some interesting information on the &quot;funnies&quot; (as the British called them), and the organization and deployment of the British 79th Armoured Division.  His Chapter 10, Victory, was also interesting.  I don't know much about the final days of operations in Europe, rounding up the vast numbers of German POWs, trying to deal with the huge numbers of refugees and the dispossessed, and the initial steps of organizing the Occupation.  One of the details that bubbled up was a Briton's recollection of being attached to Italian partisans (partigiani) hunting Germans who had fled into hiding after the final surrender.  &quot;When the Germans saw the partisans were apparently officered by a major of a Tank Regiment they gave up in droves, thinking perhaps that by surrendering to a British officer they could expect a fair deal, for they knew the partisans had a score to settle.&quot;  There surely are lots of interesting stories behind the images this conjures up, not only in northern Italy but in the Balkans and other parts of Eastern Europe as well.  This is the human side of conflict, with people caught up in events that are bigger than they are and against which they struggle for survival and their livelihood.<BR>This book is worth reading, but it could have been better.	2002-03-13
US	52942244	R1JKZ28GZSXEZ	0060173343	609980992	Three Roads to the Alamo: The Lives and Fortunes of David Crockett, James Bowie, and William Barret Travis	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Rich in detail.	An outstanding, if occasionally tedious, book, crammed with detail.  It's a long book, too; essentially three biographies rolled into one.  I had wanted for quite some time to read a biography of Crockett, which is what led me to this book.<BR>It turns out that Crockett was the real thing: a true backwoodsman and accomplished hunter, and an honest and honorable man.  He was always dirt poor, but strived to be (and be accepted as) a gentleman.  He was a peaceful man, too, not a brawler.<BR>He became involved in politics almost immediately after his return from the Creek War, obtaining elected office in the Tennessee House of Representatives.  He was a naturally astute politician who knew how to ingratiate himself with a crowd by telling funny stories and displaying his frontiersman wit, but without taking any controversial positions.  And, while he was a bona fide backwoodsman, he capitalized on that persona -- in today's parlance, one of the first \\"outside the Beltway\\" types.  He also portrayed himself as a reluctant candidate, which he often was at the municipal level.  He had a strong sense of honor and prized his reputation.  He took offense at the slightest suggestion of any impugning or ridicule of his name, which, of course, made him somewhat vulnerable to political enemies.  He had two terms in the Tennessee legislature and three terms in the US Congress (with a failed reelection bid in between his second and third term), with various municipal posts in between and after his last term in Congress.<BR>Jim Bowie, on the other hand, was something of a gentlemanly fraud.  Part of a large family that participated in his schemes, he ran contraband slaves early in his adult life.  He would defraud the Government by smuggling blacks into Louisiana from Texas (which was still part of Mexico), then turn them over to the Government as runaways.  Being runaway slaves, but not knowing to whom they belonged, the Government would auction them (perish the thought of freeingthem).  Bowie would buy them and then get half his bid back as his reward for having turned them in in the first place.  He would then turn around and sell them at a profit.<BR>His principal vocation, however, was trying to make the big score via land fraud -- forging Spanish land grants and their subsequent conveyance to him of land in Louisiana, then applying to the Government for recognition of his \\"ownership\\" so that he could turn around and sell the land for profit.  Most of his land schemes ultimately proved unsuccessful and never provided the big payoff for which he constantly strove.  Davis goes into numbing detail on his many land schemes.<BR>William Barret Travis was an unsuccessful yuppie of his times, failing in his marriage and his law practice in Alabama.  He deserted both for a new start in Texas, having gotten himself into more debt in Alabama than he could handle.<BR>All three wound up in Texas for similar reasons.  They weren't prospering at home -- Crockett in Tennessee, Bowie in Louisiana, and Travis in Alabama.  All three were basically good men -- even Bowie, a product of his times, had many redeeming qualities -- and neither had any shortage of personal courage.  Their paths converged, and ended, at the Alamo.<BR>The battle of the Alamo occupies about 30 pages towards the end of the book (chapter 21).  While interesting, it doesn't provide any new insight as far as I can tell.  However, the description of events leading up to the Alamo is an illuminating example of how a lack of discipline in a military force -- in this case, the Texas militia -- among leaders as well as the men, leads to ineffectiveness.  Had they been better organized and disciplined, they undoubtedly could have cleared Texas of Mexican troops in October or November of 1835.  In the event, it took the appearance of General Antonio Lopez de Santa Anna and his main force, along with the heroic example of the Alamo, to motivate Sam Houston's \\"army\\" into becoming a sufficientlyeffective fighting force.  And, arguably, the Texas militia that died at the Alamo had no choice but to tend to their defense as well as they could.	2002-03-13
US	52942244	R3P2YM3EFHFGIJ	0671721658	422948219	The Mind Pool	Books	3	2	4	N	N	Not his best work.	Not Sheffield's best.  It started out well enough, but degenerated towards the end.  His character development is weak.  Their interaction sometimes seemed shallow and sophomoric, like something I might write.  He had some similarities with his Cold As Ice and The Ganymede Club: von Neumanns and, in particular, enhanced psychiatry (by Froppers in this case versus Haldanes in the two later books).<BR>One interesting theme he had is contrasting the human species' penchant for aggressiveness and violence with the lack of those characteristics in the other two sentient races humans encountered in their stellar expansion.  I've often wondered what kind of impression we'll make on other races (assuming there are any) when and if we come into contact with them, and after they have had time to try to understand who and what we are.  He also had an interesting idea for the expansion of the human race into interstellar space (actually, more of a reconnaissance), and that was a constant launching of probes in all directions that expanded our frontier at about half the speed of light -- something analogous to an expanding bubble.	2002-03-13
US	52942244	RL9HSJC3ET07Y	0446526339	78981579	The Martian Race	Books	5	15	15	N	N	Hard Sci-Fi.	This is \\"hard sci fi,\\" just as I like it.  The title refers to a race to Mars, not a race of Martians (although it comes close to that, too).  It's as much an example of \\"how to\\" on the cheap as it is a story.  Benford is down on NASA (or the Federal government, or both), postulating a competition to Mars with a huge purse ($30 billion) as the way to get a human expedition there.  That might be what it takes.  Yet it's also a call for cooperation rather than competition.  He shows the downside of human nature -- competitiveness, going for the gold, the potential for a breakdown of discipline in difficult situations.  He advocates nuclear propulsion systems for planetary exploration, rather than today's chemical systems.  He stresses how difficult planetary exploration will be -- especially the early stages, when improvisation and self-sufficiency are critical and thereby makes a case for on-the-spot decision-making rather than relying on orders from Mission Control.  He also looks forward to life (past or present) on Mars.  He was very creative in his depiction of what it could be like.  In fact, this novel once again demonstrates to me the limitations of my creative abilities.  Maybe I'm just intimidated, but I can't imagine writing a novel this well put together, this imaginative yet full of sophisticated technical detail.  Heck, I wonder if I could even come up with a good idea for a \\"beginning, middle, and end.\\"  At any rate, it was an excellent adventure story, notwithstanding the fact that the end was predictable two-thirds of the way into the book.  Benford put his lead characters through so many troubles (it actually got depressing at one point) in order to show the extent of danger and difficulties he expects planetary explorers to face that he left them only one way out.  Arguably, that aspect of it could have been better written.  And the way the threads came together in the end just fit too well.  <BR>Still, I enjoyed it immensely.	2002-03-13
US	52942244	R3KK6V3QY3BH6F	0198780710	727808309	We Now Know: Rethinking Cold War History (Council on Foreign Relations Book)	Books	4	49	57	N	N	Interesting analysis.	This is an analysis of the Cold War, not a history.  Gaddis' writing style is a bit dry, but this is more than offset by the wealth of insight and information contained in his book.  He has four principal themes:<BR> If you can pin the blame for starting the Cold War on anyone, it would be Josef Stalin.  His personality and leadership style caused it.  His imprint was so strong on the Soviet Union that Moscow's leadership style in the three decades following his death was still steeped in his.  This served to perpetuate the Cold War, which began on his watch.  (I presume, another reason it continued was that it had become institutionalized in the West as well by the mid-50s).  It wasn't until the next generation of leaders-Gorbachev-came along that they finally broke from the Stalinist tradition.  He sees no coincidence between this and the collapse of the Soviet Union and the end of the Cold War.<BR> The Cold War was less bi-polar than is generally thought.  Not only did Yugoslavia set its own course from Moscow, but Red China often expressed a will of its own even in the early days.  (I was surprised to learn that Mao Zedong was a fan of Stalin's and remained so after Stalin's death.)  Also, Eastern Europe remained in the Soviet Union's sphere only by force and coercion.  North Vietnam, North Korea, and even East Germany, didn't always tow the line.<BR> The turning point of the Cold War was the Cuban Missile Crisis.  Up to that point, politics, ideology, and economics all played into the conflict, and the issue, even viewed from today, was considered to be in doubt.  After the Cuban Missile Crisis the focus was solely on military power, which obscured to both sides the reality that the Soviet Union was losing-that it couldn't keep up either morally or economically.<BR> Digging into old Soviet and East European files and sources will bring surprises.  He thinks (and, it would appear, reasonably so) that there's much more to be learned as we penetrate the old files.<BR>Gaddis has a lot of detail on the Cuban Missile Crisis, especially on the number and types of Soviet missiles and associated equipment that deployed to Cuba, the number of Soviet troops involved, and the communications flow up and down the Soviet chain of command between Cuba and Moscow.  I was struck by the apparent willingness of Castro to let the situation go nuclear.<BR>This is a readable book that just begins to scratch the surface of the heretofore hidden history of the Cold War.  Hopefully it is just a hint at what is to come.<BR>For that matter, Mao seems to have never shrunk from the prospect of a full nuclear exchange either.  This frightened Moscow, but in each case seems to have resulted from Castro's and Mao's believing Nikita Khrushchev's bombastic propaganda about the Soviet Union having nuclear parity with, and even superiority over, the West.	2002-03-13
US	52942244	R1EDCNFUOE1FA7	0345427505	221309303	Gone for Soldiers: A Novel of the Mexican War	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Simple, easy to read style; lots of story.	Not as good as The Killer Angels by his father, Michael Shaara (which won a Pulitzer Prize), but not a bad book.  Written at a junior or senior high school level, it describes the southern campaign -- Major General Winfield Scott's advance from Vera Cruz to Mexico City -- through the eyes of several American officers and one Mexican (General Antonio Lopez de Santa Anna).  It's a livelier, more interesting read than Bauer's The Mexican War, but probably its best part was the thumbnail descriptions at the end of the book of what happened to the more famous participants after the war ended.<BR> Reading this book led me to think about the significance to American history of the war with Mexico.  Obviously, its most immediate significance was the amount of territory we gained as a result of the Treaty of Guadalupe Hidalgo.  As a result, the United States became a truly continental power.  Arguably it showed two downsides of the American psyche as well.  The war was a prime example of Manifest Destiny, and it intensified the debate over issues relating to slavery and led to the sectional crisis of 1861.  However, from a strictly military perspective it also:<br />· Demonstrated Major General Winfield Scott's military brilliance by (1) his strategic understanding that to win the war, the war must be taken to Mexico City; (2) his plan for doing that; (3) his various tactical victories during his Central Mexican Campaign; and (4) his advance on Mexico City wherein he cut himself off from his supply base at Vera Cruz.  Thus, the war confirmed his place in history.  (Cutting himself off from his supply lines drew a dire prediction from Arthur Wesley, the Duke of Wellington.  His subsequent capture of Mexico City changed the Duke's mind and elicited great praise from the victor of Waterloo.)<BR>· Gave US military officers, particularly those destined to be senior leaders in the Civil War, the learning experience of conducting large-scale military operations.  The last such opportunity had been in the War of 1812.  In the intervening years the US Army was scattered about the country in relatively small military posts, with no opportunity to conduct large-scale maneuvers. <BR>· Confirmed the importance of the West Point Military Academy since most of its graduates participated in the war as company and (a few) lower field grade officers, and acquitted themselves quite well.  (The senior military leadership such as Major General Winfield Scott and Brigadier General Zachary Taylor, were self-taught.)<br />An irony of the War in Mexico was that General Scott's style of husbanding his soldiers' lives by waging a war of maneuver whenever possible rather than fight any all-out (and costly) head-on battles should have presaged similar military operations in the American Civil War.  Unfortunately it didn't, and tens of thousands of American soldiers on both sides died because of it.	2002-03-13
US	52942244	RIJ275FP4O7F9	031226660X	19959884	The Ten Things You Can't Say in America	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Another voice of reason.	Elder is a libertarian and presents a libertarian view.  I agree with most of what he says, although his arguments occasionally come across as shallow and repetitive.  The \\"ten things\\" are:<BR>o Blacks are more racist than whites.<BR>o White condescension is as bad as black racism.<BR>o The media bias - it's real, it's widespread.<BR>o The glass ceiling - full of holes.<BR>o America's greatest problem: not crime racism, or bad schools - it's illegitimacy.<BR>o There is no health-care \\"crisis.\\"<BR>o America's welfare state - the tyranny of the status quo.<BR>o Republicans versus Democrats - maybe a dime's worth of difference.<BR>o The war against drugs is Vietnam II - we're losing this one, too.<BR>o Gun control advocates - good guys with blood on their hands.<BR>An interesting, sober assessment  It may offend liberals and jazz conservatives, but it's worth reading no matter what your political persuasion.	2002-03-13
US	52942244	R1GT1J1YNHTXLE	0767905288	579302723	The O'Reilly Factor: The Good, the Bad, and the Completely Ridiculous in American Life	Books	4	1	5	N	N	A dose of reality.	An excellent book in favor of common sense.	2002-03-13
US	52942244	RY491XWG2Y7NE	0684836696	770654209	Losing the Race: Self-Sabotage in Black America	Books	4	6	7	N	N	Revealing common sense.	A linguistics professor at University of California - Berkeley, McWhorter says black Americans are holding themselves back with self-deluding philosophies of victimology, separatism, and anti-intellectualism.  He says victimology is \\"not...a problem to be solved but...an identity to be nurtured,\\" while \\"separatism encourages black Americans to conceive of black people as an unofficial sovereign entity, within which the rules other Americans are expected to follow are suspended out of a belief that our victimhood renders us morally exempt from them.\\"  Anti-intellectualism is a belief that \\"school is a 'white' endeavor.\\"  His description of these explains why black Americans tend to not do as well in school as other non-white ethnic groups, why black American inner-city problems persist, why black Americans overwhelming agree with O. J. Simpson's \\"not guilty\\" verdict, and so on.<BR>His is a somewhat rambling explanation, full of repetitiveness.  Still, I think he hits at the heart of the problem.  White racism towards blacks isn't near the problem it used to be.  It still exists, to be sure, but black racism towards whites seems to be growing.  Perhaps this is understandable given our history, but that doesn't make it right.  Enough laws have been passed to ensure legal equality.  Social acceptance by whites, if that is a black goal (and it should be, but McWhorter's arguments lead me to think that it isn't, at least among many blacks), won't be accomplished by in-your-face attitudes and the separatism he described.  The tragedy of it, if he's correct, is that these three philosophies are becoming institutionalized in black America and are becoming part of the black American culture.  He says it wasn't always like this, having started in the 1960s, but I'm not astute enough about black history to know if this is true.  It might be that this has been coming on much longer than that.  At any rate, I presume it will turn around at some point -- hopefully more and more blacks will come to think like McWhorter.  They need to realize that to be equal, socially as well as legally, they have to think and act as equals and as though they want to be and in fact are part of mainstream American society.  For all of the ills that befell blacks in this country, and they definitely are something to write home about, they are behind us for the most part.  Moreover, what vestiges left are quickly fading.  If they don't come to grips with that, then racism and the so-called \\"black problem\\" will be a yoke around our collective necks for quite some time to come.<BR>McWhorter opened my eyes about Ebonics.  I shared the misconception that it is bad English.  He explains that it is black English -- a dialect.  Moreover, the Oakland resolution to teach Ebonics in public schools aimed not at replacing the \\"King's\\" English, but rather to bridge to it.  He makes the case, however, that language is not what holds black American children back in school, but rather the combined effects of the triad.  I agree.  I think if the triad can be corrected, Ebonics will be a thing of the past.<BR>Assimilation.  Acculturation.  Join the melting pot.  Maintain your heritage and your ethnic pride, but be a positive, integral part of mainstream American culture.  The black American community brings a richness and strength to the table that is unique.  All of America will benefit from it.  It seems, though, that black Americans, rather than being held back, are holding themselves back.  Perhaps that's not too surprising given their history in this country, but it's an outdated reaction.  It's also sad and unfortunate for us all.	2002-03-13
US	52942244	R1SY2PMACGO5GH	0297815180	260851577	The Whole Shebang: a State of the Universe(s) Report	Books	4	2	2	N	N	The State of the Universe.	Excellent, albeit it seems to drag in parts (for example, in his chapter on &quot;Quantum Weirdness&quot;).  The book is a &quot;state of the universe&quot; or, more specifically, our scientific understanding of it -- a wealth of information and theory, presented in a readable, pedestrian style.  If you like science fiction, you'll find this &quot;science fact&quot; even better.	2002-03-13
US	52942244	R1XC9VHRDJLY96	0679411925	123129391	Fire In The Mind: Science, Faith, and the Search for Order	Books	5	35	38	N	N	An epiphany.	This book started out slow and then became an epiphany.  The book is set against the backdrop of the greater Santa Fe area of New Mexico.  Johnson uses places and cultures in this area as a vehicle to lead into his description of current scientific thinking in cosmology and evolution.  I didn't understand the connection at first, but one piece of rationale did emerge: the various high-powered scientific conferences held at the Santa Fe Institute beginning in 1989 that dealt with information and physics.  This is where the epiphany came in, but I'm getting ahead of myself.  The other reason he used this backdrop, I believe, is his obvious love for the area - its history, geography, and cultures.<BR>The first part of his book is a fairly straightforward tour of cosmology, albeit at a bit more intellectual level than most popular descriptions.  One theme he starts with, and to which he returns several times throughout the book, is that our interpretation of the universe is determined by our inherited ability to understand, by our genetic evolution.  That is to say, we see the universe through our own lens, tempered by our limitations.  Nothing startlingly different here from my previous readings.  In fact, it's rather intuitive.  However, he delves into chaos theory, with which I am only slightly acquainted, and brings attractors into the discussion, about which I know nothing.  The point about attractors is that they may account for the evolution of the universe (and, as I would see later, the evolution of complex organisms on Earth).  Things were starting to warm up.  <BR>He goes on into an understandable discussion of quantum mechanics and quantum physics.  Wrapped in here is the epiphany: the fundamentals upon which the universe are built (as we understand it) are mass, energy, space and time.  To these we have added information -- a fifth fundamental that is as much a part of existence and evolution, and cause and effect as any of the other four.  His weaving of the significance of information into the tale of the evolution of complex organisms is all new to me, as is the concept that information is such a &quot;real&quot; player in the universe.  It plays a role in entropy and a fundamental role in evolution, starting with organic molecules -- order leads to complexity, which leads to chaos.  <BR>I struggle with how to summarize him.  I have flagged several dozen pages.  To try to review them will be like rereading most of the book.  This is one that I may, in fact, reread.	2002-03-13
US	52942244	RT3L8PHJNQ5W1	0375401199	102647171	Life: A Natural History of the First Four Billion Years of Life on Earth	Books	5	1	2	N	N	More than worth the time to read.	A biology tour from the formation of Earth to the appearance of Homo Sapiens, written in an urbane style and filled with anecdotes about the field of paleontology and its people.  The structure and pace of the book match the march of life through the millennia, almost to scale.  For example, primates occupied only the last few pages.  Fortey was particularly excellent in his description of the K-T event and how it was unraveled scientifically.	2002-03-13
US	52942244	R8STLLW998M44	0871137607	565870539	Eat the Rich: A Treatise on Economics	Books	3	5	10	N	N	Irreverent entertainment, but with useful tidbits.	This is an irreverent look at capitalism in various forms, as much a (not uninteresting) travelogue as an economic critique as he describes his impressions of Wall Street, Albania, Sweden, Cuba, Russia, Tanzania, Hong Kong, and Shanghai.  For most of the book O'Rourke sounds flippant and seems to be writing more to hear himself talk than to educate the rest of us.<BR>He brings it together in the last chapter, however, which has the same title as the book.  He admits that capitalism (free market economies) can work.  What differentiates good capitalism from bad is the wisdom in \\"the clumsy set-piece speech our parents made in the heart-to-hearts they'd spring on us when we were really high.  It's what we heard in capital letters when we brought home grades that looked more like a collection of Baywatch bra cup sizes...\\"  That is,<BR> Hard work.<BR> Education<BR> Responsibility.<BR> Property rights.<BR> Rule of law.<BR> Democratic government.<BR>Works for me.	2002-03-13
US	52942244	R10SPYT6UA9O3V	1556617240	684220744	The Death of Truth: What's Wrong With Multiculturalism, the Rejection of Reason and the New Postmodern Diversity	Books	5	31	35	N	N	Illuminating.	I found this book to be quite interesting, despite its repetitive style.  Written by several Christian educators, it compares theism, modernism (or secular humanism), and postmodernism.  They believe that postmodernism undermines all objective truth (i.e., truth that is true whether one believes it or not) and, therefore, is the death of truth, as we know it.  Their thesis is that theism believes in objective truth as revealed by God; modernism believes in objective truth discovered through experience and observation, and postmodernism believes truth is subjective and determined by individuals.  They aren't fans of modernism, but they believe postmodernism is downright pernicious<BR>The basic tenants of postmodernism are:<BR> Reason and rationality are cultural biases, and truth, especially God's truth, doesn't exist.<BR> All lifestyles, religions, and worldviews are equally valid.<BR> The only real sin is criticizing someone else's views or moral choices.<BR> Opinions matter as much as evidence.<BR> Reality is in the mind of the beholder.<BR>The authors believe postmodernism is the source of:<BR> The political correctness movement.<BR> Lower academic and discipline standards in public classrooms.<BR> Tolerance gone extreme and the rising lack of personal responsibility.<BR> The black community's rising separatism.<BR> The increasingly widespread belief that every hurt is intentional and legally actionable.<BR> Radical victimology.<BR> History is slanted in favor of white males.<BR> \\"Male\\" and \\"female\\" are socially created categories intended to enslave women to men.<BR> Hostility towards science.<BR>To quote from page 20, \\"Postmodernists believe that truth is created, not discovered.  They think things like reason, rationality, and confidence in science are cultural biases.  They contend that those who trust reason -- and things based on reason, like science, Western education, and governmental structures -- unknowingly act out their European culturalconditioning.  This conditioning seeks to keep power in the hands of the social elite.\\"  <BR>Well, I like my European conditioning.<BR>The authors take us through different subjects -- health, religion, science, history, literature, education, etc. -- and compare these 'isms.  Not surprisingly, I find myself in agreement with parts of all three of the 'isms, on most subjects.  For example, I accept the idea of cultural relativism, or paradigms.  Moreover, I've often touted the idea that \\"reality is perception,\\" not in an absolutist sense, but in the sense that what a person believes is true will govern that person's actions.  In that sense I agree with the postmodernist view that people are never objective or rational.  \\"Where we stand depends on where we sit.\\"  I also believe that words (semantics and syntax) have power, and how you describe something -- the words you use -- can influence others.  However, I take this only up to a point, albeit that point may be where my ethnicity and class kick in.  (That's certainly the case in the authors' view.)<BR>I do not see any inherent contradiction between theism and modernism, between the Christian (or anyone else's) concept of God and science.  And while I can accept some of the underlying concepts of postmodernism, I definitely do not like where the authors say affirmative postmodernism is taking us.  The authors' simplistic approach, which is necessary for someone like me to take the time to read and grasp their thesis, probably necessitates the stark divisions between these 'isms and their absolutist definitions.<BR>Going back to my fondness for my so-called European conditioning, I can see from recent history (i.e., at least the last 1,000 years or so) that European strengths have prevailed over all others with which we have come into contact.  Europeans are an inquisitive, individualistic, scientific, warlike culture that hasn't hesitated, until the latter half of the 20th century anyway, to throw its weight around.  It has serious flaws -- arrogance, callousness, and greed, to name a few -- but so do all other cultures.  We have progressed politically and socially, however.  Ironically, it may be that very progress that will bring about our demise.  Blacks, for example, for all the righteousness of their cause as they struggled out of slavery and segregation in the United States, could not have done so had there not been significant numbers of white people championing their cause.  Blacks have never had the strength of numbers to rise up militarily and throw off the yoke of slavery in this country (although it was often tried - more often, I suspect, than most people realize).  In fact, it was only in the past fifty years that have they had the political strength to change the laws in this country and even then it took white support.  Moreover, there has been no international pressure put on this country to change.  It has always taken American white sympathy -- whites' sense of justice -- to enable those things to happen.<BR>I'm not arguing that it should have been otherwise.  Rather, I'm just recognizing what I see in history.  Whites (along with help from Arabs and other black Africans) put blacks into slavery in the New World, and it was whites that pulled them out of it.  In the United States, it was white Americans.  To the extent that blacks refuse to acknowledge this is unfortunate, as is the extent to which white Americans are abrogating, or denying, the very qualities that made us great.  White Americans of European heritage have just as much of which to be proud as do any other race, and vice versa.  I worry, though, that the high rate of immigration into this country will dilute European traits (steeped in northwest and north central European heritage) and thereby destroy the very thing that makes this country worth immigrating to in the first place.<BR>Well, that was a bit of digression, but I see a connection between the authors' description of postmodernism and the potential erosion of our European values and way of life.  I endorse diversity and believe that our American culture benefits from it.  I just don't want it to morph into something unrecognizable.<BR>Anyway, this is an excellent book.	2002-03-13
US	52942244	R3FN5FOGV034IM	0891416587	507429674	American Generalship	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Outstanding!	I've been in leadership and management positions, military and civilian, for most of my adult life.  I've read a lot of books on leadership - some good, some not.  This one among the best I've ever read, if not THE best.  It's oriented towards military leadership, but it is applicable to leadership in any organization.  It's also a first rate history of military and senior Government leadership in World War II and later.  I wish I had had this book 30 years ago.	2002-03-13
US	52942244	R1LA1D0DDKAU8K	0312852150	837097106	Camelot 30K	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Slow start, but worth being persisten	It took me almost half of the book to get jazzed about this one, but I did get jazzed.  This is a tour de force description of an alien culture.  They are the Keracks, only a few centimeters high, living a medieval-like existence, but with advanced chemistry and metallurgical skills, on a comet, with an ambient temperature of only 30K, out beyond the orbit of Pluto.  They are an insect-like race with an ant-like culture living in individual city-states that are extremely hostile towards each other.  There is a collective mind, but individuality is also developed, along with specialization and sophisticated arts.  Forward's substantial use of chemistry and nuclear physics quickly outstrips my paltry knowledge, but it's fundamental to his weaving a fascinating tale of evolution and procreation, along with the beginnings of salvation that borrows from the story of Jesus Christ.  Really a fascinating book!	2002-03-13
US	52942244	R2BI59F0IZS06I	0195144201	433958284	What Went Wrong?: Western Impact and Middle Eastern Response	Books	5	23	27	N	N	Definitely worth reading!	In this book, another in the series of a dozen or so written by Lewis about the dar al-Islam - and the second one that I've read - he discusses the Muslims' search for an answer(s) to the disparity in vitality, growth, and influence between the West and Islam.  He discusses the interaction between the two cultures and the Muslims' gradual awareness, beginning in the 1600s, that they were being eclipsed by the West and the seeming inability to turn that around.<br />He provides comparative insight into the differences between the two cultures - a gap that so far seems unbridgeable, especially today.  One particular insight is the Middle Eastern concept that the converse of tyranny is not liberty (as it is in the West), but is justice (pg. 54).  Another insight I gained is that they did not completely ignore the West, notwithstanding that in their arrogance most Middle Easterners saw little to be gained by traveling to or otherwise studying the West.  Ironically, much of the observation and discussion of Western ways, institutions, etc., fueled the internal struggle between religious conservatism and a desire to maintain (or return to) authentic Islam on the one hand, and a gradual shift towards secularism on the other.  That struggle, in both aspects, continues today.<br />Going back to this growing awareness since the 1600s, it took a long while before Muslims realized the question existed.  Their inborn pride and deep belief in the correctness of Islam made them insular.  They were willing to conquer, but early on were not particularly interested in learning about those they didn't conquer - at least not when it came to Europeans.<br />This begs the question of the extent to which this still obtains today.  Does this account for the apparent miscalculations of Western (US) response to Saddam Hussein and Osama bin Laden?  In any event, to say the West and Islam have different worldviews is a vast understatement.<br />One of the fundamental differences has been, and to some extent remains, the role of women (pp. 69-73).  \\"From a traditional point of view, the emancipation of women - specifically, allowing them to reveal their faces, their arms, and their legs, and to mingle socially in the school or the workplace with men - is an incitement to immorality and promiscuity, and a deadly blow to the very heart of Islamic society, the Muslim family and home\\" (pg. 70).  This issue highlights the difference between modernization and Westernization (pg. 73).<br />Lewis wonderfully sums up the worldview of Islam as Muslims look out at the rest of the world when, describing an Egyptian historian's reaction to Egyptian Christians at the time of Napoleon, he says they acted generally \\"in a way that in his eyes was a reversal of the proper order of things as established by the law of God\\" (pg. 90).  Extending this to the whole of the Muslim world is a generalization, to be sure, and surely has many exceptions, but it is an apt generalization nonetheless and bespeaks an arrogance that rivals the West's.  \\"Muslims were accustomed to regard Christianity as an earlier, corrupted version of the true faith of which Islam was the final perfection\\" (pp. 45-46).  \\"The idea that any group of persons, any kind of activities, any part of human life is in any sense outside the scope of religious law and jurisdiction is alien to Muslim thought\\" (pg. 100).  Thus it's easy to see the fundamental conflict with Christianity, which at its core embraces secularism (pg. 96).  It is amazing to me that Islam and Christianity could both derive from Judaism yet evolve in separate, so easily antagonistic directions.<br />What causes this animosity?  What went wrong?  Lewis describes a variety of possible reasons, but doesn't come down conclusively on any one or combination of them.  Reading this and other books about Islam since 9/11, I'm starting to stitch together my own conclusions.  I think the animosity stems from a combination of a clash of values and the ascendancy of the West at Islam's expense.  That is, many, likely the majority of, Muslims feel their way of life is threatened by their perception of a Godless West, epitomized by the United States.  This is in deep contrast to a sense of superiority on the part of Islam vis-&agrave;-vis Judaism and Christianity, fueled by an overarching arrogance and pride, especially among Arabs.  Finally, there is Islam's inherent conservatism versus the pace of political and technological change extant today, and the resultant impact on Muslim society.  This combination is an explosive mixture.<br />Lewis believes there is still time for Islam to reverse its decline and recapture its past vitality, but it must do so itself.  His tone is not hopeful.<br />This is another outstanding read by Bernard Lewis, heartily recommended.e West at Islam's expense.  That is, many, likely the majority of, Muslims feel their way of life is threatened by their perception of a Godless West, epitomized by the United States.  This is in deep contrast to a sense of superiority on the part of Islam vis--vis Judaism and Christianity, fueled by an overarching arrogance and pride, especially among Arabs.  Finally, there is Islam's inherent conservatism versus the pace of political and technological change extant today, and the resultant impact on Muslim society.  This combination is an explosive mixture.<BR>Lewis believes there is still time for Islam to reverse its decline and recapture its past vitality, but it must do so itself.  His tone is not hopeful.<BR>This is another outstanding read by Bernard Lewis, heartily recommended.	2002-03-12
US	52942244	RZ5672XIPA8MX	1586481304	765097948	HOW DID THIS HAPPEN? Terrorism and the New War	Books	5	9	9	N	N	It answers the question it asks.	Hoge and Rose are the editor and managing editor, respectively, of Foreign Affairs. The title asks the question, referring to 9/11, and the various essays in the book collectively answer it. There are 23 essays in the book that approach 9/11 from a wide variety of angles. The authors, each a recognized expert in his/her field, are a bunch of very smart, experienced people giving their take on what happened, why it happened, and what it means. No matter what your particular area of interest is - geopolitics, military, sociology, etc. - there's something in this book for you. <BR>Take, for example, the essay \\"Was It Inevitable ~ Islam Through History,\\" by Karen Armstrong. She admires the virtues of Islam and views the current (last few decades) spate of terrorism in an Islamic fundamentalist historical context. It is an attempt at reform (islah) and renewal (tajdid). \\"This type of reform, which tried to go back to the fundamentals, became known as the Salafiyya because it looked back to al-Salaf al-Salih, 'the venerable forefathers'\\" (pg. 65). One of the most famous of these reform movements was Wahhabi, which is the brand of Islam practiced today in Saudi Arabia and in which Osama bin Laden was born.<BR>Contrast this with Walter Laquer (in his essay \\"Left, Right, and Beyond ~ The Changing Face of Terror\\"). He puts it in the context of a more general history of terrorism and explains (pg. 76) the rise of Islamist radicalism (terrorism) as the result of a decline of political doctrines and the emergence of a spiritual and intellectual vacuum, albeit the connection is not always straightforward (pg. 77).<BR>Other examples of the plentitude of ideas abound. Milton Beardon (\\"Graveyard of Empires ~ Afghanistan's Treacherous Peaks\\") provides a brief, but excellent background on the rise of the Taliban and its Arab influence (the so called Afghan Arabs). Richard K. Betts (\\"Intelligence Test ~ The Limits of Prevention\\") provides an outstanding thumbnail analysis of the problems facing the intelligence community in the post-Cold War world. \\"The All-to-Friendly Skies ~ Security as an Afterthought\\", by Gregg Easterbrook is alarming, even in retrospect. It provides valuable insight into commercial operations, such as (pg. 179) the point at which commercial airplane pilots actually take command of a given flight and why some pilots want an earlier assumption of that command. \\"The Unguarded Homeland ~ A Study in Malign Neglect\\" by Stephen E. Flynn describes how the nature of our economic infrastructure, with its interconnectedness, lack of redundancy, and heavy reliance on private security, increases our vulnerability to attack (i.e., to critical interdiction). He also describes the strain on the US Customs Service, the Coast Guard, the Immigration and Naturalization Service, and other government agencies.<BR>The list goes on. The essays provide not only a description of the social and political environment in which 9/11 occurred, but also offer policy options (such as in \\"The New Security Mantra - Prevention, Deterrence, and Defense\\" by William J. Perry). The book includes a sobering piece by Anatol Lieven (\\"The Cold War Is Over ~ The True Significance of the Attacks\\"). <BR>A clear message emerges. What made us vulnerable was a combination of a certain amount of complacency born of arrogance due to no recent US airliner hijackings (no successful attempts for the past 14 years - pg. 166), a low appreciation of the threat based on patterns of terrorist activity as well as an improperly focused intelligence apparatus, and a demand for faster, cheaper air travel. Our focus has improved and our willingness to pay what it costs has already brought improvement with much more on the way if we can sustain our alarm (which is to say, our determination). The question is not \\"Are we safer since 9/11?\\" That answer is an unequivocal \\"Yes.\\" The appropriate question is \\"Are we safe enough?\\" Hindsight is once again shown to be 20/20. In retrospect there weresome valid reasons for not piecing together the likelihood of 9/11 and there were some that were not so valid. There were plenty of panels and papers providing warnings, but the broader national attitude didn't lend itself to paying heed. The sad truth is that terrorism approaches its targets like water seeking holes in a vessel. Time and our own attitudes are terrorists' allies. Determination, perseverance, and, above all, imagination are the bulwarks of our defense.<BR>Another message emerges as well: the Cold War really is over, and a new world order really is emerging. It may or may not be the one envisaged by President Bush the elder, but 9/11 is the opening campaign of the first war as captured by President Bush the younger. The nation must adapt to new and still-forming geopolitical and cultural realities if we are to prosper in the future. This is an excellent primer to prepare for that journey.	2002-02-25
US	52942244	R31MY4FPI6XWC3	0395634172	950486766	Chancellorsville	Books	5	1	2	N	N	An outstanding book.  Excellent detail.	Sears treats General \\"Fighting Joe\\" Hooker with respect and understanding, perhaps more than he deserves.  He rightly criticizes the actions of a few of the Union Corps commanders (particularly VI/Sedgwick, XI/Howard, and Cavalry/Stoneman), and points out the great good luck involved in the success of the operations of Generals Lee and Jackson (notwithstanding the calamity of General Jackson's wounding and subsequent death).  I don't know what the impact on the battle would have been by a more aggressive Union cavalry ride through General Lee's rear, but Brigadier General George Stoneman's dismal, timid performance was so poor that he should have been publicly shot for sheer incompetence.<BR>I hadn't been as familiar with the details of this battle as I thought I had been.  For example, I didn't know that an important factor in General Hooker's defeat was his decentralization of artillery command.  Brigadier General Henry J. Hunt, the Army of the Potomac's Chief of Artillery, wanted to expand his tactical command of the artillery.  General Hooker thought he wanted to expand it into a Corps under his (Hunt's) command.  Hooker instead pushed control down to local commanders.  This sounds like something I would have done.  It eventuated that this was a mistake.  It led to piecemeal employment and failure to seize upon tactical opportunities that could have been capitalized upon if the guns were subject to a higher, more centralized command.  (Such decentralization would not be the case today under current Army doctrine.)  Another example is General Hooker's excellent intelligence staff (the Bureau of Military Information, under Colonel G. H. Sharpe, 120th New York Infantry), but which was offset by General Hooker's unfortunate reliance on battlefield telegraph systems, which were technologically immature and failed him at critical times.  Sears is also admiring of General Hooker's operational plan:  fix General Lee's attention in front of Fredericksburg while sending the bulk of his maneuver forces (i.e., his infantry Corps) on a westward flanking movement.  The goal was to cross the Rappahannock and Rapidan Rivers, come into Lee's rear, draw him out of his fixed fortifications, and force him to either withdraw from the area altogether or do battle with Hooker's forces (which at this point would be in a defensive posture) in his rear.  Hooker was counting on the latter and the inherent advantage of the defense if General Lee gave battle.  Unfortunately for General Hooker, he overlooked the disadvantage of giving up the initiative.  This proved to be his undoing.  The demonstrated tactical aggressiveness of Generals Lee and Jackson, of which General Hooker should certainly have been aware, used General Hooker's strategy against him.  Moreover, this was not just a matter of giving up the initiative early on.  General Hooker was also timid during his movement to contact on May 1 and on his plan to resume the offensive on May 7.  The fact is, General Lee and the Army of Northern Virginia did not win the Battle of Chancellorsville so much as General Hooker and the Army of the Potomac lost it.  The moral of Chancellorsville, as it has so often been in military history, is that fortune favors the bold.   Aggressiveness and persistence, especially that added measure when things seem to be going badly or when one seems to be at the end of the rope, decide, or would have decided, the day.	2002-02-18
US	52942244	R225QQ2WUC9Y3H	0679640401	166313123	Islam: A Short History	Books	4	13	19	N	N	View from the spiritual side.	I started a reading program about Islam and Islamic fundamentalism soon after 9/11 to try to get a better handle on why the United States is considered the Great Satan - that is, why we seem to be the primary target of Islamic radicalism.  I first started reading an earlier book of Armstrong's, A History of God ~ The 4,000-Year Quest of Judaism, Christianity and Islam (New York: Alfred A. Knopf, 1993).  Having finished about half of it, through the advent of Islam, I put it down in favor of her history of Islam.<BR>In both books she speaks to the cultural and philosophical history (i.e., the spiritual basis of Islam) more so than a political or event-driven history (albeit her Short History starts with a rather good chronology of key events from the Prophet Muhammad ibn Abdallah's first revelations in A.D. 610 through Iranian President Khatami's disassociation with the fatwah against Salmon Rushdie.)  This is a different tack than I'm used to reading.  She can be most interesting, yet tedious at the same time.  She admires the deep spirituality of Islam and is quite sympathetic to it from that angle.  This may be why she comes across to some readers as an apologist for Islam.  I found it a useful approach, simply keeping it in mind as I read.<BR>I drew several insights from her Short History.  <BR> Islam is the very fabric from which the culture and politics of Muslim countries are woven.  It is how Muslims define themselves (more so than Christians anyway), and how they interpret the world and events inside and outside of Islam.  On page 46 she says, \\"The Quran spoke of the unification (tawhid) of the whole of human life, which meant that all the actions of the individual and all the institutions of the state should express a fundamental submission to God's will.\\"  This has to be completely inimical to Western secularism (or Enlightenment).<BR> As with Judaism and Christianityk, there are many sects within Islam, and they can be more fractious than their Jewish and Christian counterparts.<BR> Fundamentalism has created a tension throughout Islamic history, starting with the imperial Umayyad Caliphate period of the latter 600s - almost from the beginning of Islam - when the caliphs became less stringent in their pursuit of Islamic ideals than had been the Prophet himself and the rashidun (the \\"rightly guided\\" caliphs who guided Islam immediately following Muhammad's death).  Salient examples are Ahmad ibn Taymiyyah (1263-1328) in the post-Mongol world, and Muhammad ibn Abd al-Wahhab (1703-92) and his reaction to Ottoman rule (which came to be known as Wahhabism, a puritan form of Islam still practiced today in Saudi Arabia).  Fundamentalism, of course, carries on into today.<BR> Judaism and Christianity have their share of fundamentalists, some of whom were violent, but Islamic fundamentalism has a more pervasive theme of violence.<BR> Fundamentalism at its core is a response to secularization of Islamic governance.  Muslims are duty-bound to overthrow apostate secular governments.  Modern fundamentalists believe that jihad is the only way to combat secularization, and they raise jihad to the importance of a sixth pillar of Islam.*  The West is not the root cause per se of secularization (which has occurred in the past), but the West is its engine today, and the US is at the forefront - the strongest, most influential Western nation.<BR>(* The five Pillars of Islam are the five bases of the Islamic faith: shahada (confession of faith), salat (prayer), zakat (alms-giving), sawm (fasting, especially during the month of Ramadan), and hajj (the pilgrimage to Mecca.)<BR> The core of the reaction to secularization is its perceived drift from the essence of Islamic principles and beliefs.  That would explain today's fundamentalist movements, which probably are driven more from the pace of change today than the existence of change.  That is, Islamic fundamentalism today is probably not a result of modernism per se, but rather aresult of the dramatic rate of political and technological change and the resulting impact on Islamic culture.  I think the same can be said, to some degree, of conservatism everywhere, religious and otherwise.<BR>The last paragraph of her book provides an interesting caution.  \\"The West has not been wholly responsible for the extreme forms of Islam, which have cultivated a violence that violates the most sacred canons of religion.  But the West has certainly contributed to this development and, to assuage the fear and despair that lies at the root of all fundamentalist vision, should cultivate a more accurate appreciation of Islam in the third Christian millennium.\\"<BR>This book is neither the final nor the only answer to the riddle Islam holds for the Western mind.  It's an excellent starting point, however.	2002-02-17
US	52942244	R2SCMC08R3UUVR	0195090616	118364838	Islam and the West	Books	5	11	12	N	N	A story of friction.	More than many historians, Lewis' writing is meaty.  Despite being written at a summary level, you get a sense of the depth of his research and his intellect in every page - in contrast to, for example, Bernard Kaplan, who, while often interesting, sometimes rambles and occasionally seems abstruse.  Put another way, if you are inclined to highlight important passages in this book, you might want to use a paintbrush rather than a highlighter.<BR>For the better part of a millennium the Muslim world (dar al-Islam) looked down on Christendom (part of dar al-Harb).  Then, in the late 1600's, things began to change.  Europe came to surpass Islam in every field - militarily, politically, culturally - culminating in the dismembering of the Ottoman Empire following World War I.  This has colored the Muslim sense of self ever since - a situation made worse by the Islamic (especially Arabic) sense of pride and superiority.  The reasons behind it and what to do about it occupy endless debate within dar al-Islam.  That same debate is at the heart of Lewis' book.<BR> \\"For Muslims, Islam is not merely a system of belief and worship, a compartment of life, so to speak, distinct from other compartments which are the concern of nonreligious authorities administering nonreligious laws [as is generally the case in the West].  It is rather the whole of life, and its rules include civil, criminal, and even what we would call constitutional law.\\"  (pg. 4.)  Both Christianity and Islam contain, \\"The idea that there is a single truth for all mankind, and that it is the duty of those who possess it to share it with others...\\"  (pg. 5.)  Despite the common heritage, two distinct cultures emerged.  Attempts at secularization met some success in the twentieth century, but militant fundamentalism is on the rise, bred by frustration, fueled by religious zeal, and sustained by hatred.  The goal is a return to a utopian view of the authentic Islam of the time of the Prophet Muhammad and the rashidun.<BR>Lewis' book is a collection of essays describing the interaction between Islam and the West and the impact each has had on the other.  It is but one of a dozen or so books about Islam that he has written over the past several decades, each with a different approach to Islam.  This one is a story of friction between two cultures.  Well written and readable, it is interesting at times, scary at others, but always illuminating.	2002-02-10
US	52942244	RP474BZQU3VVG	070060958X	707914198	The GI Offensive in Europe: The Triumph of American Infantry Divisions, 1941-1945	Books	4	25	29	N	N	American Infantry - Queen of Battle	This is a rather comprehensive survey of the performance of American infantry divisions in the European Theater of Operations (ETO) in World War II, by a military professional still on Active Duty.  His thesis is that the American Army (i.e., the Army of the United States) became better than the German Wehrmacht and defeated the Wehrmacht on those terms.  Not taking away anything from the quality of the American GI and the American Army in general, or of the overall quality of his book, LTC Mansoor does not really make his case.<BR>He refutes conventional wisdom, arising from a series of post-War interviews of senior German officers, that the American Army relied on the weight of materiel more than, in their view, the relatively poor fighting quality of the American GI to win the war.  He discounts the materiel argument, but not convincingly.  For example, see pages 214 and 237 for references, among others, to the dwindling quality of the Wehrmacht in the latter stages of the war.  And while he acknowledges the improving quality and techniques and the USAAF ground support, he is virtually silent on the impact to Wehrmacht operations of Allied air supremacy after D-Day.  <BR>I think it's clear that the Wehrmacht (along with the Waffen SS, the Luftwaffe, etc.) were worn to a frazzle by the time of D-Day.  Combine that with Ultra, and I think it's a tribute to the quality of the German soldier and the German military machine that they were able to carry on effectively at all until May 1945.  The Wehrmacht of 1944-1945 was not the Wehrmacht of 1940-1941.  There had been too many materiel and human losses, too many fronts, too much battering from the sky.<BR>This is not to discount the positive attributes of the American fighting man and woman that he brings out.  The American GI is the equal of the best this planet has to offer - always has been.  Rather, the reason for the American Army's victory in Europe is a combination of both of these arguments.<BR>I enjoyed his description of how General Marshall arrived at the decision for a 90-division Army.  I also liked his description of the Mobilization Training Program, although I would have preferred more detail.  The description of the many problems of scale (e.g., stripping divisions still in training of officers and men to be used as cadre for new divisions, problems encountered during POM (preparation for overseas movement), while not a new argument, are covered well.  Discussion of these issues provide the beginning of understanding of the magnitude of the task facing the small, pre-1940 professional Army - the task of preparing to wage world war and achieve a victory as rapidly as possible.  This was a humongous undertaking, to say the least.  Despite the Monday morning quarterbacking, our senior military leadership on balance did an excellent job.<BR>Now, he is critical of the &quot;90-division gamble,&quot; particularly in the ETO, believing that it led to excessive casualties in battle since it left an insufficient number of divisions to rotate them out of the line for rest, refit, and effective introduction of replacements.  This was exacerbated by our not adhering to the &quot;Germany first&quot; strategy.  I thought we had, but he looks at the operations in the China-Burma-India Theater, and the Southwest and Central Pacific Theaters as demonstrating otherwise.  Add to this the large number of men in the Army's service establishments, and, he argues, the American GI in ETO came up short.<BR>This book is a gold mine of information, especially when read in conjunction with The Unsinkable Fleet.  He has excellent coverage of the Army Mobilization Program (with which he has problems): its plans, constraints, problems, errors, and chaos.  He discusses the stateside training program (individual and unit), and the constant turnover of personnel due to having to provide cadre for new divisions and replacements for divisions already deployed in combat.  There was a common weedingout of ineffective commanders and staff at all levels during training (which unfortunately continued in every division in the early stages of combat).  The replacement system was virtually counterproductive early on, with soldiers losing their training edge as they languished in replacement depots en route to their divisions.  This improved as time went on, and he touts the end result of keeping divisions at full strength throughout the war.  &quot;The individual replacement system had its flaws, but these flaws stemmed from poor administration of the system rather than an inherent flaw in the concept.&quot;  (pg. 255)  (I'm not not sure Stephen Ambrose would agree with this.)<BR>He paints a picture of arrogance and confusion at the highest levels of command in the planning for D-Day.  He reminds us that when all is said and done, no matter the extent and quality of planning, fire support, and logistics, success on the battlefield rests with individual soldiers, small units (platoons and squads), and, most importantly, their leadership.  He also reminded me of how D-Day was a close-run thing, with victory wrested from the Wehrmacht by American infantrymen (with some fortuitous help from a few US Navy destroyer captains).<BR>In fact, he is not very flattering of the Army's senior leadership at all.  He feels they were not proficient at the operational level and too conservative at the strategic level.  He uses as examples Montgomery's failure to open Antwerp earlier as a critical failure second only to the Allies' failure to close the Falaise Gap earlier.  He also points to the Huertgen Forest debacle and the ensuing campaign to take Aachen, Eisenhower ordering Devers' Sixth Army Group to turn north when it closed to the Rhine rather than proceeding across it, and Eisenhower's and Bradley's failure to destroy more of the Wehrmacht forces in the Ardennes after they had stopped the German offensive.  His criticisms certainly are valid up to a point, but I think it's easy to criticize these decisions after the fact.  (The Huertgen Forest campaign, however, does deserve all the criticism that can be heaped upon it.)<BR>The end of the book brought an interesting surprise, as well.  He debunks S.L.A. Marshall's Men Against Fire and Marshall's conclusion that only about 10% of American riflemen actually fired their weapons at the enemy.  I wasn't aware of this controversy, but apparently it's been building for a decade or so.  He provides compelling arguments against Marshall.<BR>   Without question, this is an outstanding book, chock full of well-researched detail.  A good read.  Dock him one star for not supporting his thesis better.	2002-01-03
US	52942244	RG5S0EE5GK6E1	0452282101	976247392	The Debt: What America Owes to Blacks	Books	1	81	121	N	N	Racism	This book is objectionable, even reprehensible.  A worse racist diatribe I have never encountered.  He begins with a powerful introduction in which he discusses how the design and construction of the Capitol epitomizes the disenfranchisement of black Americans.  From there he sinks into victimology in the opening paragraph of Chapter 1 and wallows in it for the rest of the book.<br />  He succumbs to the need to redefine history.  For example, in pages 18-19 he mentions a discussion on a &quot;60 Minutes&quot; program aired September 20, 1998, regarding possible successors to Pope John Paul II.  That discussion included the possibility of a Nigerian (i.e., a black) Cardinal and what implications that might have for the Church.  Then he points out CBS' failure to mention that there have been three Popes from Africa or of African descent:  Saint Victor I (189-199), Saint Miltiades (311-314), and Saint Gelasius (492-496).  His point is that back then Africans were considered equals.  That's true.  However, he fails to point out that none of them were black, either.  They were of European Mediterranean stock.<br />  He prattles on about all sorts of ills.  He bemoans the general lack of knowledge about African history, especially among blacks.  He slams Thomas Jefferson as a hypocrite, and then tackles George Washington.  He criticizes our school system and our lack of involvement in Rwanda.  It goes on and on.<br />  There are kernels of merit in most of his arguments.  However, they get painted over with his own brush of racism.<br />  It's clear that he doesn't like America.  (pg. 134.)  He likes his wealth, constitutional rights, etc., but dislikes the feel of America.  In other words, he dislikes whites.<br />  When Robinson criticizes that we have in this country statues honoring Confederate heroes such as Generals Robert E. Lee and Thomas J. &quot;Stonewall&quot; Jackson, two thoughts occur to me.  First, we are a forgiving people.  We forgave the Confederacy, and we forgave ourselves.  Second, we respect people for the good or heroic things they did - their contributions.  We also forgive failings, or at least we don't let them overshadow the great things.  Examples abound, including Reverend Martin Luther King Jr. and his womanizing, and Thomas Jefferson and George Washington and their slave owning.  Robinson and others of his ilk should try forgiveness.<br />  His demand for reparations is politically and rationally bankrupt.  It is not deserved, nor could it be done fairly if we were to try.  That a formal apology is in order is undeniable, but at the same time whites' roles in ending slavery should also be formally acknowledged.<br />  In the end one must look to Robinson himself for the central argument against his diatribe.  He is a graduate of Virginia Union University and Harvard Law School, lobbyist and political activist, published author (this is at least his second book), traveler, lecturer, and upper middle class at least.  Despite his wringing of hands and gnashing of teeth, he has prospered.  Racism in this country is an obstacle he, like so many others, has overcome.<br />His book is well written editorially, cohesive, and has good presentation.  It is also poisonously racist.<br />  Robinson is clearly a very smart, passionate, erudite guy.  Unfortunately, he is hopelessly wrong.  He has become the very thing he despises.  I hope there aren't too many like him out there.y, and we forgave ourselves.  Second, we respect people for the good or heroic things they did - their contributions.  We also forgive failings, or at least we don't let them overshadow the great things.  Examples abound, including Reverend Martin Luther King Jr. and his womanizing, and Thomas Jefferson and George Washington and their slave owning.  Robinson and others of his ilk should try forgiveness.  <BR>     His demand for reparations is politically and rationally bankrupt.  It is not deserved, nor could it be done fairly if we were to try.  That a formal apology is in order is undeniable, but at the same time whites' roles in ending slavery should also be formally acknowledged.  <BR>     In the end one must look to Robinson himself for the central argument against his diatribe.  He is a graduate of Virginia Union University and Harvard Law School, lobbyist and political activist, published author (this is at least his second book), traveler, lecturer, and upper middle class at least.  Despite his wringing of hands and gnashing of teeth, he has prospered.  Racism in this country is an obstacle he, like so many others, has overcome.<BR>His book is well written editorially, cohesive, and has good presentation.  It is also poisonously racist.  <BR>     Robinson is clearly a very smart, passionate, erudite guy.  Unfortunately, he is hopelessly wrong.  He has become the very thing he despises.  I hope there aren't too many like him out there.	2002-01-03
US	52942244	R171GG3FL4PTQM	1557501564	218007375	The Unsinkable Fleet: The Politics of U.S. Navy Expansion in World War II	Books	5	16	16	N	N	Sometimes Bigger IS Better	This is a tale of the bureaucratic battles surrounding the size and manning of the fleet leading into and during World War II -- battles the Navy won.  It's dry in parts, filled with numbers and a repetitiveness from one &quot;special study&quot; to the next.  One feels the bureaucracy.  Still, it's an outstanding book.<BR>It gives a sense of the difficulty of planning at the macro-level.  How DOES one determine the right level of forces (the number and mix of warships, auxiliary ships, bases, and training and repair facilities, for example) for the Navy, and similar questions relative to the Army, Army Air Force, Coast Guard, and Marine Corps?  How DOES one determine the manpower, industrial, and materiel capacity of the nation, intrinsic as well as import?  How DOES one determine how to mobilize that capacity in a coherent way to optimize output?  How DOES one then pull all of this together (diverse needs, capacity, and mobilization requirements), marry it up with coalition-based strategic war plans, and determine the right mix and schedule of force structure and production priorities to fight the largest war in history?  What an awesome task!<BR>Davidson shows that there was no small amount of confusion and groping in the dark as the services grappled with this, and that the process was heavily punctuated with inter-service rivalry, which was probably a necessary ingredient even at the Joint Staff level.  The service chiefs did, after all, represent their services.  He also shows how the nation's resources, while vast, were not unlimited; moreover, that we were tasking them to their limits.  Even as late as 1943 we hadn't figured it out; that is, the JCS hadn't come to agreement.  Competition between the services was the name of the game (a deliberate policy of General George C. Marshall).  Competition also existed between the military and non-military sectors for manpower (for example, uniformed versus industrial manpower) and materiel (for example, the Navy versus the Merchant Marine).  Congress had authorized higher military manpower levels than the nation could deliver (at least in some agencies' view), but it wouldn't substitute its judgment for that of the service chiefs.<BR>I had not realized just how large our Navy was during the war.  While they did trim their planned ship construction a bit, they always had the upper hand in the battle for resources.  Their argument centered on the idea that the biggest, best equipped Army in the world was of little use if it couldn't deploy overseas.  In fact, the Army itself realized it was limited in size, among other reasons, by the overseas deployment capacity of the Navy.  For example, there were no new Army divisions activated after 1943, and Army recruitment in 1944 and 1945 was aimed at sustaining the force, not increasing it.  On the other hand, the Navy, while it curtailed its shipbuilding some, still had a robust construction program through the end of the war and even into 1946.  Another reason proffered by the Navy: rather than build to the minimum necessary to win the war, which could lead to longer duration and higher casualties and cost (a criticism advanced by some against the 90-division Army), the Navy focused on &quot;rapid prosecution&quot;, which would lead to more and stronger offensives and thus to fewer casualties and less cost.  These were the conclusions also of the Joint Strategic Survey Committee and the Joint Staff Planning Committee.  Of course, because those committees had no staffs of their own, they had to rely on the service staffs for technical support.<BR>There is a tremendous amount of detail in this book (albeit it could use a few organization charts to enable the reader to better follow the story).  Much of our victory in World War II is attributable to our battles in foreign lands and seas.  As Davidson shows, however, much of our victory is also attributable to the battles waged in the Pentagon and Congress.  This is a most informative book and a &quot;must read&quot; for any student of World War II or of the US military in general.	2002-01-03
