US	52945213	R2BZZ6X0ASGO45	0684827123	635805839	The Song of the Dodo: Island Biogeography in an Age of Extinction	Books	4	5	8	N	N	Brilliant but borderline esoteric	Quammen's book is an exceptional read and I found his writing and organization very suitable to a layman like me. But the book does verge on being esoteric in that it attracts readers like me: people who are already interested in biodiversity and who already accept the premise of evolution. That's not to say that the book would not attract \\"open minded\\" readers looking for a fuller understanting of evolution and ecological concepts. Quammen presents very articulate arguments early in the text to refute the concepts of creationism and intelligent design. And he does so without being shrill or pedantic. But it will take readers like me to encourage those disinclined to read such a tome to pick it up and seriously read it.<br /><br />It is a long read, but one I thoroughly enjoyed. There were even moments in the narrative that moved me to tears. Particularly effective was how Quammen brought about the amazing story of Bedo, the Malagasy youth that very nearly every naturalist visiting Madagascar sought out as a guide to see the vanishing lemurs.<br /><br />Quammen also presented complex science and theory in a very readble format for a layman such as myself.	2005-09-11
US	52945213	REUHYDMRBHW44	0026056208	608464032	HOMOSEXUALS IN HISTORY	Books	4	9	10	N	N	Excellent vignettes on significant gay men	A very readable and enjoyable book that provides informative sketches of a wide variety of gay men since the Rennaisance until the mid-20th century. The author provides just enough information so a reader can find other books devoted to a specific individual to read more. My only complaints are two, and one regards one of the book's strengths.<br />That strength is the lack of footnotes, which makes the text flow wonderfully. However, the author at times draws conclusions about a particular individual without providing any information on how that conclusion was reached. He writes as though to an esoteric audience, and if you're not in the know, you may miss how a conclusion was reached.<br />The second minor flaw is that in the latter part of the book where the author is describing people he had personal contact with, he goes way beyond what I think is acceptable interpretation of information and begins to editorialize on people and situations in ways I think inappropriate. It is a minor criticism, however. The book remains excellent.	2003-12-24
US	52945213	RM8DNBT2XFCX	0060505222	416597050	From the Land of Green Ghosts: A Burmese Odyssey	Books	5	33	34	N	N	A beautiful requiem for a simple life destroyed	Pascal Khoo Thwe opens this extraordinary book with the sentence: \\"When I was young I used to watch the rising sun with amazement.\\" Incredibly, Khoo Thwe sustains our amazement as he relates the corruption of Burma through his eyes while growing up in its remote mountains. His words are informative and caring, painting not with the brush of pity as he portrays his home village and his family in their humble lives, but with one of deference and honor.<br />\\"From the Land of Green Ghosts\\" is more than an autobiography and more than a history: it is a testament to a young man's persistent search for truth and a place in life where he can just be happy. The author's prosaic language is suited well for the narrative, and a fine example of how well the author learned English in so short a time when his goals were achieved.<br />It is also a sorrowful tale because the woes of the Burmese remain, the grip is still retained by the military junta. I highly recommend this book, as well as \\"The Stone of Heaven\\" by Adrian Levy and Cathy Scott-Clark.	2003-04-13
US	52945213	R234PDC1EC9V4R	1931313016	396474097	World's End I	Books	5	17	18	N	N	Iraq all over again	If you want to know what's going on with George Bush junior's fascination with Iraq, read this book. Quite clearly it shows how shortly after the turn of the century, Britain and France wanted to make sure they got access to oil ahead of Germany, despite the German's industrial base growing faster than that in Britain in France. The target: Mesopotamia. And what is Mesopotamia? Modern day Iraq. Also of interest was the explanation that Germany's superior air power during WWI was in part attributed to French industrialists who sold the materials necessary to Switzerland who in turn sold to Germany, which Germany used to attack France: all in the name of profit.<br />Beyond the historical references, the story is wonderfully told, and Lanny Budd's character is extraordinarily and realistically portrayed with true emotion and depth, quite an achievement for that period of time.<br />This series of books is exceptional and I hope to read all of them.	2003-02-08
US	52945213	R246JZML1O8Y3Y	0385323778	927414489	Innuendo : A Todd Mills Mystery	Books	4	3	3	N	N	A story about love and trust wrapped up in a murder mystery	Superb writing and plot development as well as characterization. Then why not 5 stars? Maybe I'm being too snooty about my stars, but I have to reserve them for something truly wonderful, and there are just a couple hitches with this book.<br />But that by no means should dissuade you from reading it. Zimmerman is a superb writer and crafter of detail. And while this book may be filed in the murder mystery section, it is more about love, trust and fidelity than it is about who done it.<br />No finer work have I read that delves into the issues of what makes relationships work, and the rocky road that Todd Mills and Steve Rawlins travel is realistically and lovingly portrayed.<br />Like any true murder mystery, we have a dead body by the second page. And we know that something is afoot by the end of the first chapter. If you have ever struggled through issues of fidelity and trust in your relationship, you will read nothing truer than the doubt and tricks the mind plays Zimmerman pens in these pages. And there's an excellent murder mystery mixed in to boot.<br />So why just four instead of five stars? Without giving it all away, let's just say I think Zimmerman didn't tie up all the loose ends as neatly as he should have. There is still one thing left unexplained, significant in my view. And the other problem is mere careless editing I think. And that is when we read the first chapter from Todd's point of view, we realize he is curious about Tim Chase: is the actor gay or straight? Good enough. But then we get to the chapter about Tim Chase and we get the same unnecessary information, or rather, the question is posed in a very bothersome and redundant manner. Minor yes, but with a writer of Zimmerman's caliber, I think he should have caught that.	2002-12-16
US	52945213	R3JNDJJC8IXB8Q	0520086279	960181975	Male Colors: The Construction of Homosexuality in Tokugawa Japan	Books	5	44	47	N	N	A major academic work that was a pleasure to read	Not many scholarly works read well, but this one does. Even if you are not a student of Japanese history and culture, \\"Male Colors\\" is a pleasure. Yes, there are sections with a lot of Japanese names (particularly when the author cites a string of sources), but by and large, this work is very accessable to us mere mortals who are interested in the history of same-sex love.<br />Initially, as the author describes, same-sex love in Japan was something practiced by elite groups: first the Zen Buddhist monks who are believed to have imported the practice from China (a curious notion because this also carries the connotation that homosexuality came from \\"some place else\\") and then the samuri elite. While factors such as the lack of eligible women may have contributed to the general acceptance of bisexuality, many, if not most, of the practicers of nanshoku had deep emotional ties to their partners. But as urban life began to grow, nanshoku was popularized through a combination of the kabuki theater and the commercial sex enterprises that cropped up.<br />Also interesting were all the examples of art depicting nanshoku, some of it quite ribald and most of it graphic. But that just lends more weight to the notion that there was no stigma attached to boy love during this period in Japan, at least not a universal stigma; it was quite nearly universally tolerated and any effort to control nanshoku usually was to control violent fights over popular boy prostitutes rather than a governmental decree against homosexual sex.<br />The book is heavy on male sexuality with little mention of lesbianism, but that's hardly a surprise considering most cultures tend to be strongly patriarchal and it is the men who record history. And as usual, it appears that it was through contact with the West, particularly with Christian missionaries, that the practice of nanshoku was eventually shunned into the crepuscular corners of Japanese culture. More evidence that if there is harm caused by same-sex activity, the harm is caused by a prudish societal mentality orignating in a rigid Judeo-Christian ethic that thrives on domination and guilt.-sex activity, the harm is caused by a prudish societal mentality orignating in a rigid Judeo-Christian ethic that thrives on domination and guilt.	2002-11-11
US	52945213	R2R34FCDIZGJ7K	0940567210	355658111	Queer Dharma: Voices of Gay Buddhists	Books	4	10	11	N	N	Good discussion on sexuality, essays interesting	In it's first section, \\"Queer Dharma\\" sets out to show that Buddhism is essentially silent on the issue of sexuality in terms of whether it prefers hetero vs. homo. This silence on the issue of sexuality (whereas Buddhist Dhamma is quite clear about specific sex acts in certain suttas) should make Buddhism a good choice for gays seeking a spiritual expression that carries no hidden agendas regarding them. It also shows how the Buddhist texts face the same problems today that Christian texts do: in that modern day connotations and denotations are ascribed to words that 1,000 years ago had quite different and more specific meanings.<br />The rest of the book contains personal essays by gays describing how they came to Buddhism, and many of these essays are very uplifting and tremedously well written as well as inspiring. My only concern is that these essays, and the entire book's perspective for that matter, is heavily stilted toward the Mahayana and Zen schools, with little attention paid to the Theravada tradition. In fact, a review of the Buddhist literature out there (and for sale at Amazon) mostly represents Mahayana and Zen traditions: the Theravadans apparently don't have very good agents. Despite that, the book is much needed I think for the gay community, as Buddhism provides a method that works and brings true peace that we gays desperately need.	2002-10-17
US	52945213	RQGGXTWUT523M	068483457X	260745463	Hungry Ghosts	Books	4	7	11	N	N	Sheds light on present as well as past	&quot;Hungry Ghosts&quot; sets out to explain one of the greatest tragedies of the 20th century, and as a benefit, helps explain present-day China. Whether the specific numbers are accurate or whether Mao can be held personally responsible for the millions of starvation deaths is something that will be debated for years. However, books written about or by Ch'an monks who lived during that era support much of what Becker asserts (see George Crane's &quot;Bones of the Master&quot; as an example). After reading this, now I know my mother wasn't kidding me when she used to chide me for not eating my vegetables when she said &quot;Don't you know there are starving people in China?&quot;<br />&quot;Hungry Ghosts&quot; also provides insight into present day Communist Party behavior, particularly in the provinces. The recent AIDS epidemic in China is a good example. How is it local officials can round up thousands of villagers to collect their blood, using the same unsterilized needle on hundreds of people, without having any concern for the potential of blood-borne pathogens, let alone HIV? And then mix all that blood together, spin off the plasma, then reinject the mixed blood back into the villagers! That is what is happening now in China, the birth of an AIDS epidemic that may put the one in Africa to shame.<br />Read &quot;Hungry Ghosts&quot; and you will see the same bureaucratic malfeasance at work today trying to deny an entire new generation of orphans being created -- not by famine as during the Great Leap Forward, but by an institutionalized silence over government initiated mass HIV infection.<br />Sadly, some things never change. China is making great strides economically, but the government is dragging its feet with meaningful reform.	2002-09-30
US	52945213	R2F8E8PC03IBY3	0316525960	872038215	The Stone of Heaven: Unearthing the Secret History of Imperial Green Jade	Books	5	20	21	N	N	An excellent and thorough read	Levy and Scott-Clark are excellent story tellers, and do they ever have a story to tell. Tracing the history of imperial green jade, or jadeite, they begin in the late 18th century with Chinese emperor Qianlong and 400 rivetting pages later end in present day Myanmar. Along the way the reader is exposed to the unrestrained profligacy of the Chinese emperors and the equally unrestrained ignorance and arrogance of the British colonialists. There is scheming and plots within plots as players in the Chinese dynasties kill their own progeny to ensure a malleable emperor will succeed. The plundering by the British of the old Imperial summer palace is shocking, and the primitive warfare of the Kachin in Burma is horrifying. Levy and Scott-Clark's descriptions put the reader right into the midst of the action: the writing is so effective that you can feel the clinging humidity of the Burmese jungle as 19th century British explorers plod along in search for the mines from whence the jadeite is extracted.<br />Also of tremendous interest were the passages about the Dowager Empress Cixi. If all you know about the last emperor Pu Yi is from the wonderful movie \\"The Last Emperor,\\" this book will help round out some of the events and issues driving the Pu Yi story along that were alluded to in the movie. Besides, the movie's only allusion to Cixi is in the very beginning when the toddler Pu Yi is brought to the Forbidden City. Levy and Scott-Clark reveal to the reader from where Cixi came and how her desire for the jadeite was often at the core of her political machinations.<br />And then there are the final chapters that reveal a scenario so horrifying, so shocking that even the surrealistic visions of Francis Ford Coppola in \\"Apocolypse Now\\" cannot compare.<br />This is definitely the best book I've read so far this year, and probably the best book I've read in the past five years. After reading this book you will not be able to look at another piece of jadeite, no matter how beautiful, and not whince because now you know the stone's infamous history.eautiful, and not whince because now you know the stone's infamous history.	2002-08-11
US	52945213	R1DZJS8D7P5224	0571199607	904852268	The Boys Across The Street	Books	4	9	10	N	Y	Did you miss the point?	This novel, written by a now dead gay porn star about a gay porn star, might initially strike one as being puerile, but I found it to be a rather well-written character sketch with chauvinism as its theme: hedonistic chauvinism on the one hand as portrayed through the protagonist Rick, and religious chauvinism as portrayed by the Hassidic Jewish boys Rick is so enamoured by.<br />Rick is intrigued by the adolescent boys attending a Hassidic-run school across the street from his apartment. His initial interest is purely juvenile and tied to his fantasy of bedding one of the boys. But the story is carried by the conflict portrayed by two opposing hegemonies that are separated by a city street.<br />One the one side is the world as portrayed by Rick, a gay porn actor whose insatiable appetite for reading is contrasted by his profligate and pecuniary lifestyle. His personal perspective on life is that it is utterly meaningless and devoid of any real sense of right and wrong: everything is relative in Rick's world, nothing is sacred.<br />Across the street is the world of Hassidic Jews whose world is guided by a belief in a divine order that holds only the Jews can claim divine guidance and protection and that ultimately the course of events will lead to the Jews being rescued by their god.<br />What ensues is Rick's butting philosophical heads with the school boys with each being just as intransigent in their position as the other: a sort of literary meeting of two immoveable forces. Rick tries to show the boys how meaningless their beliefs are, yet the boys refuse to budge. And the boys try to impress upon Rick how his dressing up like them is offensive and his reading of their holy texts belittles their belief, but he is so caught up in proving that he is right and they are wrong that he is bewildered when he experiences retaliation.<br />There are moments when he and some of the boys genuinely connect, even bond. But the connection is precarious because of the overriding belief of one makes no room for the other's belief.<br />Did Sandford intentionally create a characterization of how today the Religious Right and Gay community appear incapable of communicating meaningfully because each holds on to its own selfish hegemony? Whether he did is unimportant. But as an allegory of this conflict, Sandford's story is quite good.ding belief of one makes no room for the other's belief.<br />Did Sandford intentionally create a characterization of how today the Religious Right and Gay community appear incapable of communicating meaningfully because each holds on to its own selfish hegemony? Whether he did is unimportant. But as an allegory of this conflict, Sandford's story is quite good.	2002-08-09
US	52945213	R3R2UHNHVN7BD8	0812930991	150767402	Blinded by the Right: The Conscience of an Ex-Conservative	Books	5	29	36	N	Y	Absolutely amazing	Brock's book is a veritable \\"Who's Who\\" of the Republican right and an expose of the right-wing disinformation machine the Republicans built in the 90s. There are so many reviews of the book, I hesitated to write one. But here are some points many of the other reviews leave out.<br />Brock clearly shows that the worst thing that ever happened to the GOP was the collapse of communism. Without the communists to hate and deride, Republicans were left in a vacuum. Their party had no real platform beyond communism's destruction other than the unspoken platform of maintaining the status quo of the military industrial complex. So when the Soviet Union collapsed, the Republicans looked for new enemies domestically: professional women, gays and the politically correct elitist media culture.<br />Whether he realizes it or not, Brock does an exceptional job of showing the underlying premiss as to why the extreme wing of the GOP hates professional women and gays so much: both threaten the dominate male culture. Hence, professional women are characterized as \\"bull-dog dykes\\" and gay men as \\"ineffectual fags.\\" Neither stands up to what a real man should be like nor what a real woman should be like. Brock's repetition of how professional women and gays are characterized clearly shows how the same euphemisms are used over and over.<br />The other thing this book does is provide a list of names of everyone invovled in the Republican hegemony. It is ironic that one of these individuals likes to keep a picture of Lenin as a sort of role model, because Brock's portrayal of the GOP shows it to be even more ideologically entrenched than the communist party ever was, and just as, if not more so, viscious in its internal purges of anyone who doesn't tow the line.<br />In the end, you'll wonder what ever happened to true conservatism. Does conservatism really have a place in today's political discussion? Or is it as atavistic, inbred and hateful as Brock describes it to be? Rather than being the shoulders of the past that today's leaders could use to stand upon to peer into the future, as described by the late conservative writer Russell Kirk, conservatism appears to have regressed into an infantile chorus of whining.<br />Finally, Brock puts himself right in the middle of all this, unflinchingly showing how egotistic, power and status hungry he was along the way. He does make some attempt to explain why he behaved so shallowly, but it is much too early for Brock to really be able to objectively evaluate his own pitfalls. In the years to come, however, I'm sure he will complete his personal evaluation, and it wouldn't surprise me if he revisits this topic later in his life with the new perspective of time and distance.<br />In all, this book is a must read for anyone who remotely considers themselves a follower of American politics.g the shoulders of the past that today's leaders could use to stand upon to peer into the future, as described by the late conservative writer Russell Kirk, conservatism appears to have regressed into an infantile chorus of whining.<br />Finally, Brock puts himself right in the middle of all this, unflinchingly showing how egotistic, power and status hungry he was along the way. He does make some attempt to explain why he behaved so shallowly, but it is much too early for Brock to really be able to objectively evaluate his own pitfalls. In the years to come, however, I'm sure he will complete his personal evaluation, and it wouldn't surprise me if he revisits this topic later in his life with the new perspective of time and distance.<br />In all, this book is a must read for anyone who remotely considers themselves a follower of American politics.	2002-07-14
US	52945213	R12P8MFKJFEHDO	0060197765	907746676	From Third World to First: The Singapore Story - 1965-2000	Books	4	4	6	N	N	Fascinating insights to other world leaders	I truly enjoyed this book, but gave it four stars rather than five because it just doesn't quite stand up to \\"The Singapore Story.\\" Lee's first book details the chronological development of Singapore from a backwater port to a thriving city-state. In this book, much of the focus is on Lee's thoughts and perceptions of other countries and leaders, particularly on how Singapore related to them. His passages on China are indeed excellent, and his insight into the Chinese mind and culture are wonderfully presented. And his cautions as to how America should deal with Taiwan are indeed interesting given how the present Bush administration has been acting. His thoughts on America's involvement in Vietnam provide a perspective that I had not realized while growing up in the 60s and 70s, and his explanation of what happened in Indonesia with Suharto's fall is enlightening as well. I would have liked more information on specific developments in Singapore during the last quarter of the past century, but Lee's insights on other world leaders was very interesting nonetheless.	2002-07-01
US	52945213	RY9CITR8CP6QG	0938077341	956102477	Transformation and Healing: Sutra on the Four Establishments of Mindfulness	Books	5	76	77	N	Y	Excellent guidance on mindfulness	Thich Nhat Hanh's structure of how he presents and reviews the suttas of the Pali cannon is very easy to follow and broken down into manageable portions. For a novice Buddhist like myself, I find this format very helpful. So many other discussions on the suttas make my head spin!<br />In this text, as in others, the sutta in its entirety is presented in the Therevada translation. He then follows this with a section by section explanation of what the sutta means and how to apply it. The last sections of the book include other translations of the sutta, which are quite interesting because you see how these translations change sometimes the meaning of the sutta.<br />This book is very helpful for beginning meditators as well because it gives you the basics of breathing and how to use your breathing for meditation and contemplation. Once you master one step, the sutta provides you with the next step to take. I am so happy I have found this and the other books by Thich Nhat Hanh. My life is already the better for it.	2002-02-17
US	52945213	R3GJ02PG1H8PT8	1931412537	68909029	Zhuan Falun: The Complete Teachings of Falun Gong	Books	1	19	43	N	N	This is not Buddhism	Zhuan Falun is not Buddhism, does not teach the Buddha's teaching, and therefore, should not be employed as part of one's Buddhist practice. For some, Li Hongzhi might have something of value to say. But his writings reflect more of the puritanical and judgmental rhetoric often found in other \\"religions.\\" Out of one side of his mouth, Li Hongzhi talks about what the Buddha teaches, but then out of the other side of his mouth, he makes a proclamation that is opposite of what the Sutras teach, or he just seems to make up something that has no basis in any of the Sutras. Li Hongzhi's condemnation of homosexuality is such a case, because the Buddha never said anything about same-sex relations. So is his discourse on healing illness and the nature of illness. We are born, we grow old and become sick and then die. This is unchangeable. Yet Li Hongzhi teaches that this natural progression can somehow be altered through practice of Falun Gong. This is why the movement is so popular in China. It's popularity is a reaction to the Chinese government's reduction in health care options for many Chinese citizens. Having said this, people should be free everywhere to follow whatever doctrine they want to. But if you want to follow Buddhism, this text leads you astray.	2002-02-06
US	52945213	R2BLHRDU5DOI4K	0938077368	63002309	Our Appointment with Life: Discourse on Living Happily in the Present Moment	Books	5	39	40	N	Y	Simple, succinct and wonderful	Don't be fooled by the thinness of this book, because it is packed with wisdom presented in an easily absorbed manner. The simplicity of Thich Nhat Hanh's commentary on this sutra makes its meaning so crystal clear, reading this was like experiencing an epiphany. It provides more information on mindfulness, and as a novice, the more concrete the information the better, and this has been the best so far. Perhaps the best guide I have found for instruction on how to live in the here and now and how important the present is to our future. We are how we are because of how we lived in the past, so we must pay critical attention to the present to ensure our futures are happy ones, because the now will turn into the future.	2002-02-02
US	52945213	R2NHG5QSIF760L	0861711483	113356417	Only a Great Rain: A Guide to Chinese Buddhist Meditation	Books	5	2	2	N	Y	Very helpful instruction for the novice	As a novice, I found this book very helpful. It provides very concrete guidance in meditation. And it also provides useful information on other aspects of Buddhism presented in a very easy to read and understandable manner. I highly recommend this book for meditation novices.	2002-01-30
US	52945213	R2YF45WAHQO35Y	0834804581	629166273	Being Good: Buddhist Ethics For Everday Life	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Superb presentation of Buddhism's basics	As a novice in Buddhism, I found this book to be an exceptional presentation of the basics of the Buddha's teachings. The text is broken down into short chapters on key subjects, such as friendship, lying, making money, helpings others. This format makes the book very useful, one that can be read over and over for either daily meditations or for review to help you re-focus your behavior. It also is very helpful in presenting key sections of important sutras in the Buddha's teachings. A wonderful and highly recommended book.	2002-01-30
US	52945213	REEAQWT7XP403	0877280665	589840233	The Secrets of Chinese Meditation: Self-Cultivation by Mind Control As Taught in the Ch'An, Mahayana and Taoist Schools in China	Books	3	24	34	N	Y	Not suitable for a novice	As a novice, I found this book troublesome. While the information is very interesting for my Buddhist study, it offered me little practical help in my meditation practices. I do enjoy the text for its readings and explanations of the various schools of Buddhist thought. But I have found better texts and more helpful texts when it comes to instruction on personal meditation.	2002-01-30
US	52945213	R19HZVHSAYETEA	0374155755	457053862	Fixer Chao	Books	3	4	7	N	Y	Exceptional prose, unfulfilling story	Han Ong is an exceptional wordsmith. His ability to turn a phrase and use of metaphors are wonderful. And the plot he has created -- a story of a down-and-almost-out Filipino in NYC who gets a chance at salvation -- quickly draws the reader into a realm of two extremes: that of the upper-crust New York society of snobbish elite, and that of the very near hand-to-mouth existence of the ambitionless. And this is where I think the novel runs into trouble. Because these two extremes are actually very much alike and Ong does an exceptional job showing the reader how alike they are. But by the end of the story, the protagonist misses his opportunity to rise above both existences and transform his own life in the direction his heart tries to move him. Instead, the protagonist slips back into a defeated acceptance of his lot as being unchangeable. But it was only unchangeable because he eschewed the opportunity to transform himself. If anything, the novel succeeds in portraying the premise that good intentions don't matter if you cannot summon the actions to follow up the intention.<br />William Paulinha is an intelligent Filipino squandering his life in New York City. After going through the superficial and promiscuous lifestyle of being a hustler, he manages to get along typing manuscripts for others. He is an astute observer of human nature, but he's stuck whining about how everyone else is getting along. Along comes Shem, an angry Jew bent on revenge by proxy and who enlists Paulinha in a scam to get even with the folks he believes have wronged him. It's a scam that appeals to Paulinha: he is to portray himself as a Chinese expert in feng shui and must re-arrange the homes of New York's snobbish elite with a twist -- he must suggest to a client something absolutely wrong so that the feng shui doesn't bring harmony, but chaos and ruin. Donning the persona of Master Chao, Paulinha reveals to us the schemes and self-centeredness of the elite, as well as the emptiness of their existence. He begins to realize that to desire wealth and comfort won't bring him the satisfaction and happiness that he desires, and he also begins to see how his duplicity by playing the role of Master Chao may prevent him from achieving his goal of being a better person. The reader also sees fine examples of how people at both ends of the spectrum are just as unethical and just as selfish as the other. It's a dog-eat-dog world no matter what your social or economic standing. For a time, I was rooting for Paulinha, hoping he could break away from this selfish existence, but I was disappointed. In fact, Paulinha was sort of anachronistic in that he had such keen intelligence and perspicuity, yet apparently lacked something to make it all work to his advantage. He seemed swept along by a destiny he had no control over, and as a reader that frustrated me. It must be noted that Paulinha's middle name is Narciso, perhaps an allusion to the Greek myth of Narcissus. Like Narcissus who was enamoured by his own beauty, Paulinha becomes enamoured of his new found power and status in the role of Master Chao, but it was disappointing that Paulinha fell to the same demise as Narcissus.<br />This may have been Ong's intention from the start, to show how difficult it is to break away from our current condition and that many people fail such attempts. But as a reader, I want to read about a character that does succeed. Ong had me rooting for Paulinha throughout most of the book, but toward the end Paulinha had lost my support.<br />Having said all that, I must repeat that Ong is an exceptional writer. His voice and prose are memorable. I'm sure we will see many fine works out of this young author.eir existence. He begins to realize that to desire wealth and comfort won't bring him the satisfaction and happiness that he desires, and he also begins to see how his duplicity by playing the role of Master Chao may prevent him from achieving his goal of being a better person. The reader also sees fine examples of how people at both ends of the spectrum are just as unethical and just as selfish as the other. It's a dog-eat-dog world no matter what your social or economic standing. For a time, I was rooting for Paulinha, hoping he could break away from this selfish existence, but I was disappointed. In fact, Paulinha was sort of anachronistic in that he had such keen intelligence and perspicuity, yet apparently lacked something to make it all work to his advantage. He seemed swept along by a destiny he had no control over, and as a reader that frustrated me. It must be noted that Paulinha's middle name is Narciso, perhaps an allusion to the Greek myth of Narcissus. Like Narcissus who was enamoured by his own beauty, Paulinha becomes enamoured of his new found power and status in the role of Master Chao, but it was disappointing that Paulinha fell to the same demise as Narcissus.<br />This may have been Ong's intention from the start, to show how difficult it is to break away from our current condition and that many people fail such attempts. But as a reader, I want to read about a character that does succeed. Ong had me rooting for Paulinha throughout most of the book, but toward the end Paulinha had lost my support.<br />Having said all that, I must repeat that Ong is an exceptional writer. His voice and prose are memorable. I'm sure we will see many fine works out of this young author.	2002-01-26
US	52945213	R3J67048V4AIZL	0553099965	733870533	Touched	Books	5	22	25	N	Y	A surprisingly good read	I bought this book more than a year ago and I finally got around to reading it. I found it to be thoroughly satisfying, unsettling, and very precise in its characterizations. Unlike other reviewers, I found the section told from Robbie's perspective (the boy that was molested) to be very plausible. Certainly, there are those who have been sexually abused and would consider Robbie's reaction to be anomalous, even &quot;fiction.&quot; But we are all individuals and we all experience things differently.<br />I'm a journalist that covers the courts, and I've witnessed many intergenerational criminal sex cases. I even roomed with a man who told me about when he was molested at age 12 by an older man, how at the time he was a willing participant. And I've witnessed cases that leave me with no doubt about the predatory visciousness of the perpetrator or the shameful harm inflicted on the child.<br />This book is merely a snapshot of a very complex phenomenon, albeit a very good snapshot. Love it, hate it, think it puerile or simplistic, whatever your reaction may be to this book, it is exceptional in its ability to provoke thought.	2001-12-29
US	52945213	RW940VMB2735L	0130208035	627030774	The Singapore Story: Memoirs of Lee Kuan Yew	Books	5	9	13	N	N	Enthralling and informative	I have not lived in Singapore, nor have I visited this city-state, so my comments may lack some of the perspective others have expressed in their reviews. But it also means I may not have any of their bias either.<br />I found Lee's memoirs fascinating and very enlightening. Throughout his political career, Lee and his People's Action Party were in constant battle with the communists and other political forces that either sought to oppress Singapore and Malaya, or to promote a racist government that gave benefit to the Malays while leaving the indiginous Chinese and Indians voiceless. It is true that Lee's PAP government used authoritarian measures at times, but given the struggles Singapore faced, it is a good thing that it did.<br />The issue of racism in the central Malaya government was most interesting, and Lee shows how this racism, or bias in favor of the native Malays, led ultimately to Singapore being expelled from the Malaysian nation. That turning point was when Lee spoke in parliment in Malay without a prepared speech and critisized the government for wasting its time on deciding what would be the national language and who would control schools while all Malaysians were suffering economic troubles in the country.<br />While it is true this is an autobiography, and naturally would present Lee's perspective on his life and the issues he faced, Lee does so in my view rather even-handedly, including excerpts of what his critics were saying about him and not responding to these criticisms directly. Rather, he would portray what the events were and what he believed needed to be done. It is my conclusion that contrary to Lee's critics, his vision of Singapore was egalitarian and while socialist in practice, he always had all the races' needs in mind.<br />Of particular interest to me was Lee's observations of the various African leaders he met with during the early sixties, as well as how he saw in the way the Vatican selected a pope a political method to keep the PAP free of communist infiltration. And Lee's vision of how law and order is meted out gains interesting perspective from his rememberances of the Japanese occupation of the territory during WWII.<br />An excellent and easy to ready book.the PAP free of communist infiltration. And Lee's vision of how law and order is meted out gains interesting perspective from his rememberances of the Japanese occupation of the territory during WWII.<br />An excellent and easy to ready book.	2001-12-23
US	52945213	R3KC0XT0FQ81BE	0312082991	523148234	Sorry Now?	Books	3	2	2	N	N	Good start to an improving series	Fortunately, the Paul Turner series gets better as does Zubro's crafting of enjoyable cop mystery stories. With this one, the debut of Paul Turner, Zubro tackles an interesting premise: are gay activist orgnizations behind the murder of an anti-gay televangelist's daughter? It's a question Paul Turner, a gay Chicago homicide detective, doesn't like having to look at, but one he realizes he must if he is to solve this case. The reader gets taken in a lot of different directions and one has to wonder if the poor cop will ever solve this case. Maybe Zubro hadn't made up his mind &quot;who done it&quot; until the final chapter because there are no really good clues, but plenty of motive to go around. All in all it was an enjoyable read, but it's not among my top 25 murder mysteries, regardless of genre (gay or straight or whatever)or author.	2001-10-17
US	52945213	R1JXD147BGVDVL	1888451130	179079853	Falun Gong's Challenge to China	Books	5	33	38	N	Y	Don't make this book what it's not	First and foremost, a reader should not mistake this book as being a text on Falun Gong and its tenants. In fact, the book pays only a relatively superficial bit of attention to analyzing the core precepts of Falun Gong. Rather, this book is a description of the Chinese government's and media response to Falun Gong and whether that reaction is rational or justified. From that perspective, the book is quite good. Schechter is quite careful in indicating that while he presents alleged first person narratives of torture going on in China of incarcerated practitioners, those narratives are still alleged descriptions. They have not been verified. And in the appendix, he provides the reader with excerpts from publications that present both benign and critical descriptions of Falun Gong and its founder, Li Hongzhi. What the book is quite exceptional at is showing how the Western media has been lazy in its coverage of the Falun Gong issue in China, often adopting the lexicon of the Chinese government-controlled press, and hence becoming a mere mouthpiece of the Chinese Communist Party. And it also challenges the reader's ability to accept core constitutional precepts, such as if all humans are to enjoy the right of religious/spiritual freedom, than all forms of religious/spiritual thought must enjoy those protections. If it isn't Christian or Jewish, Westerners tend to deride other doctrines as &quot;cults,&quot; which only reveals an ethnocentric ignorance and intellectual laziness endemic in Western society. A reader of this text is not asked to decide whether Falun Gong should be considered legitimate. That is quite beside the point. Rather, the reader is asked whether Falun Gong practitioners should be allowed to practice their beliefs without mollestation. This text also reveals how China's decision to drastically cut back medical benefits to huge portions of its population sowed the seeds for Falun Gong's popularity because the doctrine does boast improved health through personal cultivation. No wonder it appeals to middle-aged and elderly people more than others, because it has been precisely this demographic that suffered the greatest loss because of the Chinese government's decision to reduce medical benefits. If we believe in religious and spiritual freedom, then the answer must be yes, Falun Gong and its practitioneers should be left alone. In the United States, the debates that form the historic Supreme Court decisions that define our freedoms were and continue to be initiated by what the rest of society deems as &quot;fringe&quot; elements. The right we have to refuse to recite the Pledge of Allegiance we owe to Jehovah's Witness. This book is an exceptional text and evaluation of not only the Chinese government's reaction to Falun Gong, but of the United States' and other Western reactions.ugh personal cultivation. No wonder it appeals to middle-aged and elderly people more than others, because it has been precisely this demographic that suffered the greatest loss because of the Chinese government's decision to reduce medical benefits. If we believe in religious and spiritual freedom, then the answer must be yes, Falun Gong and its practitioneers should be left alone. In the United States, the debates that form the historic Supreme Court decisions that define our freedoms were and continue to be initiated by what the rest of society deems as &quot;fringe&quot; elements. The right we have to refuse to recite the Pledge of Allegiance we owe to Jehovah's Witness. This book is an exceptional text and evaluation of not only the Chinese government's reaction to Falun Gong, but of the United States' and other Western reactions.	2001-08-24
US	52945213	R2ZU9PFRYLDU3N	0140066365	963190731	Farewell to the Sea: A Novel of Cuba (Pentagonia)	Books	5	14	18	N	N	Stunning and melancholy	In &quot;Farwell to the Sea,&quot; Arenas continues his Pentagonia series by departing from the hallucinatory violence presented in the first two books (&quot;Singing from the Well&quot; and &quot;Palace of the White Skunks&quot;) and entering the minds of a young married couple spending a week by the sea. Divided in two parts, the first part is the stream-of-consciousness narrative by the unnamed woman who resents her baby, fears losing her husband, and who feels helpless to cope with the communist society in Cuba. She aches for her husband's love, yet is suspicious of his infidelity, particularly when a handsome and taciturn teen-aged boy arrives with his loquacious mother and moves into the cottage next to theirs. Her dreams are mixed into her daily conscious narrative and reveal her anxiety, torment and fears. In one dream with sexual connotations, she sees visions of Greek warriors slaughtering each other in a violent orgy-like battle. And in another vivid rendition of the ubiquitous cue of the communist life, Cubans stand morosely in line while soldiers standy nearby, gunning down anyone that dares defies them or attempts to alter the cue.<br />The second part is from the husband's, Hector, perspective, but it's primarily told in poetic form and involves often allegorical portrayals of how he sees Cuban life and his own. His resentment underscores much of his tale, even his attraction to the boy next door, which becomes a central conflict during his stay. He longs for the boy and to freely express his homosexuality, yet feels the omnipresent oppression of the communist system as it systematically stifles all that is human. Perhaps one of the most poignant passages is the following poem in which Hector expresses what the communist system has done to his and everyone else's humanity: &quot;You are no longer a man who calls things by their name -- you blaspheme. You are no longer a man who laughs -- you jeer. You are no longer a man who hopes -- you mistrust. You are no longer a man who loves -- you accept. You are no longer a man who dreams aloud -- you are silent. You no longer sleep and dream -- you are sleepless. You are no longer one who is wont to believe -- you consent. You are no longer a seeker -- you hide.&quot; And then he adds the line (not 30 yet) to signify how communism has jaded him and turned him into a hopeless cynic while still a young man.<br />Beautifully written, and a tale that will bear repeated readings.are no longer a man who loves -- you accept. You are no longer a man who dreams aloud -- you are silent. You no longer sleep and dream -- you are sleepless. You are no longer one who is wont to believe -- you consent. You are no longer a seeker -- you hide.&quot; And then he adds the line (not 30 yet) to signify how communism has jaded him and turned him into a hopeless cynic while still a young man.<br />Beautifully written, and a tale that will bear repeated readings.	2001-07-05
US	52945213	R1S7K4B5NRLWXK	0553106503	589067427	Bones of the Master: A Buddhist Monk's Search for the Lost Heart of China	Books	4	3	5	N	N	Informative and easy reading	This is a very good book, but I am going to stop short of the glowing praise others have given it. While in some respects George Crane's use of descriptive language is excellent, I think it fell short more often than not. Nonetheless, I found the book was paced well, and very informative not only about the Ch'an monks of Inner Mongolia, but of the period in Maoist China known as The Great Leap Forward. The most stunning part of the book I found was the description of Tsung Tsai's exodus from China, particularly his train ride.	2001-05-07
US	52945213	R1CB7SANKMQRVI	031226769X	667140388	The Salt Point	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Even friends hide things from each other	The other reviews address the story line of this tale quite well. But what I found most interesting was how the introduction of a mysterious and somewhat sexually ambiguous young man into the midst of close friends suddenly changes what friendship means. No one comes out of this tale looking like a saint, and it will be a cold and calculating reader that will be unable to find a bit of themselves in each character. This book is a character study, with each character at the center of a series of set pieces. A reader looking for a clear plot line won't find one. But the characterizations are superb, the narrative voice expressing each character with an authenticity that is too infrequently found in much of today's literature.	2001-04-12
US	52945213	R1OPO6YEEKGI9L	0805210555	920707464	Franz Kafka: The Complete Stories	Books	5	46	48	N	N	A provoking volume	Until you read Kafka, many of us think we know Kafka based perhaps on anecdotal items we pick up in the media or from others. The mere fact there's the term &quot;Kafkaesque&quot; perhaps causes us to think we know what it means. But it is only when one reads Kafka do you begin to gain some insight into one of the most mysterious and yet hallowed writers of the 20th century.<br />This volume is really the place to begin. For in it are three of his more widely known novellas: In the Penal Colony, The Judgement, and Metamorphosis. But it is with the other stories that the reader that peruses rather than skims will undoubtedly begin to ask questions. What is Kafka trying to say in such a circuitous manner? What conflict tears at him to write these unusual tales? Because I think most readers will begin to wonder the same, realizing that Kafka felt passionate about something, but chose a metaphoric manner to present his idea so ingenious and subtle that I fear it is lost upon most readers. Clearly, Kafka struggled with something deeply personal. He was engaged twice to the same woman, and called off the engagement twice. And he prefered to live an uneventful, unnoticeable and undemanding life. He ridiculed the bureaucry, yet chose it as his vocation. To me, that is a key element to understanding his stories. And these more obscure tales do more to reveal what is meant by &quot;Kafkaesque&quot; than the grandiose volumes of The Castle, or Amerika. It is clear why so many of his prose strikes one as unfinished (besides the fact most of it was unfinished), because Kafka's own metamorphosis was incomplete. Had he not died from tuberculosis, perhaps he would have solved the conundrum of his personal life. Instead, we are left with these beautiful and mysterious tales that whisper something to us.	2001-02-23
US	52945213	R2UZKDOTLFN2JF	0805210644	840372638	Amerika	Books	3	6	10	N	N	One frustrating set piece after another	While others have called Amerika a comedic piece, I found the protagonist's, Karl Rossman, behavior and situations frustrating and aggravating. But being Kafka's first novel, I see him testing out a thesis that dominates much of his work: the individual suffering at the caprice of the rest of society.<br />And indeed, Rossman suffers! Seemingly everyone is out to take advantage of him and despite his desire to cling to &quot;virtue,&quot; (despite his less then virtuous behavior that landed him on the boat bound for Amerika), he is treated like a second-hand person without any savvy to cope with the world around him.<br />While reading the book, I kept asking myself, why is Rossman putting up with these situations? Why is he so timid to take action for himself? Why is he letting himself get bowled over by these rogues? I read the book all the way through, but several times I was tempted to put the damn thing down and not read any more.<br />But when I put it in the perspective I first mentioned, that it would become Kafka's theme that the individual is powerless against the societal forces around him, then I can see the characters as allegories rather than real people. And then we see Rossman not as the victim who is innocent, but we see him as the hypocrite that he is.<br />Still, the book is frustrating to read -- not because it's difficult, but simply because I found it impossible to identify with any character on a level where I wanted anyone to win. By the end of the book, I didn't give a hoot about Rossman and concluded that he got what he deserved.<br />One final note: Kafka wrote this manuscript without ever visiting the U.S. So his scenarios are based on what he thought the U.S. was like. In some cases, he was quite accurate in his portrayals, but in others, he was way off.<br />If you want to read Kafka, save this one for last. Read his other material first as it is far better.	2001-02-23
US	52945213	R1UZ1IIS23DPA8	1902593022	319129311	You Can't Win	Books	4	4	5	N	Y	An existential expression of early 20th century life	How does a lad come out of a Catholic school after willingly living a virtuous life to slide into the decadence of thievery and even murder? The poignant autobiography &quot;You Can't Win&quot; explains how without attempting to provide you with any justification. It just is.<br />In the song by the Clash &quot;The Magnificent Seven,&quot; Joe Strummer sings &quot;Socrates and Millhouse Nixon both took the same way, through the kitchen....you can be true, you can be false, you'll be given the same reward.&quot; This existential chant is at the heart of &quot;You Can't Win.&quot; And the book also provides the origin for the Johnson's, which show up in many of William Burroughs' books. These memorable characters had a code of ethics and honor, though we today might view such a code with suspicion. But placed in the context of the time and compared to the way the police behaved during those days before Miranda and other events that curtailed police corruption and brutality, today's reader can glean important historical information he or she might not have learned in school. History is indeed a moving tale that provides a picture painted by the teller, and students of history and humanity worth their salt are going to listen to as many tales as they can. Only then can they conclude that they may be nearer the truth than they were before. And &quot;You Can't Win&quot; provides a side of the truth that is well told and compelling.	2001-01-30
US	52945213	R3EZ6XOZC622LJ	0893818534	617497094	Coming of Age	Books	5	53	58	N	Y	A photographic journey through childhood	In no particular order, Will McBride presents to us a vision of childhood and youth, exposing its innocence, ennui, pride, exhuberance, despair and its loss. At first glance, this book may appear to be just a collection of portraits of boys in a variety of situations: some nude, some at play, some with family, some lost in their own thoughts. But in each photograph, McBride has managed to capture those emotions I listed, and more. None of the nudity is contrived nor is it exploitative. In some you can see the diffidence and anxiety in the subject, while in others you can see a nonchalance in the boy's posture exposing what? Trust in the photographer? Or the cynicism born out of some other, previous experience?<br />An excellent collection created by a photographer with an exceptional eye.	2001-01-02
US	52945213	R2J6YX540BJ6K3	0299150801	813349500	Farm Boys: Lives of Gay Men from the Rural Midwest	Books	5	15	16	N	Y	Exceptional documentation on rural gay men	Farm Boys includes the first person narratives of gay men who grew up on farms in the Midwest. Begun as a sociological study, the book is an excellent glimpse into the lives of rural gay men and their perceptions of their urban brothers.<br />Divided into three parts (men born early in the century, those born after WWII but before Stonewall, and those born after Stonewall), these narratives of varying length show how each succeeding group came to grips with being gay without the assistance of role models, help groups, or even knowledge that other men and boys like them lived in the same area as they.<br />Although there are some differences that separate the three groups, some common themes were shared by most. One, most of these rural men gave up their religious beliefs, but not their spirituality. They saw organized faiths as being hypocritical and having a facade, but this was not enough to cause them to doubt the exsistance of a god. Two, many of these men grew up in families that could be classified as &quot;don't talk, don't feel,&quot; especially when the subject was sex. Left on their own, many felt obligated to get married because they knew of no other way. And three, once they realized they were gay, this epiphany type revelation about themselves was often very self liberating.<br />Also of interest to me was the references to how media, such as Time Magazine, Life Magazine, and other outlets, addressed the topic of homosexuality 30 and 40 years ago, and how that portrayal continues to change. More of us being out, obviously, has had a cummulative effect to everyone's benefit, and will continue to do so.<br />A marvelous book, and highly recommended for anyone interested in the lives and history of gay men.	2000-12-12
US	52945213	RODGCEQAF5LWI	0385319231	712981334	OUTBURST - A Todd Mills Mystery	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Fast paced and holds your interest	It isn't often an investigative reporter gets to witness a murder, but Todd Mills does in this page-turner. What I really enjoyed about this book was how Mills follows down this story, tracking the murderer, coming to very reasonable conclusions based on the information he has. Zimmerman also reveals the typical flaw of most police investigators, in that their primary goal is often making an arrest, not necessarily solving the crime.<br />I also liked the characterizations in this book. Each character has a distinct identity and voice that is carried through all the way to the end. The settings were authentic, but didn't bear down on you and slow the pace. And Zimmerman's ironic use of the weather as another character is really ingenius.<br />I also liked the fact that the sex in this book was minimal and only there when it moved the story along. Yes, Mills' relationship with his cop friend, Steve, is devoid of any stirring romance, but this isn't a soft porn novel. It's a mystery.<br />What I don't like about the book is Todd's and Steve's relationship lacks plausibility in one serious area. And that is a reporter, a television reporter at that, has a love relationship with a cop in which each assists the other in their respective jobs. I'm having trouble with that one. Police and journalists traditionally have a very strong Us-Them type relationships, and while this can be overcome, to be overcome to the point that a crime reporter can have a love relationship with a murder investigator really requires a leap.<br />Having said that, the story is good. Perhaps most readers won't think about how odd it is that an investigative journalist gets it on with a muder investigator. Perhaps they won't think about the conflicts this type of relationship automatically brings forth. Or perhaps Zimmerman will mine this field of conflict with more realism. Perhaps he already has in the previous works. But I personally feel it would work better if Todd and Steve knew each other on a friendly, rather than intimate, basis. Such conflict would be tremendous and enthralling.on a friendly, rather than intimate, basis. Such conflict would be tremendous and enthralling.	2000-11-20
US	52945213	RW1TMEKJI05PA	9997531655	159268992	Dragon Harvest	Books	4	8	8	N	N	A fascinating historical novel	Lanny Budd -- a playboy, an art dealer who has Adolph Hitler as a client, and an American spy. Dragon Harvest is just one of several of the Lanny Budd series. But I haven't read the others yet. This one is good. I found particularly interesting the information about the origins of the Christian Identity movement being connected with Henry Ford, a well-known facist. Although Sinclair never names the Christian Identity movement by name, it is nonetheless unmistakeable when he describes the actions of Ford and the infamous Father Coughlin in the Detroit area through Lanny Budd's eyes. And the part about Hitler's fascination with psychics is not only a hoot, but provides tremendous page-turning excitement as well. These books are hard to find, but when you do, snap it up. That's what I'm doing, because they are entertaining and informative.	2000-11-17
US	52945213	RREPDXMGDU8MG	0140157654	273591516	Before Night Falls: A Memoir	Books	5	3	3	N	N	A must read for anyone interested in Castro's Cuba or Arenas	This autobiography is essential reading to not only know about Arenas' life, but to better understand growing up in Castro's Cuba. The similarities to Soviet life are there, but Arenas also reveals the uniquely &quot;Cuban&quot; way of doing things in a communist regime. And after reading this, one can gain a better appreciation for his published works and understand the difficult phantasmagoric style Arenas employs in his story telling. Arenas is able to transform ugliness, difficulty and exteme deprivation into literary beauty, something that often cannot be accomplished without first experiencing intense suffering.	2000-11-06
US	52945213	R2JW8MX4Q2PJF7	0140187529	452467692	The Wayward Bus (Twentieth-century Classics)	Books	4	11	14	N	N	It's a good book	Unlike some, I think The Wayward Bus did have a plot, and a fairly well defined plot. And unlike others, I think this was a good book, but not a great one. True, it is strong on character development, but good books usually are. And it followed the standard steps in fiction plot development: set the stage with what is happening and why, then begin to introduce the characters, establish the individual conflicts, and then carry them all to the climactic conflict followed by the resolution. Steinbeck does just that with The Wayward Bus and shows how we all are often caught up in our own little dramas while all around us another drama unfolds. Some of us are just a little more aware of the gestalt than others. And like life, Steinbeck has characters that have their good points and their bad points, and while as a reader I at times was angered or puzzled by the way a character behaved, I didn't hate them or wished them ill. And probably best of all, like any good novel, all of the characters changed by the end of the book. They learned something about themselves. Life had its impact, and the reader has the opportunity to witness it.<br />Again, it's a good book, and well worth reading.	2000-09-27
US	52945213	R3VM6668FB49B8	0061056243	98363606	Antibodies (The X-Files)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Best of a good series so far	&quot;Antibodies&quot; is the best so far of a decent series of X-Files  novelizations, the last three authored by Kevin J. Anderson. &quot;Ground  Zero&quot; is a very close second, which was also penned by  Anderson.<br />What is so enthralling about &quot;Antibodies&quot; is that  elements from the television series are woven into this story in a manner  that that flows naturally with the narrative. Scully's combat with cancer  in the TV series is used as a motivating factor in the novel, but her  internal conflicts over her potential for motherhood is subtly worked in as  well. Anderson does a little better also at injecting Mulder's sarcasm into  the dialogue. His quips are more natural than they have been in other  novels, which in my opinion came off as being forced.<br />And the book even  has a brief, but significant appearance, of another important character  from the television series.<br />In all, I sensed Anderson's comfort with the  characters, and I do hope there are other novelizations in the works. It  would be a shame for the series to switch authors again now that Anderson  has shown his expertise at crafting an X-File story with characters that  ring true to the series in a manner that they don't come off as  two-dimentional or even cartoonish.<br />How about it Anderson? Let's crank  out a few more!	2000-09-07
US	52945213	R192PKO8KQDO0D	0679744398	270121541	All the Pretty Horses (The Border Trilogy, Book 1)	Books	5	5	6	N	N	No superlative too great	Many readers have written many things about this book, and some of their  comments I find curious. But the single word I feel comfortable using to  describe this work is stunning, because I was truly stunned by its beauty,  its pace, its ability to capture the human spirit.<br />If this is a coming of  age tale, then it is the quintessential example of this genre. McCarthy's  style is so unique, yet bears well when compared to the eloquence and  characterization of Faulkner and the rhythmic beauty of Marquez, as  McCarthy's style encapsulates the best of these authors while retaining its  own voice. Reading this tale is enthralling and exhausting.	2000-08-29
US	52945213	R278EBBXU9A3EP	0312059965	236924383	Why Isn't Becky Twitchell Dead?: A Mystery (Tom & Scott Mysteries)	Books	4	5	5	N	N	A fast and enjoyable read	I consumed this mystery in very short time. Like all good mysteries, the murder is revealed in the first chapter (in this book on page 4!). The past  is fast and furious, leading the reader through a maze of character  relationships held together with drug dealing, jealousies and suspicions,  and of course murder. This was the third Zubro book I've read (Political  Poison, and Another Dead Teenager being the other two) and it has renewed  my faith in the author as a competent crafter of murder mysteries.  Characterization remains a weakness for Zubro, however. His characters at  times are difficult to differentiate: primarily they speak the same. He  shrewdly and effectively uses how they dress and what their home  environments look like to establish their character, as well as creates  interesting set pieces for them to move and act within, but as soon as they  open their mouths, they sound like everyone else.<br />But his strength  remains crafting plausible plot lines that hold you and tease you enough to  wonder if you really know who did it. I thoroughly enjoyed this book and  will continue to acquire and read his others.	2000-08-17
US	52945213	RJDC8WWISEYV5	0195122925	75623957	Forbidden Friendships: Homosexuality and Male Culture in Renaissance Florence (Studies in the History of Sexuality)	Books	5	33	39	N	Y	Eye opening scholarship	Michael Rocke's tome on male culture and sexuality in Renaissance Florence is a tremendous work that provides exceptional insight into male sexuality.  After reading this, only the most obdurate student of gay life and history  could fail to attain a more significant understanding of the present-day  forces that seek to quash gays and their efforts for equality under the  law. Rocke's careful research of 15th- and 16th-century documents  unequivocably shows that if not most, quite nearly a mjority of Florentine  males at the time had sex at least once with another male. The significance  of such a finding should not be missed.<br />Present day gays roll their eyes  whenever they encounter the supposition that a person can &quot;be made  gay&quot; or &quot;converted&quot; to being gay because of the firm belief  that one's sexuality is predominantly innate. But after reading Rocke's  book, one can't help but see how males that today would undoubtedly be  identified as heterosexual had freely enjoyed sex with other males. The  significance of this, however, should not be interpreted to mean that one's  sexuality is entirely a choice. It does, however, provide an understanding  of why some homophobes fear gays.<br />The Dominican cleric Savonarola's  rhetoric in the war he waged against sodomy in Florence provides a  historical background as well for understanding the position of today's  Religious Right and its stance against gays. Savonarola figures heavily in  Rocke's book and the author provides wonderful detail on the political  machinations of the time, a politic that essentially recognized the need to  publicly take a stand against sodomy, but in practicality often lacked the  nerve to do what was necessary to rid the city of &quot;this  vice.&quot;<br />Anyone interested in the history surrounding gays and  homosexuality is strongly urged to add this title to their list.	2000-08-13
US	52945213	R1A7XUH2ZKEW23	0394574753	179801447	The Crossing	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Mesmerizing and tragic	Life doesn't promise us any rewards, even if we live good and virtuously. For most of us, life is &quot;filled with quiet desperation,&quot; and such is the case for Billy Parham, the protagonist in The Crossing.<br />Divided  into two parts, in the first Billy tracks down a wolf that has been killing  his family's cattle. Yet when he succeeds, he cannot kill the animal,  recognizing in the mammal no animosity or maliciousness. So the boy takes  the wolf down into Mexico where he plans to release it. His attempt is  challenged by the motives and caprice of humans, and eventually  foiled.<br />When he returns to his home in southwestern New Mexico, he finds  his parents murdered, their horses stolen. Billy retrieves his younger  brother who was taken in by a town family, and the duo go back into Mexico  to seek their family's horses. Again, their objective is continually  challenged, and despite Billy's virtuous intentions, he loses everything  and returns to a lonely and parapetetic life.<br />The story includes  allegorical encounters with other characters who reveal the cruelty of life  to Billy. They remind us that life owes us nothing. And that for some of  us, no matter how deserving, life brings us only failure.<br />You will need  to be familiar with Spanish, as some of the characters, as well as Billy,  speak it in the book and no translation is provided.<br />This book is  extremely strong on character, while the plot line is considerably weaker.  If you enjoy such books, in which the conflicts are just as dynamic  internally as externally, then The Crossing will reward you. However, if  you prefer books that are strong with plots that propel characters forward,  you will be disappointed.	2000-07-10
US	52945213	R3FUSIUKCAB6EN	014009444X	977315046	Singing from the Well (Pentagonia)	Books	5	14	15	N	N	A lyrical masterpiece of suffering	&quot;There went my mother, she just went running out the door. She was screaming like a crazy woman that she was going to jump down the well. I see my mother at the bottom of the well. I see her floating in the greenish water choked with leaves. So I run for the yard, out to where the well is, that's fenced around with a wellhead of naked-boy saplings so rickety it's almost falling in.&quot;<br />So begins Singing from the Well. In some respects, this book reminds me of Faulkner's The Sound and the Fury. In Singing from the Well, we read the tale of a young boy in the poverty of pre-revolutionary Cuba, a tale in which the characters are not only the boy's family, but who are allegories for Cuba. The narrative jumps about and is mixed with both what the boy sees as real and what he fantasizes about. Reality for the boy holds violence, both at the hands of his peers and his family. So he takes solice in another reality that includes his dead cousin Celestino, who carves beautiful poetry into the trunks of trees.<br />This is the first book in a series by Arenas that follows this boy's life during the period just before the revolution. It is a tremendously moving book, but cannot be considered uplifting. The reader who takes the challenge to read this will be rewarded.	2000-07-10
US	52945213	R3O7J9B2VD5OZB	0440212170	827991463	Deadfall in Berlin	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Opens with a bang and doesn't let up!	When I studied writing techniques for mysteries, one of the first lessons  I learned was that if you don't have your dead body show up in the first  chapter, you had better have it in the second chapter. Deadfall In Berlin  immediately takes the reader to the book's central murder and then  catapults the reader into a psychological mystery that is both  extraordinary and rivetting.<br />Will is an actor living in Chicago in 1975  who has been going through hynoptherapy when at home and alone during an  autohypnosis session, he regresses back to when he was 10 years old, living  in war-torn Berlin during the Allied bombing. He witnesses his mother's  murder, but the details are sketchy. When he tells his therapist of the  experience, he finds that he is being stalked by a mystery person  apparently bent on killing him. Is that person the same as who killed  Will's mother? To find out, his therapist sends him into a deep trance back  to Berlin to relive those last few days when one of the most glorious  cities in Europe was reduced to rubble.<br />The descriptions of Berlin during  the Allied bombing are incredible. Zimmerman did his historical homework  well. The tale he weaves moves quickly, but smoothly. There were no lapses  in plausibility: the descriptions and character actions are entirely  believable. This the first book by Zimmerman I have read, and you can be  sure that I will read more.	2000-07-10
US	52945213	R3CU2VOIDFO4LK	0140097929	815567464	The Palace of the White Skunks: A Novel	Books	5	14	14	N	N	Exceptional	In this, the second book of five about revolutionary Cuba, Arenas brings  us into the city to continue on the life of Fortunato, the boy narrator  introduced in Singing from the Well. Fortunato is older now, and the  narrative reflects this maturity by following a more chronological format.  But his torment, misery and anger is no less. Always in the background is  the gunfire of the reveloution which captivates Fortunato and eventually  ensnares him.<br />While less difficult than Singing from the Well, The Palace  of the White Skunks is still no easy read. Yet both books are  extraordinary. Anyone interested in reading Latin American authors must  include Arenas.	2000-07-10
US	52945213	R26PTKFMAMJ4P8	0877456690	4027327	King James and Letters of Homoerotic Desire	Books	4	24	26	N	Y	Fascinating, but a bit esoteric	I write this review from the perspective of one who is interested in reading about the history and documentation of same-sex love, but who is not an academic, a linguist, or has any special interest in the history of  literary styles. I offer this explanation because while this book is  tremendously fascinating in its historic and biographical material, it at  times lost my interest when going deeply into literary interpretation and  syntactic analysis. For example, the first chapter on the history and style  of writing love letters, or &quot;letters of desire&quot; as the author  coins it, I found uninspiring and difficult. However, it does lay the  groundwork for the author's study of James' letters.<br />Having said that, I  nonetheless found the book extremely informative, both about James' life  and how his contemporaries viewed his life.<br />The first section covers  James' association with Esme Stuart who became the Duke of Lennox. What was  of particular interest to me was the fact James was just 13 years old and  Stuart 37 when they first met. The description of their first meeting makes  it unmistakeable to the reader that the two had indeed fallen in love. The  biographical information on how the church leaders and other politicos  involved in James' life broke up the relationship was extremely interesting  and saddening. But the reader shouldn't interpret these actions as purely  coming from the realm of the church's &quot;condemnation of  homosexuality.&quot; Because there was no such thing at the time as  &quot;homosexuality.&quot; That was a term and a concept that wouldn't be  coined for another 200 years. Rather, the condemnation was over &quot;lying  with a man as though a woman.&quot; Because of James' young age, it is  quite possible that he had taken the submissive role, or that his advisors  presumed that he was taking the submissive role. What really happened we  don't know. But if the king were in a submissive role, then Stuart was  having an undo influence over the young king. Having the king taking the  role of a woman would have been blasphemous.<br />This notion is given further  support during the chapter discussing the king's relationship with George  Villiers, the Duke of Buckingham. In one of the king's letters, he refers  to Buckingham as not only his &quot;dear son&quot; and the king the father,  but also as &quot;wife&quot; and the king being &quot;husband.&quot; In one  letter, Buckingham writes: &quot;my thoughts are only bent of having my  dear Dad and master's legs soon in my arms.&quot; This phrase also suggests  that Buckingham took the submissive role in his relationship with the  king.<br />Which fits in naturally with the culture of the times. Both James  and his &quot;favorites&quot; married and sired children, as the king saw  marriage and raising a family an obligation to be joyfully fulfilled. And  throughout Renaissance Europe, it was acceptable for a man to play the  dominate (top) role during sexual relations with another male, with the  submissive generally being younger because it was then excusable for the  youth to be a bottom because he was in a submissive role anyway because of  age.<br />It is also made clear in the book that James' other advisors  disapproved of his relationships with his favorites not so much because  they viewed the physical relationship as being immoral, but because of  James' lavish endowment of titles and gifts, and consequently power to his  favorites. The book does reveal critics, both contemporary and later, of  the king's behavior who found the intimacy of these relationships unseemly  and even &quot;disgusting.&quot; And it is amusing to read how some of  these critics eschewed discussing in detail the nature of the  relationships.<br />In all it is a good book, but for the general reader of  the history of same-sex relationships, it may be a bit troublesome and slow  to plod through. For example, if I read the book at night while in bed, Iusually fell asleep after just one page. If I read it in the morning, then  I could read upward of a dozen or so pages.usually fell asleep after just one page. If I read it in the morning, then  I could read upward of a dozen or so pages.	2000-07-02
US	52945213	R1DNTO3OD6RCKR	1555830064	868971681	The Men with the Pink Triangle: The True Life-and-Death Story of Homosexuals in the Nazi Death Camps	Books	4	23	27	N	Y	We need more books like this one	A tremendously moving and easy to read book, The Men With the Pink Triangle provides the reader with not only descriptions of the horrific treatment suffered by gays in the Nazi camps, but also provides insight  into the intra-camp politics among the prisoners. The anonymous narrator  provides details on how the &quot;capos&quot; and the criminal prisoners  operated, and how one could &quot;survive&quot; one's incarceration as long  as one was willing to accept the camp heirarchy.<br />But by far, the  descriptions of the brutality of the SS troops in the camps is the most  rivitting. The terse language of the narrative increases the decriptions'  impact. There's no intellectualizing this abuse in this tome.  Unfortunately, we need more books like this one. But I'm afraid many of  those gays who survived the camps are still unwilling to speak, and that is  largely because of how they were treated after the camps were  &quot;liberated.&quot; The Nazis were brutal in their treatment, but you  knew where they stood because the Nazis didn't hide their contempt.  Bureaucrats today, however, are much more sinister.	2000-06-04
US	52945213	R6GNABO5YJ5CH	0312110448	550771775	Political Poison: A Paul Turner Mystery (Paul Turner Mysteries)	Books	2	1	1	N	N	Not his best	This is the second Zubro mystery I have read, and it was not near as good as the first one, &quot;Another Dead Teenager.&quot; However, I am not deterred from reading all of his work, and I will continue to purchase the  new ones as they are published.<br />What I criticized in &quot;Another Dead  Teenager&quot; I found to be much worse in &quot;Political Poison,&quot;  and that is Zubro's continually interjecting explanations for a character's  actions or of police procedure. It was a moderate bother in the other book,  but in &quot;Political Poison&quot; it is a major impediment to enjoying  the book. The editing was slipshod as well, with many typos and other  errors in the text. Zubro apparently has improved at telling his stories by  letting the characters reveal what is going on, rather than stepping into  and stopping the flow to provide an explanation.<br />Most mystery readers are  savvy enough to know how things work, and don't need constant reminders on  why police do the things they do.<br />If you haven't read any of Zubro's work  before, don't start with this one. He is a much better mystery writer than  what this novel exemplifies.	2000-05-24
US	52945213	R15GKJNTTVUY7T	1575000377	572854020	Riding The Rails	Books	5	13	13	N	Y	Profoundly moving	My interest in this book was sparked by a bit of family history. A great-uncle of mine hoboed on trains before the 1920s. Born in 1900, he was attempting to hop a train in 1919 in Chicago, but lost his grip, fell from  the car, and lost a leg beneath the train. All I know about this uncle was  from a newspaper clipping from 1919 when a brave reporter interviewed my  great-uncle just before he died from the infection in his leg.<br />The  stories in &quot;Riding the Rails&quot; were tremendously moving to me. It  gave me a perspecitive of the Depression and of Hoboes I hadn't had before.  The personal stories were incredible, and the lucidity of expression by  these people looking back on those difficult years was accurately relayed  in the book. More than once I had to stop reading because of the tears in  my eyes. I know this must sound melodramatic, but this book really moved  me. But also, I must say this book reaffirmed my faith in human kindness  and the perseverance of the human spirit.	2000-05-22
US	52945213	RDRL7OGZAYKG7	0312142773	577155444	Another Dead Teenager: A Paul Turner Mystery (Paul Turner Mysteries)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	I'm going to read all of Zubro's	This was the first &quot;gay&quot; mystery I've read, and I now want to eventually obtain and read all of Zubro's mysteries. The pace is fast and smooth for the most part in this book, but at times becomes choppy.  Nonetheless, Zubro's intimate knowledge of police procedure and activity is  plain, as well as his knowledge of the streets of Chicago. Zubro also  weaves well into the story Paul Turner's (he's the protagonist) personal  life in a meaningful way that in this book is actually part of the main  plot. The characters become three dimentional, taking on lives of their  own. The only criticism I have for Zubro is he spends too much time telling  things to the reader, rather than letting the plot reveal what is going on.  Such as little asides to explain why a character did something. These  asides slow down the pace and can be condescending to readers already  familiar with how police work. The best aspect of this book is how Zubro  portray's a gay character as a human being rather than an icon. It is my  hope that Mr. Zubro will provide us with many such mysteries in the future,  and I look forward to reading those he has already published.	2000-05-22
US	52945213	R3NKWL0WBMVVBK	0252022092	936641237	Pederasty and Pedagogy in Archaic Greece	Books	5	34	38	N	Y	A very readable and provoking book.	I am by no means a Greek historian or scholar, but I find thisbook to be exceptionally well documented, and even in those areaswhere the author admits the hard evidence is scant, he carefully lays out his hypothesis to support his conclusions. The book provides a fascinating insight into how previous historians downplayed or ignored the evidence of wide-spread pederasty and male-male relations during the Archaic period, particularly when references to the phenomenon were quite clear in Aristotle's and Socrates' works.  The author also clearly differentiates &quot;pederasty&quot; (sex between postpubescent youth and adult males) from &quot;pedophilia&quot; (sex between prepubescent boys and adult males), noting the evidence showing that pedophilia was not a condoned behavior in Archaic Greece. This work is an excellent place to begin for anyone who wishes to trace how previous civilizations not only tolerated, but in some instances even encouraged, male-male relationships until the purveyors of the Judeo-Christian model vigorously proselytized their beliefs and shunned the behavior out of the mainstream. Whether a reader believes homosexuality is a moral aberration is irrelevant. If the reader can cast aside his or her preconceptions, this becomes a truly fascinating work.	2000-03-23
US	52945213	R2XOOIFKGB9WM8	080501389X	689898426	John Marshall: Definer of a Nation	Books	5	76	79	N	N	This book is a prize!	I am neither a historian nor an academic. But I am a journalist who covers the courts, and I have frequently heard attorneys mutter this or that about the &quot;infamous&quot; Marbury v. Madison decision. I bought the book after visiting the Supreme Court and read it immediately upon my return.  Smith's narrative is well paced. And the historic content is not presented  like a textbook or even a well-written academic tome. Rather, it reads like  a biography should, telling the tale based on letters and other memorabilia  and done so without excessive interpretation. While I was aware of  Marshall's significant place in history in terms of Marbury v. Madison, I  had no idea of his key roles in other events that shaped our nation. If you  like history but don't like academic minutia, you will love this book as I  have.	2000-03-08
US	52945213	R1PKUOG7YE2U5P	0465045006	372415843	I, Pierre Seel, Deported Homosexual: A Memoir Of Nazi Terror	Books	4	22	24	N	N	A very moving book that needs to be read widely.	Pierre Seel's memoirs of being detained in a Nazi concentration camp because he was homosexual is a powerfull and well documented treatise on what happend to gays during the Nazi regime. I'd give it five stars except  that the last half of the book focuses on the trouble he faced as a gay man  in post-war France in trying to gain compensation from the government for  his experience, something other camp survivors received. Maybe that's the  editor in me. That information is important to the book, but Seel failed in  my view to give that portion of the book the same power he gave to the  first two-thirds. Either way, this is a book people need to read. It adds  to the evidence to show that the tripe others publish in an attempt to show  that gays and Nazis were somehow in bed together is nothing more than more  reactionary rhetoric designed to work your emotions. Because if you examine  the evidence, you soon find that such a treatise is severely lacking.	2000-03-08
US	52945213	R91B5T8J1K2GT	0312952287	148927712	The Man Who Killed Boys: The John Wayne Gacy, Jr. Story	Books	3	15	17	N	Y	Only touches the surface.	Linedecker's description of the events as they were portrayed in the media is accurate and complete. Trouble is, it appears he simply went to all the old newspaper articles to cull the information he needed. He also managed to go through police reports. But this books is scant on first person  interviews. All the quotes in the book appear to have been taken from  newspapers. The book follows an easy narrative, one that is logical and  continues to move forward. I agree with another reviewer's comment that the  narrative at times is homophobic. But that's not surprising from a book  originally published in 1980. While this book is lacking in content, it  should not be ignored by those who are interested in Gacy. It at least  provides a perspective of how the horrific events of the murders were  revealed, as well as the typical nonchalance police exhibit when confronted  with missing teen reports.	2000-03-08
US	52945213	R1F8SD0FBQRYDD	0140165320	722785814	Serious Pleasures: The Life of Stephen Tennant	Books	4	9	10	N	N	Fascinating reading!	A very good biography of an extraordinary man. The text follows a chronological format and does very well at relating information in a readable and interesting style. The author makes no judgment regarding  Tennant's sexuality, but merely relates the subject's actions and the  reactions of his friends and others. The reader is still able to remain  sympathetic with the subject despite Tennant's occasional and extreme  arrogance and caprice with his friends. I would have liked more  photographs, but the ones included are excellent additions to the text. If  you have interests in the British upper class and want some insight into  the &quot;Fine Young Things&quot; of the 20s and early 30s, this book will  be a welcomed addition to your library.	2000-02-15
US	52945213	R208PGJMTKQ7LV	044021646X	940845121	The Misbegotten Son:  The True Story of Arthur J. Shawcross	Books	4	3	3	N	Y	Excellent presentation of a complex figure	Olsen takes the fascinating story of Arthur Shawcross and weaves a narrative that seldom slows down and offers insight into the serial killer's mind without sounding pedantic.	1998-12-28
