US	52948047	RTGQZ41ZNWL5N	080909326X	478948214	The Third Reich: A New History	Books	4	10	16	N	N	A moral view of Nazi Germany	I picked up this massive tome with the anticipation of being served up something akin to Shire's excellent \\"The Rise and Fall of the Third Reich\\".  Had I not read that book with it's emphasis on the organization, personalities and political history of the Nazis, Burleigh's work would have been even harder to follow then it was. It is implied that you have read it already or something like it, perhaps even Mein Kampf -- though the author rarely cites the latter and the former not at all --  and assumed you know the difference between a Gauleiter and Gruppenfhrer or are fully aware of the nature of the events and party infighting behind the Night of the Long Knives.  <br /> <br />You will find little information in this book about the roots of Nazism or the events that led to it's rise; nor will you get more than a glimpse of characterization of it's principal actors.  Having said that, A New History fills in some gaps left out of the popular William L. Shire work and others in the areas of economy, government, policy, and society with a very heavy emphasis on the crimes of Nazi Germany. <br /> <br />Burleigh does not try to hide -- and neither necessarily should he -- a personal bias that should be lacking in the objective observer in his view of seeing Nazi Germany as nothing but a state of pure evil with hatred it's only raison d'etre and who's only historic legacy was mass murder.  The narrative does a fine job of identifying the evolution and natural progression from eugenics to euthanasia to murders-of-convenience during wartime to large scale assembly-line genocide.  And yet, after we are told how it happened, we are still left to wonder -- and continue to wonder today, even as our own inner demons lead to events such as an abu gharib -- about the nature of the psyche that could lead sane people in a highly civilized culture to sink into barbarity.	2005-10-13
US	52948047	R2LUKFYD6HBLBP	0399149325	994558302	Portrait of a Killer: Jack the Ripper--Case Closed	Books	2	2	5	N	N	Little Substance, Much Inuendo	<br />Cornwell presents absolutely no facts for her case.  Moreover, she reveals an overall lack of knowledge about the case; not suprising since before she started the book she admitted she knew hardly anything about the Ripper murders.  <br />Instead of presenting facts, Cornwell shamelessly maligns a great artist with her blind, baseless assumptions.  At best, she might have a case for Sickert having written a few hoax letters, but there were thousands of such hoax letters and absolutely none of them have ever been successfully tied to the killer.<br />I think Cornwell should stick to writing fiction, for she certainly is no journalist and doesn't seem to understand the difference between investigative reporting and stroy telling.	2003-03-13
US	52948047	R21IJX7KMHH9TU	0028642252	743862672	The Complete Idiot's Guide(R) to the Mafia	Books	3	23	24	N	N	A Minimalist History of the Mafia	Trying to establish a true history of the Mafia, one that is both explicit and accurate, is about as meaningful as a trying to put together a true history of the CIA or Kennedy Assassination.  There are two kinds of writers of Mafia, those who overstate its power and influence and those who understate it.  Capeci is among the latter, though it seems for no obvious reason other than opinion given the minimal use of sources and bibliographical materials he documents, hardly sufficient justification.  I suspect the truth probably lies somewhere in between.<br />The strength of this book is the information it provides about recent Mafia history particularly of the 5 New York Families, largely derived from Capeci?s journalistic and law enforcement sources. Here he excels and seems to know his material quite well.  It falls short, however, in being a comprehensive, or even good or entertaining account of that overall history.  I would recommend Stephen Fox?s Blood and Power and Nash?s Encyclopedia of Organized Crime for that. <br />The non-NY families are given scant coverage in this book and some very important moments in LCN history, such as the 1930 Atlantic City Conference establishing the current ?System? as it is known today envisioned by Johnny Torio, are not even mentioned, while the importance of other?s such as Luciano?s role in the Castellemmarese wars, is understated.  <br />Though it is true that they aren?t as powerful as they once were, Capeci?s assumption that the MOB is dead in many states and all but extinct in others seems a bit pre-mature at best and ignores the LCN?s resiliency and adjustment to new circumstance, both threats and opportunities, that it has shown in the past, as well as it?s ability to adapt defensively to changes in tactics of the legal system and law enforcement that has kept it around for so long.  <br />Overall a good starter, with valuable info on recent events of the 5 NY families, but hardly thorough and very dry in delivery.	2003-02-06
US	52948047	R1HUKMZSEHODRT	0814735894	570668519	Mafia and Mafiosi: Origin, Power, and Myth	Books	5	5	7	N	N	The Mafia Does not Exist	So runs the theme of this most excellent work by Sociologist Henner Hess.  In point of fact, the Mafiosi came well before the Mafia, a secret crime organization supposedly having it's roots deep in history:  in reality, such a Mafia never existed, and what most of us think of today as the Mafia is mainly a fairly recent example of life imitating art.  <br />The subculture of Mafiosi had its beginnings in the 1860s as an extension of feudalism in Sicily.  In Hess's book we meet the true Mafiosi, uomo d'onore, a man of honor, the Godfather.  He is the Don who is the self-made man, able to do well for himself and his family, able to solve his own problems without help from the State, which he disdains.  This is the Mafia of Don Corleone, a man of respect who uses illegal methods to protect the land owning nobility he tenants and advance his own means through extortion, intimidation, theft, and of course, murder.<br />Hess easily dismisses the historical fallacies of an ancient foundation for a Mafia, rooted in culture, religion, Freemasonry or other popular esoteric sources.  Surprisingly, the Mafia of secret rituals and structured crime families competing and cooperating on an immense scale in international crime is a relatively recent phenomenon in Italy, one imported from America.  Indeed, the American Mafiosi's Sicilian country cousin has been as much influenced by him and the movies and books such as the Godfather about him, that this once mainly agrarian phenomenon has changed to meet those concepts.  It was not until well after publication of the Godfather that the Coreleonisi Mafiosi, wanting to imitate the artistic depiction of their own values of Omerta, made themselves the most powerful crime Organization in Italy.<br />This is a truly fascinating read, both scholarly and entertaining, and the most reliable book on the origins of the Sicilian Mafia I have come across.	2003-01-24
US	52948047	R2RWUP9S9DW4QL	0671728318	158372365	Flicker	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Subliminal Gnosticsm:  The Secret History of the Cinema	I came upon this book when it was first published at a signing by the author at a now defunct Berkeley cinema that was showing a trio of early horror films (Caligari, Nosferatu, the Black Cat).  What a perfect backdrop to the story, which I hadn't as yet read, made even more sinister by Prof. Roszak's introduction to the films and his warning to watch the corners of the screen for the subliminal messages, hidden in light and shadow, from the nefarious Max Castle.  <br />Max seems to be modeled after the father of film noir cinematography, Karl Freund.  The occult ambiance of German Expressionism filmaking of which Castle (aka Freund) was a part under UFA, pervades the novel Flicker, setting an ominous mood thoughout. <br />The concpiracy of who really controls film and filmaking should not be even hinted at in a review.  Suffice it to say that it bears the flavor of Eco, Pynchon and Robert Anton Wilson.<br />This is a fun read and will get you to want to find out more about the historic themes that udnerly the presmise of the conspiracy.	2002-12-23
US	52948047	R1I7IX8YJS08DY	0810838818	5793863	The UFO Evidence - Volume 2 : A Thirty Year Report	Books	3	13	33	N	N	Secondary Sources Limit the Value of this Research	On the surface,  UFO Evidence V II. is an extremely facinating read that will leave you amazed and puzzled:  what are we to make of all this 'evidence'?   And while it is indeed thorough in coverage and apparently much more objective than most UFO studies, it's not saying much.  The reason is that the so-called 'evidence' is of little value when not subjected to scientific scrutiny;  coming from secondary sources of dubious worth, we are asked to accept it at face value.<br />To exmplify, using an oft-repated expression favored by Charles Fort when citing so called 'data' of uncertain provenance and specificity from his own favorite sources of 'scientific data' such as newspapers and enthusiat magazines: &quot;For All I Know, the pilot who said he saw this Flying Suacer was drunk to the gills that day!&quot;   No wonder scientists can't take the phenomenon seriously.<br />When I bought this book, having heared of NICAP's reputation, I was expecting primary evidence gathered in a manner similiar to that for Project Blue Book, using rigorous standards of data collection by objective inquierers.  Instead I got a rehash of stories from 30 years worth of &quot;Foo-ology&quot; Books.	2002-11-14
US	52948047	R3JXYKCIBS19EE	1582341761	871434661	The Outfit: The Role of Chicago's Underworld in the Shaping of Modern America	Books	4	13	17	N	N	Good Account Marred by Some Dubious Secondary Resources	This  book is really about the life of Muriel Humphreys who was the brains of the Outfit since the Capone days.  Much of the material is new, coming as it does from his Widow and her recounting of her knowledge of Humprheys' life in the Outfit that fills in some of the gaps of what was previously known of the shadowy history of the Chicago Mob.  <br />I would recommend this book to anyone interested in the true workings of Chicago Organized Crime with the caveat to beware of some of the accounts described in the book.  Be sure to read the footnotes, for some of the secondary sources the author uses are of dubious worth and validity.	2002-11-14
US	52948047	R2VH74OTN2MNNQ	0316321400	832440855	The Last Testament of Lucky Luciano	Books	5	17	20	N	N	Entertaining, Straight-Forward and Believable	Straight from the horse's mouth.  Lucky's testament jives with other reliable accounts of the inner workings of organized crime while filling in a lot of gaps on the development and early history of the five NY families.<br />For the most part the information appears reliable, although in some cases, such as Lucky's professed denial of his significant involvement in the international drug trade, it seems clear that he 'dost protest too much.'<br />Lucky's claims about his involvement --or lack thereof-- in Operation Underworld, the WWII Naval Intellegence op to keep the NY docks safe, as well as the invasion of Sicily, also seem to ring true.  Like Giancanna, Trafficante and Rosselli in a later clandestine relationship with CIA to kill Castro, it was all a scam.  I can even believe Lucky's claim that he actually engineered the sabotage of the Normandie to kick the whole scheme off.<br />But what the 'Testament' provides best of all is a close look from Lucky's perspective at the personalities and relationships of the most infamous members of Cosa Nostra and their associates:  <BR>Lucky knew them all.<br />Lucky was indeed, The Godfathe	2002-01-08
US	52948047	R1ZXRHM7E8BRVJ	0517167220	942458047	Mob Lawyer	Books	5	19	19	N	N	Straight-Forward &amp; Believable: Hoffa, the Mob, Kennedys	A Straight-Forward and seemingly reliable Mob-insider's account by one of the LCN's top lawyers.  Ragano is no name dropper, nor is he full of it.  He was a top Lawyer for both Hoffa and Santo Trafficante from the late 50s through the 80s.<br />The books explores the life of Tampa lawyer Ragano and his close relationship to Santo Trafficante.  This is one of the few, if not only books, that examines the life of this shadowy, but important mobster who by his own and others' admission, was involved in planned or real assassinations of Castro and JFK.<br />Ragano's account of his dealings with Hoffa and Trafficante and his association with a who's-who of Organized Crime personalities- Carlos Marcello, Luchesse, Gooodfellow's mobsters Henry Hill and Jimmy Burke, Sinatra, Alan Dorfman (who milked the Central States Pesnion fund for all it was worth) and others -- is told without nonsenes and in a fully credible way.<br />Ragano is not a conspiracy nut, nor does he come across as one who makes up stories.  Neither was Trafficante.  So that is why when Ragano reveals what was told him by Trafficante about Hoffa's and JFK's murders, accounts which jive with other and most prevelant thoughts about those killings, I think he can be taken at his word.  Clearly, it should come as no suprise that the Mafia was involved in those murders.  And while not much is added to details of JFK's assassination, the death of Hoffa is clearly related, including the names of the triggermen and who ordered the hit.<br />Unlike some mob-insider accounts I have read, where the subject's integrity is of little worth and the story sometimes hard to swallow, 'Mob Lawyer' is both profound, soul searching and entertaining.	2002-01-08
US	52948047	R1DDG2RYZX6D1H	0786709197	885675907	The Mammoth Book of Best New Horror, Volume 12	Books	5	13	14	N	N	A Fine Crop of Horror Stories this Year	Volume XII is arguably one of the best so far in the Best New Horror series.  Packed with 494 pages of 22 stories and novellas, and including a definitive necrology and intro to the state of horror in 2000, it is well worth a read.  Here are just some, but by no means all, of the gems you'll find inside:<br />Kim Newman continues his Alternate History Anno Dracula series with the short story \\"Castle in the Desert\\" and the novella \\"The Other Side of Midnight\\".  IMHO, The latter is one of Newman's best works so far.  Using the narrative hard-boiled detective story style of James Ellroy and Raymond Chandler, Newman walks us through the Hollywood noir of the 1980s in a world where the Vampire has become grudgingly accepted by the human race.  Newman's main character is a beautiful, but ancient vampire detective involved in a mystery surrounding the making of Orson Welles' remake of Dracula.  Along the way we meet the likes of Lt. Columbo, Barbie the Vampire Slayer and other familiar real and imagined characters in a world where true film and tabloid history become twisted.<br />In \\"I have a Special Plan for this World\\", a story of Corporate Horror, Thomas Ligotti  gives us a nihilistic vision of a Dark Dilbert's rapid, but futile rise up the corporate ladder after his mysterious fog-shrouded company moves to Murderville and all it's management are slowly killed off. <br />Several of the stories follow in the style of some familiar women writers of horror.  Two stories, Tim Lebbon's \\"The Repulsion\\", and Kathryn Ptacek's \\"The Grotto\\",  set in exotic Italian settings where the past is ever pervading on the present, display the slow, rising horror of simple situations devloving into nightmare reminiscent of some Daphne du Murier stories.  The influence of Shirley Jackson can be felt in Terry Lamsley's superb \\"Climbing Down From Heaven\\" where two spinster sisters fall under the spell of their new Updikian neighbor, who is not only very mysterious, but an eligible bachelor aswell.<br />Paul J. McAuley's  \\"The Bone Orchard\\" is a chilling story in the vein of \\"The Sixth Sense\\" and \\"The Changeling\\" that takes place in a Whitechapel cemetery.  Graham Joyce uses the subtle style of English Horror defined by Ramsey Campbell in a story of ghosts on an ancient Greek island in  \\"Xenos Beach\\", while Campbell's own \\"No Strings\\" reveals the hidden face of the horror of the urban nightmare.<BR>  <BR>Chris Fowler takes us on a tour of women and historic pubs in  \\"At Home in the Pubs of Old London\\" with a Serial Killer as guide.<br />And if you thought there was nothing new to say about the Living Dead, Mick Garris takes Zombiedom to a whole new level of &quot;Schlock&quot; in \\"Forever Gramma.\\"<br />Of only two minor criticisms I have, the first concerns the editor's neglect to cite some of the most important work of the deceased in the Necrology  (how can one not mention, for example,  \\"Dr. Zhivago and Bridge on the River Kwai for Alec Guinness?).  The other concerns the over use in the 72 page Introduction by the editor of the word eponymous (\\"..having the same name as the title..\\" Cambridge International Dictionary of English - online) in describing many of the book and film titles: I didn't count, but it was a lot!  A good Thesaurus might have helped here.	2001-11-29
US	52948047	R3LJ6WSBHEV2FV	0786707682	912147982	The Ultimate Jack the Ripper Companion	Books	4	11	11	N	N	Just the facts ma'am.	Forget all the other JTR books you have read in the past that focus on a particular suspect and read the original source material provided in this book.  After reading the unadulterated, unedited primary source material culled from the Ripper Files  and first hand newspaper accounts of the inquests, you will get a much truer picture of what took place than you will from the other books.<BR> <BR>It is easy to see from the way evidence get's left out or how it is dis-organized,  the deliberatness of the obsfucation of Ripper suspect promoters simply to prove their points.<br />By reading the original unedited accounts, I was amazed to see how fairly close descriptions of the Ripper are.  In the Mary Kelly case in particular, 3 witnesses appear to place the time of the murder, while 2 have described the suspect in ways which match former descriptions of him from the other murders.  Becuase of the way authors with a point to prove garble the evidence, it was only after reading this book that the picture becomes much clearer. And what comes clear most of all is that no one has a clue as to JTR's identity.  <br />You won't find much in the way of new evidence in this book, no smoking gun, though you may be able to resolve in your mind certain disputes such as the degree of anatomical knowledge the Ripper had, whether or not he wrote the Goulston Street Grafitti, and whether or not he was involved with both murders of the double event.  But you will also find pages of minutae better left out, such as that dealing with whether or not to offer a reward, that might prove of historical interest to someone studying the police administration of the times, but provides nothing towards furthering the inquiry of the case.<br />If you are looking for truth rather than entertainment value, this is one of the top three or four books on the Ripper you will find	2001-11-05
US	52948047	R2B9NUDZZ7QYE5	0875428320	373980728	Three Books of Occult Philosophy (Llewellyn's Sourcebook)	Books	4	50	62	N	N	A Great Source Book for the Scholar of Magic &amp; Neo-Platonism	This huge tome, written in the 16th century by Henry Cornelius Agrippa von Nettesheim,  is a gathering together of ideas from a myriad of scholarly sources describing the role of magic in the Universe.  Largely drawn from Greek, Roman and Bibilical sources, the philosophy  -- later recanted by Agrippa when in danger of falling into accustaion of heresy from the still influential Catholic Church -- is the cornerstone of Western Magic.  Indeed, it was very influential with such 19th century occultists as Francis Barrett (The Magus), Lord Bulwer-Lytton, the Goldern Dawn and OTO.<br />Each book describes a facet of occult philosophy in a differnt focus.  Book I describes the occultism of the physical world and relies much on neo-platonic thought.  Book II deals with the Cellestial world, with a heavy focus on astrology.  Book III deals with the world of the divine with a heavy Judeo-Christian philosophy.  <br />While many of the ideas put forth appear rediculous today, relying on the validity of heresay evidence and the reknown of the sources he uses, it is interesting to see how, despite the knowledge of empiricism at that time, the word of the Church and Greco-Roman Philospohers are accepted with little question to validity.<br />Much of this massive book, minute in detail with the space given to the editor's footnotes often exceeding that of the chapters of the original text itself, will prove tedious and silly.  And yet, one can find gems of wisdom as well as an understanding of the progression of scholarly thought in the West at that period.<br />A tue occultist will delight in the detailed description of the correspondences and the orginal thought behind why one thing such as Mars, is associated with another such as the color red.  But while today we may see this all as mere symbolism, back then they really believed there was a true physical or spiritual link between such objects.<br />One of the benefits of this version of the Occult Philosphy is the bibliographical dictionary at the end of the book, compiling short sketches of most of the famous and obscure philosophers, historians and other writers whose works Agrippa cites in his text.	2001-10-14
US	52948047	R1KMP5T1RY0JSN	0870540793	110120318	And Afterward, the Dark: Seven Tales	Books	4	12	13	N	N	In the tadition of Alegeron Blackwood and H.P.Lovecraft	Prior to reading &quot;And Afterward, the Dark&quot;, I had read a couple of Copper's horror novels and his treatise on vampires and was none too impressed.  But it is clear that Copper excells in the short horror tale, writen in the tradition of the 19th century English tale of weird fiction, placed in a 20th century context.<br />While neither as subtle as Blackwood or Arthur Machen, nor as definitive in detail as Lovecraft, Copper manages yet to capture the mood and the portrayal of believable otherworldliness thrust into an ordinary situation that those writers were masters of.<br />In &quot;Afterward&quot;, Copper clearly proves he is in a league with such modern masters of English horror as Ramsey Campbell and Brian Lumley.<br />Of the best of the tales in this short Arkham House collection is &quot;Camera Obscura&quot;, admirably filmed as an episode in Rod Serlings' &quot;Night Gallery&quot;.  Clearly, this now becomes one of my alltime favorite Horror tales, excelling in mood -- the essence of the horror tale -- the best of Lovecraft while standing with such greats as Machen's &quot;White People&quot; and Blackwood's &quot;The Willows.&quot;  <br />There are other gems as well, including a sci-fi Lovecraftian tale of an unseen alien menance plaguing Earth colonists on another planet.	2001-10-14
US	52948047	R25HJSZ2USE51G	1564591700	221031925	Fourth Book of Occult Philosophy	Books	3	34	49	N	N	A Spurious  16th Century Treatise on Magic	The Fourth Book of Occult Philosphy purports to be the work of Henry Agrippa, the 16th century author of &quot;Three Books of Occult Philosophy&quot;.  But the 4th Book was obviously not written by Agrippa and bears no resemblance to his style of writing.  Although it can be traced back to the 16th century as it is mentioned by Agrippa's student, Johann Weyer in his &quot;De Praestigiis Daemonum&quot;, the work remains of uncertain provencance.<br />In part a partial summary of some of Agrippa's writings, this facsimile of the English translation by the 17th century Cambridge scholar Robert Turner, comprises spurious essays on Geomancy and Magick under the name of Agrippa, The Heptameron of Peter of Abano, and books on Astrology and Demonolgy, concluding with the Arbatel, a largely Judeo-Christian outlook on the dangers of magic.<br />It is a very quick and easy read, despite the portions dealing with Geomancy and Astrology that even those serious about such subjects would find largely frustrating and incomprehensible.<br />The work largely remains of pure historical interest with not much of serious substance to an undertanding of Magic and Occult Philiosphy.	2001-10-14
US	52948047	R1XQJOYSJAHA1P	0940450062	844371716	The People of the Abyss / The Road / The Iron Heel / Martin Eden / John Barleycorn	Books	3	29	64	N	N	The Socialist's Jack London	This Library of America edition contains some of the less well known works of Jack London.  Many are autobigraphical in nature, others fictional self-portraitures,  and all written in a very socialist bent.  In these writing, Jack London clearly has a bone to pick with American Capitalism and the upper classes, no doubt from personal grudges stemming from his background and his struggle for success.<br />In &quot;The People of the Abyss&quot;, Jack London goes undercover in the Whitechapel district of London, more than a decade after Jack the Ripper, to vividly describe the social degredation of the inhabitants of the East End.  One can see a heavy influence of H.G. Wells in this lengthy essay that seems to be illustrating in non-fictional narrative the degeneration of the worker into the Morlock as described in Well's &quot;Time Machine&quot;.<br />&quot;The Road&quot;  is a quite interesting autobiographical narrative of Jack's life as a Hobo, while &quot;John Barleycorn&quot; is a non-fictional account of London's life using alcohol as a theme. The depressing &quot;Martin Eden&quot; is a quasi-fictional autobiography of London's struggles to become a successfull writer.<br />&quot;The Iron Heel&quot; is a novel of the future set in Berkeley. It bears resemblance to theme and style of Edward Bellamy's &quot;Looking Backward&quot; and is filled with Socialist drivel a la Berkeley.  The climax, set in Chicago during massive riots of the proletariat, is a reworking of scenes from Well's &quot;War of the Worlds.&quot;<br />While there is much of historic interest in these works, which is what attracted me to them since I am a resident of the S.F. Bay where much of these works take place, unless you are a student of London, you will probably find much of the socialist commentary and biographical repition a bit tiresome. Moreover, Jack London can be extremely depressing.  I would not advise, for example,  reading &quot;Martin Eden&quot; when you are already a sour frameof mind	2001-09-28
US	52948047	R31A4M694VHMBE	0786706260	451055080	The Mammoth Book of Jack the Ripper (Mammoth Books)	Books	2	13	17	N	N	Filled with Half-Baked theories and Poor Arguments	Embodies a series of essays on ripper suspects that prove generally poor in analysis with a lack of any substantial or indepth counter-arguments. Anyone who has studied the Ripper case can easily pick up on how the author of each essay leaves out the evidence that doesn't fit his/her suspect.<br />Just about all of these suspects have been much more intelligently discussed and the evidence for their being the Ripper all but dismissed in Sudgen's excellent &quot;The complete History of Jack the Ripper&quot; and Begg's et al &quot;Jack the Ripper A-Z	2001-09-27
US	52948047	R30GI4UOHRPWA9	0958578346	325728610	From Hell	Books	5	2	2	N	N	AWESOME!  The Best Graphic Novel I've ever read!!!	A must for JTR Fans.<br />I have been a long time JTR fan.  I have read all the books and taken the JTR tour in London.  As for Ripper-lit, nothing can compare to FROM HELL for both pure enjoyment and quality of research.!<br />FROM HELL blends in all the favorite conspiracy theories about Jack, coupled with some sci-fi stuff a la Harlan Ellison and Robert Bloch.  <br />I can't wait for the film version with Johnny Depp, though I'm afraid it won't stand up to the novel since what makes it so good is the author's knowledge of historical details and Ripperania he displays in the narrative, coupled with how he uses them to craft a chilling, well-constructed convoluted tale of horror.<br />Clearly you will want to read this more than once	2001-08-21
US	52948047	RBL5A79JWSVTJ	0671046179	815342548	Blood And Smoke Cd	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Surprisingly Enjoyable	This trilogy of tales, loosely framed around smoking and narrated by King his ownself,  was surprisingly fun.  I had been expecting at best a dull narration of latter day King.  But Surprise!  Not only does the author weave some enjoyable yarns, as narrator he is quite entertaining: often funny, often scary.  <br />The stories are Old King, the kind that will leave chills up and down your spine, stories that will leave an impression.  I especially enjoyed most the first of these tales, 'Lunch at the Gotham Cafe', with King acting the roles of the various characters.  I loved how he played the mad maitre de, at once coming across as darkly comical, gradually morphing into something much more deeply sinister.<br />I also enjoyed the second story '1408', a sort of reprise on the Shining, but with the Overlook-like Hotel in NYC.  The nature of the evil and why certain things happen is nver made clear, but the effects are great.<br />The last story is a non-supernatural one about torture in a Latin American Bannana republic.  I'm sure it will offend a few, especially with the overusage of 'We don't need no stinkin' badges!'  Still, King's character immitations and voice inflections are fun	2001-08-21
US	52948047	RRAQGXKF2LZ4T	0679764097	75483092	Strega	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Burke is hard boiled mix of Doc Savage and George Smiley	Set in New York City in the 8o's, in this hard-boiled plot about Child Pornography, we get a good sense of the realism behind the criminal mind and behavior as well as a realistic graphic depiction of the darker side of New York City.<br />I guess my big problem with the main character Burke is that he is such a self-righteous goodie two-shoes as are his dysfunctioanl band of cohorts cut from the pages of Doc Savage and Smiley's People. His heart of gold meshed with his criminal background doesn't seem to cut real for me. <br />The ending too, was a bit dissappointing and not completely shocking since there are plenty of precursors to let you know there is something wrong with Strega. I think alot more could have been done with it.	2001-08-17
US	52948047	RR2X85ZMJGW6G	0062500309	612105757	The Other Bible	Books	5	119	129	N	N	Enlightening look at History/Development of Western Religion	This is a wonderfull compendium of Gnostic, Hermetic and non-cannonical Judeo-Christian scriptures.  You will find selected chapters and passages from a ubiquitous array of ancient texts influenced by many faiths and philosophies.<br />Among other things, this book introduces you to:<br />-- The origin of the fallen angels and levels of heaven and hell (Book of Enoch et al) later depicted by Dante and Blake.<br />-- The Nag Hammadi Gonstic texts<br />-- The Hermetical texts<br />-- The Manachean texts<br />-- The Mystical texts of the Dead Sea scrolls and Kaballah<br />-- Strange Gnostic Christian beliefs from Simon Magus to the almost Satanic Cainites.<br />-- The complete 'Q'-sourced Gospel of Thomas<br />-- The Infancy Gospels of Christ<br />One of my favorite selections, The Infancy Gospel of Thomas, reminded me of the Jerome Bixby SF Classic &quot;It's a Good Life.&quot;  with little Jesus terrorizing the town (wishing bad people away).<br />You will clearly understand after reading this book just how hetergeneous the early Christian communities really were in their beliefs.  In fact, the earliest beliefs seem more Gonstic in flavor than they later came to be with the establishment of the Roman Church.<br />I would highly recommend this book to both the scholar and faithfull alike.  For the former, it offers a look at the hisotry and development of Western religion and philsophy through original source material, while to the latter, the origin of some widely held notions, particularly about Heven and Hell, can be found here.	2001-07-20
US	52948047	RU8LF96JA99OS	1883011469	393057704	Crime Novels: American Noir of the 1930s and 40s: The Postman Always Rings Twice / They Shoot Horses, Don't They? / Thieves Like Us / The Big Clock / ... a Dead Man (Library of America) (Vol 1)	Books	5	13	15	N	N	Nihilistic Noir:  or &quot;In the end, everything turns out bad.&quot;	I was surprised at how modern the themes and writing of this compendium were.  I read &quot;Thieves Like Us&quot; just when the Texas 7 episode was happening and was amazed at how little the views of crime and punishment, justice and desperation have changed since that writing, especially in Texas where the story takes place.<br />&quot;They Shoot Horses...&quot; was my favorite of the bunch for it's depiction of deperate people doing desperate things to survive in the form of a Dance Marathon.  But are they doing this out of deperation (even the winner of the prize money, after months of physical torment , will end up having made less than a dollar a day)?  Or  becuase there is nothing else to do?  What is futile and what is meaningfull, the story seems to be asking.<br />&quot;Nightmare Alley&quot;  brought the Tyrone Power movie back home, only the ending seems more poignant. The author organzies each chapter along the 22 minor arcana of the Tarot, a device used by later authors like Robert Anton Wilson and Umberto Eco.<br />&quot;The big clock&quot;, filmed at least twice with variations on themes, uses a unique writing style of shifting narratives from the main characters' points of view and has an awfully modern motive for the murder (probably a little too modern for that period).<br />&quot;The Postman..&quot; and &quot;I Married a Dead Man&quot; story were also very dood.  The Noir theme of &quot;Crime Does Not Pay&quot; runs through most of theses stories, but when you read them, you realize that it's not as simple as that.  In the end, who really wins and loses and does it matter?<br />I don't think one can do better for reading the greats of American Literature than through the Library of America seri	2001-07-18
US	52948047	RTUC64CIA5R3P	0968601405	865805341	The Jesus Puzzle. Did Christianity Begin with a Mythical Christ? : Challenging the Existence of an Historical Jesus	Books	4	86	99	N	N	Provocative and Well Researched, But Still Puzzling	-- I won't go into too much about what's good about this book other than to say I think it provides a lot of valid points backed  up with sound historical research (at least as far as I can see, not being an expert on the subject).  Anyone who has read  and moderately studied the Bible and Apocrypha can clearly see how much of the incidents in Jesus's life recall events and  lyrical passages from the Old Testament(some word-for-word as in Psalms) and therefore anyone not prone to a 'Magical' view  of reality might clearly see Jesus as a mythical figure.    Still, I find some of Doherty's points troublesome to accept and would therefore focus criticism on certain gaps I think need  to be addressed in 'The Puzzle', gaps which left me confused and not yet completely convinced.  Mainly I have some issues  with trying to see how two supposedly distinct traditions, one related to Paul, the other to the Gospels, come together to  form a cohesive story like we see in the New Testamant without being directly related.    Briefly, Doherty believes that the historical Jesus was a myth. His theory is largely based on the premise of reversing the  precedence of the New Testament texts,  making Paul's Epistles come before the Gospels.  Instead,  the latter 'Q\\" inspired  texts were actually later contrived documents designed to validate a movement Paul was instrumental in spreading.    Questions:    1.  Doherty believes that the Jesus of the Gospels was made up, a myth.  If so, then what about Paul, Peter and the other  disciples?  Were they real or not?  And if they were real -- according to Doherty at least Paul and Peter are  -- than why  not Jesus? In Doeherty's view Peter appears to be a valid historical figure only because the only credible documents in the New Testament of historical relevance, according to Doherty, are Paul's Epistles or at least some of them. If Peter is real,  is Judas? Mary? Joseph?  Who is and who isn't real?  If these other figures are not real, then those who invented the Gospels must have made them up.  What are their provenance or literary pre-cursors?  Are some,  but not all real?  Which ones are and which ones are not real or if they are all real, why not Jesus?  Or are we simply looking at the first example of pure fiction, something we shouldn't see until Cervantes or Chaucer.  Perhaps only the central characters in the Bible (Jesus, Moses, Abraham) were made up.    2.  He doesn't quite explain the provenance of the Gospel of John, which appears to be, at least from original text discovered in an archaological context, the 'oldest' of the Gospels discovered and outside the Q line. I feel Doeherty should have discussed and related the archeological  contexts of the oldest known scriptures, but he seems to ignore this angle for the most part and focuses strictly on content.    3.  Outside of the Q material, Doherty theorizes, but doesn't really provide evidence for, that Mark, being the oldest of the  Q Gospels (or at least the parts referencing the events of the historic Jesus figure) was a contrived document authored by  'someone' wanting to validate an existing Messianic movement independent of the Gospels and Historic Jesus. This nebulous  'someone' obviously had to know about Peter and, if as Doehrty claims it was written after Paul's letters, and Paul  reference's Peter in those letters, the author should have known about Paul as well.   So why did he not include Paul (and  associated Pauline Dogma and events) as a reference in Mark?  Was there no backward-compatability?  To use Doherty's own  arguments against Paul why there was no reference by him to an Historic Christ, I ask why is there no reference to an Historic Paul from documents supposedly drawn up well after Paul's death and fame designed to support Paul's theology.    4.  Doeherty believes that both 'The Acts' and references to Jesus in 'Josephus were forged redactions.  And yet, he gives no  in-depth analysis or proof of these very important assertions that are crucial to his theory.    There are many non-fundamentalist, even non-religious Biblical scholars probably more expert than Doherty is on the Bible who  might be able to shred apart the author's logic and evidence and while this book might not be the place for such debates, before I would accept Doherty's theories I would want to hear those opposing views.  I felt this book was generally lacking in examination and critique of years of sound Biblical scholarship that assumes Christ as a Historical figure.    Still, I think the author has made a good start and needs to continue with his research to make the Puzzle less Puzzling.	2001-07-13
US	52948047	RUJ14L9LGXNFK	0743211383	241269653	Dreamcatcher	Books	2	1	3	N	N	Rehashed Plots and Characters.  King's not at his best here.	Don't get me wrong. I love Steve King and have read everything he has published. Have been reading him since 1975. But I found this overly-long novel a poorly-rendered work filled with characters hashed-out and remasked from many of King's earlier works. <br />You'll find many references, directly and indrectly, to King's past works ('IT', 'Tom Gordern', 'The Stand') to name just a few, while the plot reworks common King-y-ing themes of good-vs-evil. We have seen this book before: It's 'IT', it's 'The Stand', it's 'Tommy Knockers', it's 'Firestarter' among others. But while it's often fun to find half-vieled references to former plots and characters in King's books, in Dreamcatcher it's just too blatant to be fun.<br />Finally, King so way overplays the sympathy angle with the Autistic Savant (it's Tom Cullen from 'The Stand', playing a version of 'Charlie' with the powers of Dead Zone's 'Johnny Smith') and the evil school-boys (remember them from 'Sometimes They Come Back') that I couldn't wait to end the agony of the read by skimming the last several hundred pages of this volumnious tome.<br />Still, I'll forgive SK for a few bad apples like DreamCatcher, knowing that his next book will have to be better.	2001-07-10
US	52948047	R2P7YK5NV0ZM52	0316294748	555280414	Red Mafiya:  How the Russian Mob Has Invaded America	Books	3	3	4	N	N	Enlightening look at the new kids on the crime block.	Being a big fan of the history of Organized Crime in the US, I found this work to be a solid introduction to the Russian Mafia.  While the book's entertainment style is somewhat weak, the information it provides seems balanced and comprehensive.  <br />After reading this book, I came away with two conclusions about Organized Crime today:  1) that despite all the ballyhoo from the FBI and Federal Prosecuters, Morgenthau and Juliani claiming big success in the fight against Organized Crime thanks to RICO, Organized Crime in the US is not dead, but is in fact bigger than ever, albeit more divers; 2)  that if what the author claims is true about how powerfull the Mafia is in Russia, that country may be moving toward an Organized Crime State, a threat that in Columbia is all two real.   <br />Always a fan of the five N.Y. families, I was surprised to note that the Masseria/Luciano/Genovese family has taken a lead in working with the Russian mob and still appears to be the most powerfull of the  group, extending it's operations into Africa and Europe.<br />I look forward to more in-depth works on Red Mafiya Families.	2001-04-19
US	52948047	RL41ONY40JIJ1	0451179803	959014913	Spandau Phoenix: A Novel	Books	3	4	7	N	N	Should have left out the James Bond stuff	I was looking for something along the lines of The Odessa File and The Boys of Brazil and picked this up.  I had seen stories about Rudolph Hess not really being Rudy afterall, his peculiar death (suicide, yeah right!) and the \\"Conspiracy\\" among the Allies to keep hidden something that would embarrass England, America and Russia.  <br />So this book follows up on this concept and while it starts out good, it soon resorts to gimicrky with a Dr. Evil/Blowfeld style master criminal running SPECTRE-like orgranization of neo-nazis seeking to take over the world, ending with a high-tech climax right out of a James Bond movie (I could even hear the background music from the raid on Ft. Knox in Goldfinger as the Good Guys attacked the villian's secret stronghold to thwart his evil plans at the last minute). I was hoping for something more intellectual and low key a la Forsyth or even Ludlum.  <br />This book would be great if it was re-written...and reduced by half	2001-04-19
US	52948047	RAMX56ZVUWXQP	0374516642	555329729	King Jesus: A Novel (FSG Classics)	Books	3	45	63	N	N	An Amusing Feminist Slant on the Origin of Christianity	Take any of his published works and there is no doubt that Robert Graves is a thorough scholar.  King Jesus is unusual in that it is a novel filled with scholarly references from the canonical books of the Bible, Gnostic gospels, Apocryphia and Semitic mythology that tries to convince the reader of Grave's view of the significant relevance of the Triple Goddess mystery religion in the culture of ancient Israel.<br />Following the theme set out in his work White Goddess, Graves retells the story of the gospel(s) with more than a little literary license I found both fun and interesting.    <br />It turns out that Christ's message was completely misinterpreted.  And yet, in the end, Christ won in the sense that were it not for his death and resurrection and  the subsequent growing popularity of his cult, we might be going to the sacred grove on Sundays to worship the Goddess instead of Church to worship the God.<br />Despite some insightful gems such as &quot;The Three Marys&quot; -- WOW! I never realized the connection before! -- overall his thesis doesn't seem very convincing.  Anyone who has read the Bible and standard Apocryphia cover to cover  can see that there were clearly defined messages for both the Old and New Testaments that had nothing even remotely to do with Goddess worship.  Moreover, his argument for a more prominent role of a matri-centric mystery cult in the patriarchal dominated culture of ancient Israel is very weak. Graves confuses the dualistic concepts of the Gnostics with Christ's goal of destroying the supposed feminine influence in Judaism. <br />Still, it was a fun read if you don't take it too seriously	2001-04-19
US	52948047	RKVJR2J13AK3M	0786707925	397346401	The Mammoth Book of Best New Horror 11	Books	3	5	8	N	N	Not the best Horror Anthology for the year.	I've been a consistant reader from Volume I on of this anthology, but I must admit that lately the selections have been dissappointing.  It seems as if Stephen Jones must always include some of the same authors in every volume, even though there are better horror stories from other authors not included for that year.<br />For this year, the landmark 999 was clearly the best horror anthology, of which this volume contains only two stories  (the ones by Klein and Campbell).  Clearly the 999 stories by Ligotti, Lansdale and Oates were far better than the majority of the stories included in Best New Horror 11.<br />Still, you might find the little Halloween vignettes by Tem amusing and the Schow story Unshaped a bit disconcerting, but I think, aside from the Campbell story (see 999), Peter Straub's story of a legendary Jazz saxaphonist is quite superb.<br />Hopefully Jones will be more discriminating in the future, rather than continually playing his favourites.	2001-01-09
US	52948047	R40HEOIVMZWQL	0394485289	534393833	Harvest Home	Books	5	11	13	N	N	The CLASSIC Novel of Rural Horror	Beginning with a premise from Shirley Jackson's 'The Lottery', Harvest Home starts with the experience of a happy mood-shift of 'new beginnings'  as a family of 70's Yuppies from New York retire to the bucolic settings of  New Hampshire countryside, giving up the comforts of city living to live  the life of the country gentry.  What draws them to the town of Cornwall  Coomb is the quaint Amish-Like sect of original settlers, ostensibly from  England, who have tried to keep to the old ways, forgoing all modern  conveniences.  The city family tries it's best to fit in, and mostly they  do, save for a few fau-pas unwittingly committed by an overcurious and  somewhat ignorant central character, the Husband.<br />And then slowly, as the  story sucks the reader in to this apparent theme of readjustment, curious  oddities and certain seemingly disassoicated mysteries which have hitherto  been kept in the background as an apparent device to illustrate the  quaintness of this rural New England atavistic culture, we start to  gradually sense that there is something really...really..wrong here!<br />With the grace of an Ira Levin novel (most particularly I'm thinking of  'Rosemary's Baby', with which this novel has much in common), Tryon begins  to induce an ever-increasing sense of paranoia,  through the view of the  central character, as he discovers a latent Machenesque form of paganism in  Cornwall Comb.  As his curioisity and paranoia mounts, he becomes a  pariah, not only to the town, but to his family for his 'questioning of the  ways'.<br />This mood of mystery, nameless dread and paranoia intensifes  through the reading until the dark, dreadfull climax is reached, only to be  surpassed by an even more chilling, yet subtler post-climax.<br />This is my  favorite horror novel of all time.  Not to detract from Tryon's 'The  Other', which is another great horror Novel based upon another literary  premise (Poe's Doppelganger 'William Wilson'), Harvest Home seems to stickwith me more.  Every few years I want to bring it out and read it again.  If you've read Shirley Jackson, Arthur Machen or Ira Levin, I think you  will find much to enjoy here.	2000-09-20
US	52948047	RI2C9Y6LK7NH7	0471354015	600031347	Palm Database Programming: The Complete Developer's Guide	Books	2	20	22	N	N	Already Obsolete	This book needs revised.<br />Apart from an indepth coverage of CodeWarrior and C programming for Palm O/S and Sybase Ultralite, the bulk of the information provided in this book is either obsolete or redundant.  The  Oracle Lite Consolidator example in the book is outdated since Consolidator  has been replaced with iConnect in the most recent version of OLite.  In  addition, no mention is made of SatForms' solution for data  synchronization.	2000-06-02
US	52948047	RCFPJY9DU7BVV	0380977400	477402843	999: New Stories of Horror and Suspense	Books	4	7	8	N	N	Better than Most Modern Horror Anthologies	As an avid reader of horror anthologies, I enjoyed 999 more than most because of the quality of work and authors selected.  I would rate this work favorably with such horror anthologies as Dark Forces, Stalkers,  Metahorror and my favorite, Silver Scream.  Not all of the stories are  outstanding of course, but I particularly enjoyed the stories by Ligotti,  Oates, Campbell and Lansdale.  Ligotti and Lansdale fans should pick this  one up just for their stories alone.	2000-02-17
US	52948047	R2DUZMLQN8VC7X	0553580191	294009896	Seize the Night	Books	3	0	0	N	N	A Good Concept that Fell Short on Implementation	I've never been a Koontz fan and this is only the second book of his that I've read (the other being Midnight).  Still, the concept of interdimensional travellers invading our time coupled with biotech gone mad  was right up my alley.  I particularly enjoyed the references to Hodgen's  House on the Borderland and the subtler ones to Inasion of the Body  Snatchers.  Still, I was dissappointed by the second half and ending of the  book which, despite it's attempt to play with time paradoxes, turned into a  mindless jumble of scenes that seemed written with big-budget movie-option  for the screenplay in mind.  A little more Hodgen and a lot less beach boys  would have done wonders for this one.	2000-02-17
