US	52942551	R1P4UKCGDKHHFH	1585710962	422485492	The Color Of Trouble (Love Spectrum Romance)	Books	5	10	12	N	N	A captivating story from a talented new author...	I can't recommend this book highly enough.  Dyanne Davis has created strong characters with real problems and universal appeal.  Kari and Jon are compelling, flawed individuals in a difficult situation and you become totally engrossed in their story.<br />Although this is Dyanne Davis's first novel, it will definitely not be her last.  She has an incredible talent to capture your attention with the first word and hold it until long after &quot;the end.&quot; You experience the full range of emotions with these characters and feel the happily-ever-after glow long after the story ends.  Great job!	2003-08-21
US	52942551	R12KV40J0XCQ7L	0451409310	831651629	Unbreak My Heart	Books	5	20	20	N	N	A warm and wonderful book not to be missed!	Allie Bennett has some serious issues to deal with from her childhood.  Now that her mother has passed away, she learns that her father also died and that means she has inherited the family home in Dublin, Kentucky.  She has to go back to see if she can finally piece together the mystery of why her perfect family fell apart when she was nine. <br />Walking back into her family home, Allie is literally struck by the memories of the year her older sister Megan ran away and then was killed in an automobile accident.  Shortly after they buried Megan, Allie's mother took her away in the middle of the night. She never  saw her father again.  Now she is obsessed with discovering what really happened back then, even though the memories coming back to her and the stories she hears from the people who remember it best are disturbing. <br />Stephen Whittaker has a vested interest in helping Allie come to terms with her memories and moving on as quickly as possible.  That's his plan from the moment she arrives in town.  Unfortunately, he didn't plan to be so drawn to her.  He didn't plan to get as  caught up in her quest as she was nor did he expect to fall in love with her.   The chemistry between these characters is so real, you can feel the heat right through the pages.  And just as real is the chilling tingle that runs up your spine as the fifteen-year-old mystery begins to unravel.  Teresa has skillfully intertwined romance and suspense to create a wonderful story with just the right taste of the south.  Her gift for creating memorable characters will leave Stephen and Allie on your mind long after you finish the  last page.	2001-02-15
US	52942551	R1GD9IQXTCLXR4	0380815257	669363336	A Belated Bride	Books	5	12	13	N	N	A wonderful Regency-era romp from a talented new author!	In this wonderful, humorous Regency-era romp, Karen has proven that the success of her first novel, The Abduction of Julia, was no mistake.  Arabella Hadley has plenty of secrets, as well as two elderly aunts, a wheelchair bound brother, and a estate full of servants and tenants that she's trying to protect.  What she  certainly doesn't need is an injured duke lying around the house to upset her routine.  Especially this duke. <br />Lucien Deveraux stole her heart and then stomped on it ten years ago.  Even though the Christian thing to do is rescue an injured man lying along the road on that dark night, once Arabella discovers his identity, she begins to wish she'd left him tofend for himself.  Once Lucien discovers where he is, he decides to use the obvious interest of Arabella's aunts to his advantage - both to hide his own secrets and to learn more about Arabella's life in the years since he had to marry another. <br />Once Lucien is firmly ensconced in the family home, Arabella has a devil of a time trying to kick him out.  Her aunts have decided he is the perfect mate for Arabella and her brother has finally shown some interest in life again.  However, the temptation of Lucien is more than poor Arabella can stand; she never quite managed to free her heart of his memories, even after he married another woman. <br />In this funny, tender, and enjoyable ride through the English countryside and the lives of these two independent and resilient characters, Karen Hawkins has created a world that leaves us wanting more.  The drama is exciting, the sexual chemistry is riveting, and the characters, from the hero and heroine down to Arabella's meddling aunts and crippled brother, Lucien's eccentric sister, and all the people working and living on or near Rosemont, can't help but worm their way into our hearts. Definitely don't miss this latest and endearing tale from a talented new author.  Great job, Karen!	2001-02-15
US	52942551	RKWS24GWI25R6	0553580477	843615396	The Outlaw Bride	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Another great western historical from this talented author!	Sandra Chastain's latest single title historical from Bantam, The Outlaw Bride, is a December release.  For Sandra's many fans, this is a much-anticipated new release.  For lovers of western historicals, The Outlaw Bride is definitely one not to be missed.<br />Josie Miller is a lawyer, nearly a doctor, and yet considers herself to be a bit of a fraud.  Orphaned at a young age, she learned to pick pockets and locks to stay alive.  Her outlaw past still haunts her.  When adopted by Dan and Dr. Annie, Josie finds love and a secure home in Wyoming, but never believes that she is the lady they want her to be.  <br />Sims Callahan is brought to Josie's house wounded and near death.  Even though Dr. Annie is out of town, Josie is determined to save the mysterious stranger who looks more like an outlaw than a victim.  Sims is badly injured and nearly dies, but Josie is able to bring him back from the brink of death.  When he comes to, however, he finds himself accused of theft and on his way to prison.  That's when his lady doctor becomes his lady lawyer, and Callahan wants her to be so much more.<br />Sandra has created bold, vibrant characters living in a rugged time.  Josie is an interesting heroine, full of independence and righteous indignation on behalf of the downtrodden and persecuted, especially women.  Sims is an enigma, just on the edge of the law, whose heart is in the right place but who has responsibilities and shadows from the past coloring his actions and decisions.  These two people set off sparks from the moment they meet.  They are intellectually well-matched and there is some wonderful dialogue between them.  The secondary characters add a nice dimension to the story and are very believable.  <br />If you are a fan of western historicals or of Sandra's many previous books, be sure you don't miss The Outlaw Bride.	2000-12-04
US	52942551	R2R767V4P02VXW	0380807734	107389028	Improper Advances	Books	5	20	20	N	N	A wonderful, witty &amp; entertaining historical romance!	Margaret Evans Porter's December release from Avon is a British historical entitled Improper Advances.  This may have been the first book I've read by Margaret Evans Porter, but it definitely won't be the last.  Improper Advances is an engaging story of two fascinating people finding their way not only to be happy together, but to be together forever.<br />Ana St. Albans, aka Oriana Julian, has led a most unusual life.  Born into a family renowned for its illegitimate ancestors, it was not so unusual for Ana to be born on the wrong side of the sheets herself.  However, because of her high-class relations and her incredible musical talent, Ana has made her way into the homes and hearts of many members of the aristocracy.  <br />Unfortunately, she has also become a favorite topic of conversation, gossip, and dirty little ditties uttered by people from all walks of London life.  Scandal has plagued her consistently since she entered the theatrical life at a young age, but especially since a failed love affair and false engagement.  When a new scandal threatens, Ana takes refuge on the Isle of Man, where she seeks peace, quiet, and a bit of anonymity.<br />Darius Corlett considers the Isle of Man his home, although he owns properties in other areas of England as well.  He is ready to marry and settle down, having built himself an incredible new mansion, but he fears fortune hunters after a close call and broken betrothal.  When he meets the Widow Julian, he is intrigued by her unspoken secrets and attracted to her outstanding beauty.  They eventually become friends, but after one wild night of passion, Ana flees the island.<br />Dare follows her to Liverpool and on to London, intrigued by her disinterest in marriage, her eccentric lifestyle, and her genuine affection for him.  However, he begins to see that her life is not as carefree or easy as she has led him to believe.  While under her spell, he finds that he himself is forced to question exactly what he wants out of life and with whom he wants to spend eternity.<br />The chemistry between Dare and Ana is wonderful, as much for the luscious lovemaking as for the lively, humorous and intelligent conversation between them.  The unorthodox lifestyle that Margaret has crafted for this couple is fascinating, from Ana's professional performances and love of horse racing to Dare's scientific research on Manx minerals.  The tale that Margaret spins to leads these lost souls to each other is warm, witty, and engaging and certainly, not to be missed!	2000-12-04
US	52942551	R2D2GXVQHKKFLM	1583141200	213053501	More Than Gold (Arabesque)	Books	5	11	11	N	N	Terrific romantic suspense with an Olympic theme!	Shirley Hailstock's latest contemporary romantic suspense, an October release from BET Books/Arabesque, is entitled More Than Gold.  Just in time to catch the Olympic fever generated over the last few weeks in Sydney, More Than Gold features an Olympic gymnast heroine.  Here's our review: <br />Morgan Kirkwood is a dichotomy.  She's a tough kid who grew up on the streets.  Orphaned at an early age, she knew what it meant to be homeless and on the run.  Fortunately, fate stepped in through the guise of a well meaning, loving social worker who not only took Morgan home and adopted her, but also saw her talent for gymnastics and allowed her to develop it.  <br />Cut to Morgan Kirkwood, America's nineteen-year-old sweetheart.  Standing on the podium, clutching red roses to her chest and singing the Star Spangled banner for all her worth.  While the world watched her accept the gold in the Seoul Olympics, only a select group of government agents knew that Morgan had helped rescue an important American from a North Korean prison during a break in her competition.  And only Morgan knows that an American swimming coach has captured her heart and love during the games. <br />However, all of this took place twelve years prior to More Than Gold.  Someone wants Morgan dead.  She's notsure who the bad guys are, afraid to trust anyone.  When Jack Temple shows up in her house just moments before shots ring out and her house goes up in smoke, she runs for her life and Jack follows.  He saves her life more than once, but still she doesn't know whose side he's on.  She does know that seeing him again, after twelve long years, instantly ignites the attraction between them. <br />Jack was part of the elite government group who helped Morgan to rescue Hart Lewiston.  Hart is not only the son of a Supreme Court justice; he is the front-running candidate for president now.  Regardless of whoever is trying to kill Morgan, Jack will do everything in his power to keep her alive.  The twistsand turns of their race to freedom are exciting, unexpected, and thoroughly enjoyable. <br />Shirley has crafted a riveting, believable romantic suspense, with the emphasis on both romance and suspense. The chemistry between Jack and Morgan sizzles right off the page.  The suspense is intriguing, believable and even better, surprising.  Don't miss More Than Gold - it's definitely a winner!	2000-11-07
US	52942551	R1OS1WB9UDFZB	0425176959	954405642	A Thing of Beauty	Books	4	16	16	N	N	A Thing of Beauty is a joy forever!	Casey Claybourne's October release from Berkley is entitled A Thing of Beauty.  If you are, as I definitely am, a fan of Casey's humorous Regency-era historical romances, don't miss this one.  A Thing of Beauty is a joy forever. <br />Belinda Croft is approaching spinsterhood without a care in the world, other than how to satisfy her aunt's desire that she participate in her cousin Sissy's debut season when Belinda would just prefer to stay home and work in her laboratory, mixing home remedies for anything that ails those around her.  She has never enjoyed going out in society and, fortunately for her, her widowed recluse of a father has never required her to do so. <br />However, Belinda does not want to offend her aunt or hurt Sissy's feelings, so out into society she goes.  And not only does she accompany Sissy, but provides her with a miracle beauty cream that all of the matrons of the ton begin to clamor for.<br />Marcus Barrow should be an earl, if only his father had not angered King George by choosing to marry a servant girl rather than the woman chosen for him by the King.  That choice caused the King to strip Marcus's father of the title and property that had been in his family for generations.  Marcus has always made it his personal campaign to win back the earldom.  So, when he accepted a secret wager from Prince Regent that forces him to spend time with the bluestocking Belinda Croft, Marcus had no idea he would be so thoroughly bewitched by the brainy miss. <br />The ensuing romance and comedy of this story are both enjoyable and charming.  As in all of Casey's books, the dialogue is engaging and witty.  I love an independent and intelligent heroine, especially set in the Regency era, and Belinda certainly delivers.  Marcus makes for a delicious hero with enough wit, respect for his heroine, and a touch of the deep dark secret to make things exciting between them.<br />As always, Casey Claybourne delivers an entertaining and satisfying story for all lovers of romance, especially those of us intrigued with Regency-era England.  Don't miss A Thing of Beauty.	2000-11-07
US	52942551	R2MCCBGO5WC32Z	0380815524	649257409	Just the Way You Are	Books	5	158	163	N	N	A wonderful story, uplifting and heartwarming!	Just the Way You Are by Barbara Freethy Review by Barb Deane, Barb's All Romance Book Store<br />Avon author Barbara Freethy's November release is entitled Just the Way You Are.  It is her seventh contemporary romance for Avon and definitely my favorite so far.  Here's our review:<br />Allison and Tessa are sisters, only two years apart, whose parents were killed in an auto accident when they were still young.  After the accident, the girls move to Tucker's Landing, a small town on the Oregon coast to live with their aunt Phoebe.  And next door to Phoebe lives the town founders, including the proverbial boy-next-door, Sam Tucker.<br />From the moment they met, Sam and Tessa are best friends, inseparable and in love.  Unfortunately, Allison also falls in love with Sam from the moment she sees him and is constantly chasing after Tessa and Sam, trying to keep up and fit in.  The fact that beautiful Tessa is stunningly beautiful and begins a modeling career at an early age doesn't help Allie's increasing feelings of inferiority.<br />When Sam and Tessa were twenty, he intended to propose at Christmas.  Tessa, however, takes a modeling job over the holidays and doesn't go home to Tucker's Landing.  So, when a drunken Sam falls in bed with Allie and makes a baby, Tessa is crushed and furious with them both.  When Sam tells her he is marrying Allie, Tessa leaves town and doesn't return until Aunt Phoebe has a stroke, nine years later.<br />However, when Tessa gets to town, she learns that Sam is back living in his parents' old house next to Phoebe, because Allie has kicked him out and asked for a divorce.  No longer willing to live with a man who doesn't even tell her that he loves her, but only married her because she was pregnant, Allie cannot get past her feelings of playing second fiddle to Tessa.  And with super model Tessa back in town and in Sam's arms, tempers flare and accusations fly.<br />Barbara Freethy has crafted a beautiful and emotionally satisfying story in Just the Way You Are.  I was immediately drawn into these people's lives and was unwilling to let them go until I had finished the story.  The secondary characters are compelling and perfectly compliment the emotional attachment and age-old pain that Sam and Allie have to deal with in order to decide what to do with their future.  I cannot recommend this book enough - it is a lovely story that will touch your heart.	2000-11-04
US	52942551	R2X6TVS0SJ32Q	0843947926	565964550	Indigo Moon	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Great American historical from an exciting new voice!	Indigo Moon by Lori Morgan Review by Barb Deane, Barb's All Romance Book Store<br />New author Lori Morgan's first book, Indigo Moon, is a November release from Leisure. Indigo Moon is an American historical, set in late 19th century Montana.  I know that many of you who are fans of Indian and frontier romances will be thrilled to know there is a talented new voice in the historical market.  Be sure you don't miss Indigo Moon....<br />Rebeka Randall is trying her best to free her brother from a premature death by hanging.  He is a young fool who hooked up with the wrong group and she refuses to see him lose his life for one stupid mistake.  She asks Chase Hawken to help her break Nathan out of jail and to help them make it over the mountains and back to Montana.  Little does she know what a hornets' nest she has stirred up simply by seeking him out.<br />Chase is a man with a past, parts of which he'd just as soon forget.  But the bold young half-breed woman who asks the impossible of him must be the identical twin of his wife, who has been dead for two years.  And Cherokee Johns, the man who is helping her break her brother out of jail is one of the same men responsible for the brutal death of his wife; one of them men Chase has been hunting for revenge.<br />The trip to Montana through the snowy mountains is dangerous enough without the added distraction of the posse following the small troupe, the Indians stealing horses, and the threats Johns and his partner pose to the healthy and continued life of Chase, Rebeka and her brother.  Added to all of that are some serious sparks flying between Chase and Rebeka - which lead to some wonderful and sensual scenes.  The twists and turns the plot takes these characters on shows their strengths, weaknesses, and growing love for each other.<br />Indigo Moon is a very impressive first novel - Lori Morgan is definitely a name to watch.  In fact, she's two names to watch!  Lori also writes as Laura Renken and has her first book under that name coming out from Jove in January - a pirate historical entitled My Lord Pirate.   Don't miss these two debut novels by a talented new voice!	2000-11-04
US	52942551	RCQ8KQYU0TISV	1930076037	503402795	Kyros' Secret	Books	4	15	18	N	N	Greek mythology makes a great backdrop for romance!	Kyros' Secret, by Elizabeth Rose Review by Barb Deane, Barb's All Romance Book Store<br />New author Elizabeth Rose's second book, Kyros' Secret, is being published by New Leaf Books in November.  Unlike Elizabeth's first book, Eden's Garden, which was a contemporary set in the Chicago area, Kyros' Secret is more of a paranormal based in Greek mythology.  In fact, the heroine is Thera, Goddess of Sensations, daughter of Ares, the God of War, and Aphrodite, the Goddess of Love.  The hero, Kyros, has been cursed by Ares, doomed to spend days as a mortal man and nights as a Centaur (half man/half horse).  Kyros' Secret is, obviously, not your average run-of-the-mill romance.<br />Thera is not happy on Mount Olympus.  Her twin sister, Harmonia, is more the apple of mom's eye that Thera.  However, Thera is not interested in becoming the Warrior that Ares envisions either.  When her father takes her hunting and forces her to kill, she aims her arrow at Ares' prize raven.  In anger over the death of his favorite pet, Ares plans to use Thera to force a war between humans and Centaurs, thereby giving Hades enough dead bodies to persuade him to release the raven back among the living. <br />The war is going to be started when Thera, whom Ares has promised as bride to the King of the Trozens, turns up pregnant and gives birth to a Centaur.  However, when Ares sends a lightning bolt toward Rodas, the Centaur who conspired with Ares to bring about war, Kyros intervenes in an attempt to save Rodas.  Instead, Thera becomes pregnant with Kyros's child.  The problem is, Kyros doesn't know whether that child will be born human or Centaur.  So, he decides to stay by Thera and protect her until she delivers the baby.  In the process, he and Thera fall in love.<br />Of course, along the way, all manner of odd things happen and obstacles are thrown in the way of true love.  Ares has convinced Thera she has been stripped of her godly powers....<br />This story is unlike any other romanceI have ever read.  I enjoyed it and was entertained by it - which is why I read romance, after all.  I find myself at a loss to explain why this book appealed to me so much; I just accept that it did and that I definitely recommend it to romance readers looking for a different type of love story.  Elizabeth Rose is a rising star among new romance authors and I look forward to her next book, whatever reality it occurs in.  Read &amp; enjoy!	2000-10-06
US	52942551	R1LT4IHT5A458M	0515129062	340807429	The Queen's Man (Time Passages)	Books	5	5	7	N	N	A great Elizabethan time travel romance by a great author!	THE QUEEN'S MAN by Terri Brisbin Review by Barb Deane, Barb's All Romance Book Store<br />Terri Brisbin's September, 2000 release, The Queen's Man, is  her third book released under Jove's Time Passages series.  I will admit  right up front that I was predisposed to like this book:  I love Terri's  first two books, A Love Through Time and A Matter of Time; The Queen's Man  is set in Elizabethan England, another favorite of mine; and the hero is  the son of Henry VIII and Ann Boleyn, and I have read and enjoyed many,  many books on the wives of Henry VIII.  Even given all of this, I was still  surprised to see how much I loved The Queen's Man.<br />Sharon Reynolds is in  England on a vacation from Chicago, studying at the London Textile  Institute.  She has encountered problems in her recent promotion to the  head curator at the Chicago Museum's Historical Costume and Fabric  collection due to the jealous machinations of a man who did not get  appointed to the position.  <br />Sharon finds a packet of papers hidden  inside an Elizabeth gown that was found.  She can't resist opening the  papers, but is stunned when she figures out that they are the signed  confession and supporting documents that establish that Henry VIII fathered  a son while married to Ann Boleyn, but the midwife stole the child,  presumed dead, and had him raised by another family.  Although the rightful  King of England, this son was never discovered nor acknowledged.<br />When  Sharon stumbles upon a hidden room, she, the dress, and the documents are  thrown back in time.  She is mistaken for another Sharon Reynolds who is  supposed to join the Queen's household, and is immediately put to work as a  seamstress.  When she finally figures out and accepts where she is, she  realizes it must have happened in order for her to find Henry VIII's true  son and give him the evidence he needs to take his rightful place as King,  although she also fears the effect this will have on history.<br />Richard  Granville is in charge of the Queen's stables.  He also happens to be Good  Queen Bess's bastard half-brother.  When he first sees Sharon Reynolds, he  is wary of her.  However, her honesty, innocence, and attractiveness  generate a more than average interest for him.  She is somewhat more  outspoken that the women he is used to, but much more intriguing as  well.<br />The historical backdrop for this story is well done.  There is  enough of the flavor of Elizabethan England to make it totally believable,  but it is not bogged down in detail.  Both Richard and Sharon are honest,  intelligent, and likable characters with great sexual chemistry.  I totally  bought into their romance, the struggles each of them has with the  situation and their unusual circumstances, and the choices they must make  in order to resolve their dilemmas.  My only criticism would be that I  wanted to know more about their life together after the story was over, so  I'm hoping there's going to be a sequel.  Another wonderful, entertaining,  and pleasing story by Terri Brisbin.  Don't miss it!	2000-09-07
US	52942551	R33BWP7PYUH7YK	0380813165	416358899	A Great Catch	Books	5	10	11	N	N	A wonderful, sizzling new contemporary by Michelle Jerott!	A Great Catch by Michelle Jerott Review by Barb Deane, Barb's All Romance  Book Store<br />Michelle Jerott's third book, her latest Avon contemporary, is  entitled A Great Catch.  What a perfect title for this book - be sure not  to miss this one!<br />A Great Catch is set in and around Milwaukee, Wisconsin  but most of the action takes place on the Taliesen, a grand old steamer  that has been reconditioned and newly christened as a cruise ship  travelling Lake Michigan between Milwaukee, Chicago, and various ports in  Michigan.  Something about drama on the high seas, even when the  &quot;sea&quot; is one of our great lakes, takes the overall level of  intensity up a notch from the very first pages of this book.  And of  course, throw in great characters as well and you have a riveting  story.<br />Tessa Jardine has been hired on as the First Mate of the Taliesen,  the kind of job she has been dreaming of since her early academy days and  throughout her career in shipping.  Being a woman, and a young woman at  that, has never been easy in her male world, but Tessa has learned to deal  with the snide remarks and sexist jokes.  What she didn't expect to deal  with, however, is the fact that Lucas Hall is the Taliesen's captain.  Not  only was Lucas her first lover before leaving her high and dry, more than  ten years ago, he is also the man responsible for the death of Tessa's  younger brother Matt in one of Lake Michigan's greatest shipping  disasters.<br />Lucas Hall has had a hell of a life.  His work in the Coast  Guard was not only challenging but, at times, overwhelming.  Being the  closest thing to a cop on water, he dealt with all of mankind's evils and  inhumanities while keeping the various shores of our country safe.  While  visiting the Coast Guard station while on vaction, Lucas ends up commanding  the rescue attempt on the McKee, which exploded and sank, plunging five men  to their deaths on the bottom of Lake Michigan.  When given the chance, he  becomes the captain of the Taliesen to face his fears and continuing  nightmares in an attempt to redeem himself and lay old ghosts to rest.   However, having Tessa as his first mate, and the close quarters that come  with life on board, does nothing for his peace of mind.<br />Michelle has  created very realistic, believable characters who are both drawn together  and pulled apart by life and circumstance.  Their struggle to find a way  through the pain and past the protocol of shipboard romance is well crafted  and, often, heart wrenching.  Carefully drawn suspense elements add to the  sexual tension and on-going conflicts to create a sizzling page-turner.   Truly, this is a book you should not miss - positively A Great Catch.	2000-09-07
US	52942551	RZINC0JAU5UHN	0373225768	513195775	A Man of Honor (Harlequin Intrigue No. 576) (A Crookseye Canyon Story)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	A great new romantic suspense from Tina Leonard...	A MAN OF HONOR by Tina Leonard Review by Barb Deane, Barb's All Romance Book Store<br />Tina Leonard's first Harlequin Intrique, A Man of Honor, HI #576, is a July release.  You may be familiar with Tina's many Harlequin  American Romances.  Even if you are not, don't miss this great new romantic  suspense.  A Man of Honor definitely delivers.  Here's our review:<br />Tessa  Draper is unmarried, pregnant, and in big trouble with her mother, as well  as some unknown but dangerous assailants.  The father of her child, Hunt  Greer, is missing and Tessa doesn't even know if he's still alive, much  less whether she'd ever see him again if he is.  He doesn't know that she  is carrying the child they created on an adventure in Madrid.  When he  disappeared in Madrid, she came back home to Crookseye Canyon, Texas to  have her baby and make a life for herself.<br />Cord Greer, Hunt's brother, is  suspicious when two men show up at his door and report that Hunt is dead.   What really doesn't sit well with him is the two men's interest in Cord  fiancee - they want to know how to find Tessa and Cord is not willing to  risk her safety by giving out any information on her.  After they leave,  Cord convinces Tessa to come stay out on his ranch so that he can protect  her while he finds out what the true story is about Hunt.  Unfortunately,  not only can Cord not learn any truth about Hunt, he can't keep his eyes or  his thoughts off of the mother of Hunt's child.<br />Cord wants to do the  honorable thing by his brother's woman, but he has loved Tessa for many  years.  The three of them grew up together in Crookseye Canyon, but when  Hunt expressed his interest in Tessa, Cord pulled back.  Now that Hunt is  missing and possibly dead, Cord has to try to control his romantic interest  in her in order to do what is right and keep her safe.<br />Tina has created  an interesting town in Crookseye Canyon and I am hoping she will revisit it  in a future Intrique.   Cord and Tessa are perfect for each other, although  their mutual sense of honor and loyalty to Hunt initially keeps them from  seeing the truth.  Both the suspense and the sexual tension are well drawn  and believable, even when Tessa is nine months pregnant.  This was a  wonderful read and I hope it is merely the first in a long line of romantic  suspense from Tina Leonard.  Don't miss it!	2000-07-17
US	52942551	R9J45B1B1DBE0	0440235286	449042463	Once Wicked	Books	4	9	11	N	N	Another great new regency historical from Sherri Browning...	Once Wicked by Sherri Browning Review by Barb Deane, Barb's All Romance Book Store<br />Sherri Browning's second historical romance from Dell is a July release entitled Once Wicked.  Like The Scoundrel's Vow, Sherri's  first book, Once Wicked is a delightful regency-era historical.  You may  order Once Wicked by clicking on the cover above.  Here's our  review:<br />Amelia Benedict is a wealthy young woman with a loving heart.   She gives her time and money to help her uncle and the orphans he takes  care of, partly because she herself was orphaned.  She has endured censure  by the ton due to her philanthropic endeavors, including being barred from  Almack's.  But now that she's decided she wants to get married and have a  family, she's begun attending many social events while making up her mind  on the man she will fall in love with.  On the way home one night, she is  held up by a highwayman.<br />Dylan Marlow is an impoverished  pseudo-gentleman.  The only nephew of an Earl, he was nonetheless  disinherited due to a childish prank that got him expelled from Oxford.   When his father died and left Dylan a shipyard, he also left Dylan a load  of debt.  Once the debts had been paid off, the only ship he still owned  was in dry dock, awaiting repairs.  Dylan was faced with the challenge of  finding a way to pay for the necessary repairs so that he could get his  shipping business on its feet again and start earning money again.<br />Enter  the highwayman - Dylan's clever idea for making money.  Unfortunately, the  first coach he stops is Amelia's and he gets more than he bargained for -  he finds an intriguing woman that he can't get off his mind.  Dylan decides  to pursue Amelia as an Earl's nephew because she is so wealthy and would  suit his purpose wonderfully.  Instead, he falls in love with her.   However, since Amelia is attracted to the highway and annoyed by Dylan, it  presents a bit of a problem for him to win her over. <br />The chemistry  between these characters is delightful, as is the humor of the Dylan vs.  Amelia sparring.  The dark intrigue of a mysterious highwayman adds to the  sexual tension.  Sherri has shown herself to be not a one-hit wonder, but a  promising new author with serious talent.  Don't miss this one!	2000-07-17
US	52942551	R3A924VFBJBW9O	0440235618	133960997	The Dangerous Gentleman (Rogues of Regent Street, Book 1)	Books	5	28	29	N	N	A wonderful new trilogy begins from Julia London	Julia London's newest release, her third regency era historical from Dell, is entitled The Dangerous Gentleman.  It is the first in The Rogues of Regent Street trilogy, to be followed by The Ruthless Charmer in the Fall  of 2000 and The Beautiful Stranger in 2001. <br />Adrian Spence is definitely  a tortured hero; not only was he raised in an abusive home by a ruthless  father that beat his mother to death and tormented Adrian, the heir, in  favor of his younger brother, but the story begins with Adrian being forced  to kill his cousin and one of his fellow Rogues of Regent Street in a duel  gone wrong.  When his father uses the duel as the excuse he's been looking  for in order to disinherit Adrian in favor of his younger brother Benedict.   Adrian, in his depression over the death of his cousin Phillip and his  continuing rage at his father and brother, grabs the perfect opportunity to  get revenge against Benedict, by marrying the woman Benedict intended to  wed. <br />Lilliana Dashell is stunned when Adrian shows up at her home  instead of Benedict, whom she has come to accept will be her future  husband.  Lilliana remembers Adrian favorably from when she was a young  girl and visited Adrian's mother, when she first became enamored of the  handsome Adrian.  She is completely shocked when Adrian not only proposes  marriage but makes short work of it, having already procured the special  license.  She agrees because he promises that they can be friends,  companions, and she loves him enough to hope for more.  What she gets is a  lot less. <br />The chemistry between these two people is sizzling and the  nights they spend in each other arms are irreconcilable with the distant  and formal way in which Adrian treats Lilliana during the day.  She is  distraught that he is so unconcerned with and uninterested in her, except  in her bed at night.  She tries to determine what has caused Adrian to cut  himself off from other people and in the process learns a lot, but also  causes a number of other problems for them.  When Adrian is injured in an  accident, he becomes even more intolerable and her love is severely tested.  <br />I found these characters to be completely engaging and fun, as well as  sensual and exciting.  The long and sometimes painful journey that Julia  takes them on to reach their happily-ever-after is not only interesting and  unpredictable, but also rewarding.  The other two remaining Rogues of  Regent Street, Adrian's friends Arthur and Julian, add an interesting  element to the story and give us a glimpse of what we will find in the  remaining two books in this trilogy.  I thoroughly enjoyed The Dangerous  Gentleman and anxiously await the next book.  Great work, Julia! Barb Deane  Copyrightc 1999, Barb's All Romance Book Store. All rights reserved	2000-04-14
US	52942551	R2WIYNFBTIZ6NN	0380796368	595305092	The Maiden Bride	Books	5	39	42	N	N	Another winner from Linda Needham!	Linda Needham's latest book from Avon, The Maiden Bride, is a wonderful medieval and sure to please all of her fans out there who wait patiently, and not-so-patiently, for each of Linda's newest books.  It will also  attract more fans over to Linda's camp because of the beautifully crafted  prose, the dark and brooding hero and a wonderfully intelligent,  independent, and practical heroine - my favorite kind!<br />Lady Eleanor  Bayard was married by proxy to William Nicholas Bayard, although she had  never met him.  When she learns of his death following the great plague,  she decides to assert her rightful claim as his widow to Faulkhurst Castle.   Granted this property by her craft king, she takes her little ragtag band  of misfits across the countryside to the Northwest Coast of England to her  deserted, crumbling castle.  Eleanor knows the castle is in need of a lot  of work and a lot of people to fill it and the surrounding village, so she  plants the seeds of gossip along her trek.  By leaving hints that the new  Lady of Faulkhurst will be tithing to her tenants for five years, instead  of the other way around, Eleanor is able to attract more and more misfits  to join her.  However, the greatest misfit of all is waiting for her deep  in the shadows of the castle - &quot;Nicholas,&quot; who agrees to be her  steward when he can't scare her off, but who is really her tormented  husband.<br />Nicholas has pledged himself to complete the rebuilding of the  chapel at Faulkhurst before he dons a monks robes and sentences himself to  life in a monastery.  He is doing a self-imposed penance for the terrible  life he led which he believes resulted in the plague that took the life of  his young, illegitimate son.  He does not want to have anything to do with  Eleanor, even more so after he discovers she is his wife, but he cannot  leave her to endanger herself or the children and innocents with which she  surrounds herself by letting her live in the ramshackle castle.So, he  takes on the role of steward and starts to set to rights the very  destruction that he himself wrought on the castle and its  belongings.<br />Even with such a dark, brooding hero, there is so much humor  in the interactions between Eleanor and Nicholas that I found myself  laughing out loud.  She is a feisty and intelligent woman; Nicholas has had  little contact with such females in his life of battle and decadence.  He  is headstrong and opinionated about the way his castle should be run, but  doesn't want to reveal his identity to his wife.  She is headstrong  herself, but also optimistic and genuinely good-hearted.  The various  thieves and cutthroats that show up at the doors of the castle, in answer  to Eleanor's prayers for tradesmen, make for an entertaining little troupe  of secondary characters.<br />The sexual tension in this story is wonderful,  especially because the hero and heroine become friends and develop a strong  sense of trust and affection before they ever get to a bed.  In fact,  Eleanor's concern that her unconsummated marriage puts her claim to the  castle at risk creates some humorous and tense moments for  Nicholas.<br />Those of you who know and love Linda's work will not be  disappointed by The Maiden Bride.  If you haven't read any of her books,  but are a lover of medieval, historical or just general romance, please  pick this one up.  It's sure to bring a smile to your face, a tear to your  eye, and a quick pit-pat to your heart.  Great work, Linda! Barb Deane  Copyrightc 1999, Barb's All Romance Book Store. All rights reserved	2000-04-14
US	52942551	R3NUFSEUMDEQMS	0380807157	26838172	It Must Be Love	Books	5	48	53	N	N	Another winner from Rachel Gibson...Keep 'em coming!	It Must Be Love is set in Idaho, Rachel's home state, and features a wonderfully sensual and completely to-die-for hero, Joe Shanahan. I have to admit, there was nothing about this book that I didn't love. <br />Studly  undercover cop Joe Shanahan meets the heroine, Gabrielle Breedlove, because  he is tailing her as part of an investigation into a major art theft. When  he follows her on her morning jog about one week into his surveillance,  Gabrielle jumps him, sprays hairspray in his eyes, wrestles him to the  ground, and threatens him with an antique derringer.  Needless to say, our  boy Joe is not pleased that a light-weight, new-ager art and antique dealer  got the jump on him. Sparks fly from the very start. <br />Gabrielle is  petrified because she thinks Joe is a stalker. Once she finds out he's a  cop and she's under arrest for assault and carrying concealed, she can't  even stand to look at Joe because she's so angry. Of course, that's when  she's informed that she, her partner, and her shop are under investigation  for fencing stolen art. When she agrees to help the police by acting as an  informant, she finds out Joe will be there the whole time, posing as her  boyfriend. Obviously, this makes for some interesting scenes. <br />In  addition to the steam created by the hero and heroine, this book is filled  with interesting secondary characters. Gabrielle's mother is a  self-proclaimed psychic who has a vision of Gabrielle's love affair with a  dark, handsome stranger. Joe's family, including his four older sisters,  are determined to get Joe married and happily producing more grandchildren  for his parents. Joe's pet parrot, Sam, has a potty mouth from watching too  many Jerry Springer episodes, but is equally fond of Clint Eastwood.  And  even the bad guy, Gabrielle's partner Kevin, has covered every inch of his  bedroom in mirrors where &quot;Mr. Happy&quot; entertains the girl of the  month. Against this eclectic and rich backdrop, Rachel has crafteda funny,  tender, and sensual journey for Joe and Gabrielle to travel, in order to  achieve their little slice of heaven. <br />One of my favorite moments, other  than the witty conversation and sizzling chemistry, is when Joe realizes  (as we wish we all could realize sooner) that what he thought he wanted in  a wife wasn't what was going to make him happy. And that what will make him  happy in life, Gabrielle, is fine just the way she is, even though she's so  far off what he had been envisioning. This is a great book, definitely a  keeper, and is one more reason to wait with baited breath for Rachel's next  book. Great job, Rachel - keep up the good work! Barb Deane Copyrightc  1999, Barb's All Romance Book Store. All rights reserved	2000-03-31
US	52942551	R36KPXHZ8RMCWY	1929034113	59648250	Dark Salvation	Books	4	6	6	N	N	A exciting new author with a vampire-type romance story!	Rebecca Morgan is a free-lance reporter on the trail of a hot story.  Desmond Lacroix, and the secrets he guards fiercely, is her hot story.  When Rebecca travels to Arizona to tour the mysterious Prescott Institute,  she is determined to unravel the secrets behind both the work done there  and the director, Lacroix. However, the secrets she is seeking based on her  reporter's imagination don't even come close to the reality  that is  Desmond Lacroix's life.<br />Desmond's main focus in life is saving the life  of his three year old daughter, Gillian. Gillian is has a very rare disease  that has been killing her since the moment she was born. Her mother died  shortly after Gillian's birth of a rare form of leukemia that was  exacerbated by Desmond's curse, although we don't know for the longest time  what his curse truly is. All we know is that he strictly guards the  security of his Institute and the various types of research going on there.  <br />Rebecca not only becomes intrigued with Desmond and the institute, but  she turns out to be a possible bone-marrow donor for Gillian. When she  resists the tests needed to determine complete compatibility, Desmond is  able to persuade her using his telepathic abilities. He is also able to   detect that Rebecca is telepathic, although she doesn't know it. As she  spends more time at the institute, Rebecca is unable to deny the feelings   she has for Desmond and the intensity of their chemistry. <br />The world into  which Jennifer Dunne takes us in Dark Salvation is just slightly skewed  from our own. It is possible to see how such a reality might occur and how  these two people could find each other given all the odds stacked against  them. I was drawn into the story from the very beginning because I like the  strong and independent heroine, which Rebecca definitely is. Desmond  creates that mysterious aura that invokes images of intense passion  soul-wrenching love. These elements are a large part of Desmond and  Rebecca's story and certainly how they are each other's Dark Salvation.  Barb Deane Copyrightc 1999, Barb's All Romance Book Store. All rights  reserved	2000-03-31
US	52942551	RFGUDCE74IVHK	0843946687	969032686	Cinnamon and Roses	Books	4	17	19	N	N	A great read from a promising new author!	CINNAMON AND ROSES by Heidi Betts Review by Barb Deane, Barb's All Romance Book Store<br />New author Heidi Betts has her debut book, Cinnamon and Roses, out this month from Leisure Books.  Cinnamon and Roses is a American  historical, set in Leavenworth, Kansas in 1880.  Heidi has created a warm  and wonderful picture of the old west that is definitely worth your time to  visit.<br />Rebecca grew up in a storeroom in the brothel that employed her  mother, literally exposed to the seediest sides of life in Kansas City.   When the madam suggested that Rebecca was old enough, at 13, to start  earning her keep, Rebecca snuck out of town in the back of a stage coach.   When the end of the road was Leavenworth, Rebecca was lucky enough to be  &quot;adopted&quot; by a loving widow who not only gave Rebecca the first  home she'd ever known, but a means to support herself as well by teaching  her to become a seamstress.<br />When Caleb Adams brought his mistress to the  local seamstress for a new gown, it never occurred to him that the dowdy  little seamstress would be of any interest to him.  However, when he fails  to pay his bill in full, Rebecca turns the full power of her passion and  survival instincts on him.  He not only forks over the disputed sum, but  gives his heart to the beautiful and independent young woman as well.  The  sparks that fly between these two strong-willed characters are very  interesting and intriguing.<br />Although several incidents threaten their  happiness, including a marriage of convenience, Caleb and Rebecca's  struggle to find a life together is well-written and enjoyable.  Heidi  shows real talent for creating likable characters, including Caleb's  younger sister Megan.  I hope we are going to see Megan come into her own  in a future story.  Great work, Heidi, especially for a first book.  I  can't wait for the next one! Barb Deane Copyrightc 1999, Barb's All Romance  Book Store. All rights reserved	2000-01-18
US	52942551	RNMEEWKU9K8ME	0505523515	756905912	Lord of the Keep	Books	5	22	23	N	N	A great medieval romance with wonderful characters!	Ann Lawrence's second book, Lord of the Keep, from LoveSpell's Perfect Heroes series is a great medieval historical - quite different from the paranormal Virtual Heaven, her first book. The physical image conjured in  my mind by the series title, Perfect Heroes, doesn't exactly match forty  year old Gilles d'Argent, but the label fits him nonetheless. What a  wonderful story this is with delightful characters and some unusual  twists.<br />Gilles meets Emma, a talented weaver, when her uncle brings her  before him claiming she has given away her virtue and therefore cost him  the benefit of a marriage arranged for her. Emma refuses to name her lover,  to whom she considers herself married because of the private vows of  marriage they exchanged. Two years later, when Gilles rescues Emma and her  baby, Angelique, from the attack of mad dogs, she comes back to his notice.  He brings her into his household and makes her his private weaver. Of  course, the lover she thought she married, and who subsequently abandoned  her and their baby, is Sir William, a member of Gilles's household.  <br />Although she is only a weaver, Emma is befriended by Sarah, wife of  Gilles's close friend Roland and apparent housekeeper of Hawkwatch Keep.  Although fascinated with Emma, Gilles is hesitant to take her as a wife,  given her lowly station, or as a leman, her obvious dignity. He also fears  rejection due to his advancing age and Emma's obvious appeal to the younger  and more handsome men of the Keep.  They cannot deny the feelings they have  for each other, however, and become both friends and lovers. When Emma  realizes the feelings she had for William cannot compare with the love she  develops for Gilles, she agrees to become Gilles's leman. The jealousies  that arise between Gilles and William make for some interesting scenes, and  eventually lead to a crucial turning point for Gilles and Emma.<br />I was  enchanted by this sweet story, by Gilles and Emma, Sarah and Roland, andother secondary characters, as well as the story as a whole. Even Sir  William is a complex villain, who causes some complicated plot twists. I  liked the fact that Gilles, a great warrior and Lord of the Keep, was  nonetheless insecure in his appeal due as compared to younger men, while  Emma never gave this fact the least thought. Lord of the Keep is a  wonderful tale, which I strongly recommend.  Ann Lawrence is obviously a  new author to watch. Enjoy!	2000-01-11
US	52942551	R3K19WDMOMDPVA	0373079834	995016477	The Comeback of Con MacNeill (Silhouette Intimate Moments No. 983)	Books	5	11	12	N	N	Virginia Kantra - keep writing those incredible heros!	Virginia Kantra's third Silhouette Intimate Moment, The Comeback of Con MacNeill, is the second in the MacNeill brothers series started in her last book, The Passion of Patrick MacNeill.   Don't miss this book - these  MacNeill brothers are true hero material and Virginia's stories are  riveting.<br />Con MacNeill is a driven, professional businessman. When his  engagement and career path take unexpected turns in Boston, he decides to  take some time working for himself as a consultant until he makes his  comeback into the material world he knows best. In his capacity as a  business analyst, he is hired by Edward Cutler, banker and namesake of the  founding family in Cutler, North Carolina. Cutler wants Con to make a  success of his daughter's vegetarian restaurant, although Val Cutler is  less than enthusiastic about accepting his help.   The mystery behind Val's  business problems is simple enough for Con to uncover. But the emotional  outgrowth of their working together both to save Val's business and to save  her best friend from an abusive, controlling husband, is enough to keep  readers turning pages. I was not only drawn into the story, but captivated  by the characters and unwilling to put this book down until it was finished  - in one sitting! As much as I loved Patrick MacNeill's story, Con's is  much more compelling and absorbing. Don't miss these MacNeill brothers,  including the third brother yet to come. Virginia is a talented new SIM  author and definitely one to watch!	2000-01-10
US	52942551	RMVBYIJYRPQTR	0671020722	116631379	Temptress (Sonnet Books)	Books	5	17	17	N	N	A terrific regency-era historical &amp; great new author!	TEMPTRESS by Victoria Malvey Review by Barb Deane, Barb's All Romance Book Store<br />Relatively new author Victoria Malvey's third book is a December release from Sonnet books.  I will first admit that, although I have met  Vicky several times, I had not yet read any of her books before Temptress.   Now that I have, however, I will definitely be gloaming her backlist and  anxiously awaiting her upcoming releases.  She is an author to watch - a  very talented storyteller with a gift for words.<br />Temptress is a story of  how a person's perceived past indiscretions can form not only society's  opinion but also your own opinion of the person.  In this case, both the  hero and heroine were wrongly judged by the actions of their parents.   Rosaleen Fleming's mother was her father's mistress before they were  married which, of course, makes them and Rosaleen the objects of scorn by  the Ton.  Although their family life is happy and filled with love,  Rosaleen has trouble controlling her temper when the grand dames of the Ton  mock or belittle her family.    <br />Lucien St. Cyr comes from the most  distinguished of families, or so he thinks.  However, the shock he suffers  when he finds out his family bloodlines are not exactly as he had been  raised to believe they were is more than he can handle.  His own perception  of the changes this news make on him and his life are what drive him down  into the dregs of acceptable society.<br />When Rosaleen and Luc get together,  their chemistry is exciting, their wit and conversation is entertaining,  and the rightness of their love is visible to the reader immediately.   However, the obstacles thrown into their path of love, including a  mysterious trail of murders to be solved, keep them from believing that  they can be happy together.  Vicky does a great job of making each of them  perfect for the other, but not in any way boring.  I can believe that  Rosaleen and Luc will have a happily ever after not only because the heatbetween them is so real, but the intelligent conversation, respect, and  friendship between them is binding.  <br />Regency-era historicals are very  popular these days and you can find lots of books in this genre to satisfy  your yen.  As a long-time lover of these stories, however, I have to admit  that some of the recent books are not what they should be.  However,  Victoria Malvey's Temptress is definitely a Regency-era historical in the  best of traditions.  Like an early Amanda Quick or Mary Jo Putney, I can  see that this book will have staying power and be popular for many, many  years.  Great job, Vicky!  I can't wait for the next one.	2000-01-10
US	52942551	RP2JGE2QCLTHT	0380800829	704647865	The Duke and I (Bridgerton Series, Book 1)	Books	5	44	49	N	N	Another great Regency-era romp by Julia Quinn	THE DUKE AND I by Julia Quinn Review by Barb Deane, Barb's All Romance Book Store<br />Julia Quinn's latest Regency-era historical from Avon's  Romantic Treasures line is entitled The Duke and I.  The Duke and I is the  latest in her line of classic movie title parodies, following How To Marry  a Marquis and To Catch an Heiress.  Like the classic movies with which  these books share similar titles, these books are fun, entertaining romps  that you should be sure not to miss.<br />Simon Basset, the Duke of Hastings, had a difficult childhood, to say the least. His mother died giving birth to him, he couldn't speak until he was four years old, and his father rejected him because, when he did speak, he had a terrible stutter. Although Simon and his faithful nurse worked hard at ridding Simon of the stutter, he was so soured on his father, especially after the man told his servants that Simon was dead, that his life became focused on thwarting his father at every opportunity<br />Daphne Bridgerton is the oldest  daughter in a large, close, but somewhat eccentric, ton family.  After two  seasons and no marriage, Daphne's mother fears that she will end up on the  shelf.  Given that there are three more daughters to marry off, Daphne's  mother become obsessed with getting Daphne a husband.  To that end, Daphne  is paraded out and forced to endure all of the more boorish men of the ton,  in search for the acceptable husband.  Fortunately, Daphne's oldest brother  Anthony, the head of the household and Simon's best friend, is not inclined  to force Daphne into an unhappy marriage.<br />When Daphne and Simon meet,  they each know enough of each other from Anthony to be fairly comfortable  together, even given the immediate attraction between them.  When Simon  suggests that they act as if they have formed an attachment for each other,  thereby saving Simon from the mothers of all the marriageable girls and  making Daphne more attractive to the other eligible bachelors, Daphneagrees to his crazy scheme.  What they are unable to control, however, is  the way that the attraction between them grows in the inevitable  togetherness their plan requires.<br />The Duke and I is full of Julia's  characteristic humor and her delightful trademark chapter openers - in this  case, excerpts from the gossip column of Lady Whistledown.  However, I did  find that The Duke and I was not quite as light as Julia's recent books.   Simon's angst-filled childhood and the scars that his father left behind,  made Simon a more complex hero, for which Daphne had to be a deeper heroine  as well.  Their friendship and lively conversation made the tendre that  developed between them very believable.  The secondary characters were  intriguing and I hope that we will see many of Daphne's numerous siblings  in future stories.  I have enjoyed every book Julia Quinn has written, and  The Duke and I was no exception.  Don't miss this wonderful story!<br />Barb  Deane Copyrightc 1999, Barb's All Romance Book Store. All rights reserved	2000-01-09
US	52942551	R2YUWJNXE4WLJZ	0515126837	679728732	A Matter of Time (Time Passages)	Books	5	9	11	N	N	A great follow-up to Terri's first Scottish Time-Travel...	A MATTER OF TIME by Terri Brisbin Review by Barb Deane, Barb'sAll Romance Book Store<br />Terri Brisbin's second book from the JoveTime Passages imprint, A Matter of Time, is the sequel to her first book, A Love Through Time.  This book features Douglas MacKendimen, son of Maggie and Alex.  If you haven't read A Love Through Time, rush out and get it too so that you can read both of these beautiful books.<br />Terri is a new author and has found a wonderful voice for these time-travel books.  Both are set in modern day and fourteenth Century Scotland, although Maggie, Alex and Douglas are actually Americans.  Whereas Alex and Maggie travelled through time together, their son Douglas walks through the stone arch all alone.  This makes for an interesting contrast to the previous book and leaves you wondering from the very start if he stays or she goes.<br />Douglas is a twentieth century American doctor visiting Scotland for the annual MacKendimen family gathering.  When he finds himself running through the forest of his fourteenth century clansmen, killing three men in an attempt to save the young woman whose face has haunted his dreams for years, he ends up unconscious from a heavy duty knock on the head. Fortunately for him, this woman, Caitlin, is the clan MacKendimen healer and she is able to bring him back from the fires of fever and the doors of death.  She, too, has foreseen their meeting in her dreams, which are identical to the dreams Douglas has had.<br />Once he awakens, it is difficult for him to believe that he has actually travelled through time, even though his parents told him of their own journey to this very time.  Although a few things have changed in the years since his parents left, many of the people there remember his parents and knew of their time-travel.  They help him adjust and come to believe in the impossible, as well as finding him useful work with Caitlin in healing the clan's ill.<br />The sexual chemistry between Douglas and Caitlin is immediate; actually it begins before they ever meet, due to their intense dreams.  Their skills and knowledge in healing compliment each other, all to the benefit of the clan.  But they both know that Douglas is a visitor in this time and that he will be going back when the Fates dictate it.  Although they try to fight the attraction they feel for each other, it is much too strong to be denied.<br />Terri has done a wonderful job of making the logistics and reasoning behind time-travel believable.  I believed that Douglas found ways to make himself useful in medieval Scotland, although he longed for the comforts of his own time as well as the technology of his medical training.  The love story is strong and compelling, as is the suspense of how these two will end up together.  If you enjoy time-travels, or even if you have never tried one, I strongly recommend A Matter of Time, as well as A Love Through Time.  Read and enjoy!  Barb Deane Copyright 1999, Barb's All Romance Book Store. All rights reserved	1999-11-16
US	52942551	R9BC4OV3UW225	0440235219	124194409	Swept Away	Books	5	18	22	N	N	Another great regency-era historical from Marsha Canham.	Swept Away by Marsha Canham Review by Barb Deane, Barb's All Romance Book Store<br />Marsha Canham's newest release from Dell is a regency-era historical entitled Swept Away.  Those of you who are regular fans of  Marsha's books, as I admittedly am, will enjoy the vibrant characters,  unusual plot twists, and descriptive details that are the hallmarks of  Marsha's stories.  Those of you who haven't read a Canham book before have  picked a good place to start.<br />Unlike so many regency-era historicals  which refer to Napoleon in their stories, Swept Away begins in Napoleon's  own point of view.  The diminutive despot has escaped Elba and is hatching  a new plot, surrounded by his loyal few, among who is our hero, Emory  Althorpe, aka Rory.  When next we see Rory, he has washed ashore on the  beach adjacent to Florence Widdicombe's home in England and his nearly  naked body is discovered by Florence's niece, Annaleah Fairchilde.  Anna  has been banished by her angry parents to spend time with her eccentric  &quot;Aunt Lal&quot; until she is willing to accept a proposal of marriage  from the esteemed Winston Perry, marquess of Barrimore.  Anna, an  independent young woman and perceptive judge of character, has refused to  consider Barrimore because he does not laugh, is unkind to those he  considers beneath him, and makes her uneasy.  So, Anna is shipped to the  coast to spend a fortnight with her crazy aunt.<br />After Rory is dragged to  Widdicombe House to recover, it is discovered that he has amnesia.  Both  Florence and Rory's younger brother, the Reverend Stanley Althorpe, try to  help him regain his memory.  With their help and through the long talks  with Anna, Rory learns enough to know he is wanted for treason and is being  hunted like a dog.  He also discovers an incredible chemistry with the fair  Anna.  When he leaves Widdicombe House to find the truth about himself, he  takes a piece of Anna's heart along with him.  The trip becomes even more  interesting when Rory kidnaps Anna in the middle of her own journey with  her brother and Lord Barrimore.  From there, their adventures increase in  speed, intensity and danger, as their love blossoms.<br />Marsha has created a  world that is full of deceit and shadows, at the same time fashioning a  heroine who is able to see most people and things for what they are,  despite her youth and innocence.  Anna is strong, sensible, and independent  - my favorite kind of heroine.  She is the perfect mate for Rory, given his  dark and mysterious past and his internal angst.  Their chemistry is steamy  and their conversations delightfully witty.  The secondary characters are  intriguing and the historical background is riveting.  While you cannot go  wrong with any Marsha Canham book, her latest is sure to sweep you away.   Barb Deane Copyright 1999, Barb's All Romance Book Store. All rights  reserved	1999-11-16
US	52942551	R27RU08RT5BY24	0380802074	388210321	Courting Claire	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Courting Claire is a touching story set along the Ohio River	Courting Claire is Linda O'Brien's second book under this name, although she had two other titles under her own name of Linda Eberhardt. Courting Claire is an American historical, set in late-nineteenth century Indiana,  along the banks of the Ohio River. This story flows as smoothly as the  river that is central to its plot and is a thoroughly enjoyable read that I  can highly recommend.<br />Claire Cavanaugh is about to graduate from college  when she learns her step-father has died. She quickly retrieves her sister  Emily from the special school for the blind that she attends and they book  passage on a river boat known as the Lady Luck to take them back home to  Fortune. That boat happens to be owned by Tyler McCane who, after saving  Emily's life and seeing the sisters safely home, goes into partnership with  Claire's archenemy in an attempt to steal her home out from under her and  turn it into an inn catering to the river boat business they plan to  build.<br />Of course, Tyler is intrigued by Claire from the beginning. She  has the strength and intelligence to beat the bank trying to foreclose on  her home and starts taking in boarders to pay the bills. An interesting  cast of secondary characters, including Emily, Tyler's friend Jonas, and  the new housekeeper Lulu, add great dimension and depth to the plot. These  are likable people that I grew to care about and, for whom Linda was able  to create interesting and believable twists and turns.<br />The evil-doer,  Reginald Boothe, has enough history with Claire and her family to make his  drive for revenge believable. I am never entirely sure why he has such  overwhelming and far-reaching power in this town, other than the fact that  it was a small town, he was the president of the bank, and a really  conniving, bad dude. But, he is certainly bad and does it well.<br />The  internal struggles that cause Claire and Tyler to doubt each other and the  love that develops between them adds to the external struggles they face to  save her home. The similarity of their wounded souls gives them a base for  understanding, but also allows each to teach the other to trust and love.  This is a strong story with good characters that I believe you will find  enchanting - don't miss it!	1999-10-14
US	52942551	R3I8QP3MC9M7WI	0843945427	848556692	Unveiled (Love Spell)	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Great historical romance debut from a promising new author!	Unveiled, a July Leisure Historical Romance, is the first book from new author Jenni Licata.  I, for one, am glad that I will be able to say I remember when her first book came out, because Jenni is destined to become  a big name in romance.  Unveiled is a dynamic British historical, set in  the early 18th century, with terrific characters.  The story is engaging  and entertaining, and the hero and heroine are appealing, three-dimensional  characters.<br />In the beginning of the book, the heroine, Lady Victoria  Wynter, floats through a ballroom dressed in costume, including mask.  The  first mystery in this story is the identity of this masked lady.  But, it  isn't the masked lady who is unveiled; Alexandre Rawlings, Earl of Carlton,  figures out Tori's identity very early in the story.  The mystery that is  unveiled is much more intriguing and surprising.  In fact, I wasn't sure  which of two secondary characters was going to be the bad guy and which the  good until very near the end.<br />The attraction between Alex and Tori is  believable and compelling.  Tori is trying to protect her younger brother,  Charles, and is therefore forced into situations she wouldn't normally be  in because of that.  Alex feels the need to protect Tori, which conflicts  with his pre-ordained mission for the queen.  I was somewhat uncertain why  the fact that Alex's mother was French was such a burden on Alex; I guess I  may need a refresher on my 18th century English history.  However, the fact  that Alex took on a responsibility which conflicted with his personal  beliefs and his feelings for Tori made for some interesting  moments.<br />Jenni has created very real, well-drawn characters with a great  deal of sexual tension and chemistry.  Tori is an independent, intelligent  woman, if somewhat naive and single-minded.  Alex is honorable,  misunderstood, and sensitive, although not particularly fond of London  society.  There were a few places in the story where I thought the language  was somewhat stilted, but the story was compelling and kept me reading late  into the night.<br />I am truly looking forward to Jenni's next book.  I  believe she has a great deal of talent for historical romance and will  certainly go on to write many more great books!  Be sure to pick up  Unveiled and enjoy!	1999-05-27
