US	52956995	R1Q99UAZ0ALXMR	0451411692	972323555	Dangerous Games	Books	3	17	17	N	N	Not quite up to par	I've read all of the author's previous books and have enjoyed them immensely.  He consistently maintains high levels of suspense with interesting twists and compelling characters.  His previous books have focused mostly on the serial killer and the victims.  Dangerous Games is different: it reads more like a standard police procedural and lacks the suspense (the main villain is known almost immediately; the partner is telegraphed in short order), and lacks the psychological edge (the killer is rather tedious, almost a cliche) of his previous books. <br /> <br />I found Tess McCallum, the maverick FBI agent who was so good in Next Victim to be a much less sympathetic character: she seemed so self-absorbed and hypocritical than in the earlier book.  Abby Sinclair comes off better but not by much.  I hope that this pairing does not become a regular feature in Mr. Prescott's writing. <br /> <br />The bottom line is that there are enough police procedurals on the market without Mr. Prescott joining the group.  It would be a great loss as his prior books have been, to me at least, wonderful works of psychological drama and suspense.  I am anxious to see his next book and hope for a return to the old form.	2005-02-26
US	52956995	R1JCIQMM9SF1TS	0761525610	481704762	Eisenhower and Churchill: The Partnership That Saved the World	Books	1	4	4	N	N	A Huge Disappointment	Mr. Hagerty, who wrote the prior review of this book, was kinder than I can be.  I read David Eisenhower's Foreward and recalled what a fine writer he is - as is his father, John Eisenhower.  Unfortunately, Mr. Humes has done a remarkably poor job of telling the story of the Churchill - Eisenhower relationship.  I first became uneasy while reading Humes' own acknowledgments, replete with what appeared to be mere namedropping than acknowledgment of assistance in preparing the book.  In fact, it appears more likely that the author simply put the thing together relying on faulty memory rather than on independent sources. <br /> <br />I cannot recommend this for anyone who wants to know something about either Churchill or Eisenhower.  The factual errors are so many as to make one wonder how the thing got published.  I found myself wondering about factual statements I knew to be correct because of all the errors.  For the casual historian, this book could in fact prove to be misleading.  To be avoided.	2005-02-09
US	52956995	R2C6P8EZHWIMRO	0399151516	261821914	Reckless Abandon: A Stone Barrington Novel	Books	1	4	5	N	N	Reckless Writing	After reading Blood Orchid, Holly Barker's last caper before she joined up with Stone Barrington, I held out some hope that she would continue as a half-way decent series character.  In Reckless Abandon, all hope of that is abandoned as Stuart Woods has turned her into a cartoon in one of the silliest books I have read in a long time. <br /> <br />The characters, the dialogue, the situations portrayed, are all disappointments, the more so because Woods was once a great writer.  I have credited Woods with getting the characterization of federal agents right but this time he went so far overboard that the story line was totally implausible. <br /> <br />As usual, Woods puts together a plot with great potential.  Then he peoples it with characters who are familiar.  But they have also over the years become silly and irrelevant.  He tosses in mindless dialogue, much of it taking place in his favorite restaurants.  The use of sex and violence is routine for these books but this time it a bit too much.  Especially with Daisy the Rottweiler on the bed with Holly and Stone. <br /> <br />There are just too many good books and good writers to waste any more time with Stuart Woods.  I have to admit that his next one, The Prince of Beverly HIlls, looks interesting.  But what will Woods do with that plot?  I shudder to think.	2004-11-05
US	52956995	R352LT2ZLZY0WH	0727860569	222397482	The Holmes Inheritance	Books	3	8	8	N	N	Not One of Freemantle's Best	At the outset it should be noted that the Publisher's Weekly review (above) is quite misleading.  Fans of Sherlock Holmes know that Mycroft is not anybody\\"s \\"rival politician\\" but a Mandarin of the permanent civil service and for amny years a very powerful man. And Sherlock Holmes, in this story, is as vigorous as ever; his apparent disability is a device to throw off the evil plotters. I would have to take issue with Mr. Freemantle as this is not his usual fare and the attempts to recreat Doyle's style is not a complete success.  The plot itself reflects the Holmes pastische much more than it does Doyle himself. <br /> <br />The plot revolves around Winston Churchill's efforts to learn if the German's are (this is on the brink of World War I) trying to undermine the neutrality of the United States in Germany's favor.  Churchill is played as himself.  The character Sebastian Holmes is played as a headstrong youth who should probably not have been sent on this mission.  But the story is strong enough to carry the characters along and it has an ending which helps to pick up the pace at the end.  In fact, pacing seems to be a real problem here.  And, having Sebastian keep up with the news on the radio in 1914 is a big stretch.  I've read about 20 of Freemantle's novels.  This is not one of his best.	2004-08-09
US	52956995	R2Y3P3ATOXZVOZ	0345402308	695206548	The Fourth Procedure: A Novel of Medical Suspense	Books	3	3	4	N	N	Oh! The Irony!	There is not much of a medical thriller here as the novel revolves around the pro-life - pro-choice debate, pitting Jack McCloed, a pro-choice Congressman, his live-in Significant Other, and surgeon Rachel Redpath against the new Chief Justice, Abner Titus and his pro-life allies against one another.  Where Pottinger excels here is toward the end when the parties are forced into a reversal of roles revealing the ironic potential in the lives and staked-out positions of these characters.  The author, an old &quot;Wahsington hand&quot; does not deal as well - I should say, as realistically - with the Washington scene, as witness the seeming lack of fall-out for Jack when his past misdeeds are revealed.  Nor do his characters seem to be real; had they been more realistic, or better drawn, they might have evoked a deeper caring from this reader.  Their childhood traumas seemed too coincidental, their stances on the single issue of the book too stark, especially the pro-life characters.  Pottinger might in fact be charged with writing a pro-choice tract here.  What is missing is the suspense angle as the outcome began to telegraph itself early on.  In fact, given the book's length (562 pp in paperback) one had to wonder if and when the thing would ever end.  But, it was, for all that, a fairly quick and easy read.  Good for planes and trains, but short on thoughtful introspection.	2004-04-06
US	52956995	RULITXUCGV4ZU	0812570901	924001301	The Fifth Horseman: A Novel of Biological Disaster (Michael Zammit)	Books	1	2	2	N	N	Unreadable	I'd bet that a lot of use read thrillers to pass the time on commutes and plane trips.  I took &quot;The Fifth Horseman&quot; on a plane to Chicago and the return to DC.  I managed, in about 4 hours in the aluminum cocoons to get through about 100 pages of prose ranging from turgid (&quot;Zammit threw himself on the couch&quot;) to silly (Saddam Hussein has only one son and his name is Anwar(?) ).  The characters are cartoonish at best - like something from a Saturday morning cartoon that you don't want your kids to watch. The characters from INERT, the acronym for International Environmental Response Team, are apparently supposed to be lovable and cute but are more annoying than anything.  The insectoids vs. the company cat, etc., was apparently an effort to show how creative the group was but undisciplined and thoughtless seem better adjectives.  I read the first 224 pages trying to get into this thing.  At the rate the INERT group was making progress in solving this disease riddle it would take forever for resolution.  It isn't very often that airport television seems more interesting than a thriller, but &quot;The Fifth Horseman&quot; fits that category.	2003-05-29
US	52956995	R3CHIRLL5XKPHC	0743436814	356979924	Remembrance Day	Books	4	8	8	N	N	Highly Recommendad!	This is one of those all too rare occurences: a truly great first novel in the thriller/suspense, etc. field. Here, Henry Porter proves that there is rich ore to be mined in the post-Cold War, post-Northern Ireland era. While the \\"Troubles\\" are an essetial part of the plot's background, the story is driven by a set of fascinating characters. In fact, Commander Kenneth Foyle of Scotland Yard's Anti-Terrorist Unit is a prime candidate for a series. Wathcing Foyle take hold of the case even against the wishes of his own service and the active enmity of the Security Service is an interesting story in itself as we watch the Security Service implode from its own intrigues and attempts to impede the main investigation into the bombing that killed Lindow's brother and implicated Lindow only because the authorities were protecting themselves from other revalations.<br />Kirsty Lainge of the Security Service is an especially interesting character, although in some ways it did seem obvious what stance she would ultimately take and what the outcome would be for her. The question of Mary's relationship to all this is answered early but the fate of one of the injured bystanders is an interesting twist at the end. In fact, the last line of the book was very appropriate.<br />I look forward to \\"A Spy's Life\\" with an assurance, from reading the reviews, that Henry Porter has not faded much, if at all, from his first effort. \\"Remembrance Day\\" is simply a great read and highly recommended.	2003-01-20
US	52956995	R34KLJQSP59TOG	0399149295	41838335	Blood Orchid (Holly Barker No. 3)	Books	2	5	6	N	N	Holly's beginning to slip a bit	I heartily agree with reviewer Jerry Bull who states that Holly Barker outshines Stone Barrington, another of Stuart Woods' series heroes.  But that isn't saying much these days.  Woods' first series was about the Lees of Delano, Georgia.  They went from flesh and blood to cardboard.  Stone Barrington has suffered a similar fate, although he was somewhat shallow to begin with.  And now the plucky Ms. Barker.  She's still the Chief of Police in Orchid Beach.  She's still quite good at it, and provides a well developed (no pun) heroine that the reader can easily relate to.  She's mature; no posturing to prove she's as good as the boys: its obvious she knows what she's doing.<br />Now for the bad news: pretty good plot, not so good execution.  I had the feeling that all of the bloated dialogue was there just to get the thing (the hardback) as close to 300 pages as possible. The utter politeness of all the conversations borders on silly, and one conversation Holly has with Ed Shine before he invites her to &quot;go to ground&quot; at one his guest cottages demonstrated stunningly poor judgement on Holly's part. It made me want to scream at her.  And, speaking of Stone Barrington, I fear that Blood Orchid's lengthy discussions of menus and wine lists means that the Orchid Beach series is headed down the same path.  On the upside is the fate bestowed on Harry Crisp.  He has taken a nosedive in this series and it was hard to tell if he was dumb as a box of rocks or just plain mean.  Woods may get some of the technical jargon wrong but his characterization of the FBI is right on the money.<br />Each of Mr. Wood's books for the last few years has ended with an author's note which many readers have found annoying and patronizing to his fans.  I agree.  With all the criticism that reviewers are spreading on these pages it might seem the better part of marketing judgement to dispense with the I-Am-Stuart- Woods-And-You-Are-Not piece and just find another way to deals with all those unwanted cards and letters.  The volume may fall on its own.	2002-12-22
US	52956995	R2LTQ64I0458K8	0451206711	471003961	Orchid Blues (Holly Barker)	Books	3	6	6	N	N	Still entertaining after all these years	Reviews of Stuart Woods' books seem to fall into three categories:  Those who love them, those who find them shallow, and those who pine for the Woods of old whose books were so full of suspense and intrigue with great plots and lots of imagination.  But not every book can be Chiefs (his first novel) or Imperfect Strangers (an early non-series novel).  But they are still fast easy reads, great for the DC Metro commute.<br />Holly Barker is back for a second time.  She's is still an appealing enough character and the story has some interesting moments.  There is little imagination to the plotting and its all fairly predictable.  Still, there are characters to like and root for, Holly, her father Ham, and her dog Daisy.  And beyond those who seem to wear a sign saying \\"I'm Evil: Hate Me\\" there are always one or two about whom we are not to sure.  The FBI Agent from the first Holly Barker novel, Harry Crisp, plays a real jerk, something of a comedown from the first book.  The idea of putting Ham up for this \\"job\\" with the bad guys, consdidering the stakes involved, is rather silly.  But as other reviewers have pointed out, Woods is still very good on the action scenes. <br />I wonder if other readers have noticed, as I did, Holly's strange reaction to Oxenhandler's death.  And how long did it take to figure out who was in the line at the bank with him?<br />True, Woods is no Hemmingway or Faulkner, as another reviewer pointed out.  Sad to say, he started out like one of them, but he's more a franchise now, as indicated in the author's note that is so annoying and which now appears at the end of each of his books.	2002-12-22
US	52956995	R28BBY8BAN01QY	0380978326	514211574	Aftermath: A Novel of Suspense	Books	4	13	14	N	N	A Very Human Story	Acting Detective Superintendent Alan Banks has the challenge of his career with the discovery of a serial killer.  It appears at first that the only thing that remains is to gather evidence and to determine if PC Janet Taylor used excessive force in subduing the apparent killer. Several difficult areas are explored: the serial murders around which the story is centered, together with child abuse, torture, domestic violence, and the excesive force question which might be worth a book on its own. Aftermath is as much the story of PC Taylor, Lucy Payne, and Maggie Forrest as it is of Banks. What happens to these three women is the &quot;aftermath&quot; of the title and stems from the abuse suffered years earlier by Lucy.  How Robinson handles the issues and their fates is the true indicator of his mastery of the police procedural.<br />Robinson does not ask the reader to suspend disbelief; his novels are firmly grounded in reality with believable, all-too-human characters and events which are, unfortunately, all to familiar to our world.  (Didn't we in my neck of the woods just go through the Sniper Case?) The impact Robinson's books have on the reader come from the way he handles these characters and events.  In the hands of another writer Banks' problems with his divorce from Sandra, his tenuous relationship with Annie Cabbot and the ambivilence he feels toward Jenny Fuller, not to mention his own professional stresses, would be a big bore.  Here each character is developed and displayed with mastery.  A growing mastery as Robinson has (to borrow from the editorial review) grown before the reader's eyes from the first Banks novel, Gallows View.<br />I disagree with those who find this book boring, although I did find a few pages with what seemed to be padding, as with Maggie and her shrink.  However, the other complaint, that Banks' personal life and relationships are irrelevant, misses the point: Banks the private man cannot be separated from Banks the investigator;these interpersonal relationships define him as much as his work defines him.  Altogether a rewarding read and I look forward to the next installment.	2002-11-08
US	52956995	R394S16GPAXTZ7	0449006220	46836228	The Procedure	Books	2	2	4	N	N	No Mystery Here	This is the latest and, one hopes, the last, of the \\"medical mysteries\\" featuring the handsome and brilliant Dr. Earl Garnet and his beautiful and brilliant wife, fellow physician, Janet.  Only here, the real hero(ine) is Janet.  She plays a supporting role in all these novels and supplies the common sense.  If only Garnet would try some.  This is nothing more than a dull police procedural wrapped in surgical greens.  Garnet is painted as a highly talented ER chief and is a quite believeable and effective character in that role.  But when there is murder and mayhem afoot, he goes into his orbit, trying to solve the case. In doing so, he keeps evidence and relevant facts to himself, lying to the police, and going off on his silly tangents.  The characters are lame, especially Buffalo P. D. Det. Riley who knows he's being lied to but seems to go along for the ride.  And the legal advice!  Puhleeeze!<br />What is really sad is that this lame story is wrapped around a central theme: hatred of HMOs.  I'm sure that most readers have doubts about HMOs, or worse, a personal story about how an HMO has denied a needed medical service.  The diatribe goes over the top - worse than Clement's others - and his argument is lost in all the histrionics.  Clement really has Garnet chewing the scenery in this one.<br />A book billed as a medical mystery should be just that: strange viruses running amok with the hero using her skill to find the villanous pathogens and scaring the daylights out of us while doing so.  A little science, please!	2002-11-03
US	52956995	R3KZE0R7SCBNG9	0446527246	104741909	Mirage	Books	2	2	2	N	N	A Big Disappointment	So far, Mirage has an average rating of four stars.  I must respectfully dissent: Mirage is a big disappointment, especially when Passman's first book, The Visionary, was so good.  The plot revolves an army experiment in mind control; when it is shut down many of those men involved in it have no place to go but into the shadow world of terrorism where their skills can find a market. One of the first victims is computer specialist John Bergman.  Here the story begins to weaken, as beyond Bergman the cast of characters is cartoonish, even silly - with one exception which I dare not reveal.  Between the interesting beginning and the non- surprise ending, the book careens from pillar to post with the good guys acting like Keystone Kops and the bad guys like the Three Stooges.  What is really scary is that the FBI field agents' relationship with Washington reads like the Congressional hearings we are witnessing now.<br />Jill Landis, the lead agent in the field on this case does show some strengths.  But like Bergman, who seems to wear a name tag that says &quot;Geek&quot;, she wears one saying &quot;Vulnerable&quot;.  One character worth watching is the mind-control specialist Landis consults.  Trying to figure him out is a useful distraction if you are determined to get through the book.  I should also mention that there are a couple of scenes of gratuitous violence which added nothing to the story but were a sledge hammer to a nail in trying to move the story along.<br />The mind control/terrorism plot with its Manchurian Candidate twist was a great idea.  Unfortunately it really doesn't go anywhere.  I'm willing to bet that Mr. Passman has some more good writing in him.  It just doesn't show in Mirage.	2002-09-26
US	52956995	R2ACS545L3MUO3	0446525804	472682750	Last Man Standing	Books	2	4	4	N	N	So many pages, so little time...	From all the reviews, and having read four of his previous books, I had expected much more from Mr. Baldacci and Last Man Standing.  Like the previous books there was a large cast, a complicated plot, generous body count and general mayhem in the Washington, D. C. - Northern Virginia area.  But each of the previous books had characters that one could pull for.  Not here.  Web London, F.B.I. agent and part of the Hostage Rescue Team is set up to take a fall.  He is a shallow, unlikeable man, full of histrionics and completely self-centered.  The ending will provide the explanation for that comment.  There are, among the multitudes, some interesting characters, but it is hard to really care about any of them except young Kevin.<br />The book is too long, padded with all the things you didn't buy the book to read about.  Now, I'm not going to holler and say that Baldacci has turned bad and that I'll never read another of his books; that would put me in Web London's league.  But I did find this outing to be so different from his earlier efforts that I hope it was just an abberation.  I just hope his next one is more like the earlier books;I need this sort of book to endure the Washington, D.C. Metro every day and I'm sure that Mr. Baldacci has more great books in him.<br />The problem with this book is that, while normally we get characters doing interesting things, a plot that moves more or less smoothly, heroes and heroines who push the limits, here the reader has trouble just figuring out where this thing is going and why.  Web London is a law unto himself, does what he wants and gets away with this somewhat childish behavior.  In fact, had someone else been on the case, followed the leads instead of running amok, the case could have been solved in 300 pages rather than the Tolstoyan 640 pages it took to get to the anti-cllimactic ending.  Cars and guns aplenty.  Not much else.	2002-09-21
US	52956995	R1BB8Z8WQ6KLDT	0553802674	474355895	No Good Deed	Books	4	4	4	N	N	A Gripping Tale	First a disclaimer:  My sister is Manda Scott's agent in the U.K. and she gave me a signed copy in June, 2001.  I had not heard of this author and it was not really my type of book - no spies - so I put it aside.  I finally read it last September while looking for an escape from the 9/11 saturation coverage.  Some escape!<br />This book takes hold from the first page and simply doesn't let go.  The opening scene with 9-year old Jamie Buchanan who has just watched his mother murdered and undercover Glasgow officer Orla McLeod begging him to untie her before the killers return is a classic.  <br />This is a tale of an undercover counter-narcotics operation gone bad.  Watch the characters; has there has been a leak?  Is there some souce of information that threatens Orla and Jamie even as they hide out with Orla's mother?  Orla's relationships with Jamie and the other characters is particularly well done, and Orla's mother is a great character in her own right.  In fact, Orla's and her mother's past - they have come to Scotland from Northern Ireland - is central to the surprise with respect to the two villans in the tale.  It fooled me and I thoroughly enjoyed it.<br />No Good Deed is about as good as it gets in the police procedural field.  I had a bit of trouble setting the scene in the beginning and had to re-read the first few pages when I was half way through the book.  Other than that, it is a fast-moving book, with characters that can be cheered or hissed as appropriate, a couple of twists in the plot and very enjoyable read.  I highly recommend it to any thriller/police procedural fan.	2002-08-19
US	52956995	R2JYW6HTV1QLKJ	0425166414	776785630	Bearing Secrets	Books	1	3	3	N	N	Barre can do better than this	After reading The Innocents, the first Wil Hardesty book, I looked forward to Bearing Secrets. Big disappointment!  The story begins with the apparent suicide of Max Pfeiffer, a '60s radical, and a call to Hardesty from Pfeiffer's daughter, Holly.  At that point the thing goes downhill rapidly.  The plot is not a bad idea.  Where Barre disappoints is, first, in the seemingly unending problems between Wil and his wife, Lisa.  One feels it is time for them to get on with their lives.  It is distracting after a time, and the reader must find it hard to identify with either of them, much less sympathize.<br />Second, the plot is risky.  I know I couldn't write it convincingly.  But Barre, making a half-hearted effort at some level of believability, fails miserably.  The characters are cartoonish, the story told in jerky movements so that we don't know where we are (geographically and chronologically)most of the time.  Keep an eye out for Monika and Behr.  How did Barre dream them up?<br />As for the next one in the series I just can't say.  I think I may have suffered enough with this overaged surfer dude and all his angst.  I realize that a fictional detective needs his/her conflicts and tensions but as much as I liked Wil (and Lisa) at the end of The Innocents, I couln't help thinking &quot;here we go again&quot; at the beginning of Bearing Secrets.<br />Avoid this one.	2002-02-18
US	52956995	R2NN1EUQBLCSHB	055380118X	773404487	The Advocate: A Novel of World War II	Books	2	6	7	N	N	Its a sleeper, alright!	In fact, it may well put you to sleep!  I agree with the S. Berner review and would add the narrator had a definite negative impact on the book.  While using a narrator may be a clever idea in some instances, here it detracts.  We had no idea who this narrator was until about a third of the way in.  The use of British idioms was annoying but finally made some sense when we find out the nationality of the narrator.  This is essentially a story about a non-story, that is, there is nothing to it.  It is really unfortunate for Mesce has written another one about Major Harry Voss, an interesting character, but Mesce fails to do anything with him.  Simply not worth the effort to read all the way through to the ho-hum conclusion.	2002-02-09
US	52956995	R2ZBFOWJVUFNSC	0812564618	264170645	Vulcan's Forge (Philip Mercer)	Books	2	1	2	N	N	Not bad for a start but...	this book needed an editor's attention.  In fact, in some places it is just plain sloppy.<br />That said, on to the story:  great plot for this kind of book.  In fact, Hawaii did have a secession movement some years ago, and who knows what a nuclear device could do if detonated near an emerging undersea volcano.  Gotta give DuBrul at least two stars for thinking up the plot and developing a few interesting characters.  And, as we say when reviewing what is essentially a commuter book, this is not the Higher Criticism.  Disbelief is suspended and the reader gets a good ride.  Unfortunately all those printing and syntax errors are just a few too many speedbumps along the way.	2002-01-22
US	52956995	R1BJOPHK2TGYDZ	0515131105	965921530	A Gathering of Spies	Books	1	2	5	N	N	One star is a gift	Having read many of the other reviews of this World War II era epic, I seem to be in a distinct minority.  Lets start this review with two premises: the reader must be willing to suspend disbelief and (for historical novels) the writer must be faithful to the era.  I had no trouble with the plot: an attractive woman is planted as a sleeper in the U.S. by the Nazis in 1932, a year before they or anyone elso thought they'd come to power in Berlin.  She manages to get to Los Alamos and then, secrets in hand, to escape to England.  I won't go any further than that because there may be someone elso interested in reading this thing (you can have my copy!).<br />It is clear that the author has no feel for the era he is writing about.  I'm not old enough to remember the War, but I have studied it for years.  Altman makes a mockery of both American and British intelligence (both the services and the state of mind) and stretches the fabric of history to the breaking point so his heroine can accomplish deeds that would be remarkable in any age.  The writing isn't that bad. But it reads like a bad parody on spies and counter spies during the war.  A really bad parody. Please, Amazon, relent and allow us to award zero stars in these moments of high dudgeon!  If you see this book on the shelf, avert your eyes and run for it.	2001-10-26
US	52956995	R3GQG7CZW3P8EC	0312965478	179551311	Diamond Head (John Caine Mysteries)	Books	4	4	5	N	N	At last! A new hero.	It seems that many thriller readers are looking for a new hero to replace Travis McGee.  I never read the McGee novels, but I have been looking for a new series hero and I think I've found the right one.  It isn't Lee Child's Jack Reacher, although Reacher is pretty good.  It certainly isn't Michael Stone's Streeter, a failed effort at noir/pulp fiction.  It is Charles Knief's John Caine. Now, this book does have a couple of flaws but, hey!  This ain't higher criticism here. Based on the reviews I've seen, we are all looking for a series character we wouldn't mind having a beer (Chardonnay for Caine, thank you very much) with, someone whose deeds are noble if messy, someone to entertain and maybe feed our fantasies.<br />John Caine is such a man and Diamond Head is such a book.  The writing is good, the characters are fun and believeable and the plot is reasonable.  Caine is a loner, not particularly by choice.  He has suffered one great loss and will suffer another one before this one is over.  The way he deals with other people who come into his life is of greater interest that his feats of derring-do and adds a human dimension that is so lacking in other hero types.  I thought the ending was quite good.  Not all happy, but no loose ends - except maybe Caine himself.  An action hero has to have conflict, generally with the authorities.  The laundry list of charges that were almost brought against him seemed a silly way of making the conflict, but at least someone had read the law of piracy and no charges were brought.  Piracy! There was real action on the seas, lots of fun, some suspense, bits of nonsense, some sadness.  In short, enough to make you wish you were running with Caine than riding the Metro.  Enjoy!	2001-07-17
US	52956995	R2JWBUCJP45XSI	0061030457	321390320	The Forbidden Zone	Books	3	5	6	N	N	Great tale but not well told	This is a great story; the plot line could have been trite but was, instead, very imaginative.  I love intrigue built around great characters.  Where the author failed here was in adding too much filler; its just too long.  The extraneous parts of the story line (I won't describe anything that could give the story away) are unnecessary distractions.  The main characters are another problem:  Dr. Katherine Sears has her good moments, but sometimes she's just plain silly.  And incredibly lucky.  Victor Perov is not bad; he's a believable, sympathetic character. There are some great supporting characters:Sergei the cab driver,   although how a Moscow cab driver has both an apartment and a country dacha in the mid-80s is never explained. Then there's Terasov the KGB man. But continuity is a problem.  In one paragraph, a prisoner is fiddling with the buttons of his prison uniform.  In the next paragraph the uniform has become pajamas.  And who lives with whom?  One minute Oksana moves out of Victor's apartment.  The next minute she's back.  I had the feeling that the book was written in fits and starts and the author simply forgot what he had written before.<br />But as I said, it was a great plot, and it has plenty of twists and turns.  I agree, for the most part, with another reviewer who said that the action was not improbable.  Some editing would have made this a five-star book.  And if Mr. Hetzer should write another book I'll probably read it, too.	2001-05-22
US	52956995	R2XH5SBE8GEB4T	0380730073	218305565	Abel Baker Charley	Books	4	1	1	N	N	An early Maxim; a must-have for thriller lovers	The cover of the original paperback (published in 1983) asks the question, &quot;who is Able Baker Charley and why should we fear him/it?&quot;  Well put.  Jared Baker is an average guy until his wife is killed.  He loses control and is himself arrested and becomes a fugitive. Shadowy behaviorist Marcus Sonnenberg &quot;rescues&quot; Baker and makes him a subject of study.  But Baker wants none of it.  He just wants to be re-united with his daughter and get on with his life.  Not so simple in the hands of John Maxim.  The characters are well developed and for the most part quite sympathetic.  Imagine a government agent that is actually likeable.  Learning who/what is Abel Baker Charley takes the reader into the life of Tanner Burke, a budding film star; Connor Harrigan, a government operative out to find Baker and then to protect him, and several others representing various shades of evil (or good).  The government wants Baker to study him, to get at Sonnenberg's other subjects, and to settle a score between the bad guy Peck and Sonnenberg.  In the ensuing shoot-outs, and with Maxim's usual healthy body count, the reader learns about Abel and Charley and how they relate to Baker as well as Burke and his daughter.  This is Maxim on two levels: the mind games not unlike Platforms (one of his best novels) and the Bannerman series with all the thrills that he produces so well.  I had to knock off one star because of a monologue of Sonnenberg's that went on too long and the final shoot out that got overly confusing.  At the same time each of these helped to define the characters, both the good guys and the bad.  You'll be pulling for Baker - whoever he may be - all the way through a quick read.  A must have for Maxim fans.	2001-04-24
US	52956995	R2L23C7LXUKG35	0441019722	114074827	American Reich	Books	1	3	6	N	N	This title is out of print and should stay that way.	I love books of political intrigue and I am more than willing to suspend disbelief so that I can enjoy the ride.  But Mr. Muir is asking too much of the reader.  First of all, the title may be a bit misleading.  It is not an alternate WW2 history where the bad guys won. It is contemporary - sometime after the Reagan Presidency - and involves a liberal president, his ultra-right wing vice president (what a ticket that must have been)  and a planned coup engineered by high government officials and a coalition of the right - the militias, the Klan, and American Nazis.  The story line has possibilities, but not in the hands of this author.  He has peopled his book with some very thin characters: Kirk Stewart, a N.Y. Time reporter, Shira Bernstein, a rather head-strong freelance writer, Moti Barak, a KGB &quot;sleeper&quot;, and Carlie Chavez, a network TV newsreader.  Two of them have tragic endings, but only one is really heroic.  Kirk Stewart is about as shallow as they come and is really unlikeable; and Carlie isn't much better. Moti Barak is somewhat likeable but unlikely as a character. Now the hard parts:  Why did Muir make the hotel in Washington 30 stories tall?  Has Muir ever visited D.C.?  Is it likely that a Soviet ambassador in the mid-80s would wander out to a pay phone to take a call from a sleeper?  Ambassadors simply do not do streetwork. Where is the KGB contingent?  The antics of the FBI further stretch credulity. But the real problem, to me, at least, is the dialogue.  So many sophmoric monologues, so many pretentious words put in the mouths of the unlikely.  We usually read these things to see how they  come out, how the loose ends will be tied up.  Here, though, I doubt if anyone really cares what happens to these characters. I read it through simply because it was amusing.  Let us hope that this book is never re-printed.  I'll feel guilty trading it at a used book store.	2001-04-11
US	52956995	R3HV0RYEW00M6O	0061013439	995699181	The Run	Books	2	3	3	N	N	Way below par for Woods	Stuart Woods introduced us to the Lee family of Delano, GA in his first book, Chiefs.  Will Lee, hero of The Run is the third generation of the Lee family, and as anyone who has followed Will in several of Wood's books knows, was bound for the White House some day.  There is such an enormous contrast between Chiefs, the first book, and The Run, the latest.  Chiefs was more than a novel.  It was a great piece of &quot;southern literature&quot; with full blown characters, realism in the background, and the full range of life's issues to confront.  But in The Run, Woods has done with Will Lee what Jack Clancy did with Jack Ryan, Clancy's once appealing hero.  Lee is now a cardboard cutout, a caricature of the perfect liberal politician, as Jack Ryan is the perfect conservative.  Like Clancy, and having so hollowed out his hero, Woods needs to buttress his candidate, Lee, by demonizing the other side to the point, in both cases, of silliness.  This is the major detraction of the book. <br />While the characterizations are not much more than cliches, the plot background is not so bad and makes for an interesting read. Woods' background in journalism serves him well here.  The outcome of the fictional election is eerily close to that of the teal one which took place months after the book came out.  That's what provides the two stars in my rating.  If the candidates had been more life-like, and the background a bit less melodramatic, it would have been a much better read.<br />Woods' books are still a &quot;must have&quot; for me, but I'll stick to the two latest Stone Barrington novels for now.	2001-03-08
US	52956995	R1O1EX4P4OTUZ9	0425176312	476733020	In the Hour Before Midnight	Books	5	0	0	N	N	No one does it better!	Higgins fans rejoice! A number of his older books are being re-printed.  Although In the Hour Before Midnight was first published in 1969, like most of Higgins' work it has certainly aged well.  His characters are well crafted and his plots and story lines have never been tied up with the Us versus KGB plots that now seem so out of date.  <br />Stacey Wyatt is a typical Higgins creation. Born into a life of privilege, raised by a Sicilian capo, he escapes into a world of the mercenary and finally learns, almost too late, where his true loyalties should lie.  Is Sean Burke really the true friend, or an opportunist who could shed Wyatt like an old shirt?  What about Joanna, or Rose, or all the others. Is Hoffer a man of his word?  Can Vito be trusted?  You'll enjoy finding the answers.<br />Of Higgins' 57 titles, I have been able to find and read 53 of them. Not a bad book in the bunch and I forgive him the repetition of plots. The thing is, these books are just plain fun to read.  So enjoy! And don't forget to thank the re-print people.	2000-10-18
US	52956995	R37UDIUX3Q6XAP	0425176312	476733020	In the Hour Before Midnight	Books	5	33	33	N	N	No one does it better!	Higgins fans rejoice! A number of his older books are being re-printe.  Although In the Hour Before Midnight was first published in 1969 it has aged quite well.  His characters are well crafted and his plots and story lines have never been tied up with the Us versus KGB plots that now seem so out of date.  <br />Stacey Wyatt is a typical Higgins creation. Born into a life of privilege, raised by a Sicilian capo, he escapes into a world of the mercenary and finally learns, almost too late, where his true loyalties should lie.  Is Sean Burke really the true friend, or an opportunist who could shed Wyatt like an old shirt?  What about Joanna, or Rose, or all the others. Is Hoffer a man of his word?  Can Vito be trusted?  You'll enjoy finding the answers.<br />Of Higgins' 57 titles, I have been able to find and read 53 of them. Not a bad book in the bunch and I forgive him the repetition of plots. The thing is, these books are just plain fun to read.  So enjoy! And don't forget to thank the re-print people.	2000-10-18
US	52956995	RXSVAVULSXC2F	0874850851	337503545	Forced into Glory: Abraham Lincoln's White Dream	Books	2	91	155	N	N	A book with unsupported conclusions	James McPhereson's short comment tells the story ofthis book. &quot;Revisionist&quot; history has gotten a &quot;bad rap&quot; primarily because it is so often poorly done.  New approaches to old historical issues are both valuable and healthy.  But how can one take seriously an effort that is so lacking in good documentation and analysis?<br />In this case, Bennett seems to be acting out a personal agenda.  I recall comments in Ken Burns' PBS documentary on the Civil War to the same effect:  Lincoln does not deserve the title &quot;Great Emancipator&quot; because he did not free the slaves.  But without him and his determination to save the Union, what would have been the fate of those slaves?  The frequently overlooked reality is that Lincoln had no authority to emancipate slaves in territory where the Constitution was in effect; thus, the Emancipation Proclamation could have authority, if any, only in those areas under rebel control.  One reader has drawn the conclusion that if the Union had been severed that the slaves could have escaped across what would then have been an international boundry. Of course slaves had been escaping the South and slavery for years through the Underground Railway.  But to suggest that a southern slave, taken into Indiana would have thus gained freedom has not read the Supreme Court's 1857 decision in the Dred Scott case.  On the other hand, if the Confederacy had won the war, international law and treaty rights would have governed the fate of a visiting slave, not Indiana state law.<br />Was Lincoln a racist and thus to be stripped of his mantle of greatness?  Lincoln was, in his time, quite &quot;liberal&quot; on the issue, although he wasnot in strictest terms, an abolitionist.  Certainly his stance might well be termed racist in 2000.  But he was ahead of his time on the issue in the 1850s and 1860s.  Those who seek to deprecate his actions freuently ignore his stand on the Kansas-Nebraska issue in the mid-1850s and the &quot;House Divided&quot; speech and the positions he took during the debates with Douglas.  While he did look up to Henry Clay, a slaveholder, as his political model, it is qauite a leap to suggest that as proof that he was a racist.<br />One of the other reviews trouble me because it appears that some Americans take their  understanding of the Civil War from narrow books such as Bennetts.  There are many better and more objective books on the war and on Lincoln and emancipation.  The reader should use some discretion: If an understanding of the Civil War era and Lincoln's part in it is to be achieved, I would suggest that Bennett is not going to be a fruitful source.<br />The second star is for the effort and not for the merits of the book.  The reader would have been better served if the author had simply stated that the conclusions were based on his opinion rather than to try to shroud ill-considered analyses and special pleading in dubious references.	2000-10-09
US	52956995	R500ROC2G6KM	0471122521	640660	Feuding Allies: The Private Wars of the High Command	Books	1	9	13	N	N	A Big Disappointment	Given the book's title, Feuding Allies: The Private Wars of the High  Command, the reader would naturally expect to read of the &quot;little  wars&quot; inside the Big One, pitting Eisenhower against Montgomery,  Marshall against Brooke, King against the Navy and DeGaulle against  everyone.  Well, there is a little of that, but no more than in any other  general history of the war.  No in- depth coverage, no analysis of the  causes of the various feuds (mostly ego, one might suppose) and most  importantly, no analysis of the results of these feuds.  Was strategy  impacted?  What would have been the outcome if, for example, Churchill had  won his point and sent the Allies into the Balkans, or if MacArthur had run  the Pacific War with his own strategy? <br />This is a disappointing because  these colorful and all-important characters have never been subjected to a  thorough study of their interactions with each other and the results of  their individual characteristics on the decisions that governed the conduct  of the war. They ran something quite unique in world military history: a  successful coalition against a common enemy.  What were they thinking?  How  did they finally manage to compromise, if at all, and get the war fought?  What we get from Breuer is a narrative of the war told around the petty  squabbles which marred much of the war's decision making processes. The  narrative has no real depth and provides no new information or  interpretation.  There are, in fact, some troubling omissions within this work.  Minor points?  Perhaps. But lapses like these put the rest of  material in question.	2000-09-17
US	52956995	R4VUSGPRO5YEW	0312186541	127025976	Mind/Reader	Books	4	0	0	N	N	A Most Complicated Police Procedural	Brian Freemantle's Charlie Muffin books are always a fun read.  When he  ventures beyond, he produces great stuff, but each one can take a bit of  patience to get into.  Freemantle does not write &quot;page turners&quot;  in the usual sense of the mystry/thriller genre.  An exception was In the  Name of a Killer, the first Freemantle I read.  Mind/Reader is probably the  hardest of the lot to read.  As the other reviewers have complained, it  does take a while to get into, and there are, frankly, too many sub-plots  and other complications.  And, I must admit, Freemantle is no LeCarre.   That aside, his books are always good reads, even if the pacing varies.  I  gave this one four stars because I enjoy a complicated plot once in a  while, but couldn't give five stars for the simple reason that it moves  more slowly than I would like.  Great characters, as usual for Freemantle.  But weaker dialogue and slow pacing are the weak spots.  But we Freemantle  fans can excuse one less than perfect read.  But only one, because we are a  fickle bunch.	2000-09-12
US	52956995	R3KWMUIRJFDLQ6	0312964994	785099468	The Glory River (Underhill)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	A Familiar Tale for Cameron Judd Readers	While Glory River is strikingly similar to his 1996 publication, Passage  to Natchez, this is still a page turner.  Mr. Judd seems to have a knack  for the period (early 1800s) and brings to life an exciting time in  American History, with all the color, vilence joy and tragedy of the real  thing. In fact, the book is faithful to the history of the Natchez Trace  and the surrounding areas. I gave four stars rather than five because the  characters, their surroundings, the plot line, etc., do seem in many  respects to be duplicates of those in Passage.  But it is a great yarn and  I recommend it to lovers of historical fiction. I think the other Underhill  novels might be a good bet as well. After all, if Jack Higgins can re-work  old plots, why not Mr. Judd?	2000-08-11
US	52956995	R2KWN2P42VDG4O	0786401419	533226443	No Choice but War: The United States Embargo Against Japan and the Eruption of War in the Pacific	Books	1	14	22	N	N	A Disappointing Effort on an Important Historical Era	The premise of Roland Worth's study of the economic measures taken against the Japanese in 1940-41, is that the freezing of Japanese assets in July, 1941 resulted in the attack on Pearl Harbor.  The asset freeze, which  effectively cut Japan off from American markets for oil, metals and cotton,  was a tough measure taken in response to Japanese agression in Asia and her  embrace of Germany and Italy in the Tripartite (Axis) Pact at a time when  the United States was preoccupied with the war in Europe and aid to  Britain.  Mr. Worth concludes that Japan was thus placed in a desperate  economic position and left with no choice but to go to war with the United  States.<br />The author's conclusions are not based on sound evidence. He  relies heavily on contemporary newspaper accounts and the Congressional  hearings on the Pearl Harbor attack.  Missing is a discussion of the impact  on Japan's war economy in contrast to the civilian.  Important events such  as the planning for the Pearl Harbor attack, in progress for months prior  to the freeze, and Japan's war aims embodied in the &quot;Great East Asia  Co-Prosperity Sphere&quot; are ignored.  A more detailed analysis of the  August, 1941 Imperial Conference, which made the decision for war, might  have revealed important facts having a bearing on the beginning of the  war.<br />Instead, Mr. Worth confers victim status on Japan. For example, he  chides the United States for its support of the British Empire and wonders  why we opposed Japan's acquisition of its own.  He suggests that since  France acquired Indochina by conquest, why is it so different for Japan to  take Indochina from the French by coercion?  He claims an unfair burden of  the freeze and embargo fell on innocent Japanese civilians who lost jobs in  the silk industry.  The equally innocent civilians of Nanking or Shanghai  would probably not agree.<br />The U.S. government decided that appeasement  was not working and decided on a new course by which itwas hoped that  Japan would have to forego its aggressive behavior for lack of oil and  scrap metals.  It was a calcualted risk, but one that had to be taken when  the Japanese began to move into areas that threatened American trade  (rubber and tin)as well as the Phillipines.  Surely, Japan knew the risk  that it was taking and that the U.S. might tire of providing essential war  materials to them.  Mr. Worth has chosen to ignore these factors, and the  book suffers greatly as a result. Any serious student of the immediate  pre-war period can profitably pass ou the last chapter,  &quot;Conclusions&quot; which contain some alternate history.	2000-06-09
US	52956995	R1M1OIREFC3ZR7	0807123498	873562405	The Politics of Command: Factions and Ideas in Confederate Strategy	Books	5	2	2	N	N	When Politics Overtakes Strategy	One of the most fascinating aspects of the Civil War is the way in which strategy was determined not so much by military necessity as by the interplay of politics and personalities.  While this is true of the Union,  it seems to be more so of the South.  In this slim volume, the authors take  the reader through a study of the prevailing strategic thought  (Napoleonic/Jominian) and then discuss how this thinking was applied by the  major Southern Commanders.  Their conclusions: Lee contributed little to  the overall strategic thinking of the South; the commanders in the Western  theater (Bragg, A.S. Johnston, Joseph Johnston, Beauregard, et al.) may  have had a greater conception of the South's stategic requirements; and,  Jefferson Davis was caught between the two.  The result? Neither Virginia  nor the Western theaters got the military treatment that was required for  successful war.<br />Naturally, it is easy to oversimplify these conditions.   Yet, the authors demonstrate that Lee, concentrating on the Virginia front,  seemed unaware of the Western theater, resisted efforts to strengthen the  West through transfers from the Army of Northern Virginia, and continually  requested that the Western theater support his operations with either  movements of their own or transfers of troops to Virginia.  This criticism  of Lee is always a touchy issue (see, Joseph Harsh, Confederate Tide Rising  for a contrary position).To his credit, Davis resisted all of these  requests and, on one occasion, overruled Lee to have Longstreet's corps  sent to the West prior to the late 1863 battle of Chicamauga.<br />Davis, a  Westerner himself (Mississippi) faced a formidible group in what the  authors call  the Western Concentration Bloc, a group united by family or  geographical ties and a mutual hatred of Bragg.  Among them, Connelly and  Jones seem to think of P.G.T. Beauregard as the best of the strategic  thinkers.  Davis himself added to his own problems with the departmental  system, a possibly unnecessary complication added to already complicated  command problems.<br />The authors, having emphasized strategic thought in  Chapter 1, do not demonstrate how those strategic theories were applied by  the Southerners.  Perhaps this is because these theories, in the purest  sense, were never applied, except in the desire to concentrate forces,  which may in fact have been a function more of theater jealousy rather than  application of Jominian doctrine.  The student of strategy, academic or  armchair, might find a better discussion of this topic in Jones' Civil War  Command and Strategy (1992). Even so, this is a well-written study with  valuable insights, and certainly rates 5 stars.	2000-04-27
US	52956995	R3RIO8W7VHQ3J3	0807123498	873562405	The Politics of Command: Factions and Ideas in Confederate Strategy	Books	5	9	9	N	N	When Politics Overtakes Strategy	One of the most fascinating aspects of the Civil War is the way in which  strategy was determined not so much by military necessity as by the  interplay of politics and personalities.  While this is true of the Union,  it seems to be more so of the South.  In this slim volume, the authors take  the reader through a study of the prevailing strategic thought  (Napoleonic/Jominian) and then discuss how this thinking was applied by the  major Southern Commanders.  Their conclusions: Lee contributed little to  the overall strategic thinking of the South; the commanders in the Western  theater (Bragg, A.S. Johnston, Joseph Johnston, Beauregard, et al.) may  have had a greater conception of the South's stategic requirements; and,  Jefferson Davis was caught between the two.  The result? Neither Virginia  nor the Western theaters got the military treatment that was required for  successful war.<br />Naturally, it is easy to oversimplify these conditions.   Yet, the authors demonstrate that Lee, concentrating on the Virginia front,  seemed unaware of the Western theater, resisted efforts to strengthen the  West through transfers from the Army of Northern Virginia, and continually  requested that the Western theater support his operations with either  movements of their own or transfers of troops to Virginia.  This criticism  of Lee is always a touchy issue (see, Joseph Harsh, Confederate Tide Rising  for a contrary position).To his credit, Davis resisted all of these  requests and, on one occasion, overruled Lee to have Longstreet's corps  sent to the West prior to the late 1863 battle of Chicamauga.<br />Davis, a  Westerner himself (Mississippi) faced a formidible group in what the  authors call  the Western Concentration Bloc, a group united by family or  geographical ties and a mutual hatred of Bragg.  Among them, Connelly and  Jones seem to think of P.G.T. Beauregard as the best of the strategic  thinkers.  Davis himself added to his own problems with the departmental  system, a possibly unnecessary complication added to already complicated  command problems.<br />The authors, having emphasized strategic thought in  Chapter 1, do not demonstrate how those strategic theories were applied by  the Southerners.  Perhaps this is because these theories, in the purest  sense, were never applied, except in the desire to concentrate forces,  which may in fact have been a function more of theater jealousy rather than  application of Jominian doctrine.  The student of strategy, academic or  armchair, might find a better discussion of this topic in Jones' Civil War  Command and Strategy (1992). Even so, this is a well-written study with  valuable insights, and certianly rates 5 stars.	2000-04-26
US	52956995	R2OJUN27ITUOJF	0679437053	944565153	The Gun Runner's Daughter: A Novel	Books	2	2	4	N	N	Slow moving; littered with cardboard characters	This book was a major disappointment but,fortunately, I got it from the library so I only lost a little time.  The characters were without  dimension, shallow and not the sort one could identify with. I finally got  to the point where I could not put up with these people at the snail's pace  of the plot.  Maybe I gave up too soon; maybe not.	1999-10-29
