US	52958127	R1HTJN8N24HE9Y	0515133876	449119181	Narcissus in Chains (Anita Blake, Vampire Hunter, Book 10)	Books	3	2	2	N	N	Can you blame Ms Hamilton for leaving her rut?	And focussing on another form of rutting, so to speak? My sense of this book is that the first three quarters of it consist of a major character development, as Anita starts to explore her supernatural powers, and the implications that they hold for her relations with other people. The standard Anita Blake format used to be your basic murder story, with supernatural icing. This book is going much more towards the alternate history/fantasy direction, with the last quarter of the book containing the standard murder investigation/banter with the cops that we have come to know and love.<br />So the usual stuff is all there, but you just have to wade through a lot of werecreature politics, and explorations of new supernatural power before you get to the standard formula of Anita getting called in to help on a murder case, coming across a new supernatural being, solving the case, almost getting killed, agonising about her love live, etc. <br />So the reason why fans of the earlier stuff don't like this book is that it departs from formula. I guess that the reason is that the author wanted to develop the character and core ideas a little more, possibly in the teeth of significant opposition from her editor. But the bottom line is that these are Ms Hamilton's characters, and it's up to her what she does with them, but then again, it's up to us whether we like the departure from the old rut. Judging by reviews of the new Anita Blake mystery, this new departure is here to stay - I'm not sure that I will be following the novels in this new direction, but just because they are changed, does not make them bad.	2003-07-02
US	52958127	R303TREKINT8ZA	0743444159	22534204	Salamander	Books	4	9	9	N	N	Enough imagination for a much bigger book	The book opens during the siege of Quebec in 1759, just before the town is about to be taken by the British. A French count meets a beautiful girl in a bombed out bookshop, and she tells him the story of one of the books in the shop...<br />The rest of the book is the story of Nicholas Flood, who is brought from London to the Balkans by an eccentric Count, who wants him to create books that will fit in with his castle. The castle is designed so that all of the rooms are in perpetual motion, moving like a giant clockwork toy. Flood's first commission is to make a book without end. However, he falls in love with the Count's daughter, and when they are discovered, Flood is imprisoned, and the daughter is banished.<br />Giving away more would spoil the surprises in the plot, which not surprisingly, is driven by Flood's desire to find the Count's daughter once more, despite the obstacles that are put in his way. In the process of doing this, he creates another magical book. <br />This is a historical novel that will appeal to you if you liked &quot;Perfume&quot;, &quot;The Name of the Rose&quot; &quot;An Instance of the Fingerpost&quot; or the Thomas Pargeter novels, or &quot;A Case of Curiosities&quot;. The only thing that stops it getting five stars is that I felt it pulled its punches a bit - there are enough materials in here for a much bigger novel, and once you are immersed in the world that Wharton creates, you don't want to leave. If every character's backstory was described as lovingly as the French aristocrat in the first chapter, there would have been a lot more to the book, and I would have enjoyed it even more. <br />I felt that once Wharton had created so many interesting characters and situations, he would do a lot more with them, especially as he sends them all over the world (Venice, London, China). Having said that, other readers may prefer the fact that the novel is not that long, and the story is certainly satisfying. No loose ends or anything like that.	2003-07-02
US	52958127	R1UF776RPNASR9	0385318049	419693603	A Trip to the Stars	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Perfect magical realism	I like to think that this is the novel that Joseph Cornell would have written, if he had been inclined towards literature. The two threads of the novel are a coming of age novel and a love story, with the protagonists of each thread separated at the beginning, and just missing each other throughout the story. <br />Some of the other reviewers have covered the story pretty well, but it's hard to do it justice, because it meanders through so many pleasing substories, all on themes related to the stars, and how they guide us. And there's a happy ending!	2003-03-10
US	52958127	R1BLILLBO6CB19	0393051242	861144841	Globalization and Its Discontents	Books	5	123	131	N	N	Highly readable critique of the Washington consensus	I have worked for both development banks and for Wall Street, and have been heavily involved in Russia for the last ten years, and a more than interested observer in the financial crises of the emerging markets since 1991. I also have a decree in economics. I haven't read much economics since I left university, and the first think I want to point out is that this book is highly readable if you have a little economics knowledge, and has rekindled my interest in the subject. I read it on the beach, and at no point does it drag.<br />I think that there are two main points that Stiglitz makes. The first is that standard IMF policy has tended to approach countries in financial crises with the same rather crude economics as that used on Wall Street, which leads them to think like bank managers rather than economists. If you force a country with a fiscal deficit to reduce government spending, then this will reduce aggregate demand, which will reduce government income, and make the deficit worse, inflicting more pain on the population. The reason that the IMF does this, is that it is meant to restore confidence in the markets, but once a crisis starts, foreign investors tend to bail out anyway, so all it buys you is breathing space. You should accept that the foreign investors are gone, and focus on growth. <br />The other thing that I got from the book is the hypocrisy of the US administration, which forced policies on emerging markets, which it would not itself accept. In fact, the IMF more or less took instructions from the US Treasury during the 1990s, and certainly my sense at the time was that the actual IMF staffers were very frustrated at the policies that the US government forced them to follow. The point though, is that while the US government was battling the balanced budget amendment at home, on the reasonable grounds that it limited their freedom to manage demand, they were essentially forcing a balanced budget amendment on the emerging markets via IMF conditionalities. I remember attending a Paris Club meeting, where the Fund said that they were aware that budget deficits could be beneficial - this was never reflected in the lending policies that the Treasury forced on them. Other examples are forcing central banks to focus only on inflation, and forcing emerging markets to open their markets, while protecting US farmers from imports.<br />The above is an oversimplification of the whole book, and others may get a lot more on other subjects, such as the political process of crisis management, and the specifics of the East Asian economies, which are less of a priority for me. When you are a specialist in a subject, you always find that non-specialist books tend to be wrong about your own subject. I certainly found plenty to disagree with in the sections on Russia, which is my special subject. However, the arguments were cogent (he is a Nobel prize winner, after all) and I found myself looking at my own subject in a new way, and it was interesting to read a broad brush view, which helped me to ignore the trees, and look at the wood.<br />I'm reading Skidelsky's biography of Keynes, and to some extent, Stiglitz's book reads like WWJMKD (What would John Maynard Keynes do?). What this means is that Stiglitz is a virtuoso economist, and this is a set of well-known events, reinterpreted by someone who is really good at it. <br />One criticism of the book is that I would have liked to have seen more raw data to support Stiglitz's arguments - he tends to just refer to studies supporting his argument, without showing as much data as I would have liked, but there is a decent bibliography. Another criticism is the veiled suggestion that Rubin (US Treasury secretary), Fischer (deputy head of IMF) and Summers (deputy Treasury secretary) were merely serving their masters in Wall Street, and were subsequently rewarded. This is a little ignoble, as these people were following their convictions, however wrong, and the political climate atthe time supported them.  But these criticisms should not detract from a really excellent book of popular economics.	2002-10-08
US	52958127	R1ZFHK53XO442R	0345409671	983362906	Memnoch the Devil (Vampire Chronicles)	Books	3	2	2	N	N	Different from the rest of the series	I just re-read the Vampire Chronicles series, and it really struck me how much this differs from the others. The standard formula is for the novel to be told in the first person by one of the vampires, who tells their story. Normally most of the story is in one historical period, and the attraction is Rice's ability to give an idea of how people lived in Byzantine Antioch, or Renaissance Venice, or pre-revolutionary France. You don't get that in this book. <br />Or rather you do but you get the tale of Memnoch the Devil, and it's not set on earth, but in heaven. This makes it very different from the other stories, because there is no way that Memnoch is recognizable as a human being, and that is the other strength of Rice's books. She shows the vampires as real people, reacting to real situations.<br />The basic story starts off with Lestat stalking a victim, who is particularly evil, so Lestat draws out the experience by stalking him over a long period, like a cat watching a mouse. He also stalks the victim's daughter, who is an evangelist. After killing the victim, he has a conversation with the victim's ghost, who asks him to look after the daughter. Lestat agrees, and then meets Memnoch, who is the Devil, and wants Lestat to work for him. First the Devil has to persuade Lestat how it is that he and God are not enemies, and to do this, he tells his story.<br />Most of the book is Memnoch's story, and how and why he fell from heaven, and a lot of it is religious discussion. Essentially, it gives a complete theological underpinning for the Vampire chronicles - how the existence of God can be reconciled with the existence of vampires, and vice versa. Rice lays it out in full, and the problem is that there is nothing sensual about theology, and sensuality is one of the main attractions of Rice's books. <br />Storywise, this book does advance the Lestat story, but I do not think that it is essential to read it, to get a full understanding of the Vampire Chronicles. However, it is important in terms of understanding the world that Rice is trying to create, and in terms of understanding Lestat's character development. But if it's sensuality that you're after, you won't find it here.	2002-04-25
US	52958127	R14H1ISKOCNG82	0312278152	588523173	The Prince of Princes: The Life of Potemkin	Books	5	27	30	N	N	Revises the standard view on Potemkin	If all you knew about Potemkin was the fact that he built fake villages for Catherine the Great, then this book will tell you a lot more. In fact, the author goes into the origin of that particular myth, and shows it to be false, and propagated by enemies of Potemkin, and repeated, uncritically, by subsequent historians.<br />There is no question that Sebag-Montefiore is biassed in favor of his hero - this is not an objective biography, and doesn't try to be, or claim to be so. Some people might think that the author of a historical biography should be an invisible, impartial figure, but you don't get that with this book. You hear a lot about the author's travels to research his subject, which contrasts with the dry style of more &quot;serious&quot; historians, who never leave the library. Any author of a biography is likely to be biassed, so why not be upfront about it?<br />This is a very readable book - there are lots of anecdotes, and a lot of quotes directly from the correspondance between Potemkin and Catherine. The book makes a direct claim that the two were married, in a secret ceremony, and even describes the ceremony, even though the author cheerfully admits the lack of evidence for this. <br />The really good thing about this book is that most of it draws on primary sources, many of which have not been available before, and the author brings these, and their authors to life. This means that it is a ground-breaking historical account, and popular history at the same time. Like all good biographies, it teaches you a lot about the historical context, so you will learn a lot about how Catherine was able to defeat the Turks, and significantly expand the size of the Russian empire. Seeing Catherine through the eyes of her lover's biographer is a new slant on a subject who has had a lot written about her.<br />I really enjoyed this book. It's popular history that is both historical (in terms of its academic integrity, and its research) and popular (in terms of its interesting subject, and lively writing style).	2001-11-28
US	52958127	R2A4B532LJI35L	0521311942	948643290	The Bilingual Family	Books	5	137	139	N	N	If you only want to read one book, this will cover the bases	I'm a native English speaker, married to a Russian, and we want to bring our daughter up bilingually. I found this book very useful - it is easy to read, easy to understand, and a good survey of the main issues, while raising some of the deeper issues of language acquisition. I would recommend it to anyone in my position. Like all the best books on child raising, it acknowledges that each child is unique, and so restricts itself to general guidelines on how to approach each situation. One minor quibble is that it does not deal with the problems of teaching two alphabets, but this is not a common problem, and we will just deal with this when it arises. The thing that I really like about this book is that both authors are bringing up their children bilingually, and use their children as case studies. They have many other case studies, which makes it clear how many different situations can arise, and what has worked in each case. They are also smart enough to include the case of parents with different native languages who choose to bring up their child with a single language.<br />They emphasise the importance of establishing consistency in the approach to language - whatever you decide is the best way, you should stick to it, and let the child work with this situation. This could be the standard one parent/one language approach, modified as appropriate when there are non bilinguals present, or it could be one language for the home, the other language outside. The book has other approaches that have worked in other situations, including trilingual situations.<br />The other thing that I learned from this book is that it is crucial to expose your child to situations where they use the language. If they need to speak a language, then they will. There were many stories of children who refused to speak one language, until they were confronted with a grandparent/cousin/friend who could only speak that language, and then the fluency came fast.<br />Another interesting pointwas that you should not be worried if your child mixes the languages - they will sort things out in time. It may not be a misunderstanding about meaning, it may just be that different words have different associations, and these get distinguished eventually. The authors also caution against correcting your child's language too much, which seems like good advice to me. Language is more a tool, than a skill; you are using it to communicate, rather than score points for correct usage.<BR>I read this book in a day - it's readable, with lots of real-life examples. It also has some side-tracks into the deeper issues of linguistic theory, which raises some interesting issues, and there is a list of books suggested for further reading.	2001-11-27
US	52958127	R2IQXH0S7YRZOF	031225346X	931904718	The Prometheus Deception	Books	4	0	1	N	N	All the classic Ludlum ingredients	I've never read a Ludlum book that I didn't like, but then, I haven't read a lot of his recent ones, mainly because they got bad reviews here. I picked this one up in an airport, and enjoyed it tremendously. Yes, the characters are one dimensional, and the plotting is weaker than in the past. One major character is introduced, developed, and suddenly dies, and another switches sides so many times, that they themselves seem to have lost track of their motivation. The main flaw of this book is that it doesn't follow its own internal logic, and this will annoy people who get annoyed by this sort of thing.<br />I do sometimes get annoyed by it, but I felt that the presence of all the classic Ludlum mainstays more than made up for this. There was that single word sentence, without which no Ludlum novel would be complete. Madness! There was the mysterious, beautiful Mossad agent who saves the hero's life. The hero is blessed with an impossibly long skill set, from demolition, to hand-to-hand combat, to linguistics, to Middle East history, and has no problem in going from a battle zone, to the teaching faculty of an East Coast liberal arts college, and back again, in the space of a month. <br />I don't know if it's that I expect more of a plot, or if Ludlum has got weaker, but there were definitely problems with this story's structure. Also, I'm a Russia specialist, and the mistakes about the Russian language, and Moscow geography, were annoying. Having said that, I couldn't put it down I read it straight through, ignoring all distractions, just like with the Ludlums of old. <br />Another thing worth mentioning is that it is very prescient, with hijackings, and anthrax attacks, and the war against terrorism, and everything. Trust Ludlum to keep his material current, even if the story has basically not changed in twenty years.	2001-11-27
US	52958127	R1LIMSE9IOJXY2	0385335709	209598506	Second Hand	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Nice love story, with a side trip into the world of junk	This is the story of a man who is obsessed by junk. He is obsessed by estate sales and thrift stores. Just after his mother dies, he starts an affair with Theresa, who works in an animal shelter, trying to look after abandoned pets, and killing them when she can't. Our hero falls in love with Theresa, the first time in his life that he has done so. But she cannot reciprocate because she is too emotionally scarred by all the pets that she has killed.  <br />The other part of the plot is the hero's own discovery of who his parents really were, through the junk that they left behind. Together, he and Theresa come to terms with their respective losses, in a beautiful ritual, which marks the book's culmination.<BR> <BR>I found the characters both interesting and sympathetic. They all had something to admire and something not to admire. You get a detailed description of the lives and problems of people who make a living from junk and of those who work in animal shelters. I found myself wondering how you can stay sane, if you spend your days killing pets that people discarded like old clothes. They also develop in a believable way. I didn't find them annoying in any way, unlike some reviewers, but then, your mileage may vary. <br />This is essentially a story about two people who expect to live lives without love. At times they love each other, and for a lot of time they hate each other. It's a bit like &quot;Frankie and Johnny&quot;. How it all ends is not at all predictable and the way it ends is so wonderful as to verge on magic realism.	2001-10-03
US	52958127	R2R0T6MX26ZCTV	0812090187	72610574	Labrador Retrievers: Everything About Purchase, Care, Nutrition, Diseases, Breeding, and Behavior (Barron's Complete Pet Owner's Manuals)	Books	3	33	35	N	N	Great starter guide, but by no means comprehensive	We are six months into life with our labrador, and there is no question that things were made much easier by having this book, if only to reassure you that you are doing the right thing. I would have liked it if the book had been a little more forthcoming on the drawbacks of owning a labrador. Not that I would have changed my mind about buying one, but it would have been nice to have been prepared for the problems of shedding, and the slow maturity, etc. On the other hand, the book is small and [inexpensive], and never claims to be a comprehensive guide. If you are thinking about taking the plunge, this book covers 80% of the information that you need to know, but I would strongly recommend that you find the rest of the information through an internet search. This book calls itself a Complete Pet Owner's manual, but it isn't. But, given the low price, the book is good value.	2001-06-29
US	52958127	RNP3NSJCS2TNX	0786805692	393951124	The Wind Singer (The Wind on Fire, Book 1)	Books	4	6	7	N	N	Better for young adults rather than for adults	I only realised that this was not a full adult book when I started reading the other reviews. This book does not have the richness of, say, The Golden Compass by Philip Pullman, or the Harry Potter books, which are &quot;young adult&quot; books that have successfully crossed over for an adult audience. But it is fine for a young adult audience.<br />I blazed through it in one evening: the story is highly gripping, and keeps your attention throughout. Teenagers will respond well to the story of two young people, one concerned with action (Kestrel) another with feelings (Bowman), who rebel against a structured life of exams and rigid classes. Sound like school? It's also a nice touch that the feeling character is male, and the action one is female, although the book is not politically correct in a heavy handed way.<br />Kestrel's rebellion and wilfulness land her in trouble, and also bring her face to face with the hidden emperor of their world, who tasks her with bringing back the wind singer, and saving the nation. This involves a perilous journey out of the walled city, Aramanth, to the mountains in the North, and brings her, and her brother, in contact with interesting and dangerous people.<br />The story is simple, and pretty linear, but that is what will keep a young person's attention. The morality is not heavy-handed, but the values it preaches of individuality and tolerance are just the right ones. Not particularly recommended for adults therefore, but a great read for younger readers.	2001-06-19
US	52958127	R1555ZMMJ2O33Z	0140095195	69867189	First Russia, Then Tibet (Travel Library)	Books	5	15	16	N	N	Excellent travel memoir in the style of Newby and Hopkirk	I first dismissed Robert Byron's book ''First Russia, then Tibet&quot; because it came across as an anti-Soviet diatribe. I picked it up again because a good friend, whose opinion I respect, said that it was good.  On a second reading Byron was less prejudiced than I had at first thought, and I realized that what I had thought was right-wing blinkers was in fact a fine aesthetic sensitivity. He also understands that one of the most important things for a travel writer is to observe people and not just places. He describes Russia shortly after Lenin's death.<br />I thought at first that he was there as a political observer but I was a lot more sympathetic when it became clear that he was really interested in the art and architecture. You end up with an interesting picture of Russia just after Lenin's death, and just before Stalin's crackdown.<br />The second two thirds of the book are more interesting, though. He recounts the first commercial flight from Britain to India, which takes all of a week. He then retells a short journey into Tibet, something as forbidden then as it is now. <br />What really stands out is how he describes how everyone looks and lives, be they a Maharajah or Tibetan peasant. You can literally feel and smell the rigors of travel in a place that has not progressed much beyond medieval technology.  He does not judge anyone although he is ultimately very sympathetic to the Tibetans' rejection of the modern world. You get the sense that he could have been very scathing about the attitude of the British colonials to the locals, but instead chooses to say nice things about those colonizers who did make the effort to meet the natives on their own terms. <br />One note: the description of a dinner at the governor's house in Darjeeling is one of the funniest passages that I have ever read.  Byron's deadpan style is perfect to describe a minor incident in a place where nothing ever happens. It reminds me of the game of cricket in &quot;England, their England&quot;. His descriptions of his travel companions, and the fact that they are often more reluctant than he, are gently witty, and turned back on himself. <br />I would recommend this to people who liked &quot;A short walk in the Hindu Kush&quot;, or who read Peter Hopkirk's books on exploration and espionage in Central Asia in the last century.	2001-05-28
US	52958127	RCDE2WK8KFCIE	0345347951	589013680	Childhood's End	Books	4	9	11	N	N	Excellent prophetic book, ignore the synopsis above	The synopsis above says that the overlords start eliminating humans, which is utter tripe. I apologise for the plot spoiler, but it's worse to have a wrong spoiler like that above.<br />Anyway, rant over. The story starts off almost exactly like the film Independence Day - huge ships appear and hover over Earth. But the continuation is very different. The Overlords are definitely hiding something, but it's not clear what. Don't worry, all is revealed over the course of this readable, short, and engrossing book.<br />There are two things to like about this book. The first is how prophetic it is. It was written in 1953, but foresees the pill, and DNA testing, and universal surveillance, and holograms, among other things. One prophecy that has not come true, but might, is that as people become richer, they become lazier, especially mentally, and watch TV the whole time. At one point, Clarke says, in shocked tones, that people are watching three hours of TV a day!<br />The second thing to like about this book is the way that it manages to tell the story of the relationship between the human race, and the Overlords, through individual stories, rather than through a history-book like relating of the facts. There is not a lot of character development, but you get to identify with the players.<br />The way the story developed was surprising, and it's surprising how original it felt. I would have thought that someone would have ripped it off by now. Maybe the later generation of sci-fi writers don't read the classics. Anyway, you won't get the feeling that you have read this book before, which is quite common for me with these sci-fi and fantasy books.	2001-02-22
US	52958127	R3CO342RMHTV41	0441005241	733422192	Burnt Offerings (Anita Blake, Vampire Hunter, Book 7)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Anita Blake fans get another treat	I'm reading these books in order, and what I really like about them is that they are in no way formulaic. Each instalment differs from the previous ones in an interesting way, and the structure changes rapidly. I don't want to spoil it, but this one has a different final scene from the usual, which usually has Anita outgunning or outsmarting insurmountable odds. There is an element of that here, but there is also a lot more subtlety. Just as we have learned a lot as we go through this series, so does Anita.<br />There is very little of Richard, the werewolf non-boyfriend in this instalment - it's all about Anita, Jean-Claude, and the vampires. We learn a lot more about the vampire hierarchy and history, and as always, there is an interesting new monster to learn about. In particular, you get to meet the world's most powerful and senior vampires, with all their nasty kinks. Even more than in the real world, you don't get to be number one vampire by being a nice guy!<br />My one criticism of this book is that it winds up a number of plot lines very rapidly at the end. I suspect that this was done to keep the book the same length as the previous ones. The author has said that she writes a lot more, and then cuts it down. She does it well, so you don't feel cheated, but I am a greedy person, and would love to have had more. If the Harry Potter books can keep on getting longer, as there is more to write about, then why can't the Anita Blakes?<br />You probably shouldn't start the series with this book - I'm sure you could if you put your mind to it, but you would feel like you were missing out on something. Do yourself a favour - the books are cheap, you can start from the beginning, and enjoy the full experience. The only problem is, the books are very hard to put down, and you may find yourself neglecting other parts of your life, as you keep on reading &quot;just one more chapter&quot;.	2001-02-21
US	52958127	R2NP34OB3UFAP9	0671524313	939508171	The Girlfriends' Guide to Pregnancy: Or everything your doctor won't tell you	Books	5	4	7	N	N	Both I and my wife found this the best book on pregnancy	The most telling anecdote in this book, which is full of hysterical ones, is about a birthing teacher who came to the author's home, to coach her through the &quot;magic of birth&quot;. The problem was, this teacher had never given birth, and so was full of new age rubbish, and got shown the door.<br />The great thing about this book is that it is by someone who HAS given birth, and can write about it, and does not take herself too seriously, even though she has the right to, after four kids.  The key is that the advice is based on real life, from the actual experiences of the author and her friends. So it's not based on theoretical rules, and starts from the premise that what works for one person, may not work for another. This is VITAL, because no matter what your doctor or mother tells you, every pregnancy or child is unique, and needs to be approached that way.<br />I would particularly recommend this book for prospective fathers as it gives you a woman's eye perspective of the whole thing, so you have some idea of what your partner is going through, and how you should act. It will help you tread that fine line between doing too much, and doing too little. Mothers-to-be will want to push this on their partners, as it encourages them to buy diamonds for the mother of their child, as a reward! You won't find that in the standard textbooks!<br />So do yourself a favour, and buy this book - it will make the whole process a whole lot more fun, which is why we are doing it, after all. If we are honest, parenthood is terrifying, even though people as incompetent as our own parents seemed to manage. This book will help you manage, and help remind you that this is an achievement in itself.	2001-01-23
US	52958127	R326XF1Q7XJROX	014024364X	933995871	A People's Tragedy: The Russian Revolution: 1891-1924	Books	4	52	54	N	N	Great historical primer - gets complex later on	I live and work in Russia, and have been studying the place for 12 years or so. In all that time, because I focus on the here and now, I have always felt that I lacked a real grasp of the history, which I try to fill in from time to time. This book is brilliant on the forty years or so that lead up to 1917. Figes brings you into the two worlds of the revolutionaries and the aristocracy. <br />He is not starry-eyed about any of the participants. He is very clear about how the monarchy failed to reform in time, failed to listen to good advice, and basically brought about its own downfall. He also describes how the Tsarist secret police was just as nasty as its Bolshevik equivalent. All of Russia's totalitarian machinery was in place long before the revolution.<br />He also describes how Russia's peasant culture usurped the Marxist ideals of the revolutionaries. This was a crude egalitarian culture, that punished people who became rich, by stealing or confiscating their property, that tolerated drunken layabouts, and that was generally happy to see no improvement in its standard of living over the course of the 19th century. These Russian peasants deeply distrusted the Bolshevik Jews, especially those who came from the cities to &quot;educate&quot; them.<br />The accounts of the revolution are breathtaking, and all those famous events, like the Cruiser Avrora, are put in their place, as well as descriptions of how the military was mobilised to the side of the Bolsheviks. Figes' history of the First World War, and how it fit into the revolution, was also first-rate.<br />So I would recommend this as a starter to anyone looking to get a grasp of the detailed history of the Bolshevik revolution. It becomes heavy going, as it details the factional fighting of the Bolsheviks post-revolution and post-civil war, and I lost track of who was on who's side. But this is only the last quarter of the book, and the fact is that these events are a lot less exciting than what happenedin the first part. <br />I am not a big expert, so I cannot compare this with, say, Pipes' book, which was the standard text when I was a student. My  godfather, who taught Russian history at Oxford for forty years, thinks that Figes' book is the best that he has read. I certainly loved it, and strongly recommend it to anyone thinking about learning about Russia and its history. It's amazing how so much of what happened then is still happening today.	2000-12-14
US	52958127	R86EBT7G9AJHN	0140143459	488185202	Liar's Poker: Rising Through the Wreckage on Wall Street	Books	5	373	391	N	N	A must-read, if you are thinking of working on Wall St	I worked for CSFB for three years, and am still in investment banking for a smaller firm. So I have seen a part of the world that is described here. I'm not saying that this is an exact description of what I saw, because Lewis picks the most exotic creatures that he met, but the atmosphere is perfectly conveyed. This book will tell you all the stuff that they don't teach you in an interview or recruitment visit - the pecking order, the politics, and how to get paid.<br />The other reason to read this is that Lewis is a brilliant writer, with a real talent for describing people and their situations. Lots of other people have written boring books with the same raw material. For a non-specialist like my mother, the technicalities were hard work, but you don't need a lot of special knowledge to like this book. My mother certainly did.<br />Probably the best way to look at this book is like a travel book - you're not visiting a country, you're visiting a world. Great travel books are not word-perfect descriptions of a place, they are representations of what the author felt like when he was there, and they give the reader a feeling of what it was like to be there. If you read this book, you will understand what it feels like to work inside a big bank, and you'll enjoy the ride, even if you have no interest in actually working there.	2000-12-13
US	52958127	RBJUC70B0M3QS	0553379623	173869790	Caring for Your Baby and Young Child: Birth to Age 5	Books	4	94	96	N	N	The index is what sets it apart	We have a lovely six-month old daughter, and have been using this book constantly since she was born. The other books that we liked were the &quot;Girlfriend's guides&quot; but this has a lot more detail, and I feel that it covers a lot more basics. My wife relies heavily on her mother, and a Russian version of Dr Spock, but we tend to leave the final decision to the American Academy.<br />What I really like about this book is that the index is large, and easy to use. So if I look up &quot;rash&quot; there are cross-references to all the various sorts of rash that might appear. Someone has put in a lot of time to make sure that a panicked parent can go straight to this index, and find the key part of the text.<br />The content is very much aimed at the &quot;average&quot; child. This is good in a way, as it does not worry you with rare ailments, and tells you to go see a doctor if there is anything out of the ordinary. So you get advice on dealing with the more common, middle of the road stuff by yourself, but if, God forbid, something more rare comes up, they send you to the doctor. Fair enough - no one wants a lawsuit for giving advice on a patient that they haven't seen, and every child is unique.<br />The other thing that is surprising is that the milestones seem to be late - our daughter seems very early compared to the guidelines in this book, as do other children her age. So it may be that they consciously say that you should expect your child to do something later than they actually do, to avoid people panicking if their child develops some skill later in life. This looks like it would be unavoidable in a book that is trying to be applicable to a group that is as diverse as small children.<br />Anyway, this book has been very helpful to me as the father of a young child, and I hope that your mileage is the same as mine.	2000-12-07
US	52958127	RD4PC33RH2BN3	0316921173	669738240	Infinite Jest: A Novel	Books	4	2	2	N	N	May drive you crazy, but in a good way.	Good points: Gripping story, readable style, original characters Bad points: Footnotes, bloody footnotes! Book ends too soon<br />This story is set in the not too distant future, and centres on a dysfunctional family. The father set up a tennis academy, and then disappeared, leaving behind him mysterious links to a mysterious video cassette, that no one ever wants to stop watching. The mother runs the tennis academy now. The central character, Hal, is a promising pupil at the academy. His elder brother was a star pupil but left, and became a football player. His ex-girlfriend was very beautiful, but may be no longer - she wears a veil, and is housed at a halfway house for addicts, near the academy. We meet many of the inmates of the halfway house.<br />That is about half of what you will find in this novel - it's long because there is so much in it. All of this is exqusitely arranged, so that although it may seem like War and Peace, it all becomes quite familiar. <br />There are many very annoying footnotes, which have you chopping back and forward from the end of the book to where you are reading, and personally, I lost patience with them in the end. I guess this is the price of postmodernity. Your mileage may vary.<br />Basically though, as a plain old novel, with narrative and ideas, this is a great piece of work. DFW stops early, and doesn't quite explain everything that is going on, but that doesn't matter too much - you enjoy the ride too much, and again, maybe the lack of a conclusion is postmodern, too. <br />Calling your book postmodern is a great excuse to not write a good book that obeys the rules that good books must obey. This book is postmodern, and it obeys the rules, most of the time, except for the footnotes, but those can be ignored, if you want. <br />The other thing that I got out of this book was a brilliant description of addiction and depression - I know depressives, and I understand them a lot better after reading this book, which has improved both my and their lives. Some people may think that you either love or hate this book - I think that most people will both love and hate this book, but it is hard to imagine anyone not finding something to love about it.	2000-12-01
US	52958127	REZEQSMIU1LC4	0679826718	220124378	The Tiger in the Well (Sally Lockhart Trilogy, Book 3)	Books	5	17	19	N	N	Satisfying conclusion to an excellent trilogy	We start the story with Sally living happily in the country, with her friends and her daughter, and everything is wonderful. Then she falls into a nightmare - someone, claiming to be her husband, wants custody of her daughter. Who hates Sally so much that he wants to destroy her utterly, and steal her daughter?<br />This is a really gripping story with no loose ends. Sally goes on a journey through the underside of Victorian London, ending up in Spitalfields. I used to live in this area, and loved reading the way that Pullman brought its history to life. The baddies are very bad, and get their comeuppance. The finale is worthy of a Hollywood action movie.<br />I came to these books after reading The Golden Compass and The Subtle Knife. The Sally Lockhart trilogy has none of the fantasy aspects of these books - it's set firmly in gritty, dirty Victorian England. The stories are simpler, so the books would be easier for a younger reader. Sally is a real role model heroine for a young girl - she never gives up, and is very smart and brave.<br />For the older reader, the attractions are the quality of the stories (except perhaps for the middle book), and the excellent descriptions of life in Victorian England. These stories rattle along at a fast pace, with plot twists coming from the baddies trying to outwit Sally and her friends. Sally ends up in the Victorian underworld, and the portrayal of street gangs, and the lives they lead, is very believable. A nice piece of social history. Highly recommended.	2000-11-24
US	52958127	R36CO6KQYLZU71	0441004520	84311395	The Killing Dance (Anita Blake, Vampire Hunter)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	My wife is starting to hate these books..	..because I am so uncommunicative when engrossed in them. I had thought that they were getting repetitive in number 5, Bloody Bones, but this one marks a real return to form. It may very well be the best of the series so far. Normally the plot has built up fairly predictably towards a showdown with some indescribable monster, but this is much more cleverly plotted. It just keeps on twisting and turning in the plotlines that relate to Anita's love life, and her battle with evil monsters.<br />As always, it starts with a bang, as Anita takes a meeting with Jean Claude, and a vampire who is rotting, because he went vegetarian. They think that Anita posesses magic that can save the vampire. She then learns that someone has taken out a very expensive contract to kill her. Not only this, but her boyfriend, the werewolf, has to be persuaded to kill his rival for pack leader.<br />The last book talked less about Anita's lovelife, but here it is up front and centre, and a major plot driver. This book has more sexual content in it than all of the previous ones put together, and is the better for it, in my opinion. Ms Hamilton can write good believable erotica. I especially like the way that she mixed in erotica with magic.<br />You could probably read this book by itself, and not lose anything - she's good at explaining things as she goes along, and typically, the key plot points are newly introduced with each story. This is a really good thriller, and would be a good introduction to the series. <br />I may now have to take a breather from reading the rest of the series, if only to keep my wife happy! However, it is difficult to keep away from the alternative Midwest that Ms Hamilton has created, one where vampires and werewolves and faeries are facts of everyday life, alongside SUVs and yuppies.	2000-11-21
US	52958127	R1ZSQ5IKB2OMWP	006101351X	637283524	The Perfect Storm: A True Story of Men Against the Sea	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Much, much better than the film	It would be hard to do justice to a book as rich as this. The book goes into detail about the lives and backgrounds about all the men on the Andrea Gail, and about the town they set sail from. You also learn a lot more about the rescue jumpers, and the  staggering selection process that they go through. And of course, about the harsh fishing industry, and that storm. You will live through every gut-wrenching twist of fate that led up to the tragedy, and the story is told so well, that you will be gripped to the end, even though you know what is going to happen.<br />This reads like &quot;The Longest Day&quot; or &quot;A Bridge Too Far&quot; - the action is interspersed with biographies and character sketches of the main players. The human story is gripping, but I think that it's the quality of the writing, and the balance of the book that  makes this so easy to read. I think Junger has a background in magazine writing, so he has a style that is very approachable, and he splits the narrative up into digestible chunks.<br />Then again, anyone can find a human interest story, and write about it in bite-sized pieces. I think the other strength of this book is that Junger really does care about the people that he is writing about. The families of the men on the Andrea Gail were talking about suing the film makers, but I don't think they were unhappy about the way that Junger portrayed their loved ones. He portrays the harshness of their lives, and how hard it is to provide for your loved ones when you depend on nature for your income, without glamourizing it, or slumming it, either. <br />So the reason why I think that you should buy this book is because Sebastian Junger has found a subject that he is passionate about, and he has the ability to communicate this so that you will be passionate about it, too. I really enjoyed reading this book, and I came out of it feeling that I knew the characters and the places involved.	2000-11-20
US	52958127	R36K4CVMIGET81	0441003745	132449687	Bloody Bones (Anita Blake, Vampire Hunter)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Great book - made me late for work	Anita is sent out of town to do a mass raising of an ancient graveyard, a job that she might not be up to. While out of town, she visits a bloody vampire slaying of three boys, and then another slaying of a young woman. All of this weaves together, and she must join with Jean-Claude to confront the local master vampire, an old foe of Jean-Claude's.<br />I don't know how the reader below found this hard to get into. Like all the other books, it was unputdownable - I was so engrossed, I annoyed my wife, and was late for work two days running. Fortunately they are short, and I read quickly, so I finished it in a couple of days.<br />This felt the most formulaic of the five books in this series so far. There is almost nothing about Anita's relationship with the man she loves, and a lot about the man she lusts after. But we have been over a lot of this territory before. As always, there are some new creatures to learn about, and this is interesting, but all of the territory is very familiar. There is only so much you can do with the same ingredients, I guess. <br />The bottom line, though, is that Ms Hamilton writes a cracking good story, and these books are gripping and satisfying reads. The characters never do anything illogical, and there are no loose ends. I can't imagine not being able to get into this book, as one reviewer found - my problem is getting out!	2000-11-17
US	52958127	R39JY1MM5AWQNN	0140147551	988777649	The Deptford Trilogy: Fifth Business; The Manticore; World of Wonders	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Great story, and interesting novel of ideas	This trilogy tells the story of three men, from a small village in Canada. One is a schoolmaster from an exclusive Canadian private school, another is a prominent Canadian politician, and the third is a famous magician. The first book is the schoolmaster's story, the second is the politician's as told by his son to a Jungian analyst, and the third is the story of the magician.<br />There's a lot more here than just the story. You will learn a lot about Canada, saints, WWII, magic, theatre, heraldry, and Jungian pyschology. This book is densely and exquisitely woven. Be warned that you get to learn about all these things through Davies's eyes, and he is not an especially progressive or politically correct thinker. There's a wonderful moment, when he describes a character as being schooled in Canada, and educated in Oxford.<br />I have re-read this book, and will do so again. The characters are fascinating, and all reflect various prejudices of Davies'. Paul, the magician, acquires a wonderful sidekick, called Liesl, who is a unique character. The magic world, and the world of magic, keeps on drawing me back in. This book tackles some big themes, like religion, theatre and people's desire to be deceived. Lots of food for thought.<br />I think this is a great book, and better than the Salterton trilogy. It is very well rounded off, and the interplay between the themes, the actions, and the characters is more satisfying. I think that Davies does a better job of letting the characters be themselves, rather than reflections of his ideas. This book will take you into worlds which you never imagined you would want to know about, and will show you a mystery that is not clear until the last page. Highly recommended.	2000-11-16
US	52958127	RF0SZ498B4YZH	0441002935	989309946	The Lunatic Cafe (Anita Blake, Vampire Hunter)	Books	5	3	4	N	N	These get better and better	This is the fourth in the Anita Blake series. Anita meets a client who wants her to find his wife, a secret werewolf. She then goes on a date with her new boyfriend, and discovers a secret about him. Hours later, Anita barely escapes with her life from a meeting with the chief werewolf, who asks her to find out why werewolves are disappearing. She is then called to an out-of-town murder site, where the victim has been ripped apart by a werewolf. Why are the redneck cops so eager to keep her out of this investigation?<br />I am reading these books in order, and although they are all unputdownable, it feels like they are getting better and better. The plots get more complex, and the characters get deeper. I think that Anita gets more and more attractive as we get to know her better - she was a one-dimensional tomboy earlier on, but she has filled out quite a lot since. In each book, we see a new set of interesting creatures, and more about the alternate World that  Ms Hamilton writes about.<br />The only point of comparison that I have is the &quot;Interview with the Vampire&quot; series, which I also like. These books are more gory, but much lighter, with more interesting plots. The Anne Rice books are more sexy and sensual, but by this stage in the series, the Anita Blake books are starting to become quite sexy. So they are catching up in that respect, and as I say, I think that the pace and plotting is better than the Anne Rice books.	2000-11-15
US	52958127	R3HF56MPTU1UQ6	0394825993	994590504	The Shadow in the North (Sally Lockhart Trilogy, Book 2)	Books	4	4	6	N	N	Weakest (but still good) book in a fine trilogy	In this book we meet Sally settled in life, with a job as a financial adviser. She advises a client to invest in a company that goes bust, because its ship is sunk. She decides to investigate. At the same time, one of her friends is trying to track down a genius magician...<br />Although, like the other books in this series, this book is hard to put down, and very entertaining, I didn't like it as much. The plot is a bit far-fetched and the politics and the inventions go a little too far in altering the past. I also found some of the characters hard to believe, too. Don't get me wrong, I did enjoy this book, I just didn't think it was up to the same standard as the other two.<br />Moralists may disapprove of Sally's behaviour in this book - yet another case of the modern intruding into a historical novel, but then again, her behaviour is in keeping with her character, so I didn't mind it. Plus, it is pretty much the norm today. Just a warning to prim parents who worry about book characters as role models. <br />Otherwise I have no problems in recommending this book, along with the rest of the series, which is even better.	2000-11-14
US	52958127	R18OUBDVBGMQJZ	0394895894	312522121	The Ruby in the Smoke: A Sally Lockhart Mystery	Books	4	35	39	N	N	Not as good as His Dark Materials, but still gripping	This trilogy is the story of Sally Lockhart, a young woman who overcomes obstacles and enemies to build a life in Victorian England, where young ladies should be seen and not heard. In this book, she discovers the true story of who her father is, and how her mother died. She will also hunt for a fabulous ruby, and travel through the lower depths of the East End of London.<br />I think that this is the best of this trilogy, although the last book is very good. The mystery is very compelling, and Pullman is brilliant at drawing you into the world of Victorian England. This will have you on the edge of your seat! Sally Lockhart is an attractive character, and takes everything that is thrown at her by Pullman in good heart. I definitely wanted to read the whole series after this one.<br />I came to this story after The Golden Compass and the Subtle Knife. I think that His Dark Materials is much richer and deeper than this series, but maybe the Sally Lockhart books are easier for a younger audience to read. They are set in a more familiar world, and the stories do not interwind. At the same time, Philip Pullman is a cut above most children's storytellers, as his characters and stories are more original and modern - Sally is definitely a feminist heroine. Will definitely keep this one for my daughter to read.	2000-11-09
US	52958127	R34MSQEAFVQ4JE	0345434803	464589829	The Vampire Armand (The Vampire Chronicles) Book 6	Books	5	13	15	N	N	If you like this sort of thing, you'll like this	This book tells the story of Armand, from his kidnapping from a Ukraine, via his initiation as a vampire, in Venice, to Paris and  the Vampires' theatre, up to the present day. All of your Anne Rice favourites are here.<br />This book is less about plot, and more about the investigation of an important character, and of course, the usual pure indulgence in sensual delights. Armand has tried just about everything, including abstinence, and we get his take on all of it.<br />I've re-read this book, and it doesn't tire the second time round. There is so much detail, that there is always something new to appreciate. As historic fiction, this book is fascinating, because it takes you to unusual places. As fiction it is fun, because even minor characters get properly rendered.<br />If you have started to read Anne Rice and like it, then this book is a worthy successor to the rest of the series. I can't be sure how this book would read by itself - obviously it has spoilers for the other books, especially the first, but I think that it would stand well on its own.	2000-11-02
US	52958127	R23SG681UN8E0N	0192833634	569473707	Mansfield Park (Oxford World's Classics)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Masterly observations of people and their relations	This is the story of a young girl, who goes to live with her richer cousins. They don't treat her very well, but she prevails. This is a short summary of a rich plot, which Jane Austen conjures up out of her characters, and the social rules of the world that they live in. What is amazing is that there is little in the way of plot tricks - everything arises organically from the characters. Most of the books you read these days rely on all kinds of devices, from war to interplanetary invasion, and Jane Austen shows that you don't need these to create a compelling story.<br />I was interested by the character of Fanny Price - yes, she is stubborn, but only to be true to herself, even though everyone thinks that she is denying herself happiness. She chooses not to be a hypocrite, and actually play by the rules that everyone else lectures her about. She is in wonderful contrast to Mrs Norris, a classic Austen villainness, who does nothing bad, but just is a nasty selfish hypocrite.<br />I loved the way that there are changes in the way that the characters think about each other, and about the world. In other words, the people in this book are really alive, and you don't think of them as representations at all.<br />True, Miss Bennett in Pride and Prejudice is a more attractive character, but I think that the way that the characters are made to work for the plot in this book makes Mansfield Park a better book. Perhaps one wouldn't want to live there, but this is a book that can be read and re-read, and there is always something new. The balance of this book is perfect.	2000-11-01
US	52958127	R1IL84XAPHHFZ2	0679879269	731430286	The Amber Spyglass (His Dark Materials, Book 3)	Books	5	0	1	N	N	A worthy finale to a wonderful trilogy	Well, I can't help feeling deflated now that I have finished this book. I have found the whole series gripping all the way, and in the Amber Spyglass, Pullman wraps everything up so neatly, I felt a little disappointment, because I know that the excitement is over. But the ride was definitely worth it, and I am already thinking about re-reading this series, if I can get back the copies of the books that I have pressed on friends.<br />I think that I enjoyed this the most of the series, because I think that Pullman developed as a writer during this series. Just as I found the Dark Materials a huge improvement over the Shadow in the North series. What I loved about this series was the way that characters are allowed to be both good and bad, and have doubts, and disappointments. Without these, the books would be quite predictable.<br />As it was, this book was full of surprises. We see a lot more of Dr Malone, the ex-nun and scientist from the Subtle Knife, and a whole new species, the Mulefa. We also get the resolution of the revolution against heaven, started by Lord Asriel. There's lots of other wonderful stuff, which I can't tell you, or it would spoil the plot. <br />Let me just say that the ending is unexpected, and I think showed real inspiration on the part of the author. He didn't choose the easy option, which is why I want to return to it, and re-read this book. These are really great books, that will become as immortal as Tolkien.	2000-10-30
US	52958127	R1Q7QE22TKH1MZ	0345413369	872660777	The Subtle Knife (His Dark Materials, Book 2)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	A worthy sequel to The Golden Compass	I came across this series when it was recommended as a good thing to read while waiting for the next Harry Potter to come out. I then found myself in the situation of waiting with bated breath for the third book in this series to come out! If anything these are better than the Harry Potter books, because they have a bit more depth, and a little more darkness. You know when Harry gets into trouble, that he will get out of it, and you won't need to fear for him for a long time. When Lyra and Will get into trouble in this series, you really do find yourself worrying that something bad will happen.<br />This book actually starts in the real world, the one we live in. The first book started in a parallel world, that is like ours, just moved a bit sideways. We follow the adventures of Will, who lives with his mother. His father has gone exploring and has been away many years. Will has to kill some men who try to steal the only posession of his father's that his mother still has, and then escapes. He then goes into another world, with a whole new set of creatures, and meets another child who needs to find a place in the world with very little help from her parents. It's Lyra from the first book. <br />Prophecies, witches (both good and bad), palaces and mystery abound. A little more is revealed about dust, and what is going on in these parallel worlds.<br />I think that these books deserve to be compared with Tolkien. You just want to lose yourself in the world that they create, and it raises the same big questions, against a backdrop of a struggle between good and evil. It is not always clear what is good and what is evil. They have the magic combination of being difficult to put down, and easy to reread. <br />Pullman is not heavy in his treatment of the church. The villainous churchmen exist in a different world from ours, and it seems fairly clear that they are only that way because of the way that this world has progressed. There is no criticism of the church in our world, and Pullman has nothing against religion. So don't worry that this book will turn your child into a Satanist or an atheist. <br />It might enchant them, so don't let them read it if you're worried about that. My father read me Tolkien when I was six, and I can't wait to read this book to my daughter, who is six months. In the meantime, I will re-read it myself.	2000-10-27
US	52958127	R1Q0VZZQ2ED0VI	0345414365	849379565	Merro Tree (Del Rey Discovery)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Enchanting book with strong characters and stories	This story is about the redeeming power of beauty and integrity. The main character, Rikk, is a misfit child, abused by his parents, who becomes a great entertainer. This gives him too much power, and the Stalinist trade unionist who regulate the entertainers try to bring him down.<br />This book works well because the characters are well defined, and they relate to each other in a believable way. The plot is well structured, moving seamlessly between different times. Rather like the main character in the Fountainhead, Rikk triumphs because he remains true to his art and himself.<br />This is real science fiction, although there is little in the way of fancy gadgets. But there is no end of strange tribes and creatures, and interplanetary travel. This is a book that I like to re-read (it takes me about 2 hours), and recommend to my friends.	2000-10-25
US	52958127	R3B9U5ZBAE382T	0201626985	41835885	Talking To Parents	Books	5	17	17	N	N	Easy-to-read book from a great psychologist	These are a set of collected articles, many of them transcripts of radio talks given by Winnicott, who is one of the best regarded child psychologists in the UK.  I bought this shortly after the birth of our daughter, our first child, and expect to return to it a lot in the coming years. Basically, Winnicott talks about how to introduce the word &quot;no&quot; to your child, and that although you may never be as good a parent as you want to be, often genuinely wanting to be a good parent is enough. That's what I got from the first reading - I will read it again, several times, and expect that both I and my daughter will benefit a lot from it. It is easy to read, with gentle humour, by a man who really cares about children and their parents.	2000-10-24
US	52958127	R17YD9W0675K03	0385498853	367106916	Dead Solid Perfect	Books	5	9	11	N	N	Definitely a keeper - you either love or loathe Jenkins	It's clear from the reviews on this page that not everyone likes Dan Jenkins. However, those who like him are hardcore fans, jealously guarding their out-of-print copies, even though they would love to share the joy with their friends.<br />Jenkins is no liberal - his politics are straight out of the south. Having said that, the most sympathetic character in this book is a liberal woman, so I wouldn't call Dan Jenkins prejudiced. <br />What really comes through in this book is Jenkins' love of sport, and golf in particular, and for people who live life to the full without preaching, or listening to preachers. It's also a gripping story which will appeal to sports fans who must always stay to bitter end, just in case the sport offers up a million-to-one surprise ending, so that they can tell their grandchildren: &quot;I was there&quot;.<br />The most important thing about Jenkins is that you feel that he cares - about his characters, and about sport. It's nice to have a bit of passion in a book, and maybe passion is by definition politically incorrect.	2000-10-23
US	52958127	R10OZP8C9ATEX5	0812932153	277188955	Sale of the Century: Russia's Wild Ride from Communism to Capitalism	Books	5	12	14	N	N	Highly readable account	I have lived in Moscow since 1997, and worked there since 1991. I was peripherally involved in a lot of the things that are described in this book, and much of my job involved commenting on them. I can recommend this book to both experts and amateurs.<br />Ms Freeland was the FT correspondent in Moscow during the heyday of Russia's oligarchs, and her story is based on a framework of meetings with all the people who helped a small group of bankers walk off with a significant chunk of Russia's state-owned assets. One of the things that I most enjoyed about this book are the personal details about the players, and the gossippy anecdotes about the things they got up to. The detail is important in Russia, and although she covers it, she never gets you bogged down in it.<br />I think that this will have staying power as one of the better contemporary accounts of a fascinating period in history. I can certainly voice for its authenticity. One of my colleagues, who was closer to the action, feels that she seemed to have too much admiration for a group of people who are, when all is said and done, criminals. Sometimes you do have to remind yourself that the interviewee would be in jail in any civilised country. But then, the quality of a story is not in its moral judgements, but in whether it conveys the information, and keeps you interested. This book definitely does that.	2000-10-20
US	52958127	R298KX93PD12NM	0441000916	632637589	The Laughing Corpse (Anita Blake, Vampire Hunter)	Books	5	0	1	N	N	Better than the first	I enjoyed this more than Guilty Pleasures - I got a stronger sense of the characters, and the relationship between them. I think that the whole world of Anita Blake was better explained in this book, than in the first one. The plot was a little more sophisticated, too.	2000-10-20
US	52958127	R1PH8MWPS2LYR3	0441001971	4008031	Circus of the Damned (Anita Blake, Vampire Hunter)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	These are getting addictive	I am religiously reading these in order, and each one is progressively harder to put down. Obviously one has to suspend a lot of disbelief - Anita beats a lot of baddies who are bigger than her - but Ms Hamilton writes will enough to persuade you to do this.  These are great stories of the supernatural and magic, which move at a fast pace - none of your languid Anne Rice-style eroticism here. But then, this is what makes them entertaining. The other thing that lifts this series above the ordinary is the characters, which are well-drawn, and appealing. It's nice to read stories populated by people with feelings. I am looking forward to seeing how Anita's new relationship is handled.	2000-10-20
US	52958127	R18SSKKGCUYEWP	0679893105	994627826	The Golden Compass (His Dark Materials, Book 1)	Books	5	15	17	N	N	Tolkien, with a dash of Neal Stephenson - as good as both	This is a superb book - I compare it to Neal Stephenson, because its central character is a tough, endearing little girl, and the people she meets on her adventures. It is like Tolkien, because of the magical world it creates, with religious overtones. Pullman's England is recognisably England, just one which took a completely different historical turn, about five hundred years ago. His world is like the real world, just moved a little to one side.<br />I came across this book, as it was listed as a good book to read while waiting for the next Harry Potter to come out. It has more depth than Harry Potter, and is less of a romp, but anyone who likes Harry Potter, will find something to like here. Let's just say that the magic in &quot;His Dark Materials&quot; is as much internal as external, and you have to work a little harder to understand the mystery.<br />Sometimes in my loopier moments, I think that Pullman might have hit upon some kind of religious truth. My office in Moscow is just round the corner from the lab where Kurchatov discovered the particles that are important in this book. This is probably off the mark, though, and doesn't make any difference to whether or not you enjoy the book. <br />I am seriously thinking about giving this series to my father (who likes Tolkien), my mother, (who likes thrillers), and my sisters and brother in law, who all love a good story. It will certainly make my Christmas present-buying easier this year.	2000-10-20
US	52958127	R234IOLWSHZSDH	0441304834	453010069	Guilty Pleasures (Anita Blake Vampire Hunter)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Highly readable - more action than sensuality	I came to this series after greatly enjoying the Anne Rice vampire series. Guilty Pleasures lacks the history and voluptuousness of the Rice books. However, the plotting is much more urgent, and it's more of a page-turner. Not disappointing, just different. Anita is an interesting character, and there is plenty of room for development. If I thought that this was the only book, I would have been disappointed not to know more about the background of the people involved. As it is, I know I have something to look forward to.	2000-10-13
US	52958127	R3K0YNZM0I2MEL	015650300X	542814625	Le Petit Prince (French Language Edition)	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Amazingly deep children's book, with plenty for adults	This is a book that everyone should read, like a sort of emotional vaccination in childhood. In simple language, in a simple story, it delves into how we should relate to each other, and how we should live our lives. Only great writers can convey this in such an uncomplicated way. There is something in this book that will speak to everyone.	2000-10-10
US	52958127	RDBN34TDZ3FMH	1561581305	9972910	The Not So Big House: A Blueprint for the Way We Really Live	Books	4	6	7	N	N	Enjoyable, albeit slight, book that will make you think	I enjoyed this book, and it is definitely a keeper. It is very much focussed at the American market, where building houses is more common than it is in Europe, especially in the UK. What I got from it was some interesting ideas about how a house is actually used, and a reminder to focus on daily use, not just impressiveness. I would have welcomed more detail on other matters, but the book is more a manifesto for the above idea, than a detailed how-to guide. I would definitely recommend it to anyone thinking about remodelling or building their living space.	2000-09-29
US	52958127	R13HVJ8NT8GRIQ	0439139597	667539744	Harry Potter And The Goblet Of Fire (Book 4)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Probably the best of the series so far	It's certainly the fullest - double the size of the previous offerings. I haven't come across anyone who doesn't enjoy these books. She follows the Joe-Bob Briggs rule of sequels, which is that the closer a sequel is to the original, the better it will be. The formula is still the same, but the mix gets richer and richer with time. Plus there is now a real story developing through the books, as well as Harry's development. It really is staggering how, given that there are so many books, one book can stand out so far - Ms Rowling really has a magic gift.	2000-09-29
US	52958127	R1O7G35RYQ3APS	0380806576	827347608	Veronica	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Dreamy magical realism in bohemian New York	This book was hard to put down - the characters are captivating, and the plot is compelling. The narrator falls in love with Veronica, and they try to find her father, a magician. The writing creates an atmosphere like a Cornell box, which is high praise in my book. I think I'll find a lot to enjoy when I re-read the book, too. Highly recommended.	2000-09-26
US	52958127	R2OUWZSLL51WXL	0679410465	778351106	The Master and Margarita (Everyman's Library Contemporary Classics Series)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Somehow Russia falls into place	I have lived and worked in Russia for the last ten years. I remember when I first read this book - I felt that it helped me understand Russia, although I can't point to the exact parts of the book that did this. I  re-read it at least once a year, and always find something new to enjoy.  The plot and the characters are very rich, and the ending is uplifting, in  stark contrast to the reality of Bulgakov's life. I find it difficult to  recommend books to people. It is unlikely that they will read something in  the same way as you. This is the only book that I recommend to everyone,  who suggests to me that they might be interested in my recommendation.	2000-07-28
US	52958127	RVMMSRYHXLV7B	0446605980	264443642	The Last Day	Books	3	2	4	N	N	Impossible to put down, a little simplistic	I read a lot of mass market thrillers, and this is  a very good one. I am a sucker for a good story, and I found myself having to force myself to put it down in order to go to work, or get some sleep. So if you are looking  for a good entertaining read, you will not be disappointed.<br />However, the  characters are all a bit one dimensional, and the dialogue isn't exactly  Oscar Wilde. That's not really relevant - have you ever tried to write  dialogue? It's not easy. The main fault with the book is the baddies,  especially the ones from organised religion. I was yearning for Malachi  Martin, and his subtle observations of Vatican politics. But this is a  fault that only stops the book from being great, and doesn't stop it being  very good.	1999-11-19
