US	52954748	R3L5SYVJG5SDAL	0316789089	760222125	The Pilot's Wife	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Interesting but flawed novel concerning identity	Kathryn Lyons is a pilot's wife.  Her husband, Jack, is killed in a plane crash.  So begins page one of Ms. Shreve's novel who asks the question:  How well do we know our significant other?  As events unfold, Jack's life  seems suspicious to Kathryn who therefore does some major digging and  puzzle-solving to compile the entire picture of her husband, Jack.  Ms.  Shreve's writing is, most of the time, intelligent and nicely structured as  she keeps her story moving by giving subtle hints and clues which keeps us  turning pages.  However, certain scenes and dialogue are filled with  cliches which give the appearance of Ms. Shreve becoming lazy in her  choices.  Still, all in all, this is a nice, easily-read novel giving  readers food-for-thought not only in examining our own relationships but in  understanding that the effects are ever-lasting even though our lives  continue.  Again, a nice selection for Oprah Winfrey to make for us  readers.	1999-04-18
US	52954748	R10H9RRSD2D9OF	0440213290	176496173	The Copper Beech	Books	5	21	21	N	N	A beautfiul novel of love, friendship and community	My exposure to Maeve Binchy has been recent.  Last year with the publication of &quot;Evening Class&quot; and this year with &quot;Tara Road&quot; - Ms. Binchy writes with authority and wisdom leaving me to ponder:  &quot;Where have I been all these years?&quot;  Her novels -  revolving around life in Ireland - detail the universal emotion of life,  love and loss no matter what country we may dwell in or what language we  may speak.  Therefore, I have decided to take a step backwards and read Ms.  Binchy's previous works and, in this case, her 1992 novel, &quot;The Copper  Beech.&quot;  This is a novel to be read and re-read for its sheer beauty.   &quot;The Copper Beech&quot; tells the story of a town called Shancarrig -  meaning old rock for the massive structure which centers the town.  In  particular, the novel focuses on Shancarrig school and its inhabitants. The  beauty of this novel is derived by the symbolic construction in which the  story unfolds.  Each section is devoted to either one of the  schoolchildren, teachers or members of the community.  It is as if each  character represents a branch of the copper beech and as each life unfolds  and comes together with each other, they form the tree.  And just as a tree  needs tending to grow - sun, water and soil - so does the town of  Shancarrig.  Each member of this community brings together the love,  nuturing and devotion which makes their community grow and prosper.  What a  marvelous piece of imagery Maeve Binchy has created.  This novel is filled  with eloquent prose and dialogue with an ending that will tug at your  heart.  We are fortunate to have Ms. Binchy and I will be waiting with  breathless energy to read not only all of her previous works but of the  many more which are sure to follow.	1999-04-12
US	52954748	R10OZE2DWS4SOD	0670885134	627321030	Other People's Children	Books	5	3	3	N	N	The effects of second marriages on parents and children	Joanna Trollope beautifully examines the ever-increasing unit known as stepfamilies.  The effects this union has not only on the new spouse but on the children as well is written with sensetivity and insight.  Ms. Trollope  continues - as in her last novel, &quot;The Best of Friends&quot; -  illustrating today's complex relationships and, in this novel, she focuses  on 3 women:  Nadine, the ex-wife; Josie, the new wife; and, Elizabeth, the  soon-to-be wife.  All 3 women try to cope with issues brought upon second  marriages in addition to accepting their own personal issues which they  bring to the new relationship.  More importantly, are the children - or as  the title explains &quot;other people's children&quot; - brought in from  one family to another.  Rufus, the son of Josie now living with her new  husband, Matthew.  Matthew's children living with their natural mother,  Nadine but whom Rufus must acknowledge as his step-brother and sisters.   All of their adjustments are immense, sometimes painful.  Idealizing their  former life at the expense of accepting and, often times, sabotaging their  present situation is one of the many complex issues Ms. Trollope shows;  and, she does so clearly and, most of all, in a readable fashion.  Moving  forward and accepting the past is a difficult endeavor for adults let alone  children.  Reading this equisite novel, however, Ms. Trollope shows us the  process and success we may obtain when our lives take on an unexpected turn  of events.  Once again, Ms. Trollope comes out a winner.	1999-04-04
US	52954748	R15AIBHOKNY2O2	0312199953	91020937	An Ocean Apart	Books	5	1	2	N	N	The healing process over the loss of a loved one	Robin Pilcher, the son of the much admired, talented, Rosamunde Pilcher has a daunting task - to be able to stand on his talents alone without relying on his mothers success.  In his novel, &quot;An Ocean Apart&quot;  Mr. Pilcher has certainly achieved stardom with this magnificently crafted,  heart-warming work of fiction. Mr. Pilcher's novel centers on David  Corstorphine who is mourning over the death of his wife, Rachel.  Realizing  he is no good to himself at home in Scotland, David embarks on a journey to  America where he finds a job as a gardner for a family on Long Island.  It  is here that David begins to put the pieces of his life and family together  with the help of his new found American family.  The past and present merge  together like the newly planted seed which blooms to a colorful rose.  Mr.  Pilcher executes his prose with the utmost clarity and precision creating a  well-paced, meaningful novel.  Talent does run in the Pilcher household and  we can all eagerly awaith Mr. Pilcher's next novel.	1999-03-22
US	52954748	R2P94EFWOJ3SOA	0385493800	934400771	The Testament	Books	3	0	0	N	N	A new adventure for John Grisham	One has to admire a writer who will veer away from the usual topics explored in his or her writing and tackle a new arena.  And, in this regard, Mr.Grisham is to be applauded.  Gone, is his typical disenchanted  lawyer working for a big corporate firm who, in the end, leaves his high  paying career frustrated over the legal system.  Instead, Mr. Grisham  presents us with a Brazilian adventure and while a lawyer is at the center  of this novel, his characteristics are largely different than previous  Grisham lawyers.  The novel begins strongly with Troy Phelan, one of (if  not the most) the richest men in the world preparing his last will and  testament before his death which his children anxiously await the  inheritance.  However, a surprise for Mr. Phelan's family transpires and  the novel now takes on a Brazilian adventure in search of Rachel Lane, a  missionary who has devoted her life to God.  Here is where the novel  faulters.  The journey to Brazil is long, tedious to read and holds little  interest.  For over 250 pages, Mr. Grisham rambles endlessly and, because  this is new territory for him, his writing suffers.  Yet, when the  adventure concludes and we are back in the courtroom, &quot;The  Testament&quot; once again comes alive.  And although we have a lawyer,  Nate O'Reily, who is tired of practicing law - more for his own demons  rather than the injustice of the judiciary system, he is cut from a  different mold than other Grisham lawyers and, in the end, he chooses  something similiar, yet different than other Grisham attorney's.  &quot;The  Testament is a decent read in which spirituality and the faith in God are  explored.  I hope Mr. Grisham continues to tackle new ideas in the future  and, as he becomes more experienced in writing out his realm, one can  anticipate more expierenced, intelligent writing.	1999-03-05
US	52954748	R1G748EJFAOQ3N	0671038230	835489451	Jewel (Oprah's Book Club)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Jewel shines...like a gem	In this day of age, a book endorsed by Oprah is a guaranteed success eventhough the public may deem this unfair that one individual can have so much power.  Yet, time after time, Oprah's selections are both worthwhile  and, in my opinion, needed.  She has again introduced us to an author which  I will continue to read.  In this extrodinary novel by Bret Lott, the power  of love and devotion to our children and to God are explored.  At 40, Jewel  Hilburn gives birth to her sixth child and soon discovers that there is  something wrong with her daughter, Brenda Kay.  The spiritual voice of  Cathedral (a name which sings the words of God) tells Jewel at the time of  her pregnancy that she is about to bear the greatest burden of God - it is  to be Jewels greatest hardship and challenge.  And though Cathedral's words  may seem menacing and, at best, a punishment for Jewel it is anything but  that.  Instead, Cathedral is telling Jewel she is about to bear the most  special gift from God.  Brenda Kay is severly handicapped and Mr. Lott  traces this family's struggles over 40 years.  &quot;Jewel&quot; is a  testament to all of our families heritage and especially to what a mother  will do for her child.  Mr. Lott's prose is reminiscent of the great  Flannery O'Conner in that the south is detailed in all of its color -  positive and negative.  And though readers may be aghast at the strong  adjetives used one must realize that Mr. Lott is illustrating a time in  history, not a belief.  Towards the conclusion of this novel Cathedral  says, &quot;No God gifts worth anything the grace of a child.&quot;  The  greatest gift of God is the child and, in essence, this is the true jewel.	1999-02-21
US	52954748	R36EKNTGLULR0P	0446521582	775003712	The Honk and Holler Opening Soon	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Small town people, big warm-hearted novel	Billie Letts proves once again that she can evoke genuine human emotions from her small-town characters.  As she did in her first novel, &quot;Where the Heart Is,&quot; Billie Letts allows us to sit in on people we are glad  to know and, by the end, we feel as if we made a few new friends.  Her  novel centers around Caney Paxton, a Vietnam vet, confined to a wheelchair,  who opened a restaurant 10 years ago and has confined himself inside.  A  misunderstanding led to the neon sign outside his establishment to read  &quot;The Honk and Holler Opening Soon.&quot;  &quot;Opening Soon&quot; was  to have been placed below &quot;The Honk and Holler&quot; as to be removed  once the place opened.  Now it is the joke of the town as it is forever a  part of the restaurants name.  Several people become a part of Caney's  life:  Molly O, a long-time friend who helps not only with the restaurant  as a waitress, but as a friend as well.  Vena Take Horse who comes to the  restaurant after fleeing from where she was.  Bui Khanh, a Vietnamese, in  search of a life.  As in &quot;Where The Heart Is&quot; Billie Letts  chooses interesting names for her characters which immediately draw you in  to their being.  Added to these characters are the regulars who frequent  &quot;The Honk and Holler&quot; to eat and gossip.This novel is a wonderful  work of art as Ms. Letts shows us that there are good, caring people out  there eventhough one may feel that no one cares and that nothing is going  right.  And, after reading Ms. Letts's novel, we seem to walk away feeling  more purposeful about ourselves.  Another successful endeavor by Ms. Letts  and hopefully another one will follow shortly.	1999-02-13
US	52954748	R3OBQWDTEXZUQF	0609603094	65494243	The Jewels of Tessa Kent	Books	3	4	6	N	N	A enjoyable novel about mother-daughter relationships.	For years, I have maintained the belief that novels written purely for entertainment value only are worthwhile - they serve, if you will, as an intermezzo to our reading of more literate, thought-provoking works.  From  nobel prize-winning Toni Morrison to the prolific intellegience of Joyce  Carol Oates or our classic writers of yester-year such as Dickens and  Thackery.  Yet we have the likes of Steel, Susann and Krantz - all of whom  display the ability to entertain and some, yes, with an aptitude for  writing.  Then why do I feel somewhat embarrassed when I take a Steel or  Krantz novel up to the register for purchase?  One doesn't want to admit to  reading such books but here we are, we read.  And as much as we do not want  to like them we keep turning the pages to find out what happens.  Judith  Krantz's &quot;The Jewels of Tessa Kent&quot; is such a novel.  I kept  wanting to know what happens from the world of Ms. Krantz who I believe is  a competent,decent writer - better then most in her literary genre.  Ms.  Krantz's novel focuses on Tessa Kent who at 14 gives birth to a daughter,  Maggie.  A disgrace to her religious parents and too young to be a mother,  Tess's parents raise the child as their own leading others to believe that  Maggie is Tessa's sister.  The secret is maintained as Tessa enters the  film industry becoming a major star.  Tessa marries, never claiming Maggie  as her daughter and, as events unforld, Tessa realizes that her lie must be  turned into a truth.  &quot;The Jewels of Tessa Kent&quot; is clearly a  novel dealing with mothers and daughters and of reconciliation.   Reconciliation of past, present and of family relationships.  The novel  fails only when Ms. Krantz decides to detail sexual encounters her  characters have.  I may sound prudish but I'm not.  This novel has too much  of a serious tone to cheeze it up by putting in sex, which is poorly  written in an otherwise well-written novel, to please a mass marketed  audience.  Nevertheless, I recommend this novel and hope that Ms.Krantz in  her next novel eliminates the overt scenes of sex if she is tackling a  serious subject matter.  &quot;The Jewels of Tessa Kent&quot; is  entertaining, emotional and a nice after dinner treat.	1999-01-18
US	52954748	R1GSMDX78XV14P	0375402632	414359390	Reservation Road	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Grief, despair and redemption after the loss of a child	This is a book of unmitagated brillance leaving the reader drained of emotion; yet, with an elation over having experienced Mr. Schwartz's &quot;Reservation Road.&quot;  Told in altering narrative voices of Ethan,  the father, Grace, the wife, and Dwight, the man resposible for the death  of Josh - Ethan and Grace's son.  &quot;Reservation Road&quot; takes on a  emotional journey of a family coping with their child's death and the man  who accidently killed him in a hit-and-run accident.  Dwight is never  erased of guilt; yet, he never confesses.  He flees the accident - his son  sleeping in the back seat - and eventually emotionally disappears as his  guilt empowers his being.  Grace and Ethan emotionally disappear as they go  through the stages of grief trying to recover.  Thee result is a novel  steeped with moral insight and filled with emotional complexities.  A  thriller to some degree - will Dwight ever be found out? - but a treatise  as well on a family's eventual road to redemption.  Mr. Schwartz is a  novelist with extreme knowledge in the human psyche and should be applauded  for his use of language, emotion and talent in this book about a crises  which should have never happened.	1999-01-02
US	52954748	R3UYHKVJ42DL24	0446672211	17564972	Where the Heart Is	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Home is where the heart is	How fortunate for us readers to have Billie Letts' novel, &quot;Where The Heart Is.&quot;  A novel which shows us that home is not necessarily the place where you were born in.  Home is the place where you find people who  are caring.  People who are loving.  people who are nuturing.  Home is  where you find your heart.  The engaging voice of Ms. Lett's main  character, Novalee Nation, is left stranded at a Wal-Mart by her  down-and-out boyfriend, Willy Jack.  Pregnant and broke, Novalee finds  herself living in the department store where upon she meets several  interesting small-town residents:  Sister Husband, the blue-haired  alcoholic who welcomes new residents by handing out verses of the Bible and  explains to Novalee the novels most important message - &quot;Home gives  you something no other place can... your history... home is where your  history begins.&quot;  Moses Whitecotten who explains that when choosing a  name for your child make sure it has a strong name - &quot;You're gonna  die.  But your name's not.  No.&quot;  Forney Hull, the town libraian, who  hides his shyness behind books.  And Lexie Coop who teaches Novalee about  the qualities she has but does not accept.  Billie Letts puts human faces  on small town individuals and gives us a fresh approach on the goodness and  kindness there is that we sometimes lose sight of.  This novel shows that  good things happen to good people and bad things happen to bad people.  The  addage that you get what you put out is evident in Ms. Letts's novel.  This  is the perfect holiday novel and so appropriate of Oprah to select this as  her Christmas selection.  Many may not agree with me; however, I remain  firm that Oprah consistantly chooses novels of worth-while quality and  exposes us (at least this reader) to novels we may not ordinarily purchase.   A wonderful novel of home, healing and love by a writer of enormous  talent.  Ms. Letts's other novel, &quot;The Honk and Holler Opening  Soon&quot; is one which I will look forward to in reading and enjoying.	1998-12-26
US	52954748	R3VZKL2Y6BYHHI	0385315090	328191774	Mirror Image	Books	2	4	5	N	N	A reflection of the soul	I have written several comments for Amazon.Com. regarding novels by Ms.Steel which I have read.  Each time I have admitted that her books are enjoyable to me as they offer a nice diversion from the many serious,  well-written novels by other novelists.  I think of Danielle Steel as a  novelist I like to read in-between tackling more challenging ones - like  when one wants to watch a TV movie.  In &quot;Mirror Image&quot; I have to  admit I was pleased with the ending for it wasn't wrapped up in a nicely  neat fairy-tale ending.  I hope Ms. Steel continues to write more realistic  conclusions.  However, much of &quot;Mirror Image&quot; was disappointing.   The story of Olivia and Victoria, two identical, mirror image twins, with  two very different personalities takes a long time to progress.  Victoria  scandalizes the family by having an affair with a married man and her  father, in order to rectify the family name, forces her to marry a man she  does not love, but whom her twin sister loves.  Much of what follows is  predictable and it is not until Victoria goes to Europe to help with the  war that &quot;Mirror Image&quot; becomes interesting.  Ms. Steel is not a  great writer; therefore, it is her story-telling capabilities which sets  her apart from other romance writers and which always keeps this reader  enthralled.  Unfortunately, &quot;Mirror Image&quot; did not move - it just  coasts along.  Not one of Ms. Steel's best efforts but, as I said before, I  hope she continues writing endings like this one.	1998-12-09
US	52954748	R3AK1AOOTNQD4B	060960497X	930468436	Midwives: A Novel	Books	5	1	1	N	N	The joy of birth turned tragic.	Oprah, once again, demonstrates her ability to choose novels that are well-written and are worthy for the public to take notice.  More then a gripping, intense courtroom drama, &quot;Midwives&quot; is a multi-layered  novel combining a girls coming-of-age story and that of the issue of  home-births versus hospital births of midwives versus ob-gyn's.  Whatever  one may think of the main character, Sibyl Danforth and the trial that  ensues over the death of Charollete Bedford, the fact remains that  childbirth is a choice between the parents not society.  Any human in their  right mind would question their judgement, as does Sibyl Danforth and  unfortunately tragic situations occur.  Mr. Bohjalian creates intense drama  when showing us both sides of the issue and certainly opens the floor for  discussion.  I especially enjoyed his narrative and the voice of 14 year  old Connie.  Her story is just as absorbing as Sibyl's not only in her  development into adulthood but in her keen observations as it relates to  the trial and life.  I look forward to the next novel by Chris Bohjalian.	1998-11-27
US	52954748	R2G06S39ZQLTZ9	0385333951	870989999	Tara Road	Books	5	5	6	N	N	A big, wonderful old-fashioned read	I purchased this book from Amazon.co.uk and what a wonderful treat.  Reading Maeve Binchy has always been like drinking hot chocolate on a snowy winters day - she has a way of soothing the soul, especially when ones soul  is in need.  &quot;Tara Road&quot; is a novel to savor and cherish - I  simply could not put it down, nor did I want it to end.  As far as I am  concerned it could have gone on for another 400 pages.  Ms. Binchy tells  the story of ordinary people both in Ireland and in the United States who  experience the trial and tribulations we all experience whether it be a  troubled marrriage or a family crises.  She treats all her characters with  sensitivity and the dialogue her characters speak are never haphazard.  And  just like life, Ms. Binchy's characters do not solve their situations in a  nicely, neat resolution.  Instead, Ms.Binchy shows us the power we humans  have to cope, to grow and to learn.  And in the end, Ms. Binchy gives us  all hope.  This book will not be published in the U.S. until March.  Treat  yourself now and buy this book from Amazon.co.uk.  You will not be sorry as  this is one of the best novels this year.	1998-11-18
US	52954748	R26B9QT1UEFI11	0879518944	937718061	The Stillest Day: A Novel	Books	5	14	14	N	N	A masterpiece - but please explain it to me!	I am speechless.  Speechless because this novel is written with such  brillance and intellect that few writers can achieve such a feat.   Speechless, too, because even though I consider myself a good reader I do  not think I understood the ending of this novel.  I closed the book saying,  &quot;what happened?&quot;  After re-reading the final 10 pages 3 times I  feel I have a grasp of 90% of what the author was illustrating with her  characters; yet, I'm still perplexed by the remaining 10%.  I cannot  divulge too much of what I do not understand for fear that I may ruin it  for other readers.  I only hope that other readers who partake in this  novel may respond as to the conclusions they draw upon its ending.  The  first half of this novel tells the story of Bethesda Barnet, an unmarried  artist and teacher living a life of routiness.  She takes care of her  invalid mother, paints and teaches day after day after day.  It is not  until she lays her eyes upon Mathew Pearson that her life becomes a sea of  obsession.  Bethesda uses her artistic abilities to obsessively paint  Mathew on mirrors.  Ms. Hart brillantly weaves the reflections life and art  have on the soul; and, in essence, this theory becomes the heart and soul  of &quot;The Stillest Day.&quot;  And, after a major event occurs, which  one may call courageous or violent, Bethesda's life is severely changes.   And, thus, we enter into the second portion of this novel which examines  Bethesda's life and state of mind.  Often times, it seems like Ms. Hart  becomes overly dramatic in her story-telling; yet, when one considers  gothic pieces of literature, Ms. Hart seems justified.  Ms. Hart display  much of how I find truly gifted English novelists to be - sparse language  steeped with complexities.  One must read in-between the lines to  understand Ms. Hart's writing.  And though I did not understand this novel  entirely, I can appreciate the brillance.  One will always look at a major  traumatic event in one's life as &quot;The Stillest Day.&quot;  This is a  difficult novel to read but I think one which people should be exposed to.   Please, I hope someone out there will explain to me the final 2 scenes of  this novel.	1998-10-16
US	52954748	R2AAVKW9AFEB2T	0395905303	185953122	The Long Falling	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Keith Ridgway emerges as a prominent artist	Keith Ridgway tackels serious moral dilemma's in his finely crafted first  novel, &quot;The Long Falling.&quot;  Told primarily through the voices of  mother and son, Mr. Ridgeway explores, in each of them, the bonds that link  them together and the struggles each must encounter for their actions not  only with themselves but with each other as well.  Grace is brought up in a  traumatic family enviorment losing in many respects her religion and  identity only to enter into a destructive marriage.  In an act of  desperation, Grace murdeers her husband.  &quot;I wanted to be free of him,  and so I did it, but I'm tied to him now like I never was,&quot; says  Grace.  &quot;I wanted to spit him out and I swallowed him instead.&quot;   Martin loves his mother very much but leaves home after he tells his  parents he is gay and is met with disapproval by his father who is  unwilling to accept his homosexuality.  Martin, like his mother, has his  demons which he must face.  Grace stays with her son, Martin after her  murderous act and although Grace's moral dilemma haunts her since the  committed act, Martin's moral dilemma's begin once he learns what his  mother has done.  Masterfully, Ridgway intertwines this story with an  actual case in Ireland involving a unamed 14 year old girl named X.  The  government would not allow her to go to England and get an abortion as a  result from a rape.  On the one hand we are presented with the moral  ambiguities of allowing an unborn child to die and conversly we are  presented with the moral ambiguities of Grace's act of violence as well as  Martin's decision how to proceed with his mother.  Does Martin keep quiet?   Does he turn his mother in?  Can he understand his mothers behavior given  the abusiveness of his father?  Even Martin's issues with his Dad are  tumultous.  These moral dilemma's are the heart of &quot;The Long  Falling.&quot;  And as we see Grace's descent into the long falling, Martin  is right behind her.  Other characters play prominently as well - Martin's  lover, Henry and Mrs. Talbot, the woman who assists in hiding Grace from  the authorities.  &quot;The Long Falling&quot; is a multi-layered, complex  novel told in simple, although sometimes disjointed, clean prose.  Ridgway  chooses his words and images carefully and gives us insight into the  complexities of morality and the bonds of love which always binds us with  the past, present and future.  This is a difficult book to read, but well  woth reading.	1998-10-01
US	52954748	R10YV3HPOY21W1	039590871X	852870338	The Beginning of Spring	Books	3	13	20	N	N	Russia and its effects on her people	I wanted to like &quot;The Beginning of Spring.&quot;  Infact, I wanted to  love it.  After all, Penelope Fitzgerald is one of the finest writers we  have today.  She writes precisely and succintly which is difficult  considering the complexities of her characters and topics.  However, what I  find lacking in &quot;The Beginning of Spring&quot; is an interesting story  line.  When Ms. Fitzgerald tells the story of Frank Reid and his wife  Nellie who suddenly leaves one day without returning she presents us with  an interesting premise.  How Frank copes with this loss and measures he  must undertake to raise his children is well accompolished by Ms.  Fitzgerald.  It is amazing to me the clarity that Ms. Fitzgerald has in the  human condition and the psychological process we go through to cope.  However, the other major story line about Frank's business and the  political upheavel of Russia seems laborious.  I lost interest in her  discussions about Russia's communism and the effects it has on Frank's  business - too much time appeared to be spent detailing the Russian  society.  Perhpas it is just me, but unlike &quot;The Blue Flower,&quot; a  magnificent piece of literature which focused more directly on the  characters, &quot;The Beginning of Spring&quot;  is more of a statement  about Russia and the times which left me unsatisfied.  I have to give this  novel a good rating, however, as Ms. Fitzgerald's writing is nothing short  of perfection.  I will continue to read her works.	1998-10-01
US	52954748	R1WTBFDZXQKO7M	0385306024	233589845	Accident	Books	3	6	9	N	N	Tragically written, yet a decent story nevertheless	As a man, Danielle Steel may appear to be somewhat of a mystery to other  male readers; however, for me, she offers a nice diversion from other  novels which are more literary and intricate.  Ms. Steel usually offers a  nice easy story told simply and is readable in a relatively short period of  time.  And while I have only read a  handful of Ms. Steel's works, i.e.  &quot;Zoya,&quot; &quot;Jewels,&quot; &quot;The Ranch,&quot; and &quot;The  Ghost&quot; they have all had interesting characters and plot developments.   &quot;Accident&quot; falls short on both counts offering, at best, a  mindless read.  'Accident&quot; tells the story of Allyson, a teen-age girl  who tragically ends up in a car accident while on a date with a older high  school boy, her best friend Chole and her date.  Both Allyson and Chole lie  to their parents about going on this date as to not be met with disapproval  so the shock of the deception as well as the accident is enormous. Allyson  ends up in a coma resulting from the accident and Ms. Steel depicts not  only on how the accident changes the life of Allyson but changes the life  of her mother, Page and her marriage as well.  There are no surprises here  and the end is predictable almost from the beginning.  More troubling then  the precdictability of the story, though, is the writing.  Although one  does not read Danielle Steel for her prose one should not have to be  subjected to the innumerable sentences beginning with the word,  &quot;but.&quot;  This is plain sloppiness and eventhough Ms. Steel writes  for the masses, better judgement should be used.  I like Danielle Steel and  I will continue to read her as she offers a different slice of the pie from  other authors out there; and, I enjoy every now and again just sitting back  and reading a good story.  Unfortunately, &quot;Accident&quot; only offers  an uneventful story line with characters we really do not care about using,  on top of that, poor writing.	1998-09-27
US	52954748	R278EXM7NO8H9X	0151003602	235106446	The Odd Sea	Books	4	0	2	N	N	A gripping, intense account of a family's loss	Frederick Reiken makes an auspicious debut with his novel, &quot;The Odd  Sea.&quot;  Told through the eyes of an adolescent boy, &quot;The Odd  Sea&quot; takes its name from Homer's &quot;The Oddessy&quot; which  chronicals one mans journey from being lost to returning home.  In  &quot;The Odd Sea,&quot; Mr. Reiken chronicals a family lost by the  occurrance of a tragedy and the means they must travel to regain some sort  of redemption.  In this case, &quot;The Od Sea&quot; refers to a place  where people physically and emotionally disappear.  Physically, &quot;The  Odd Sea&quot; tells the story of Ethan who suddenly disappears one day.   Emotionally, the family disappears in a sea of despair as they try to cope  with continuing on with their lives.  However, disappearing in ones despair  impedes the necessity of growth and as for Philip, the narrator, he must  not only cope with his brothers disappearance but with the hardships of  adolesence as well.  One's heart breaks for Philip as he endlessly searches  for his brother only to be relieved when he doesn't find him as he believes  this is a good sign that his brother will be found.  Through Mr. Reiken's  succinct and intelligent prose the sense of life and loss are magnificently  displayed.  His thoughts and images are told in precision and one is  reminded of the british novelist, Penelope Fitzgerald.  It is quite a feat  to consolodate the themes Mr. Reiken tackels in a mere 201 pages.   &quot;The Od Sea&quot; is at once a tender heart-filled story that is also  disturbing which lingers on in ones mind.  Mr. Reiken's future novels will  be eagerly anticipated.	1998-09-12
US	52954748	R2PHAK10VJU5CE	0688162827	984529165	Tell Me Your Dreams	Books	5	11	11	N	N	Sidney Sheldon is back after a long hiatus	For years, Sidney Sheldon has entertained us with his masterful  story-telling.  From &quot;The Other Side of Midnight,&quot; to &quot;A  Stranger in the Mirror,&quot; &quot;Bloodline,&quot; &quot;Rage of  Angels,&quot; &quot;Master of the Game,&quot; &quot;If Tomorrow  Comes,&quot; and &quot;Memories of Midnight.&quot;  However, then Mr.  Sheldon's novel began to faulter.  His stories were weak, often sketchy and  his characters lacked any substantial depth - all of which culminated in  last years novel, &quot;The Best Laid Plans&quot; which appeared to show  Mr. Sheldon as a writer that only cared about selling books because of his  name as that novel showed no character development and interjected surprise  elements purely for shock value which had nothing to do with the story.  It  is with great enthusiasm that I can say Mr. Sheldon is back with,  &quot;Tell Me Your Dreams.&quot;  This novel tells the story of 3 women -  Ashley, Toni and Alette - all of whom are suspected of committing a series  of brutal murders.  As their stories are told, the truths begin to unfold  resulting in a suspensful, engrossing read.  The pages rapidly turn while  the heat beats quickly.  This is vintage Mr. Sheldon as he shows us he can  create well-developed characters and surprising plot developments.  Once  again I am looking forward to the next Sidney Sheldon novel and I am glad  to be able to say he is &quot;the master of the game.&quot;	1998-08-30
US	52954748	R1IBI6XHQ3EGA3	0399144048	381696390	Firebird	Books	4	3	4	N	N	A well crafted story of spiritual love	In &quot;Firebird&quot; Janice Graham provides us with a different kind of  love story - one which involves love in both a physical and spiritual  sense.  Implausible?  Not if one accepts that life is just not about the  physical or concrete, but that our core is seperate from the physical skin  we are encased in.  Ms. Graham is well equipped to deal with such an issue  and experiencing her novel is, indeed, experiencing God and the soul he  creates.  &quot;Firebird&quot; tells the story of Ethan Brown, a small town  lawyer with stronger ties to being a rancher.  Engaged to Katie Anne he has  doubts about her and their marriage.  Attending the funeral of her mother,  Annette Zeldin returns home and, in trying to settle her mothers estate,  she meets Ethan Brown.  The attraction is strong and the two fall in love  and begin a passionate affair. Ethan breaks off his engagement to Katie  Anne; however, she quickly schemes to get him back and in doing so Ethan  marries the woman he does not love.  Tragedy, however, strikes both Annette  and Katie Anne and, as a result, Ethan is torn between the woman he sees as  his wife and the being which lies underneath.  Sounds confusing but it is  not when the reader reads this novel.  There is much promise to this first  time novelist and I look forward to future novels.  The reason I did not  rate this the highest score possible is that I would have liked Ms.  Graham's prose to be a little more intricate - this book reads a liitle to  simple - not that simple is bad; however, the material Ms. Graham tackles  calls for more intricate, thought-provoking writing.  Still, it is a  wonderful read and Ms. Graham captures both the romance novel and serious  fiction in one nice package.	1998-08-26
US	52954748	R1SBNI08ATJTJB	0375501371	685444613	A Widow for One Year: A Novel	Books	5	0	0	N	N	A magnificent exploration of grief, love and family	John Irving's &quot;A Widow for One Year,&quot; perhaps his best work since &quot;The World According to Garp&quot; 20 years ago, concerns itself with familar John Irving territory - a dysfunctional family caught in a sea of grief resulting from a terrible tragedy.  Anyone familar with John Irving knows that dysfunctional families is Irvings forte and &quot;A Widow for One Year&quot; demonstrates, without a doubt, that Mr. Irving may  have no equal when writing stories of this nature.  There are many levels to this novel, none of which can be appropriately discussed for this review.  Ruth is the central character in Mr. Irving's novel.  We are introduced to her at age 4 and continue on with her until Ruth is in her 40's.  Ruth's story centers around her mother, Marion, who abandons her and her father at age 4 - Marion cannot cope with the tragic death of her 2 sons as well as the unhealthy relationship she has with Ted, her husband.  Ruth, Ted and Marion, as a unit, wer! e dysfunctional.  With Marion gone, Ted and Ruth are dysfunctional.  And, as each get older, both Ruth and Ted try to manage with their own demons and dysfunctions.  The sight alone of Ruth, at age 4, witnessing her mother having sex with the assistant her father hired to help him is enough to leave Ruth scarred.  Interestingly, the novel focuses not only on Ruth, but also the assistant, Eddie and the father Ted - all of whom become writers.  Infact, all the characters in this work are writers which makes this work highly personal.  There is an interesting passage when Mr. Irving talks about imagination versus reality - can a writer imagine what is real?  This alone could be discussed at great length and it is just one of the many areas which Mr. Irving explores that result from his personal encounters.  Perhaps that is why &quot;A Widow for One Year&quot; is extraordinary  - it appears not only highly personal but tackels an arena Mr. Irving knows well.  Perhaps the one flaw ! in this work may be the ending which appeared to be too exp! ected, too easy.  Nevertheless, this book should be a definite candidate for the National Book Award.  Brillantly written and conceived, Mr. Irving writes about issues to be discussd amoung scholars and writers for years - perhaps placing this book in what one may call, &quot;the classics.&quot;	1998-08-08
US	52954748	RH8U3H77BYCMY	0670880728	738261988	Bridget Jones's Diary	Books	2	0	2	N	N	Bridget...Oh, Bridget!	Hours spend reading novel (4).  Cigaretts smoked 12 (one after each months diary entry). Weight: 140 (smoked instead of ate out of frustration).<br />8:00 p.m.  Writing review for Amazon. Com. 8:01 p.m.  Wondering what to say about Bridget. 8:02 p.m.  Everyone loves Bridget Jones.  Everyone but, perhaps, me.  Is it because I am a male that I find Bridget rather innocuous?  Or is it because I feel that author, Helen Fielding, chose to write not about the perils of a young single British woman but created rather yet another male-bashing story told by a rather vacuous woman. 8:03 p.m.  I don't mean to say that Bridget is an air-head.  However some of the situations she becomes involved with in her relationships with men deserve to end up the way they do and Bridget should not complain. 8:15 p.m.  When I began this book I laughed until I almost cried.  Unfortunately the laughter, for me, disappeared.  Bridget Jones's Diary is a wonderfully inventive idea.  It is novel, kitch and cute.  It is appearent that Ms. Fielding has a funny sense of humor.  A diary-like format for a book is most clever.  Why couldn't Bridget Jones have been a woman with more substance? 8:30 p.m.  Woman love this book and buy it as fast as the publisher can print it. 8:31 p.m.  Men:  Think, before purchasing.	1998-07-09
US	52954748	R1UIMXIP4N7RLM	0679456937	610660223	The Inn at Lake Devine: A Novel	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Jewish versus Gentile - a love story	As a society we are divided by class, religion and color.  Whenever we try to intermingle any of these differences in personal relationships it is, often times, met with disapproving attitudes by others.  And eventhough we may be reminded, justifiably so, by the holocaust or by slavery our nation still discriminates, still judges.  Elinor Lipman in her novel, &quot;The Inn at Lake Devine&quot; writes with great wit and humor about the great divide between Jews and Gentiles.  Ms. Lipman's story centers around a hotel in Vermont in the 60's that flatly states they do not accept Jews as guests.  The main character, Natalie Marx, challenges the hotels policy and after meeting a gentile friend at summer camp, whose family spends each summer at the Inn, invites herself to vacation there with her friends family (as that is the only way she can &quot;legally&quot; get into the Inn).  Natalie's eyes are widened even further after witnessing the owners and their family during that vacation.  Years later she returns to the Inn to attend the wedding of her summer camp friend where unforeseen circustances occur and relationships develope between Natalie and the innkeepers 2 sons. Interestingly, Ms. Lipman takes the action to the Catskills, where the tables are now turned as the Jews talk about the Gentiles.  All of this is done with great style and wit by Ms. Lipman and she never judges anyone so that we dislike them.  Instead, Ms. Lipman allows us to observe the inner-workings of our society and how we, as a whole, can improve all our lives together.  What happens to Natalie, the owners 2 sons and the Inn will have to be discovered by the reader.  In the meantime, buy Ms. Lipman's novel - she addressess a subject worth writing about and delivers it humorously and professionally.	1998-07-05
US	52954748	R3RS8MZ1TCI3Z8	0440203856	269847849	Zoya	Books	5	14	15	N	N	A wonderful entertaining journey	I hate to admit it, but I like Danielle Steel.  Sure, we can criticize her prose which can be downright silly but no one can argue the fact that she is a professional when it comes to story-telling.  Her novels read like epic screenplays and readers are taken to worlds far away with stories about characters which are moving and keep the pages turning.  I have read only 5 of Ms. Steel's novels but &quot;Zoya,&quot; to date, is the best.  &quot;Zoya&quot; is the story of a Russian girl who flees her Russian homeland with her grandmother during the revoloution.  She goes to Paris where her dreams of being a dancer are fulfilled and romance enters her life.  The novel moves from Paris to New York where we are allowed to watch Zoya for 80 years.  Ms. Steel brings to life all the feelings of Russia and romance eventhough, as we said, they may not be articulated well.  This reader felt all the tears, laughter and joy Zoya experienced throughout her lifetime.  Novels can either teach or entertain - so what if there is no lesson to be learned from the novels Danielle Steel writes?  I can't think of too many people who can come up with stories like she can - so hats off to Ms. Steel!	1998-06-28
US	52954748	REL7RAAHIMS7N	0446519790	159831924	Unspeakable	Books	1	1	1	N	N	&quot;unspeakable&quot; is not worth talking about	Sandra Brown's previous 3 novels (&quot;The Witness,&quot;   &quot;Exclusive&quot; and &quot;Fat Tuesday&quot;) have all been intelligent, well-crafted stories of suspense while also employing a sophisticated usuage of prose.  It is with great shock that Ms. Brown has come up with this new novel which is, quite frankly, an embarrassment both to the author and reader.  The writing here, immature at best, is appalling.  To reduce one's intelligence by using adjetives  such as &quot;doofus&quot; to describe a character is inexcusable.  Added to poor prose is a worse story - one that holds as much interest as a leaky faucet.  Everything combined makes &quot;Unspeakable&quot;  virtually unreadable.  We are all allowed to make mistakes and to learn from them.  Let's hope Ms. Brown has learned from this unfortunate endeavor.	1998-06-22
US	52954748	R1V2W9R8J2RWD8	0670879738	222694972	Best of Friends	Books	4	1	1	N	N	A quiet novel about friends and family	Having never read Joanna Trollope before, I had no idea on her writing style or sense of story-telling.  However, after having just completed, &quot;The Best of friends&quot; Joanna Trollope illustrates a keen observation on the complexities of love and friendship.  This novel focuses on the lives of two friends, each married to other people, whom after some eventful circustances begin an affair.  The result of this relationship is quietly told by Ms. Trollope who carefully allows us to observe each character without making judgements on whether their behavior is justified or not.  What we are left here is a novel that shows us the effects of what happens when friends take a leap into being lovers and what effects this relationship takes upon family members and children.  Joanna Trollope, a #1 best-selling novelist in England, writes with the aura associated with the British - quiet, dignified, restrained, and in the end, ulitamtely satisfying.	1998-06-16
US	52954748	R3SVX0U2R5QJ82	0385316895	215252881	Legacy of Silence	Books	5	12	14	N	N	Belva Plain has done it again!	Belva Plain has crafted a splendidly stunning story in her novel, &quot;Legacy of Silence,&quot; which leaves one begging for more.  Not since Sidney Sheldon's &quot;The Other Side of Midnight&quot; have I encountered a story that I could not put down.  It has all the ingredients a family saga needs:  Two strong woman characters, a plot that continually moves along and unfolds and a great amount of suspense which finally explodes.  To reveal the plot in any great detail would be a mistake.  &quot;Legacy of Silence&quot; is about deceit, lies and the means in which one can control the history of ones family.  The characters of Caroline and Lore will remain with the reader long after the last page has been read.  The New York Times once said of Belva Plain, &quot;She is the queen of family sagas.&quot;  Yes, she is!	1998-06-14
US	52954748	R14SSQM3FZ7RB8	0385299338	472660217	Ghost Country	Books	5	0	1	N	N	A stirring drama of love, healing and spirituality	Sara Paretsky's &quot;Ghost Country&quot; is one of those rare novels that enables one to reexamine their lives and look at the world in, perhaps, a different manner.  Simply stated:  this is a novel readers beg and hope for.  Using the streets of Chicago's homeless as a backdrop for her novel, Ms. Paretsky tells the story of 3 women troubled by their past searching to find their existance for the future.  Each, should we say, have lived in the real world before ending up homeless and it is one woman who claims to have seen the Virgin Mary's blood seeping through a wall below a hotel which begins to arouse controversy not only for the homeless but for the city as well.  It is not until a mysterious woman, known as Starr, appears who eventually begins the process of changing these women's lives as well as the nation.  In Starr, Ms. Paretsky has created a Jesus-like character - Starr's presence creates a &quot;star&quot; of light in an otherwise dark enviorment.  She seems to create miracles and, as in the Bible, their are believers and non-believers.  Her life appears to be as a prophet as her teachings enable these woman to look at themselves and heal.  The world of Opera, homelessness and the Bible are richly displayed here and, when all woven together, create an image that perhaps God intended.  &quot;Ghost Country&quot; allows us to reach deep inside and bring to the surface the spirituality we so often forget.  Ms. Paretsky's writing is impressive - it is rich, complex and, most of all, remarkable.  I am reminded of Joyce Carol Oates who writes under the pseudonym of Rosamande Smith.  As Ms. Smith she writes mysterious thrillers illustrating a departure from her complex narratives as Ms. Oates; thus, allowing us to see two different sides of this prolific writer.  Perhaps Ms. Paretsky has also evolved showing us that their is more than the mysteries she has written.  One can only hope that Ms. Paretsky will continue to write novels of this magnitude.	1998-06-07
US	52954748	R12PA6ER0OJJ07	0385490992	454775948	The Street Lawyer	Books	4	0	0	N	N	A somewhat insightful look at homelessness	John Grisham is hard not to like - he knows the law and can tell a darn good story.  It doesn't matter that his novels read more like screenplays or that his language can sometimes be sloppy - one can overlook these instances and relish in the fact that his stories move along with fierce speed.  &quot;The Street Lawyer&quot; is a nice read, perhaps better than the last Grisham novel, &quot;The Partner&quot; and allows us to think about homelessness.  Michael Brock is an up and coming lawyer employed at a prestigious law firm.  He and several other layers are taken hostage by a homeless man who is eventually killed.  After Michael does some investigating he learns that the man who held him hostage was wrongly evicted and, after further digging, Michael discovers his law firm is a major player in this eviction.  Michael receives assistance from a fellow employee of the firm resulting in Michael stealing a file which can damage the law firm.  The rest of the novel focuses on Michael's work with the homeless and the law clinic he now works for as a street lawyer.  There are many similarities in this novel as in previous Grisham novels - the disheartened lawyer, the troubled marriage and the ultimate resolution that all of Grisham's lawyers make.  Still, all in all, &quot;The Street Lawyer&quot; opens our eyes to the world of the homeless and allows us to undersand this tragic situation with a better understanding.  If this novel educates one person on the issue of homelessness and what one can do for them, then Grisham has done his job.  And, I might add:  he has done a fine job, indeed.	1998-05-25
US	52954748	R3O2CKR1TW1A0G	0385316895	215252881	Legacy of Silence	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Belva Plain has done it again!	Belva Plain has crafted a splendidly stunning story in her novel, &quot;Legacy of Silence&quot; which leaves one begging for more.  Not since Sidney Sheldon's &quot;The Other Side of Midnight&quot; have I encountered a story that I could not put down.  It has all the ingredients a family saga needs:  Two strong woman characters, a plot that continually moves along and unfolds and a great amount of suspense which finally explodes.  To reveal the plot in any great detail would be a mistake.  &quot;Legacy of Silence&quot; is about deceit, lies and the means in which one can control the history of ones family.  The characters of Caroline and Lore will remain with the reader long after the last page has been read.  The New York Times once said of Belva Plain, &quot;She is the queen of family sagas&quot;  Yes, she is!	1998-05-01
US	52954748	R1Q3Q7BD6KQZYJ	0375500510	337409677	Black and Blue: A Novel	Books	4	1	1	N	N	A tragic account of abuse	Anna Quindlen's &quot;Black and Blue effectively portrays a woman's experience dealing with the devastating effects of an abusive marriage.  What is marvelous about Ms. Quindlen's perspective in telling this story is that she allows us to go inside the mind of her main character rather than tell a chronological account of what has happened.  No other novel has really explored the mind of a woman's experience with abuse as seen here in &quot;Black and Blue.&quot;  Fran Benedetto escapes her physically abusive husband with her son, Robert.  Relocated from New York to Florida, Fran Benedetto now becomes Beth Crenshaw.  What we deal with now is not only the fear Beth feels that her husband will find her but her fear in finding her identity as well.  A different name, a different look, a different state or residence - these are all the different things Beth must come to terms with.  But can we learn to accept our reality when we feel our identity is lost?  Brillantly, Ms.. Quindlen shows us through the mind of Beth the process one must go through in dealing with such a tragic situation.  I never wanted to refer to a book as an &quot;Oprah book&quot; but I feel it is necessary here.  This is Oprah's April book selection and Oprah consistently chooses well-written, thought-provoking novels.  However, Oprah is fixated on choosing novels dealing with abuse.  Yes, I do think she has a moral obligation to teach the public about abuse and how to get out of it; however, my fear is that she is desenitizing us with this devastating issue.  We are reading so much about this situation that I find myself not reacting to what abuse does.  Reading &quot;Black and Blue&quot; I found myself not caring what happened to Beth and that was a sad state of affairs.  To be fair, Ms. Quindlen wrote an excellent story which should be told - she is a good writer with the correct sense of moral obligation.  I only hope Oprah realizes that there are other issues our society must deal with and pick books with different issues so that!  we, the public, can look at and learn.	1998-04-23
US	52954748	R2LT4NOYADYWQV	039575285X	160792367	The Page Turner	Books	4	2	3	N	N	The Page Turner is a prelude, rather than a symphony	Ever since his first novel, &quot;The Lost Language of Cranes,&quot; David Leavitt has shown to be impressive.  His dialogue is crisp and his narrative passages flow with ease.  Moreover, Mr. Leavitt portrays gay relationships better than any other novelist I know because he writes about relationships with compassion and understanding - the fact of ones sexuality is not the issue.  And yet when he depicts the sensuality and sexuality between two men it is perhaps with the most engrossing use of language this reader has come across.  It is with this great praise that I reluctantly have to say his latest novel, &quot;The Page Turner&quot; is disappointing.  This coming-of-age novel about relationships, sexuality and career choices shows great promise; however, doesn't go anywhere.  Paul Porterfield has aspirations of being a concert pianist.  At a recital of his greatest admirer, Richard Kennington, he is his page turner.  On a vacation with his mother, Paul meets Richard and a love affair begins.  The remainder of the novel depicts their relationship as well as Richard's relationship with Paul's mother and Richard's relationship with his lover, Joseph.  Paul goes through a series of growing up experiences learning that not only are relationships not what one expects but neither is the career one may choose as well.  I enjoyed reading &quot;The Page Turner&quot; but I wish the characters had more substance and the story line a bit more detailed.  However, as a slice of life novel, which I think is Mr. Leavitt's intent, the book is admirable.	1998-04-12
US	52954748	R10OSS9C6EWDUP	0395859972	852870338	The Blue Flower	Books	5	11	11	N	N	A magnificent exploration into the philosophy of life &amp; love	&quot;The Blue Flower&quot; recently won the outer book critics circle award and it is well-deserved.  Eventhough it may be considered a short novel the material presented is enormous.  For such a complicated piece, Ms. Fitzgerald does not waste a single word, nor a single punctuation mark and her thoughts, as complicated as they are, are presented neatly without any extemporaneous circumstances - that, in itself, is masterful.  The novel is based on the life of Fritz Von Hardenberg who later became the great poet and philosopher, Novalis.  Under the guise of his father he is trained to be a businessman.  Studying at the top universities, Fritz realizes his true passion for poetry and philosophy. He meets 12 year old Sophie Von Kuhn on a visit with a friend of his father who he is staying with to study administration for his business career.  Upon meeting Sophie (&quot;in a half-hours time&quot; according to Fritz) she becomes his &quot;true philosophy&quot; and he falls in love.  This relationship may seem peculiar, even wrong.  But in the hands of Penelope Fitzgerald this relationship seems justified.  Sophie represents what the great philosophers teach us thru their writings - she is the guiding spirtual force which leads us to question romance and the search for the meaning of life.  Fritz even engraves Sophie's engagement ring with the inscription &quot;Sophie be my guardian spirit.&quot; Like all great romances, tragedy results not only for their relationship but for them as well.  The title &quot;The Blue Flower&quot; is a story Fritz is writing; he reads his opening chapter to various people.  &quot;What is the meaning?&quot; he asks.  People respond, but is there an answer?  Is Sophie the blue flower? Philosophers extrapulate life and love in trying to find the meaning which governs our existence.  Our lives are subject to questions and interpretaions which often need to revisited.  No doubt, reading of &quot;The Blue Flower&quot; will have to be revisitedto explore further the art of life and love.  Isn't life about interpretation and soul-searching?  Bravo, Ms. Fitzgerald!	1998-04-06
US	52954748	R3N6X6QZTNA39R	0399143130	184894886	Here on Earth	Books	4	2	3	N	N	An obsessive love story resulting in terror	Alice Hoffman's, &quot;Here on Earth&quot; illustrates the tragic results a romantic infatuation can take when acted upon.  March Murray is a woman who, although married, is obsessed with a childhood boy named Hollis.  Disillusioned by this romance she leaves her small town in Massachusetts for California marrying a man also from her hometown.  Never fully being satisfied with her marriage she returns to her hometown with her daughter to attend the funeral of Judith Dale, her housekeeper and eventual caretaker.  Upon her arrival back home, old emotions begin to stir and feelings of a romance that should have never ended, resurface. What happens between March and Hollis is what &quot;Here on Hearth&quot; details.  Alice Hoffman has taken the novel of &quot;Wuthering Heights&quot; by Emily Bronte and updated it for our time.  Even the name of the main character, Hollis, is a derivative of Bronte's Heathcliff - yet &quot;Wuthering Heights&quot; does not have to be read to understand the obsessive romance portrayed here.  One needs to look beyond the surface to fully realize Hoffman's point.  This is not merely a story of a woman trapped by a controlling abusive man.  This is a story about infatuated love versus true love and, here on earth, love is to be looked at from the heart not the mind.  The characters of March's daughter Gwen and March's nephew Hank illustrate Ms. Hoffman's points in detail and it is through them that we see love and humanity.  &quot;Here on Earth&quot; is an interesting and absorbing novel.	1998-03-30
US	52954748	R10CK6PLP21O5X	0312142714	905400373	After Shanghai	Books	5	4	4	N	N	&quot;After Shanghai&quot; is remarkably compelling!	As a reader of many novels, I cannot help but get excited when I finish the last sentance on the last page, close the book and feel that my life is somewhat more enriched by the experience of what I just read.  &quot;After Shanghai&quot; by Alison McLeay achieves this remarkable sensation.  This historical family saga revolves aound Clio - a woman of English descent born in Shanghai, 1910.  Upon her grandfather's death, Clio and her father return to England for the funeral where they remain since the grandfather's will requested Clio's father to run the family shipping business from London with his brother, Clio's uncle.  Clio grows up with her uncles children - Rose and Alice - and we are exposed to several other family members including Stephen Morgan, &quot;the scandelous man of the family.&quot;  As the novel begins, Clio is an elderly woman returning back to Shanghai recalling the people and incidents which have shaped her life.  We learn about Shanghai in the 20's and the 30's - we learn about the beauty and passion Shanghai invites.  We also see the destruction of Shanghai as a culture by the devastation of war and the Japanese.  As Shanghai changes so does Clio and we are taken on a glorious journey of her life.  We see her life in its entirety from childhood thru old age and the comparisons between the cultural circumstances of Shanghai and Clio's life circumstance are symbolically intertwined.  Ms. McLeay is so intelligent in her writing is is almost frightening.  She could have created a mindless family saga - instead she created an engrossing story enhanced by the expertise of her writing.  There can be no denying that Ms. McLeay can write and part of the joy in reading is experiencing the beauty of words and one's use of them.  Her written passages are engrossing, her story compelling.  I stumbled across this novel by accident but you can be sure that this reader will continue to read and search for the novels of Alison McLeay.  A I said before, to readMs. Mcleay and &quot;After Shanghai&quot; is an enriching experience.	1998-03-22
US	52954748	RCO4JDK12ZCY3	0679433740	331831848	Paradise	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Toni Morrison's &quot;Paradise&quot; is astonishing!	Like all of Ms. Morrison's novels, &quot;Paradise&quot; is powerful, complex and brilliant.  What a joy to come across a book which can resonate such power and intensity as this novel achieves.  Ms. Morrison is brilliant in weaving a complex narrative to heights very few writers achieve, but who many desire.  The complexity of &quot;Paradise&quot; is partly due to Ms. Morrison's use of time which is a key element in the construction of her characters.  We are all a product of time - our lives are shaped by past, present and future events.  Therefore to write about onself is chronological order is, perhaps, misleading.  Consequently, Ms. Morrison chooses to illustrate her characters with narrative and dialogue that are not necessarily a part of the precise moment but are elements, nevertheless, that have shaped their behavior, their lives.  As this becomes confusing when reading one soon learns, as the story unfolds, the continuity of the characters.  Equally complex, is the story about Ruby itself- a town steeped in tradition.  A town that wants to maintain order so much so that it becomes dangerous and unhealthy.  A town where male dominence rules over everything, even its progress to move forward.  These are only some of the elements in this incredible work.  Spirtiuality, God and love are also key, here, so aptly told through the four major women in this novel - it is through the women that we see the balance that Ruby can achieve but that the town will not allow. To experience this monumental work is to take a journey - a journey to &quot;Paradise.&quot;	1998-02-24
US	52954748	R1VRT7CMICJ85D	038531695X	467555603	The Ghost	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Danielle Steel's &quot;The Ghost&quot; is spirited	Danielle Steel is not a great writer.  Sometimes, her sentences are poorly structured and it is safe to assume that she will never win a Nobel Prize for literature.  Danielle Steel, however, has an apitude for telling a story  - infact, she is a talented storyteller.  &quot;The Ghost&quot; proves, once again, that Ms. Steel can create a situation and keep it moving like a supersonic jet traveling through the air.  Refreshingly, the main character is a man, Charles Waterston, a forty-one year old architect whose marriage is ending and who has just been relocated from London to New York.  Discouraged by his job in New York he takes a leave of absence and decides to go skiing in Vermont to piece together his life and troubled marriage.  Stranded by a snowstorm he comes across an inn where he becomes friendly with the owner.  After explaining the turmoils of his life, the owner suggests his renting an old house of hers - a chateau which he accepts.  It is here he meets the ghost, Sarah Ferguson, who once inhabited this house.  Subsequently, Charlie finds her journals and now Sarah takes center stage.  We learn about her life in the 1700's and the pain and eventual joy that she encounters.  Through Sarah, Charlie re-evaluates his life, his goals and the journey his life must take.  Danielle Steel creates a fast paced, well-moving story that keeps one turning the pages.  There may be no astounding life messages in Danielle Steel's books but reading her stories is like a movie you can't stop watching.  In this world, sometimes you need a novel that you can just sit back and enjoy the ride.	1998-02-24
US	52954748	R3RESML51P2CBZ	0151002584	75363464	Ingenious Pain	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Ingenious Pain is stylish, yet unrewarding	Historical novels are fascinating to me for they evoke a feeling captured by the use of language and the various locales.  Andrew Miller is remarkably talented in capturing the language and settings of the 1700's. However, there appears to be an essential piece missing from this well-crafted novel - the story of James Dyer, for lack of a better word, is boring and uninteresting.  The beginnings of this story are interesting from the violent nature of his conception, to his early childhood of not speaking and to the symbolic nature of his feeling no pain, yet inflicting this attribute onto others.  The story, though, begins to fold.  His becoming a doctor, his going to Russia to cure Empress Catherine of smallpox and the eventual circumstances that he encounters appeared of little or no interest to this reader.  I found myself enjoying the intellect of the authors writing but found myself bored with what was happening to James and the other characters.  Eventually, I read the last 50 pages of this novel in a hurry to an ending which left me emotionless.  I wish I would have cared for James more but I appreciate the authors intent of mood and style and only wish the story would have been more  captivating.	1998-01-24
US	52954748	R1NUA27ST2810L	0385319800	833361511	Homecoming	Books	3	6	6	N	N	Belva Plain, this time, misses the mark!	I have been an admirer of Belva Plain for many years - her novels are like watching a Sunday television movie on a snowy afternoon.  However, her latest effort, &quot;Homecoming&quot; is a disappointment.  The story is stereotypical and trite:  A well-to-do matriarch gathers her troubled family together at her country estate for a homecoming in hopes all will resolve their family difficulties which include a troubled marriage and a rivalry between 2 brothers.  A tragedy occurs at the home which brings everyone closer together and, like magic, by the end all have resolved their differences.  It is all very neat and clean and, quite frankly, a bit of a disappointment.  &quot;Homecoming&quot; is a small novel, almost a short story - still, I wish the characters were more developed and that their lives contained more than the usual &quot;baggage&quot; we all are used to reading about.  The book is easy to read and can be finished in a few hours and, yes, it is enjoyable to read.  I just wish this book would have been more interesting and not so contrived.  I will continue to read Belva Plain and will await her next work which, hopefully, will be a more in-depth novel for, as I said before, I like to nest on a Sunday afternoon and sink myself in a comforting and soothing story.	1998-01-17
US	52954748	R267YKHD1MAXTS	0385314337	809298830	The Giant's House	Books	5	28	31	N	N	The Giant's House captures the beauty of romance	The Giant's House is a novel written as a romance - a romance being the notion of love between two people which encompasses one's being, one's existence.  The story revolves around two people who suffer from distinct afflicitions - Giantism (an afflicition of the body) and lonliness (an afflication of the spirit).  These 2 people - the giant and lonely librarian - develope a romance which fulfills the body and spirit and through this romance they each attain life's meaning and define their own existence.  Their relationship is special as is this novel.  Ms. McCracken - an ex-librarian herself - writes with meaningful words and a style which encompasses the vitality of romance.  However, Ms. McCracken does not write what one may consider &quot;a romance novel.&quot;  She is not sappy with her words or her notion of romance.  She is, however, true to the human condition of love we all yearn and dream of, no matter what ails us - physically or emotionally.  A National Book Award finalist - this book is much deserved.  We should all read and learn from this book about love, about the individuality of others and, above all, about the human spirituality of romance.	1998-01-11
