US	52954904	R2K1O6K2DWOOP4	0688170870	903507666	Inside Freight Train	Books	4	3	5	N	N	What a cool book!	My son became fascinated with this book around 10 months, and 14 months later, still loves reading it.  Over that time, he has used the book to learn colors (the freight cars are different colors) and things like the items that freight trains carry.  He now loves watching trains from our back porch and knows more than steam engines than a lot of adults. <br />But alas, the book has not held up well due to repeated abuse at the hands of a toddler.  Several patch-up jobs with clear packing tape have given the book a stay of execution.	2005-03-07
US	52954904	RQKN1Q2XWT16	0375415076	268373620	Swimming to Antarctica: Tales of a Long-Distance Swimmer (Alex Awards (Awards))	Books	4	5	6	N	N	A collection of amazing stories	Lynne Cox is certainly a remarkable woman.  A swimmer with a built-in resistance to cold, she has attempted and completed some incredible bodies of water in extreme conditions, all with a positive attitude and a genuinely humble approach to her accomplishments.  Cox is certainly no polished writer - you won't read any flowery prose describing icebergs, currents, sea creatures or waves with metaphors or an abundance of adjectives.  The author is plainspoken and honest, making the book seem like an extended - and completely facinating - conversation over coffee.  <br />I have competed in open-water swimming for a decade in conditions much more favorable than Lynne Cox and tore through this book wanting to know how she crossed each body of water.  For me, it was a page-turner.  Her detailed descriptions of open water swimming and its challenges were right on the mark.<br />But the book left me wanting to know more.  How did the author deal with her personal and family life in the middle of her training and her travels?  What specifically inspired her to complete a certain swim?  The author only briefly touches upon her romance with an Egyptian swimmer and her supportive parents' illness.  I only wish she wrote about the demands swimming placed on her life on dry land.	2004-04-05
US	52954904	R12FFBFFN2WEKM	0520220854	213647520	The Catholic Imagination	Books	4	8	9	N	Y	A provocative, well-argued and readable essay	I've long heard about U. of Chicago sociologist Andrew Greeley but never had the opportunity to read any of his works.  The Catholic Imagination was a very approchable work for the general reader that looks at the Catholic Church's roots in both the divine and the flesh (as opposed to the condemnation of the flesh and worldly things by Reformation Protestants).<br />Greeley bends over backwards not to trumpet the superiority of Catholicism over other denominations or faiths.  He attempts to take the reader on a tour of Catholic iconography and community and explain to Catholics and non-Catholics alike why Catholics are more attached to art, music, architecture, community (over individuality), sexuality and salvation in an imperfect world than other Christian congregations.  <br />He also argues quite eloquently that much of the above aspects of Catholicism are rooted in folk history and the Church's roots in a illiterate, pre-Enlightenment Europe where local traditions held greater sway than detached theological mandates from a distant Rome.  Greeley even touches on this conflict in today's Church, believing that improved communication technologies have resulted in friction between Rome and \\"ordinary\\" Catholics as the Holy See has attempted to tighten its control over local clergy and laity.<br />Again, Greeley aims for the general reader as his audience, not the learned theologian.  That is the target of his book and the ingredients in much of his arguments in The Catholic Imagination.<br />This book would be better served by some more color photos of the artwork Greeley mentions in his book, as I found myself unfamiliar with many of the works of art, films and music listed in the essay.	2003-08-05
US	52954904	R3LR5OQ3RGBC08	0679432477	340719393	Empire Falls	Books	4	4	4	N	N	A complex story about a simple guy	Set in the decaying (and fictional) Maine town of Empire Falls (which is reminiscent of Russo's earlier books set in Mohawk, New York), Russo creats a Dickensian cast of characters and an ambitious story that spans more than a century as history intersects with the present and the future along banks of the Knox River.<BR>As with his earlier works, Russo is a master artist in creating realistic, three-dimensional characters and settings.  After a few pages, you feel like you personally know the characters and can picture every corner of the town of Empire Falls in your head.  It has always been his strongest quality.  This time, Russo takes you inside the minds and hearts of Miles Roby, a modest, decent man who occasionally stalls due to self-doubt but who eventually realizes that he and the entire town have long been held back by a single, powerful individual.<BR>Roby is a fascinating character; in most other books, we would call him boring, but Russo gives us so much information about his past and how he thinks and feels that we see him as more than just a single parent and local restauranteur.  The author also populates Empire Falls with a diverse cast of individuals who challenge Miles along the way - some humorous and others with deadly results.  I found a few faults with the book when Russo would spend a chapter or two following the exploits of a relatively minor character, pulling my gaze away from Miles.  Better editing could knock 100 pages from the book and still keep it an excellent piece of fiction.  However, these isolated vignettes sometimes it made me laugh (Miles' father, Max, seems to be a dead ringer for Sam, Ned Hall's father in Russo's &quot;The Risk Pool.&quot;) and provided a better picture of Miles and the city of Empire Falls.<BR>The book holds your attention enough for you to put it down for long stretches and then dive right back in a few days or weeks later.  I wouldn't have awarded it a Pulitzer Prize, but I enjoyed it immensely and regardit as some of the best fiction I've read in a while.	2002-12-30
US	52954904	R3FC365DXBINWF	158542109X	351608178	The Crossing: The Curious Story of the First Man to Swim the English Channel	Books	4	1	1	N	Y	A glimpse of celebrity in the Victorian era	As an open-water swimmer myself, I was attracted to this book about the famous first crossing by Capt. Webb I've heard about for years.  The author clearly shows that she did her research on failed swims of the past and on how present-day Channel swimmers conquered the Channel between England and France.<br />To Watson's credit, the actual channel crossing is only a minor part of the entire book.  The author looks at Capt. Webb as something more than the first man to swim across the English Channel; she examines him as the Victorian age's first mega-celebrity...think Mickey Mantle meets Michael Jordan at the turn of the century.<br />She meticulously pieces together newspaper reports of the day regarding Webb's exploits after the famous Channel swim, actually building sympathy for Capt. Webb and the hucksters who set him up for swim after swim (and even more ridiculous feats of endurance).<br />I only wish that this book had a biography so I could explore more stories about Capt. Webb and open-water swimming.  However, you don't have to be a swimmer to enjoy this book - Watson clearly markets it to the casual reader, and it's small size makes it perfect for summertime reading.	2002-08-21
US	52954904	REKSHPJYSU7S5	0471145734	147195866	Karski: How One Man Tried to Stop the Holocaust	Books	4	18	18	N	N	An amazing, inspiring life, and an exciting read as well	I first heard about Jan Karski when I read his obituary in the New York Times a few years back. After reading the obituary, I thought that this guy led an exciting and profound life, and that his life story would make a great book and/or movie (Steven Speilberg, are you listening?). That's why I'm glad I found this book.<br />Jan Karski was a young diplomat in Poland when the Germans invaded in 1939. Before the invasion, he seemed to be more interested in the political power struggles of the day rather than the moral and ethical quandaries of war. That soon changed after he was taken prisoner and sent to both Soviet and Nazi prison camps. He spent the war years secretly delivering messages around Europe for the Polish underground, and word of his exploits soon spread among the Allies. He was later sent to Britian and later, the United States, where he became a citizen and lived out the rest of his life.<br />His near-famous quest to relay the horrors of the Holocaust to the skeptical Allies is only one facet of this individual's life. The authors excelled at opening my eyes to the political infighting among various factions of the Polish resistance (politics doesn't die in wartime, it just goes underground, I learned), and they seemed to paint Karski as an individual who became more interested in working for human freedom and dignity than for carving a political legacy for himself in a postwar Poland.<br />Karski's days in Britain got a bit dry in the book; his wartime adventures in occupied Europe and his postwar days at Georgetown University (as the world began to recognize his contributions) held my attention the most.<br />As a bonus, a guide to the many characters Karski dealt with in his life is included in the appendix...a handly tool for keeping track of who's who in this book.	2002-08-21
US	52954904	R2M6MP3SN6DY0	0743406567	588083863	Fargo Rock City: A Heavy Metal Odyssey in Rural North Dakota	Books	3	3	5	N	N	A reformed (?) metalhead looks back on 80s hair metal	The author of Fargo Rock City is only a few years younger than me, and growing up in the 80s when all of my friends were into bands that touted big hair, tight spandex, makeup, and songs about girls, cars and partying, Klosterman's book was a fun flashback to those days.  Images of high school keg parties where Motley Crue and Bon Jovi were the party tunes of choice began to flood my brain.<br />I must admit that other than an Iron Maiden cassette and Def Leppard's \\"Pyromania,\\" I was not much of a metalhead and usually laughed at those bands' depiction of women and obsession with having the proper look and \\"attitude\\" over real musical originality.  But again, growing up in the 80s, you couldn't avoid glam metal.  It was everywhere, and the author of this book reminds you of its dominance of the charts.<br />Klosterman really doesn't go into much detail about life in rural North Dakota in the 80s.  I think the book's title is misleading and may just be a cheap capitalization of the Coen Bros' film Fargo.  The author also does not do a scientific or cultural critique of 80s metal, and that's OK with me.  The book is more of a personal memoir of how 80s metal was played out in his adolescence - drinking, going out with friends, working lousy jobs, etc., and I laughed along with his typical teenage antics and interpretations of the whole metal scene - what girls liked which bands, heavy metal magazines, record shopping, etc.<br />I always wondered what these metalheads did after the depressing nihilism of grunge took over corporate rock in the early 90s.  Metal took itself so seriously on the eve of \\"Smells like Teen Spirit,\\" (think Yngwie J. Malmsteen) could it ever step back and see how silly it really was?  As soon as grunge hit the commercial airwaves, hair metal fans went into hiding, denying their desires to copy the look of Rikki Rocket or Sebastian Bach.<br />Klostermann really waffles with this issue.  Writing the book in 2000, he looks at 80s metal like the hipster music writer he now is.  Back in 1987, he probably thought Husker Du was a Scandinavian dish served with Lutefisk at Christmastime and would have watched as his friends beat the living vinyl out of any nerdy indie record collector in school.  In Fargo Rock City, the author gives the impression that he is older and wiser, and that 80s metal was just another example of his teenage impulsiveness and rash behavior.  I sometimes doubted if any praise he gave 80s metal was genuine, and that he was one of the reformed metalheads who was embarrased of his musical tastes in the 80s and was coming clean with it in the present age.<br />Still, if you grew up in the 80s (or just like to read about a little-mentioned era in rock music), the book will bring you many laughs and some intelligent conversations among friends.	2002-07-15
US	52954904	R2O4EJ2QLQPHL5	0679748172	112575006	Homestead: The Glory and Tragedy of an American Steel Town	Books	5	2	2	N	N	A moving and readable history of a classic steel town	Serrin, a business writer for the NY Times, writes a magnificent book on the history of Homestead, PA, a classic American smokestack town that was once home to US Steel's manufacturing HQ.  Serrin describes the growth of the city in the early industrial age (including the famous Homestead strike in the 19th century), the rise of the labor unions in the early 20th century, its social, cultural and industrial peak in the 1950s, and its decay and near-death in the 1970s & 1980s.<BR>My first trip to Homestead was in 1992 (after reading this book), and I found it to be a desolate, depressing place.  Serrin paints a picture of a more lively, vibrant time in America's economy, and that picture becomes painful when you read about the hemmoraging of Homestead in the 70s and 80s and witness the wholesale abandonment of the city today.  Through it all, he does honor to the working men and women who toiled for US Steel and the industries and socio-cultural organizations that supported them in good times and bad.  I loved that author's conversations with Joe Chiodo and Chiodo's Tavern that once stood next to US Steel and now stands next to a vacant lot (I ate at the restaurant because of this book!).<BR>It's a sad book and one that I will remember for a long time.	2002-07-08
US	52954904	RCVTJ8UQQV7GM	0940159279	768460396	Frank Rizzo	Books	5	8	8	N	N	A look at big-city politics with a larger-than-life mayor	Sal Paolantonio, who used to cover politics for the Philadelphia Inquirer (and who now is a football commentator for ESPN), takes a concise yet comprehensive look at the political life of Frank Rizzo, perhaps the most colorful mayor in Philadelphia history and the archetype of the old-school, white-ethnic political leader who faced a rapidly changing urban America in the 1960s and 70s.<br />Even if you are not familiar with Philadelphia politics, Paolantonio does a wonderful job to paint the political picture of the day and examines the &quot;hows&quot; of Rizzo's mayorality and the &quot;whys.&quot;<br />This book was one of the most enjoyable political biographies I've read.  Pick it up, and you won't put it down until you're done reading it.	2002-04-25
US	52954904	R1C4KF46Z8FDZY	0813523311	748294078	The New American Ghetto	Books	5	9	9	N	N	A moving pictorial of America's abandoned cities	Vergara looks at some major American industrial cities that suffered some horrible disinvestment after World War II. He takes an honest look at the people and buildings in some of America's poorest cities (Camden, Newark, Detroit) and how ugly, cheap, security-conscious and modernistic buildings to serve the ghetto's poor residents have replaced fantastic movie palaces, upscale housing and fading remnants of a wealthier, more egalitarian period in U.S. history.<br />Vergara's prose gets a bit preachy and predictable at times, but the real strength in this book lies in its collection of bleak photos that make you wonder why this nation abandoned its industrial past so quickly and so thoroughly. They speak more than any words can ever do on the plight of America's cities.<br />He shines when he looks at how buildings transform over time - some for better, most for worse. The majority of these photos were taken in the early-1990s, as the crack epidemic was at its peak and the double-digit decline in urban crime was just beginning. With crime down and the urban real estate market up, I view these decade-old photos with a mix of sadness and hope.<br />Vergara's later work, _American Ruins_ does an even better job of looking at how the United States has turned its collective back on its cities. If you read this book, make sure you check out _American Ruins_. They both make Vergara our best chronicler of urban decay.	2002-04-25
US	52954904	R2S5M7QUHKEZWR	1580930565	576818247	American Ruins	Books	5	12	13	N	N	Pictorial essay on the death of America's industrial cities	Vergara is certainly not like your typical civic booster who is touting the gentrification of former slums and the real estate boom that has overrun most US cities in the past two decades. Vergara doesn't directly argue that yuppies and Gen X-ers are good for today's cities. From reading this book, I am assuming that he doesn't like them too much. He likes grimy, but stable, industrial America that earlier generations knew.    However, Vergara is not an urban planner or a civic leader (although I'd like to see him try his hand at each). Vergara's skill is chronicling through pictures the wholesale abandonment of America's great cities. In his introduction, the author realizes that in many cities with a shrunken tax base, it is simply too expensive to rehabilitate architecturally-significant structures, so landlords (usually with the city's blessing), just demolish or abandon the property. For each renovated brownstone downtown, I'm sure that the author can document a dozen abandoned rowhouses or factories on the \\"wrong side\\" of the town.    Call me insensitive, but I was most acutely drawn to Vergara's treatment of abandoned or near-abandoned buildings that were once important to America: the Firemen's Insurance Building in downtown Newark and the Michigan Central RR terminal in Detroit (rather than his examination of the residents of the ghetto as was evidenced in \\"The New American Ghetto\\"). The photo of the modern people mover in Detroit gliding by boarded-up buildings says a lot about urban mismanagement and is hauntingly fully of despair.  If the \\"can do\\" spirit of modern American technology can't save Detroit, what can?    What I found quite unique was that Vergara proposes leaving these buildings to rot, like was done in Rome and Greece. Visitors taken through these ruins would be told that an empty shell of a building once housed an insurance company, a vaudeville theater, or some wealthy merchant and his family. However, as a public employee who has to dealwith these structures for a living, there are some health and safety issues that I feel the author seems to forget (abandoned buildings tend to attract junkies, rats and disease and worse, fall down on people after a while). Maybe he is strictly speaking as an artist, but his ideas are very intriguing.    Vergara is a great photographer who thrives in urban areas. I've worked and/or visited many cities in this book, and what I like best about \\"American Ruins\\" is how he documents the death of the building over a five or ten-year period, mentioning what the building held in its heyday.    \\"American Ruins\\" is a great antidote to those who indiscriminately work to \\"improve\\" cities, either through gentrification or through ugly aesthetic improvements to historical buildings (brickface comes to mind). It's a depressing book, but it stirs the mind and challenges the soul.    As I mentioned, this book is a natural progression from his earlier book, \\"The New American Ghetto,\\" and \\"American Ruins\\" complements his work as a photographer and social critic. I've loved all of his stuff eagerly await more books by this guy every time they are released.    If you liked this book, you would also like \\"A Town Without Steel: Envisioning Homestead,\\" by Judith Schachter Modell & Charlee Brodsky; \\"Homestead: The Glory and Tragedy of an American Steel Town,\\" by William Serrin; and \\"The Destruction of Penn Station,\\" by Peter & Barbara Moore. They all chronicle how this nation has abandoned its industrial cities for a less connected, less public, less community-minded, less responsible, less reliable and more uncertain future.	2002-02-13
US	52954904	RWEV1769K4TM6	1891024051	40929245	The Destruction of Penn Station	Books	5	20	20	N	N	It was like watching someone die day by day	I remember as a kid in the mid-70s taking the train to NYC and having to endure the commuter's nightmare known as \\"modern\\" Penn Station.<br />In the late 80s, I learned what once was on the site of the current MSG/Penn Station monstrosity and became appalled that people could let a beautiful work of art be dismantled and replaced with a horrible building. In the early 1990s, I learned about the 1950s and 1960s and how Americans were obsessed with all things modern and new, rejecting anything with a hint of age or ornament.<br />Moore & Moore take a pictorial look on how the McKim, Mead and White's neoclassical masterpiece was dismantled over a multi-year period in the mid-1960s. While they really don't go into detail on why the old Penn Station was demolished, the spooky, B & W photos tell more than how an architectural gem was demolished. On a deeper level, the photos tell the tale of how an entire city was becoming irrelevant to suburban America and was sinking into massive decline (the years of municipal bankrupcy and burning neighborhoods in the South Bronx are only a few years away).<br />It was a very sad book that gets more depressing with each turn of the page, as more and more of the beauty of the old Penn Station gets stripped away. I guess that was the power of the photographs working on me.<br />Pair this book up with Robert Caro's _The Power Broker_ to get a good picture of New York in the early Baby Boom era.	2002-01-23
US	52954904	R15BWWBOHED0N	0385495080	136486289	The Meadowlands: Wilderness Adventures at the Edge of a City	Books	4	5	6	N	N	Enjoyable, brief book of essays on the Meadowlands	Sullivan takes a fun look at one of the most maligned regions of the U.S. - the New Jersey meadowlands.  He definitely looks at it as an outsider (he is from the Pacific NW) with a mixture of repulsion and ivory-tower superiority, but with a bit of respect at times for the survival of the area and the people around it.<br />Unlike John Quinn's _Fields of Sun and Grass : An Artist's Journal of the New Jersey Meadowlands_, which was written by a Meadowlands native and mainly deals with the economic and environmental legacy of the area, Sullivan mostly looks at the region from a sociological standpoint, stressing his encounters with the people in and around the meadowlands (and humanity's legacy there) rather than the actual natural area itself.  If asked to choose, I personally preferred Quinn's work myself, but Sullivan's book is a worthy companion to Quinn, and I strongly recommend that you read both books to get a total picture of the meadowlands.<br />My favorite chapter, in fact, dealt with Sullivan's quest for the remains of New York Penn Station, a neoclassical gem of a train station in Manhattan that was torn down in the name of &quot;progress&quot; in the 1960s and which is reported to be buried in the swamps of NJ (read _The Destruction of Penn Station_ by Peter &amp; Barbara Moore for more on the station's demise).  Sullivan tackles the project with one part archaeology and one part good detective work, and it reads like a charm.<br />Sullivan thankfully has an engaging writing style, making the book read like a series of interconnected essays that briskly flies along like a phragmites reed bending in the wind.  Since its written more for the general audience (who may not be as familiar with the meadowlands as us NJ denizens), give it a good read, and you won't be disappointed.	2002-01-23
US	52954904	RNAM9HNQUL2AR	0060653043	591856756	Lives of the Popes : The Pontiffs from St. Peter to John Paul II	Books	4	12	14	N	Y	A solid work with a few flaws	McBrien tries to compress almoat 2,000 years of religious, social and political history into one volume and does a pretty solid job.  He gives anywhere from a few paragraphs to a few pages on the over 260 popes throughout history, with the bulk of his text spread out over the popes of the 20th century.<br />For the most part, McBrien looks at the popes with a scholarly and critical eye, describing how most of the popes throughout history were preoccupied with political and military matters rather than spiritual ones.<br />However, he does drift from a scholarly, critical examination from time to time.  For example, I thought that he was improperly airing out his theological complaints against the current pope in his section on John Paul II (McBrien is theology chairman at Notre Dame), but I enjoyed his passage about the much-beloved pope, John XXIII. (can someone out there recommend any good books on this pope?)<br />McBrien ends this reference work with some papal facts, like &quot;best and worst&quot; and &quot;firsts and lasts&quot; and has a chronological list, as well as an alphabetical list, of the popes.  However, my favorite parts of this book were the introductions to each chronological period of papal history.  McBrien gives a general picture of the mood of the day and how each pope dealt with military, political (and sometimes spiritual) issues of the day.  He also takes a look at internal church politics and stresses that throughout history, popes were sometimes under control of kings, emperors, powerful families and groups of bishops and clergy.<br />The book is a solid reference if you someone asks you who Pope Eugenius or Sixtus II was, and when they were popes.  Since McBrien had 2,000 years of history to cover, it piqued my curiosity to learn more about these fascinating individuals and the times in which they lived.	2002-01-14
US	52954904	R14P802L5URO6V	0060653043	591856756	Lives of the Popes : The Pontiffs from St. Peter to John Paul II	Books	4	31	35	N	Y	A solid work with a few flaws	McBrien tries to compress almoat 2,000 years of religious, social and political history into one volume and does a pretty solid job. He gives anywhere from a few paragraphs to a few pages on the over 260 popes throughout history, with the bulk of his text spread out over the popes of the 20th century.<br />For the most part, McBrien looks at the popes with a scholarly and critical eye, describing how most of the popes throughout history were preoccupied with political and military matters rather than spiritual ones.<br />However, he does drift from a scholarly, critical examination from time to time. For example, I thought that he was improperly airing out his theological complaints against the current pope in his section on John Paul II (McBrien is theology chairman at Notre Dame), but I enjoyed his passage about the much-beloved pope, John XXIII. (can someone out there recommend any good books on this pope?)<br />McBrien ends this reference work with some papal facts, like \\"best and worst\\" and \\"firsts and lasts\\" and has a chronological list, as well as an alphabetical list, of the popes. However, my favorite parts of this book were the introductions to each chronological period of papal history. McBrien gives a general picture of the mood of the day and how each pope dealt with military, political (and sometimes spiritual) issues of the day. He also takes a look at internal church politics and stresses that throughout history, popes were sometimes under control of kings, emperors, powerful families and groups of bishops and clergy.<br />I've even used this book to settle barroom discussions over popes and in August, 2002, when the press began to ask if Pope John Paul II was going to resign, I referenced this book when people were asking me if other popes have resigned in the past (they did, BTW).<br />The book is a solid reference if you someone asks you who Pope Eugenius or Sixtus II was, and when they were popes. Since McBrien had 2,000 years of history to cover, it piqued my curiosity to learn more about these fascinating individuals and the times in which they lived.	2002-01-14
US	52954904	R2TSYJCLFGOCXH	0813519551	207910991	Looking for America on the New Jersey Turnpike	Books	5	15	16	N	N	The definitive history on the Turnpike	As a lifelong New Jerseyan who endured the &quot;what exit&quot; jokes by out-of-staters (Exit 12, now that you've asked), Rockland and Gillespie try to tackle the cultural significance of the loved and loathed New Jersey Turnpike.  They cite the popular reference in the Simon &amp; Garfunkel tune, &quot;America,&quot; and stress that the Turnpike is one of the most heavily-traveled highways in the world.<br />What they do well is describe in entertaining detail the story on how and why the Turnpike was built (note: the secretive NJ Turnpike Authority did not cooperate with the authors when they were researching this book) and the many anecdotes about the road that bring new insights into New Jersey (and American) politics and history.<br />The authors make two main cultural arguments throughout the book:<br />The first one is how the negative opinion of New Jersey has been shaped over the years by travel on the Turnpike.  Let's face it -- the Turnpike travels through the least attractive areas of the state.  From the decayed industrial north to the straight, flat and boring stretches in South Jersey, the Turnpike is not a great public relations tool for the state of New Jersey.  New Jersey is not all oil refineries (exit 12 &amp; 13), huge megawarehouses (exit 8A) or bland suburban sprawl (exit 9 &amp; 10), but since millions of people from around the globe have traveled on this road to or from Newark Airport or along the Northeast, they think that what they see along the Turnpike is typical to the Garden State (yes, we still have gardens).<br />Second, the authors' argue that the Turnpike was the ultimate expression of form over function -- an idea that reached its zenith in the mid-20th century.  The road was built with efficiency and safety being its highest (and perhaps only) priorities and the roadbuilders did not consider aesthetics or the concerns of neighbors or private landowners when building or maintaining the road.<br />This book is a great and worthy complement to works like Robert Caro's The Power Broker or other works on famous roads like Rt. 66, Highway 1, the National Road (US Rt. 40), etc.  You don't have to be a New Jersey-phile to enjoy this book!	2001-11-27
US	52954904	R29DPSD3AFS81N	0679753834	420678567	The Risk Pool	Books	5	26	26	N	N	A genuine American novel about genuine, realistic people	Russo's first book, Mohawk, was beautifuly written with a realistic cast of characters, but I found that it was weighed down by a totally uninteresting and uninspiring plot.<br />The Risk Pool takes the best elements of his first work, sprinkles in an even more colorful assortment of barflies and other sundry and sordid characters, and actually takes us on a sprawling journey of a son and his relationship with his hard-livin', hard-drinkin' father.<br />Once again, Russo goes through great lengths to make his characters three-dimensional and genuine. He is a master of setting you right down in the bars, fishing holes, trailers, coldwater flats and smoking convertibles and getting you acquainted with Ned Hall and his father, Sam, and all their friends. He has a remarkable talent of making you feel as if you've known these guys for years. Russo also peppers these individuals with some fantastic, realistic dialogue that had me laughing out loud in places (especially when the fellas were discussing and debating the attempted suicide of a local resident).<br />Russo makes no attempt to hide the many flaws in his characters; even the narrator, Ned, is a compulsive liar who seems to be an emotionally-detached observer and not a participant in his his own relationships with friends and lovers.  His father, Sam, despite all of his problems (drinking, gambling, fighting, run-ins with the law, etc.), is made into a believably sympathetic character by Russo, and the author really captures that weird bond between a son and his father regardless of Sam's many, many negatives.<br />Don't read this book looking for wacky hijinks or any profound insights into life, love or relationships.  Thankfully, The Risk Pool never gets sappy or over romanticized like other parent-child novels.  The book can be insightful and poetic at times, but that's not the main thrust of The Risk Pool. Take this book at face value like Russo does of his setting, characters and plot, and you'll be sure to love it. <br />It's one of the best books I've read all year.	2001-10-31
US	52954904	RUEC8721GFGM1	0679753826	601428370	Mohawk	Books	2	2	6	N	N	Not a sleeper...a snoozer	Russo's early work here takes you deep into the small-town life of Mohawk, NY, an industrial town with characters as lifeless and depressing as the dying industrial economy. There is no satire or tongues-in-cheeks here (see Rob Levandoski's delicious novel, &quot;Serendipity Green&quot; for a biting take) as Russo brings to life characters who go nowhere and do nothing.<br />Russo painstakingly crafts each character like you knew him or her all of your life, placing you right in there as a resident of this upstate hamlet and joining your neighbors in gossiping behind their backs. However, this book is like a beautifully-painted picture -- rich in detail and depth and provocative at times, but like all paintings, it doesn't move. Throughout the whole book, nothing much really happens. There is a run-in with the police near the end of the book, but the incident is brief and hard-to-follow, and the resuming trial reads more like a misdemeanor trial than a sensational courtroom drama fit for a felony. In fact, the crime and trial are a small, relatively insignificant part of the book -- just like the lives of the characters. <br />The inept, gambling drunk Dallas Younger is perhaps the only redeemable character in the book, and that's stretching it. The rest of the book's characters are a bunch of small-minded, petty and boring individuals whose self-doubts and fears are of no real consequence to anyone but themselves. Nothing really interesting happens to these people, although Russo does a magnificent job of making these bores seem realistic.<br />I was looking for a rust-belt Faulkner from this guy, and I've heard better things about Russo's later books. I will give those books a try. His characterization is his strong suite; he is horrible at creating any action.	2001-09-18
US	52954904	R37IX7PCNL64BM	0813521157	378625209	Snowshoeing Through Sewers: Adventures in New York City, New Jersey, and Philadelphia	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Entertaining tales of urban adventures	I gotta give the author some credit for participating in activities than millions of Americans do every day - canoeing, biking, hiking, etc.  However, very, very few Americans do this along overdeveloped NJ highways or in urban drainage ditches that were once bucolic streams, so I give Mr. Rockland many bonus points for originality.<br />Rockland has a sharp, entertaining writing style that held my interest throught this book, and this collection of stories was a great complement to Looking for America on the NJ Turnpike, his first work.	2001-07-10
US	52954904	RBWDYECZ8QUYS	0679738762	21996426	Low Life: Lures and Snares of Old New York	Books	5	41	43	N	N	Well written &amp; entertaining tale of the REAL &quot;old New York&quot;	People who think that New York City reached its low point in the 1970s (or the 1980s) as the Bronx burned and crime seemed to be on every streetcorner sometimes tend to idealize the past.  Perhaps it was shaped from movies from the 20s and 30s that seemed to show a simpler NYC, or maybe it was just plain misguided nostalgia.<br />Sante does a fantastic job of recounting the dark underbelly of New York City in the 19th and early 20th century, going into gory details about the horrible poverty along the Bowery and Lower East Side (areas that have seen extensive gentrification since the late 1980s), the filthy streets and disease outbreaks among the city's immigrant masses, the proliferation of street gangs (some of whom were representing NYC police) and other, well, &quot;low lifes.&quot;  Sante gives an engaging, well-paced description of the oft-overlooked problems a booming industrial-age city like New York was going through and boldly goes where no historian has gone before.<br />Required reading if you are a NYC (or urban) history fan.	2001-07-10
US	52954904	R1I3IHGFKFPX6V	0679463062	695302995	Five-Finger Discount: A Crooked Family History	Books	3	4	6	N	N	An angry young woman writes her memoirs in urban America	Having lived in Jersey City myself, I was drawn towards Stapinski's book of growing up with a horribly dysfunctional family that, like many Euro-American families of the mid 20th century, were intertwined with the urban political machines of the day (although my family was, thankfully, quite normal).<br />Stapinski gathers many of the old time Jersey City political anecdotes and stories found in Thomas F.X. Smith's &quot;The Powerticians&quot; (written by a former Mayor of Jersey City whose book is now out of print) and puts a personal spin on them.  Her descriptions of ethnic traditions (like Polish food), the political hijinks of the day and her many warped relatives were the book's strong points, and I wish she wrote more about them in this book.  Like many other great Jersey City writers (Tom Fleming and Bob Leach come to mind), Stapinski has a talent for vivid and engaging storytelling.<br />Stapinski's negative attitudes and comments about Jersey City echoed many of the &quot;white flighters&quot; who left the city in droves from 1940 to the present for the suburbs.  On just about every page, she complains how ugly, dirty, corrupt and polluted Jersey City is, and at times, I felt that her criticisms bordered on snobbery because she, unlike her blue-collar peers and relatives, received a degree from an elite Eastern university and was able to see Jersey City from a &quot;higher perch&quot; as a newspaper reporter. <br />It appeared that she used those issues as excuses all too often for her family's problems.  Even worse, Stapinski appears to find redemption later in her book by moving to Brooklyn, another urban area that shares many of the same ills as Jersey City, but with far higher rents and more traffic.<br />This book held real promise as a classic collection of urban tales, and the positives outweighed the negatives.  Even though the work is a memoir (and therefore, can be as subjective as the author wants), Stapinski seems to carry a big chip on her shoulder, constantly reminding the reader how horrible her hometown is and fails to convince the reader that the good times described in her book were any good at all during her childhood and her adult life (It worked in Frank McCourt's memoirs but failed in Five Finger Discount).<br />I still eagerly look forward to future works by this writer, and I hope that she takes a fairer and more balanced look at things next time she sits down at the word processor.	2001-07-10
US	52954904	R3BJ7C13IP0ARU	0671207148	488116612	The Johnstown Flood	Books	5	8	8	N	N	A well-researched work that reads like a novel	The 1889 Johnstown Flood, perhaps one of the most infamous disasters in American history, was vividly captured in this early work by biographer & historian David McCullough. His book is *the* definitive work on this subject. <br /> <br />McCullough masterfully creates a vivid picture of Johnstown in the 1880s - a booming industrial city with a teeming immigrant population. He parallels his story about the city of Johnstown with the area's reputation as a summer home for the steel magnates of nearby Pittsburgh, and how those two worlds would tragically collide on a rainy May day in 1889. <br /> <br />He goes into almost minute-by-minute detail about how the heavy rains ate away at the earthen dam that held back the private lake of the South Fork Fishing & Hunting Club, and the frantic efforts to save the dam, complementing engineering reports on the dam with great storytelling as the workers tried to prevent the dam from giving way. <br /> <br />McCullough's finest literary moment comes when the dam does give way, and the millions of gallons of water come rushing downstream towards the unsuspecting citizens of Johnstown. It almost seems as if he is bringing the reader along for the ride, yard by yard, as the water rushes down the valley and picks up virtually everthing in is path -- railroad cars and locomotives, trees, fences, livestock, homes, etc. Again, he goes into incredible detail as the torrent of water moves downstream, and he paces this tale like a well-written suspense novel. McCullough's descriptive style made it easy for me to picture the carnage and chaos in my head before the flood hit Johnstown, and this was my favorite part of the book. <br /> <br />When the flood finally reached the city, it sloshed back and forth against a RR bridge and the nearby hills like a kid playing in a bathtub, killing some 2,000 people and virtually levelling the entire city. The author's details again shine through as he describes the suprisingly well-orchestrated attempts by the city fathers and others to help the living and the dead and get the city back on its feet. <br /> <br />Even if you do not regularly read historical works of nonfiction, McCullough's book is fast paced and does an excellent job of holding the reader's attention. He also does not weight the book down by sidetracking the story with minutiae, but uses fine details when they are needed. This work not only gives a exhaustive account of a famous American disaster, but is a colorful window into industrial-era America.	2001-05-03
US	52954904	R2ZUEMPHYSQ8MC	0394720245	800538326	The Power Broker: Robert Moses and the Fall of New York	Books	5	29	31	N	N	The best biography ever.  An amazing read!	Don't be daunted by the length of this book.  Caro's exhaustive work about one of the most politically-powerful men in 20th Century New York (who was never elected to public office) is a page-turner and a classic story of a man acquiring power for power's sake.<br />Many readers and historians have used this book for a primer on how NOT to conduct urban planning.  Moses' heavy hand, disdain for delays and love of the automobile in transit-centered New York City are really only a small part of this story.  Like the title says, I think Caro really wrote a tale of a man whose official job titles were &quot;only&quot; the head of the Triborough Bridge &amp; Tunnel Authority and the NY Parks system, but the power he wielded shook mayors, senators and even a president or two along the way.  His power transcended political party and popular will, and only did late in his career, as he battled society women over expanding a parking lot in Central Park, did he begin to fall from his once-untouchable pedestal.  Caro emphasizes that Moses never used power for financial wealth, and lived modestly his entire life.<br />Caro does a phenomenal job by describing how Moses' insistence on building the Cross-Bronx Expy through the heart of a thriving residential neighborhood  led to the widescale decay of that neighborhood for generations to come.  It was certainly the book's high point.<br />Historians today now look at Moses with a kinder light than Caro did in 1974, citing him for the quality and aesthetic touches he put into many of his highways and parks (remember, by 1974, &quot;form follows function&quot; reigned supreme, and all public buildings and projects were bland, faceless monoliths of concrete and cinderblocks).  Even the oft-quoted statement that Moses deliberately designed his parkway bridges too low to accomodate buses has been discredited by Caro himself in later years.<br />Even if you have never ridden public transit or set foot in New York City, you will not be disappointed by this book.  It is perhaps the best biography I have ever written and one of my favorite works of non-fiction.	2001-05-02
US	52954904	R1JJWL8M1Q853X	0316779423	685145331	Barrel Fever: Stories and Essays	Books	4	10	10	N	Y	A great intro to a talented writer	I admit that I first read Naked and Me Talk Pretty before I picked up this collection of Sedaris' early stories and essays.  Since Naked and Me Talk Pretty were written in the first person like a warped memoir from Sedaris' life, and were at times more designed to create laughter than to savage human nature, it took a few chapters for me to adapt to Sedaris taking on the voice of various crackpots and losers rather than himself.  <br />Sedaris' stuff that is displayed in Barrel Fever takes a sharper aim at the shallowness, self-importance and bitterness contained in his characters than Naked and Me Talk Pretty, but the sidesplitting humor in his later works only rears its head from time to time in Barrel Fever, most notably during the near-legendary &quot;SantaLand Diaries&quot; story.<br />Sedaris is a talented writer who lets his characters grind an axe or two now and then.	2001-04-30
US	52954904	R3GLRLW18OCC76	0316777730	1192464	Naked	Books	5	18	21	N	Y	Guaranteed to embarrass you if you read this book in public	I bought this book for my wife for Christmas and then had to sit there in jealousy as she chuckled, giggled, snorted and roared her way through this book.  When she finished the book and let me read it, I now knew what she was laughing about.<br />Sedaris' antics with his dysfunctional, Greek-American family are guaranteed to make you laugh out loud.  I made the mistake of reading this book on the train, and I could not contain my laughter at points.  The chapters on &quot;Ya-Ya,&quot; hitchhiking back home from college with his parapeligic &quot;wife,&quot; speaking Elizabethan English at the family dinner table, riding a Greyhound bus on the floor, etc., will have you, literally, rolling on the floor.  I enjoyed Sedaris' catchy one-liners and deadpan humor in describing people he encounters even more than his wacky antics. <br />What also makes this book attractive is that Sedaris is not just poking fun at people or deliberately being funny for humor's sake.  In the middle of a chapter, he would say something profound or make you realize that the guy is much deeper than a humor writer.  That provided a welcome relief to the hours of side-splitting laughter that you'll be enduring when picking up this book.  Highly recommended!	2001-01-24
US	52954904	RQ7CPR9UBNQ5A	0824515374	236534455	Catholics and American Culture: Fulton Sheen, Dorothy Day, and the Notre Dame Football Team	Books	3	14	17	N	Y	Fascinating thesis, but chapters can get a bit dry	Massa's catchy title made this book appealing to me at first, and he takes a pretty thorough look at the overwhelming changes in the American Church during the Cold War years and how those changes paralleled the transformation of American Catholics from a closed society with its own schools, social institutions, etc., to a mainstream American religion and more importantly, a mainstream American social group (Massa refers to the assimilated Catholic as part of an &quot;ethnic group&quot; in America).<br />I found the first half of each chapter quite fascinating, as Massa describes the days of Thomas Merton, Notre Dame's rise to academic excellence under Rev. Ted Hesburgh, the first Sunday of Advent, 1964 (the first week when the Vatican II Mass was conducted in churches across the US), and more.<br />Unfortunately, Massa would fill up the second half of each chapter with analysis from (what he called) &quot;famous&quot; sociologists.  I haven't taken sociology since my undergrad days, so other than Andrew Greeley and Max Weber, I heard of none of these &quot;famous&quot; people.  Massa's lapse into dry academic language each chapter slowed down the book considerably, and I found myself skimming over those sections after reading a few chapters.  At times, his book read like a sociology textbook.<br />Charles Morris' _ American Catholic : The Saints and Sinners Who Built America's Most Powerful Church_ makes similar assertions as Massa's book, but it is far more readable and deals heavily with 19th century America more than the Cold War.  However, it eventually is Massa who makes a more forceful argument and deals more in detail with the transformation of the American Church after World War II (_American Catholic_ goes into very little detail about these changes, oddly enough).<br />All in all, an uneven but promising work better suited for a sociology class than for a general reader.  If you read it, I recommend Morris' book as a worthy complement.	2001-01-20
US	52954904	R3N1AZU43LV9IG	1579121470	536925489	Baby on the Car Roof and 222 Other Urban Legends: Absolutely True Stories That Happened to a Friend of a Friend of a Friend	Books	4	13	15	N	Y	Snail mail a copy to your e-mail-happy friends	I purchased this book as a gift for friends and relatives who constantly bombard me with e-mails about stories they &quot;swear really happened&quot; (I may have to buy several hundred). This book isn't heavy reading, but contains many twists and versions of urban legends we've all read on the web or in our e-mail inboxes. I only wish it took the time to trace the origins of these urban legends and describe variations of them as I've seen on a few web sites.	2000-12-08
US	52954904	R2557JC3F1GR1C	0897811720	33331879	Hudson County: The left bank	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Updated in 1998	The book that I reviewed above was updated in 1999 and has some new information (photos and text) on the growth of Hudson County since the first book was published in 1986. A must-read if you are interested in the record of this history-rich area of the NY metro region.	2000-11-20
US	52954904	R247IHA7PMKJIT	1579620639	453209505	Serendipity Green	Books	4	0	0	N	N	A fast-paced satire on small-town life	Set in a Mayberry-like midwestern small town that was rapidly transforming  (or deteriorating as some may argue) under the pressures of suburban  sprawl, Levandoski gleefully skewers historical preservationists, local  politicians, New York artsy types, and others with his humorous and  easy-to-follow writing style.  The author creates a wonderfully rich parade  of colorful characters who come together with edginess, satire and, of  course, some pretty zany antics. <br />I spent time in the heat of local  politics, and Levandoski masterfully captures the petty arguing, ego trips  and power brokering that goes on in town halls across the nation.  It is  the strongest element of his book.<br />The book kept my wife and I talking  for days about the plot developments and who we would cast as each  character if we were making this book into a film!<br />I agree with other  reviewers who disliked the book's numerous typos and spelling errors, but I  blame the publisher, not the author.	2000-09-07
US	52954904	R1EQ3J8ZK7ZBRO	0688172245	152826261	The Lost Tomb: In 1995, An American Egyptologist Discovered The Burial Site Of The Sons Of Ramesses Ii--this Is His	Books	4	12	13	N	N	Fantastic story on a historic discovery	I became interested in this book after reading a favorable review in the NY Times book review, and being new to Egyptology, I was pleased to find  that Weeks did a remarkable job of providing plenty of background  information on the Valley of the Kings, history of some of the Pharoes of  Egypt, various explorers who have visited the area (and KV5) in the past,  the people who have joined his crew on the exploration of KV5 and the  effects of modern life on the condition of the tombs.<br />He does an  excellent job of holding the narrative together, and I eagerly awaited each  new page to see what (if anything), Weeks and his team would discover next.   He made no attempt to hide his excitement with each new discovery (and  disappointment into running into dead ends and other obstacles), and does a  competent job in placing the reader alongside him in the tomb.<br />This is my  first book on Egyptology, and both the seasoned Egyptologist and general  reader will find this to be a fascinating tale of archaeology in action.	2000-08-17
US	52954904	R12JJ9HEYMVTCX	081352444X	84316971	Fields of Sun and Grass: An Artist's Journal of the New Jersey Meadowlands	Books	4	2	2	N	N	A thoughtful reflection on a much-maligned region	Quinn, who grew up in one of the small suburban towns that dot the meadowlands, really captures the essense of this wilderness in the middle of the megalopolis. I never knew about how many people used (and still use) the meadowlands for hunting, trapping, fishing, etc.<br />While other authors deal with the cultural significance of something like the meadowlands, Quinn takes the position of a passionate naturalist and friend of the meadowlands, describing in detail wildlife, regional ecology and geology, history of the area and the many pressures the meadows face today.<br />A must if you're a fan of urban ecology, New Jersey, or just well-written nonfiction.	2000-07-26
US	52954904	R1Y6IQY19PDE95	0818403284	879329053	The Powerticians	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Required reading for anyone interested in urban politics	A concise history of the legendary political scene in Hudson County from the Gilded Age to the administration of the author and Mayor, the late Tommie Smith, in the early 1980s. While the author does drift a bit towards the book's end in just mentioning as many supporters as he can (hey, he IS from Jersey City), this book is perhaps the definitive history of the mayoralty of Frank Hague and his defeat at the hands of John V. Kenny after WWII.<br />If you even want to understand Hudson County politics today, this book is required reading. If you want to learn about urban politics in Industrial Age America, this book is a great start.	2000-07-15
US	52954904	R345PD1VQDTFHU	0912422742	961506774	A History of the Society of Jesus	Books	4	9	11	N	N	Good intro to Jesuit history for the general reader	Not being too aware of the history of this famous religious order, I recommend this book as a general introduction not to the life of St. Ignatius (although there is plenty on his life in this book), but the history of the order -- its evangelization, relationship w/Rome, connections with (higher) education, etc.<br />The reading style is smooth enough for the average reader not steeped in Church history, but with enough knowledge of world history to follow along.	2000-07-05
US	52954904	R1JGNXOAQESTZI	1558216154	945659540	Wind, Waves, and Sunburn: A Brief History of Marathon Swimming	Books	4	1	1	N	N	A bit dated, but great reading!	The original copy of this book was released in the early 70s, and politically-correct readers probably won't warm to his outdated language (esp. in referring to female swimmers). But if you can forgive the author by remembering when it was written, Wennerberg excels at describing in detail what these swimmers went through to accomplish feats like the English Channel, Lake Michigan, etc. He makes you feel as if you're swimming right along with these pioneers of long-distance swimming in the 1950s and 60s as they stroke across some famous bodies of water, all before the advent of modern wetsuits and goggles!<br />Obviously, Wennerberg does not mention any swims after the early 1970s (except in the afterwards of the 1997 edition), but being a rather young open-water swimmer, I really enjoyed reading about the brave men &amp; women who paved the way for those of us who enjoy open-water swimming today.	2000-07-05
US	52954904	R3952GAQEWV84R	0897811720	33331879	Hudson County: The left bank	Books	4	1	1	N	N	A brief history of a county in the shadow of New York	Since Henry Hudson sailed up the river named after him and observed the land on the &quot;left bank&quot; of the Hudson River, Hudson County grew up in the shadow of its giant to the west. The book traces the history of the area now known as Hudson County, NJ, from the earliest Native American settlements to the Dutch and English communities that lived in the area. The book also touches on the growth of Hudson County as an industrial giant, and the railroad terminals, warehouses and industries that populated the Hudson River waterfront. The book also features some of the major employers of the County and I suspect that it was used as a tool to sell books and investment from these companies. When the book was published in 1986, the County was finally awakening from the collapse of blue-collar industrial jobs as the Hudson River waterfront in Hoboken and, to a smaller extent, Jersey City, was just starting to grow with new office buildings and luxury apartments. 12 years later, the Jersey City waterfront is one of the hottest commercial and residential real estate markets in the US, and most apartments in Hoboken are just as expensive as ones found in Manhattan. New housing is now springing up in the northern areas of the County, and Bayonne looks to finally be getting into the fun with redevelopment of the old Military Ocean Terminal. So, yes, the book is quite dated, and I have heard rumors that an updated version may be on the way. Coupled with _The Powerticians_ by former Jersey City Mayor Thomas F.X. Smith (which is out of print), a great book that chronicles the political happenings in Jersey City from the post-Civil War era through the late 1970s, _The Left Bank_ provides an introductory look into an often-overlooked area of the New York metro area.	1998-12-16
