US	52955153	R2IZDIHOQ7G0YD	0140183507	294217435	Eminent Victorians (Classic, 20th-Century, Penguin)	Books	4	39	41	N	Y	The importance of not being earnest	Some of Lytton Strachey's choices of subject for the four scathing biographical essays contained in _Eminent Victorians_ may seem rather strange. Florence Nightingale was an obvious choice for any biographer, but who cared about Matthew Arnold in the post-war era when Strachey was writing these essays? Who gave a thought to Cardinal Manning or Chinese Gordon? And why combine their biographies into one book?<br /><br />The answer may be that all four shared one unusual character trait, one so reminiscent of the Victorian age that even the thought of it brings the scent of lavender to mind: extreme earnestness. Each figure cared very, very deeply about something, but for each that earnestness also masked a corresponding personal craving. Like many young Britons in the post-WWI era, Strachey was deeply distrustful of earnestness, often seeing it as an excuse for personal gain or fulfillment. This was especially true when one man's deeply held beliefs sent others to their deaths, as it often had during WWI. He had no time for official incompetence, ignorance, or inaction, but often found the opposite just as dangerous.<br /><br />The first essay in _Eminent Victorians_ is that of Cardinal Manning. Manning was a priest in the Church of England who became involved in the Oxford Movement, a group of churchmen who disliked the increasing secularization of the C of E and who wished to bring it back to its Catholic roots. Most of those involved remained in the Anglican communion, forming the nucleus of the \\"High Church\\" movement of the late 19th century. Manning found that he could not stop at that, though; unable to reconcile his belief in a Church Universal with his membership in a church that existed basically because Henry VIII was a serial adulterer, and unable to 'take back' the text of a tract he had written that was deeply critical of the Anglican church and which eliminated any chances of his gaining higher office, Manning found himself eventually in the arms of Rome. Strachey paints Manning as a weak, vacillating, impulsive man of great ambition whose conversion to Roman Catholicism was as much a political and career move as one of the heart and soul. Had Manning remained in the Church of England, Strachey implies, he would have been an archdeacon until death; only conversion to Roman Catholicism allowed him to fulfil his ambitions towards higher office. It's  a masterful biography, one that explores not just its purported subject but also the birth of Anglo-Catholicism.<br /><br />The third essay, of Rugby school headmaster Matthew Arnold, reveals Strachey's hatred of the English public school system (or what we in North America would call the private school system). He skewers Arnold for failing to make the educational reforms he was hired to make and for delegating the discipline of younger students to the senior class, thereby condoning and even encouraging the type of severe bullying that caused many young men to consider suicide. Arnold, whose earnestness in creating 'Christian gentlemen' did not go so far as to allow him to teach them himself, refused to update the school curriculum ostensibly because gentlemen didn't need science, maths, or English literature, but really (as Strachey contends) because Arnold had studied Latin and Greek himself and didn't want to feel his own learning was unnecessary. Strachey points out that Arnold did little at Rugby except pronounce the Sunday sermon, intimidate students, and foster a personality cult that eventually made him the father of modern education in many Britons' eyes - even though he made no changes to the educational system itself. His reforms in discipline and in religion (and his lack of reforms in curriculum) were copied by most public schools, to the great detriment of the British people.<br /><br />In Strachey's essay on General Gordon, Strachey shows how a brave man with a strong belief in the rightness of his cause and an overwhelming desire for adventure may havebeen used to precipitate a war and to advance the cause of imperialism. Gordon, a war veteran and former colonial administrator (and a rather unstable fellow), was sent to the Sudan during a revolt to report on conditions there and to evacuate civilians who were loyal to Egypt, which was then controlled by the British. Gordon did none of the above; he instead tried to wipe out the insurrection, and for his troubles was killed and his staff and allies massacred. His death was used by the imperialist factions in the ruling party as a call to arms. Strachey wonders: was this deliberate? Was Gordon given alternate instructions by the imperialists? Did they intend for him to die, so that his death could be used as a rallying point for further imperialism? He argues his point well, and the essay is definitely worth reading.<br /><br />Strachey's portrait of Florence Nightingale is not quite as successful as the rest. Nightingale was born into a wealthy family, and like all young women of her class and time was expected to marry young, have children, and generally be nothing more than a society lady. Florence wanted more: she wanted to work, to make a difference, to change the world, and she wanted everybody around her to work as hard as she did. After many years of waiting, she finally had her chance; her efforts to reform British military hospitals and eventually the practice of medicine in the Empire did in fact change the world. Strachey seems to have thought that she pushed her colleagues too hard, that her own drive was so abnormal that her friends and family could not keep up. Granted, she did push some of her colleagues very hard, and one may have even died from overwork, but they chose to work with her because they believed in her, and given what she was able to do I think they were right to believe in her. It also appears that Strachey may not have been comfortable with a woman refusing to hide her intelligence or personal strength when dealing with men. I had the distinct impression while reading this essay that Strachey was sneering at those men who took orders from Nightingale or who assisted her in her work. Another reviewer mentioned that Nightingale is portrayed here as a 'pushy woman' - and she certainly is; however, most of Strachey's implied criticism seems to be directed towards the men who treated her as the intelligent, hard-working, valuable human being she was. Strachey also seems to have viewed her invalid status as something of a neurotic problem, which in the light of recent research (showing that she likely had undulant fever) may not be accurate.may have been used to precipitate a war and to advance the cause of imperialism. Gordon, a war veteran and former colonial administrator (and a rather unstable fellow), was sent to the Sudan during a revolt to report on conditions there and to evacuate civilians who were loyal to Egypt, which was then controlled by the British. Gordon did none of the above; he instead tried to wipe out the insurrection, and for his troubles was killed and his staff and allies massacred. His death was used by the imperialist factions in the ruling party as a call to arms. Strachey wonders: was this deliberate? Was Gordon given alternate instructions by the imperialists? Did they intend for him to die, so that his death could be used as a rallying point for further imperialism? He argues his point well, and the essay is definitely worth reading. <br /> <br />Strachey's portrait of Florence Nightingale is not quite as successful as the rest. Nightingale was born into a wealthy family, and like all young women of her class and time was expected to marry young, have children, and generally be nothing more than a society lady. Florence wanted more: she wanted to work, to make a difference, to change the world, and she wanted everybody around her to work as hard as she did. After many years of waiting, she finally had her chance; her efforts to reform British military hospitals and eventually the practice of medicine in the Empire did in fact change the world. Strachey seems to have thought that she pushed her colleagues too hard, that her own drive was so abnormal that her friends and family could not keep up. Granted, she did push some of her colleagues very hard, and one may have even died from overwork, but they chose to work with her because they believed in her, and given what she was able to do I think they were right to believe in her. It also appears that Strachey may not have been comfortable with a woman refusing to hide her intelligence or personal strength when dealing with men. I had the distinct impression while reading this essay that Strachey was sneering at those men who took orders from Nightingale or who assisted her in her work. Another reviewer mentioned that Nightingale is portrayed here as a 'pushy woman' - and she certainly is; however, most of Strachey's implied criticism seems to be directed towards the men who treated her as the intelligent, hard-working, valuable human being she was. Strachey also seems to have viewed her invalid status as something of a neurotic problem, which in the light of recent research (showing that she likely had undulant fever) may not be accurate.	2005-09-23
US	52955153	R1PI39AU0VEJ4B	0864119917	757442746	Bill'S Sydney Food	Books	3	4	23	N	N	A healthy attitude towards healthy food, but few recipes could be prepared by North American cooks	Bill Granger's \\"Sydney Food\\" contains recipes featured at Bill Granger's Sydney, Australia restaurants. Granger's belief that taste is more important than appearance is refreshingly healthy; he stresses freshness and flavour, not looks. His recipes have been thoroughly tested and his instructions are easy for the home cook to follow. Virtually every recipe is both nutritious and good-tasting.<br /><br />That said, this book might not be of much use to the average North American home cook. Many of the recipes call for ingredients such as fresh shrimp which aren't easily available to most North Americans at a reasonable price. I don't say that this is a bad thing; Granger wrote his book for the Australian market and the cookbook features recipes he cooks in his restaurants, so obviously the recipes are going to call for Australian ingredients. However, the North American cook should realize this before buying \\"Sydney Food\\" and not expect that every recipe will be easily accessible.<br /><br />I enjoyed reading this cookbook even though I'm not able to prepare half the recipes included. I'd like to see what Granger would do, though, if he were restricted only to ingredients easily available in North America.	2005-09-06
US	52955153	R7IT8XM0C11NB	0226290301	940651386	A Taste of Ancient Rome	Books	5	54	59	N	N	Delicious recipes and a fascinating look at ancient Rome	I bought \\"A Taste of Ancient Rome\\" more out of historical interest than out of any real desire to prepare foods in the Roman style. One day, though, I ended up being given six frozen mallard ducks, and one of the recipes in this book, Duck with Turnips, caught my eye. I tried it, and it was absolutely amazing. Since that day I've prepared over half of the recipes in this book, and I've found most of them to be delicious, easy to prepare, and economical.<br /><br />One of the more enjoyable facets of international cooking is seeing how cooks from different cultures meld flavours in a way most of us in North America would never think of. The recipes in this book contain many combinations that would seem to us to be insane. Duck with turnips? Cream of wheat or spelt with a ham bone? Cantaloupe with garlic and pepper? Tuna steak with dates? These blends sounds very bizarre, but they all work, and work well.<br /><br />The writer has included a few recipes which couldn't be prepared in our time (such as the recipe calling for parrot!) simply to show the decadence of first-century Rome. But what surprised me the most about the other recipes is how many of them are absolutely accessible to the modern chef. One reason for this is the fact that the ingredients unfamiliar to us can for the most part be easily substituted with ingredients we have on hand. Apparently, even some Romans (Pliny the Elder, for instance) hated garum and substituted salt, so it's not inauthentic for us to do so. Another reason is simply that we still eat many of the foods the Romans did. Although they didn't have pasta, tomatoes, potatoes, soy, corn, or any of the other foods borrowed from the Far East or the New World, they did have most of the meats, fruits, nuts, and vegetables we eat on a daily basis.<br /><br />That said, this book is not for everybody. There seems to be a subset of North Americans who eat nothing but conventional, middle-of-the-road food and who have no interest in anything the least bit unusual or new. If you shop for all your groceries at Wal-Mart, if you turn down any food that isn't aggressively conservative as being weird, foreign, or disgusting, and if TGIFridays or Appleby's is your idea of a really good restaurant, you probably won't enjoy this book. However, if you are able to go beyond your food comfort level and especially if you're interested in how people ate 2,000 years ago, A Taste of Ancient Rome might be for you.thing the least bit unusual or new. If you shop for all your groceries at Wal-Mart, if you turn down any food that isn't aggressively conservative as being weird, foreign, or disgusting, and if TGIFridays or Appleby's is your idea of a really good restaurant, you probably won't enjoy this book. However, if you are able to go beyond your food comfort level and especially if you're interested in how people ate 2,000 years ago, A Taste of Ancient Rome might be for you.	2005-09-01
US	52955153	R33OP86VC5XALG	0785265198	681148014	The What Would Jesus Eat Cookbook	Books	1	33	40	N	N	Poor recipes, historically a sad, sad joke	One of the challenges Don Colbert faced in writing the What Would Jesus Eat Cookbook is whether the book should focus on the foods Jesus did eat in Judea 2000 years ago or on the foods Jesus would eat were He transported to 21st century America. Colbert doesn't seem to have decided which way he wanted to go, possibly because he doesn't quite seem to understand where he was coming from.<br /><br />A great deal of controversy has been stirred up by Colbert's claims that following the Mosaic laws is healthier than following the standard Western diet. Colbert does not claim that the laws forbidding the consumption of pork, seafood and other foods and food combinations still apply; his premise is simply that following the dietary laws that Jesus did, and eating the foods He would have eaten during His lifetime, is healthier than following our modern diet. However, this premise is undercut by the inclusion of ingredients in well over half the recipes which are completely foreign to the ancient Mediterranean. No Judean (or Roman, for that matter) would have recognized New World foods such as tomatoes, potatoes, hot peppers, and squash or Far Eastern foods such as edameme and soy sauce, yet one or more of these ingredients can be found in over half the recipes. What's more, many of the foods and condiments enjoyed in the Holy Land at the time - fish sauce, lovage, wild mushrooms, and above all wine (note: not grape juice, alcoholic WINE) - are never mentioned, let alone included in a recipe.<br /><br />But the main criticism I have of this book is its premise. Colbert seems to subscribe to the idea that ancient people were somehow healthier than we moderns, and that our poor diet is the main reason. This is, to be blunt, absolutely false. When Jesus died at age 33, He had lived a longer life than the vast majority of His countrymen. The average age at death under Imperial rule for those who survived childhood was a short 20 years. Those living in Roman-occupied territories tended to be desperately poor by our standards, able to afford little more than whole grain porridge seasoned with fish sauce and supplemented with whatever herbs and mushrooms could be found growing wild. Few could afford fresh vegetables and fruits; beef was virtually unattainable (and not, as Colbert says, eaten once a month) because cattle were needed as draft animals. Fish, a delicacy, was far too expensive for most. The only readily available protein sources were beans and lentils - incomplete and bland. Epidemics carried away far more Judeans than Romans simply because the Romans ate better - more protein, more calcium, more calories.<br /><br />As for the recipes: I tried four or five, but I was not impressed. Many recipes are simply retreads of modern Mediterranean cooking - incidentally, nothing like ancient Mediterranean cooking - and others seem to have been lifted from the pages of a 1970s hippy cookbook. The blueberry potato salad was literally inedible, the hummus smelled and tasted awful, and the soups were somehow both overspiced and underflavoured.<br /><br />This book fails in all ways: it doesn't provide a look into the foods Jesus and His followers would have enjoyed, it doesn't make the case for Colbert's version of healthy eating, and it doesn't contain many appetizing recipes.esperately poor by our standards, able to afford little more than whole grain porridge seasoned with fish sauce and supplemented with whatever herbs and mushrooms could be found growing wild. Few could afford fresh vegetables and fruits; beef was virtually unattainable (and not, as Colbert says, eaten once a month) because cattle were needed as draft animals. Fish, a delicacy, was far too expensive for most. The only readily available protein sources were beans and lentils - incomplete and bland. Epidemics carried away far more Judeans than Romans simply because the Romans ate better - more protein, more calcium, more calories.     As for the recipes: I tried four or five, but I was not impressed. Many recipes are simply retreads of modern Mediterranean cooking - incidentally, nothing like ancient Mediterranean cooking - and others seem to have been lifted from the pages of a 1970s hippy cookbook. The blueberry potato salad was literally inedible, the hummus smelled and tasted awful, and the soups were somehow both overspiced and underflavoured.    This book fails in all ways: it doesn't provide a look into the foods Jesus and His followers would have enjoyed, it doesn't make the case for Colbert's version of healthy eating, and it doesn't contain many appetizing recipes.	2005-08-16
US	52955153	RGSLD48O9MU6A	0609607820	232816733	The Gallery of Regrettable Food	Books	3	11	24	N	Y	Heavy on the satire, maybe a little light on the explanations	The Gallery of Regrettable Food is the print version of James Lileks's web site of the same name. Lileks basically takes recipes out of old cookbooks and laughs at them. Now this is fair enough, given the recipes he's mocking. Most are horrendous, hideous mishmashes of fat, sugar, salt, and overcooked vegetables with barely a hint of spice or flavour. The photographs of the finished dishes could serve as appetite suppressants in a medically supervised diet regimen. Some of the excerpts from the books read like pages from a badly designed, badly written advertising campaign. (In fact, many of the cookbooks he skewers were giveaways produced by various food companies.)<br /><br />The biggest problem with the book is Lileks's own comments. I personally found that his superficial, often repetitive jokes weren't nearly as funny as the recipes themselves. He also doesn't appear to understand why food was prepared with so few spices, and because of this his humor sometimes falls flat. Perhaps he doesn't realize that most people in those days grew up in homes without reliable refrigeration, and had likely been served meats heavily spiced to mask deterioration. The resulting belief that any savory dish that was strongly spiced could not be fresh has only recently faded away.<br /><br />This is an interesting book, but I think it would have been better if Lileks had taken the time to learn more about cooking and food culture in the post-war period.	2005-08-15
US	52955153	RGHBVCQA4ZOOD	0517506629	319073550	The Escoffier Cookbook and Guide to the Fine Art of Cookery: For Connoisseurs, Chefs, Epicures Complete With 2973 Recipes	Books	4	129	130	N	N	Fascinating to read, but not a "cookbook" in the modern sense	\\"The Escoffier Cookbook\\" is a heavily abridged American version of Auguste Escoffier's 1903 book \\"Guide Culinaire\\". It is a fascinating look at the art of professional European cookery at the beginning of the 20th century.<br /><br />However, to appreciate this book fully, it's important to understand exactly who it was written for. Escoffier's original guide was never for a second intended for the home cook. Escoffier was a pioneer with respect to the education of professional chefs, and originally wrote this book for the use of those working in grand houses, in hotels, on ocean liners, and in restaurants who might not have had access to contemporary recipes. Accordingly, the original book does not attempt to teach basic cooking or food preparation techniques. The American translation does include some details on cooking techniques and utensils unfamiliar to the average American chef (such as poeleing, worth the cost of the book alone, and the old French form of braising), but even in the translation it is assumed that the reader is a trained, experienced chef.<br /><br />The recipes themselves are clear and simple to follow, but represent only a small subset of French cooking of the early 20th century. An earlier reviewer mentioned that there was no recipe for onion soup; this is true, but it should be understood that onion soup would never have been accepted by the class of restaurant patron Escoffier cooked for. Much of what has arrived on this side of the Atlantic as \\"French cooking\\" - dishes such as pot-au-feu, onion soup, and steak frites - is distinctly middle-class, and consequently would have been rejected by the clientele of quality restaurants of the time as being unspeakably boorish. Escoffier personally enjoyed bourgeois cooking, but as an astute, intelligent businessman he provided the haute cuisine his clients demanded.<br /><br />One interesting difference between modern cooking and the cooking featured in this book is that Escoffier uses few spices, and indeed declaims on the foolishness of using large amounts of spices in meat dishes. This appears bizarre from our vantage point, but Escoffier had sound economic reasons for his proscriptions. Most diners of the time grew up in the days before refrigeration, when old deteriorating meat was heavily spiced to make it palatable. Fresh, unspiced meat was a sign of the highest quality. The association between strong spices and poor quality was powerful enough to survive long into the 20th century, as any reader of a 1950s American cookbook can attest.<br /><br />As for the recipes themselves, I doubt that many of them could be prepared by the North American home cook. Most of us cannot afford (if we can even find) foie gras, truffles, or capons, and few have espagnole sauce or fish fumet available at all times. However, many recipes can be adapted for the modern cook - using cepes or porcini mushrooms for truffles, for instance - and those that can be prepared really are delicious., and indeed declaims on the foolishness of using large amounts of spices in meat dishes. This appears bizarre from our vantage point, but Escoffier had sound economic reasons for his proscriptions. Most diners of the time grew up in the days before refrigeration, when old deteriorating meat was heavily spiced to make it palatable. Fresh, unspiced meat was a sign of the highest quality. The association between strong spices and poor quality was powerful enough to survive long into the 20th century, as any reader of a 1950s American cookbook can attest.<br /><br />As for the recipes themselves, I doubt that many of them could be prepared by the North American home cook. Most of us cannot afford (if we can even find) foie gras, truffles, or capons, and few have espagnole sauce or fish fumet available at all times. However, many recipes can be adapted for the modern cook - using cepes or porcini mushrooms for truffles, for instance - and those that can be prepared really are delicious.	2005-08-15
US	52955153	R1JGPWIY11GUS3	1888054883	924110992	Retro Food Fiascos: A Collection of Curious Concoctions (Retro Series)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	How to make all the foods you prayed you'd never see again	I thought Retro Food Fiascos was nothing more than a blatant ripoff of James Lileks's \\"Gallery of Regrettable Food\\". The cover art, the typeface, even the design of the book, are very reminiscent of Lileks's oeuvre, and I expected it to be nothing more than a tired retread of the Lileks book with the same dull wit and the same snide, sardonic comments.<br /><br />I was wrong.<br /><br />This book is so much better! The comedy of the food itself far surpasses Mr. Lileks's sarcastic comments. What's more, this book includes recipes and even tips on preparing the food. I mean, what do you do with dried beef, canned potatoes, or pressed lamb if by some strange course of events you are presented with such? Retro Food Fiascos has the answer.<br /><br />As for Jellied Moose Nose: that recipe comes from the very useful and humorous \\"Northern Cookbook\\", and has been made a number of times by cooks in northern Canada, although with mixed results. But, God forbid, should you be left with nothing in the kitchen but a moose nose, isn't it useful to know what to do?	2005-08-10
US	52955153	R2MW37OPJOUBRU	155868087X	532771876	Canada (Culture Shock! A Survival Guide to Customs & Etiquette)	Books	3	21	22	N	N	Good, but misses three essential recommendations	This book is quite good for the American thinking about living in Canada. However, there are three essentials which the writers have left out:<br /><br />1) Do NOT even imply that Canadians are so much like Americans that Canada might as well give up its independence and become part of your home country. There is very little that will lead the average Canadian to violence (well, outside of an NHL contract), but that might do it.<br /><br />2) Canadian kids are taught from the time they learn to walk that it's dirty and boorish to wear shoes indoors. Consequently, if you visit Canadian friends, you must remove your shoes once you enter their home. This is the case even on a sunny fine day. Strangely, being barefoot is not considered anywhere near as crass or thoughtless as wearing shoes indoors, but most people do think to put on socks before visiting others, even if they don't usually wear socks.<br /><br />3) A common mistake among Americans moving to Canada is to buy a house in the suburbs thinking they're safer and more child-friendly than the inner cities. However, in many Canadian cities the inner cities have better schools, higher quality housing, less crime, and more pleasant neighbourhoods than some of the suburbs. This is especially true of Calgary and Toronto.	2005-06-18
US	52955153	R8OBLSGVPOAME	1875671110	81907195	Air Disaster, Vol. 1	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Well-researched and well-presented; some graphic images	This volume of Air Disasters covers 18 significant jet airliner accidents that took place between 1954 and 1977. Each accident has been researched thoroughly, both by the author and the artist. Macarthur Job's descriptions of the accidents, the inquiries, and the findings are clear, while Matthew Tesch's illustrations are both technically accurate and easy to follow. I highly recommend this volume to any aviation enthusiast interested in learning more about aviation safety.<br /><br />It should be noted that some of the chapters contain photographs of accident scenes. At least two photographs of the Turkish Airways accident outside of Paris are of the remains of those killed in the crash. Although these images are not at all sensational and in my opinion are totally appropriate given the horrific death toll (and the total avoidability) of this tragedy, they may not be appropriate for every reader.	2005-03-05
US	52955153	R2WY24UW68H5W4	1592231497	378919587	Uncle John's Presents: The Book of the Dumb (Uncle John Presents)	Books	3	12	13	N	N	Very funny, but too quick a read for the price	The anecdotes, stories and articles featured in Uncle John's Presents The Book of the Dumb are very, very funny. It's hard for me to believe that so much idiocy exists in the world (well, outside of the men in my family), but writer Scalzi's collection of dumb acts, dumb criminals, dumb movies, and dumb quotes proves that stupidity is everywhere.<br /><br />The only thing that bothered me was that I felt somewhat stupid for having bought this book, or should I say this half-book. Large type, wide margins, and lavish use of white space makes this book seem far smaller than 312 pages. Perhaps this book would better suit a reader who enjoys reading at a very leisurely pace, say ten pages a day. Those who like to plow through a book might feel disappointed.	2005-03-05
US	52955153	R2BNV4Y1OS7LP	0898791375	798608528	Clutter's Last Stand: It's Time to De-Junk Your Life!	Books	1	93	160	N	N	The good, the bad, and the ugly about Clutter's Last Stand	The good:<br /><br />- Aslett is in my opinion correct about the reasons people clutter and the harm clutter can do. Most people who have a lot of clutter don't even realize why it's a problem.<br /><br />- Many of his methods for getting rid of clutter are useful and sensible, but not obvious.<br /><br />- You really do feel free when you've ridden yourself of clutter.<br /><br />The bad:<br /><br />- Aslett's assumption that those with cats should care so little about them that they should get rid of them just to have a little less clutter and dust. This isn't just stupid: it's irresponsible and heartless. Most cat owners love their pets much more than they love a continually clean house. Is a little dust and fur really so horrible that you'd rather put your best friend(s) to death than live with it? I would hope not.<br /><br />- His love for the open design in houses.  Open-plan houses are a pain to decorate, more expensive than normal homes, difficult to live in (issues of privacy and sound control come to mind), usually cold and expensive to heat during the winter, and not very easy to clean, since many of the ceilings are 20 ft high and dusting the high ledges can be a chore. At any rate, most readers aren't likely to move into a new, colder, less comfortable, less energy-efficient home simply because an author recommends it.<br /><br />- His strange dislike of bedskirts. He calls them 'dust ruffles' for some bizarre reason, and officiously points out that they don't eliminate dust. He says nobody needs a 'dust ruffle', since all they do is hide clutter. Word to Don: they're called bedskirts, not dust ruffles, and they're there to HIDE THE UGLY METAL RAILS that most beds come with. Now maybe some people would prefer to spend $3,000 on a new bedroom suite instead of spending $30 for a bedskirt (as Aslett implies is a good idea), but is that really sensible? Doesn't it makes more sense to just not put anything under the bed and use a bedskirt to hide the ugly rails?<br /><br />The ugly:<br /><br />- Prejudice is never pretty. This book could have been much better if Aslett had laid off the fat-bashing and the cat owner-bashing. I might have given this book 3 stars or more, but no book written in this day and age should promote hatred, and no book promoting hatred should be given more than one star.hide the ugly rails? <br /> <br />The ugly: <br /> <br />- Prejudice is never pretty. This book could have been much better if Aslett had laid off the fat-bashing and the cat owner-bashing. I might have given this book 3 stars or more, but no book written in this day and age should promote hatred, and no book promoting hatred should be given more than one star.	2004-08-20
US	52955153	R5VKCS0XO7HHH	157954276X	262689900	The Allergy Self-Help Cookbook: Over 350 Natural Foods Recipes, Free of All Common Food Allergens: wheat-free, milk-free, egg-free, corn-free, sugar-free, yeast-free	Books	3	168	180	N	N	Most recipes contain nuts, seafood, or grains	Although this is a very useful book for anyone with an uncommon food allergy, those who are allergic to peanuts, nuts, and shellfish (and those who are gluten-intolerant) would not find this book as useful. Most of the recipes feature nuts or peanuts as main ingredients, and there's no real help given as to how to make a substitution. As the most common allergies (and the most serious, sometimes even leading to death) are to nuts and peanuts, I'm surprised that these ingredients are featured so prominently in a supposed allergy cookbook.<br />The same could be said with respect to the seafood recipes and the many recipes featuring grains that contain or (as is the case with oats) may be contaminated with other grains that contain gluten. Even a trace of gluten can bring grief to someone with celiac sprue.<br />I did not find this book very useful. However, those with allergies to rarer items or whose 'allergies' are merely intolerances (ie. no hives, throat swelling, cardiac arrest, etc.) might find this book useful. I can't recommend it to the average food allergy sufferer, though.	2004-08-20
US	52955153	R3Q5ERJW0B3YK7	1878923102	640116701	Severed: The True Story of the Black Dahlia Murder	Books	1	20	32	N	N	Like slowing down to stare at a traffic accident	John Gilmore is right to say, as he does in &quot;Severed&quot;, that murderers and their victims are linked irreversibly for eternity. Who can think of the Lindbergh baby without remembering Bruno Hauptmann, or ponder the fate of the Princes in the Tower without recalling Richard III?<br />In the same way, murders and the authors who write about them also become connected. Whether it be Anne Rule or Truman Capote, Jonathan Goodman or Max Haines, the crime writer and the crime are linked in the minds of the public by bonds as strong as those that connect the killer and the victim.<br />This is why I feel so badly for the Black Dahlia. John Gilmore has written what has to be the most sloppily written, muddled, confusing crime book I've ever read.<br />Factually, &quot;Severed&quot; is a mess. Gilmore leaves out dates, places, and names, neglects to explain what the setup between the police department and the Hearst papers really is (after reading the book twice, it's still not at all obvious to me), and jumps from date to date with not even the slightest attempt to explain what he is doing. He even brings the dead back to life!<br />Stylistically, it's a disgrace. Gilmore's muddled style is the antithesis of the film noir atmosphere he so desperately wants to convey: his prose is confused, thick and unpleasantly ambiguous without even a whiff of the dangerous sexuality or sharp cold fatalism we expect from noir. Sloppiness is not style, and smog is not atmosphere, and Gilmore is not a noir writer.<br />Some books are so good that you read them over and over. Others are okay, but not compelling enough to read more than once. &quot;Severed&quot; I read twice; once in a vain attempt to figure out what Gilmore was trying to say, and once just to gape, like people do when they pass a car accident. But the tragedy I was gaping at was not the murder itself, but the disgrace Gilmore has brought to the Black Dahlia by this travesty of a book.	2001-03-30
US	52955153	R3URPOKYYZJIRA	0916575136	102381272	Allergy-free Baking Tips for Special Flours	Books	3	0	0	N	Y	A worthwhile resource for the gluten intolerant	This book would be best for the reader just learning about gluten intolerance. It provides the reader with very good advice about how to use gluten-free flours and whole grains.<br />Unfortunately, it has very little information for those of us who are not gluten intolerant but wheat allergic (different atters entirely). The writer does not discuss the differences between regular wheat, kamut, spelt, rye, oats, and barley.<br />Those in the US will find her list of resources helpful; readers living outside the US will want more information.	2000-11-02
US	52955153	R35JZER9VDMIKS	0879758554	654786234	The Health Robbers: A Close Look at Quackery in America (Consumer Health Library)	Books	5	31	52	N	N	Read this book and don't trust your health to quacks	Please, if you're finding yourself sucked in by the deceptive advertising, false promises, and outright lies of the despicable method of thievery called alternative medicine, stop right now and read this book. You have nothing to lose -- whereas if you stick with the quacks you're likely to lose thousands of dollars and maybe your life.<br />And no, I have nothing to do with the AMA (whatever that is) or traditional medicine. I just know fraud when I see it.	2000-10-28
US	52955153	R2EOABI5W8CLBI	0345375564	836091346	Dreadnought: Britain, Germany, and the Coming of the Great War	Books	5	1	2	N	N	A comprehensive look at German naval policy, and a good read	Dreadnought is a must-read for all fans of World War I history. Massie, as usual, brings the past into vivid detail, reminding us of the importance of personality while never ignoring the facts.<br />I highly recommend this book.	2000-10-28
US	52955153	R98A90S86SH1X	0761514422	349601460	Bread Machine Baking for Better Health: Delicious Bread Recipes for Brimming Good Health	Books	3	6	7	N	N	Good try, but not totally successful	I found that many of the wheat-free recipes didn't bake up with much 'oomph' in my bread machine. They were dense, hard, and sometimes overcooked on the outside/raw in the middle. When I tried to bake the doughs in regular pans in the oven, I often misjudged the correct baking temperature.<br />There are better bread machine books out there, and many Internet sites contain spelt, rice and other non-wheat bread recipes.	2000-10-28
US	52955153	R1YK7D5Y6ODO4A	0888301782	401160453	Northern Cookbook	Books	5	4	4	N	N	A must for the Northern cook	This is perhaps the best cookbook a Northerner could own. Yes, it does feature such delicacies as Jellied Moose Nose and Hawaiian Caribou Tongue, but it also contains a wealth of information on how to prepare northern fish, wild berries, tundra greens, and other local (and free) victuals.<br />An added bonus are the brilliant illustrations by James Simpkins.<br />If you ever find yourself living north of sixty, do yourself a favour: beg, borrow or steal a copy of the Northern Cookbook.	2000-10-28
US	52955153	R1X9NF2W0J1NJ1	0373263503	647970111	Bird Lives!	Books	3	2	2	N	N	Oddly disappointed, given the high quality of the writing	I have always enjoyed Bill Moody's writing and his ability to make his characters absolutely real. Unfortunately, I figured out the identity of the murderer far too early in this book for my tastes.<br />If you enjoy well-written prose, by all means read this book. But if the mystery itself is more important to you, I suggest you choose one of Moody's other excellent novels instead.	2000-10-28
US	52955153	R1HT3D7SHRCIQ6	0140137688	903078713	Stuart England: Second Edition (Hist of England, Penguin)	Books	2	5	7	N	Y	Well-researched but as dry as dust	This book succeeds where few others have: it somehow makes the time of the English Civil War, Charles II and Marlborough seem as dull as ditchwater. What I find doubly disturbing is that this book, the worst-written of all the Pelican History of England series, is the only one currently in print.<br />What were they thinking????	2000-10-28
US	52955153	RBJKQBOCEMM5G	0884196852	641241425	The Bible Cure for Allergies: Ancient Truths, Natural Remedies and the Latest Findings for Your Health Today	Books	1	9	49	N	N	Pseudoscientific claptrap	The Bible Cure for Allergies is nothing but pseudoscientific claptrap designed to convince the gullible that ancient peoples were somehow healthier than we are. (Most ancients lived short, pain-filled lives, but you won't read that here.) Far from being Biblical, this book would insult many conservative Christians with its constant references to New Age healing powers and the like.<br />Reputable allergy treatments do not contravene the teachings of the Bible. There is therefore no reason for anyone, no matter how devout or religious, to resort to the unproven, ineffective, expensive remedies this book recommends.	2000-10-22
US	52955153	R15OAMD4JV4DN2	0671780689	560004032	Ice Trap (Star Trek, Book 60)	Books	2	9	11	N	N	Captain! Our suspension of disbelief is overloading!	The authors who publish under the pseudonym L.A. Graf have turned out some of the best Original Series professional fiction available. &quot;Ice Trap&quot;, unfortunately, is one of their worst collaborations. The  characterizations are poor, the setting is highly derivative, and the  writing is uneven and choppy.<br />One of the reasons we read Original Series  profic is that we love the characters. What a shame it is, then, that the  most important characters in this book are portrayed so badly. I was  embarrassed by Uhura's overt sexuality while on duty and annoyed by  Chekov's neurotic whining, but Spock: poor Spock comes across as a pathetic  bookworm who loves the sound of his own voice and who wouldn't lift a hand  to save his own captain.<br />The poor characterizations make it difficult  for the reader to suspend disbelief long enough to enjoy this book.  Unfortunately, the setting compounds the difficulty. The writers seem to  have written this book as a tribute to Canada; the original characters are  mostly Canadian, and the alien world, Nordstral, is astonishingly similar  to northern Canada -- or to what a Californian might think Northern Canada  was like if they'd never actually been there. It's as if they got  everything from an outdated copy of the Encyclopedia Britannica. It's  distracting and at times unintentionally hilarious: in one scene, a  character swears there are no sailboats in Calgary, which might not have  been as funny had I not been on a sailboat in Calgary at the time I read  it.<br />To top it all off, the writing is weak and very uneven. It's as if  one writer contributed the A story, the other the B story, and both  collaborated on the bridges. Unfortunately, it doesn't work.<br />This is  perhaps the weakest of the L.A. Graf collaborations. I don't recommend it.	2000-05-31
US	52955153	R1CYQG2JSWN6EL	0935278443	94418144	Mother Pletsch's Painless Sewing: With Pretty Pati's Perfect Pattern Primer and Ample Annie's Awful but Adequate Artwork	Books	4	10	10	N	Y	Good for the new sewer: a bit cute otherwise	I definitely recommend this book to anyone learning to sew. It gives clear, straightforward instructions on how to construct a garment, how to modify a pattern, and how to choose a pattern and fabric to suit you.<br />The  only qualm I have is that it is just a little too cute. I dislike being  talked down to, and at times I felt this book did that. However, it's a  minor quibble. If you're new to sewing and want to learn how to make that  perfect dress, shirt, or blouse, you should buy this book.	2000-05-30
US	52955153	R22DQSPL6XMYWA	0300060742	198572753	The Journals of James Boswell: 1762-1795	Books	5	17	19	N	Y	A look inside the mind of an engaging scoundrel	James Boswell has been called everything from an engaging gentleman to a vicious scoundrel. A true man of his times, Boswell combined naivete with crudity, tenderness with violence, courtesy with thoughtlessness,  enthusiasm with snobbery, true religious feeling with wanton depravity.<br />But how can so many contradictory traits exist alongside each other in  the same man? And how does that man see himself? This selection of  Boswell's journals attempts to answer that question. Editor John Wain tells  Boswell's story in Boswell's words, through excerpts from his journals,  letters, legal pleadings, and published writings. We learn about his love  life (in some detail), his marriage, his career, his impossible  relationship with his domineering Whig father, and his emotional struggles  in writing the _Life of Johnson_. We also get a concrete feeling for  Boswell's emotional instability, his sense that he would never be good  enough for his father (and he was right, unfortunately), and his tremendous  guilt over his infidelity.<br />This book is an excellent introduction to  James Boswell. I definitely recommend it.	2000-05-30
US	52955153	R8A5ICDDCJCUM	0452274435	312608725	Prozac and the New Antidepressants: What You Need Know abt Prozac Zoloft Paxil Wellbutrin Effeco Serzone Luvox More	Books	4	8	8	N	Y	A little out of date now, but good for what it does cover	This book is an excellent introduction to the selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor (SSRI) antidepressants. Appleton provides the reader with accurate information about this important group of medications, leaving it  to the reader and his doctor to choose an effective remedy to this  all-too-often fatal disease.<br />The only problem is that like most medical  books, this book was obsolete before it was published. New drugs and  non-drug treatments have been developed since _Prozac and the New  Antidepressants_ went to press. A depressive searching for help might do  best by talking to his or her family physician or psychiatrist first.	2000-05-30
US	52955153	R227O4VVCY3APB	0451526023	993821432	My Secret Life	Books	1	7	15	N	Y	Of historical value but not for the average reader	This book is not about sexual expression among consenting adults. It's a deeply disturbing, even repellent, narrative which describes rape, child molestation, bestiality, and other forms of sexual violence in detail.<br />I  gave this book a low rating because I think the general reader would not  enjoy reading it. I do, however, recommend it as a historical text. It  reminds us that even the most genteel, refined society has its dark edge.  As such, it is an important book, especially for students of psychology,  criminology, and Victorian history.	2000-05-30
US	52955153	R1JOIHLZI5KQDM	1887178767	152919429	Samuel Johnson	Books	5	48	49	N	N	A brilliant exploration of a brilliant mind	Most earlier biographies of Johnson have concentrated on the author's public life and his work as a writer. Bate's is the first to zero in on the inner man -- and it succeeds magnificently.<br />In some ways, Johnson's  personality was as complex and as tragic as that of his best-known  biographer, James Boswell. Johnson's towering genius was often at odds with  his uncouth ways, his disfigured face, and his seemingly lunatic tics and  stutters. He controlled his desires and needs with an iron fist of  self-control, often denying himself even the most innocent pleasures in his  never-ending quest for spiritual purity. Bate shows us how Johnson's  neglectful childhood and his crushing poverty as a young man forged his  emotional character, and how his many disappointments as an adult moulded  his spiritual character.<br />The only qualm I have about recommending this  book is that Bate sometimes goes too far in his psychological analysis.  Since this book was published, a consensus has arisen that Johnson suffered  from Tourette's Syndrome, a neurological condition characterized by  ticcing, a quick wit, an unusual gait, and specific personality quirks. If  this is the case, and if many of Johnson's character traits can be  attributed to Tourette's and not emotional damage, much of Bate's analysis  is incorrect.<br />Having said that, I still highly recommend this book. Bate  can't be faulted for omitting a diagnosis that couldn't have been made at  the time he wrote the book. Moreover, the bulk of his analysis is spot-on,  and his love of and respect for the subject of the book are obvious in  every chapter.<br />I highly recommend this book.	2000-05-30
US	52955153	R2SHMB0CKXMPOC	1890208167	360496481	Scandal in Belgravia, A (Missing Mysteries)	Books	5	4	5	N	N	A riveting page-turner	I highly recommend this book to all fans of modern mystery fiction. The writing is taut and vibrant, the characters are strong and well-drawn, and the story is complex enough to be interesting yet simple enough to be  believable.<br />This is an excellent book and I highly recommend it.	2000-05-27
US	52955153	R38YF69UUMECJD	0297786954	447221160	Scandal!: An Encyclopaedia	Books	4	1	1	N	N	A reminder that scandal has always been with us	Colin Wilson's Encyclopaedia of Scandal is a good basic introduction to the scandals and scams of old. He and Donald Seaman describe some of the most notorious scams of the past and explain how they affected public  thinking (and often public policy).<br />I recommend this book to all readers,  but especially to those who look at the past with rose-coloured glasses.	2000-05-27
US	52955153	R2WZYWRYKI5T86	0061054356	501623986	Trek: The Unauthorized A-Z	Books	2	2	2	N	N	Omissions and errors decrease the value of this book	This book is badly edited, sloppily written, and unreliable. Major characters from The Original Series and the movies (Saavik, for instance) are left out while even the most minor character from The Next Generation  receives full coverage. It's also too dated to be of much use to the Deep  Space Nine or Voyager fan.<br />I don't recommend this book.	2000-05-27
US	52955153	R3EE4O2ZLW8COZ	0671799770	697136368	Thin Skins: Thin Skins	Books	4	0	0	N	N	The funniest mystery I've ever read	I hate to even classify _Thin Skins_ as a mystery book. It's more a comedy with a surprise ending than anything else.<br />It's very funny and I highly recommend it.	2000-05-27
US	52955153	RPNENPLMT7VMU	0345298063	451774652	Peter the Great: His Life and World	Books	5	8	8	N	N	The best biography of this century	Peter the Great was a complex, even contradictory character. An all-powerful despot who preferred carpentry to war; a violent spouse-abuser who ensured his wife would rule as Autocrat after his death; a loving  father who caused the death of his only son; Peter was all of these. Yet he  was also a glittering figure on the international stage, a daredevil, a  father to his people, and the most hated, respected, and loved man in  Europe.<br />Who better to explain the psychology and the life of such a man  than Robert Massie? Massie is a superb storyteller, capable of making even  the most complex and abstruse points understandable to the average reader.  He makes Peter come to life, not as a dry, dusty historical character but  as a wonderfully alive, supremely dangerous man -- a man you'd love to meet  but one you'd hate to have to live under.<br />I strongly recommend this book.	2000-05-27
US	52955153	R6BN7QLFBX9H2	0345406400	255997198	The Romanovs: the Final Chapter	Books	5	4	4	N	Y	The perfect companion to _Nicholas and Alexandra_	The recovery of the Romanovs' remains was bedeviled by political infighting on every level. Churches, governments, and scientists turned what should have been a solemn homecoming into a backdrop for petty  internecine fights. Massie cuts through all this petty bickering and  provides the reader with a clear, concise account of the recovery of the  bones and their eventual interment.<br />Those who enjoyed _Nicholas and  Alexandra_ will find this book the perfect companion, but I recommend this  book to anyone interested in Russian history, politics, or religion.	2000-05-27
US	52955153	R109JWVX5I44DO	0156283107	211557706	Elizabeth and Essex: A Tragic History	Books	4	36	38	N	N	Wonderful prose but on shaky ground psychologically	Elizabeth and Essex is perhaps the finest example of Strachey's incomparable style. More poetic than prosaic, ripe with imagery and atmosphere, Strachey's elegant, vigorous prose is a treat to read.<br />This  is all the more unusual given that Strachey is a historian. In most cases,  his style doesn't get in the way of the story; his subjects are usually  represented accurately and with respect.<br />Unfortunately, he doesn't quite  succeed in this case. Strachey's Victorian sensibilities and Freudian view  of his subjects often take him on wild flights of fancy that fail the test  of Occam's razor. For instance, he asserts that Elizabeth was sexually  disorganized based on a smattering of rumours which, he claims, prove that  she had a deep-seated fear of sex and perhaps a hysterical block which  prevented her from engaging in intercourse. Pretty convoluted reasoning,  especially considering the fact that Elizabeth had perfectly sound  political reasons to remain single.<br />Strachey's portrait of Essex is  likewise suspect. He turns the proud scion of an ancient family into a  manic-depressive basket case, but his evidence for this is scanty and his  reasoning difficult to follow. Again, is it really likely that Essex  plotted to overthrow the government because he saw himself as the true King  of England, when a much more simple explanation (he was angry and felt  insulted) comes to mind?<br />Yet even through the flights of psychological  fancy and the wildly improbable motives, Strachey's portrait continues to  enchant. I cannot stress strongly enough how enjoyable and entertaining  this book is. Yes, one does have to take Strachey's explanations with a  grain of salt, but the journey itself is a lot of fun and should not be  missed.<br />I highly recommend this book.	2000-05-27
US	52955153	R16XXBNGEVRH4N	0688126812	430013703	How Does Olive Oil Lose Its Virginity?: Answers to the Enigmatic Questions of Contemporary Life	Books	4	3	6	N	N	Mostly accurate, always entertaining	_Does Olive Oil Lose its Virginity?_ is a highly entertaining book, but it isn't perfect. The minor errors (and one major one -- they're wrong about why a blackhead is black) don't detract from the book's readability or its  general accuracy.<br />I recommend this book.	2000-05-27
US	52955153	R317SF29E032JJ	9163059649	893259305	Queen Victoria's Descendants	Books	5	18	18	N	N	We are amused	Queen Victoria's Descendants lists every known descendant of the queen as of the date of writing. It's a good starting point for those interested in royal history and a valuable reference work for historians and royal  genealogists, but it's also an eye-opener for those who think Victoria's  descendants are all rich, idle jet-setters.<br />I strongly recommend this  book.	2000-05-13
US	52955153	R3DYFTL0FIYNYD	1550137867	370228937	Lord High Executioner: An Unshamed Look at Hangmen, Headsmen, and Their Kind	Books	4	5	7	N	N	An enlightening look at those who enforce the death penalty	If you've ever wondered about the men and women who administer the death penalty, you'll enjoy this work. Engel goes back to Elizabethan times to show how the job of executioner has evolved. He also discusses how those  who fill the position have fared, both inwardly and in society at large,  and makes a case for the inhumanity of capital punishment based on how it  affects those who administer it.<br />Those adamantly in favour of the death  penalty may find Engel's bias offensive. Those adamantly against the death  penalty, however, will find his book enlightening and informative.	2000-03-21
US	52955153	R24LR9GVWCJXB4	0517268256	269305902	Asimov's Guide to Shakespeare: A Guide to Understanding and Enjoying the Works of Shakespeare	Books	4	15	17	N	N	An excellent guide to the plays	Even those of us who enjoy Shakespeare may not catch on to every nuance in his writings. Most of us aren't familiar with the political, religious and historical references that permeate the Bard's work.<br />Asimov's book puts  Shakespeare's plays in context. He explains how Shakespeare manipulated  history to increase the tension and smooth the flow of his stories, and  gives us the background behind the historical plays -- information  Shakespeare's audience would have known, but which we (for the most part)  do not.<br />I recommend this book.	2000-03-21
US	52955153	R1IJB2WRK1QKIF	0879235144	275053600	The Decline and Fall of Practically Everybody	Books	5	6	6	N	N	A hilarious look at the 'good old days'	This book is a gem. Cuppy deflates the so-called 'wisdom of the ancients' through his accurate yet hilarious biographies of some of history's best-known figures. By doing so, he reminds us of how far we have  progressed since those dark days of war, disease, and famine.<br />It's a  very funny book, of course, but one with a message: the good old days  weren't all that good.	2000-03-21
US	52955153	R6JS4RSOHZK5K	0786100141	835931498	Red Horizons	Books	3	17	23	N	N	Self-serving yet a good read	Pacepa's description of life among the Inner Party during the Ceausescu words is chilling. He documents abuses of power, cruelties, and downright stupidities among the ruling elite of Communist Romania, and shows why the  Ceaucescus were so hated (and deservedly so) by average Romanians.<br />It's  too bad that he tries to exculpate himself at the end by showing himself to  be a closet Christian and pro-American. It seems to me that he pulls this  rabbit out of the hat near the end so his American friends and readers will  overlook the murders, tortures and other atrocities he committed and  abetted. (The Karla Faye Tucker defense.) By springing this surprise on the  reader, the author makes us wonder: if he were really the pro-Western  Christian he claims to be, would he have really aquiesced to even one of  the horrors he describes? Wouldn't he have allowed himself to die before  allowing hundreds of innocents to be slaughtered?	1999-12-26
US	52955153	R2XDA8AV57DOXY	0192835319	569572839	Life of Johnson (Oxford World's Classics)	Books	5	8	10	N	Y	The paperback edition is reliable; the hardcover's suspect	For those interested in a reliable text, I suggest the &quot;World's Classics&quot; paperback edition. The hardcover edition, while attractive, is somewhat suspect.	1999-12-21
US	52955153	R310BH3Z5SJ425	0312087012	806639526	Balkan Ghosts: A Journey Through History	Books	4	9	15	N	N	Good journalism makes everybody mad	I'm pleased that so many people take exception to this book. Good journalism is always biased: a writer is not an automaton, but a real person who brings his own belief system to the work at hand.<br />Not  surprisingly, this annoys a lot of people. Tough. The journalist has as  much right to his opinion as the reviewer has to his. Let's face it: we're  all biased. We all think 'unbiased' means 'the writer sees things exactly  as I do'.<br />We also all tend to conveniently ignore facts which don't fit  in our view of things. The Serb ignores reports of Kosovar women nailed to  barn walls and gang-raped to death; the Kosovar ignores reports of entire  Serb villages massacred and plowed under. Extreme examples, but on a  smaller scale we are *all like that*.<br />The point is, condemning a reporter  for being biased is the pot calling the kettle black. If we weren't biased,  we wouldn't write reviews.	1999-12-21
US	52955153	R2YXR8PCCN1O2P	0440363586	169523236	Nicholas and Alexandra	Books	4	10	11	N	N	Why it doesn't pay to marry for love, at least for a Czar	Robert Massie's book is spellbinding. I've reread it a dozen times, and each time I haven't been able to put it down. He paints such a vivid picture of the Imperial family, the Russian people, Rasputin, and the  terror and uncertainty of the Revolution and its aftermath that I find it  difficult to believe he wasn't there.<br />I'm especially taken by his  description of the relationship between Nicholas and Alexandra. He loved  her, respected her, and valued her advice; but he may have been wrong to do  so. It may have been his fatal mistake. Superstitious, distrustful and  pathologically shy, Alix of Hesse-Darmstadt was not cut out to be the  consort of an autocrat. When disaster struck, as it did when Alexei's  hemophilia was diagnosed, she made poor decisions and refused to listen to  wiser counsel. She may not have been the sole or even the main trigger of  the Revolution, but a stronger wife would have made Nicholas a stronger  czar, able to fight the Bolsheviks and win. Alexandra merely gave the  enemies of the Czar another reason for revolution.<br />My only concern with  this book is that Massie was born too early (or wrote the book too soon).  We've learned a great deal in the past few years about the fate of the  Romanovs and their last days at Yekaterinburg. Massie of course couldn't  have known that the official story of the Imperial Family's death was a  lie; a reasonable reader wouldn't expect him to. However, those who use  _Nicholas and Alexandra_ as a historical text would profit from further  reading.	1999-12-21
US	52955153	R1SK57DDJO3X0M	1853266795	361283008	The Duke (Wordsworth Collection)	Books	3	2	5	N	N	More style than substance, but still worth reading	The cover blurb calls Guedalla's style 'glittering' and 'epigrammatic'; I'd call it tortuous and frustrating. How sad that the definitive biography of the taciturn, straightforward Duke of Wellington is so wordy and vague.	1999-12-18
US	52955153	R4JFOWG6M29GS	0375700730	496848842	The Island of the Colorblind	Books	5	0	0	N	N	He makes you see through new (if slightly different) eyes	When is a disability not a disability? When everyone is disabled, perhaps.<br />Sacks takes us to an island where a large proportion of the population are achromatopes; they can't see colour. He then contrasts their struggles with that of an achromatope living in Western society. The differences in  their experiences are remarkable.<br />I always like how Sacks brings the  entire setting to life. He doesn't interest you in just the patients; he  paints a living, even colourful, picture of their life and society. (Pun  not intended.)	1999-12-17
US	52955153	R10EVAYMSDER9W	0060988061	187685726	Double Take: The Art of the Celebrity Makeover	Books	5	3	4	N	N	The truth is in the details	Devon Cass takes celebrity impersonators (who run the gamut from looking somewhat like the celeb to being virtually identical) and shows how they create the look. I was surprised by the detail that goes into every makeup  job; sometimes it's not the gross features but the little things -- tiny  birthmarks, dimples, the line of the lower lip -- that bring out the  similarity.<br />I found it useful (I've worked as a Fergie lookalike in the  past) and also entertaining. Highly recommended	1999-12-17
US	52955153	R3W5DV2HLPFZDH	0684853949	358452686	The Man Who Mistook His Wife For A Hat: And Other Clinical Tales	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Well-written and sympathetic; not condescending	I always find Sacks's works well-written and moving. He seems to have the gift of putting himself in the patient's place, never condescending, always accepting.<br />It's unfortunate perhaps that some reviewers find Sacks 'disrespectful' to the 'mentally ill'. But Sacks's patients aren't mentally  ill; they have neurological illnesses. To confuse the two is to grievously  insult both the mentally ill *and* the neurologically ill. As a neuro  patient I've had my fill of the falsely kind, condescending and ignorant;  Sacks is none of the above, and that is why his works are so  appealing.	1999-12-17
US	52955153	R32BY8SKDC02BD	055305323X	760817684	Born Royal	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Stop the story, I'm out of research notes!	As far as it goes, Born Royal is an interesting view into the lives of George V's children. The problem is that it doesn't go far enough.<br />The author spends far too much time on David (the Duke of Windsor) and his  younger brother Bertie (George VI), who have already been the subjects of  numerous biographies, and gives George V's other children short shrift.  It's unfortunate, given that there isn't much written about them. Hough  apparently referred mainly to research he undertook while writing his books  on the Mountbattens; since Mary, George, Henry and John didn't figure much  in those books, they don't figure much here.	1999-06-18
US	52955153	RIYG5ID4QZE6J	0553225308	884270181	Red Threads (Rex Stout Library)	Books	2	9	13	N	N	More bologna than Saucisse Minuit	It comes as a surprise that Rex Stout, the master of dialogue and characterization, could have written this book. Simply put, Red Threads is dull. The writer tells us too much and shows us too little. The protagonist is little more than a bundle of mannerisms, lacking the spark of reality which enlivens Stout's more famous creations, Archie Goodwin and Nero Wolfe.<br />I was disappointed, and I don't recommend this book.	1999-06-18
US	52955153	R3JKH1D4OU9IHK	006097673X	581209023	Autobiography of a Face	Books	4	15	19	N	N	Self-recognition, not self-pity	In &quot;Autobiography of a Face&quot;, Lucy Grealy explores how her disfigurement from cancer surgery came to be the central theme of her life and that of her family.<br />Even the title shows how Grealy has identified  herself with her face above all else. The autobiography of Lucy Grealy has  become the autobiography of her face because for a great part of her life  Ms. Grealy was nothing more than a face, or at least it seemed so. Doctors,  fellow students, family members, and complete strangers see not a woman  with a disfigured face; they see a disfigured face.<br />Grealy shows how she  also falls under the spell of her disability, allowing it to control her  life and dictate her future to a greater extent than it otherwise would.  Yes, having a disability means that sometimes you have to say &quot;I'm  disabled, therefore I can't....&quot;, but as Grealy finally learns, it  also means sometimes saying &quot;I'm disabled, but I can!&quot;.<br />All in  all this is an inspiring book, one I'm glad I read and one I would highly  recommend, especially to other disabled readers.	1999-06-18
US	52955153	R29GX1OBPSQ8K6	0941522067	274493743	Color Me a Season: How to Find and Use Your Most Flattering Colors	Books	1	26	34	N	N	A good try, but badly edited and unconvincing	I bought Color Me a Season hoping to learn more about which colours would best suit my complexion. Unfortunately, I found Ms. Kentner's instructions confusing, her writing uneven and poorly edited, and her methodology more  dependent on New Age psychobabble than on common sense or beauty  basics.<br /><br />Color Me A Season seems to me to be nothing more than an overdone  knockoff of the famous Colour Me Beautiful books written by Doris Pooser  and the CMB organization. That group uses common sense to help women find  the colours which best suit them. Ms. Kentner, on the other hand, uses a  mixture of CMB's technique, pop psychology, iridology, and basic makeup and  hair techniques.<br /><br />Those of us who know our colours well -- and especially  those of us who are redheads or women of colour -- realize that the CMB  colour categories leave a lot to be desired. Ms. Kentner attempts to remedy  this by introducing the idea of associations -- for example, a redhead such  as myself would be a Spring with shades of Autumn. Fair enough: I figured  that out a long time ago, but appreciate the reassurance. Unfortunately,  Ms. Kentner fails to do the same thing for a much large group of women who  are also underserved by the CMB groupings -- women of colour. The reader of  African or Native Canadian/American descent would not find this book to be  an improvement on CMB.<br /><br />I find Ms. Kentner's claims that personality and  the pattern of one's iris also affect one's 'season' unconvincing. It  smacks to me of self-fulfilling prophecy -- if the subject sees herself as  a Winter, she will see the Winter range of temperament in herself, when in  reality we all have the good and bad personality traits of all colours  within ourselves.<br /><br />The biggest criticism I have is in regard to the book's  layout, editing and composition. The book is full of typographical errors  which at times make it difficult to understand the writer. Some of the  sketches seem to be inaccurate (such as the sketch of a \\"carrot top  redhead\\" which in fact is a sketch of a light-hair blonde). One sketch  in particular I assume will be changed before the next edition -- it seems  to represent a grey-haired version of the Princess of Wales, which in light  of recent events is certainly inappropriate.<br /><br />One final comment --  although the hair and makeup advice given would have been appropriate for  the year of publication, it's of course outdated. Love your face the shape  it is -- oval is not better.a \\"carrot top  redhead\\" which in fact is a sketch of a light-hair blonde). One sketch  in particular I assume will be changed before the next edition -- it seems  to represent a grey-haired version of the Princess of Wales, which in light  of recent events is certainly inappropriate.    One final comment --  although the hair and makeup advice given would have been appropriate for  the year of publication, it's of course outdated. Love your face the shape  it is -- oval is not better.	1999-06-10
