US	52952536	R3A7V6IHLQUKXI	0810845148	413909073	Good Intentions are not Enough: Transformative Leadership for Communities of Difference	Books	3	4	4	N	Y	Interesting, I guess	I read this book as part of a research project, and found it both interesting and frustrating. The book is a lengthy consideration of how to build schools that support diverse student populations and allow as many children (and their communities) to flourish as possible.     In general, this book contains many interesting ideas, and some specific guidelines for achieving the kinds of change the author advocates. Even though the book was interesting and held my attention all the way through, in the end, I found it somewhat unsatisfying.     One problem is that the writing is awkward; in addition to weak organization of some ideas, the authorial voice seems determined to distance itself from any passion about its subject. Another problem is that the book's sources are almost all already secondary or tertiary sources, which means that many of the ideas described have been diluted to the point where it was hard to recognize their origins. Finally, I found some of the arguments to be so convoluted that i never figured out exactly what the author was trying to say.     Frankly, if this author abandoned the attempt to write with an objective \\"scholarly\\" voice, the book would have been much better. I had high hopes for this book, and they were only partially fulfilled.	2004-11-03
US	52952536	RW7O31FWHW8B4	0393318885	27174518	The Wealth and Poverty of Nations: Why Some Are So Rich and Some So Poor	Books	4	26	29	N	Y	The other half of a pair of indispensible books	I did not agree with everything in this book, but I sure learned a lot from reading it.  <br /> <br />I read this book because I was starting to read John Hobson's _Eastern_Origins_of_Western_Civilisation_. In Hobson's introduction, he made it clear that his book is largely a response to the view of history represented by the book I am reviewing right now. I stopped reading Hobson's book and read this one first, and I am very glad I did. (For one thing, Landes has written a terrific example of a history book that is actually enjoyable to read, as well as informative.) <br /> <br />As a conversation, these two books have a great deal to offer. Neither is completely balanced, but between them, they cover a great deal of ground, both in terms of historical content and in terms of how the two authors understand the same events. Reading these two books together taught me a great deal, both about history, and about the historian's profession. <br /> <br />I strongly recommend that if you read one of these two books, you read the other. Be warned that if you agree with one, the other will probably infuriate you, but if you can stay the course, you will be both better informed and a bit wiser at the end of it all.	2004-11-03
US	52952536	RMD43Y6K5M2TR	0521547245	475080367	The Eastern Origins of Western Civilisation	Books	4	59	65	N	Y	Half of a pair of books everyone should read	I did not agree with everything in this book, but I sure learned a lot from reading it.  <br /> <br />When I read the introduction, it became clear to me that this book is part of an on-going conversation among historians wrestling with the question of why \\"the West\\" has dominated the world stage. In fact, this author refers to David Landes' _The_Wealth_and_Poverty_of_Nations_ in a way that makes it clear that Hobson is responding to Landes. So I put this book aside long enough to read Landes' book first.  <br /> <br />As a conversation, these two books have a great deal to offer. Neither is completely balanced, but between them, they cover a great deal of ground, both in terms of historical content and in terms of how the two authors understand the same events. Reading these two books together taught me a great deal, both about history, and about the historian's profession. <br /> <br />I strongly recommend that if you read one of these two books, you read the other. Be warned that if you agree with one, the other will probably infuriate you, but if you can stay the course, you will be both better informed and a bit wiser at the end of it all.	2004-11-03
US	52952536	R1FFHDCENQZQC0	0743488520	742790906	The Shadow of Saganami (Saganami Island)	Books	5	53	53	N	Y	Weber at his best	As Honor Harrington has progressed in her career, she has had to abandon the command of a starship, in order to take on squadron and then fleet command. While this is good for her, it's not as good for readers, because David Weber is at his best, I think, when he is telling the story of a single starship captain and what such a person and a dedicated crew can do when faced with a critical choice or puzzling-and-threatening situation.    In this book, Weber returns to the world of a single starship, in the service of the Star Kingdom of Manticore. Honor Harrington appears briefly in the book, but it is not a book about her at all. Instead, it is about a new generation of officers, serving on a heavy cruiser. It's a great piece of standard Weber space opera: fun to read, and a bit overloaded with heavy exposition (I'd ding it half a star for the somewhat awkward expository passages if that were possible, but it's not).    At first, I thought the book would not hold my attention, but I was wrong. Once I sorted out who all the players were, this was a rollicking good read. It's not deep or particularly meaningful, but it is an excellent example of the kind of book it set out to be; the five stars are for the good story, the interesting characters, and the excellent fit between the plot and the writing (but as I mentioned above, I wish I could ding it half a star). Highly recommended to anyone who enjoyed the early Honor Harrington books.	2004-11-03
US	52952536	R2G5JGP4TQKSD7	073820529X	160578614	The Way Of Transition: Embracing Life's Most Difficult Moments	Books	5	26	27	N	Y	Astonishing and wonderful	This is a engrossing book about what happens when a person who has made a career out of understanding \\"transitions\\" (and helping other people and organizations through times of transition) comes face to face with a gigantic transition. As Bridges dealt with the death of his wife and the concomitant end of a lengthy marriage, he found himself wondering if he really understood transitions at all. This book is the story of how he navigated that period in his life, how he achieved a new understanding of everything that had gone before, and what it has meant to him since. <br /> <br />There is a lot going on in this book. On one level, it is the story of a marriage. On another level, it is the story of how truly immersing oneself in the transitions one encounters can deepen a person's relationship both to the self and to the personal history that has created that self. And then there is the general philosophical musing about how a person can open himself to the possibilities that come with major life changes. It's not a book of ideas about what to do (for that, the same author has a couple of other books on transition), but instead it's a deeply personal reflection on the meaning of life and life's transitions. <br /> <br />Highly recommended for anyone who is of a contemplative turn of mind.	2004-11-03
US	52952536	R3L20HI9UKN6SA	0743235916	247955082	Call of the Mall: The Geography of Shopping by the Author of Why We Buy	Books	2	1	1	N	Y	A disappointing second book	I very much enjoyed Paco Underhill's first book about shopping, _Why_We_Buy_. Therefore, I was looking forward to this new effort with a great deal of anticipation, most of which was disappointed. Somewhere in this book is approximately one essay worth of interesting material; unfortunately, it's smeared all over a longer book that doesn't really stand up to the material. <br /> <br />I really wanted to like this book, but I did not. If you haven't read the first book, skip this one, and read that one. it was a great book. This was a waste of my time.	2004-11-02
US	52952536	R19CLSIHNDPKQE	0553585894	686260074	The Seducer	Books	3	51	54	N	Y	Good or bad? Depends what you compare it to...	I like a good escapist read as much as anyone else. Some time ago, I happened on Madeline Hunter's medieval novels. I liked a lot of things about them. Most important, they did not contain anachronisms. The people in them acted like people who lived then really acted. Women in her books acted like it was normal to be treated as pawns in political marriages, even if they did not like it. (Just as an aside, I always hate it when heroines are outraged at arranged marriages, when they grew up in a class and society where that is the norm -- anachronism destroys suspension of disbelief.) Within this setting, her medieval novels contained interesting characters who had true human depth. Those characters were not stereotypes. I found all her books well worth reading, and worth keeping. Engrossing, well-plotted and paced, with compelling characters, they provided me with wonderful escape reading.<br />But I am really a sucker for a good regency romance, so I was very excited when I heard that this same author had decided to write a series of books set in my favorite period. This is the first book in that series. While the book remains more true to its historical time than many set in this time period, it is in many ways a weaker book than her earlier efforts. The first thing I noticed is that the plotting was heavy-handed. It was obvious what was going on long before she revealed the details, which even made it easy to guess who some of the mystery characters would turn out to be. Moreover, I did not feel connected to the heroine. She struck me as alternately stupid and vapid, with occasional flashes of the kind of emotional strength required to lure a man away from a life focused on revenge. The plot is a well-worn enough one that the in this kind of book, the characters and writing have to carry the book, and these characters were not strong enough (nor was the writing graceful enough) to do that.<br />This was still far better a book than most historical romances set inthis time period, and it was not a complete waste of my time to read it. However, compared to what she has done in the past, Madeline Hunter disappointed me this time around.	2004-01-30
US	52952536	R1S362TCT1FWZ8	0787902772	393830346	The Abilene Paradox and Other Meditations on Management	Books	5	2	3	N	Y	Wonderful advice, coming and going	The Abilene Paradox... has been one of my favorite books for many years. Whenever I read it, I find something of value in it for whatever challenges I am facing in my work. Plus, it's just fun to read. The first essay (the actual Abilene Paradox) should be required reading for anyone who wonders why groups do stupid things. And the last essay (on teaching future managers to cheat) should be required reading for anyone who wonders how one simple change could make a huge difference in business education, making it more relevant and more solidly ethically based. Everything in between these two essays is worth, reading, too.	2004-01-25
US	52952536	R3JW3ILDRK8LFB	0803279957	188392745	The Sokal Hoax: The Sham That Shook the Academy	Books	5	17	20	N	Y	Balanced coverage of the entire mess	Regardless of whether you think Alan Sokal is a hero or a rogue, a brilliant crusader for intellectual standards or a crass fool who made himself and the &quot;science establishment&quot; look stupid with his prank, you should read this book.<br />In this book, the editors of Lingua Franca have assembled all the documents you need to understand what really happened. You can read the hoax paper in its entirety. You can read the article that revealed it as a hoax. You can read the response by the editors of Social Text. You can read what the press had to say, what intellectuals on both sides of the issue have said about the hoax, and what people writing in other countries have made of the whole thing.<br />Lately, the Sokal hoax has been on my mind a lot, and I find that I need to explain it to people who never heard of it, before I can talk about it. This book is the perfect answer to the question &quot;where can I read more about it?&quot; What I like about this book is that it represents all sides of the debate with their own words, and leaves it to the reader to make her own decision where she stands on the issues raised by the prank.	2004-01-25
US	52952536	R1F05GXJDK0BSQ	1400040507	590787551	Small Things Considered: Why There Is No Perfect Design	Books	3	28	28	N	Y	This should have been a 5-star book	This book is written by someone who has written other wonderful books about what it means to be an engineer. The topic of this book -- the design of everyday items -- should offer sufficient scope for another interesting book. And indeed, the book has lots of interesting information in it. The main thesis (that design is always imperfect, and the reasons why this is so) seems as if it ought to be sufficiently engaging to hold my attention through a book-length engagement with it.<br />Alas, the book is so poorly written that it fails on all levels. I gave it three stars because it was quite educational. On the other hand, given the author's track record and the inherent interest of the topic, three stars is an enormous disappointment. Finishing the book was hard, and I would not blame anyone who just gave up. Perhaps the author had a half-book worth of content and was forced to bulk it up to make the required word count? I don't know what happened, but I can't really recommend the book unless you are desperate to know how the paper cup came to be invented.	2004-01-25
US	52952536	R2JHVSE06TKUQI	0807072354	71365556	I Begin My Life All Over: The Hmong and the American Immigrant Experience	Books	5	5	5	N	Y	A book that lives up to its title....	This is an astonishing book. The author, working with a Hmong colleague, collected many moving oral histories. She then wove them together into an astonishing tour-de-force.<br />This book provides a voice to Hmong people, telling their stories in their own words. At the same time, Faderman places the Hmong experience in the larger context of the experience of leaving one's home to come to the United States as an immigrant. Using the particular experiences of her Hmong informants, as well as her own history growing up as the child of an immgrant, she sheds light on the general topic of what it means to be an immigrant in this country.<br />For most US residents, there is immigration somewhere in our histories; this book speaks to how our families were profoundly affected by the dislocation and courage of these immgrants, whether they are ourselves, our parents, or lurking in the more distant past. <br />I can't imagine a better book on this topic.	2004-01-25
US	52952536	R2LRT1WAZEPCEX	0394706315	804321287	Interaction Ritual - Essays on Face-to-Face Behavior	Books	4	38	56	N	Y	Needs a 21st-century filter	Edgar Schein recommended this book, so I read it. I'm glad I did. Goffman is fascinated by what happens when people engage one another face-to-face, and the essays in this book synthesize many years of observation, research and deep thinking on this topic. There is much to learn in the book, and it's even well-written and filled with interesting anecdotes that illustrate his points.<br />However, the book was written at a time when psychologists made no distinction between the social actiions of men and women. In this book, &quot;a person&quot; is always male. It's easy to see that the book was written long before Deborah Tannen came along, and it suffers from that.	2004-01-25
US	52952536	R2BSVJENGD261A	0674445880	616589107	In Over Our Heads: The Mental Demands of Modern Life	Books	5	100	104	N	N	How Do You Think?	I was amazed by this book. I was reading it when we left for a two-day driving trip. Even though I am unable to read in a moving car, I kept it near at hand to read whenever we stopped at a rest area or gas station. It was so compelling that when I finished it, I immediately tossed it back near the top of my to-read pile. The second time through, I found that it had just as much to offer (if not more) as it had the first time.<br />Every once in awhile, I run across a book that helps me reorganize the way I think about the world. This is such a book. Through the use of examples and detailed examination of various aspects of modern life, Kegan considers what kinds of demands the world puts on us for thinking and relating. He makes a very solid case that cognitive development does not end after one passes through the developmental stages of childhood and adolescence (magical, concrete and abstract).<br />By carefully considering what it is exactly that we ask adolescents to do in making the transition from concrete to abstract cognition, Kegan sets the groundwork for a careful explantion of what the next order of thought is, what it looks like, and how the modern world demands that we master it. he looks in detail at just what we ask from adults in the areas of parenting, partnering, work, dealing with differnce, healing and learning. In each case, he shows that the modern world is set up so that people thrive best if they can use what he calls a fourth-order way of relating to the world, other people, and oneself.<br />This book helped me understand observations that had puzzled me, and suggests ways in which adult education theories (which generally drive me crazy) need to be expanded to explain what really happens when adults come together to learn.<br />One very interesting thing about this book is that Kegan is able to report on research studies that support his theory. Probably the most important thing this book does is to provide a framework for considering people in the context of how they individually construct the world and their relationship to it, which allows me to judge whether a person is authentic, courageuos or generous on his own terms, not on mine.eople in the context of how they individually construct the world and their relationship to it, which allows me to judge whether a person is authentic, courageuos or generous on his own terms, not on mine.	2004-01-01
US	52952536	R3DUCNX54IG5OZ	0743486226	141370518	Angels & Demons	Books	3	1	4	N	Y	Pretty good, pretty annoying	I read this book because a bunch of people told me I should read \\"The Da Vinci Code\\", and I learned that this was an earlier book in the same \\"series\\". I felt i should read this one first, especially since I could get it in paperback. I am not usually a thriller fan (I've only read two thrillers previously that I really liked, despite occasionally trying others). <br />Anyway, I got the book and started reading it with some trepidation. The extremely gruesome beginning nearly put me off the book, and certainly made me think it was going to be a lot more viscerally gross than it turned out to be. However, I kept with it, and finally made it to the end. It's a pretty good book, but a couple times, I nearly threw it across the room.<br />Other reviewers here have donee a good job of explaining what is good about the book (lots of interesting puzzles, a fast-paced twisty plot, decent pacing, the concatanation of myriad random things into a rational pattern, and some interesting philosophical issues to wrestle with), so I won't belabor them. it was a fun book to read, and at the end, I did not feel I had wasted my time, as I so often do when I read thrillers.<br />That having been said, I found lots of things annoying about the book, and sometimes, it was hard to keep myself from flinging it out the window. The heavy-handed foreshadowing (starting with the comment on page 23 -- paperback edition -- about how some random fact he had just learned was going to save his life later tonight in another country) drove me nuts. I don't mind cardboard characters in a plot-driven novel like this, but I think that cardboard characters should refrain from changing their fundamental natures with no explanation. When the final plot twist depends on someone being other than who the reader thinks that person was, there should have been subtle signs of that earlier, which the reader can review in her mind and say, \\"Aha! I missed that!\\" Plus, the entire plot depends on Langdon's intuitionbeing very very shrewd, so the occasional failures of his intuition were very noticeable. (like when he climbed onto the helicopter so he could make use of the random fact he had learned on page 23). Finally, the notion that a bunch of Renaissance scientists would have chosen English as their \\"pure language\\", while explained cleverly in the plot, is just too convenient, and broke my suspension of disbelief. I had to put the book down for a day or two after that happened before I could resume the roller coaster ride.<br />I've heard that many of the heavy-handed writing problems are gone in the sequel, so I will probably read it. In the end, this book was not a waste of my time, but it did not make it onto my list of \\"thrillers for the ages\\".<br />Oh, and comparisons to Umberto Eco simply serve to underline the deficiencies of this novel.	2003-07-13
US	52952536	R23H3RREYYJQY8	1579900275	59847348	The New Knitting Stitch Library: Over 300 Traditional and Innovative Stitch Patterns Illustrated in Color and Explained with Easy-to-Follow Charts	Books	5	8	8	N	Y	easy to navigate, easy to use	I own several stitch guides. This is one of my favourites. The thing that distinguishes it from others is the part in the front where there is a small version of each stitch, so it is easy to find the stitch you are looking for. The chart technique for describing the stitches is different from most stitch guides, but it works fine. In addition, they've done all the samples in neutral colored yarns, so it is easy to see how the stitches compare.	2002-11-25
US	52952536	R10C12OXQXRFL8	0761101144	844459571	Shoes: A Celebration of Pumps, Sandals, Slippers & More	Books	5	15	17	N	Y	tiny package, HUGE fun	This book contains fluent, erudite words about shoes, but who cares? The point of the book is the luscious photography -- beautiful, enticing images of a large number of shoes. <br />If you have friends who also love shoes, get a copy for each one and you can sit around for hours saying \\"omigosh, look at page 501!\\" and \\"wow, Carly Jane, page 347 is just what you need!\\" This is a whole lot more fun than it sounds, actually.<br />And you can always place the book on your coffee table where it will (a) take up very little physical space and (b) end up enticing everyone who sits down in your living room into developing a shoe fetish.<br />Seriously, this is a well-researched, beautifully photographed, elegantly written gem of a book. If you happen to like shoes, you really owe it to yourself to obtain a copy of it.	2002-11-25
US	52952536	R19FGY8HWKFYZR	0786867647	913320116	Lucky Man: A Memoir	Books	5	7	11	N	Y	I hate celebrity bios, but I love this book!	I read this book only because I saw Michael J Fox on Charlie Rose. During the show, parts of the book were read out loud, and I just had to read the rest. Still, I really didn't know what to expect. Generally, I hate books written by celebrities, with or without ghost-writing help. I hate the \\"look at me\\" aspects of most of these books, the superficiality, the gloss.<br />This book has none of those features. This is a book written by a man who has gone (and continues to go) through a series of wildly implausible adventures. From his early, almost accidental, startdom, through his marriage which has somehow defied all the odds for a Hollywood marriage, through his diagnosis with early-onset Parkinson's disease, nothing in this man's life could have been predicted.<br />Michael J Fox has dived deep into his own psyche and come back to tell us what he found there. With compassion for himself and for the other people he has known in his life, he describes what it was like to be so successful, to experience fame as a drug (almost) that distanced him from some levels of reality, and then to have it all taken away. And he did it himself. This book was not ghostwritten, and the beauty of some passages makes it hard to believe that the author is not a professional writer. The fact that the prose was not mediated by a ghost-writer also makes the book more immediate and accessible.<br />I do not have words to do justice to the honesty, the compassion, and the courage that I found in this book. All I can say is what I have been saying to people ever since I read it: \\"I know, I know, it's a celebrity autobiography. Read it anyway.\\"	2002-08-27
US	52952536	R2O81D51JJV2O5	0520200829	34366651	Erotic Faculties	Books	2	7	10	N	Y	Oops	I did not like this book as much as I expected to. I admit to having been *really* looking forward to reading it. But I ended up not caring much for what I read. <br />It's hard to say specifically why I disliked it. It may be that (like \\"The Vagina Monologues\\"), this material works much better in performance. But I think it alse had to do with the odd confluence of academic writing with prose that was clearly intended to be something else entirely. I kept wanting to think that these dissonances I was experiencing were intentional and that they had some kind of meaning. But in the end, I couldn't find one.<br />Another issue I had was that the book seemed really deeply rooted in heterosexuality. Which is fine, except that it seemed like the author was trying to be more universal.<br />Finally, I lost interest. This is one of the few books I have failed to finish reading. And I don't expect to return to it later. In fact, I have already given it away to someone else who said she wanted it.	2002-08-27
US	52952536	R3BKLRAX0P1PYY	0743214277	479818734	Why Is It Always About You?: The Seven Deadly Sins of Narcissism	Books	3	152	169	N	Y	good overview	I admit to being disappointed in this book. Even so, it was a useful overview of a pervasive problem, one that faces most of us much of the time: how do we deal with self-absorbed narrcisists without being untrue to ourselves?<br />Things I liked about the book include the use of illuminating examples, the checklists and suggested courses of action in dealing with particular kinds of issues, and the excellent explanation of what narrcissism is and where it comes from. In fact, the examples she gave of narcissism in action were all extremely good and useful. After reading several books on the subject, I have to say I think she does the best job of providing examples and elucidating them.<br />Things I did not like about the book include the fact that since she covers so very much ground, much of it is covered superficially. One thing she did frequently that eventually grated on me a lot was to include a disclaimer right before offering advice about how to proceed in some particular kind of encounter with a narcissist. This disclamer essentially said &quot;make sure you aren't being guilty of any narcissism before you start&quot;. Well, that makes sense. But one of the things the book makes clear is that narcissists can't really see that they are doing anything wrong at all. And so, I had to wonder exactly how is the reader supposed to determine whether, in this case, she is acting rationally or narcissistically? <br />In conjunction with other books, I think this one is useful. However, be prepared for a certain level of superficiality.	2002-08-27
US	52952536	R21CBUC5UHE0E2	0312288115	370098606	Confessions of a Sociopathic Social Climber: The Katya Livingston Chronicles	Books	3	4	4	N	Y	surprisingly enjoyable, but not worth keeping....	I liked this book. I enjoyed hating the narrator and I loved the ways in which she got her come-uppance over and over again, and never seemed to learn from it. Adele Lang managed something interesting by keeping Katya in character throughout the entire book. It was refreshing to read a book that did not have a predictable ending, and where the bad guys were not redeemed.<br />On the other hand, this book is a one-trick pony. There is exactly one thing going on in it, and if it had been even one page longer, I expect I would have gotten tired of it. Moreover, I found I had no desire ever to read it again. Since I was in Manila when I read it, I declined to offer it space in my suitcase on the way home. <br />If you like this kind of thing, then you will like this book. It's done extremely well here. However, it's all taste and no substance. Which may be the point, I suppose. Still, I was ultimately disappointed.	2002-08-27
US	52952536	R28D71A16OEKUM	0670878839	302291051	The Alphabet Versus the Goddess: The Conflict Between Word and Image	Books	2	153	183	N	Y	Thought-provoking, irritating and ultimately disappointing	I really thought I was going to like this book. Shalin is (ironically) a very stylistic writer, whose affinity for the written word and the English language give his prose a luminous quality. The premise of the book is fascinating. He provides an interesting overview of Western history, and re-interprets many events and developments in light of his thesis.<br />However. Here is a list of the ways in which this book disappointed me:<br />1. Near the start of the book, he says he is going to survey the available explanations for the historical developments he traces, and show why his theory is the one that explains the historical facts the best. He doesn't do this. His general approach is to show how some \\"bad\\" development followed immediately on the introduction of an alphabetic form of writing, or the printing press, or an increase in literacy. Although he says that he understands the difference between correlation and causality, in the end, he mostly presents correlations in time.<br />2. Along the same lines, he fails to provide any cogent analysis of what is wrong with competing theories for the rising dominance of men in Western society (he mentions the horticulture-to-agriculture shift theory, but simply dismisses it without explaining why this explanation is wrong or incomplete).<br />3. He takes odd little detours. I never did figure out what the chapter on Ganymede and Sappho had to do with his thesis. <br />4. By the end of the book, the chapters became tediously repetitious. Basically, each one consisted of a description of some heinous development in Western culture, the establishment of some time-based correlation between this development and an increase in literacy, followed by the assertion that this was further proof that alphabets cause horrible problems.<br />5. His entire premise relies on the equation of left brain with masculine (and thus with males), versus the right brain with feminine (and thus with females). He fails to distinguish between the social constructs of masculine/feminine and biological sex. He ignores all the studies which show that the differences within each sex (on this masculine/feminine scale) are far greater than between the sexes. <br />6. Whenever he encounters a woman who thrives in a \\"masculine\\" environment, he adduces this as evidence of that particular woman being co-opted by the over-emphasis on the left brain. He never seems to question the degree to which his thesis is affected by the culture in which he is located -- to what degree can he universalize a theory tied so deeply to a particular notion of masculine and feminine that come so cleary from the time and place in which he lives.<br />Interestingly, Shalin seems to recognize the irony of his entire project (using alphabet-based writing and logical thinking to debunk the same...). Therefore, he occasionally makes a point of saying that alphabets aren't *all* bad. It's just that whenever there's an increase in alphabetic literacy, then there is a corresponding social disruption. <br />In the end I found the book to be based on an interesting idea, but altoghter too dogmatic in expounding the idea. And this dogmatism makes the argument ultimately unpersuasive to me.	2002-08-24
US	52952536	R2X2LWAWLAE3IZ	0688177751	445501217	Miss Julia Speaks Her Mind: A Novel	Books	1	40	59	N	Y	yech...	First off, let me say that I *like* sentimental books where everything works out beautifully in the end. I have an abiding affection for mind candy of many kinds, and this genre is one of the ones I generally enjoy. I like the Elm Creek Quilters series. I even like the Mitford books.<br />Second, let me say that I adore books with oddball southern women taking on the world and winning. Fannie Flagg's books are among my favourites. I love _Cold_Sassy_Creek_. I even like Bailey White's books.<br />So I should have loved this book. I certainly had high hopes for it. A great title. A cover blurb from Fannie Flagg (who should stop blurbing books and get back to writing!)<br />But I hated it. For the first few pages, I liked Miss Julia. Then I hated her. She talks like a third-rate stereotype in a cheesy movie. She seems to be about as smart as a door, and not nearly as clever. And she didn't solve her own problems at all.<br />However, I also hate to stop reading books part way through, so I read it to the last page. I wish I had not. I'm sure the joke about her dreadful disease was meant to be funny, but I found it stupid and annoying. In fact, even if I had liked the rest of the book, I think that this would have ruined it for me, anyway.<br />I'm sorry I hated the book so much, because it appears to be a literary franchise, and if I liked it, I would have had a set of other books to read and enjoy.<br />Having said all that... I know lots of people love these books, and I can even sort of see why. But this one did not work for me, largely because I thought the narrator was an idiot with no real redeeming features.	2002-07-16
US	52952536	R28FEOWJBZRS1E	1890447269	311322713	My Misspent Youth: Essays	Books	3	22	24	N	Y	Read this book in bits...	Meghan Daum is undoubtedly a skilled writer. She has a keen eye, when she uses it. She is also arrogant, a bit of a snob and very very young. <br />I've been enjoying her essays in various magazines for some time now, and I was interested to learn that there is a collection of her writing, so I bought the book. As I started to read, I discovered that the essays started to run together in my mind. I was occasinally stopped short by her arrogance. When I read one essay at a time, these things did not happen, and I could go back to enjoying the fluently written, nicely observed essays about not much of anything. On the other hand, when I read them in a group, the weaknesses were more evident and the effect more of a whine.<br />So, my advice is that if you like this kind of thing (smooth writing, essays making much of very little), you may well enjoy this book. I just urge you not to take the edge off by reading it all at once.	2002-03-21
US	52952536	R2GLXVC9H2S3MQ	0375756981	583942750	The Vagina Monologues: The V-Day Edition	Books	5	4	5	N	Y	The foundation of a great show	The Vagina Monologues is a stage piece, and it works *much* better on stage than it does as a pure book. As a stage show, it is thought-provoking, funny and appalling. A good production of this piece picks you up and carries you along. It has something to say to almost everyone, regardless of whether you are comfortable saying the word &quot;vagina&quot; or not. <br />Somehow, when I read the play, I am less captivated, and more aware of the flimsiness of the words. But the point of the thing is its performance. It is clear, from the afterword to the book, and from people I know who have been involved in productions, and from lots of people who have seen the show, that involvement with a production of this piece can change someone's life. And it really is an engaging piece: funny and moving.<br />When I first heard about the project (an attempt to address a culture where people rarely say the word &quot;vagina&quot;, but there are thousands of words for &quot;penis&quot;), I thought it would be interesting and useful to people who aren't comfortable saying &quot;vagina&quot; out loud. Since I have no problem saying it, I thought it would have little relevance to me. When I saw the performance, I knew I had been wrong. But I don't know if I would have gotten that from the book alone.<br />I am giving this book five stars, because it works as it is intended to work: on stage. And I am glad I own it, because it is nice to dip into from time to time, when I want to recapture the effect of being in the audience. Plus, the afterword to the &quot;V-Day&quot; edition is extremely interesting and moving.	2001-10-17
US	52952536	R333GJ55MMIK1Z	0847815641	852848073	Death by Chocolate: The Last Word on a Consuming Passion	Books	4	13	17	N	Y	Great looking food	Sometimes (about once or twice a decade), I decide to have the kind of dinner party where the food is Really Impressive. I usually go for a simple dessert, to balance the intricacy of the other courses. Reading this book, it occurred to me that I could do it the other way around -- a dinner party with really simple (but very tasty) courses, leading up to a blow-out dessert. I'm thinking a simple stew, pepper salad and rustic bread, followed by some kind of chocolate thing that will knock everyone's socks off.<br />If I ever decide to do that, this is the cookbook I will use. The recipes in this book are involved. Many of them have to be made over two days. I've watched the show, and I am a fairly experienced cook, so I feel confident that I could successfully make anything in this book. But I sure would make a point of practicing first!<br />The food styling is not as good as the recipes -- some of the dishes are not shown to their best advantage. I didn't notice this at first, because the photos are glossy and flamboyant.<br />This is not an everyday cookbook, but it makes a beautiful coffee table book, and it's going to help me build the centerpiece of my backwards dinner party.	2001-10-16
US	52952536	R210OW4FPT287I	0425180883	22156232	Iron Chef: The Official Book	Books	4	1	1	N	Y	Allez Cuisine!	I like this book. It is a handy reference when watching the show, especially when the show translation of an ingredient is not familiar, I find that the book sometimes translates the theme ingredient in words I know. Mostly, this is a guilty pleasure, like the show itself. Lots of pictures, some interesting recipes, a couple of good essays by Iron Chefs, and lots and lots of useful reference material. If you are looking for a listing of all the battles, and most of the judges, this is a useful book.<br />Like everything associated with Iron Chef, I just wish there were more of it.	2001-10-12
US	52952536	R3OS3HW8815QS2	0684831481	873975094	False Impressions: The Hunt for Big-Time Art Fakes	Books	3	41	42	N	Y	Interesting but poorly written	This book could have been one of the best books I read this year. The topic is very interesting, and I learned a huge amount from reading it. In fact, when I first read it, I thought it was a 4 1/2 start book. But later I changed my mind.<br />In looking back at the book, what I most imeediately recall about it are two things:<br />1. The writing is stodgy and detracts from the tale.<br />2. The author can't make up his mind who his audience is or what kind of book he is writing.<br />Sometimes, the book seems to be written for someone like me who doesn't know a whole lot about art and the business of art. In some parts of the book, there are lots aof background details to help a reader make sense of what is going on. However, in other parts of the book, he just writes like he assumes you share his common vocabulary. This makes it difficult for me to follow those parts of the book. By the same token, I expect that a person who found these parts of the book interesting and useful would find the explanations in the other parts tedious and useless. This book can't decide if it is a memoir of the author's life, a history of his career, or a book about art forgery. It would have worked better had it been more focused.<br />Having made these complaints, I must say that the book was interesting and packed with useful photos to help me make sense of some of the content. In addition, the topic of the book is interesting, and I am glad I read it. I'm just sorry, because I think it is a book on the verge of being a better book than it is, and I hate to see potential come up short.	2001-10-12
US	52952536	R3B35XW4QCFC7A	0440234824	283056069	The Sibyl in Her Grave	Books	5	13	15	N	Y	Enjoy it for the language, the cleverness and the atmosphere	The point of Sarah Caudwell's meysteries was never the plot, or the plausibility. The novels are full of majestic letters no one would ever really write, wonderful characters who would never have the careers they have, and intriguing conversations that could never really happen. The pleasure of reading one of these books is, however, all the things that could never really happen.<br />It's hard to know how to help someone decide whether they would like this book (or the other three the author wrote before she died last year). I'd say that if you like Wodehouse, you will probably like this (but I hate Wodehouse myself). People who like Benson's Lucia books will likely enjoy these. And, oddly, if you are one of the people who loves Pamela Dean's _Tam_Lin_, you will no doubt find these mysteries engaging.<br />The books are full of improbable plots, which at least don't fall apart until you reflect on them later. The plots are as tangled as a pile of extra-long spaghetti, which makes it all the more fun when the professor untangles them. If you want realism, look elsewhere. If you want beautiful lanugage, interesting characters and acerbic humor, and you are willing to take that wrapped up in a mystery, you'll love these books.	2001-10-12
US	52952536	RW8VQVO7WLBKT	0395779278	962738707	Constantine's Sword: The Church and the Jews: A History	Books	3	28	42	N	Y	Failure of Courage	This book is one man's attempt to reconcile his deeply felt Catholic beliefs with what he knows to be true about the Chursh's history of persecution of the Jews. The book is brave and (for the most part) well written. <br />Carroll provides detailed evidence of the history of the relations between the Roman church and the Jews. He looks at most aspects of this relationship unflinchingly. The book is full of detailed, and supported, narratives of theological arguments within the Church, as well as with personal reminiscences which show how the attitudes of the Chursh played out in one person's life. However, I still find the book troubling.<br />As one of the negative reviews of this book points out, the author frequently uses the phrase &quot;If only...&quot;. Carroll recounts several &quot;theological turning points&quot; where the losing side was supporting a theology which would have moved the Catholic Church in a different direction regarding its dogma on the topic of Jews. He seems to be saying that had the Church made a different choice at any one of these points, it could have simultaneously been the same Church he loves so much and ALSO have avoided much of its tainted relationship with Jews and Judaism.<br />I disagree. Some of these &quot;if only...&quot; moments are such a radical departure from the path that history actually followed that it is impossible to believe that a different choice would have left Catholic dogma unchanged-except-for-this-one-little-thing. Carroll is in the difficult position of loving a religion which he can see clearly has persecuted and destroyed many innocent people. He is unwilling to reject the religion, and this book grows out of his desire to somehow reconcile a clear-eyed view of the past with a deep and abiding love for most parts of the present-day Church. As a result, he fails to fully grasp why the current's Pope's statements on the Jews and the Holocasut have not fully satisfied many outsiders. Moreover, he suggestsadjustments to the present-day liturgy which will eliminate the anti-Jewish content, without adeqautely confronting how these changes will fundamentally alter the underlying narrative on which the beliefs of the Roman Catholic chursh are based.<br />From my perspective (as a non-Catholic), this book looks like a thorough indictment of some of the most crucial dogmas of the Church, followed by a prescription for change which does not adeqautely account for the effects of such change. A Church which changed itself in the ways Carroll recommends would be radically different than the Church that exists today. Whether that's a good thing or not, I do not know. But I do know that what he proposes is a deeper change than he seems able to recognize.	2001-07-15
US	52952536	R1V0W87UBKKYWT	006091565X	231079161	The Dance of Anger: A Woman's Guide to Changing the Patterns of Intimate Relationships	Books	5	541	555	N	N	What is my anger telling me?	A large number of books on the topic of anger have recently come into my house -- how to recognize anger, what it means, and how to &quot;control&quot; it. This is the only one of these books that I liked. All the other books on this topic seem to treat anger as a loss of control, which should be repressed. In fact, they seem to be about impulse control more than about anger. (I have nothing against people learning to control their impulses, I just don't think that it's the same topic as the topic of anger.) Luckily, I did not pay for any of these books, so I can just be glad I read this one, and forget about the others.<br />In this book, Lerner treats anger as a signal that something is going wrong. She explains that only when we address the &quot;something wrong&quot; in a useful way will the anger go away. Then she explores the &quot;dances&quot; we engage in, in our attempts to make ourselves feel better. She suggests that most of our attempts to make ourselves feel better focus on the person(s) we think made us mad, rather than on ourselves. She compassionately and wisely shows how to disengage from the anger and the counter-productive patterns, while staying connected and acting with integrity. However, she also acknowledges the effect that this sort of change can have on other people in the dance, and she provides guidance in maintaining oneself in the face of countermoves. <br />Fundamentally, this is not the kind of self-help book that provides 10 easy steps to ridding oneself of anger. Instead, it describes a different way to think about anger, and discussion of the ways in wich one can respond to anger. No easy steps, just a way of thinking, which can radically change the way one engages with the world.	2001-07-15
US	52952536	RFOBK4Z50Z98X	0679757015	354032049	Gender Outlaw: On Men, Women and the Rest of Us	Books	5	12	14	N	Y	Through a lens sideways	Kate Bornstein has written a fabulous book about what it means to be differently gendered. Her experience of being male, being female, being something else entirely, has lead her to ask the question &quot;What is gender, anyway?&quot; This book is the beginning of an answer to that question.<br />Boornstein does not pretend to know the answers to the questions she raises. For the most part, the critical act in this book is raising the questions at all. And even when she has worked out an answer for herself, she is extremely clear (with herself and with the reader) that the boundaries of that answer pretty much end where her body ends and the rest of the world begins.<br />Her experience acts as a prism through which she views everything else about the world (about theatre, about &quot;the lesbian community&quot;, about straight marriage, about loving, about medicine and therapy). Her sideways view of things that had previously seemed solid to me helped me re-orient my vision of the world as it is, and as it might be.<br />Come to this book with an open mind, and reading it will open your mind even farther. It is absolutely not required that you agree with everything she has to say, that you interpret her observations the way she does, that you experience the world the way she does. Whatever answers you find for yourself, traveling with this author through her world of questions is a ride which should not be missed.	2001-07-01
US	52952536	R59SOBXN2VK76	0385479433	129609703	In Defense of Elitism	Books	4	32	39	N	Y	Elitism and egalitarianism	As far as I can tell, Henry's thesis is that in order to achieve true egalitarianism, you must have a form of elitism. By elitism, he means the making of distinctions and then, sometimes, ranking the things you have distinguished. I expect this book is infuriating to just about everyone who reads it. Progrssives will cringe at some of his social policy suggestions. Conservatives will hate his laissez-faire attitude towards things like gay rights. And most readers will feel flayed by his discussion about how to label himself, since some portion of his views appear to be repugnant to everyone.<br />And yet, it is an enormously thought-provoking work. Henry was passionate about his ideas, and the prose is driven by this passion into readable, urgent passages. As fas as I can tell, Henry was a moderate, and an old-fashioned liberal. And yet he believed some things which are generally believed by modern-day conservatives. So what was he? His confusion about that seems to have been more due to how the word &quot;Liberal&quot; has evolved its meaning over the last 150 years than to anything else. This confusion lead him to sit down and write this book, where he tries to work out (in front of his readers) just what he believes and how that fits with his other beliefs and activities.<br />The question of how to make egalitarianism work is one of the great open questions of the 21st century -- it is not even clear that egalitarianism *can* be made to work. This book provides one man's answer to the question of what a working egalitarianism might look like.<br />I sure don't agree with all his conclusions. He has latched onto at least one serious insight, and articulated it clearly. Where the book loses focus is in his floundering around to justify some of his political positions. Nevertheless, this book is a smoothly written path into the heart of some of the critical dilemmas of the modern world. And I don't have to agree with all his answers to value Henry's framing of thequestions.	2001-07-01
US	52952536	R20FHS698H8UG4	052594558X	187046121	Bad Boy	Books	1	31	52	N	Y	Disappointing	I'm a huge Olivia Goldsmith fan. I reread _First_Wives_Club_ from time to time, and I adore _Bestseller_. I even keep copies of her lesser works around, on the theory that there will be another long winter night when I need some high-quality mind-candy to keep me company in front of the fire. This book, however, went to the used bookstore as soon as I finished it. And even finishing it was a struggle.<br />What's wrong with this book? A better question would be what's right about this book, and the answer to that is &quot;not much&quot;. Basically, the writing style is fluent and the first 70 pages are enjoyable. My specific quibbles with the book are:<br />-- shoddy research: you cannot fly from Tacoma to Seattle, since the Seattle-Tacoma International airport serves Seattle AND Tacoma<br />-- more shoddy research: people in Seattle talk about locations in it by neighborhood name, not by intersection<br />-- more shoddy research: the Mother's Day journey Jon undertakes is almost certainly not possible on a bicycle<br />-- more shoddy research: Jon's experience at a high tech powerhouse is unlike anyone's experience at any high tech powerhouse I have ever worked at, heard about from employees, or can imagine<br />-- still more shoddy research: what kind of newspaper reporter gets to work regular hours, let alone never be at work? what kind of full-time newspaper writer produces only four or five fluff pieces in a several-month period?<br />(All this shoddy research makes me wonder why she bothered to set a book in a location and setting she knew nothing about.)<br />More things that are wrong with this book:<br />-- stupid plotlines, unresolved issues and weird digressions<br />-- unlikable, unbelievable, unrealistic characters<br />-- a foreshortened ending, which was entirely unsatisfying and unbelievable<br />(All of which makes me wonder why she wrote it so fast, so short, and so poorly.)<br />I'm sorry I bothered to finish the book. I only did so because I justcouldn't bring myself to believe that Olivia Goldsmith could write such a bad book. But she could, and she did. I will be buying her next book in paperback. I hope it's better than this one.	2001-07-01
US	52952536	R2BWHJC8IW6CSF	0688153399	998592430	The Secret Knowledge of Grown-ups	Books	5	21	22	N	Y	Conspiracy theories and laughter	This book is remarkable on many levels. First, it is a whimsical and cute idea, executed beautifully. Second, it works as a satire on the conspiracy theories which surround the modern reader. Everyone I have shared this book with has loved it, even those adults who normally don't find anything useful or charming in children's books. <br />Highly recommended for people of any age.	2001-07-01
US	52952536	R2JTJXGPDCJZBR	0451203585	754656703	The Dragon's Bride (Historical Romance, Signet)	Books	5	5	7	N	Y	Still not the best of the Rogues	I've been reading Jo Beverley avidly ever since I picked up a copy of _An_Arranged_Marriage_ several years ago. While I enjoy her light Regencies and her medieval romances, I am a huge fan of the Rogues and the Mallorens. It's been hard to complain about not having any new Rogues books for several years, since we got so many Malloren novels in the meantime. However, I was extremely excited by the release of the latest Rogues book (which also happens to be in another series, the Georges -- how many authors can pull that off without looking stupid? Not many, but Beverley does it beautifully in this novel). <br />Anyway, it's a good book, certainly much better than the average Regency historical novel. And like all the Rogue books, it provides a hero who is sharply distinct from his Rogue-ish mates.  The heroine is believable, and unlike many romance heroines, she not only made a serious mistake in the past, but she has figured that out all by herself before she is reunited with the hero (the man with whom she made the mistake). <br />I missed the actual participation in the action of the novel by any other Rogues besides Nicholas. And I particularly missed the interactions between Susan and the other Rogue-wives who were present at the wedding. I also found the plot to be a bit predictable. I knew who the murderer was very early on, and there were plenty of hints to tell me where the gold was hidden. Also, some of the edge characters seemed a bit wooden and flat, not a mistake Beverley usually makes.<br />So why did I give this book 5 stars? Because even when Jo Beverley is not up to her usual standards, she writes books I want to read and reread. It was great fun to see the Rogues back on stage, and I enjoyed the book immensely. While the plot definitely suffered as I described above, the resolution was both surprising and satisfying. It's not as good as _An_Unwilling_Bride_ or _Christmas_Angel_, which are the two best Rogues books (in my opinion), but it's a fine book, fluently written, nicely paced, and a darn good way spend a weekend.	2001-06-27
US	52952536	RIJ20GX9FIF0P	0609800558	722648744	Minyan: Ten Principles for Living a Life of Integrity	Books	5	22	22	N	Y	Thoughtful and passionate	This is an extremely interesting meditation on by a man who is passionately committed to living a life which is both solidly grounded in Jewish thought and tradition, and at the same time approaches the transcendent through mysticism. Fortunately, Judaism has had threads of mystical tradition for centuries, and this book provides detailed instructions on how to incorporate these techniques into your life. <br />However, this is not primarily a how-to book, but rather is the nearly poetic expression of deep comtemplation and experience of an encounter with the transcendent through the medium of Jewish prayer, ethics and ritual.<br />The prose clearly reflects the passion Rabbi Shapiro brings to his subject, so the book is an appealing reading experience. It is also a book which nearly cries out for rereading and serious thought. You do not have to be Jewish, or agree with everything the author says in order to find great value in this book. If nothing else, it is a case study in making traditional religion meaningful for contemporary people.	2001-05-25
US	52952536	RCC2S41FXXIR2	0375406328	449261090	Lying Awake	Books	5	6	7	N	Y	A small, flawless gem	Mark Salzman is one of my absolute favourite authors. I bought a copy of _Lying_Awake_ when it was first published, but could not bring myself to read it, because after reading his other books, my expectations were so high that I was sure I would be disappointed. I carried the book along on several trips, and never opened it. Then on Wednesday night, I heard Salzman interviewed on Fresh air on NPR. Somehow, in listening to him talk about this book, I was inspired to break through my reluctance and read the book.<br />I am very glad I did. I read it in great gulps, and then when I had finished, I turned back to the front of the book and read it again more slowly. The spare prose, almost perfect in its crystalline clarity, limns a story that breaks almost every rule of good fiction that I have ever heard. Which I suppose explains why the book works so beautifully.<br />Almost completely circumscribed in setting and plot, with a theme as wide as the night sky, the book tackles universal truths. This book never proceeded as I expected, and it was always my expectations that were wrong. The ending of the book is breath-taking, which is an accomplishment in a work so adept and compelling. <br />Mark Salzman says he is a slow. plodding writer. Perhaps he is right, but the diamonds he mines are more than worth the wait. It may be six years before he offers us another book. In the meantime, there is enough is this slim volume to occupy us until then.	2001-02-13
US	52952536	R21KOKH79BQHKY	0395827523	666257050	Apples and Oranges: A Woman's Journey to Sexual Identity	Books	5	7	7	N	Y	Stunning and thought-provoking	Jan Clausen has been walking on the wild side of sexual preference all  her life. First she came out as a lesbian, in a world that is not particularly friendly to the sexually deviant. Then she left her 12-year partnership to be with a man, a decision which alienated her from the lesbian community she had been so instrumental in building. In this book, she tries to make sense of it all, for herself and for the reader, exploring what it means to be a lesbian or not.<br />The central idea of the book is that either/or sexuality is too confining, that women's eroticism flows in a way that makes all labels into prisons. This summing-up misses a great deal, however, as she covers the ground of her own intense life experience, the ways in which the lesian community deals with sexual outlaws, and the ways in which our principles sometimes get in the way of living authentic lives.<br />This is a great book, just because of the ideas discussed. However, the author is also a poet, and so the prose is dense and lovely, with a rhythm that supports the philosophical discussion in a profound way.	2001-01-23
US	52952536	R3SZO4J4PNU8AB	1555835686	582707258	Dykes With Baggage: The Lighter Side of Lesbians in Therapy	Books	5	4	4	N	Y	Laugh all the way to your next appointment	Ever wonder what you would do if you ran smack into your therapist in the dressing room at the 'Y'? Need advice on how to select a therapist? Or an object lesson on what happens when you choose badly?<br />This book is full of amusing and insightful stories about lesbians in therapy, and lesbian therapists doing therapy, and lesbians who should be doing therapy. Most of the stories are well-written and fluent.<br />This book is a great deal of fun, offers some real food for thought and is a good way to tide you over your therapist's four-week trip to Aruba.	2001-01-23
US	52952536	R14IR3OFKCYXV4	1566633370	805962597	The Burden of Bad Ideas: How Modern Intellectuals Misshape Our Society	Books	2	61	122	N	Y	Disappointingly sloganistic	This book starts out with a bang. In a thoughtful, well-written introduction, Heather MacDonald lays out her territory: How is it that civic values have changed so much for the worse? And why is it that the media does not report the truth about what poor people say about their situations? These are good, strong questions, and they deserve good, strong answers.<br />Unfortunately, most of what follows fails to deliver on the promise of the introduction. While I found her history of the decline of charitable foundations to be more or less accurate and rather chilling, even that chapter is marred by her unrelenting hostility towards anything she thinks is liberal and elitist.<br />The essays usually state facts without sources. This makes them suspect, in a book like this one, where the point is to push a particular political agenda. She mixes truly insightful passages with slander and blanket dismissal of things she seems to think she is supposed to disapprove. She finds the worst example of any liberal program and insists that this particular example is the epitome of that program, that the entire program must be just like this one example. But for rightist policies, she insists that each program be judged on its own merits, rather than being tarred by the more excessive cases.<br />This book was incredibly disappointing. She mocks women of color for writing about their hair, yet from the jacket photo, it appears that she has a hairstyle that, were she not white, she might likely be forced to subdue in many jobs. Does she not see that there's a relationship between her &quot;right&quot; to wear her hair as she likes and the color of her skin? And that women who have been told they can't braid their hair or wear Afros at work might be describing something that actually happens? By tainting her good points and her genuine evidence with this sort of mockery and contempt, she weakens her case.<br />It is always interesting to read thoughtful people, whatever their pointof view, at least when they manage to make their points. But it's hard to take seriously a writer who views _The_Economist_ as a quintessential example of left-wing media bias. It's hard to see past her anger and contempt to the heart of the matters she seeks to expose.<br />And thus the book is disappointing -- there's room out there for an articulate writer on the side of the conservative approach to social issues. Unfortunately, MacDonald is too busy being a jingoistic cheerleader to be that artiulate writer. Too bad, because she lays out just the right territory to explore.	2001-01-19
US	52952536	R2KVN4KRFOHF6E	0811825558	979162178	The Worst-Case Scenario Survival Handbook	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Entertaining and educational, but not useful (I hope!)	I was given this book as a gift. From the cover and the title, I assumed it was a humourous book. I was really surprised when I started to read it, to discover that it is a serious summary of how to survive any number of disasters. Quicksand. Being eaten by an alligator. Needing to jump from one moving vehicle to another. Each of these situations is explored with an eye to helping you survive it in as good health as possible. (Some of them you probably can't survive without injury: this book explains why and how you can minimize the injury you suffer.)<br />I was surprised by how interesting the book was. It's written in a clean, clear style, which would be easy to understand in case of emergency. My only fear is that in case of emergency, I would not have the book with me. On the other hand, the book gives lots of suggestions for staying out of worst-case situations altogether, which is certainly useful.<br />I found this book to be an enjoyable read, and I learned a lot from it. I just hope I never have to use any of the things I learned!	2001-01-04
US	52952536	RN5FHHEKJG5XR	0525945725	626475978	The Darwin Awards: Evolution in Action	Books	3	70	81	N	Y	Careful how you read this	The book is full of amazing anecdotes. Some of them are gut-bustingly funny. Some hurt just to read. I really enjoyed this book. So, I started its rating as 5 stars. However, I had three complaints, each of which lost the book a star.<br />First, the book categorizes stories as &quot;Confirmed by Darwin&quot; and &quot;Not confirmed by Darwin&quot;. However, even some of the not confirmed stories have citations to newspapers and other seemingly impeccable sources. It would have been very nice to have an appendix which indicated how the confirmed ones had been confirmed. (Down to 4 stars.)<br />Second, the introductions to the chapters are not terribly well-written. They aren't awful or anything, but they do contrast with the crisply-written stories themselves. Moreover, some of these introductions are *real* stretches. The contortions at the end of these particular introductions to make them seem connected to the stories in the chapter made me roll my eyes. These would have been better omitted, or turned into interludes, or something. (Down to 3 stars.)<br />Third, the book seemed like a huge plug for the website. Yes, I realize this material started out in email and morphed into a website, and there really is some interesting additional information on the website. However, I think the book has considerable general appeal, and tying it that closely to the web makes it less appealing as a present for technophobes who appreciate this kind of humor. (Down to 2 stars.)<br />In the end, I'm giving it one star back because it really is good fun. (Finished at 3 stars.)<br />Warning: don't read more than five or six stories in one sitting. They lose something when they are bunched together.	2000-12-08
US	52952536	RVILRVTWN08TR	0684813661	419251685	Holy Days: The World Of The Hasidic Family	Books	4	34	34	N	N	Strong book with strange lapses	This is a lyrical look at a world that is not accessible to most people on a daily basis. Lis Harris felt a strong attraction to the Hasidic Jews she saw around her from time to time, so she found a way to learn more about the people who live this life. Her book is respectful and informative.<br />A weakness of the book is that her level of personal involvement in the writing seems uneven. This book is an unabashed memoir, where she describes how she got involved with the project (a longing to know more about what she saw in her own family pictures and felt drawn to, in the face of a quite secular upbringing). However, having described how she got involved in this project, she then fails to tell us how she resolved her longing. What did she learn about these people that enables her to look at the photographs without feeling the same drawing-in?<br />I say this despite the fact that the individual parts of the book are highly personal -- her descriptions of the mikveh and of the lives of unmarried girls are lyrical and moving.<br />The book is well worth reading, but the author's nearly completely assimilated background does make it hard for her to distinguish between &quot;ultra-orthodox&quot; religious practices, and more common practices of observant Jews (say the modern Orthodox, for example). Many things she encountered elicited a &quot;gee whiz -- how odd!&quot; response from her, and it was strange that she couldn't distinguish between the practices she encountered which are unique to Hasidic life and the practices which are common to practicing Jews of many stripes. The book would have been stronger had she spent less time looking for academic explanations of what she encountered and spent more time understanding the context -- how do these people fit into the context of observant Jewish practice?<br />On the whole, however, it is an excellent book, well-written and worth reading.	2000-12-08
US	52952536	R1GQPAC0RM11I	0767905385	262010179	Catch Me If You Can: The True Story of a Real Fake	Books	4	2	4	N	Y	Enjoyable light reading	This book has a way of reaching out and grabbing the reader. The author writes fluently and entertainingly of his career as a criminal. He provides enough details so you can get a sense of what he really did, but is obivously leaving out enough that it would be difficult to use this book as a guidebook to the kind of criminal life he once pursued.<br />In order to pull off his crimes, the author has to be a man of great charisma and charm, and a great deal of that is present in the book. However, I felt that the book ended prematurely. It would have felt more complete had he described some of what happened after the supposed end of the book. How did he change? How did he end up married? <br />If you are looking for great meaning, you won't find it in this book. If you are looking for a light-hearted description of a remarkable criminal career, this book will meet your requirements.	2000-10-20
US	52952536	R25RP8Z19CJALN	0316929204	331982211	The Clustered World : How We Live, What We Buy, and What It All Means About Who We Are	Books	5	43	44	N	Y	Seductively interesting	I never thought I would find this book as fascinating as it turns out to be. I first saw it on a friend's coffee table, and started paging through it. Then I had to borrow it. The next thing I knew, I was buying a copy for myself. Michael Weiss writes about a demographic analysis technique which explains a strange thing I noticed 20 years ago. I had moved from a a neighborhood full of 20-something recent college graduates in entry-level professional jobs into a tiny little used-to-be-the-butler's-apartment in a very ritzy neighborhood in San Francisco. All of a sudden my junk mail changed. Instead of credit card offers and Book-of-the-Month Club shills, I started getting letters that said things like &quot;We know all about you. When you want to get away for the weekend, you shun Paris and go right to Morocco.&quot; Right.<br />This book explains what had happened to me: I had moved from one cluster's neighborhood into another. My address now suggested things about my income, lifestyle and assets that just weren't true. <br />The maps and prose in this book combine to provide a very interesting analysis of how wealth, values and lifestyle are dispersed in this country (and around the world). Clustering was first developed as a marketing tool, and it's undoubtedly a powerful one, but the book works as social commentary, as well. This book is one of the best case studies I've ever laid eyes on of how to make statistical analysis meaningful to the average reader.	2000-10-20
US	52952536	RVUEA7AQ5Z490	0827605838	236547285	Distant Sisters: The Women I Left Behind	Books	3	8	8	N	Y	Author gets in the way of a good book	This book provides an intriguing look at the lives of women in the  misnaged haredi community (what most Americans would call ultra-Orthodox  Jews) in Israel. It is translated from the Hebrew, and was originally  published in Israel. The author did a good job of getting haredi women to  talk to her about their lives. She tells several stories about women who  were raised in less stringently observant families who chose to become part  of the haredi community, and she manages to portray the motivations of  these women sympathetically and warmly. She also provides details of haredi  lives that I have never before seen in print, and she mostly manages to  provide these details from the reports of her informants, rather than from  her experience many years ago as a haredi wife.<br />However, the author  herself used to be haredi, and she is extremely ambivalent about the  lifestyle, about the women who choose it, and even (I suspect) about having  left it. The narrative keeps switching back and forth from a very good  report on her research among these women to a discussion of her own values,  which differ from those of the women she is supposedly describing. To her  credit, Rotem makes no secret that she is not objective about this topic.  However, she also fails to clearly describe her own opinions or to tell us  how she arrived at the values she has. She does talk about specific parts  of her experience as a haredi wife, but she fails to tell the more general  story of what happened to change her.<br />As a result, this book can't decide  whether it's an almost-objective sociological study or whether it's a  memoir. The two books don't live together cleanly inside the book the  author wrote, and this distracts from the very interesting information she  presents. What's worse, the memoir is not as good a book as the  sociological study, so its presence just detracts from the value of this  otherwise interesting and useful book.	2000-09-16
US	52952536	R37616DULF7CYV	0671537954	690598654	Intimate Strangers	Books	4	1	1	N	N	The truths and lies on which lives are based	This plot of this book is pretty straight-forward: a British couple and  American couple swap their houses for the summer. Living in one another's  houses, they become entwined (to various degress, depending on the  individual) in each other's lives. As the sumer progresses, their lives  begin to unravel and then weave themselves into different shapes. The  writing is occasionally intrusive, and one of the four main characters is  significantly less well-drawn then the other three; for these reasons, I  gave the book only four stars.<br />_Intimate_Strangers_ is full of  thought-provoking situations and events. It avoids an easy or clean ending,  leaving the reader to ponder the prognosis for a relationship built on a  significant lie. The tagged-on epilogue is laugh-out-loud funny.	2000-09-16
US	52952536	R2TNO1KAD71WC8	0070700192	994715042	75 Cage Rattling Questions to Change the Way You Work: Shake-Em-Up Questions to Open Meetings, Ignite Discussion, and Spark Creativity	Books	4	11	15	N	Y	Actually useful	I was surprised at how useful this book is. When I first looked at it, I  thought the questions looked obvious and simplistic, but they work very  well to start off team meeting sessions. The authors provide lots of good  ideas about how to use them, and little anecdotes to inspire you to believe  that the questions can actually change the way you do business. I've used  them for meeting kick-offs and to jump-start moribund discussions.	2000-09-08
US	52952536	R1PHSQWQKHTG88	0894803123	398952310	Ben & Jerry's Homemade Ice Cream & Dessert Book	Books	5	497	522	N	Y	Add an ice cream maker for a great wedding present	This is a terrific book, and it solved my perpetual problem of what to give people I know well enough to go to their wedding but not well enough to drop $800 on a wedding present. The recipes in this book make great ice cream. Toss in a decent ice cream maker, and you have a present that no one else will think of, that the receipients will appreciate, and one that they will use over time. (For what it's worth, I usually give the Donvier hand-turned machine because it makes dense, smooth ice cream that reminds me of gelato.)<br />Anyway, about the book and what makes it so great: Ben and Jerry tell you how to make their most popular ice creams, and a bunch that I never saw before. They provide multiple recipes for chocolate ice cream, and write clearly about how they are different. A friend of mine once made all the choclate ice creams and had a tasting party. It was interesting to see how different they really were. (And this book taught me the secret to great chocolate ice cream taste: a pinch of salt--really!)<br />If you are worried about using eggs, you will want to use a pasteurized egg product in place of the raw eggs. Other than that, this is a terrific book. Lots of good ideas, excellent recipes, and enough discussion about how to create new flavours to encourage even the most reluctant recipe-inventor to go hog wild. <br />I wish there were a sequel.	2000-09-07
US	52952536	RZPT0D4UIFMM8	0441006469	809679799	Shackle and Sword	Books	3	6	6	N	Y	Adequate writing, interesting characters	I liked a lot of things about this book. I liked that the plot was not  entirely predictable. I liked that the fey did not just immediately accept  Farris when he encountered them. I liked that his reaction to being  enslaved and brutalized was to get angry, rather than &quot;rising above it  all and being extra-noble&quot;, the way that too many fantasy novel slaves  do. I liked that characters in the book were complex, with very few of them  being all good or all bad. <br />What I did not like about the book was that  the writing *was* predicatable. The plot was not very interesting or  intricate, but with the strong characters, that might have been okay, if  the writing were more intriguing. (I also thought that the author lost her  courage when it came to the resolution between the main character and the  man who sold him into slavery.) In this book, we have a moderately  interesting plot, workmanlike writing, and very interesting characters.  This book is worth reading if you have the time; it will not demand much  from you as a reader, and it is enjoyable. It's also pretty forgettable.	2000-09-06
US	52952536	R35UH6KYPDZ59V	0380797518	130614168	The Arm of the Stone	Books	5	4	6	N	Y	Compelling writing, beautiful story	This is one of the most beautifully-written books I have ever read. The  gorgeous writing cloaks an incredible story. The plot description sounded  to me like a typical schlock fantasy novel, and I bought the book only  because I had been told the writing was wonderful. The writing *is*  wonderful, but the plot and characters are great, also.<br />In this book,  there are two viewpoint characters who never get to be &quot;on the same  side&quot;. Each one has a life and a story, and these do intersect, but  there are no easy reconciliations of their radically different viewpoints.  Moreover, the two characters change significantly from their first  introductions. The changes are well-motivated and believable.<br />I am  stunned by this book -- it's incredibly good. Every time I thought I had  figured out what was going to happen, the author surprised me, but none of  the surprises seemed egregious. The plot is seamless, and I cared about  both main characters, even though they were in opposition to one another.  In the end, however, the real strength of the book is in the writing, which  surpasses even the plot and the characterization.	2000-09-06
US	52952536	RR8WEOIERQE3A	0922233217	33082279	Mental Hygiene: Better Living Through Classroom Films 1945-1970	Books	5	24	25	N	Y	Return to the gory days of youth...	I read this book because I had to watch some of these films in school when  I was a kid. I always wondered about how they had come to be made. This  book answers that question, and provides lots more information about the  history of hygiene films. The second half of the book, with the synopses of  the films themselves is outrageously funny, especially if you don't think  too hard about the kids who had to watch this stuff as serious classroom  activities. The first half of the book is extremely detailed and  non-judgemental, sort of a &quot;this is what they did and why&quot;  exposition of the history of these films.<br />I mostly bought the book to be  amused, but I learned a lot about the social history of the immediate  post-war period, and about the extent to which these movies were created  and shown in classrooms.	2000-09-01
US	52952536	R3DK6H0JXUADJ1	0966430670	555910413	Life on the Fringes: A Feminist Journey Towards Traditional Rabbinic Ordination	Books	5	13	14	N	Y	Powerful writing, beautiful life	Haviva Ner-David is living a life which is entirely informed by her understanding of her spirituality. How inspiring this is, whenever someone  is able to write a fluent, beautiful book which depicts such a shining  achievement. But this book is even better, because her spiritual path is on  the border between traditional Judaism and modernism. This precarious  journey walks straight through the most important questions a Jewish woman  can ask herself.<br />This is a starkly honest book, which shows her struggles  and her triumphs. The prose is clean and direct. The power of this book  comes from the power of the author's heart: she writes with love of the  life she is trying to lead, and of the conflicts she faces, within herself  and with the world around her. This woman wrestles with herself, on the  pages of this book. And she makes her world vivid enough that the reader  can enter, can understand how she got where she is. <br />Once I started  reading, I could not stop until I finished. Sleep on one night seemed less  important than soaking up these words.	2000-08-31
US	52952536	R19O3AJQ49WWLL	0226893952	841849063	Boggs: A Comedy of Values (Passions and Wonders Series)	Books	4	4	6	N	Y	Slightly scattered, but very interesting	The story told in this book is fasccinating -- of a man whose art directly  addresses the questions: what is money? what does money mean to us? how  does money work? Boggs is an artist who creates beuatiful work, and does it  in a way that it also drives to the heart of the American monetary system.  The transactional part of his art is fascinating, and is told in an  engaging amnner in this book.<br />The book suffers from being an enlargement  of a fascinating article on the same subject. The borders between the  original material and that added to make it a book-length piece are  sometimes glaring. The book would have been more successful if the text  were limited to the original article, and the collection of images were  expanded.	2000-08-31
US	52952536	R1N30TMAGAZKFG	0446673889	18943090	Lovingkindness	Books	5	16	18	N	Y	Breathtaking	This book shines. It is a book about the love between a mother and  daughter, about the obstacles on the path to perfect understanding between  them, about the ways in which children disappoint and delight their  parents. Both the mother and the daughter are completely believable. It is  impossible to predict what will happen to them after the book's end. <br />The  writing is wonderful, almost lyric. The characters are fully drawn. The  plot is entirely organic, with no disruptive elements. The story is firmly  rooted in the second half of the 20th century, in the evolution of American  Jewry and the haredi response to it. The booked moved me deeply. There is  nothing to disappoint in this book, except that it ends.	2000-08-31
US	52952536	R12DMVFNXC18BM	0735200173	89735329	Literature Lover's Book of Lists:  Serious Trivia for the Bibliophile	Books	2	12	14	N	Y	A waste of time	I was sadly disappointed in this book, especially since it got such glowing reviews from other Amazon readers. I found the book to be full of  stuff I already knew, and worse, to be self-congratulatory to an almost  offensive degree. <br />My biggest complaint was that lists were sometimes  incomplete, but purported to be complete. I like my reference books to be  reliable, and I did not find this to be completely dependable. (My theory  is that if the things I know for sure are not accurately reported, then it  is unlikely that the things I do not know are completely correct. However,  I can't tell which &quot;new facts&quot; are wrong, so I can't believe any  of them.)<br />All told, I did not find this book to be worth keeping. (And I  *love* boks of lists.)	2000-08-31
US	52952536	R1OW9EPSU2236V	0374148600	198259676	Ex Libris: Confessions of a Common Reader	Books	5	13	13	N	Y	Speaks to the book fanatic	What a marvelous book!<br />When Anne Fadiman started to describe the merger  of her library with her husband's (never mind that they had been married  for years and had children together, this was the event that convinced her  they were *really* married), I knew I had stumbled on a kindred soul. Anne  Fadiman can write, and she chooses to write about what it means to live a  life surrounded by (and wallowing in, let's admit it!) books.<br />Her love  affair with the written word permeates this book. The details of her life  are completely different than mine, but this book made me feel like I  understood her from the inside out. I read large parts of this book out  loud, to anyone I could find who seemed like they might find it amusing.  Most of them ran out and got themselves a copy of the book. I can't read it  out loud to you, so all I can say is if you love reading, if you are  consumed with a love of the written word, Anne Fadiman's book will speak to  the deepest part of your soul.	2000-08-31
US	52952536	R3KJSJ146FC62K	0679750312	660797631	The End of Education: Redefining the Value of School	Books	5	33	36	N	N	A courageous, radical book	Neil Postman says out loud what many informed observers, both inside and  outside the education establishment have been whispering to one another for  sometime now. He takes on sacred cows, and ingrained assumptions about the  purpose of education. This book develops a cogent theory of how we can  educate human beings, humanely and successfully.<br />The book is extremely  well-written; the prose does not get in the way of the ideas, which is  refreshing in a book about education issues. His arguments are carefully  laid out, well-supported, and documented. Whether you agree with him or  not, he provokes clear thought. If you agree with him, this book will force  you to examine the consequences of your positions. Should you happen to  disagree with him, the process of working out how and why you disagree with  him will make your positions stronger. <br />A very fine book, highly  recommended to anyone who cares about the future of education in the USA.	2000-08-31
US	52952536	R2VKIV4CZ2YJGG	0345384563	286200112	A History of God: The 4,000-Year Quest of Judaism, Christianity and Islam	Books	5	24	28	N	Y	A tour-de-force	This book astonishes me every time I return to it. The scope is extremely  wide, and the author covers all this ground clearly, carefully and  passionately. There is a great deal of material here, and she never lets  any of it get away from her.<br />Armstrong takes as her subject the Western  search for G-d, and (surprisingly, when you consider the length of the  book), she manages to do justice to the topic. Her erudition is impressive,  as is her ability to write fluently about difficult topics. The easy prose  does not water down the content; indeed, it enhances the book by making it  accessible to the general reader.<br />It's a very personal book, which is  obviously the result of years of reserach and thinking about this topic. I  don't agree with everything she wrote, but everything she wrote is  thought-provoking and useful. In fact, the author's clear commitment to her  work is part of the what makes this book as strong as it is. However, it  will definitely force you to confront your own beliefs and understandings,  so don't read it if you aren't willing to do that.	2000-08-31
US	52952536	R3DXZPLH6V7GQO	0874415853	865449448	It's a Mitzvah!: Step-By-Step to Jewish Living	Books	2	21	32	N	Y	Too scattered to be entirely useful	This book seems like a great idea -- jump into following more  commandments, one at a time. So why don't I like it? Well, because there  *are* connections between the various mitzvot, and this book ignores  them.<br />A very wise rabbi once said to me, &quot;There are only two correct  answers to a question about whether you follow a particular mitzvah:  'yes&quot; and 'not yet'.&quot; This book seems like it addresses this very  issue: how does one begin? But the book focuses on each individual piece of  halakhah as though it exists in isolation, which of course, none of it  does. The book feels very scattered, distractingly so.<br />So if you are  looking for a way to start practicing any particular mitzvah, this book may  help you with suggestions for how to start at a walk, rather than running  flat-out. But if you want a road map to a more observant life, you will  find it lacking in a cohesive approach, or plan.	2000-08-31
US	52952536	R1S7Z6DCTIP3AV	0812929950	749931860	The 100 Best TV Commercials: . . . and Why They Worked	Books	3	13	13	N	Y	Words cannot convey...	This book covers some *great* commercials. It should be a *great* book,  but it is not. Kanner is a talented writer, but she is trying to convey in  words something that can only be conveyed visually. I would buy this book  in a second if it were accompanied by a CD or a DVD containing the  commercials.<br />As it is, it is hard to recommend the book, when the words  fall so far short of conveying the essence of any commercial. (To see what  I mean, try reading about a commercial you remember well. You will note  that the description is accurate, but it does not delvier the complexity of  the experience you had when you watched the commercial.) <br />It's not a bad  book. In fact, it's probably as good as a book like this gets. But words  are not a medium suited to the task at hand. Books about advertising work  better when they are about print campaigns.	2000-08-31
US	52952536	R1ZYPDDDTXDBZH	1885203292	324294228	Absolut Book: The Absolut Vodka Advertising Story	Books	5	3	3	N	Y	Cheers!!	This is a terrific book, with information about how the wonderful Absolut  vodka advertising campaign began. The real strength of the book is the  collection of images. In some cases, looking at an entire campaign all  together takes something away from the individual ads. This is not the case  for these advertisements -- taken together, they are even cooler than they  were in their original magazine contexts.<br />I just hope they will do a  second volume when there are enough new ads to justify it.	2000-08-29
US	52952536	R25JHLZF089JC	0452281288	339342696	Conspiranoia!: The Mother of All Conspiracy Theories	Books	2	31	36	N	Y	Not for beginners	This book is full to the top with interesting information, especially  about hidden connections between various conspiracy theories. I had a  strongly mixed reaction to the book. Whenever he was talking about a theory  I knew about prior to reading the book, he seemed lucid, fluent and  knowledgeable. Whenever he talked about a theory I had never seen before, I  found him confusing and oblique. Moreover, the format ofthe book, which had  seemed so useful when we were on familiar ground, suddenly became an  obstacle to understanding.<br />My advice: if you already know a lot about  conspiracy theories and are looking for a good reference guide, buy this  book. If you are familiar with many conspiracy theories and are looking for  a book which will tease out the connections between them, buy this book.  But if you are just getting started learning about conspiracies, or if you  are feeling mildly curious, start somewhere else.	2000-08-29
US	52952536	R223ORUQEH3PMU	0822320444	23504848	Beyond The Whiteness of Whiteness: Memoir of a White Mother of Black Sons	Books	5	11	12	N	Y	A brightly shining book	This book succeeds on two levels at the same time. Jane Lazarre has  written a beautiful memoir of her life as a white woman who first marries a  black man and then becomes the mother of black sons. She has reflected on  her experience, and given it deep meaning, which she shares in this book,  as well.<br />This is an incredibly powerful book, which goes right to the  heart of what it means to be white in America. Lazarre's experiences are  her own, but the lessons she draws from her life are important lessons for  all of us, especially those of us who are white. I recommend this book  without reservation to anyone who wants to think again about race,  ethnicity, and integrity.	2000-08-29
US	52952536	RH8AMBUVLOFLR	0226556689	846191489	Crossing: A Memoir	Books	3	80	93	N	Y	Interesting and annoying	This is a book about someone who has gone through an amazing experience.  The problem is that the author doesn't seem to grasp most of what she has  done. For example, she is hurt beyond belief that the woman she was married  to when she was a man can't accept that she is now a woman. But prior to  this revelation, he had been lying to his wife, and he had a secret life.  He seems to have no sense of what a major revelation this was, no ability  to understand what it might be like to discover that your husband has been  deceiving you and now intends to change his (and your) life profoundly and  That This Is Not Open For Discussion. (Never mind that if you resist the  changes he is proposing for your life, you will instantly become the  enemy.)<br />Also, she has a strange view of what it means to be a woman. Near  as I can tell, any woman whose experience of being female is different than  hers is a &quot;radical feminist&quot; and the enemy.<br />She not only  accepts second-class treatment, she seems to crave it. She brags about  doing the cooking and cleaning with the other women while the men in the  group are chatting in the living room. She seems to have chosen friends who  will reinforce her ideas about what it means to be a woman. In the end, she  is living out a man's fantasy of what it is like to be female. More power  to her, but I think she would find more acceptance (which she clearly longs  for) if she would start with a little empathy. It's all about her, all  about what she wants, and not at all about what it might mean for those who  started out loving him.<br />Her sister tried several times to get her  committed to mental institutions, in order to prevent her from having the  surgery. This was vile and evil, and intrusive. Lots of bad things happened  to her because of the choices she made (and people's reactions to them). I  really wanted to be sympathetic, but it was hard when she was herself such  a monster of self-absorption and selfishness.<br />I was hoping for a book  which would explore the boundary between maleness and femaleness, which  would be about what it means to be a woman (or a man) in America these  days. Instead I got yet another man's view of womanhood, with a strong dose  of &quot;only I know what it means to be female&quot; thrown in. The world  is not that simple, and this author is, in the end, too self-indulgent to  take seriously as a reporter from that boundary country.<br />(A better book  on this topic is Kate Bornstein's _Gender_Outlaw_.)<br />I was hoping for a book  which would explore the boundary between maleness and femaleness, which  would be about what it means to be a woman (or a man) in America these  days. Instead I got yet another man's view of womanhood, with a strong dose  of &quot;only I know what it means to be female&quot; thrown in. The world  is not that simple, and this author is, in the end, too self-indulgent to  take seriously as a reporter from that boundary country.<br />(A better book  on this topic is Kate Bornstein's _Gender_Outlaw_.)	2000-08-29
US	52952536	R2SR5DA3LL2LRO	0060191368	506258840	The Committed Life: Principles for Good Living from Our Timeless Past	Books	4	12	14	N	N	A frustrating book	This book is beautiful. It describes a profoundly meaningful life, and  offers suggestions to the reader for making her life more meaningful as  well. There are passages so beautifully written that I had to read them  over and over again, to bask in the moving prose. The lovely prose is all  the more impressive when you realize English is not this author's native  language.<br />Rebbetzin Esther Jungreis lives tikkun olam (repair of the  world) in a way that few of us can emulate. There are wonderful, inspiring  stories of real people grabbing ahold of their lives and making fundamental  changes in the way they face the world. This book should be completely  inspiring -- and to some degree, it is. The author offers a clear view of a  better world, and makes concrete suggestions about how to achieve it, one  day and one life at a time.<br />So why am I frustrated? Because the book's  solutions, which seem so profound at first, often turn out to be glib. The  author reports conversations which always seem to work to change someone's  life. There's depth in the stories, in the changes people make in their  lives, and hope. But it's all laid out so easily, as if just a conversation  is always enough. Perhaps she only told the stories with the greatest  impact. Reading one or two at a time is truly inspirational. Taken  together, they offer a too-easy solution -- listen to the Rebbetzin and  everything will be okay. <br />More realistically, this book will offer you  inspiration and comfort if you want to try to move your life to a better  place. What it won't offer is an idea of how hard that is when you have to  live it every day.	2000-08-28
US	52952536	RWS4YVIGITREP	0195117255	621030551	A House Built on Sand: Exposing Postmodernist Myths About Science	Books	5	45	50	N	Y	A balanced look at a strange phenomenom	This book is a collection of essays, and as is usual in such an anthology,  the quality of the writing and of the arguments is variable. However, the  editor did a terrific job of selecting writers who understand their topics,  are not too terribly polemical, and write well enough to articulate their  viewpoints.<br />The book ranges over a variety of responses to the  post-modernist attack on science. I found the book quite informative on the  content of the anti-science arguments, and while I have not read all of  them, the ones I have read are reported fairly in this book. Then they are  demolished.<br />Ini a similar way, I am only competent to judge about half  of the science that is presented in the book, but again, what I do know  independently is described accurately and articulately in this volume. This  book shows that it is possible to write coherently about science and about  social issues at the same time. I found the book useful in my attempt to  understand the anti-science attacks more clearly than I had been able to do  on my own, and I enjoyed the elegant, spirited rebuttals. Read this book,  and then think for yourself. You should enjoy the process, no matter which  side of the argument you end up on.	2000-08-28
US	52952536	R2ATI6608V72BX	0312204078	508861703	Fashionable Nonsense: Postmodern Intellectuals' Abuse of Science	Books	4	4	9	N	Y	A brief review of a good book	This is a very good book, well-written and delivering a coherent argument.  If you want to know what it is about, read the synopsis and the other  reviews. If you want to know whether it is worth reading, here is my  opinion: yes, but...<br />The best part of the book, and the most profound, is  the epilogue. You have to read the rest of the book to graso the argument  in the epilogue. The rest of the book is enjoyable, but it's too bad they  saved the punch line for the afterword.<br />This book is of variable quality,  throughout its body. In several places, the authors felt the quotations of  the post-modernists stood on their own merits as evidence that there is no  there (in the PM attacks on science). When the authors engage in thoughtful  analysis, they are very strong. And the epilogue pulls it all together  beautifully. Well worth reading.	2000-08-28
US	52952536	RPWJZDW8CM5RA	067187845X	291308281	Memory (Miles Vorkosigan Adventures)	Books	5	33	33	N	Y	Strong entry in a terrific series	This book marks the turning point of Miles Vorkosigan/Naismith's life.  Without giving away the plot, there's not much else to say. Miles faces his  life, his choices and himself, in prose so brutally honest that it almost  hurts to read. But the writing is beautiful, the plot twisty and  surprising, and the characters glorious. This is the culmination of all  that has gone before, and I strongly recommend that you read what has gone  before. prior to dipping into this novel.<br />_Memory_ is a fabulous book. It  would be well worth reading if it had only the great story, or only the  incredibly well-drawn characters, or only the deeper layers of meaning.  When you combine all of these, and add in the absolutely sublime prose, you  have a fabulous book. Read the precursors, then read this. You won't be  sorry.	2000-08-28
US	52952536	R2I8EMGG9R346P	0525943692	885570903	With Roots in Heaven: One Woman's Passionate Journey into the Heart of Her Faith	Books	3	8	15	N	Y	Mixed feelings	Tirzah Firestone really knows how to write. Her prose is compelling, her  stories vivid, and the people she desribes all seem to leap off the page.  My first reaction to this book was &quot;Wow! What a deep and meaningful  book.&quot;<br />Then I went away and reflected a bit. This book is all about  Tirzah, which is what you would expect from a memoir. The problem is that  she extrapolates from her experience to make sweeping generalizations about  other people's experience. Her spiritual journey was crooked and laboured  -- it took her a long time to figure out where she wanted to go and start  down the path that would lead her there. She holds this up as a banner,  implying that people whose journeys were shorter, or easier, or straighter  have less authenticity than she does.<br />I find that the book works well as  an honest description of one person's path to deeper spirituality. I am  disappointed that even though she sees others very clearly, she has such a  limited view of herself. It's as if she cannot see what she reveals about  herself in her prose. This book is the story of a flawed person trying to  get closer to G-d. It should be inspirational for the rest of us flawed  people trying to do the same. But she thinks she's special, so she offers  only a story to read, to watch, not a guidebook or an invitation.	2000-08-28
US	52952536	R1L2YOO7D6FYAE	0679736131	333811980	Dead Certainties: Unwarranted Speculations	Books	5	5	9	N	N	Historiography at its best	This book explores the boundary between recounting the past and creating  the past. The writing is beautiful, the ideas are well-delineated, and the  examples are compelling. The book chews over common themes in  historigraphy, but thus author makes them accessible to the general public.  Wonderfully written and unforgettable, this book will certainly give you  food for thought. And it will make a better reader of straight history.	2000-08-25
US	52952536	R2GSLR6EY9TJA6	0812544501	137004441	Tam Lin (Fairy Tale)	Books	5	94	96	N	N	I loved it, but you might not...	This book is full of lovely language, subtle references to the ballad of  Tam Lin, unadulterated nostalgia for life at a liberal arts college in the  1970s, and characters who are flawed but endearing. I wore out one copy of  this book and had to buy a second, which disappeared into a friend's  library, so I had to buy a third. I reread it at least once a year, or  whenever I want to read a beautifully written book which will reveal more  on each successive reading. <br />However, lots of people hate this book. Some  of the people who hate this book are people whose literary tastes I  otherwise trust implicitly. It's hard to know why they hate it. They say  they hate the cardboard characters (but the characters seemed to me to be  both wonderful evocations of the archtypes they represented and also quite  well-drawn as individuals). They say the book is pretentious (but I went to  school with a bunch of people who talked like that -- we outgrew it, but  the dialogue sang to me). They say the fairy tale is just nailed onto the  ending of the book (but if you look, the details of the ballad are present  from the first page -- and surely one of the things Dean is trying to say  is that the fantastic has as its context the mundane). They say the writing  is wooden (I disagree).<br />If you love lanugage, if you were ever a somewhat  pretentious young intellectual, if you want to remember what it felt like  to be 18 years old at a liberal arts college (and you didn't have to go to  Carleton to feel the tug of nostalgia), you will probably like this book.  But if you don't, you will be in good company.	2000-08-24
US	52952536	R2YXJZW5ONW4NX	082173976X	538094232	Christmas Angel	Books	5	52	53	N	N	My favourite of the Rogues (so far!)	I know that most people think that _An_Unwilling_Bride_ is the best of Jo  Beverley's Rogues books. I disagree. While _Bride_ is certainly an  excellent book, this book is better. For one thing, this book does not have  any desperate villains, just one bumbling (but dangerous) one and one set  of phantom villains. This lack of an adventure plot means that the romance  must stand (or fall) on its own terms. This is a terrific story.<br />Both  characters are completely believable. Each brings baggage to their  marriage, and each learns to shed it in the course of the book. Leander is  amazing -- worldly, strong, powerful, and yet strangely alone and  vulnerable. Judith is living with the consequences of her early marriage to  a stunningly romantic poet who turned out to be a stunningly unsatisfactory  husband. The preconceptions they bring to their marriage, about themselves  and about each other, need to be untangled before this Cinderella story can  be resolved.<br />The resolution is believable, because the changes in each  character are motivated and plausible. This story has lots of funny scenes,  and some heart-rending passages, as well. The writing is clean and fluent.  All in all, a very good book.	2000-08-10
US	52952536	R1TCRJXT914WT3	0821764012	69516189	An Arranged Marriage (Zebra Historical Romance)	Books	4	3	8	N	N	First of the Rogues, but not the best	This is the book that got me hooked on Jo Beverley, but in comparison to  some of the later books, it is not as compelling. The story is interesting  and the writing is fine, but the complexity of her later books is missing.  Also missing are the laugh-out-loud and cry-out-loud scenes that make the  later books so readable.<br />However, I was very intrigued by both  characters. Nicholas is realtively young, and has always been a leader.  He's charismatic, smart, capable, and (for what seems like the first time  in his life) in over his head. He fails to anticipate the effects of his  actions, and so in an all-too-human way, he muddles through. On one hand,  in areas where he has not made any fundamental errors, he is able to be  generous and understanding with Eleanor; he makes room for her to discover  who she is and to be that woman. On the other hand, having failed to see  what the results of his spying would be, both on his wife and on himself,  he leads them both to the edge of disaster.<br />Eleanor, meanwhile, has been  ruthlessly repressed her entire life, never pleasing her parents, and  getting in the way of her brother's pleasures. After a traumatic series of  events frees her from her family's control, she is somewhat lost and very  much alone. Trapped in a marriage which seems the best of several awful  choices, she is suddenly faced with a husband who is willing to let her be  whoever she is, but who also seems maddeningly variable -- available one  moment, but emotionally and physically distant the next.<br />In order for  these two characters to have a good marriage, they each must work out the  dilemmas they face. I found the last part of the book, where they  reconcile, to be painfully true-to-life. Even then, having learned a great  deal about themselves and about each other, they each make mistakes in  understanding one another. In the end, it all depends on their trust of one  another's intentions. Not blind forgiveness, but something deeper.<br />This  is not the strongest of the Rogues books, but it is certainly a very good  book.	2000-08-10
US	52952536	R16LWHY3E7FL6G	0061007358	688716919	Not a Penny More, Not a Penny Less	Books	4	43	47	N	Y	Early novel shines -- almost	In some ways, this is my favourite Archer novel -- the plot and the characters are wonderful.<br />The book suffers from his lack of experience  (it was his first published novel). The story is slow to get started  (considering the length of the novel) and the ending is more contrived than  the endings of his later books. Occasionally, the dialogue is stilted, and  there are viewpoint shifts that happen without notice.<br />However, Archer  is a great storyteller, and this story just keeps moving. Essentially, this  is a revenge tale, in which four men swindled by a master con-artist decide  to get back exactly what he stole from them. They embark on a series of  scams in order to extract the money from the miscreant. The scams are just  barely believable, and one of the strengths of the book is the way that the  author drags you in and gets you to believe that these exotic plots can  work.<br />This is an excellent short novel, with lots of light suspense and  much to admire. It is well worth the time it takes to read.	2000-08-10
US	52952536	R36HS30QKP0ZRP	0451402774	354862691	Silk and Shadows (Onyx)	Books	5	11	17	N	N	A great book	Silk and Shadows is a fabulous book. Mary Jo Putney is a terrific writer,  and this book is a fine example of her craft. The writing is fluent and  graceful. The best thing about the writing is the characterization. Even  minor characters are well-drawn and believable as people. The villian in  this novel is extremely evil, but the author makes this completely  believable by showing his thought processes.<br />The plot is complex but very  tightly drawn. All actions are motivated and most revelations are  foreshadowed with a deft hand that does not draw attention to itself. The  surface action provides a context for the more important evolution of the  main characters over the course of the book.<br />This book stands up to  rereading, and I don't mean skipping around and reading the best parts kind  of rereading. I was able to sit down and reread the book from start to  finish, and I was just as absorbed in it the second time around.	2000-08-09
US	52952536	R273FI2CSR42CB	0451403010	932836437	Silk and Secrets (Onyx)	Books	5	14	17	N	N	High adventure and serious romance	Mary Jo Putney has produced a novel which combines several wonderful  features. Set in an exotic locale and peopled with complex characters, this  book would fall down under its own weight if Mary Jo Putney were not such a  great writer. The minor characters are very well-drawn. The setting is  evoked in a way that brings the heat right into your living room. The plot  makes sense. The book is full of surprises that shimmer with absolute  rightness once the shock wears off. <br />However, these are only bonuses. The  heart of this book (as in any romance novel) are the main characters. These  are characters who knew each other in the past and are now separated by a  series of tragic events. I know, that sounds trite, but these tragic events  are so well-motivated and spring so securely out of the characters as we  come to know them in this book, that they are absolutely believable. In  this book, we are dealing with two complex people who have hurt each other  and hurt themselves. Their adventure provides an arena for working out  these problems and finding a way to go forward. The hero and the heroine  are each profoundly changed by their adventure, and yet the change seems to  make each one only more strongly himself or herself.<br />This book stands up  well to rereading. It's a keeper.	2000-08-09
US	52952536	R255Z86PCSBHTW	0451403487	882899306	Veils of Silk (Onyx)	Books	5	14	14	N	N	Exotic locale, sultry romance, what more could you want?	Well, some things you might want are believable main characters, an  interesting plot that grows out of the historical setting, a cast of  supporting characters who each seem so finely drawn as to deserve a novel  of their own, and smooth, fluent writing. If that's your wish list for a  historical romance novel, this one delivers.<br />The most amazing thing about  this novel is the main characters. Both are flawed individuals whose flaws  first seem to fit together beautifully (so they embark on a marriage built  around those &quot;flaws&quot;), but as the story unfolds, this fit  disintegrates, leaving them with the challenge of addressing their  individual demons and coming together, or blowing apart in a maelstrom of  hurt and anger. The heroine alternately embraces and rejects her own  struggle, in an entirely plausible way, and eventually takes ahold of  herself and steps up to the challenge posed by her marriage. The hero,  meanwhile, is fighting his own battles against the results of being  traumatized (as a minor character in the earlier novel _Silk_and_Secrets_,  which I also recommend). In the end, these characters come together as  healed lovers, whose healing grew out of their courage.<br />And it's all  believably set in 19th century India. The place and time are evoked  beautifully, and the action of the plot is firmly grounded in history. In  some ways, the plot is a little over-wrought, but then, so was British  India at that time.<br />This book stands up to rereading wonderfully.	2000-08-09
US	52952536	R22C2RSSYZWZM7	0312181108	477658660	I Capture the Castle	Books	5	4	5	N	Y	A seductive, glowing book	This is a &quot;small&quot; book. The scene is circumscribed, the  characters few, and the action minor. Yet is is a beautifully written,  achingly real book about the passage from girlhood to adulthood. And in the  end, the story seems bigger than it is.<br />My only complaint about this book  is that I can never again read it for the first time.	2000-08-05
US	52952536	R136MOLG0TE5ZH	0345363132	74059498	The Sunne in Splendour	Books	5	10	12	N	N	Shining, Glorious Book	Penman writes beautifully of other times, bringing them to life, and  making the reader care desperately for her characters. All her books are  wonderful. <br />This, however, is the best of the lot. It was a labour of  love, written when she did not know that she would be a successful author.  This story is the story she had to tell, and tell it she does. Even knowing  how it will all turn out does not distract from the suspense she weaves.  Whatever your opinion about the facts of Richard III's life, you will be  drawn into this telling. Yes, the plot is determined by Penman's opinion  about whether Richard killed the little princes or not. But that's not  where the power of the book lies.<br />The prose shines with clarity and  grace. The characters seem real enough to touch. The pacing is splendid.  The storytelling is compelling. This is a book to read and savour.	2000-08-05
US	52952536	RECF39GHUHG6O	0671876465	588506568	Mirror Dance (Miles Vorkosigan Adventures)	Books	5	19	22	N	N	A completely mesmerizing book	I knew this was a great book when I got to the end and found myself turning back to the front of the book to reread it immediately. <br />It's  hard to talk about specific things I liked without giving the plot away,  but the general, I loved the quality of the writing. It was fluent,  graceful and filled with moments of aching beauty. The characters are all  well-drawn and completely believable. (For example, in a community of  clones, the author manages to make individual stand out without letting the  reader forget that this is a community of clones -- and without being  obtrusive about either point.)<br />And then there is the plot. In many ways,  this is the critical book in Miles' story, as it sets him up for the  struggles and epiphanies of _Memory_. Here, Mark moves from being a foil  for Miles, and becomes a character in his own right. In writing from Mark's  point of view through much of the book, Bujold humanizes him. As his  horrific experiences alter his way of being in the world, he becomes  steadily more sympathetic. While all this is going on, the action never  lets up: battles and mysteries and escapes; amnesia and botched missions  and mothers reuniting with sons they didn't know they had. The action is  exceedingly well-paced, and is never heavy-handed. Bujold foreshadows  beautifully, and all the surprises work on two levels: they surprise and  yet once they occur, you know that it could not have been any other  way.<br />I can't say whether the book would have had as great an effect on me  had I not read the previous books in the Vorkosigan saga. Reading when I  did, I was fascinated by Mark, by Miles, by the actual, painful changes  that they each went through.<br />In sum: beautiful writing, deep  characterizatons, astonishing mental interiors, and an action-filled plot.  This is not mind candy: this is literature.	2000-08-05
US	52952536	R3UVZQL9Q25ZK	0452277051	203341062	The People's Choice: A Novel	Books	4	19	19	N	N	Good story, excellent ideas	A well-written, very funny book. Subtle satire and laugh-out-loud  scenes  co-exist in this thought-provoking novel which digs up the underside of the  Electoral College system and turns it over so we can see it in all its  so-called-glory.<br />I've given copies of this book to several people, all of  whom have been inspired by it to go read the Constitution of the United  States, to see just how plausible the plot is. That's not a bad effect for  a book to have on people.<br />In any case, whether it makes you think or not,  it is undeniably a very funny book with unforgettable characters and  situations. The writing is fine: realtively fluent and unobtrusive. And  Jeff Greenfield has a very good eye for the ridiculous, while maintaining a  high level of compassion for people who are doing the best they  can.<br />Definitely recommended in an election year.	2000-08-04
US	52952536	R3H8VEDG1R4ZN0	0345433351	389360086	The China Bride (The Bride Trilogy)	Books	4	20	22	N	Y	Excellent writing, wonderful characterization	Mary Jo Putney is a great writer. This book is quite good. The hero is  believable, the heroine is extremely interesting, the story moves along  nicely. The technical aspects of the book are very good, for the most part.  The writing is always fluent and often graceful. The characters are  well-developed and distinct.<br />The plot was a little weak, compared to  other Putney novels, and is the reason I gave the book four stars instead  of five. While the final crisis is foreshadowed (just barely), it doesn't  seem to fit into the novel seamlessly. That is, the dramatic crisis was  jarring in the context of the book. Additionally, there were one or two  moments when the heroine acted in unmotivated ways. Interestingly, these  actions were usually justified after the fact. However, Troth was a  viewpoint character, so it doesn't make sense that her actions should be  unmotivated when they occur, and only explained by her thoughts later.<br />On  the whole, it was a very enjoyable book, and I recommend it to anyone who  wants to read a good historical romance. But it is not the equal of the  books in the Silks trilogy. I *did* very much enjoy the glimpse of an older  Duchess of Candover.	2000-08-04
US	52952536	R2YDGG15VMT2OW	0688140718	715515193	Trapped in the Mirror: Adult Children of Narcissists in their Struggle for Self	Books	4	65	73	N	Y	A mostly useful book	This book provides lots of examples of the ways in which growing up with narcissistic parents affects the child's entire life. Some of the anecdotes were entirely illuminating and helped me understand what my husband's life  (with is narcissistic mother) has been like. This author explores lots of  possible consequences, and how they can combine in one person. I liked her  attention to the interactions of the various responses in a single  case.<br />However, I found the book to be weak in two areas. First, the book  is ultimately pessimistic. The message seems to be &quot;You can be better,  but only a little better, and maybe the best you can hope for is to get to  where you can see why you do the unhelpful things you do.&quot; Second, the  book fails to address one of the results of being raised by a narcissist:  lack of empathy. If a child does not learn this at a young age, it is  difficult to acquire it later. In lots of her examples, you can see that  some of the problems her cases have in their lives come from their stunted  empathetic abilities, but she never mentions it. As a result, she never  shows how addressing this might help shift the balance.<br />And speaking as a  person who lives with the child of a narcissist, the lack of empathy is one  of the hardest things to deal with in such a person. It's hard, after 11  years, for me to remember that my husband has no genuine empathy. This was  his legacy from his narcissistic mother, and I wish it had been addressed  in this otherwise useful book.	2000-07-27
US	52952536	R3ATCZ5XSDV7GF	0684842998	850796975	Narcissism	Books	3	132	153	N	Y	A helpful, but flawed, book	This book provides an good overview of narcissism, along with some very enlightening case studies. The introduction is a terrific overview of the whole landscape of narcissism. The book had a great deal of interesting  information in it, along with some insight into how narcissism is passed  from one generation to the next. The author wrote with a lot of compassion  and insight into the narcissist's inner world.<br />However, I felt that the  book was limited in several ways. First, it posits a continuum of  narcissistic patterns which strikes me as too simplistic to account for the  various ways in which narcissism recreates itself in the children of  narcissists. Second, there was a great deal of attention paid to a  particular clinical approach which was insufficiently explicated (that is,  having to stop and figure out what he must mean when he described various  bio-energetic therapy activities distracted me from the main point of what  I was reading). Finally, the writing was somewhat wooden and often drew my  attention away from the subject at hand.<br />On the whole, this was a  valuable book. It just seemed that the author *almost* wrote a better book,  and it's that better book that I really wanted to read.	2000-07-27
US	52952536	R2BF5Q27CLLAK8	0060175532	597329210	Young Wives: A Novel	Books	4	20	22	N	Y	Typical Goldsmith -- high high quality mind candy	I read this book in one (very LATE) evening. This is what always happens to me when I buy an Olivia Goldsmith book. Why? Well, she is a fluent writer, with a fine sense of pacing. She has a devious mind, with which she  plays out every revenge fantasy you ever had.<br />Now, it is certainly true  that Goldsmith chooses the landscape between men and women as the venue for  her most outrageous revenge escapades, and thus men in her books fall into  three categories:<br />(1) complete slime balls who deserve far worse than  ever happens to them in these books<br />(2) wonderful gentle perfect men who  turn out to be the ideal love interest for the women who were treated badly  by men of type #1<br />(3) supporting characters, who, when they do not fall  into categories #1 and #2, always turn out to be gay<br />This book is no  exception. Bad men, loving women who were done wrong, revenge which tosses  the men farther down than they tossed their women, and lots of emotional  catharsis.<br />The three main characters had the usual Goldsmith adventures  and all ended up significantly better off than they had been at the  beginning of the book. (And at the beginning of the book, two of them  thought they had great marriages.)<br />You don't have to believe all men are  pigs to enjoy this fiction, but you do have to be willing to believe that  smart women frequently choose men who turn out to be pigs. Put aside what  you know about real men, and their complex combinations of good and bad  qualities, and wallow in the rollicking story provided for your spare-time  enjoyment.<br />What can I say? It was great fun.	2000-07-14
US	52952536	R1W14PP9SALYIX	0312974132	769451414	A Little Scandal	Books	1	3	10	N	Y	This book could not hold my attention	I tried to like this book. The first few pages were promising. I liked Kate, at first.<br />But I did not like the hero, and after awhile, the story just got boring, tedious and not worth my time. I finished the book, but I  wish I hadn't.	2000-07-10
US	52952536	R3JYXPRMFX1N1E	0375405046	761338189	NoBrow: The Culture of Marketing - the Marketing of Culture	Books	2	39	41	N	Y	Disappointingly self-indulgent	This book is not as interesting as it sounds. The author has a single  insight which he strings out over several hundred pages of gloriously  self-indulgent prose. <br />The book sounded intriguing, so I bought it. The  basic idea was interesting so I started to read it. The writing was facile  and fluent, so I kept on reading, hoping to find something in it besides  self-indulgent reflections on popular culture and how cool the author is to  be on the &quot;inside&quot;.<br />I believe that MTV has some kind of deep  meaning, but this book's discussion of it fails to uncover that meaning. I  suppose there is something new to say about Tina Brown and the New Yorker  -- this book fails to say it.<br />This book holds the promise of explaining  what the convolutions of the New yorker in recent years mean as a parable  of the changing cultural mores. However, and sadly, it fails to deliver on  its promise, and in the end is a self-indulgent memoir of one man's odessey  through popular culture.<br />Not really bad, this book is primarily a  disappointment.	2000-07-09
US	52952536	R1V3XWRUWQSI3W	042517428X	983788058	The Burning Point	Books	3	32	39	N	Y	A Little Too Facile	Mary Jo Putney writes astonishingly wonderful and complex novels. In them, people confront deep flaws in themselves and overcome them. Her characters always seem real and the resolutions usually overcome the implausibility  (an alcoholic engaging in what sure looked like 12-step based recovery, on  his own, in Regency England, is hard to believe, yet the author made it  seem plausible).<br />So, in this first cross-over novel (the author's first  contemporary novel, rather than an historical romance), I was figuring that  whatever transformation/redemption themes she selected would now not have  to work against the historical background to seem plausible.<br />I really  wanted to believe that this story could be true as told. To make it  possible for me to keep on believing in the storyline, I had to embroider  what she wrote about what the hero did after his wife left him. The author  did not do enough work showing me the change, so I had to make it up as I  went along.<br />I believe in transformation. I believe that people can and do  wake up and realize that their lives don't work, and that they address  their problems. I believe that addicts can go into recovery, and that  people who are self-destructive can learn not to be, and that people who  have undeniably messed up their lives can pick up the pieces and go on. I  want to believe that people who hurt other people, physically and  emotionally, can grow past it.<br />This book offers a hero who is flawed, as  flawed as any hero in any other Mary Jo Putney novel. (For what it's worth,  I own every single novel she has ever written.) This book offers the hope  of redemption.<br />People can change. I just wanted to see more of the  change. I had to work too hard, against what I know about violence and  control, to believe in the transformation. I guess that the hero said he  was changed, and his behavior was different, but we never saw the  transformation.<br />I know. That's how it works in real life. Peopledo the  hard work of changing inside, where it is not always (or even often)  visible to the outside. But when she showed the Regency rake overcoming his  drinking problem, it was believable, because it was shown. In this book,  despite the fact that the hero is a viewpoint character, we don't get to  see the change, we just get a report on it.<br />Men (and women) who use  physical and emotional violence CAN change. They DO change. It's a hard  transformation, and it does not change just that one aspect of the person.  But Donovan seems like the same great guy, just without his old flaw.<br />I  want to believe in Donovan's transformation. I was able, with a great deal  of effort, to maintain that belief while reading the book. But I really  don't want to work that hard when I read a book.	2000-05-08
US	52952536	R3M4FWY7QIQ58Y	0062500171	696270857	Reality Isn't What It Used to Be: Theatrical Politics, Ready-to-Wear Religion, Global Myths, Primitive Chic, and Other Wonders of the Postmodern World	Books	5	34	37	N	N	Want to Understand Post-modernism? Read This Book!	This book explains post-modernism in a way that is stripped of jargon and academic excess. It is an enjoyable book to read, and quite informative. The author makes a good case that the world has been altered by the existence of post-modernism, even for those who do not accept it as their  worldview. I found that argument to be compelling, and the book as a whole  to be a useful insight into the entire post-modernist enterprise.	2000-05-03
US	52952536	R3NHV9KBFP90ZQ	0517595001	860072810	At Home with Books: How Booklovers Live with and Care for Their Libraries	Books	5	147	150	N	Y	A book for the person who owns too many books	The last time I moved, I had the movers weigh our books. We hadover 5 1/2 tons of books. <br />When you live with a lot of books,they become, by default, a major theme in your decor. This lovely,wonderful book demonstrates ways to incorporate large quantities of books into your life in a way that is stylish and beautiful, but which also permits access to the book you just have to have in your hands, right this second.<br />The photographs demonstrate just what it means to be a bibiophile, and they provide inspiration to anyone wondering just how to deal with having too many books.<br />And in the end, feeling that I own too many books is a result of not having a reasonable way to store them all. This book provides ideas which made it possible for me to change my attitude -- no longer an owner of too many books, I am now a book lover at home with my books.<br />(Plus, reading this book reminds me that there are other people with large, well-read and well-loved libraries. If you are one of them, you will love this book.)  END	2000-04-26
US	52952536	RO0RFMTUC33IZ	0899669409	448151960	A Joyous Season	Books	5	8	8	N	N	A Classic	When I was a child, I took this book off my parents' bookshelf and stayed up all night reading it. I'm lucky that my bedroom was upstairs and away from anyone else's bedroom, because I giggled all night.<br />Earlier this year, I laid my hands on a copy of the book (no way I would get away with  permanently borrowing my parents' copy), and it is just as funny, just as  insightful and just as joyous as it ever was. <br />Populated with an  outrageous cast of characters, and with children who are wiser, smarter and  more pleasant than the adults, this ought to be a forgettable book. But  it's not. I remembered it for 35 years before I got a chance to reread it.  And it was every bit as good as I recalled.	2000-04-24
US	52952536	R38D897P9E37U7	0671023241	978144917	Time on My Hands	Books	4	5	5	N	Y	Time and Again, or maybe not	This book reminds me irresistably of Jack Finney's _Time_and_Again_, and yet it is completely different. For the first three-quarters of the book, it is a stylish, tightly-woven narrative with believable characters and plausible (if unpredictable) plot twists. Then in the last quarter, it  falls apart into a more self-indulgent narrative. I'm hoping for a sequel,  since the book seemed fundamentally unfinished.<br />I'd give it five stars if  it ended as well as it began.	2000-04-24
US	52952536	R2DRAZR5GHAEL8	0030632544	578129484	Any Four Women Could Rob the Bank of Italy	Books	5	20	20	N	N	An intelligent, amusing book	One summer in Italy, two women find themselves being waved through roadblocks just because it never occurs to the police that women could be the criminals they seek. One says to the other, &quot;any four women could  rob the bank of Italy and get away with it while the police searched for  four men.&quot; As this joke evolves first into an idea for a screenplay  and then, unexpectedly, into the plans for a daring crime, a large cast of  characters living in a Tuscan village move into action. Well-written,  nicely paced, and full of laugh-out-loud passages.	2000-04-12
US	52952536	R1M9B50G38SC0J	1579590241	288576157	Living With Books	Books	2	41	44	N	N	A couple of good photos	If you want to see suggestions for how to live with large quantities of books, buy &quot;At Home With Books&quot;. If you have some money left over after that, buy this book. There are lots of pictures, mostly not very  inspiring, or very useful to a person who owns a lot of books. On the other  hand,  three or four of the photos were very inspiring.<br />Still, &quot;At  Home With Books&quot; had a lot more to  offer in the way of inspiration  and ideas. I'm not sorry I bought this book, but I would be if my  book-buying budget were even slightly more restricted than it is.	2000-02-14
US	52952536	RHTZV4BNI18X9	0060154861	932937739	Herbs and Apples	Books	4	8	8	N	N	Fascinating Twist on a Cliche	This book is well worth reading, especially if you liked ...And Ladies of the Club. It's a less amibitious book, but a finely wrought one. It takes all the cliches of the coming-of-age novel and transcends them at the same  time as it sheds a new light on them. The main character is entirely  believable, as is the resolution of her dilemma.	2000-01-29
US	52952536	R1LHCS6HG11J5M	0451186044	310302036	The Secret	Books	4	6	7	N	Y	Surprisingly good	All the way through this book, I was surprised at how much I enjoyed it.<br />On the whole, I think the book could have been stronger. We never really got to see the early parts of the marriage which was supposedly so  great. Stephen's descent into madness was a little unbelievable, and the  ending was too contrived.<br />HOWEVER. It held my attention, and I liked it  in spite of its flaws. I think this is because the main character was  believable, and her transformation was also believable.<br />On the whole,  excellent mind candy, recommended for a lazy afternoon or a long plane  trip.	1999-11-07
US	52952536	R2U6ES2JSJ6GD9	0425161854	464397463	Husband, Lover, Stranger	Books	1	5	8	N	Y	Who cares about these people?	This book spent its entire length being almost interesting, almost compelling, almost enjoyable.<br />Sophie was cardboard. The author kept hinting at how her past had affected her. There is a sentence on the last  page which made a lot of Sophie's character make sense, but by then it was  too late.<br />The story idea was interesting, but the author was unable to  make me care about any of the characters.	1999-11-07
