US	52952769	R2RF50JWBKG741	0805067205	280975572	Balsamic Dreams: A Short But Self-Important History of the Baby Boomer Generation	Books	3	10	11	N	N	Mildly funny and very clever	There is no denying that Balsamic Dreams, by Joe Queenan, is funny, clever, and entertaining to read.  But a consequence of being a prolific writer is that readers might read your other books and compare or even prefer them to you latest offering.  Such is my assessment of Queenan's most recent book, &quot;Balsamic Dreams,&quot; which is subtitled &quot;A Short But Self-Important History of the Baby Boomer Generation.<br />The book is a loose collection of essays that excoriate, dissect, and firmly pin to the dart board the stereotypical &quot;Baby Boomer&quot; (a term which, with his usual irony, Queenan capitalizes).  For Queenan's purposes, the official definition of a Baby Boomer is slightly outside the officially recognized statistical boundaries and includes those born between 1943 and 1960 or 1962.  In his &quot;Disclaimer Chapter,&quot; Queenan humbly acknowledges his own membership in this group.  In short, Queenan defines the generation, which he calls &quot;a mindset as much as a demographic group,&quot; thusly:<br />To qualify as a Baby Boomer, a person must have been deeply affected at a relatively early age by a significant number of the following:  the Soviet Union's development of the hydrogen bomb, Elvis, Sputnik, the Thunderbird, the Twist, the 1960 Nixon-Kennedy Debate, the Bay of Pigs, the Cuban Missile Crisis, Muhammad Ali's defeat of Sonny Liston, JFK's assassination, the Beatles, the civil Rights Movement, Martin Luther King's assassination, assorted other assassinations, the Tet Offensive, the Days of Rage, the Strawberry Statement, LBJ's self-furlough, Muhammad Ali's defeat at the hands of Joe Frazier, Jimi Hendrix's death, Jim Morrison's death, Janis Joplin's death, Duane Allman's death, Woodstock, Easy Rider, The Graduate, Joe, 2001: A Space Odyssey, Altamont, Charles Manson, the breakup of the Beatles, the secret invasion of Cambodia, Watergate, Richard Nixon's resignation.<br />Having set the parameters of his targeted foes, Queenan skewers them with his laser-like, sardonic wit.  Notable &quot;high misdemeanors&quot; of the offending generation are:  the habit of middle-aged men to wear ponytails and sandals in an effort to look &quot;cool&quot; to the next generation; their propensity for bogus and un-enriching self-improvement courses given by charlatans such as Deepak Chopra; listening to weak, uninspiring music by Billy Joel and Rod Stewart; naming their children with odd, androgynous names and substituting irritating and ineffective &quot;parenting&quot; techniques for raising their children with solid, traditional, middle-class values; and, most egregious of all, selling out the revolutionary values they held as young adults in exchange for &quot;the good life.&quot;<br />As previously mentioned, this book was good, and it was funny, but it was not as enjoyable or as outright hilarious as a previous Queenan work, entitled &quot;Red Lobster, White Trash, and the Blue Lagoon,&quot; which details Queenan's effort to experience and survive all manner of pop culture phenomena, such as Kenny G. concerts, reading Shogun, and seeing the play Cats.  &quot;Red Lobster&quot; was so funny, I could hardly breathe or see the page for my hysterical laughter, and in a first experience for me, I howled with glee even at the index.  &quot;Balsamic Dreams&quot; has its funny parts and its clever parts, but it also has some or repetitive boring stretches.  It also employs some methods of narration or parody that simply don't work or wear out quickly, as in Queenan's fantasy alternative history of America as seen through the eyes of politically and environmentally correct and pacifistic Baby Boomers.  By all means read &quot;Balsamic Dreams,&quot; but reward yourself by following up with &quot;Red Lobster.&quot;	2001-09-06
US	52952769	R21ZNCFW96NP8Z	0312262345	383448816	Spontaneous: A Novel	Books	2	4	6	N	N	Unnecessarily disturbing but good at character &amp; atmosphere	Some folks thrive on visiting the dark side, the underbelly of mankind's worst transgressions of human decency. Others, like myself, prefer to leave it alone -- not necessarily denying its existence but rather shunning it. Therefore, Spontaneous, by Diana Wagman, will satisfy certain types of readers who prefer what is trendily called &quot;edgy&quot; fiction these days, while turning off readers like me who can either be called a bit prude or recognized as more discriminating.  The main subject matter of Spontaneous, the phenomenon of spontaneous human combustion (SHC), is an interesting and controversial issue, and had this theme been developed more fully, I would have found this book irresistible and compelling. But this fascinating topic seems to be more a red herring and is really the sub-plot, subsumed by the main plot which involves the incestuous and emotionally warped relationship between two sisters who have recently moved into the home of their &quot;Aunt&quot; Neddy, who perished in a fire allegedly caused by SHC. Aunt Neddy, a carnivorous, homosexual, and possibly pedophiliac mentor to the older sister, Amy, encourages Amy's physical relationship with her sister, Gwendolyn, as a way of solidifying their filial bond.  The two sisters, although close and interdependent, are different types. Amy takes after her Aunt Neddy, developing an insatiable appetite for meat that comforts her after Aunt Neddy dies of incineration and learning the ways of emotional manipulation from a woman who was a master at the skill. Gwendolyn is more &quot;normal&quot; and longs for a traditional life of marriage, children, and white-picket-fenced house. More than anything, Amy believes she wants this for her sister, but her twisted mind convinces her that she must seduce and abandon an unwitting (and slow-witted) repairman named Roosevelt in order to hand him over to her sister, while at the same time continuing her physical relationship with her.  Spontaneous seems to be aiming for shock value rather than spinning a satisfying tale. The story includes incest, dwarfism, extra-marital sex and group sex, swapping, attempted rape, fatal road rage in which a driver is beaten to death, and attempted murder. None of these elements adds much to the story and seem gratuitous, and in this the author shows her immaturity. On the plus side, the characters are well-developed and there were moments when the story flowed well. In her next effort, Diana Wagman should resist the impulse to indulge her fantasies and obsessions and write a story worth reading, because she shows promise with her ability in the depiction character and setting.	2001-06-06
US	52952769	R1VSI0LWQRIEVY	0895262320	71489	The Old Limey	Books	3	5	5	N	N	A slow beginning and a wacky, amusing end	The advance hype of The Old Limey, by H.W. Crocker, III, billed the author as &quot;a latter-day P.G. Wodehouse,&quot; which, as a devoted reader of Wodehouse and a participant in a Wodehouse usenet group, piqued my interest and had me stampeding for dibs on reviewing this book. But as I read the book, its style and tone reminded me less of Wodehouse than of Thomas Pynchon, legendary purveyor of hallucinogenic fiction filled with themes of global, geo-political conspiracy and Armageddon on the one hand and the minutia of the lives of its warped, twisted characters on the other hand. The Old Limey fits well into that genre of total lunacy mixed with a political message. <br />The story begins with Brigadier General Nigel Haversham's odyssey from the stuffy, dusty clubs of England to the barrios of Los Angeles to rescue and recover his goddaughter who has been kidnapped by her boyfriend's drug dealer cohorts. General Haversham (the eponymous Old Limey) has a rich fantasy life based upon embellished reminiscences of his years as an &quot;old campaigner&quot; in the various outposts of the British colonies. In certain respects, he does resemble a Wodehouse character in his slavish devotion to better times &quot;when men were men,&quot; and the sun never set on the British Empire. Wodehouse himself preferred to place his stories in an unidentifiable era placed between the great World Wars, in which certain standards prevailed and nothing ever changed, even when he was writing for readers born generations later. General Haversham dwells mainly in the past and his actions are driven by old mores that seem curiously fresh and exotic to the thoroughly modern characters he encounters in Los Angeles -- his values and tactics are so old, they're new. <br />In his quest to rescue his goddaughter from her boyfriend's drug dealer associates, Los Lobos Colorados (or Los Locos Constipatos, as General Haversham refers to them), General Haversham enlists the help of a decidedly motleycrew that includes two typical California ..., three Vietnam Veterans (code named Rebel Yell), a group of ... Jamaicans (code named Jamaican ...), and several menacing suit-and-horn-rimmed-glasses-wearing devotees of the Watts-based Islamic leader, the Esteemed Mr. Iced Kalifah (code named Black Jihad). His sales patter includes conning them into believing he is working on behalf of the British secret service. As he relives his glory days as a commander in Her Majesty's Armed Forces, General Haversham fantasizes about not only rescuing his goddaughter, but annexing the State of California for his country and turning it into an Islamic State in which he would be obliged, as its ruler, to take four wives, one of whom would be the Duchess of York, Fergie, as a favor to the Queen to take her off the royal family's hands and remove her from their hair. (General Haversham's gallantry knows no bounds.) <br />The surreal quality and downright silliness of author Crocker's narrative had me giggling at certain points towards the end of the story, particularly when General Haversham started comandeering his bizarre and disparate army of rescuers. Although the story moved slowly at the beginning, it picked up steam as General Haversham, disguised as a Don King look-alike in an effort to avoid a repeat of the mugging he had suffered the night before, prowls the bars and nightclubs in search of his goddaughter. The story's ending was a bit far-fetched and anticlimactic, but by then it didn't really seem to matter. If you have a taste for the outlandish and the downright farcical, you will enjoy this story. It also helps to be an Anglophile with some knowledge of the culture and customs, not to mention the history of the imperial reign of Great Britain.	2001-05-11
US	52952769	R3G5HFQORBW4E7	044990945X	105659505	A Walk Across France	Books	4	7	9	N	N	Fun, amusing, and inspiring	I enjoyed the bemused, self-deprecating tone of the narrator in this story.  He is a typical Englishman and he knows it, and he plays this as a strength in giving us his impression of life, the Walk he and his half-French wife take across France, and his mid-life crisis.  As I read the book, I felt like I was making a friend. <br />The descriptions of the countryside and the sights were a little sparse, and I found it hard to imagine what it all looked like.  Also, the snippets of history provided were a little jarring and disconnected, and not terribly interesting.  But the thing that makes this book a winner and redeems it is the gentle and wide-eyed optimism of its protagonists, the Morlands, as well as their indomitable spirit in facing the hardships of walking hundreds of miles.<br />I was hoping to learn a little more about France, but still thought this book was a nice read for while I was commuting on the subway to work.  Sometimes my journey felt like it was paralleling the Morlands'.<br />I recommend this book if you like travelogues and are interested in France.	2001-04-04
US	52952769	R2JPVB82BM7PD5	1585420093	246791370	The Right to Write: An Invitation and Initiation into the Writing Life	Books	5	17	20	N	N	Offers wise, comforting advice	I found myself nodding my head in recognition many times in reading this book.  Maybe that's because I'm a writer and Julia Cameron has an uncanny ability to gather her flock and preach the good word about the benefits of writing while cutting through the b.s.  Specifically, each chapter takes on and debunks a myth about why writing isn't feasible for normal human beings, and why writing is too hard to do; then she offers an exercise that addresses and remedies each doubt.  The result is that she sweeps away all the excuses and gives one an incentive to try again.  <br />Her writing is compassionate, not condescending, and offers practical and useful exercises for all sorts of writers and writing formats.  In addition, Cameron demonstrates the diversity of the types of writing she does (novels, writing instruction, screen plays, poems), and acts as an excellent role model for all types of aspiring writers.  Cameron offers by turns commmiseration, encouragement, signposts of recognition, and other talismans of hope and faith.  <br />I found this book helpful, practical, comforting, and motivating.	2001-01-10
US	52952769	R1ZQ3AYE2CR94K	1565072324	31471370	If Teacups Could Talk: Sharing a Cup of Kindness with Treasured Friends (Teatime Pleasures)	Books	5	29	30	N	N	Offers spiritual refreshment	This book is about tea, but it's also about the spiritual refreshment that the tea ceremony offers.  Interlarded between recipes and hints about making the occasion of taking tea special, the author, Emily Barnes, offers her view of how taking tea can become a spiritual, even a religious experience, one in which the participants can reach out to their friends, family, and God.  This is a gentle book that does not proselytize, but rather offers a new outlook on a very old tradition, the tea hour.  The illustrations are charming, the recipes are tempting, and the spiritual awakening is optional and a bonus.	2000-12-29
US	52952769	R3MSLQUO2MU2FK	0517560070	242963103	Having Tea: Recipes & Table Settings	Books	5	72	75	N	N	Lush photography and tasty recipes	The photos in this book transport the reader to settings of fantastic themed teas, such as a picnic, a Christmas celebration, a hotel tea dance, or a scholar's study.  The lush photography and the care that was taken to provide appropriate illustrations to accompany the recipes is worth the price of the book alone.  But wait -- there are some darn good recipes here too.  I love the honey mustard chicken -- it comes out moist, even using lean white meat.  The Irish soda bread is hardy and irrestistably savory with the addition of caraway seeds.  And the corn muffins are perfect for a cold winter's breakfast.  There is some valuable information about tea, its preparation, and the accoutrements of the tea ceremony, although the emphasis is on the western tea ceremony, as opposed to the eastern version.  This book was the first I bought about tea, and it inspired a rather large collection of tea books.  Please see the list I created at my Amazon home page for my recommendations on other great tea books.  This book is a valuable gift from the authors to all fans of tea.	2000-12-29
US	52952769	RWTWZY916V1C5	0067575137	507908651	A Passion for Flowers	Books	5	26	26	N	N	Incredible photography of the most beautiful flowers	The flowers depicted in this book gave their lives for a truly noble cause and have been honored appropriately by the photographer.  Quite simply they were displayed and photographed in the most beautiful fashion possible.  Perhaps the key word there is fashion -- Carolyn Roehm has the experience and eye for fashion, having been a former designer, and that experience may be what enabled her to display the flowers in a way that truly does them justice.  I coveted this book for a long while, having seen it in a bookstore, and couldn't get it out of my mind.  Now that I own it, I consider myself very fortunate indeed.  The book is divided into the four seasons.  Particularly strong are the photos depicting the flowers prevalent in Fall and Spring.  The smoky greens, yellows, oranges, reds, and browns of the Fall months's foliage manage to look festive and lovely despite their representing the waining of life until the Spring.  The photos of lilacs and daffodils in the section on Spring make one hopeful for the end of winter and make one realize why all that shivering is eventually worthwhile.  I loved this book and recommend it heartily for anyone who loves pretty flowers and doesn't particularly have any special horticultural knowledge.	2000-12-29
US	52952769	R1FNTJIH0OTPTS	0688164307	676595009	Every Day's a Party: Louisiana Recipes For Celebrating With Family And Friends	Books	3	19	20	N	N	A bit disorganized, but if you love Emeril you'll like this	When reading a cookbook by Emeril Lagasse, the first thing one has to realize in assessing its merit is that most people either love or hate Emeril.  Since I love Emeril, I assumed I'd love this book.  But I've read enough good cookbooks to recognize a not-so-good one when I see it and I'd have to put this one in that so-so category.  The recipes are interesting to read, if not to prepare, and their typical over-the-top piling on of ingredients which is Emeril's signature I find to be exciting and inspiring.  On the other hand, the book itself is not terribly well organized.  It is separated into events, or celebratory occasions, instead of types of dishes (i.e., appetizers, main courses, desserts, etc.).  This makes it hard to absorb or remember what is in this book, harder still to compare the merits of one type of recipe with another.  For instance, if you're looking for a great appetizer to make for a party, you have to scan the whole book to figure out if it has anything appropriate to offer.  I'm not real fond of this format.  I don't buy the criticism that Emeril's writing technique assumes knowledge -- his style is to be a teacher wherever possible.  I also think that anyone who would like to cook or read about low-fat food really has no business reading Emeril's stuff, so that's not a fair criticism either.  Overall, the book offers typical Emeril fare, which I happen to like, but it does so in a confusing and haphazard manner which I didn't feel comfortable wading through.  I wouldn't recommend this book for anyone who either hates Emeril or needs information at the tips of their fingers.	2000-12-29
US	52952769	RL0RP2XXWTMGT	0312202911	620382425	Far From the Tree	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Telling it like it is about mothers and daughters	Stories that welcome you in from the very first chapter are rare and exciting discoveries that must be savored and shared.  Thusly must I praise and recommend wholeheartedly Far From the Tree, by Virginia DeBerry and Donna Grant, best friends whose mission is to tell it like it is about mothers, daughters, girlfriends and women in general.  The authors' unusual practice of tandem writing in the novel format understandably might spawn skepticism, but fear not -- the writing is seamless, the story flows like a river, and the only difference in voices is that of the characters themselves.<br />Celeste and Ronnie are sisters who are very different:  Celeste is a rigid, controlling social climber with an obsessive concern for material possessions, social position, and propriety.  Ronnie is a dreamer, an aspiring (and unsuccessful) actress/model who has trouble keeping a fixed address or phone number and who lives hand to mouth.  Celeste and Ronnie inherit a mysterious piece of property from their recently-deceased father, Will, which elicits rage and hostility from their mother, Della, whose childhood home it was.  Despite their mother's enigmatic protestations, the sisters decide to visit the house and land, located in a miniscule North Carolina town called Prosper, with an eye towards selling it.  <br />For both sisters, the trip is also an escape.  For Ronnie, it's a way to regroup and strategize about her impoverished life as a would-be actress; and for Celeste it's a hideaway from her prying, highbrow, phony friends from whom she wants to conceal the fact that her husband, Everett, is on the verge of divorcing her.  When the sisters start meeting the locals of Prosper who knew Della in her youth, they begin to learn details of the life she left behind and get an inkling of the traumatic events that caused her to leave Prosper, vowing never to return.  A medical emergency involving one of her daughters forces Della to come to Prosper, and the secrets about their lives that were buried by both the daughters and the mother begin to surface almost of their own volition.  The revelations bring the women together, and help them resolve their difficult, argumentative relationships with each other and the other people in their lives.<br />According to the authors' postscript, the title Far From the Tree refers to the legacy of character traits that gets handed down from mother to daughter in succeeding generations.  The authors' stated intent was to highlight the importance of learning from the experiences of preceding generations, to consider your elders from the point of view of their youth.  In this story the catharsis comes when Della finally shares with her daughters the truth about her past experiences, her childhood, and the decisions she made as a young woman.  The authors' premise is that much of Della's daughters' turmoil in their own lives was a result of not understanding why they thought and acted the way they did, having no knowledge of the mental and emotional inheritance they received from their mother:  stubbornness, secretiveness, and an unwillingness to love unconditionally.  This story is for real:  the dialogue is realistic, the sibling rivalry feels familiar, and the ambivalence to share grown-up feelings with a parent makes one nod with recognition.  Add to that a remarkable &quot;you are there&quot; quality of describing scenery and the characters' actions and thoughts, and what you're presented with is a very satisfying, emotionally-gripping, valuable story that has an important message to share.	2000-10-18
US	52952769	R22HYCCSQO3L6T	0312266480	642400470	The Song of the Tide	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Haunting and atmospheric coming-of-age story	Evocative and engrossing, Mary Ryan's The Song of the Tide creates a story with complex layers, emotions, and settings, describing them with skill and sympathy.  The heart and soul of Ryan's heroine, Aine O'Malley, reveal a flair for the dramatic, a vivid imagination, and a keen perception or prescience that become a burden as she grows older.  The lessons Aine learns about women's roles in society and the source of their satisfaction or power -- whether it is derived from domestic dominance or the ability to escape such ties -- runs in tandem with Aine's own struggle to escape her obsessions and ghosts.  Aine's folly results from her belief that her power to control situations or people's opinions is derived by what she leaves unsaid, and more often her reticence or lies create further turmoil and obstacles for her.<br />Aine's family owns a crumbling castle called Dunbeg, where the story begins with the arrival of Aine's American-born cousin, Rupert and fraternal aunt, Isabelle.  Even to 10-year-old Aine's perception, it soon becomes apparent that Aunt Isabelle is on the lam, running away from her husband.  Aine immediately forms an alliance and deep attachment to Rupert, her gentlemanly cousin from Virginia who is the first male that didn't pick on her (Aine comes from a family full of brothers).  In their explorations of the land surrounding the castle, Aine and Rupert fall afoul of a local resident tramp named Aeneas Shaw, a silly childhood misadventure with surprisingly far-reaching consequences.  Aine, already a martyr to nightmares and insomnia, privately adds her new Nemesis Shaw to her list of fears, but recants her initial reporting of Shaw's attack on her to the police because she feels sorry for him and does not want to be the cause of his confinement to a mental home or to prison.  In this one act, Aine establishes a pattern that will follow her throughout her adolescence and young adult years, in which she subverts her own fears about her safety, or allows others to convince her she's crazy or has an overly-vivid imagination, to the detriment of her well-being.  <br />When she is 10 years old, Aine suddenly faces down the taunts of her brothers, screaming &quot;From now on, I want some respect!&quot;, but it is not until a decade later that she realizes the power to gain freedom from such bad treatment is actually in her own hands, not in the hands of her tormenters both real and imagined.  Aine's role models, after all, are her aunt, who after fleeing her abusive, lecherous, alcoholic husband, returns and submits to his will, and her mother, whose attempts at an intellectually-satisfying life are thwarted by her husband's need for clean shirts and who ultimately turns to an unsatisfying and unsuccessful adulterous liaison as a means of escape.  Aine's Aunt Isabelle advises her thusly, after her outburst demanding respect:<br />&quot;'You must never, ever let them see it . . . Aine, darling,' she whispered.  'You must never show them!'  My mouth opened.  'Show them what?'  'You must never show men what you really feel,' she repeated.  'Men . . . eat feelings!  They have none of their own and they live off other people's.'&quot;<br />Aine seems to take this advice to heart and begins a lifelong habit of leaving things unsaid, lying to hide the truth, and being evasive with everyone, including herself.  The one constant in Aine's life is Rupert's friendship, and her one goal as she travels through puberty into womanhood, is to win his love.  What she finally realizes about herself as a woman and as an individual in her quest for his love makes for fascinating, dramatic reading.<br />The Song of the Tide is a lushly descriptive, hauntingly beautiful tale set in Ireland, England, and America, and each scene has an all-encompassing quality that surrounds the reader in a tangible atmosphere.  The reader is a witness, not only to the beautifully-described exteriors, such as the eerie castle Dunbeg and the sultry stateof Virginia, but is also privy to the interiors of Aine's mind and even her dreams.  The story succeeds on all levels to draw in the reader to a well-constructed plot, a complicated conflict, and a satisfying denouement.	2000-10-18
US	52952769	R242G7F68JPJ3T	0968586201	347986559	Starting With Tuscany	Books	5	3	4	N	N	More a memoir than a travelogue -- great stories	The best storytellers make you forget you're being told a story.  Your conscious thoughts disappear, you are absorbed into the mental picture the author is describing, and it's as if you are the proverbial &quot;fly on the wall,&quot; witnessing the events and even feeling as though you are a participant.  Giovanna Peel wields such a powerful pen in her evocative, absorbing memoir, Starting With Tuscany, that the story achieves more than just that of a travelogue, where the reader vicariously visits a foreign or previously-untasted locale, and instead remarkably transforms the reader into a relative, a playmate, or a neighbor of Ms. Peel's childhood in Tuscany.  <br />The book weaves a narrative of Ms. Peel's first trip back to her native Florence and the surrounding region known as Tuscany since she left it as a young woman.  Ms. Peel, who describes herself as the black sheep of her large, prototypically colorful Tuscan family, had moved to Canada where lived in self-imposed exile for thirty years.  She begins the trip home with a side trip to Provence with two friends, sort of a warm-up and re-acclimation to European ways before they continue on to Florence, Sienna, and other smaller towns in Tuscany.  The trip to Provence fills in some of Ms. Peel's background and foreshadows the fears she has about returning to her native Italy.  With her companions in tow, she is the apologetic European, trying to ease their path and explain away different customs and attitudes in order to save her friends discomfort and prevent cultural bias or confusion.  In her own mind, she fails miserably, and indeed she seems to derive little pleasure from her sojourn in Provence.<br />Her transition to Italy fares no better, and Ms. Peel's discomfort increases as she mentally tries to apologize for the idiosyncratic ways of her fellow countrymen, while at the same time unwillingly resurrecting a grudging sense of national pride and even a reluctant tolerance or acceptance of the reasonsfor such ways.  When her friends finally leave her alone in Italy, the introspective aspect of the narrative deepens and her enchanting reminiscences fill in the pages of her life.  One learns that her father was a German Communist Jew who was persecuted by the Italian government and arrested with regularity.  Her mother, with whom Ms. Peel was in constant conflict, had not enough love to go around after caring for her politically-dangerous and amorously-philandering husband and Ms. Peel's older sister.  The tenement in which they lived was meager and sparse in furnishing, but lively with eccentric and deliciously strange neighbors, whom Ms. Peel describes in fascinating detail.  <br />Formative experiences from Ms. Peel's life include her consignment to an orphanage as a young girl to protect her from her father's tuberculosis; the abduction of her father by German officials and his presumed death at their hands; and the arrival of a girl whom her father hired ostensibly as a servant but in reality as a concubine and the ensuing clash of wills between her mother and father.  Even more influential to Ms. Peel's feelings of alienation were the constant reminders her mother rained down upon her that she was ugly, untruthful, strange, and unlovable.  Herein lies the crux of Ms. Peel's pilgrimage back to her old stomping grounds.  She has mixed emotions about her past and wonders whether coming to terms with her black sheep, ex-patriot status will bring her peace of mind or merely subsume her true identity.<br />Unless one is a celebrity, it takes a certain amount of hubris and ego to write an autobiography.  Ms. Peel is an artist of some repute in Canada, but this is not the interesting part of her tale and she modestly dwells on it not at all. Nor is the narration of the events of her first trip back to Tuscany, which she seems to have enjoyed minimally, the reason she wrote this book.  Rather, her justification for writing an autobiography is not only an interestingchildhood set in an evocative locale, but also her ability to tell a damned good story. This is not to detract, however, from Ms. Peel's considerable ability to paint with words a landscape.  But the emphasis is on the events of her childhood.  Those expecting simply a description of regional customs may be disappointed, but readers who value a well-told story are in for an enjoyable read.	2000-10-06
US	52952769	R2ZDQ6BATJAL6H	1583486232	688559795	Unlawful Deeds	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Well-plotted thriller that I couldn't put down.	Intricate plotting is a lost art that relies on the introduction of characters whose parallel spheres of action seemingly will never meet and  then intersect to drive the plot forward.  P.G. Wodehouse, author of many  light comedies involving the large-hearted and empty-headed Bertie Wooster  and his manservant Jeeves, was a master of introducing dozens of characters  whose predicaments began separately, inevitably intertwined, and ended in a  satisfying denouement that left the reader stunned by the clever way all  the loose ends tied together.  While Unlawful Deeds, by David S. Brody, is  a mystery/legal thriller written in a far different genre than Wodehouse's  complicated comedy of manners and takes as its spiritual predecessor John  Grisham, Brody's ability to create a universe in which all of his  characters' lives begin separately and eventually intersect in a  deliciously evil story of greed, murder, deception, and justice is  reminiscent of Wodehouse's plot-juggling abilities, a great compliment  indeed for a young writer.  <br />Bruce Arrujo is a new young lawyer and an  old criminal, whose former modus operandi was stealing art, but who now  aspires to real estate fraud when he lands a job with a prestigious Boston  law firm's real estate department.  The story begins with Bruce's fencing  of a Manet painting and includes references to the theft of paintings from  the Gardner Museum by Bruce's partner in crime.  Unfortunately, this is one  plot line that the author does not further pursue and its presence in the  story does not add much to an otherwise superlative and complicated plot.   Bruce picks his dupe early in the story, a young real estate broker named  Pierre Prefontaine, a more or less moral &quot;vulture&quot; whose nose for  a bargain foreclosure auction gains him a reputation and publicity, and  Bruce becomes his attorney.  Pierre acquires a condominium complex in which  dwells Charese, a transvestite who is suing her former lover, RobergeKrygier, for support and who occupies their former condo under the  protection of court order.  Charese's refusal to vacate and her involvement  in litigation makes it impossible for Pierre to evict her so that he can  sell the building quickly and make the profit he needs to support his wife  and baby.  Later, Pierre acquires a huge condominium complex being  auctioned off by a government that promises huge profits for Pierre and his  partner, Howie Plansky.  They turn to Bruce to help them consummate the  deal, and Bruce's deviltry becomes poetry in motion as he maneuvers a  guileless and ignorant Pierre into structuring the deal in an illegal  way.<br />After Charese is found murdered, Bruce tries to frame Pierre not  only as Charese's killer but calls to the police's attention the real  estate fraud that Bruce has arranged for the unwitting Pierre to commit.   The question is, was Bruce willing to commit murder in order to swindle  Pierre out of his property deal?  Or did Pierre actually commit the murder  to force a quicker sale of Charese's condo building in order to prevent  financial ruin, and was Bruce, knowing that much of the evidence pointed to  Pierre, merely being an opportunistic vulture attempting to gain Pierre's  property interests?  There are other suspects, including Reese Jeffries, an  unscrupulous public interest attorney who represented Charese in a lawsuit  against her former lover, Roberge, the son of a powerful real estate  developer whom Jeffries, a rent control advocate, hates and would like to  embarrass into bankruptcy.  Roberge and/or his father, Wesley, might have  killed Charese to avoid further public disclosure of the details of  Roberge's homosexual affair with a transvestite and the video tape that  Charese possessed showing Roberge having sex with young boys.  Or is there  another suspect out there, a nameless, faceless adversary who foils Bruce's  real estate swindles?<br />Unlawful Deeds is set in the period of the late  eighties and early nineties, a time of plunging real estate values and  threatening overall economic recession.  Brody does a thorough job of  recreating the uncertain and gloomy mood of the moment, and includes a  great deal of detail about the nuts and bolts of real estate transactions  (although some of the detail was a bit technical, sometimes unnecessary and  eventually excessive), knowledge which the reader can trust because Brody  is himself a real estate attorney.  Praiseworthy as well is Brody's use of  his knowledge of Boston to give the reader a genuine feeling of being on  the spot, particularly if one is familiar with the streets of Boston.   Although the solution to the mystery was a little predictable, it was  nevertheless an enormously fun read, and was exceedingly hard to put down.	2000-08-15
US	52952769	RLF59QBHDY1ZA	0440235812	489170740	A Criminal Appeal	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Let's hear it for big-boned women!	The cover of A Criminal Appeal, by D.R. Schanker, says &quot;The truth doesn't always set you free.  Sometimes it takes a damn good lawyer.&quot;  Actually, this story puts the lie to that statement, showing instead that  achieving justice sometimes has nothing to do with the law, but rather  comes down to simple faith, tenacity, and hard-headedness.  Also, being  big-boned seems to genetically predispose Schanker's protagonist, Nora  Lumsey, for the role of the crusader.  <br />Nora is a newly-minted lawyer  working as a clerk for an appeals court judge in Indiana who has before him  an appeal dealing with a robbery and shooting of an elderly white woman  allegedly committed by a 10-year-old, deaf Black boy named Dexter.  Nora is  assigned Dexter's appeal and the judge instructs her to write an opinion  affirming the conviction.  Under ordinary circumstances, Nora would feel  only an ordinary level of sympathy and pity for the boy whose life will be  wasted serving a 55-year sentence for murder.  But it turns out that  Dexter's grandfather, Carl, who submitted Dexter's appeal, lives two houses  away from Nora.  And, as Nora reminds us throughout the story, being  big-boned has endowed her with an inordinate amount of stubborn  righteousness, and she wants to try to help Dexter.<br />Curious about the  circumstances of the case, and heedless of the conflict inherent in a  judge's clerk independently investigating the case, not to mention the  blatant violation of judicial rules and ethics, Nora seeks out Carl's  acquaintance.  Almost instantly, she finds herself being drawn into the  case, being invited by Carl to attend church with him, to go to the reform  school to meet Dexter, and to meet Dexter's former teacher, named Owedia.   Owedia's persistent efforts to involve Nora in trying to free Dexter are  met with feeble resistance (Nora tells her she can't get too involved  because &quot;I work for the State.&quot;) and eventually Nora finds  herself enmeshed in the search for the truth of who committed the murder.   She fails to convince the judge to overturn the conviction, and despite the  danger to her career, she continues to pursue the case, following up leads  that take her into seedy neighborhoods and into a world of gang violence  she has never experienced firsthand.  When the situation turns dangerous,  possibly deadly, Nora's big-boned bravado and Owedia's deeply religious  faith carry them through.<br />The major themes in the story are the nature of  racial prejudice, the fallibility of the judicial system, and the  importance of community and individuals helping others.  In the face of  corrupt and ambitious politicians, a porous judicial system that allows  innocent people to slip through the cracks, and a religious establishment  incestuously involved with political machines, it is the individuals  willing to put their faith and convictions on the line -- those who will  not walk away or hide behind pragmatism -- who set the best example in this  story and who accomplished true justice.  The story is engaging and  uplifting even when the plot takes depressing turns.  As a lawyer, Schenker  understands his subject matter very well and is able to translate the legal  jargon effectively for the lay person.  Schenker writes an engaging story  which was rewarded with a nomination in 1999 for the prestigious Edgar  Award.	2000-06-30
US	52952769	R1JUEO98MHH83J	1571741496	340987189	The Authenticator	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Interesting and educational as well as exciting	The Authenticator, by William M. Valtos, crosses genres from mystery to romance to fantasy in a tale that delves into the possibility of near death experience (NDE).  The Authenticator, the eponymous protagonist, is  Theophanes Nikonos, a psychologist with a Ph.D. who is down on his luck and  working for short money as a researcher for a Professor interested in  NDE's.  Theo is investigating a claim of an NDE by a car crash victim,  Laura Duquesne, who returned to life after having been declared legally  dead for one hour and twenty minutes.  What starts out as a routine  interview by the skeptical Theo turns into a dangerous, life-threatening  pursuit of the truth behind the mysterious circumstances of the death of  Laura's husband, Harrison, whom she claims didn't perish in the car  accident, knowledge she gained in her visit to the &quot;other side&quot;  during her NDE.<br />Laura is convinced her husband is still alive, despite  the existence of a corpse matching his medical description and an iron-clad  coroner's confirmation, because when she &quot;died&quot; and experienced  her NDE, she didn't see her husband amongst all her other dead relatives  who greeted her.  When Theo meets Laura, she is being held against her will  in a rehabilitation clinic and she begs him to help her escape.  Theo,  convinced of the authenticity of her NDE and having begun to fall in love  with her, rescues her from the clutches of her captors, and agrees to help  her find her husband, whom she passionately loves and believes is still  alive.<br />The mystery deepens when people connected to the case begin  turning up dead (one is murdered in Theo's apartment), and when Laura's  captors pursue her.  On the run with Laura, Theo learns more about the  circumstances of the accident and about her husband's character, and  becomes suspicious that he may be alive after all.  He also wonders about  the possible role Laura's NDE played in her captivity.  With their own  lives now in danger, Theo and Laura retrace the events of the fateful day  of the car crash to try to unravel the mystery before they are both killed  or Theo is arrested for murder.<br />The Authenticator is an enjoyable and  intriguing story, well-plotted and gripping.  The book includes plenty of  interesting information about NDE's as well as other psychological  conditions, but towards the end its tone is excessively didactic.  Another  weakness, one that does not really harm the overall story but that is  disappointing and annoying, is that Laura is portrayed as thoroughly  gullible and naive, an empty vessel waiting for some man to fill her up.  I  prefer stronger female characters.  The final chapters are a little  heavy-handed and repetitive of information previously mentioned at the  beginning of the book in the description of one of the characters' NDE.   Finally, the plot suffers somewhat from predictability, but still provides  pleasure as the reader awaits the inevitable twists and turns.  Overall,  the book was a substantive, satisfying read, and I would recommend it.	2000-05-31
US	52952769	RO0HCYYGK80CK	0312264844	166096163	Butterscotch Blues	Books	4	15	16	N	N	This poignant story rings true	Butterscotch Blues, by Margaret Johnson-Hodge, treats the reader to a realistic, complex story about love, female friendship, AIDS, and death. A group of four friends, Sandy, Janice, Britney, and Martha, search for  romantic love and self-truth, wondering and learning whether the two are  mutually exclusive. Through all their tribulations and triumphs, the  constant factor that sustains them is their love and support of each other.  <br />The story begins with Sandy, the main character, breaking up with a  neglectful, detached boyfriend and meeting Adrian, a caring, thoughtful,  and emotionally-available man. She is drawn to Adrian in part because of  his light-skinned, African American beauty, a contrast to her own mahogany  hue, and is surprised to find that he is actually more interested in and  knowledgeable about his African heritage than she is. Sandy finds more  respect and happiness in her relationship with Adrian than she has ever  had, and much of what she learns she passes on to her other three friends.  The other women experience various common facets of dating, including:  meeting the man of one's dreams (Britney, who dates Maurice, a kind and  generous suitor); having to reassess artificially high standards (Martha,  who won't date anyone who's not a white-collar worker); and learning not to  lower one's standards too much because of low self-esteem (Janice, who gets  involved with a man who uses her and cruelly dumps her). <br />A crisis ensues  between Adrian and Sandy when Sandy learns that Adrian has a wife,  Gennifer, and that he and Gennifer are both HIV positive, the result of  Gennifer's infidelity. After much soul searching, Sandy overcomes her fear  of infection and losing Adrian to the deadly disease and decides that their  love is strong enough to sustain them. Later events shake that resolve and  cause Sandy and her friends to readjust their views about what true love  means and to alter their decisions about the commitments they make.  <br />Butterscotch Blues is a moving, realistic depiction of friendship  between women and the decisions women make in regard to their romantic  relationships. The dialogue, situations, and characters ring true. An  interesting theme throughout the story is the interracial bigotry that  occurs between Blacks based on the lightness of their skin, and is  illustrated by Sandy's feelings about the messages her family has sent her  regarding her dark-skinned appearance. The author's poignant treatment of  AIDS as a potentially fatal disease highlights the fact that there is no  cure and that despite improved treatment AIDS is still a serious pandemic.  The best part of the book is that not only do the characters learn valuable  lessons, but the reader does as well.	2000-05-31
US	52952769	R22Q8OI4LN8TNA	0609605275	641967343	The Comfort Queen's Guide to Life: Create All That You Need with Just What You've Got	Books	5	20	20	N	N	A fun way to learn how to take care of our spiritual selves	The Comfort Queen's Guide to Life is a compassionate and fun book that helps you discover you what aspects of your life need nurturing, and then takes you through the steps to accomplish the basic goal of being true to  yourself.  The approach isn't self-centered like many self-help type books  -- it doesn't recommend that you live in a hermitage and ditch all your  commitments and responsibilities.  Instead, it helps you hone your list of  wants, needs, dreams and goals and then gives you some options about how to  attain them.  There are several chapters devoted to &quot;Living the  Questions,&quot; exercises that ask simple questions that you can use over  and over to guage your moods, focus your energy, help you relax, and be  present in your feelings. Other chapters contain exercises asking you to  fantasize about the outermost limits of your destiny and then making  suggestions about how to get there.  The &quot;Comfort Queen&quot; serves  as the author's alter ego, helping her and the reader through the process  of self-discovery.  The point of the book is that every woman (the book is  really directed at women) has her own Comfort Queen, an inner voice to whom  she can turn for the answers.  Or, the reader can borrow Jennifer Louden's  Comfort Queen, and I for one am grateful for her generosity in sharing her.	2000-05-16
US	52952769	RZYBN3F4TCSD6	0385497466	376574359	The Brethren	Books	2	4	6	N	N	Sub-par for Grisham, not riveting or thrilling	The Brethren, by John Grisham, is a tale of corruption, politics and the purchase of public office, and Machiavellian, single-minded evil.  These themes are fertile grounds for suspense and mystery and would seem  infallible subjects for successful storytelling.  Unfortunately, John  Grisham was unable to reap the potential from his novel's original  promising scenario.  The story is about the accidental nexus between three  inmates and a presidential candidate.  <br />Three former judges, who call  themselves The Brethren, are serving time in a federal prison.  In addition  to presiding over their own kangaroo court to adjudicate fellow inmates'  grievances, they spend their time conniving at a scheme to blackmail  unsuspecting homosexual pen pals who correspond with them.  Once they get  sufficiently damning letters written by the risk-taking and hopefully  wealthy men, the judges, posing as young gay men confined to drug  rehabilitation clinics looking for friendship, demand hush money from their  correspondents. <br />The other main story line is about Congressman Aaron  Lake, an insignificant member of the U.S. House of Representatives from the  state of Arizona.  He is chosen by the head of the C.I.A., Teddy Maynard,  to run for President as a single-issue, pro-defense candidate.  Lake's  candidacy will be bought and paid for by the C.I.A. and the nation's  defense contractors, in exchange for which he will double the Pentagon's  budget.  Lake passively agrees to the scheme.  To assure Lake's success in  the primaries, Maynard ignores intelligence he has received in advance  about pending terrorist attacks and allows them to take place in order to  focus the electorate's attention on the need for increased defense  spending.<br />It is not until Chapter 15, more than a third of the way  through the book, that it is finally revealed how these two story lines  will intersect.  The Brethren's gay pen pal scam has inadvertently snared  Aaron Lake, who responded toone of their ads in a gay magazine prior to  his decision to run for President.  The rest of the story focuses on the  C.I.A.'s unraveling of the mystery of the identity of Lake's correspondent,  and then averting the public relations crisis presented by the threat of  exposure.  Much of the action details the C.I.A.'s surveillance of the  Brethren and their lawyer, and of Lake himself.  As in all of John  Grisham's books, there is a great deal of tedious discussion about the ins  and outs of hiding and transferring huge sums of money, as well as how  fugitives disappear while living lives of luxury.<br />The story is  unsatisfying for three reasons.  First, Grisham takes too long to make the  connection between the Brethren and Lake, during which time he bores the  reader with facile and oversimplified descriptions of political  campaigning, fundraising, and other such incidentals that add nothing to  the suspense of the plot.  Secondly, Grisham leaves some plot lines  dangling, (such as when one of the Brethren's other victims succeeds in  tracking them down and then abruptly leaves town), and introduces other  plot lines that are superfluous (such as the arrival and escape of a young  inmate named Buster whom the Brethren aid in his flight).  Finally, Grisham  does not make the most of the tension that could have been created once the  Brethren finally realized that one of their pen pals was a presidential  candidate, choosing instead to avert the crisis quickly through C.I.A.  intervention.  Overall, this is not one of Grisham's best.  If you're  expecting one of his typical page-turners, you'll be disappointed.  He  seems to have taken a fork in the road leading to authorial sloppiness and  lassitude that will be a disappointment for fans of his previous work.	2000-05-08
US	52952769	R1SF1EW0V7P53U	0375403426	761372032	Phoenix: A Brother's Life	Books	4	5	6	N	N	An evocative family memoir	Phoenix: A Brother's Life, by J.D. Dolan, is an autobiographical account of the author's relationship with his family, primarily with his older brother who died of severe burns suffered during a devastating workplace  explosion. The book spans the abbreviated life of John Dolan, the author  J.D. &quot;Jay&quot; Dolan's older brother, and muses primarily on their  relationship in a series of flashbacks and reflections that take place  during Jay's death vigil over his mortally-wounded brother. <br />The  narrative sets forth the dynamics of the Dolan family, consisting of the  parents, the sons John and Jay, and their three sisters, whose characters  are slightly less fleshed out and who are more like satellites orbiting the  more assertive brothers. The family persona is summarized quickly: the  mother is a typical, nondescript housewife; the father looms as a sullen,  bitter disciplinarian who passes on to his children the habit of holding  longstanding, silent grudges; the oldest sister is defiantly independent  while the other two sisters stay closer to home and exchange sibling  rivalries; the older brother John is a stoic automotive enthusiast who gets  drafted for duty in Vietnam; and Jay is the youngest child born after his  parents were in their forties, the forgotten child observing the family  drama and being raised more by his siblings than his parents. <br />The story  focuses on Jay's hero worship of John and contains many a male bonding  vignette, including forays into the woods where John teaches Jay to target  shoot, as well as their shared love of cars and motorcycles and the  ceremonial passing of the torch (in the form of a Marine Corps sweatshirt)  when John is drafted and goes off to war in Vietnam (he actually gets sent  to Japan). Despite their adolescent closeness, in later years John severs  all communication with Jay for reasons we never really discover, which  incidentally is one of the only unsatisfying aspects of the story. The  brothersand the rest of the family are reunited by tragedy, when John is  injured in a steam heat explosion at the Southern California Edison's  Mohave Generating Station in which sixteen people were injured, six of whom  died. <br />John's abrupt decision to terminate his relationship with Jay  mirrors their father's habit of doing likewise. Their father enforces the  petty grudges he holds by refusing to speak to people who draw his ire,  including his oldest daughter because she bought an impractical, flash car  (a Thunderbird) and later stayed out past curfew on a single occasion, and  also his own brother for undisclosed reasons that lasted until the brother  was on his deathbed. The repetition by John of this corrosive,  emotionally-constipated withholding of communication and love from Jay is  what makes this story so poignant, as Jay struggles to reconcile the  unresolved feud while bidding a final farewell to his brother. <br />Although  it is nonfiction, the story reads like a novel, weaving past and present  narratives adeptly. The writing is thoroughly masculine and spare, in the  style of Hemingway, without being obviously imitative or jarring. Overall,  the story is engaging albeit a little depressing because it does not  deliver the catharsis the reader -- and no doubt Jay -- hopes for. No clear  answers or endings are delivered, but then perhaps that is what separates  fact from fiction, and J.D. Dolan succeeds in conveying a message about the  importance of family bonds and the unconditional love that underlie them.	2000-05-04
US	52952769	R3VP128XXYH5DW	0375703810	759690595	The Amateur: An Independent Life of Letters	Books	2	15	25	N	N	A disappointing, unengaging autobiography	The Amateur: An Independent Life of Letters by Wendy Lesser is a semi-autobiographical book of short essays.  The chapters are in a loosely chronological order, only some pertaining directly to the author's life and  career path; the others are simply essays on topics that interest the  author.  The confusing format of the book -- part memoir and part essay  collection -- is a macrocosm for what is wrong with not only the book as a  whole but the writing in particular.  The book follows no plan or path, and  arrives at no ultimate destination, fitting neither genre snugly.   Moreover, the essays themselves are unfulfilling, leaving out much detail  and ending or changing direction abruptly, neither satisfying as a group  nor as individual pieces.<br />The cardinal rule for writing an autobiography  is that the author should have led an interesting life that the reader will  want to learn and read about.  This is the first major problem with Wendy  Lesser's book.  She has written about her life and no doubt her close  friends and relatives will enjoy reading about it, but I did not.  She is a  native Californian daughter of divorced parents who was educated in the  lofty surroundings of Radcliffe College and in the company of some  illustrious classmates (most notably Benazir Bhutto, the future president  of Pakistan, whom she then affectionately called &quot;Pinkie&quot;).   After college she spent time as a consultant to various liberal and  governmental organizations advising them on the more esoteric aspects of  social justice policy.  She finally found her calling as a writer and  editor, and has published several books, in addition to founding and  editing The Threepenny Review, a literary journal.  I'm not sure why, but I  found myself saying repeatedly to myself, as I read this woman's memoirs,  &quot;Who cares?&quot;  It may be that Lesser focused too much on the  details of her life that would have been more appropriate in a journal,  while ignoring the more interesting bits.  I would have liked to have read  more about the genesis and life of her publication, The Threepenny Review,  rather than about her childhood, her hobbies, her self-admittedly  insignificant consulting career, and her opinions about culture.   <br />Lesser's writing on any one subject, whether it interested me or not,  lacked cohesion and sometimes even a point.  Her sentences were often  abrupt and choppy, and lacked explanation.  For instance, in describing her  college days at Radcliffe, she whets the reader's appetite with her mention  of &quot;Pinkie&quot; Bhutto, initially describing her as &quot;innocently  giggly and high-spirited,&quot; and later &quot;brassily ditzy,  bubble-brained,&quot; but then says &quot;long after I had ceased to see  her, she all at once dropped the mask and became a serious, wily  politician, her father's rightful heir.  The change seemed sudden; yet if  you had asked me, even as a freshman, to guess who among my acquaintance  would eventually become a world-famous political figure, I would not have  hesitated to answer, 'Pinkie Bhutto.'&quot;  And there she ends her  narrative, leaving me asking, &quot;Why did you think that?&quot;  That is  a question I found myself asking repeatedly throughout her book.<br />Another  failing of Lesser's writing is that it seems not to have been edited all  that well -- a supreme irony since Lesser's main claim to fame is that she  is an editor -- and many times I was left to wonder why she included  certain sentences or whole passages, since they made no sense to me.  I  found myself writing &quot;What? and Huh?&quot; in the margins a lot, when  for instance she described a boyfriend's studio thusly:  &quot;The smell of  the place was close and oppressive, as if several pairs of sexually active  old shoes and socks had been closeted together for weeks.&quot;  What does  this mean?  Another egregious error in editing comes as she inadvertently  draws a metaphor for her own inept writing, when she writes:  &quot;For a  year or two I had been writing monthly book reviews for a local organ  called the San Francisco Review of Books, which ranged in quality from the  somewhat interesting to the truly atrocious (ranged within each issue, I  mean).  She probably meant that the books ranged from somewhat interesting  to truly atrocious, but her misuse of syntax makes this sentence mean that  her reviews ranged in quality.  Unforgivable for a self-styled wordsmith to  write this way, and even less forgivable for a self-proclaimed editor not  to have caught the mistake.  Moreover, the author seems not to grasp the  basic Strunk and White rule about when to use &quot;I&quot; or  &quot;me,&quot; which she bungles on the very first page of her book and  again in the second chapter.<br />Finally, Lesser has a truly annoying habit  of assuming information in referring to certain literary or artistic works  in a shorthand way that makes the reader seem ignorant if their  significance does not leap to mind.  She also is a name-dropper, a  pretension that is unnecessarily belittling to the reader.  I do not  recommend reading The Amateur, precisely because its title holds the key to  why it was so poorly written.	2000-05-04
US	52952769	R3N0VGH5O94S8R	0060192119	316982155	As Nature Made Him: The Boy Who Was Raised as A Girl	Books	4	28	32	N	N	A gripping, compelling, emotional story	I read this book in its entirety in one night, something I have rarely done before.  I felt compelled to turn the next page, to find out the outer boundaries of the horror that Brenda/David suffered -- just how much worse  could it get?  Before one finds out, though, one must work through the  first third of the book, which consists of a discussion of the psychology  and science behind the decision to reassign gender.  This part of the book  was fascinating, but I found that its length and depth was not entirely  necessary for an understanding of David's situation, and was anxious to get  to the rest of the story.  The author did make a successful effort to  present the science and controversy over Brenda/David's doctor's (Dr.  Money) widely-accepted and also less conventional views in an objective  manner, and I appreciate this.<br />The second part of the book focuses on  the specifics of Brenda's condition and her life until her decision to  revert to her original gender and become David.  This is the most gripping  part of the book.  The author's sensitive treatment of the travails that  Brenda suffered made me feel as if I was traveling along with her on her  collision course with her true gender identity.  The author avoids  sentimentality, but treats the subject sensitively.  He does not rail  unduly against the doctors who changed the course of Brenda's life, but  instead acts as a detached narrator laying before the reader the facts.<br />The third part of the book is a look at the issue of the transformation  and reassignment of intersexed children in general, and a view of the  advocacy now being taken up on their behalf.  Mostly silenced by shame and  fear, former intersexed children have begun to join forces and argue for a  change in the medical protocols established primarily by Brenda/David's  doctors at Johns Hopkins, especially Dr. Money, and widely adopted by the  medical establishment, which call for surgical sexual reassignment of  intersexed children.  This part of the book gives the author the forum to  voice what is probably his own view towards these practices, without unduly  intruding as an outsider and journalist.  Instead, he prefers to speak  through the voices of the victims of such practices and implies his  skepticism gently and unobtrusively.<br />It is obvious that the author did a  thorough and excellent job in reasearching his topic.  He does not hammer  the reader with sermons or preaching, but rather relies on as much  fact-based logic and the irrefutable emotional damage that David suffered  at the hands of his tormenters.  I respect this author's work, and above  all appreciate the strength and character of David.  I highly recommend  this book.xed children.  This part of the book gives the author the forum to  voice what is probably his own view towards these practices, without unduly  intruding as an outsider and journalist.  Instead, he prefers to speak  through the voices of the victims of such practices and implies his  skepticism gently and unobtrusively.<br />It is obvious that the author did a  thorough and excellent job in reasearching his topic.  He does not hammer  the reader with sermons or preaching, but rather relies on as much  fact-based logic and the irrefutable emotional damage that David suffered  at the hands of his tormenters.  I respect this author's work, and above  all appreciate the strength and character of David.  I highly recommend  this book.	2000-02-29
US	52952769	R1V504EZGLVQAE	1579590241	288576157	Living With Books	Books	1	88	99	N	N	I disliked this book so much I returned it!	As a lover and avid collector of books, I had high hopes for this book -- at first glance it seemed entrancing, especially the topic.  Unfortunately, once I started reading it more carefully, my spirits sank.  Some of the  pictures are visually interesting, but most are not.  Even more  disappointing, there is not much substantive information either.  If you  like the idea of this book and are looking for a more satisfying read,  check out At Home With Books : How Booklovers Live With and Care for Their  Libraries by Estelle Ellis(Editor), et al.  That book is worth every penny,  and you'll enjoy it.	2000-02-21
US	52952769	R2WLX1R8B43AMW	0394532643	319448537	The Way to Cook	Books	5	46	48	N	N	I will use this book for life	I have had this book for several years, and it's dawning on me how important a work this was, because I use it every time I make certain dishes.  For example, I always use it to make rice (who can remember  whether it's 2 cups of water or 1 1/2?) and also for hard boiled eggs.   These are the types of things that other cookbook writers take it for  granted that you know, but which are crucial to the success of the recipe  and which Julia Child considers important enough to devote several pages  to.  I find this book to be an essential tool in my kitchen.<br />I admire her  ability to explain, in common sense terms, how to achieve basic cooking  recipes (she calls them &quot;Master recipes&quot;), and how to incorporate  them into more complicated recipes.  This makes the book useful for  beginners as well as more experienced cooks.<br />She especially handles the  subject of cooking with meat and poultry well, offering a wide range of  dishes with an international, yet traditional flair.  Many of the recipes  are reminiscent of her televsion show, &quot;Julia Child and Company.&quot;   They have a sort of 60's trendiness to them, which makes them fun and  evocative of food one's Mom used to make, while at the same time not being  out of date.  You just sort of expect that there will be a fondue recipe or  two, plus a few &quot;chafing dish&quot; preparations!<br />The pictures are  very helpful, as are the instructions that are drafted in laypersons'  terms.  Her recipes are basic standbys, nothing particularly fancy, but  everyone needs at least one of those types of cookbooks in their kitchen.   A tour de force for Julia Child, who seems to get better with each  succeeding effort.	2000-02-21
US	52952769	R1N9FVKTUHJ3H7	0140238573	167326204	America's Painted Ladies: The Ultimate Celebration of Our Victorians	Books	5	28	28	N	N	An extravaganza of color and Victorian charm!	Each picture is more gorgeous than the next!  On a more serious note, there is practical information on architecture and authentic Victorian painting techniques.  I learned a lot about how to identify the type of  building style, and got my fix for Painted Ladies more than satisfied.   This is a comprehensive, informative, beautiful book, and I recommend it  highly.	2000-02-21
US	52952769	R3AP38DUM05FW8	0517595001	860072810	At Home with Books: How Booklovers Live with and Care for Their Libraries	Books	5	10	11	N	N	Bibliophiles Rejoice!	We who love books are lucky to have access to this book.  It is a gorgeous pictorial and is informative as well.  The various libraries and book collections are diverse. The book even inludes photos of some art  incorporating books and displayed in libraries.  I enjoyed reading about  the origin of the collections and the profiles of the people who ammassed  them.  Worth the money, you'll look at this book more than once.	2000-02-21
US	52952769	R2BY527RTIL6Q6	0767900383	632913221	Under the Tuscan Sun: At Home in Italy	Books	2	14	26	N	N	I'm going to cut out the recipes and throw away the book	I don't want to repeat much of what has already been said by previous reviewers, (most of the negative stuff I agree with) so I'll focus on the part of the book I thought was meritorious.  I gave this book two stars to  credit the author with having provided some terrific recipes as well as  describing in an enticing fashion the meals she cooked and ate, and the  food of the region.  Frankly, I think her writing efforts are misplaced --  she should focus on the food aspects of the region and write a cookbook --  I would buy it!  Unfortunately, Ms. Mayes is not an engaging author in her  attempts to describe the people, scenery and traditions of Tuscany.  I will  not make a moral judgment or speculate that the reason she has failed to  connect to her surroundings is because she lacks certain personal  characteristics.  Rather, I prefer to think that she excells at what  interests her most, which is cooking and food.  So I hope she will  concentrate her next book on food and leave the description of the flora,  fauna, and folks of Tuscany to other talented authors who find such a topic  truly interesting.	2000-02-21
US	52952769	R3QTHOE5BGRI72	0517707829	92064243	Bringing It Home: England: The Ultimate Guide to Creating the Feeling of England in Your Home	Books	5	30	31	N	N	A nice variety of information about the English style	I like this book because it addresses a diverse range of topics on how to achieve the English style.  It describes the origin of each decorating tradition, offering an explanation or rationale for why something is  characterized as &quot;English,&quot; rather than just laying out a  blueprint to follow.  I also liked that cooking was incorporated into the  book, and several appealing photos of food and recipes are provided.	2000-02-21
US	52952769	RXH9UWF9B1O4F	0062514660	226894827	The Woman's Retreat Book : A Guide to Restoring, Rediscovering, and Reawakening Your True Self in a Moment, an Hour, a Day, or a Weekend (Comfort Book)	Books	4	29	31	N	N	A thorough guide to retreat	I appreciate the thoroughness of this book, as well as its outline structure.  Each chapter addresses various aspects of the retreat, breaking down the how, where, why, what, etc. in an understandable and useful way.  Even more importantly, each chapter stands on its own, and you can skip  around, looking for specific answers, or read the whole way through, while  still gleaning the essence of the book.  I am reading the book all the way  thru, in order, yet have already been able to do a retreat that was useful  even though I haven't gotten to the end.  This aids the process of  retreating, since it takes the pressure off the retreatant, and doesn't  create added pressure that would dissuade one to retreat in the first  place.  An undaunting, very informative book.	2000-02-07
US	52952769	R1YOKPN025QGD3	0395869463	540961512	The Bookshop	Books	1	7	19	N	N	I was disappointed and surprised at how much I hated it	My expectations were based on the rave reviews this author has received in the past, as well as the enticing setting of a bookstore in England, two attractions for me.  Unfortunately, the book is bleak, unattractive,  spiteful, hateful, depressing, and disappointing.  It left me with a very  low opinion of humanity, including both the lead character's antagonists,  as well as the lead character herself.  Why doesn't she fight back?  A  truly depressing, unsatisfying read.	2000-02-07
US	52952769	ROGQ5U8LSBD7R	006019412X	354610676	Fall Notebook	Books	4	7	8	N	N	Beautiful, extravagant photography	I love Fall -- it's my favorite season, so I wanted to love this book.  I wasn't disappointed!  The photos are sumptuous and gorgeous; the recipes are yummy and inspire thoughts of running straight to the kitchen; and the  information about the flowers was truly informative.  If you love Fall,  you'll love this book.	2000-02-07
US	52952769	R1WZVDKHYV30XK	0609604236	905797864	The Two Fat Ladies Full Throttle	Books	5	18	19	N	N	Inspirational recipes	When my beloved and I want to cook something special -- one of our favorite hobbies -- we check out the Two Fat Ladies' cookbooks.  (I recommend their previous two books, too).  I love the stories and  explanations that preceed the recipes -- they add depth and luster.  I  can't read the book for very long without feeling hungry.  Their recipes  are forgiving, leaving plenty of room for adaptation if you can't find an  ingredient indiginous to England.  Don't miss watching their series on the  Food Network.	2000-02-07
US	52952769	R324HFXIUT52NE	0553283960	328482257	How to Get Out of Debt, Stay Out of Debt, and Live Prosperously: Based on the Proven Principles and Techniques of Debtors Anonymous	Books	5	11	11	N	N	This book turned my finances around	I really got a tremendous amount of insight from this book.  It prompted me to make changes in the way I deal with money and debt that I think will last me for my lifetime.  The book is based on a totally no-nonsense approach, and is filled with answers and reasons to combat the rationalizations we used that got us into debt.  The book explains how one gets into debt and how to get out of it, without masking or sugar coating the effort involved.  It is filled with charts, practical examples, and annecdotes one can apply to one's own situation.  Don't be put off by the 12-step overtones -- it's subtle and totally disposable without robbing the book of its usefulness.  A life-altering read.  I highly recommend it.  END	2000-02-07
US	52952769	RF0LWMB49XWZ9	076240390X	71379787	The Victorian Home: The Grandeur and Comforts of the Victorian Era, in Households Past and Present	Books	5	59	60	N	N	This book is so great it gives me goosebumps	I bought this book about a year ago and I still refer back to it often.  The photos are so gorgeous, they give me goosebumps.  They transport me into a place I'd like to live, a fantasy of design and genteel composure.   The text is informative and the quality of photos is top notch.  I highly  recommend this book to folks who like Victorian design, both contemporary  and traditional.  You will feel the money was well spent!	2000-02-07
US	52952769	R3OD47NUHNV097	068486343X	288168259	Daniel Boulud's Cafe Boulud Cookbook	Books	4	49	53	N	N	A delicious book	I am really enjoying reading this book.  The informative passages preceeding each recipe give some insight into the origin of the recipe and alternative ways to prepare and serve.  I usually put post-it notes on each  page that holds a recipe I want to prepare, but this book is just packed  with goodies so I won't bother with the post-its.  I particularly liked the  traditional French recipes.  Also, I feel that the methods used are  relatively simple and easy for the average cook to execute, which is a  tribute not only to the quality of Boulud's ability as a chef but also as  an author.  A lot of chefs' cookbooks get knocked (and mostly justifiably  so) for being too complicated or esoteric for the layperson to relate to  and use, but this chef's cookbook is the delicious exception to the rule.   I thoroughly recommend this book.	2000-01-21
US	52952769	R189A3UX9PVXPR	0811825647	308842743	Saveur Cooks Authentic French: Rediscovering the Recipes, Traditions, and Flavors of the World's Greatest Cuisine	Books	5	26	27	N	N	A feast for many senses	I love this book on many levels.  The pictures are gorgeous to look at; the recipes make me weak with hunger; the pages are printed on thick paper that feels sumptuous for the relatively low price of the book; and the  overall effect of the book is to transport me to a fantasy French life I'm  living in my imagination.  I appreciated the emphasis on traditional French  recipes, as well as the abundant information about the origin of these  recipes and the customs of traditional French life.  Saveur, as a magazine,  is always encyclopedic in its scope, and I was glad to see that this method  was applied to the cookbook.  Also, I was happy to find that not everything  in the cookbook was just a rehash from the magazine -- there was some  genuinely new information in the book.  I got a really thorough  understanding of the way certain regions of France approach the preparation  of food, and was able to compare and contrast them based on their use of  different ingredients and cooking methods.  I hope this book gets the  praise that Saveur Cooks Authentic American received.	2000-01-21
US	52952769	R1OHE75F1XB7SA	0312970404	556758831	My Body Lies Over the Ocean (Sarah Deane Mysteries)	Books	2	3	4	N	N	A good idea, poorly executed	The setting for this book, a luxury cruise ship, offers an excellent setting for this mystery.  The author's descriptions of the ship evoke romantic images and make for enjoyable reading.  Unfortunately, this is the  only aspect of the book I enjoyed.  The plot is thin, the rationale for the  crimes is simplistic and trite, and the denoument is melodramatic and  unrealistic.  I wanted to like this book, but I'm afraid it's a case where  the blurb on the back raised my expectations which the words between the  covers could not fulfill.  In the end it was formulaic, two-dimensional,  didactic, and not very engaging.  I hope to find another book with a  similar setting that offers better substance.	2000-01-13
US	52952769	R1EKI2AUJ0XKST	1579651267	635645220	The French Laundry Cookbook (The Thomas Keller Library)	Books	1	219	324	N	N	A very disappointing book	I bought into the hype preceeding the release of this book, and was chomping on the bit to buy it as soon as it became available, but once I started reading the book, I realized it didn't meet my expectations.  The  recipes in the book are for dishes that I find unappetizing, and the  emphasis of the recipes seems to be on the esoteric quality, scarceness,  and uniqueness of the ingredients and the process by which they are  manipulated, rather than on producing a dish that one would actually want  to eat.  I am interested in learning about cooking at a higher level of  complexity, which is why I bought the book, but I felt that the food was  tortured and teased into offerings that bear no relationship to or  consideration of the diner's pleasure.  Reading through the book, it felt  like an homage to the chef, a way for him to toot his horn, rather than to  offer a window into the world of fine dining.  I found the book  pretentious, disappointing, and obtuse.  Sorry I bought it and sorry I  didn't like it.	2000-01-04
US	52952769	R20H8JXHHTC8S6	0684813726	82788515	Death of Outrage: Bill Clinton and the Assault on American Ideals	Books	4	6	8	N	N	An argument that needed to be made, but was made prematurely	Bill Bennett's book set forth in a logical and forthwright manner  arguments that need to be made by somebody in this country.  I cringe when  I hear people saying it doesn't matter, it's all about sex, etc.  Mr.  Bennett effectively analyzes and counters each ridiculous argument that  Clinton's supporters have offered in the last several months, a period in  our history that represents a shameful abandonment of moral principle.  As  a lifelong liberal Democrat, it depresses me that the only people speaking  the truth on this issue are arch conservatives such as Mr. Bennett, because  people might discount what he has to say based on his reputation as a  rightwinger.  He has some good things to say, that needed to be said.  My  only criticism is that he rushed the book to print without waiting to hear  the president speak, and so one gets the feeling that one knows more than  the author on this subject, which leaves me craving the sequel.	1998-09-02
US	52952769	R2XH4HR5JYQV02	0312156774	659073887	The Tribes of Palos Verdes	Books	4	6	9	N	N	A review from one of the tribe. - Lissy Friedman	The author, Joy Nicholson, with whom I believe I attended school in Palos Verdes, has captured a hauntingly accurate, poignant,depressingly realistic, and revealing picture of a community that most people consider to be Paradise.  Having grown up in Palos Verdes and suffered indignities similar to those of Medina, the main character, I felt compassion not only for her, but for my adolescent self which I no longer resemble but can still access given the appropriate cues.  This book tapped deep into my psyche, as it probably would for anyone who has suffered teenage angst in any closed, bigoted community, whether affluent or not.  I have long acknowledged that there are some ghosts that I will never be able to chase away, and Ms. Nicholson's book effectively resurected them as I read each short narrative vignette (a slightly annoying, yet effective way of depicting the action).  I give her credit for writing this story, as I feel sure that she must have had to exorcise certain demons of her own in the process of creating the characters and faithfully recording their thoughts and feelings on paper.  I am grateful for her book because it reminded me from whence I came (and still am trying to recover).  I will never again live in Palos Verdes, having made a new life for myself on the East Coast in a city where what you know or can accomplish is far more important than what you own or what you look like, but inside I will always carry the memories. Even though leaving Palos Verdes has not killed me (as Medina believed) -- indeed I am thriving in a way I never could have had I stayed -- I will be forever forced to acknowledge that in a way I can never totally free myself from Palos Verdes -- I too am one of the tribe.	1997-11-10
