US	52960010	R3F53LM3P9WVBN	158314482X	681025874	After The Storm	Books	4	2	3	N	N	I Get By With A Little Help from My Friends	After the Storm by Cassandra Darden Bell is truly a story about finding oneself and coming into your own.  On the surface, thirty-three year old Jessi Andrews has captured the American Dream: the husband, twin boys, the house, a satisfying career and special girlfriends.  One day, just as a storm is brewing in Florida, Jessi arrives at her husband's used car lot and discovers his infidelity.  This act catapults her to take stock in her life and begin a search of self-discovery.<br /><br />With help of her best friends Karen and Regina, coupled with her love of shoes, Jessi begins her journey by taking care of her marriage, going on an Alaskan vacation and becoming an entrepreneur.  In addition to her issues, her mother is a thorn in her side and she soon discovers that she must contend with her problems on her own and stop seeking her mother's approval.  This discovery brings with it information from her mother that is heaven sent.<br /><br />One problem I have is the lack of storyline as it pertains to the children and their emotions from their parents divorce; it is non-existent.  However, the author paints a vivid portrait of Florida and its inhabitants during the stormy season.  She utilizes witty dialogue between the characters that make for some laugh out loud moments and some shocking discoveries.  Finally, in the form of secondary storylines, she highlights issues that two friends must contend with which demonstrate her ability to intermingle tales but never overshadow the main story being told.  After the Storm is an inspiring and uplifting chronicle of life during and after the storm.<br /><br />Reviewed by Dawn R. Reeves<br /><br />APOOO BookClub	2005-08-12
US	52960010	R3SMYCB8T0JLFX	1583145249	215466917	Playing With Destiny	Books	5	4	4	N	N	My Brother's Keeper	Two brothers, approximately six years apart, seemingly different, but inevitably alike, plow into the other's lives with dire consequences in Phillip Duck's Playing With Destiny.  In an effort to make the most of their lives, Colin and Courtney Sheffield, forge ahead with the future, having misguided thoughts about each other.  A mistake in judgment and a lie from a female antagonist, sets the stage for the large range of emotions that pour from this story.<br /><br />After the death of their father, Colin took it upon himself, with some coaxing from his mother, to step up and assist in raising his brother.  What Courtney learned was betrayal, deceit and favoritism at the hands of his brother and other family members.  Eventually Courtney entered adulthood mistrusting his family, while simultaneously seeking their approval and despising his older brother.  Colin, a well-spoken writer of literary novels, is looking for his next big seller.  Pitted against another popular author whose novels lack literary value, according to Colin, he fails miserably in an effort to compete.  Courtney is entering his senior year of college with offers of entering the NBA draft and forgoing his senior year.  Between his issues with Colin, the paternity of a child and his decision to enter the NBA draft, Courtney is at an impasse and makes terrible decisions that could ruin his career and life.<br /><br />Phillip Duck did an excellent job of showcasing the intricacies of the NBA from the sports agents to the team trainers without the typical dumb, ghetto jock hype. His highlighting of the female characters was the catalyst of the story that brought about a climatic ending.  However, Colin's competition with a rival author was not played out with a satisfying conclusion.  In other words, we saw Colin's issues and his resolution, but the rival author disappeared from the scene. The elders' wisdom and experiences add a rich content and each characters' voice is exclusive to him or her.  Playing With Destiny, as a debut novel, is an engrossing and well-written story about jealously, miscommunication and the impact and importance of family that stays with you for a lifetime.<br /><br />Reviewed by Dawn R. Reeves<br /><br />APOOO BookClubPlaying With Destiny, as a debut novel, is an engrossing and well-written story about jealously, miscommunication and the impact and importance of family that stays with you for a lifetime. <br /> <br />Reviewed by Dawn R. Reeves <br />APOOO BookClub <br />	2005-07-20
US	52960010	R1DH58F3DC1KA9	0684854821	546323360	Who Does She Think She Is?: A Novel	Books	4	14	14	N	N	I Am My Mother and Grandmother's Child	Aisha Branch McCovney is the offshoot, snooty, designer wearing daughter of Camille and the granddaughter of Geneva. Unlike her mother, the afro-centric social worker and her deeply racist grandmother, Aisha has forged a lifestyle her behind cannot cash.  In Benilde Little's latest installment, Who Does She Think She Is, we meet these three generations of women and learn about their take on life and the opposite sex.<br /><br />Aisha is involved in an interracial relationship and is in the midst of planning her wedding to Will.  Will is from old money, both on his maternal and paternal sides.  Their relationship seems on the up and up until Aisha meets Miles, a friend and business associate of Will's father, and all bets are off.  As Aisha grapples with her insecurities about life, love and not knowing her biological father, everyone else has an opinion.  What is different is no one verbalizes his or her thoughts with the exception of Aisha's girlfriend.<br /><br />Set in New York City and Newark, New Jersey, in alternating chapters we listen to the history and current situation of each woman.  Camille was an unmarried teenage mother much to her mother's dismay but somehow redeemed herself by marrying a successful lawyer.  Geneva tells the story of attending Hampton Institute and primed to marry the right man, that is until she meets, falls in love and marries a jazz musician.<br /><br />The secondary characters are ripe with their own stories and they each connect to Aisha, Camille and Geneva.  Some scenes may appear difficult to comprehend or unrealistic, but redeem themselves as the story picks up the pace for a satisfying conclusion. The story opens with thoughts of Miss Mabel, Geneva's housekeeper, and what her take may be on Aisha's impeding marriage.  As the book closes, we once again get a taste of Ms. Mabel; delicate words but so true to form for all of the women of the Branch family.<br /><br />Reviewed by Dawn R. Reeves<br /><br />APOOO BookClub/>	2005-05-17
US	52960010	R1ZCER8FZ827IW	1583144811	766403602	Mississippi Blues	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Blues Within	In the heart of Mississippi are five siblings partaking in sibling rivalry at its best.  Cassandra Darden Bell's Mississippi Blues is the story of five sisters and brothers who are as different as night is to day and showcases how each forged their way into adulthood, some with success and others, if you are judging, not so successful.  All of them stayed in Mississippi with the exception of Beverly Lemark, a best selling writer penning under an assumed name.<br /><br />Looking from the outside in, one would assume that Beverly has it all, her writing career, a husband, two children and a beautiful home.  But as Beverly is left alone to write, her drinking increases and the writing decreases.  When Beverly receives word that she must return to Mississippi to attend to family business, her lonely yet seemingly idyllic life comes crashing down.  Mississippi Blues pits sibling against sibling through lack of communication and lack of understanding.  Beverly comes to realize through a tragic event that she must stop running away from her problems and we cannot choose our family but in the end it is family first and forever.<br /><br />Cassandra Darden Bell showcases a story with a clear imagery of the Vicksburg, Mississippi area, developed characters who are likeable and not so likeable and dialogue that is heartfelt and realistic.  A truly touching story.<br /><br />Reviewed by Dawn R. Reeves<br /><br />APOOO BookClub	2005-03-04
US	52960010	R3KYE6QFY7FEXS	0451213246	24617410	Gets No Love	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Can I Get Some Love?	Eric Pete's newest edition to the contemporary fiction scene, Gets No Love, is a classic example of reaping what you sow.  In my opinion, his best work to date, this book packs substance in the form of redemption.<br /><br />Lance, a former bad boy turned current computer technician, who was stood up at the altar by the love of his life, goes about his daily life trying his best to stay out of the game but methodically gets sucked back in, all in the name of friendship.  Lance's plan to win Val back is thwarted by several obstacles but is intriguing to read.  Akhet is an up and coming rap star and best friend to Lance.  He has a secret, or so he thought, that prevents him from being all that he could be.  As I was reading I often thought, \\"can these brothers get a break\\".<br /><br />While appealing to the hip-hop generation, this latest installment by Pete can appeal to others because each character has a role to play and Pete demonstrates the ability to keep each role separate yet unique with their raw and gritty street vernacular to the proper grammar structure.  His descriptions of New Orleans are vivid and the characters style of dress is on point with their personality.  From the blue-collar worker to the street thugs to the record mogul to Mom and Dad to the sweet and invincible girl Lance wants to marry, Pete exhibits a flair for storytelling.<br /><br />Reviewed by Dawn R. Reeves<br /><br />APOOO BookClub	2005-01-23
US	52960010	R28NHWSSISFOZ0	0446532479	971842614	Boaz Brown	Books	5	31	32	N	N	What Does the Word Say?	LaShondra is looking for her Boaz just as many women are waiting on their Boaz.  In Boaz Brown by Michelle Stimpson, LaShondra is a thirty-something Assistant Principal who endures all of the contemporary issues of being a single and saved woman, juggling a career and trying to keep harmony within her family.  The oldest of two, she was raised to be prejudiced by default, but when her Boaz appears in another color all bets are off and an internal struggle begins causing havoc with her friendships, her family and people in general.<br /><br />After living what some may consider a promiscuous lifestyle, LaShondra commits herself to the Lord and lives her life accordingly.  Deeply rooted in the Word, LaShondra approaches her career and her relationships according to the text.  Alternating between past and present passages we come to understand LaShondra's childhood in Black and White.  After a secret is revealed about her father we further understand his behavior, his racist attitude and why it was passed on to his children.<br /><br />Boaz Brown exhibits an example to women and men alike, utilizing scriptures and prayers, which are interpreted for the issues at hand.  However, the Christian theme is not forced but subtly instituted to make for a great novel offering lessons on life, romance and understanding of human behavior and commitment.  Kudos to Michelle Stimpson for a spirit-filled lesson.<br /><br />Reviewed by Dawn R. Reeves<br /><br />APOOO BookClub	2004-08-23
US	52960010	R1YWIETI8R0R9K	0595308872	578664029	Insight	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Love Is Not Blind	Insight by Valerie C. J. McGee is a novel shrouded with mystery from the very first page.  Samantha Robertson is a blind woman living in California who seemingly has a telepathic connection to an Assistant District Attorney in New York City.  When Rachel Maxwell is thrown ten stories from her apartment building, it is Samantha who witnessed the killing through her visions and it is Samantha who longs to go to New York to prove that Rachel did not commit suicide.<br /><br />As a result of a childhood car accident that claimed the life of her mother, Samantha has learned to live and love as a blind woman.  She lives with her father, a retired police officer and her brother Timothy, also a cop.  These two men are very protective of her, however one believes in her visions and the other pacifies her.  Because of this protectiveness, she heads to New York, unbeknownst to her family, to search for the truth behind Rachel's death.  What she finds is an ally in Brian Reynolds, a cop and old family friend.  When everyone attempts to talk Samantha into returning to New York, she is steadfast in her belief and refuses to leave.  What begins is a series of events to prove who Rachel's killer is.  Although blind, does Samantha truly have insight?<br /><br />McGee has inserted secondary characters that assist in making this novel come full circle.  She uses imagery like a master, her characters are fully developed and the plot is intriguing to the end.  The only element that prevented this novel from being rated five stars was the editing.  There are some seemingly unrealistic scenes, however McGee works this plot to the fullest.<br /><br />I met McGee and found her to be a very appreciative and sensitive woman, which piqued my interest in reading her work.  Through her writing, these qualities are realized in a work that mystery fans will enjoy because of the different spin.  McGee states that this is her first of thirty-six novels and I look forward to the others.<br /><br />Reviewed by Dawn R. Reeves<br /><br />APOOO BookClub> <br />Reviewed by Dawn R. Reeves <br />APOOO BookClub	2004-08-07
US	52960010	R2LF4901P7HPF1	1593090188	483219340	Pretenses	Books	5	15	15	N	N	Let the Games Begin	When Coco Nimburu begins a killing spree in and around the Washington D.C. metro area and beyond, FBI agent Phoenix Perry is on the case.  Assigned by the President of the United States, Phoenix's career is on the line and her loved ones are in danger.  However, Coco is always one or two steps ahead of Phoenix.  Pretenses by Keith Lee Johnson is the prequel to Sugar & Spice which for me left some unanswered questions; with Pretenses those questions are answered.<br /><br />A Supreme Court nominee and her husband are murdered while a serial rapist of men is on the loose.  Coco is a hired assassin, skilled in martial arts, who is as aloof as she is deadly.  Phoenix is her nemesis, which only provokes Coco to lure her to a duel.  Coco is a character you will despise but at the same time empathize with; her moral code is skewed at best.  Coco's employer will surprise you and the reasoning behind the killings will shock you even more.<br /><br />The dialogue between the characters is engaging; the attention to detail and imagery is vivid.  Johnson has penned a suspenseful, inviting and unpredictable novel with all of the elements of surprise.<br /><br />Reviewed by Dawn R. Reeves<br />APOOO BookClub	2004-08-05
US	52960010	RSQV65UDKOWEZ	0743260015	910408465	Ida B.: A Novel	Books	4	2	3	N	N	The Heart Of It All	Most of the residents of the Ida B. are family and a somewhat strange bunch.  Karen Quinones Miller?s Ida B., is the story of those that inhabit the Ida B. Barrett Wells Tower in Harlem.  The residents featured wrestle with wanting to leave and needing to leave and when it appears their hands are forced, the old fear of possibly succeeding, rears its ugly head.<br /><br />Three main characters are featured - Brenda Carver is a single mom of four by four different men.  With a father in prison and his impending release, Brenda often wonders if his unavailability was the root of her deeds.  Rosa Rivera is an aspiring actress and best friend to Brenda.  The mixture of Brenda?s family and friends and Rosa?s is hilarious as we watch Rosa try to make it on stage.  Sharif Goldsby is the tower?s activist and scented oil man.  When the residents need assistance with bureaucracies and red tape, Sharif is their man. In addition to their stories, we have a murder at the tower that everyone gets involved in solving.  This murder hits home, breaks your heart and pulls you into the investigation.<br /><br />I truly enjoyed these eclectic characters, their antics and the dialogue.  Karen?s descriptive prose and vivid imagery has a way of landing you there with the familial and nostalgic feelings.  Finally, knowing what is best for you and yours is not always enough for you to succeed in moving forward; something keeps you grounded in the familiar and that is the Ida B.<br /><br />Reviewed by Dawn R. Reeves<br /><br />APOOO BookClub	2004-07-22
US	52960010	R2HLOPS395CKG	0312273096	961258100	Better Than I Know Myself: A Novel	Books	4	16	16	N	N	Sisters In Spirit	Better Than I Know Myself by Virginia DeBerry and Donna Grant highlights the joys, triumphs, failures and pains of Carmen, Jewell and Regina.  As high school seniors each girl dreamed of attending Columbia University's Barnard College, for three different reasons.  All three are different in terms of their upbringings and backgrounds, both economically and sociologically.  When they meet, what develops is a life long friendship spanning twenty or more years.<br />Carmen's background is one of poverty, deceased father, mentally ill mother and an older brother charged with raising her by default.  Her dream is to escape, become a physician and never return to her impoverished home. Jewell is an actress and as a child, starred in a popular televisions series.  The daughter of divorced parents, Jewell craves to escape from the West coast to the East coast to attend college and to withdraw from the status of actress, against her mother's wishes.  Regina is the product of a suburban New Jersey family who has spent her life living in the shadows of her older brothers.  Regina is the ultimate party girl and attempts to find her niche in the event planning business in New York City.  The clich&eacute;s of the poor girl, rich girl and suburban girl are abundant but not tiring.  These girls have some serious issues to contend with in terms of family strife, maturity or lack thereof, dating, finances and finally their relationship with each other.<br />When the novel opens, you enter into a solemn scene at a gravesite that is dated present day.  As the novel continues, you are thrust back to 1981 and methodically are placed, at the end, at the same gravesite.  As I continued to read I found myself enticed by who was buried there and when I believed I knew who it was, based on the drama that played out, I found myself incorrect and back to the drawing board.<br />What I enjoyed most is the thorough family background provided and how it plays into each girl's life to tell a rich and developed story.  These characters were truly sisters in spirit despite their beginnings and DeBerry and Grant do an excellent job of telling the story.  Better Than I Know Myself is another winner from this duo.<br />Reviewed by Dawn R. Reeves<br />APOOO BookClubdeveloped story.  These characters were truly sisters in spirit despite their beginnings and DeBerry and Grant do an excellent job of telling the story.  Better Than I Know Myself is another winner from this duo.<br />Reviewed by Dawn R. Reeves<BR>APOOO BookClub	2004-06-28
US	52960010	R3DH07JJ0ETVVP	0312324294	517053561	Like the First Time: A Novel	Books	4	6	8	N	N	A Blissful Experience	Like The First Time by Francis Ray is the story of three unlikely friends, Claire Bennett, Brooke Dunlap and Lorraine Averhart.  When Middleton Corporation of Charleston, South Carolina is restructured, Claire and Brooke are among the many that must move on.  Faced with mounting bills and few job prospects, the two have no idea where to turn.  When Claire prepares gift baskets full of homemade bath and beauty products for her book club members, Lorraine sees a life long dream in the making, a way out for Claire and vehicle for Brooke to showcase her talent for marketing; a marketing plan that could be used as a blue print.<br />But hold on, all is not as easy as one, two, three; with each woman there is a man that confronts their plan and fuels their emotions as Bliss is born.  In addition to getting Bliss off the ground, these three women must deal with the men in their lives and their baggage.  Claire seeks the business advise of Gray Livingston of Livingston Catalogue while harboring a childhood longing for the man.  Gray, unlucky in love, vows never to give his heart and soul to another woman. Brooke seeks the shoulder of her lover Randolph Peterson III, only to find he is not there physically or emotionally and Lorraine's husband Hamilton, a guru in restructuring companies, is angry about their business endeavor because of insecurities that began in his childhood.  Add to the facts, Gray's ex-wife, Brooke's nemesis John, the longing of a man in Lorraine's life and the savvy grass roots business sense of these women, Like the First Time becomes a blissful experience to read.<br />Coupled with the strong themes of family, love and conviction and set in the picturesque town of Charleston, Francis Ray has given us characters we dislike, [the men in the story are a strange species] characters we like, admire, cheer for and find humorous and ties that bind like the first time!<br />Reviewed by Dawn R. Reeves<br />APOOO BookClub	2004-04-29
US	52960010	R1ROC3MA1Y0IBG	0758200579	410708533	The Ways Of Black Folks: A Year in the Life of a People	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Where and How We Live	From the continents of North America, South America, and Africa, Lawrence C. Ross, Jr., delves into the lives of black folks with The Ways of Black Folks.  With interviews and examinations of their lives and spirits, we are able to get a glimpse of black folks living abroad and amongst us.  Ross takes us to different areas within the United States for a look into lives of everyday people, also interviewing some prominent folks.  Abroad, the country of Ghana, West Africa and several of its cities and towns is heavily highlighted as we get a peek at black Americans that have made Ghana their home, the reasons for the transformation and their desire whether or not to return to the States.  Brazil and the cities of Sao Paulo, Rio de Janeiro and Miguel Cunto are also in the spotlight.<br />Some of my favorite explorations are:  The Execution of Wanda Jean Allen:  McAlester, Oklahoma; Sex and the Sisters: San Fernando Valley, California (a look into the lives of porn actors and actresses, their world, their desires and their needs; Of Canada, Codfish, and the Caribbean: Toronto, Canada; Books, Books, and More Books: Oakland, California (the founding of Marcus Books); The Lady Harris In Paris: Paris, France (professional tour guide); The Fiddler on the Stage: Chicago, Illinois (an account of the Dave Matthews Band); An American In Brazil: Sao Paulo, Brazil; A Teacher's View of Brazil: Rio de Janeiro, Brazil; Never Felt So Loved: Accra, Ghana; A Women In Search of a Country: Kingston, Jamaica; The Sage of Blacksburg: Blacksburg, Virginia (a look at a reading and writing group within a community village of elderly people which is facilitated by Nikki Giovanni).  There are many other accounts, far too many to list, but I am sure as you read you will develop your own list of favorites.<br />One thing you will receive from this book is an education into other cultures outside of the United States and the way we live here in the States.  With The Ways of Black Folks, Ross has pictured another world for us to look at and to relish; a world some may not have known existed.  This is not a heavy educational text but an informal, innocent, raw and rare look at the lives of our people.  Recommended!<br />Reviewed by Dawn R. Reeves<br />APOOO BookClubctured another world for us to look at and to relish; a world some may not have known existed.  This is not a heavy educational text but an informal, innocent, raw and rare look at the lives of our people.  Recommended!<br />Reviewed by Dawn R. Reeves<BR>APOOO BookClub	2004-01-18
US	52960010	R3APNYG3TC01QC	0345465172	916953695	The Shade of My Own Tree	Books	5	2	2	N	N	The Tree of Life	Sheila Williams' second offering of a down on her luck woman packs the same punch as her first offering, Dancing On the Edge of the Roof.  The Shade of My Own Tree introduces Opal Sullivan, a mentally and physically battered divorcee trying to decide what to do with her life.  Williams expertly takes us back in time to relive Opal's life as a young mother and wife forced to sever ties with her extended family.<br />After purchasing a dilapidated house in Appalachia, Opal puts in motion the necessary renovations to take in female boarders temporarily.  While the core of the novel highlights Opal's strengths coupled with the reservations of putting her dreams in motion, Williams showcases some very zany characters that add much-needed humor to Opal's situation.  These characters allow Opal to offer a helping hand in their lives while Opal gets a glimpse of the person she once was.  What better person to help a battered woman than a former battered woman.<br />With witty dialogue, a helping hand from Opal and from the boarders and other new friends, Sheila Williams offers hope for everyday women with a renewed energy.<br />Reviewed by Dawn R. Reeves<br />APOOO BookClub	2004-01-06
US	52960010	R2X016ZIC8PV3M	075820468X	808843697	The Honey Well	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Have You No Shame?	No two Gloria Mallette novels are alike in terms of plot or style, but there is one common denominator and that is the examination of the human psyche.  Mallette gives us primary and secondary characters facing a multitude of life challenges as we witness their resolve.  The Honey Well is such a novel.  Opening with an ironic scene, Arnell remembers a quote by her mother that sets the stage for the novel-\\"Sometimes you have to stick your hand in a bowl of  _ _ _ _ to get what you want.\\"<br />Set in an upscale Brooklyn neighborhood, Arnell Rayford is tired of being her mother's pawn in her house of ill repute.  For the life of Arnell, she cannot comprehend why she cannot say no to her mother when these requests come her way.  It definitely is not for the money but Esther has a trump card.  Esther Rayford, or Queen Esther as she is known in the trade, runs an upscale brothel in a large Victorian home that she acquired out of spite.  Long before her business took off, Esther pimped Arnell to their Jewish landlord to keep a roof over their heads.  Esther and Arnell have come a long way from poverty. Arnell managed to take her earnings and acquire a college degree and now freelances as an editor.  She is also engaged to an up and coming politician and son of a preacher.<br />The Honey Well is an outrageous, intense and bold look at a mother's mental and delusional hold on her child.  While the plot may appear to be as old as the profession of prostitution, Mallette has turned it up a notch with an audacious mother and other shameful characters; with excellent one-liners that make you laugh out loud and shake your head and with dialogue that captures your attention begging you to continue reading. Read along and witness as Arnell comes to terms as to who her mother really is. Is she capable of loving another human being?<br />An unpredictable read, The Honey Well is as good as it gets when it comes to nonstop action. The Honey Well opened with an ironic scene; examine how this same scene plays into the story by the end!  Excellent!<br />Reviewed by Dawn R. Reeves<br />APOOO BookClubow this same scene plays into the story by the end!  Excellent!<br />Reviewed by Dawn R. Reeves<BR>APOOO BookClub	2003-11-27
US	52960010	R20HIS6K1ZMMS	0312315120	38507052	The Savvy Sistahs: A Novel	Books	4	16	16	N	N	My Sisters� Keeper	Simply put The Savvy Sistahs by Brenda Jackson is a girlfriend-to-girlfriend novel with a twist.  These girlfriends, Amber, Brandy and Carla, are not lifelong friends that met during childhood and remained friends, they met at a support group for business women in Orlando, Florida and from that forged their own triple bond of friendship.<br />Each came into the group with their own set of baggage but one thing remains constant, they each have no time or patience for relationships with the opposite sex.  Amber is a survivor of an abusive marriage and the owner of Amber's Books and Gifts.  Through a divorce settlement, Brandy becomes the owner of the St. Laurent Hotel.  Brandy was highlighted in Jackson's novel Family Reunion and someone is back stalking her with ties to that novel.  Carla, a single mother, is named CEO of Osborne Computer Network after her father dies and finds her company the object of a hostile takeover.<br />The men highlighted in this story are endearing as well and also carry some of the same baggage when it comes to relationships with the opposite sex.  Cord Jeffries is an accountant and a very bitter man who must learn to let go of the past and judge people as individuals.  Grey Masters is a private investigator and ex-FBI agent who has kept a haunting secret from his family about his failed marriage and Jesse Devereau is a west coast corporate raider with no shame to his manipulations and takeovers of successful companies.  What role do these men play in the lives of the savvy sistahs?<br />In true Brenda Jackson fashion, The Savvy Sistahs is a novel about family and the ties that bind, finding love in the most unexpected places and last but certainly not least, new friendships that span the test of time.<br />Reviewed by Dawn R. Reeves<br />APOOO BookClub	2003-10-24
US	52960010	R2LIPKZA63XO0X	1583143750	979278518	Serpent In My Corner (Arabesque)	Books	5	10	10	N	N	My Serpent, My Love	Serpent In My Corner by JDaniels highlights Hennessy Cooper working as an undercover FBI agent. Hennessy's assignment is to infiltrate the robbery ring of Tristan (T. J.) James.  Hennessy has followed in the footsteps of her father, a retired police officer.  She is smart, witty and cunning to the point that T. J. falls for her and all bets are off.  With one more robbery to add to his elusive trophy case, T. J. swears this heist will set his partners and himself financially free for life.  What T. J. does not know is that someone other than the FBI is out to foil his plan for reasons of revenge.  But the question remains-who is the real serpent-Hennessy or these unknown assailants.<br />JDaniels captivates the reader regarding T. J.'s life as she portrays his life growing up as child in South Central Los Angeles and his relationship with his mother and his former neighborhood.  We relive his stint in the penitentiary and an important friendship that he cultivates until the very end. Furthermore, T. J. has a demon that haunts him daily that adds intrigue to this story filled with crime, suspense and romance.  The reader is taken on a whirlwind and energetic ride from Los Angeles to Washington, D. C., to picturesque New Mexico and back again.  JDaniels' descriptions of these locales provide a necessary backdrop to the story at hand.<br /><br />This is an excellent and fast paced story involving matters of the heart with multicultural characters that put stereotypes to rest. No one is whom he or she appears to be.<br />Reviewed by Dawn R. Reeves<br />APOOO BookClub	2003-10-08
US	52960010	R18DHTFANDGIBI	0967878918	211521941	Weeping Willows Dance	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Trust In Him	A weeping willow tree sways back and forth just like the days of our lives.  It can provide a sense of peace and a resting place as it did for Mozelle.  As a child, Mozelle was often relegated to helping out with the many children in her household; whether they were her siblings or the children her mother took in.  A tomboy at heart, Mozelle's desires were to leave her Southern town at age eighteen, find work, buy some of the finer things in life and never marry nor raise children.  She wanted to be a free woman.  At age fifteen, Randall Tate walks into town, chooses Mozelle as his wife and because it would be one less mouth to feed, her parents reluctantly consent against Mozelle's wishes.<br />What follows is a hardship of a marriage and life in general.  Mozelle had borne several children, worked in the cotton fields, cleaned houses and cooked in restaurants throughout several Southern towns. Randall was not the man she assumed him to be.  He was a womanizer, refused to give Mozelle money for food and denied his children the presence of a father. This is not the life Mozelle envisioned but because of her resolve, she did what many strong, God-fearing woman would do-she accepted her fate and vowed to make it on her own.<br />Gloria's Mallette's Weeping Willows Dance is a testament of a woman's strength when faced with hard times during a sad period in American history.  Written with a strong Southern dialect and literary flair, Weeping Willows Dance could provide a blueprint for many to follow.  Excellent!<br />Reviewed by Dawn R. Reeves<br />APOOO BookClub	2003-09-21
US	52960010	R3QGTWTE8997KT	0312301545	880462202	One Day I Saw a Black King: A Novel	Books	5	7	7	N	N	A Night In Shining Armor	Life was never kind to John King or Connie Rogers.  John, a drifter by circumstance, claims his home is his car and the road is his paradise.  Marvin Gaye's \\"Lets Get It On\\" is his mantra.  Connie is a child of the streets.  Forced to live on the streets of Denver, Colorado as child, Connie had and continues to have a hard road to toll.<br />One Day I Saw A Black King by J. D. Mason is her second novel of individuals down on their luck and living with the hand they are dealt.  Mason opens the door to John's car and out steps a black king.  The American Heritage® Dictionary of the English Language defines a king as a male sovereign; one that is supreme or preeminent in a particular group, category, or sphere. Is this the same king that Connie comes into contact with?  Both characters are running from their pasts.  John's past is rooted in Texas and haunts him daily.  With a little mysticism, Mason has captured John's spirit and desires.  Hauntingly, Connie's past is right there in Denver, never allowing her to forget or to move on.  When these two lost souls come together is it out of need, lust or is it pure romance?  Is Connie the woman that finally grabs a hold of John never to let go?<br />Mason has incorporated excellent secondary characters with exciting dialogue that add depth to the story line for a better understanding of how and why John and Connie came to be.  The novel opens with an atrocious event and ends with a satisfying conclusion.  The story is heart wrenching, touching and the characters are fully developed.  This is an excellent novel of individuals attempting to overcome their past and live for today and for the future.<br />Reviewed by Dawn R. Reeves<br />APOOO BookClub	2003-09-07
US	52960010	R3M0ULOOC4YLYR	0966936620	905593166	Street's Sons	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Am I My Father's Child?	Street's Son by Felicia Madlock is an awakening look into the reality of fathering several children by different women and the consequences of it.  In his younger days, Samuel &quot;Street&quot; Jamieson was a street hustler and player. In later years, Street legitimizes himself with a thriving business, marries and fathers a child with his wife.  Street's Sons is a look at the consequences of his prior actions and how they come to pass.<br />Street's oldest sons, Terrance and Malik, describe their father as a liar and deceiver.  They watched as their mother, Nadine, pined for Street.  His third son, Bernard, does not put his feelings into words and by all accounts fared well with Street's absence.  His mother, Maggie, flipped the scripted on Street. On the surface Street's actions were of no consequence to him.  Sammie, Street's legitimate son, describes his father as caring and devoted.  Each of Street's sons possessed personality traits and behaviors of their fathers.  When the four young men meet through unusual circumstances, which can only be described as fate, their worlds collide and decisions must be made.<br />We come to know Street through the reflections of his sons, his sister Crystal, Nadine, Maggie and Mr. Ferguson, the father of Sammie's best friend.  Nadine and Maggie reveal some long buried truths to their sons that only add more tension to an already flaming fire.  Nadine and Maggie made choices in their lives as it pertained to Street; read how their lives developed based on theses choices.  What you get is one man with many lives.<br />Street's Sons is packed full of action and emotional turmoil from all the parties involved and for all they come into contact with.  We truly witness the sins of the father and the impact it has on his children well into adulthood, be it negative or positive.<br />Felicia Madlock has crafted characters that you come to care about.  I would recommend Street's Sons to book clubs because of its social commentary and its ability to elicit a lively discussion.  I look forward to reading more from this author.<br />Reviewed by Dawn R. Reeves<br />APOOO BookCluband its ability to elicit a lively discussion.  I look forward to reading more from this author.<br />Reviewed by Dawn R. Reeves<BR>APOOO BookClub	2003-08-14
US	52960010	R2RU8VPGFCG56M	0312982186	831127903	The Best Man: Four Sensuous Novellas	Books	4	13	13	N	N	Is He Really My Best Man?	The four novellas intertwined within the Best Man give us some of the best offerings by the men within.  Jackson, Louis, Mason and Perrin showcase their sensual and heroic men with the Best Man whether it is for better or for worse.<br />Strictly Business by Brenda Jackson gives us the return of Mitch Farrell and Gina Grant Farrell.  After divorcing two years prior, Mitch is back in Houston with a plan to win his former wife back.  In true Brenda Jackson fashion, we witness Mitch's plan as he goes full steam ahead with calculated tactics and romantic twists.  The return of the Maderis family is always a treat and we learn some things about Mitch's childhood that stand to reason his past behaviors.  Mitch has changed, he has grown and he sets out to showcase this change to Gina.  Strictly Business provides friendship, sensuality and true love as Mitch fights for his woman.<br />Catch Me If You Can by Cindi Louis joins long lost lovers Lonzell and Leesa together again after a breakup neither understood and secrets so devastating you will wonder if anyone involved can be forgiven.  This is a truly touching family romance ripe with emotions for all to witness.<br />Promises and Vows by Felicia Mason highlight Jerome and Elise Gregory on the verge of divorce.  Unannounced and unbeknownst, a strong, emotional force arrives in the form of Jerome's Aunt Josephine.  Aunt Joe is a voodoo priestess from the back country of Louisiana. Watch and read as Jerome and Elise try to elude Aunt Joe into believing that everything is all right with their marriage and as Aunt Joe mixes her own brand of magic to save the couple's marriage.<br />Kidnapped by Kayla Perrin is perhaps the most risqu&eacute; and erotic of the four novellas.  Nia and Jamal were lovers from two different worlds.  Pressured by her family to enter into the family business as opposed to teaching, Nia regrets not going with her heart.  Add to the fact that her family and Jamal believe he was not good enough for her and you have an explosive situation as Nia prepares to marry the man of her family's dreams.  On her wedding day Jamal whisks Nia away, not to prevent her marriage but to prove a point.  As Nia learns to go with her heart so to does Jamal as he learns to accept his fate.<br />The Best Man is a consortium of novellas with enough character development to make you care and the right amount of appeal and charm to fascinate and titillate a thirst for romance.<br />Reviewed by Dawn R. Reeves<br />APOOO BookClubhave an explosive situation as Nia prepares to marry the man of her family's dreams.  On her wedding day Jamal whisks Nia away, not to prevent her marriage but to prove a point.  As Nia learns to go with her heart so to does Jamal as he learns to accept his fate.<br />The Best Man is a consortium of novellas with enough character development to make you care and the right amount of appeal and charm to fascinate and titillate a thirst for romance. <br />Reviewed by Dawn R. Reeves<BR>APOOO BookClub	2003-07-27
US	52960010	RJSEBE3VQ4IHF	0743246144	147968453	Using What You Got: A Novel	Books	4	7	7	N	N	I Am My Own Worst Enemy	Reggie Bynum has a long and hard road to toll; he is a single father raising two teenage daughters in Harlem.  On top of this, his sister Charlene (Charlie) visits often to cook and offer her own brand of discipline and advice.  The novel is prefaced with a brief story of Reggie and Charlie as teenagers and the responsibilities put upon them. We get a glimpse of Reggie and his interactions with women, which sets the stage for his adulthood relationships. Reggie promises himself that he will never leave his family, like his father did, and will always provide what he can for them.  Because of this affirmation, Reggie, a former professional gambler, takes a job as a garbage collector; it is honest and steady work.  Reggie's wife Sharon and the girls' mother, abandons the family because of this decision.<br />Nineteen-year-old Tiara Bynum is a beautiful and smart college student and she knows it.  She uses her looks to get what she wants; it is all about Tiara and she damns anyone who gets in her way.  Sister Josephine (Jo-Jo) is a basketball phenomenon suffering through the growing pains of adolescence.  She is typically Tiara's punching bag. Tiara is caught in a dangerous game because she has her eyes set on two young men; one who is interested in her and one who could not care less.  Rashad presents a challenge to Tiara because no man has ever resisted her charm.  Rashad is a cab driver and film school student.  Lionel presents a different challenge to Tiara; he is rich and able to provide her with any tangible item her little heart desires.  Lionel has a dark side and the entire family is caught up in his web of deceit.<br />Using What You Got offers some life lessons that can be enjoyed by both teenagers and adults.  Miller has offered a very realistic and engaging look into the trials and tribulations that many families can go through based on poor decision making; the meaning of family first and forgiveness.<br />Reviewed by Dawn R. Reeves<br />APOOO BookClub	2003-07-21
US	52960010	RCA1RQJ398MJJ	0767912160	813609103	A Little Piece of Sky	Books	5	2	3	N	N	We Shall Overcome	While structurally different and small in stature, A Piece of Sky by Nicole Bailey-Williams is a poignant novel of a young girl's pain, guilt and survival.  Song Byrd is the youngest, illegitimate daughter of a prostitute.  Included in this family are three older siblings with their own demons.  In addition to her family, A Little Piece of Sky reveals the relationships that Song has with others such as her neighbor, Mrs. Olga and her biological father.  It is through them and their offerings that Song comes into her own.<br />Told in Song's voice, the chapters are titled after her thoughts while giving the reader a look into her life.  Two chapters that really stood out were \\"I Wish.\\"  Song wished that she were not poor; that she lived in a better neighborhood with less noise, but for some reason unbeknownst to Song, her mother needed the noise.  Song's ultimate wish was that she would be enough for her mother.  The other captivating chapter was \\"A Little Piece of Sky.\\"  Representing Song's hope for a better future, this chapter captured the essence of Song's pain in which she vowed never to look up at the sky again.  Each chapter is lyrically written and tells a hopeful story of Song while exposing some character revelations.  Add to the fact the social and economic commentary throughout and you have a wonderfully written story of a young girl's life in a low-income section of Philadelphia followed by her life as a middle income resident and the transition that followed.  Beautiful!<br />Reviewed by Dawn R. Reeves<br />APOOO BookClub	2003-06-26
US	52960010	R25PUG3Q1B57WP	1583141936	427429828	Once In A Lifetime (Arabesque)	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Out of the Mouths of Babes	What becomes of a divorced woman with a young child starting anew?  Alexis Stevenson has divorced her husband and abandoned the life she knows; what is next for Alexis?  Alexis secures a position as a home manager at Harrington House in rural Maryland.  Telford Harrington, along with his brothers Drake and Russ are the proprietors of Harrington House and together with their cook, the humorous and protective Mr. Henry, Harrington House has become a mansion of brooding bachelors.  When Alexis reports to work with an inquisitive four-year old child at her side, the fireworks begin.<br />The Harrington brothers, although rich and successful in business, have not led the ideal life.  Each brother is driven but Telford has something to prove and is obsessive in his business dealings.  Alexis has secrets she will not reveal and is determined to turn Harrington House into a home.  With an endearing heart and a captivating spirit, Tara, Alexis' daughter, has enthralled the men of Harrington House to the satisfaction of Alexis.  Can this little girl change the hearts and minds of men who are accustomed to their tranquility and space?  Can she change the mind of her mother who does not want to put her trust in relationships again?<br />Once In A Lifetime provides just enough intrigue to keep you interested in how the story plays out and the right amount of sensuous romance to keep the reader begging for more from the characters.  Through the soul of a little girl, Gwynne Forster has given the reader an enchanting novel of letting go of the past and learning to trust again so that your heart can receive the love that is waiting.<br />Reviewed by Dawn R. Reeves<br />APOOO BookClub	2003-05-30
US	52960010	RQIM2DDVRFLD1	0971515808	311376929	Momma's Baby, Daddy's Maybe	Books	4	6	7	N	N	Too Many Secrets	The title, Momma's Baby, Daddy's Maybe, is a catchy title that could lead a reader to believe that the unknown paternity of a child is the issue.  However, Momma's Baby, Daddy's Maybe, Jamise L. Dames' debut novel, offers much more of an intricate storyline than the title indicates.  The Jacobs siblings, Simone, Derrick and Kennedy, have always been there for each other since the [end of life] of their parents as children, but when it comes to their relationships, they keep to themselves.  Why all of the secrets, why can't they be forthright with each other?<br />Simone is at the top of her game in the corporate world but her lover, Nigel, has a deep dark secret; Kennedy is a single mother and graduate student that can hold her own with the best of them and her child's father, Jared, is a force to be reckoned with when it comes to absentee fathers.  Are Kennedy and Jared over each other?  Brother Derrick is a man that will not commit until love comes surprisingly knocking at his door and thrown into this mix is best friend Miranda and the issues that plague her relationship.  Together, these siblings fight their way through a myriad of life issues.<br />Momma's Baby, Daddy's Maybe is a fast paced novel filled with secrets, facades, lust, sadness, shame and love.  Readers' curiosity will be piqued because of the entanglements formed and the resolutions of the intertwined story.  Filled with passion and emotion, the plot is intriguing and will beg you to continue reading until the last page.  Kudos to Jamise L. Dames for a very good, plot driven and engaging read.<br />Reviewed by Dawn R. Reeves...	2003-04-27
US	52960010	R3POT9FFZF98NY	0465017630	491563338	Why I Love Black Women	Books	4	15	18	N	N	In Salute of the Black Woman	Michael Eric Dyson tells us why he loves black women by featuring several prominent and not so prominent African-American females in Why I Love Black Women.  He begins with tributes to an elementary teacher, his mother and aunts.  He continues with tributes to women he comes into contact with as his educational and religious careers expand. His descriptions of their physical attributes and intellectual brilliance are intense, vivid and classic Michael Dyson.  It may be too descriptive for some but it is vintage Michael Dyson.  His spoken word definitely shines through his written word.<br />With each women highlighted, Mr. Dyson showcases their brilliance with reflections and quotes of his meetings.  Many social issues are explored and while we all may not agree with the politics, Mr. Dyson has portrayed women who can back up their claims and go toe-to-toe with the best of the male species.<br />As an African-American female, this is a feel good testament to African-American women by a prominent African-American male; a read that is thought provoking; one that would illicit excellent discussions among book clubs because of the social commentary and one that I recommend to both women and men alike.<br />Reviewed by Dawn R. Reeves<br />APOOO BookClub	2003-04-07
US	52960010	R2FOJJH6VP758E	1585710849	39455636	Twist of Fate (Love Spectrum Romance)	Books	4	46	48	N	N	This Is My Child	A Twist of Fate can best be described as a chain of mistakes that lead to boy meets girl and they fall in love.  However, it is not as simple as that and it is not without many obstacles in the way.  Obstacles such as he is Caucasian and she is African-American; he is rich, she is middle-income; he is divorced, she is a widow; his mother disapproves and her brother disapproves and finally, they both can lay claim to the same child.<br />Set in the outskirts of picturesque New Orleans, A Twist of Fate showcases Camille King as a music teacher and former circuit pianist and Nicholas Cardoneaux as CEO of Cardoneaux Construction and resident of Magnolia Grove.  A Twist of Fate highlights emotional baggage from the main characters' former marriages and baggage of the secondary characters, which adds realism to some of the social stigmas at play today.  Although, some of the social issues are a bit overdone, secondary characters provide a positive outlook for the main characters that are refreshing and add twists to the storyline.<br />Ms. Clark has penned an emotionally charged story with sensuous lovemaking scenes, vibrant imagery and characters you can feel, see, touch and root for.  A Twist of Fate is a quick read, which begs you to ask, how could a mistake like this happen?<br />Reviewed by Dawn R. Reeves<br />APOOO BookClub	2003-04-07
US	52960010	RW12RL0YFCUD2	0970819110	199568450	Shattered Vessels	Books	4	8	8	N	N	How Could You Know That My Soul Is Shattered?	Nancey Flowers opens Shattered Vessels, the novel with Shattered Vessels, the poem.  In it she exhibits how your body is a vessel filled with emotions, spirits, thoughts, hopes and dreams.  She alludes to the fact that on the outside your vessel may appear whole but on the inside you know the truth.  This poem serves as great prologue for the story within.<br />Shattered Vessels features four friends, their husbands and their plights as couples.  Sandy and Bedford; Sandy's cousins-sisters India and Patience; their husbands Grayson and Jonathan; and Sandy's friend Wanita and her husband William.  The story focuses on domestic violence and its implications on the victim, the abuser, family and friends.<br />Sandy's abuse is not physical; her husband is a philanderer, bedding numerous women he comes into contact with including his ex-wife who is his business partner.  Grayson physically abuses India and Wanita's husband William mentally abuses her; he believes he is academically superior and how dare she form an opinion. Of the four, Patience is not in an abusive relationship, however she knows that her sister India is trying desperately to hide her abuse for all the wrong reasons.  We read about the daily trials and tribulations of these women and how they overcome, if they ever do, their demons or the demons of their husbands.  I only wished that more insight had been provided on the husbands and their backgrounds.  There was some but not enough to form an opinion as to their behavior.  But then again, maybe there could never be an answer to their abusive behavior whether mental or physical.<br /><br />Shattered Vessels is a compelling, engaging, wonderfully written and neatly packaged story.  Nancey Flowers is a great storyteller that forces you into the lives and minds of her characters.  She concludes the novel with a message defending the stories within as true occurrences due to her interviews with abused women. Domestic violence, whether physical or mental, knows no economic boundaries (as portrayed within this story) and happens to whom we least expect.<br />Reviewed by Dawn R. Reeves, APOOO BookClubws no economic boundaries (as portrayed within this story) and happens to whom we least expect.<br />Reviewed by Dawn R. Reeves, APOOO BookClub	2003-04-02
US	52960010	R1MHGXFHHMLBP4	0759648387	388748950	The Key Party	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Anxieties Abound	Four couples, eight people, venture into a world some only fantasize about.  Nikki Reynolds always had sexual fantasies that she had yet to act upon.  Her latest involved her friends and their husbands and significant others.  How this all plays out are the elements of The Key Party.  Nikki gathered her friends for an evening of eating and relaxing and laid down the rules of The Key Party.  Each individual had one week to mull over this sexual escapade and report back, yes or no, his or her participation in The Key Party.<br />With the party in full swing and anxiety at its highest level, each male participant had to select a key from a group of keys belonging to each female participant.  What would happen after arriving at the home of the female participant is anyone's guess.  The Key Party exposed hidden secrets and desires along with inhibitions of each participant.  Would the relationships established prior to The Key Party be maintained?<br />Perryman and Hankerson did a very good job of exposing family backgrounds of some of the characters, thus providing the reader with an understanding as to their current behavior.  Each participant learned something of their selected mate that they did not know.  Some sections and behaviors were surprising, wild and over the top.  When the party was over were there still unanswered questions?  Did Nikki have a sense of fulfillment because her friends accepted her fantasy? Looking for a read that will take you away, this is a good book for the escapist in you. Reviewed by Dawn R. Reeves, APOOO BookClub	2003-03-02
US	52960010	R3JK7YTI0RYDAO	0312306113	504346361	Ties That Bind: A Novel	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Forever Yours	Spanning thirty-seven years, Brenda Jackson's Ties That Bind introduces us to the rich and prominent Fuller family from Richmond, Virginia; the Denison family from picturesque Hilton Head Island and Glendale Shores, South Carolina; the Wainwright and Murdoch families of Miami, Florida and the Haywood family from Knoxville, Tennessee.  Children from each of these families attend Howard University during the 1960s, establishing life-long friendships and intimate relationships.<br />Randolph Fuller falls in love with Jenna Haywood despite the misgivings and interference of his wealthy paternal grandmother who has paired Randolph with another woman of her choosing.  Randolph's maternal grandmother however, accepts the union and spins her mystical power upon the couple using the island of Glendale Shores as her trump card.  Grandmother Fuller has also paired Ross, Randolph's brother, with a woman of her choosing but it is Randolph who fights her every step of the way, while Ross accepts his fate to be in loveless relationship with conniving Angela Douglass.  Grandmother Fuller and Angela resort to despicable plots to keep Randolph and Jenna apart.<br />Much of Jackson's story is set against the backdrop of the Vietnam War and Civil Rights movement adding realistic imagery as we watch the friends and families deal with the tumultuous and riotous times of the 1960s.  Jackson has also added numerous characters in the form of friends, Leigh Murdoch, Noah Wainwright, Ellie Stanhope and Johnny Lane that make this family saga complete as we get a major glimpse into their lives.  While there are numerous characters and storylines, not once is the focus lost; Randolph and Jenna remain the focal point.  The story goes one step further as children are born from these unions and their stories are showcased.<br />Ties That Bind touches the soul, giving the reader a story that showcases quality friendships, loving families, positive African-American men and intricate and sensual lovemaking scenes.  This is classic Brenda Jackson and one of her best to date!<br />Reviewed by Dawn R. Reeves, APOOO BookClubemaking scenes.  This is classic Brenda Jackson and one of her best to date!<br />Reviewed by Dawn R. Reeves, APOOO BookClub	2003-02-19
US	52960010	R2IMHIME8FV79W	0966618939	97870499	Broken Beyond Repair	Books	2	3	4	N	N	Too Much Is Broken	Broken Beyond Repair begins where Written In Red Ink leaves off.  With Written In Red Ink we are introduced to the Bennett family and all whom encompass them.  With Broken Beyond Repair we witness an accidental encounter gone awry, lack of communication and plenty of drama.<br />Lisa Bennett and Shawn Favor are married and both have promising careers, but Lisa has not been able to carry a child to term creating anxiety coupled with desire.  Throw in a sister's deceit, another sister's dream, an Uncle's marital drama, a cousin's parentage, another cousin's deafness and a host of other storylines and you have relationships, which are dysfunctional at best.<br />The main premise points to an excellent storyline, however this novel has too many stories, which are unable to be fully developed among the pages allowed. Characters are reintroduced from Written In Red Ink but their introduction does not flow and leaves the reader confused.  You are forced to go back to prior pages to see if you missed something only to discover that you did not.  It is not until you are three-quarters of the way completed that you realize who and what these characters are and how they fit into the current storyline. It appears that this is a set up for more stories to come, however the numerous stories took away from the focus of Lisa and Sean and appeared to be out of place because of the lack of development.  Reviewed by Dawn R. Reeves, APOOO BookClub	2003-01-23
US	52960010	RBUU1CUWN5FU	0684854805	242781607	Acting Out: A Novel	Books	3	1	1	N	N	The Heart of the Matter	For Ina, the matter is a life of unfulfillment, discontent and frustration.  As she contemplates her life, her husband announces that he is leaving her and their three children.  Never following her dreams because of doubts from others and her need for a safety net, Ina is forced to be all that she can be for the sake of herself and her children.  Jay is a man from humble beginnings who wanted it all, worked to achieve his dream, and it still was not enough to prevent failure.  Forced to look within his bourgeoisie psyche, lessons are abundant as Jay comes to terms with the world that he never quite fit into.<br /><br />Told through the voice of Ina, she dwells on her childhood, her college years, her courtship with Jay and a lost love.  A host of secondary characters add to the mixture forcing the reader to understand whom Ina and Jay are and what they really are trying to escape, hence the good character development.<br />Thought provoking, intricate and somewhat complicated at times, Benilde Little forces the reader into Ina and Jay's world as we navigate the past, present and future with them. Acting Out explores how our past can dictate our future, our hopes and our dreams and reverts back to that age-old quote, \\"be careful what you wish for.\\"  Reviewed by Dawn R. Reeves, APOOO BookClub	2003-01-21
US	52960010	RE60MCOFPSVY7	0385334281	108801480	Friday Nights at Honeybee's	Books	5	11	11	N	N	The Big House	On a Friday night at Honeybee McColor's you will find a \\"gather\\" which includes good food, good conversation and good music among some of the best black musicians in Harlem.  Set in the early 1960's, Friday Night At Honeybee's is a musical anthology of that time.<br />This story revolves around two characters that arrive at Honeybee's brownstone after literally running away from home.  Told in alternating chapters, Forestine Bent and Viola Bembrey are running from the consequences of their actions in their homes.  As a child Forestine always relished the music around her.  She practiced with the best and dreamed about a life of singing and traveling.  Her Achilles heel is her narrow-mindedness. Viola has an angelic voice but was relegated to life as a deacon's wife.  One incident had her branded and forced from her southern hometown.  Viola, provided with the name and address of Honeybee McColor, arrives in Harlem under duress and fear. Together, these two woman deal with their demons and their guilt to form a friendship rich in loyalty. With the assistance of Honeybee, Willa and Vernon, the other inhabitants at Honeybee's brownstone, Forestine and Viola definitely come into their own as woman of that time.<br />This is an interesting novel told in a fluid, symphonic and dramatic tone.  Ms Smith provides the reader with Forestine and Viola's family history, which guides the reader in understanding their plights.  The reader is also provided with a wealth of musical knowledge as it pertains to the history of blues and finally jazz.  This is an excellent portrayal of 1960 Harlem, its music and the musical accomplishments of that time.<br />Reviewed by Dawn R. Reeves, APOOO BookClub	2003-01-03
US	52960010	R3CURCOX56RQB4	1585710830	187226405	Everlasting Moments (Indigo: Sensuous Love Stories)	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Letting Go	A chance encounter, the backdrop Rio, Brazil and you have moments that will last a lifetime for Rhea Hamilton and Gustavo Owens.<br />Rhea is a freelance photographer who accepts an assignment over the holiday season in Brazil.  Running from memories of a past holiday season, Rhea relishes in the fact that she will not be home for the holidays.  Gustavo is a native Brazilian of African descent.  His wealth and sex appeal causes many hearts to flutter but he lives with a deep-rooted issue that he cannot seem to shake.  Their chance meeting at a Miami airport takes them on a whirlwind ride of learning to trust and to let go of the past.  Everlasting Moments also offers some hilarious secondary characters that provide wit and believable dialogue, which adds depth to this tale of love.<br /><br />Miss Love provides an exquisite display of several cities in modern Brazil while adding a history lesson of the country.  Also included is the portrayal of the holiday season celebration, both festive and religious, in this richly diverse country.  Excellent portrayal of Brazil and a recommended read..........Reviewed by Dawn R. Reeves, APOOO BookClub	2002-12-16
US	52960010	RH6FL03ONNQXB	034545930X	728415237	Dancing on the Edge of the Roof	Books	4	11	11	N	N	In Search of Self	Dancing On the Edge of the Roof is the story of one woman's struggle with her current life and her need for another.  At forty-two years old, Juanita has had it with her manipulating and dead beat adult children, her job and her surroundings.  What does she do................she jumps on a Greyhound bus and heads west to points unknown.  What she discovers is an entire world so different from her past surroundings that she seeks further knowledge by staying awhile.<br />The residents of Paper Moon, Montana are so smitten with Juanita that they welcome her and her knowledge of cooking with open arms.  While in Paper Moon Juanita discovers a cast of offbeat characters that are as strange to her as she is to them.  Several characters play an intimate role in Juanita's metamorphosis, but the one that stands out and forces her to seek her true self is Jesse Gardiner, a full- blooded Indian with his own demons that he must conquer.  With Juanita's interference in his restaurant business and with his suffering, Jesse and Juanita form a strange bond that may be broken if she leaves Paper Moon.<br />Dancing On the Edge of the Roof is a poignant adventure that is both humorous and inspiring of one woman's gumption to change the course of her life in search of self.  A very good and a recommended first novel!<br />Reviewed by Dawn R. Reeves, APOOO BookClub	2002-12-14
US	52960010	R142B7ZU5JJB50	1575668521	969232174	Candy Don't Come In Gray	Books	5	3	3	N	N	I Do Exist	Matilda \\"Mattie\\" Dinkins surrounds herself with mirrors of all shapes and sizes and dresses in brightly colored clothing.  The mirrors are a constant metaphor throughout Candy Don't Come In Gray set on the island of Trinidad. Mattie is the illegitimate child of Dominic Evers; a father she and her mother spent time with every Wednesday throughout her life.  Mattie's fear of not being known and regarded prompts her obsession with the mirrors in her life.<br />Dominic, born into wealth, which he continued to amass throughout his life, is a well-known, church going and respected businessman.  Mattie is his dark skinned secret conceived by Claudine, a woman from the wrong side of the tracks.<br />Jonah Reyes is the maid's nephew and Dominic's pet project.  As a young boy Jonah is sent to live with his aunt and the Evers family.  Dominic grooms Jonah into an astute student and businessman.  During his lifetime Jonah becomes the friend, protector and finally husband of Justine, Dominic's daughter by his wife Faith.<br />Dominic's death causes a domino effect of emotions and the discovery of self within the family structure for all of the characters.  Are these characters mere puppets of Dominic Evers? Tackling class issues, selfishness, manipulation and adoration, Candy Don't Come In Gray is a profound and excellently written novel that will leave you pondering the future of the Evers family. Heartfelt!<br />Reviewed by Dawn R. Reeves, Apooo BookClub	2002-11-29
US	52960010	R2SW1XEZQSDOWP	0743457390	989781187	For Better, For Worse (Soul Food Series)	Books	5	9	10	N	N	Sisters Through Thick and Thin	First it was Soul Food the movie, then Soul Food the television series and now Soul Food: For Better, For Worse, the book.  Written by Leslie E. Banks, the Soul Food book series has all the makings of a hit with two additional installments to be released.<br />Soul Food: For Better, For Worse is the continuing story of Bird, the baby of the family, and Lem and their trials and tribulations.  As Lem secretly tries to improve his life, Bird continues to distrust him.  Taking her issues to her sisters Teri and Maxine, the Joseph sisters continue to exhibit the behavior for which they are known.  Teri, the family leader, is high-strung, opinionated, and distrustful of Lem.  Maxine is the classic middle child, poet, and listener.  Kenny, Maxine's husband, continues to be the foundation of the family, Lem's brother-in-law and best friend. The entire family is alive and well, exhibiting classic behaviors that we can all attest to.<br />An excellent storyline is presented as we learn of Lem's desires, through his musings, to be successful.  Bird and the family's suspicions of him further complicate matters as the story climaxes to an exciting conclusion. Bird has an eye opener by way of her distrust that ultimately she must come to terms with. There is a lesson to be learned for all of the family members. In traditional Leslie E. Banks style, you are given characters that come alive from the pages on which they are written.<br />If you loved the movie and the television series, you will love the written word of Soul Food:  For Better, For Worse.  Another kudos to Leslie!<br />Reviewed by Dawn R. Reeves, Apooo BookClub	2002-11-29
US	52960010	RYTD4IRU11ITO	0743410394	45652946	River Woman: A Novel	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Forced Into Action	River Woman is a haunting account at one woman's pain of lost love and an entire town's pain of justice denied.  Kelithe is a nineteen year old woman whose son, Timothy, drowns in the Rio Minho River as his mother washed laundry.  The other women at the river say that Kelithe stood by and let her son drown so that she could go \\"foreign\\" with her mother; a mother that left her in Standfast, Jamaica fifteen years prior.<br />Enter Sonya, Kelithe's mother, who arrives back in Standfast for the wake. Kelithe denies her role in her son's drowning, while Sonya contemplates her daughter's role by shifting back and forth between blaming and not blaming her and listening to the natives' account of the drowning.<br />The uniqueness of this story comes in the form of Kelithe and Sonya's contemplation through the reader only. Never do they deny or blame each other verbally for the drowning, the love denied, the false promises or the betrayal. The river and river women are symbolic as they represent all that Standfast has endured since Sonya was a young girl in Standfast and before.  This incident forces the town into action and produces emotions that the island of Jamaica has never seen by the residents of Standfast.<br />Written in a very lyrical tone, River Woman is a novel that will have you contemplating the ramifications of Sonya's actions fifteen years prior and her actions in the present.  This is a sad account that leaves you wondering what exactly happened at the river that day and why.<br />Reviewed by Dawn R. Reeves, Apooo BookClub	2002-11-11
US	52960010	R3VJ5J7S4F2KHZ	157566917X	533770852	True Lies	Books	5	4	4	N	N	I Cannot Tell A Lie	With True Lies, Margaret Johnson-Hodge has scored again with an extraordinary portrait of accepting situations that are not in our best interest, deceiving oneself, all the while hoping things will change.  Johnson-Hodge has captured the true essence of disillusioned lovers who fight for their love.<br />Dajah Moore and Rick Trimmons inadvertently meet one evening; she on her way home, he on his way to work.  Dajah is an accountant and Rick is a correctional officer, both from middle-class backgrounds.  Dajah is unattached; Rick has a live-in girlfriend and a small child by the name of Kanisha.  Gina, Rick's girlfriend, is not the best idea of a mother; she is manipulating, cunning and downright trifling.  Somehow Rick has managed to keep his family together despite Gina's juvenile ways.  Dajah informs Rick, \\"when you're free.\\"  Rick's motivation in life is his daughter and her happiness. Rick devises the \\"plan\\" as his way of being with the woman he wants and at the same time, being with his daughter.<br />True Lies takes you on a journey with Dajah and Rick as they try to define their feelings for each other and the people around them; as they try to make a better place for the people in their lives, all the while neglecting themselves. Demonstrated is the making of decisions in the best interest of someone and how those decisions affect other individuals.  Decisions, as a reader you may question, but are somehow able to understand.  I found myself talking to the characters, hoping, worrying and praying for them.  Friends and other characters' lives are examined as well, allowing the reader to see the main characters in a realistic sense of everyday living and loving.<br />The language and imagery used to tell this story makes it thought provoking and I am sure, would lead to a lively discussion of what you \\"would have done\\" if placed in the characters' situation. True Lies is another excellent portrayal of the human psyche, because it elicits the reader's emotions and will go down as one of my favorites of 2002.  Powerful!<br />Reviewed by Dawn R. Reeves, Apooo BookCluband will go down as one of my favorites of 2002.  Powerful!<BR>Reviewed by Dawn R. Reeves, Apooo BookClub	2002-10-27
US	52960010	RNI1X298E7KT3	1401004253	740125707	Cinnamon Browne: Waiting on Love	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Young Love	This is a story of young love at its best and worst.  Cinnamon Browne and Michael (Chunky) Taylor were childhood friends and schoolmates.  As the story progresses we are treated to Cinnamon and Chunky's love story as teenagers; their shenanigans of trying to be together sexually unbeknownst to their parents.  The story takes the reader on a journey through their college years and their young adult years.  We are also treated to the meddling of their family and friends into their relationship.  My favorite sections are Cinnamon's attempts at life without Chunky; we go on dates and go through relationships with Cinnamon.  Lauren Spicer is animated when describing this portion of Cinnamon's story.<br />This is a true coming of age story and in my opinion geared towards the late teen and young adult age group.  Lauren Spicer has written a very good book with a realistic storyline, fast paced plot and a climatic ending............Reviewed by Dawn R. Reeves, APOOO BookClub	2002-10-03
US	52960010	RNN54L1403WII	0970499515	858505917	Someone's in the Kitchen	Books	3	9	11	N	N	The After Effects	Someone's In the Kitchen explores the effects of our childhood on our adulthood relationships.  Highlighting the friendship and relationships of Reggie and Neil, Someone's In the Kitchen is a page turning book filled with the daily escapades of the main characters.<br />Reggie is a player who refuses to commit to one woman until someone comes along and flips the script on him.  Will he commit?  Neil's desire is to be committed to his marriage but his wife refuses to cooperate.  Will he stay in his marriage?  Reggie's player ways often land him in trouble with the women in his life and his job.  Unfortunately, Neil's dream of entrepreneurship is something that is not shared by his wife.<br />Told in alternating chapters of Reggie and Neil, we travel through their daily routines that not only deal with their relationships with the opposite sex, but we also get a peek at Reggie and Neil's relationship with each other.  While different as night and day, you have to wonder how these two remain friends, or do they?  Told in voices that are entertaining, coupled with a somewhat surprising climax, Someone's In the Kitchen is a recommended read for the drama-filled enthusiast.  Reviewed by Dawn R. Reeves, APOOO BookClub	2002-09-12
US	52960010	RNR242QAKQZVV	0743224973	906191288	Harlem Redux: A Novel	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Captivating Portrayal	Harlem Redux by Persia Walker could be described as a history lesson with a murder mystery thrown in for good measure or vice versa.  Walker's portrayal of the affluent McKay family and other families on Harlem's Striver's Row during the 1920 era, is rich in detail as the mystery is superbly laid before our eyes.<br />David McKay, an attorney living in Philadelphia, returns to Harlem after a four-year hiatus to question his sister's suicide.  What he finds is, \\"all is not as it seems\\" and he sets out to find the truth about his sister's death.  As David investigates, several characters stand in his way of the truth.  David thoughts constantly revert back to \\"all is not as it seems\\" as he stubbornly rushes into seedy joints and ruthless people who have something to hide. David too, has a secret that he would rather keep hidden because it could destroy the family name.  But as David inches closer to the truth, the threat of his secret being revealed is probable at best.  Harlem Redux is a complicated murder mystery and just when you believe you can name the culprit, Walker reveals other riveting details to further complicate matters.  When all is said and done \\"all was not as it seemed.\\"<br />Persia Walker has written an excellent murder mystery that provides necessary and vivid descriptions of Harlem and its people, both rich and poor, during a time when people were proud of their determinations.  Harlem Redux will go down as one of my all-time favorite mysteries and one of my all-time favorite books......Reviewed by Dawn R. Reeves, APOOO BookClub	2002-08-28
US	52960010	R3RKGNOQR3SP7N	0971069506	545528066	By Chance or Choice	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Consequences	Do events in our lives happen by chance or by choice?  The novel By Chance Or Choice examines this concept by focusing on the lives of five twenty-something adults.<br />All five characters in this novel take chances with their lives and make choices that have grave consequences. Talise works for an insurance agency and takes chances to ease whatever pain she is feeling at the time, putting her relationships in jeopardy.  Gem, with her angelic voice, is a wannabe singer trying to be discovered and remain true to her God.  Calvin is a marketing entrepreneur caught in a boring but steady relationship that he betrays over and over again.  Stephanie is a psychologist who willingly gives unsolicited advice but does not heed it herself. Stephon is living a two-sided life trying to make a buck unbeknownst to others around him.<br />By Chance Or Choice is packed full of emotional drama that had this reader talking to the characters and wishing that the choices they made were different.  Lessons were in abundance as I traveled over the course of several years with the characters.  With the exception of a few proofreading mistakes and one storyline not fully developed, this was a good effort of lessons taught and learned.  And lastly, all was not happily ever after nor neatly tied up at the end!  ...	2002-08-19
US	52960010	R4EHZOUO7QO93	1583143270	933762180	Doctor, Doctor (Arabesque)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Letting Go Of Our Prejudices	After a night of partying and ruining her parent's house, Shayla's father, Dr. Eric Crawford, arranges for her to take a position in rural Mississippi to help a struggling and aging medical center.  Shayla feels that her father wants to punish her, but Eric wants his daughter to grow up and take responsibility for her actions.<br />When Shayla arrives in Alberta, Mississippi she is greeted by Dr. Jake Parker and his staff of the medical center that she has been relegated to.  To her dismay, Alberta is rural and full of poor people. To Jake's dismay, Shayla is a rich snob who will not last in Alberta.<br />Doctor, Doctor is a typical romance where boy meets girl and you wonder whether or not they can weather the storm.  But this one is hilarious as we watch Shayla navigate the rural community of Alberta with the determination of a tyrant.  Jake is equally enchanting as we watch him resist all offers of assistance to save his medical facility.  Included in this delightful tale are political shenanigans that Jake cannot control.  Equally appealing are Shayla's extended family members who too have the same determination as Shayla.<br />Doctor, Doctor is a nice and easy follow up to Silken Love as we watch Shayla attempt to grow up.. .....Reviewed by Dawn R. Reeves, APOOO BookClub.	2002-07-28
US	52960010	R1HPBG9DGG931Z	1585710687	933729027	Still Waters Run Deep (Indigo: Sensuous Love Stories)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Holding On	For me, Still Waters Run Deep was a much-anticipated sequel to Rivers of the Soul and I was not disappointed.  While reading this novel, I was often reminded of and hummed that oldie tune of the same title.<br />In Rivers of the Soul, Toni and Jerome reintroduced themselves to each other with the excitement and freshness of new lovers.  Still Waters Run Deep picks up where Rivers of the Soul left off, with Toni and Jerome taking their relationship public and going through the trials and tribulations of meshing careers, finances and blending families.  After finding each other, knowing that they are each other's soul mate, will they be able to navigate the obstacles placed before them?<br />Still Waters Run Deep goes several steps further by examining Toni and Jerome's responses to their responsibilities; their ability to handle crisis; their speculations of the uncertainty of their relationship and revealing some truths that neither knew about the other.<br />Leslie Esdaile's characters are feisty and strong willed; the situations are descriptive, vivid and realistic.  This sequel, while long on pages, is quick and thought-provoking. What I took from this novel is to dream, instill your faith in that dream and never let go. .....Reviewed by Dawn R. Reeves, APOOO BookClub.	2002-07-26
US	52960010	R1YS53EL0BJQ9J	0385332874	136732186	Whitegirl	Books	3	3	4	N	N	The Musings of a White Girl	White Girl is penned as a \\"whodunit\\" but Kate Manning manages to take the reader into the heart and soul of Charlotte Halsey Robicheaux.  Charlotte is a Caucasian woman and former model married to African-American, former superstar skier, turned sports commentator, Milo Robicheaux.  They are wealthy, well known and a target for anyone and everyone seeking fame, fortune and revenge.<br />Meeting at a New England college as the girlfriend of another skier, Charlotte and Milo meet up again five years later in New York City. White Girl is a copulation of Charlotte's reflections of her life with Milo.  Unaware or seemingly uncaring of what others think, Charlotte and Milo marry, have a child and move to California.  Charlotte takes the reader through her childhood in California, her time spent in college, her move to New York City and right up to the tragic assault that leaves her speechless.  Charlotte's reflections are drawn out and tiresome for Charlotte does not see Milo as black; she sees him as just, Milo.  She cannot understand what all the hoopla is about. The characterizations of Charlotte and Milo are excellently developed; I went from pitying Charlotte to thinking \\"wake up, get a life\\".  The addition of the secondary characters: the friends, the siblings, the parents and the agent all provide some understanding into the personalities of Charlotte and Milo. These characters are just as complicated as Charlotte and Milo and they are characters that you will love to hate.  What part, if any, do they play in Charlotte's tragic assault?<br />This is a complicated and tragic story of interracial attraction and love and the inability to see beyond the facade.  Did Charlotte and Milo actually get together out of spite or out of their desire to fulfill a fantasy?<br />Manning utilizes a skillful blend of every literary technique imaginable.  While the plot was interesting at best, too much time was spent on Charlotte's musings and it would have been helpful to get Milo's perspective on their lives as opposed to what Charlotte thought were Milo's feelings, thus the average rating.....Reviewed by Dawn R. Reeves, APOOO BookClub.Milo's perspective on their lives as opposed to what Charlotte thought were Milo's feelings, thus the average rating.....Reviewed by Dawn R. Reeves, APOOO BookClub.	2002-07-24
US	52960010	RE56N2D61EXXS	1583142584	615975881	MAMA's Girls (Sepia)	Books	4	9	12	N	N	The Pains of a Childhood	What seems like a simple story of three sisters raised by their maternal grandmother, Mama Laurel, in Cleveland, Ohio turns out to be a complicated mix of personalities and situations resulting in the attempted suicide of the youngest sister.  To further complicate matters, is the paternal grandmother's arrival from North Carolina after the suicide attempt.<br />Mama Laurel and Gram Naomi hate each other; neither could ever agree on how to raise the children \\"properly.\\"  Because of buried secrets and the need to protect the family name, Olivia, the baby of the girls, is forced to forge ahead, forget about it, say nothing! Unable to handle her grief, she attempts suicide.  The suicide attempt is what brings each character full circle.  Realizing their behavioral flaws and what part they may have played in the suicide attempt, each woman has some sort of resurrection so that the healing can begin for all.<br />McCarthy Louard has written a plausible novel with characters that you love to hate and characters that you care about and root for.  She is able to pull you into their lives with some action packed drama. This is a good novel from a first time novelist because it exposed a topic that is not often discussed honestly and intelligently.......Reviewed by Dawn R. Reeves, APOOO BookClub	2002-07-19
US	52960010	R1GOQHCP7HIKMY	0375505695	651609534	Married but Still Looking: A Novel (Strivers Row)	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Finding Ourselves	The Styles family consists of four grown children who are as different as night and day.  Genesis is a self-proclaimed player who can't help himself; Phyllis appears to hate the black man so she marries outside of her race; Grover, Jr., is a single father who is drug and alcohol addicted and Grace is the baby of the family who struggles with forgiveness while trying to bring her family back together and find peace within.  As you continue to read you will understand the root of their behavior.<br />From The Hearts of Men we are reintroduced to Prodigy and Nina, which is a treat.  The story centers on Genesis and his impending marriage to Terri.  Terri is everything that Genesis wants and needs in a woman but for some reason he can't stay faithful.  Each sibling has his or her share of drama in addition to Genesis, which gives the story its completeness and leaves you with a better understanding of the crosses they have to bare to get to a semi-happy medium.<br />Travis Hunter does an excellent job of portraying and developing his characters in a very realistic manner. I found myself caring about these characters and hoping for a resolution to their issues.<br />Married But Still Looking is quick, emotional and heartfelt read with a surprising ending, a very surprising ending!  I to enjoyed The Hearts of Men and I can't decide which book is better.  I've decided that it doesn't matter.......Reviewed by Dawn R. Reeves, APOOO Bookclub	2002-07-01
US	52960010	R1QXIADNX1HH53	1575669218	509017029	Perfect Timing (Dafina)	Books	5	15	16	N	N	Another Excellent One	Mya and Maxi forged their friendship in grade school.  Along the way came Christopher and Mya's love, Garrett.  Mya is a finance executive married to the professional athlete Garrett.  Maxi is the college professor who was Christopher's only friend during their school years. Because of a secret that Mya chose to keep right after high school graduation, her relationship with Maxi is strained. Feeling like the town pariah, Christopher leaves Savannah vowing never to return.  Ten years later, these four adults meet up at their class reunion cruise carrying their issues on board.<br />Perfect Timing gives you everything that a novel should offer:  excellent and surprising storyline, believable and somewhat humorous characters, friendships gone astray, infidelity, misunderstandings.........followed by thoughts of forgiveness coupled with the inability to forgive, redemption, trust and love.<br />Brenda Jackson is one my favorite romance authors and this is another excellent credit to her ever growing portrayal of the human psyche.<br /><br />Reviewed by Dawn R. Reeves<br />APOOO Bookclub	2002-06-19
US	52960010	R2E306WXWPSMVZ	0446530085	219114128	The Bondwoman's Narrative	Books	5	6	6	N	N	A Lesson In Research	The Bondswoman's Narrative is a history lesson in its own right but more than that, it is a somewhat detailed exploration into the process of authenticating a rare auction piece.<br />The story of Hannah Craft takes you from Virginia, Washington, D.C., North Carolina and New Jersey during mid-1850 through 1860.  This too is cause for a great discussion to authenticate when this piece was written.  Hannah references many prominent politicians throughout her manuscript and she delves into the heart and soul of the slaves; whether they are house slaves or field slaves.  Her exploits are interesting to say the least.<br />While her story is captivating, what is more engrossing is Gates' ability to demonstrate the originality of Hannah's story.  Utilizing professionals, Mr. Gates offers a detailed piece into the paper and ink used to write the manuscript to further drive home the point of when The Bondswoman's Narrative could have possibly been written. The reference to other literary pieces that Hannah cites throughout her work provides some needed proof that Hannah was somewhat educated, if not self-taught.<br />What I found most helpful while reading The Bondswoman's Narrative were the notes on text found in the appendixes.  To read and then reference proved insightful.  I am of the opinion that this is historical reading at its best.<br /><br />Reviewed by Dawn<br />APOOO Bookclub	2002-06-18
US	52960010	R2RO0SLTMYIUCF	0345447751	387971255	Back in the Day: My Life and Times with Tupac Shakur	Books	5	11	11	N	N	A Fresh Perspective	Tupac Shakur has always been interesting to me. A fellow book club member read, reviewed and praised this book, so immediately I was intrigued. Throughout the years I have read snippets of Tupac's life that also piqued my curiosity.  Much of what was written and portrayed prior to his death was the life of a thug rapper and little was written about his intelligence, his mind and his childhood.  Darrin Bastfield's book, Back In the Day: My Life and Times With Tupac Shakur is the book to read if you want a fresh perspective on Tupac, the child and the man he became.<br />Bastfield does an excellent job of portraying his life with Tupac and other friends during their days at the Baltimore School for the Performing Arts.  Through his portrayal we see a child raised in poverty literally; a child raised by a mother both weak and strong and a child forced to become a man much too soon.  Bastfield is mesmerized by Tupac's intelligence and his excellent skill at acting and so was I. He is surprised at Tupac's love of Shakespeare and so was I.<br />There is one additional book written about Tupac Shakur by a writer that I highly respect but Back In the Day is the beginning and is necessary because it sets the stage for all others to come.  Who better to write about Tupac's childhood than a childhood friend?  One more note: this brother can write!<br />Reviewed by Dawn R. Reeves<br />...	2002-06-06
US	52960010	R13OQXXP9PH2O9	0375504931	825047964	On Our Way to Beautiful: A Family Memoir	Books	4	7	7	N	N	With Grace!	Among the many churches and juke joints, Yolanda grew up in a deeply religious home amid poverty, family violence, and dreams deferred. Raised by women, who endured much heartache, Yolanda watched and questioned their strengths, which in turn allowed her to seek out her dreams; this is the memoir of Yolanda Young.  On Our Way to Beautiful, paints a poignant picture of her childhood in Shreveport, Louisiana.<br />At a very young age she witnessed the shooting of her mother by her father and struggled to understand her mother's forgiveness.  Through her great grandmother, Big Momma, Yolanda was able to at least come to terms with the hand she was dealt. Big Momma, along with her grandmother Honeymoon and her mother, provided a strong spiritual base for Yolanda and the entire family. We are given detailed information about this large family and its extended members and how they helped shape Yolanda. While the woman appear to be strong willed, the men come in an assortment of personalities and strengths from God fearing, athletic to almost timid and naïve.  They too lived off of the wisdom of the women in this family.<br /><br />Through vivid imagery, we are able to witness Yolanda and her classmates' integration into a junior high school on the other side of town; how Yolanda tries to make the best of the situation and her attempts to fit in.  Her mother....\\"Let me get this straight, you don't have a pot to...in or a window to throw it out of, but you want to put a forty-two-dollar shirt on your back?\\" \\"Don't try to dress like you've arrived until you do.\\"  \\"The novelty of being \\"in\\" was short-lived, especially after I discovered that being \\"in\\" didn't make you equal.\\"  I truly loved the wisdom that these women provided to a young Yolanda and by their grace and through the grace of God, this young woman was on her way.  .<br />With a very lyrical prose, On Our Way to Beautiful is peppered with metaphors and similes that will force you to stop and savor their meanings.  This is a touching, engaging and somewhat humorous account of one young girl's Southern life.  When I finished I was forced to ask myself how Yolanda succeeded in her endeavors.  I now know the answers to that question...This is a touching, engaging and somewhat humorous account of one young girl's Southern life.  When I finished I was forced to ask myself how Yolanda succeeded in her endeavors.  I now know the answers to that question...	2002-05-20
US	52960010	R20YX5EVWYWTJG	0375757058	188655040	Sittin' in the Front Pew: A Novel (Strivers Row)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Unconditional Love	Born and raised in Baltimore, Maryland, the Naylor girls are a group of sassy, in your face sisters.  They are the daughters of Edward Zachary Naylor, a strong, dependable pillar of his community.  Edward Naylor raised his four daughters to be strong and independent women after the tragic death of their mother.  One night Edward suddenly dies to the dismay of everyone.  But Edward had a secret and that secret is revealed prior to the funeral causing an uproar with everyone.  At a time when families should be allowed to grieve and rejoice simultaneously, in the devotion and accomplishments of a loved one, the Naylor sisters constantly battle about every detail of the funeral, even though Edward made his wishes known in a copy of his personal papers and his will.<br />I could devote several paragraphs to each daughter, for each has her own story to be told. But I will say this, each daughter has a unique personality and one is not like the other.  Their voices and behaviors leap off the page to the point that you may recognize them.  I know I did.  Renee, the oldest is the married mother of four.  Glynda resides in Los Angeles and is a lawyer.  Collette is a very successful financial planner with her own guilt to bear and Dawn is a single mom of one and a nurse.  Each daughter loved her father unconditionally and to say that his death was a shock is an understatement.<br />Sittin' In the Front Pew offers an array of emotions that I'm sure each reader can attest to in some way. I found myself laughing at the antics, grieving with the characters and rejoicing in their triumphs. The dialogue is realistic and moving because at the heart of Sittin' In the Front Pew is the depiction of a strong, male figure with frailties.  I also enjoyed the memories that the daughters, family members and friends shared about Edward.  It provided insight into the man himself.<br />I consider this novel an excellent club selection because there is a lot to be examined that only a discussion could accomplish.  KUDOS to Parry Brown for bringing it home!...n could accomplish.  KUDOS to Parry Brown for bringing it home!...	2002-05-13
US	52960010	R3TR9HF59ZXNZS	1585710598	352389952	Rivers Of The Soul (Indigo: Sensuous Love Stories)	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Truly Touching	Rivers of the Souls is a soul stirring love story. Antoinette &quot;Toni&quot; and Jerome were high school sweethearts who went their separate ways after high school and through fate, crossed each other's paths twenty years later. But was that love really lost or were Toni and Jerome just going through the motions?<br />Twenty years seems like a lifetime and things have changed tremendously with their families, friends and themselves.  While this story explores Toni and Jerome's emotions at the changes and needs in their lives, it also examines that of their friends and families.  Buddy and Snoop are Jerome's friends from back in the day and Val and Trace, while married respectively to the aforementioned, are friends of Toni.  Toni's father is remarried to meddlesome May and Toni's sister Adrienne is a free spirit living in Los Angeles.  The relationship between Toni, Adrienne and May is touched upon but you feel that there has to be more.  And of equal importance is Aunt Pearline who spouts her own brand of wisdom. The secondary characters are very important to this story as it gives the novel its completeness.<br />Leslie Esdaile has crafted a touching story utilizing metaphors, foreshadowing, detail, debates and loose ends to leave you hanging to await the sequel.  This is not a neatly packaged romance novel where everything is happily ever after because when completed, you have no idea what the future holds for the characters.  Excellent story!	2002-04-15
US	52960010	R1953GC4TJZ7E	0971227802	312521435	All About Mary: A Mick Hart Mystery	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Mary Was Quite Contrary	The novella, All About Mary, gives you just that, everything about Mary. Mary Jane Jenkins is a woman that lived hard for what she needed to survive.  A single mother of two young children, Mary used men just as they used her.<br />When the novella opens, we are introduced to the gruesome death of Mary and the arrest of her fiance'Perry Rogers.  Perry is the prime suspect and to the police department, it's an open and shut case.  However, private investigator Mick Hart does not see it that way and goes about tracking down Mary's killer at the request of Perry's mother.  Hart comes across a list of suspects each of whom had a personal interest in Mary.  Their interest ranged from lust, to like, to love.<br />Lawrence Christopher gives us a tale that is short but very complete.  We understand Mary and her plight because we are privy to her childhood and her adulthood pre-Perry.  I thoroughly enjoyed the comparison of butter to Mary's body; the chapter titles of some nursery school rhymes and song titles with references to \\"Mary\\".<br />This is very good murder-mystery that will make you shake your head just as you would have shaken some sense into Mary.	2002-03-31
US	52960010	RCJQM81WTLGBK	034544731X	530180711	Discretion	Books	4	6	6	N	N	What Is Discretion?	What is the price of passion?  According to Oufoula, discretion is the better part of valor.  Oufoula is an African man representing his country as an diplomat.  Oufoula is married to Nerida, the daughter of the President of his homeland.  Through his extensive travels, Oufoula meets and greets like-minded people; people interested in securing necessities for their homelands.  One evening the name Marguerite is mentioned and Oufoula is mesmerized.  He has dreamt about a woman named Margarete; the woman that Goethe's Faust sold his soul to the devil for.  When dreaming of Margarete, Oufoula is actually despising a past love by the name of Mulenga.  Oufoula is bound and determined not to let the love of someone destroy him as it did his mother.  To replace passion, he has his work for his country to contend with.  After meeting \\"the\\" Marguerite, Oufoula's life changes and love enters.  Can a man actually love two women for two totally different reasons at the same time?<br />Elizabeth Nunez has weaved an intricate tale of passion coupled with forbidden love at the expense of it all.  While the prose may appear typical, Discretion offers a look into the mind and history of man who has lost and gained much throughout his life.  Nunez takes the reader on a journey through Africa and New York City, setting in place the necessary landscape to embrace this story.  Many references are made of other literary works, which offer an insight into the minds of Oufoula and Marguerite.  Her characterizations are developed, symbolic and heartfelt!	2002-02-26
US	52960010	R2C5GPSBBHRLVI	0525946365	673219676	This Bitter Earth	Books	5	23	24	N	N	Just As Sweet As Sugar	Sugar Lacey left Bigelow, Arkansas ten years ago with a secret and to confront those that she felt had betrayed her. With a heavy heart and a wounded body, Sugar traveled to Short Junction, Arkansas and St. Louis in search of answers. When she left Bigelow she left clues for those that mattered. Were those clues found? Examining her trials and tribulations that she was born into, Sugar redeemed herself by nurturing a young girl just as she had been nurtured. The only thing left for Sugar to do was to return to Bigelow with the hope of finding peace within.<br />This Bitter Earth ties together the unanswered questions left behind with the ending of Sugar. The spirit of Sugar, Pearl and Joe remain vivid and with the additional information obtained about the other characters and their lives, the reader is brought full circled leaving an understanding of all that This Bitter Earth has to offer.<br />This Bitter Earth is told in a fluid and surreal language that will leave you mesmerized. The imagery used in the prose will take you within the Taylor home, the juke joint, down the dirt roads and through the fields of this rural town. Popular belief is that most sequels don't measure up to their predecessors but This Bitter Earth is just as sweet as Sugar.	2002-02-11
US	52960010	R2TSCCG5PNB1HP	1886388172	713014788	22 Friar Street	Books	5	61	61	N	N	Just What Is This Cycle of Life?	Imagine if you will a poor, inner city, Caucasian girl living with an elderly, middle class, childless black couple.  An aspiring college athlete accepts a basketball scholarship to the University of Maryland too late and there are no dorm rooms available.  Through a university program Peggy Margaret Dana is able to bunk at Doris and Martin Ellen's home for the semester.  What she and her surrogate parents learn are lessons in humility and unconditional love.<br />Peggy Dana never knew what it was like to be loved by a parent who set boundaries.  The product of a single parent home due to the death of her father, Peggy had it rough growing up.  Because her mother worked two jobs, she was expected to be the caretaker to her younger siblings and the children of her mother's boyfriend.  Bitter and depressed, Peggy's mother did not encourage her to attend college, was resentful of the fact that she did and was jealous of the relationship that she cultivated with the Ellens. Throughout Peggy's four years and beyond with the Ellens, she learns the true meaning of giving and accepting love.<br />Told through the voice of Peg some twenty-seven years later, we the reader are able to capture the spirit of Peg, the Ellens and their extend families.  The other characters that are sprinkled throughout add a flavor to this wonderful recipe that dabbles in race relations, joy and pain.  22 Friar Street is great coming of age story adequately examining the \\"Cycle of Life\\" and the \\"Ying and the Yang.\\" \\"It's all a cycle; the ultimate in life is giving, sacrificing for others.\\"  22 Friar Street will touch your soul and stay with you long afterwards.	2002-02-09
US	52960010	R3V07HOT0FLYKQ	0595187447	112983019	Saturday's Child	Books	5	13	13	N	N	An Offering of Love	Sara Livingston believes that love has nothing to do with her life; she doesn't have time nor the energy for it.  $aturday's Child can best be described as a bittersweet story of love, family relationships and friendships.<br />For sassy mouth Sara, a take charge, take no bull from anyone woman, life has been a roller coaster ride through hell and back.  For Sara daily survival is on her mind, not love.  When Theo Watkins enters her life through an introduction from his niece, Sara's world is turned upside down and Sara questions her initial thoughts of love.  Also entering her life at the same time is an ex-con name Franklin Santiago.  Franklin becomes obsessed with Sara but Theo proves to be her savior from much of the drama and from herself.  Even as Sara's life changes she continues to question whether or not she is deserving.<br />Gayle Jackson Sloan has penned a novel that is full of drama and unabiding love.  Jackson Sloan provides the reader with just enough family history that you come to understand the characters and their behavior. Who doesn't have family members like these people?  I know I could identify.  Every character possibly has a story to tell.  A nice touch is added when Jackson Sloan describes the homes of the inhabitants and the interior decorating schemes.  Shucks, you could learn a lot about decorating just from reading this book.  Also her use of the terminology Saturday's Child throughout the novel is symbolic in nature resulting in an ending that is very realistic.  This is a fast read that quickly draws you in at the beginning.  In addition to being a fast read it is also thought provoking, rich in dialogue and highly recommended.	2001-12-24
US	52960010	R2D0MJSBVUCJBG	0935312579	948670897	Daddy Was a Number Runner	Books	5	11	12	N	N	Some Ole' School Truths	Daddy Was A Number Runner provides a horrific historical and sociological picture of Harlem during the 1930's post-Renaissance era.  The reader travels throughout the daily trials and tribulations of Francie Coffin, an adolescent girl living with her brothers, mother and father, who is a number runner.<br /><br />Statistically we know of the crime, deviance, poverty, fatherless homes and emerging welfare system but what we do not read about is the human elements; the feelings involved.  Through Francie's own words and her dreams we are able to feel and capture Francie's plight.  While Francie appears to be somewhat naïve she is also able to navigate the streets and people within Harlem. Francie serves as an errand girl for her father, gets into scuffles with her friend and is a victim of molestation.  On the positive side she is an obedient daughter and sister, attends school and she loves to read.  For Francie, reading and attending movies at the theater is her salvation from the madness.<br />The book goes one step further to examine Black and Jewish relationships.  These relationships are presented in the form of tenant/landlord, student/teacher, customer/business owner and domestic/employer and in each, the black characters appear to be the victims.  While not harboring resentment towards Jews as a group, the characters demonstrate a dislike towards the individual because in each example the Black character is shown to be subservient towards the Jewish character for survival.<br />The characters portrayed are captivating and one of the books largest strengths is the ability of Meriwether to show some positive aspects of the inhabitants.  Through all of this despair we find love, kindness and support of family and neighbors, male pride, the importance of education, and compassion.  The word community resonates throughout this story and the women are the backbone of this community.<br />There is no happily ever after and everything is not neatly fixed at the conclusion for there is no conclusion.  What we have is Francie's acceptance of her life and her community but also her ability to still dream of a different life.  Meriwether has provided the reader with an assessment in the life of a small community but does not place blame on one entity. We, the reader, are able to empathize because Daddy Was A Number Runner offers a lesson in history that is relevant today. This is a story of family and the survival of it.usion for there is no conclusion.  What we have is Francie's acceptance of her life and her community but also her ability to still dream of a different life.  Meriwether has provided the reader with an assessment in the life of a small community but does not place blame on one entity. We, the reader, are able to empathize because Daddy Was A Number Runner offers a lesson in history that is relevant today. This is a story of family and the survival of it.	2001-11-27
US	52960010	RBJ50LC3LFHVX	0967550521	537047724	Whippins, Switches, & Peach Cobbler	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Some Ole School Discipline	Whippins, Switches and Peach Cobbler is a great coming of age story about Benny Dempkins. We watch Benny as a small child and his transformation into adulthood.  Along the way we are privy to Benny's shenanigans and his whippins.  We are also privy to the same discipline technique used on one of his neighbors and lack of discipline with one of his classmates.  What affect do these techniques have on Benny, his partner Ryan and his classmate Will?  What are their lives like as young men and adults?  How will they treat their own children?<br />We also get a large dose of his parents relationship and what affect Benny has on them.  Is this a boy that kept his parents marriage together?  We watch as Sheila, Benny's mother and Ronald, Benny's father, dole out strict discipline techniques but also offer their love and support of their son.<br />The family reunion theme appears to be prevalent throughout 2001 and one that is needed in these trying times.  What is demonstrated in Whippins, Switches and Peach Cobbler<br />is the family unit and how the extended family plays a big part in who we are and what we become. Spare the rod and spoil the child is a recurring theme throughout this novel and it definitely brings back memories, I am sure, of many of our childhoods.  This is very good novel offering many lessons.  The Peach Cobbler is to die for!	2001-11-17
US	52960010	RJ466NDZWX3XN	096746014X	957662051	Daughter by Spirit	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Touching!	Can a man and a woman have a platonic relationship based on mutual admiration and love?  You will have the answer to this question when you finish reading V. Anthony Rivers' Daughter by Spirit. Moving and touching can best describe this novel. The positive and negative elements of love, hope, friendship, jealousy and deceit are plentiful.<br />Christian and Maiya are both searching for love and someone to share it with.  Their paths cross but the timing isn't right.  Maiya accepts Christian as her friend and Christian admires Maiya for her fighting spirit. Together they form an emotional bond of friendship that no one can tear apart.<br />Maiya encounters turmoil in her life and makes an earth shattering decision.<br />Angelina, Maiya's daughter, is sixteen and has always believed that Christian was her father.  Angelina knows Christian through his poetry, articles, letters to her mother and through her mother's own words.  What occurs when Angelina finds the truth?  Will she continue to feel that spiritual connection to Christian?<br />This novel offers insight on love and friendship by forcing you to reflect on those that are most important to you.  The contexts of Christian's letters to Maiya empower and motivate and are often lyrical in nature.  The following is an example of this: \\"God placed me on a path of consciousness recently that united sincerity with determination and focus.\\"<br />Daughter By Spirit is quick and absorbing read that may have you discussing what you would have done in Maiya's shoes.	2001-10-19
US	52960010	R3F9AUIXSDW24L	0738863947	848604295	The List	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Sugar Ain't Sweet in Sugartree	The List, by Patti Flinn, is one of the most profound and suspenseful books I have read. The List is a very poignant story filled with incest, evil, hate and color issues. Set in the small, southern town of Sugartree, the natives and other inhabitants must deal with the rich and powerful Beauville family.<br />The Beauville family had curses placed upon them four-generations ago but the current generation, while not outwardly believing in the curses, secretly harbors their fears of them.<br />The List is the story of four young men that must marry young women placed on &quot;the list&quot; by the twenty-first birthday of the youngest son, Leonard. Throughout the story, you are wondering why would Pierre Beauville, their father, place such a stipulation in his will. It is not until the end that you realize the list's significance and that revelation will have your mouth gaped.<br />Francois, Rene', Gerard and Leonard Beauville are four young men with deep-rooted issues from the past. You come to learn through a historical picture their lives as children and the lives of their ancestors. When the dust clears, after all hell breaks loose, you will be amazed at the result. The four young women they choose to marry have stories of their own and thus they are highlighted as main characters also and you have to love Grandma Dudyen! I had to make a family tree of this clan to follow the story but in the end it provided for a very absorbing read.<br />Told with clarity, The List is an engaging novel with a crazed proposition. Excellent and highly recommended!	2001-09-24
US	52960010	R222X61B9LFDMZ	0399147845	384174271	What You Owe Me	Books	5	15	17	N	N	Classic Revenge	When you look at this book you may gawk at the length but as you read you will forget about the size and be mesmerized by the story.  What You Owe Me is the story of Hosanna Clark and Gilda Rosenstein.  One black, one Jewish, both determined to become successful businesswomen at the end of World War II.  Hosanna has the desire while Gilda has the formulas to form a cosmetic company.<br />Fast forward to Matriece \\"Triesey\\" Carter, she is the daughter of Hosanna.  Matriece makes it her personal mission to avenge what she believes is Gilda's betrayal of her mother.  This is done at the expense of her relationships with others.<br />There are many other characters with their own stories.  Campbell weaves this tale so that everything and everyone's story has closure and just maybe a little too \\"happily ever after\\".  You have Vonette, Matriece's sister, and her Mexican brood who was not interested in Hosanna's dreams. Uncle Tuney, Hosanna's brother, and his decades-long litigation against a Texas magnate to regain his family's land. Blair, Matriece's friend from the old neighborhood who \\"made it\\".  Mooney, Hosanna's financial \\"backer\\".  The Montgomery family, a rhythm and blues star, Gilda's children and a host of other characters.  There is more to say about the characters and their stories but to do that would give the story away and this is must read from a fabulous author.<br />I enjoyed how the book opened and ended with the voice of Hosanna.  She boldly claims \\"closure is what I'm seeking.  Death ain't nothing but another opportunity.\\"  What You Owe Me should appeal to all because demonstrated are relationships across racial and economic lines and also some classism within a class.  Campbell demonstrates that money can not buy happiness and love but love of family, despite material wealth, can bring so much joy.<br />This is an excellent selection for any reading group, as it would provide a lively and lengthy discussion. This is a moving account of betrayal, love and healing.and healing.	2001-08-12
US	52960010	R28E3Z8UM02T51	0380977338	622869821	I Wish I Had a Red Dress	Books	4	4	4	N	N	I Think I Need That Red Dress	Is the red dress a symbol of freedom, chances taken, or womanhood?  You'll have to read to find out.  In Pearl Cleage's latest installment and what I assumed was a follow up to What Look Likes Crazy On An Ordinary Day, the focus is on Joyce Mitchell, Ava's older sister.  This is not a sequel to Crazy; this is Joyce's story.<br />The setting takes place in Idlewind, Michigan, once a resort town for the black elite, now a dilapidated small town with all the ills of the inner city.  Joyce Mitchell is a woman who has experienced much loss through death.  She is social worker who directs a community program for teenage mothers.  She attempts to teach the members to be &quot;free women&quot;.  Again, you'll have to read it to understand.  She also is a surrogate mother to the members.  At the same time Nate Anderson (vice principal of the local high school) comes into her life and breaks down her barriers of having a relationship.  This is not an easy task because Joyce flip-flops between not needing his help and needing his help.  She becomes angry when she feels that men are not stepping up to the plate, but the men in her circle feel that she doesn't want them or any man involved with her &quot;free woman&quot; message.<br />The story is written in many short chapters that will keep you  turning the pages.  There is some tragedy that is overcome and  learning that takes place among all the participants.  A quick and descriptive read with characters that are full of themselves.	2001-08-06
US	52960010	R17PV8RHIEYYH5	0446530522	77058110	Cane River (Oprah's Book Club)	Books	4	8	8	N	N	A History Lesson	Though not a reader of historical accounts, Cane River was a wonderful read.  I was amazed at how the behavior of light versus dark was pass downed through the three generations of women, Suzette, Philomene and Emily.  What is more amazing is that this stereotype is perpetuated today.  Each woman learned many lessons of their behavior but insisted on their children repeating these behaviors at the expense of their mentality.  All three generation of women were calculating in their choices and needs and in their own way, were good mothers.  One theme that was evident was family.  The copies of documents and pictures of Tademys ancestors were very helpful in visualizing those times.<br />This was a learning tool in that it taught this reader about the French Creole life and was a history lesson.  An easy read that captivated the reader from the first page to the last.  I will definitely read more on this group of people.	2001-07-31
US	52960010	R13NOZ2U6IA1NU	0060184760	251599419	The Justus Girls	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Just Us in the end	Upon opening this book you get the feeling that one of the four friends is murdered and no one knows who did it; no one can believe it.  As you continue to read you realize that each friend has a story to be told.<br />The Justus Girls is the story of four friends coming of age in the 60s.  Four friends involved in a drill team as children; four friends with their own distinct childhood.  I liked that each alternating chapter told pieces of each girl's/woman's story from childhood through adulthood.  Four friends with secrets and shame.  Four friends with their own personalities and when one dies the remaining realize that they have not been there for each other.  As they set out to discover who killed their friend they rediscover each other.<br />There are characters that you absolutely love and characters that you hate.  There are mini stories told here but they are all necessary to understand who the Justus Girls really are.<br />This story is wonderful and when the killer is revealed the reader will be surprised.  Slim, my hats off to you.  The descriptions of Philly and the neighborhoods were on point.  This is a well-written story of true friendship and ties that bind.	2001-07-16
US	52960010	R291XTUDWKHMUW	0970862032	883480457	My Brother's Keeper	Books	5	10	10	N	N	Forgive and Be Free	The story of the James family takes us into their world of despair, domestic violence, anger and hatred.  As the book opens you are exposed to a tragic act of violence that will haunt the children into adulthood.<br />Aja, the oldest takes on the responsibility of being her brother and sister's keeper at the expense of her own needs.  Aja was so concerned about Eric's need for help that she didn't realize that she too had a need for help.  The one theme that struck this reader was Aja placing blame on her brother's behavior on the father.  While that may have been the case to a certain degree, Eric needed to let it go to heal. Little sister Jada is the one that helped all to realize that to forgive is to be free. And Roxanne, aka Roxie, was funny as all get out and provided some much needed humor and insight for Aja.<br />The one lesson learned and overall message was to forgive and overcome hatred or it can destroy you and your relationships. You will learn something about forgiveness with this one.	2001-07-12
US	52960010	R182BXYQQLE0NY	0767907078	676796668	Dark: A Novel	Books	5	1	1	N	N	From Good to Dark	The story of Thai Williams takes the reader from Washington DC to Charlotte, NC. The story of young, employed black male recently graduated from high school with ambitions of attending college.  We watch as Thai commits a murder in the heat of passion at the persuasion of his friends and his male ego.  We watch as Thai tries to come to terms with his crime.  Thai tries to make sense of his past, present and finally his future.  Kenji Jasper takes us into the mind of Thai as he attempts to justify his actions and that of others.  Throughout the book you realize that Thai could never answer the important questions, he always had someone else answer them for him.<br />Jasper's writing style was simplistic in that the book flowed for the reader.  We also come to understand the other characters in the book, such as his closest friends, parents and even the absentee mothers and the profund affect they had on Thai.<br />At nineteen, this was young man that rarely traveled beyond his DC neighborhood with the exception of the occasional trip to a party in another DC neighborhood or a suburb of Maryland.  Traveling to Charlotte opened up an entirely new world for him.  A world that he was uncomfortable in because he was not exposed to other possibilities. Trouble did however find Thai in Charlotte and as one saying goes-if you keep doing the same thing in the same way, you get what you always got.<br />I truly enjoyed how the book opened because it was an invitation to read on.  With the ending this reader was left wondering what became of Thai but I did not find the lack of closure a disappointment.<br />Great reading material for young and old; highly recommended for the young.	2001-07-09
US	52960010	RAY4WJJBRURHS	0525946039	149958128	Between Lovers	Books	5	12	13	N	N	Obsessive Love	The narrator is left at the altar and discovers that his would be bride has another partner.  Surprise-the partner is a woman.<br />This book is not a typical romance or contemporary fiction where you have a lover's triangle. This triangle involves a man and two women; One of the main character's wants both lovers.  One of those lovers wants to complete the triangle thus making a circle.  Another surprise, it is not who you would assume.  What is so intriguing about this novel is that it is a deep, psychological look into sexuality and how some may question their own identity. With this novel you have betrayal, jealousy, deceit and self-discovery.  Also, material wealth comes into play in the form of self-promotion.<br />You want to dislike one of the main characters, Nicole, because at first glance she is spoiled, hypocritical and selfish.  But for some reason you cannot dislike her.  I found myself cheering on the narrator wishing that he would come out the winner.  In the end he was a winner.  The feelings are also explored of the secondary characters such as the parents and friends of the main characters.  Those secondary characters provide some insight into the behavior of your major players.<br />I've only read Sister, Sister, Cheaters and Friends and Lovers and was surprised at the level this book took on.  It was not what I expected.<br />This reader is in awe!  KUDOS!!!!!!!!!!!!!	2001-07-03
US	52960010	R27SXRPXH6O2QJ	0967602807	528703759	Satin Doll	Books	5	1	3	N	N	The Around the Way Girls	A story of one side of track meeting and falling in love with other side of the track.  Regina led a hard knock life and pulled herself up and moved on up.  However, she did not forget where she came from as she continued to live in both worlds.  When the two worlds collide, fireworks begin.<br />Charles, her nemesis turned lover, turned husband was as assuming as they come along with his mother.  I absolutely lover Reverend Whitfield and Momma Tee.  Regina's homegirls were more like her sisters in that they were there for each other and like real life the green-eyed monster did rear his ugly head.<br />The characters were portrayed realistically!  There are others worlds out there other than our own, so the possibility does exist.  The surprise for me was that the ending was not predictable.  We can read other genres for predictable endings.  This was not disappointing.  I cheered Regina as she stood by her decision.<br />I will read the hard cover version, as it will have 50 additional pages.  Hmmmm, I wonder what could be in those 50 additional pages.<br />Karen, great book and this will go down as one of my favorite and funniest reads.  Yes, the escapades of the women, especially Regina, were hilarious and Puddin's mouth, welllllllll.  There was a message in all this madness!  KUDOS	2001-06-23
US	52960010	RQ9WYPK1FJM6Y	0967554675	503712582	The Hearts of Men	Books	5	2	2	N	N	An Inside Look At the Hearts of Men	We can only assume what the heart a man may hold. Never do we really know because they are not as forthcoming. The Hearts of Men made me smile, laugh out loud, gasp and cry. This was truly a touching story.<br /><br />The characters were portrayed so realistically that you could see glimpses of folks in your life. The novel centered on the lives of three generations of men, none related by blood but related by manhood. Poppa Doc, with his wisdom of life and responsibilities, was my favorite. He touched all their lives in a very profound way. Bernard, a son, husband and father who thought he was doing the right things but unable to see his ways were helping to destroy his marriage. I felt his pain and was overjoyed that he was able to fight through his pain. And finally we have Prodigy (a unique name). Prodigy, who has been there, done that, was able to open his heart to a child and his child. Prodigy came full circle to finally find peace and happiness.<br /><br />Travis Hunte!r writes with so much enthusiasm and realism that this was a quick read with many messages that you cannot help but heed. Good job!	2001-06-17
US	52960010	RMNVWNYTLVN9Q	0688176992	469204683	Finding Fish: A Memoir	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Uninvited to Invited	Antwone Quenton Fisher, you have done a wonderful job of telling your life story!  The story of Fish was both sad and joyful.  The story of a boy abandoned to the child welfare system upon birth not knowing whom he was nor where he came from.<br />This story was sad in that Antwone faced so many hardships at a young age by so many adults that it was repulsive.  A child welfare system with so much staff turn over, no one knew Fish or his story.  A system that is charged with protecting children that they didn't follow up on their suspicions.  A system that is so reactive as opposed to proactive.<br />Fish would finally come into his own to find joy if not so much forgiveness.  Along the way there were a few good hearted adults-his teacher (I clapped for her), his final child welfare worker (good advice given), the military personnel and Todd Black.  These adults believed in Fish and he took their advice and made a good life for himself and his family.<br />My favorite was the reunion with his family.  I was so pleased that they accepted him as their nephew without reservations.  What was sad to me was that Fish was so near to them but yet so far, unbelievable!  Finally, Fish coming to terms (if only limited) with the realization of his mother's life and her life as a young teenage mother.<br />The novel was written simplistically and gripping enough that you could feel Fish's pain and his joy. Kudos to Fish as you continue to showcase your talents. I recommend this novel to everyone, young, old, black, white, red and brown	2001-06-16
US	52960010	R30K1UNBDWTDBV	0380811308	150038577	Skin Deep	Books	5	6	8	N	N	WOW	When I picked this book up I thought it was another romance book which I have begun to read again. While reading I realized that this book was more than that.  Skin Deep has romance, intrigue and drama.  The storyline is not predicatable and the questions that I had throughout were not easily answered until the end.  Kathleen Cross has done a wonderful job with this book.  How can she top this?<br />Nina, the story's center, was outwardly comfortable with her bi-racial make-up but inwardly she was confused and had every right to be.  Too many secrets were being kept from her.  I enjoyed the romance between Nina and Ahmad and was glad to see it play itself out.  Ahmad was a stand up type of guy and a blessing for his daughter Ebony.  Ahmad was betrayed throughout his life but came out on top.  Nina's best friend Tonya was a true friend indeed and was the most humorous of them all. All the characters portrayed are believable which makes this book very captivating.<br />There are so many twists and turns in this book that it's hard to categorize and hard to put down (one day to read).  My favorite sections are Rasheed and his poetry (deep) and Ahmad's determination to have Nina as his wife. He never gave up!<br />Excellent job!	2001-06-10
US	52960010	R1FC0ABH0RNZRJ	0965568229	734692997	Walking The Line	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Thought Provoking	I wish they had a 4.5 rating because in my opinion this book was exactly that.  It took me all of one day to read; this page turner!  During the first chapter my thoughts were that this book was simplistic and for young adults.  As I continued to read I realized that many questions about life choices were revealed.<br />Charis, a senior in college, has many decisions to make-do I pledge the sorority that my great-grandmother founded; do I go to law school as expected; do I move to New York or Washington as my friends wish; do I forgive and see this triflin' man that broke my heart again, do I squeal on my sosority sisters.  It was almost too much for one person to bear.  Life choices, how do we choose?  Am I making the correct decision?<br />Ms. Hughes was able to draw the reader into Charis' world and make this reader reflect back to my college days, my pledge process and the after affects.  I found myself asking &quot;why did I pledge?&quot;  &quot;What were my motivations, expectations?&quot;  This book also touched on some of the class issues within the AA community. Also, the portrayal of the secondary characters, parents, relatives, friends and other students, was great.<br />I recommend this book to current college students, college-bound students and us ole' school folks who have been there.  Good work Ms. Hughes!	2001-06-03
US	52960010	R1SLGCYBX2CI4L	1583141308	963702103	Through the Fire (Arabesque)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Excellent	During the month of May 2001 I began to read the romance novels of Donna Hill.  This is the fifth novel of Donna Hill that I have read this month.  This third installment, which started with A Private Affair, was simply wonderful and on point.  Throughout the three novels involving Quinn, Nikkita, Maxine and then Rae.  I prayed that Quinn would find peace within himself and come into his own.  I was not disappointed.<br />Though the Fire explored Quinn's deeply hidden emotional issues and his ability to either deal with them or not.  I truly enjoyed his love affair with Rae, a very strong and committed woman with her own baggage. This is story of two people who lost loved ones and their guilt behind it all.  The secondary characters were truly wonderful in that they assisted in seeing Quinn and Rae through their baggage.  This was a perfect ending to some very complexed characters and it was a treat to see it all come to fuition.  I will definitely read more by Donna Hill!<br />A Fan for Life!	2001-05-28
US	52960010	R2DQBXI0EK1XZN	1575666294	936862999	It's A Thin Line	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Between Love &amp; Hate	This fourth novel of KLR introduces us to Sydney, Gina and Rick; sibling that are close but oh so different and their mother Delores.  The story reveals issues of domestic violence, sexual molestation, parent care and fear of commitment.  It's almost sad that one family had to endure so much pain and heartache.<br />KLR writes this story with so much ease to the reader that you can only cheer them on as they battle their latest drama.  The story was so realistic that you could feel their pain and triumphs.  This book made this reader stop and think &quot;what if&quot;, &quot;what would I do&quot;.  I believe that books should be read  for entertainment, learning and last but not least, must be thought provoking.  This had all of the above.<br />I enjoyed this story and many blessing to Kimberla as she continues to entertain her readers with such real stories from the heart.	2001-05-26
US	52960010	R2BM0XKC22W9SP	0812574567	719442305	Dark Secret	Books	5	3	3	N	N	The Grass Isn't Always Greener	The book is one of intrigue and subtle romance.  Atkins Bowman is a gifted storyteller.  This book is a page turner providing many twist and turns throughout.  Just when you thought you had someone figured out another family member pops up with their own hidden secret.  Camille, aka Sharlene thought she had it all figured out and thought the world was a better place on the other side, NOT!<br />Atkins Bowman provided many thought provoking scenes and scenes that made the reader gasp.  Near the conclusion you understood Sharlene's mother's treatment of her even if you didn't agree with her actions. Everyone and I mean everyone had a secret.  The Stone family was as dysfuntional as they come.  Great story!	2001-05-12
US	52960010	RDRUT7JIXEY89	0786001488	887410885	Scandalous (Arabesque)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Yes, Scandalous	This is the first book that I have read by Donna Hill and after reading it I will definitely read more by her.  This story was one of intrigue and while some areas were predictable others were not and were down right Scandalous.<br />Vaughn and Justin's love affair was one of true love with trust and distrust knocking at the same time.  I could feel Vaughn's pain, anguish and confusion, but I could also feel her need for love from Justin.  Justin was her knight in shining armor and he truly loved Vaughn.  He helped release her pain of the past and taught her how to love again.  Reading about Elliot, Vaughn's father, helped this reader understand Vaughn.  Vaughn lived her father's dream at the expense of her own.  Poppa Elliot was as ruthless as they come and I was totally surprised by his actions. Her mother Sheila, was a typical politician's wife who assisted in keeping secrets at the expense of her daughter's love and devotion.<br />Donna Hill writes very descriptively and you can see and feel the emotions with every turn of the page.  The storyline was great with enough drama to keep your interest until the end.  Now I'm ready to begin A Scandalous Affair.  I loved this book and it will go down as one of my favorite reads.	2001-05-06
US	52960010	R22MMO2E4XKX76	0525945687	662398497	Four Guys and Trouble	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Funny, Funny, Funny	I've always enjoyed reading about male friendships and this book was very funny and at times thought provoking. We have Dexter-trying to do the right thing but not exactly enjoying it; Ibn-the classic fine brotha with his demented views of women; Mike-the good guy until......; Colin-the doormat (I found myself praying that he would see the light); and finally Bunches-who taught the guys a few things about the opposite sex. This book will make you laugh at some of their shenanigans. I had a hard time putting it down to do the necessary things in life.  I had to know how it ended.  However, I did find myself wondering about Mrs. Truitt because there was no  mention of her after her departure. Although I found it to be a funny and appealing book, it did enlightened me to some of the thoughts, hopes and dreams that men have.  Get this for a quick and lighthearted read! Oh-Tiffany, way to go, LOL!	2001-05-02
US	52960010	R1WP72BFDF87RY	1583141766	826823470	Until There Was You (The Graysons, Book 1)	Books	4	8	8	N	N	Great Follow Up	This book was a great follow up to Break Every Rule.  I was intrigued by Luke Grayson and Catherine Stewart.  I was somewhat surprised by the amount of dramatic issues in this book but it only added some suspense.  I truly enjoyed how the entire Falcon clan and Taggert clan was included in the conclusion.  Ms. Ray's writing style is very descriptive without being overbearing and you can actually visualize the place and time.  Excellent writing.  While this book was truly about Catherine and Luke, adding Dominique and Trent to the mix with their issues was great.  Oh, Mama Grayson is one of kind!.. Good job!	2001-04-21
US	52960010	R2YVT782IDKPOA	0786005440	12903057	Break Every Rule (Arabesque)	Books	4	3	4	N	N	I Forgot What I Was Missing	This is the second book that I have read by Francis Ray, the other was Heart of the Falcon.  It has been a long time since I read Francis Ray and it was suggested that I start again with this one.  I loved it!  Dominique was tough and resilient and downright stubborn; Trent was caring with his own baggage.  The Falcon clan, they are too much!  There to the rescue at the drop of a hat.<br />I do enjoy Ms. Ray's writing style.  Her words flow without providing too much complication or muddled thoughts on the part of her characters.  I will continue to read more and hopefully I will not stop for a few years and begin again.  Now I know what I have missed!	2001-04-18
US	52960010	R2J5PBM7TXS8ZP	0385491239	789053456	Only Twice I've Wished for Heaven	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Great Storyteller	Dawn Turner Trice is a great storyteller.  She was able to make this reader visualize the surroundings and the characters' emotions.  I loved the relationship between Temmy and Jonetta.  Jonetta was able to guide and protect Temmy with her recollections of the past and her dreams for the future.  The other characters, Alfred Mayes, Judd, Fat Daddy, Chittlin', Hump, Reatha Mae, Felicia, Thomas, Aunt Jennie and Ms. Lily were definitely characters and left nothing to the imagination. However, I must say that I expected more drama from reading the jacket cover.  Certain portions were not explored and left this reader asking questions.  For example, Temmy's friend Gerald saying he had a secret about her father but it was never revealed and Temmy's father ignoring her while he was talking with one of his students.  These two incidents were never explained and it left the reader wondering.  Some of the happenings in the book were predictable-City Hall's actions and Valeries' secret.  The newspaper article grabbed my attention but then the story slowly played itself out.  All-in-all I did enjoy this book.  Dawn Turner Trice is great at telling a story!	2001-04-13
US	52960010	R3R5KFGO3CJIW8	0380805790	411774905	Until...	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Smooth Flowing, Quick Read	This is the first book that I have read by Tim McCann and I can say that I will read another one.  I found this book to be an easy read that made you stop and think about life and the love within your life.  I thought that each character was developed enough for the reader to understand their issues, even the secondary characters.  You understood Betty's hesitation when it came to relationships with the opposite sex; you understood Jacqui's harsh attitude towards men and you felt for Drew and his lose.  Not too much suspense but why does there have to be?  Some of the old school quotes from the parents were classic-&quot;You get what you got&quot;.  Some of Jacqui's reasonings were very funny! Great!	2001-04-02
US	52960010	R1O8YN75074J4M	0684873524	544986125	Resurrecting Mingus	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Powerful	This debut novel from Jenoyne Adams is very powerful.  It exposed the emotions of bi-racial children as children and as adults.  My understanding of children of a bi-racial union was increased through the reading of this novel.  I never realized how truly hard it must be at times to be a product of that type of environment. Add divorce to the mix and you have a pot full of mixed emotions.<br />Each child was a best friend with one parent and disrespected the other for reasons all their own and understandably so. Mingus was gem in that she cared more for others and their feelings than her own; even her &quot;evil, jealous and pitful&quot; sister, Eva.  Each character had a voice and a reasoning behind their madness.<br />Ms. Adams words are written very eloquently and they flow through the pages to help you understand and picture the characters' fears and hurts.  This novel was very, very good.  I finished hoping that Mingus found true happiness with herself.  I felt sorry for Mingus because she truly had everyones best interest at heart with the exception of her own.  This novel demonstrated rediscovery of self.  POWERFUL!	2001-03-26
US	52960010	RVVHOPRGN2H5O	0375756590	489907150	The Shirt off His Back: A Novel (Strivers Row)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Lets Hear It For the Boys	This was a great book, a quick read and the message was very clear, although I never had my doubts.  Parry Brown exposed the ruthlessness of women with this one-Ms. Catherine Hawkins, unbelievable!  The word family and love describe this book to the T.  The friendships and love between Terry, Roland, Jackie and Cedes was enjoyable.  The children helped shaped their parents and the parents did an excellent job of raising them.  Momma C and Teresa were excellent mothers and their childrens' rock.  Love of self and of others is the one emotion that can sustain us in times of trouble.  Good job Parry Brown!	2001-03-22
US	52960010	R1TP3EHJ9LPSHD	0380805855	178421605	Passing	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Are These People for Real!	The light skinned/dark skinned saga was always fascinating to me and this book was no different.  This book about classism is a good read featuring Mrs. Eulelie Giles.  Mrs. Giles was ruthless in her treatment of her children and the people around her but she had a lot of gull.  My one disappointment was not exposing Eulelie to others.  However I was amazed that her secret was known to more folks than she knew.  This was an excellent twist and it explained Gil's questions and comments throughout the book.  Patricia Jones' writing style is one that is picturesque; I could see and feel the landmarks of Baltimore. Some portions were rather drawn out and I was shouting &quot;get to it&quot;. The children were spoiled, obnoxious and so unreal.  Camilla Hightower was a bright light that I found myself cheering on! I was glad that Sandra found true happiness. I hope that people like them do not exist today but I know that's not the  case.  Good Subject matter and good job Ms. Jones.	2001-03-10
US	52960010	R1RQ69JIRWJJ6H	1575664895	824287693	Casting The First Stone	Books	4	3	3	N	N	A Page Turner	Casting was a page turner for this reader.  Kimberla is fast becoming one of my favorite writers.  Her writing style is easy to read and message was so clear, we do tend to worship the messenger and money and power is the root of all evil.  The characters were portrayed very realistically.  This was quick read because I needed to know what Curtis's problems were. Closure was needed and it was there!	2001-03-02
US	52960010	R2DR65FI627WZA	0525945318	418423294	Sugar: A Novel	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Sugar, Sugar, Sugar	Sugar will go down as one of my all-time favorite reads!  Bernice McFadden is excellent.  As she tells this story this reader felt like she was there seeing, tasting and smelling everything that was written.  McFadden has a way with words.  To read this you would never know that this was a first novel. It is both a sad and joyful story.  I can definetly see a sequel to this.  Closure is needed for the reader but also for Joe, Pearl, Seth, Shirley and yes, Sugar. Sugar lived her life the only way she knew how and she was truly a product of her environment. I was disappointed that Sugar left Bigelow because I could see her transforming herself into a loving, giving and caring person.  EXCELLENT piece.	2001-02-17
US	52960010	R2WXJTPLKEUGCI	0688177891	782880862	Blues Dancing	Books	5	4	5	N	N	A Great Love Story	I truly loved this book and McKinney-Whetstone's very lyrical words and developed characters.  This story of love, betrayal and reuniting with a lost love kept me enthralled.  Some of the plot endings were predictable (Sage) and some were not (Rowe).  Verdi was very dependent on men (Johnson, Rowe and Leroy), Rowe was pompous (the nerve of him) and Kit was an &quot;around the way girl&quot;, LOL.  The twins were interesting, however the relationship between and Posie and Leroy was left unresolved and the hint as to whether Verdi and Kitt were actually sisters was not complete. Hm, could another novel be in the works to resolve these issues?  I say go for it!  The writer took us back twenty years and beyond for the reader to understand the characters' behaviors.  This will be on my list as an all time favorite! Go Diane!	2001-01-27
US	52960010	R1B1TSDWX1MGW0	0670896764	838594392	A Day Late and a Dollar Short	Books	5	12	15	N	N	I Loved It	Okay, Terry is back and she hit the nail on the head with this one.  YO GO GIRL!  I truly enjoyed this book.  The family members will make scream, holler and shout.  They were so real and alive.  We all know folks like them or maybe we can see ourselves as one of them. The family ties were immensely portrayed.  I so no predjudice.  Terry can tell this story, our story, her story, not many can. I could definitely relate.  This would be a good movie if all were included.  No changes allowed!  Ms Vy was something but she only wished the best for her children and she didn't mind telling them in life and in ............. EXCELLENT JOB TERRY	2001-01-22
US	52960010	R1ECOYNFT9DG3	0609605836	299264177	Nappily Ever After: A Novel	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Kept my interest	&quot;Nappily&quot; was entertaining!.  However, the characters of Venus and Khandi worked my nerves.  Both were shallow and had agendas. A lot of time was spent on Venus and her &quot;finding herself&quot; which is what we need to do from time to time, but so much time was devoted to this.  We were privy to the main characters' thoughts which was an insight into each of them.<br />The book's opening left you &quot;hanging&quot;.  I surprised by the ending.  I give the writing a four (which is what reviews are about?).  I was not bored!	2001-01-14
US	52960010	R1822BOJ04D3XD	0312264844	166096163	Butterscotch Blues	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Emotional	This is first book that I read by Margaret Johnson-Hodge and I enjoyed it.  This book is very emotional and will have you questioning what you would do in Sandy's situation.  I had three crying episodes!  I found it ironic that Sandy did the exact opposite of what Adrian did to his ex-wife (leaving).  This book could have been four novels with each of the female characters telling her story.  The book was a page turner, somewhat predictable behavior but a good read.  I enjoyed the many characters with all their &quot;issues&quot; and their ways of resolving  them.	2001-01-13
US	52960010	R39DBVJ8OPLUVM	0964367505	365114013	Men Cry in the Dark	Books	4	0	1	N	N	Good Read	This book answered it for me.  Men go through the trials and tribulations within relationships just as women do.  The one possible difference-we tell all!  This book was realistic-four brothers owning their own businesses, who all happen to be friends.  I guess you surround yourself with &quot;like&quot; people.  What so strange about that?<br />As for streotyping the &quot;sistas&quot;, please, we women do it all the time.  If the shoe doesn't fit, don't wear it.  I thought the charactersation was &quot;real&quot;, the storyline &quot;real&quot; and the ending good.  I knew that Angela would take him back, WRONG!  GOOD JOB and very ENTERTAINING!	2001-01-07
US	52960010	R3M0ASBYQS3MHJ	0312267932	658864060	When All Hell Breaks Loose	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Entertaining	Very entertaining.  I felt for Greg and found him refreshing; loathe his mother but she was the only one who peeped what was going on; pitied his father but cheered him at the same time for being a strong man; cheered for Adrian until her lies and plots were discovered; found her parents strange until I knew what they knew; found Greg's friends true to life and hilarious!  This book was funny but half-way through I knew what the deal was.  However, with that said, the ending was great!  This is a fast-paced and funny read.	2001-01-07
US	52960010	R3TDNQWSKHRBA9	0385469683	898962637	Invisible Life: A Novel	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Oh My	This book was recommended to me by a friend.  I was very leary at first but I thought I'd take a chance.  I enjoyed the book, although I found it to be very graphic.  I like the fact that it was somewhat open-ended.  It left reader wanting more.  I have continued to read all of Mr. Harris' novels and I enjoyed all of them.  Some are better than others. But one thing that is a sure bet-Basil Henderson is the central figure with many issues that leave this reader, at least, wanting to know more.  My hats off to Mr. Harris because I was truly reluctant.	2001-01-05
US	52960010	R16SLS010ICUQ7	0671025368	758176148	The Coldest Winter Ever	Books	5	0	1	N	N	Wow	I purchased this book as a stocking stuffer for my teenage daughter.  She ask and I thought &quot;great, the child wants to read contemporary fiction&quot;.<br />I truly enjoyed this book.  Sister Souljah did an excellent job of making her characters so alive....so real.  The message was very clear.......that type of business always ends in tragedy for all involved and for the innocent ones. What goes up will definitely come down. However, I was surprised that this book didn't have a fairy tale ending-Winter and Bullet lived happily ever after.  Great ending.  This is must read for all and I mean all.	2000-12-30
US	52960010	RQDR4NVL9ITBS	0965904210	691739867	Beyond Our Mothers Footsteps	Books	4	1	3	N	N	Great Sequel	Will there be a third part?  I truely enjoyed the story lines in both Ms. James' books.  &quot;Beyond&quot; explored the girls' as adults several years after college.  It answered the question of the rift between Barb, Debra, Catherine and Marilyn.  It also explored the backround of their male counterparts.  It was amazing to me that Debran and Della were Ms. Mattie's children.  Excellent writing! We still do not know who Lisa's father is and at this point it does not matter.  Maybe I missed who Lisa's mother was (Debra or Della). But I do have one question for Ms. James-who was Caleb Arvell?  In &quot;Secrets&quot; Ms. Mattie was on target.  In &quot;Beyond&quot; it was Debra. She was a BAD woman.  She made sure that all sinners paid their dues.  GREAT JOB!	2000-12-24
US	52960010	R384S4D2LNK2YB	0385498241	648980228	Not a Day Goes By: A Novel	Books	3	4	4	N	N	The others were better	I rated this book by E. Lynn Harris as average.  I did enjoy it but compared to the previous four, this one was okay.  I love the way E. Lynn Harris inter-connects his characters with sequal like theme.  I was glad when Basil's problem was exposed.  His behavior made a lot of sense.  I guess he will be on the prowl again hurting and destroying another life.  He met his match with Miss Yancey. Miss Yancey is another story entirely.  Her mother was the master manipulator. Basil's one desire, conquering Raymond Tyler, adds an unsettled edge to Basil.	2000-12-21
US	52960010	R2Z9K21YDRYFSZ	0965904202	892118460	Sister Secrets	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Brought Back Memories	I found this book to very good.  However, I am of the opinion that you must be a member of sorority or fraternity to understand the pledge process, the ball, etc. I found the book very difficult to put down because the storyline kept me intrigued.  I really enjoyed Ms. Mattie.<br />There were numerous characters and yes you needed a scorecard to keep up with who was related to whom and who fathered whom. All in all I throughly enjoyed this book.	2000-12-11
US	52960010	R3F0FVP108AB5R	0525943862	858784351	Cheaters	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Cheaters	This book was GREAT!  What else can I say-so real, so alive, so............  Hard to put down which made me tired and lated for work two days in a row, LOL!  Keep up the excellent work.  I really enjoy all  of your work.	2000-05-17
US	52960010	R2OAWT7OCMCBE7	0684838346	17180593	The Itch	Books	3	0	0	N	N	GOOD JOB	I thought this book was better than Good Hair because the characters were more developed.  I enjoyed the friendship between the two women though they were very different in their thinking as it related to relationships.  The  message I received was, make your own way and do not make any one person  the center of your life. Stop living in la-la land.	1999-01-10
US	52960010	RYLUIVYD3KFSM	0385481314	138335636	Pride	Books	2	3	3	N	N	OK	The characters were interesting but the plot was boring.  I enjoyed their friendships and their bonds.  However, too much time was spent on the past. While explaining each character's past was informative, too much time was  spent revisiting and I found myself bored.  I also thought that Roz and  Tam's conflict should have been explored more. I was disappointed that the  author did not explore how Roz dealt with Hiriam and his infidelity. What,  their life went on without any discussion about his affair with one of her  best friends.  I doubt it. I would not recommend this book.	1999-01-10
US	52960010	R2P4LZ1Q09T8XL	0385486553	910057929	If This World Were Mine	Books	5	3	3	N	N	I loved it!!!	I've read all of Mr. Harris' novels and I anxiously await his next release.  I never thought that I would enjoy reading about the gay underworld and how it relates to the heterosexual community.  Mr. Harris' novels have helped me to keep an open mind when dealing with and accepting differences.<br />I also enjoy how the character Basil slowly but surely creeps into Mr. Harris' novels.  With this book I was able to finally realize what issues Basil was dealing with.  I hope the character, Basil and his healing is explored in furture novels.  A great, great book.	1997-11-15
US	52960010	R188KMVNOG95D9	0525941266	444873075	Sister, Sister	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Entertaining	Sister, Sister was a realistic look into the lives and fantasies of African Amercian women and men.<br />  I throughly enjoyed the relationships and interactions between the Johnson family (it reminded me of my own family) and those they came in contact with.<br /><br />Most of the drama and thoughts of revenge were so real, though most of us would never admit to these types of revenge.<br /><br />The book was well written and fast paced, it<br /> was very hard to put down.<br />I read the book within 24 hours.	1997-07-10
