US	52966861	R135IWC9QRTLT5	0312291027	645604671	Hollywood Tough: A Shane Scully Novel	Books	4	5	5	N	Y	Shane Scully is back in a change-of-pace adventure	In many ways, Stephen J Cannell defined action-adventure series television in the 80s, so it's surprising that it took him so long to create a series character in prose.  In Shane Scully, though, he's created a winner.  Hollywood Tough, the third installment in the series, represents something of a departure for the series.  In it, we see Scully, preparing to return to duty after the events of The Viking Funeral, caught up in a couple of separate investigations.  His wife's close friend's fiance has Shane suspicious.  And former snitch Nicky Marcella, now running a small-time movie studio, has asked Shane to track down a former small-town New Jersy beauty queen to appear in a movie.  This being a Stephen J Cannell story, nothing is what it seems.  As usual, watching a bunch of ordinary joes stumble up against the bigger picture is half the fun.<br />What sets this apart from the typical Shane Scully tale is the Hollywood film setting.  Cannell is clearly drawing on his years of filmmaking experience in his portrayal of--and possibly frustration with--the complex egos and power structures within the industry.  With the skill only an insider could possess, he manages to make the whole thing seem both logical and absurd, and we understand how the system could come to exist in its present state, without accepting it as necessary.<br />Unfortunately, while very enjoyable, Hollywood Tough pales in comparison to previous Scully novels.  Shane isn't as personally connected to the crimes as in Tin Collectors or Viking Funeral, and reduces the sense of urgency found in the earlier books.  A subplot involving his son Chooch, his former gang ties, and his girlfriend is involving, but didn't seem well-enough set up in earlier books to seem like a natural development.  (However, it will be interesting to see how events in this book play out in later installments.)  Alexa Scully, fairly well-developed and strong-willed in earlier volumes, didn't have much to do this time around, either.  Admittedly, this isn't her series; it's Shane's.  Still, it's disappointing to see her get short shrift this time around.<br />Having said that, a comparatively weak entry for the series doesn't mean the book isn't worth reading.  Part of my dissatisfaction with this story may be that it felt different than the previous two books, but I also applaud Cannell for not writing the exact same book three times.  I still liked the story, I still like the characters, and I still want to see what happens next.	2003-02-04
US	52966861	RMXW7OORESF9X	0785110763	659975850	Ultimate Daredevil & Elektra Volume 1 TPB	Books	4	5	5	N	N	A new look/good introduction to old favorites	At Columbia University, two students meet and fall in love.  Matt Murdock, a pre-law student, was blinded in an accident, but compensates with other enhanced sensory abilities--and something more, something secret.  Elektra Natchios, daughter of a dry-cleaning store owner from Queens, has trained as an expert martial artist.  Together, they find happiness.  However, when something horrible happens to one of Elektra's closest friends, they discover a rift forming between them.  As Elektra watches how bad men manipulate the system of law to their own ends, can she still support Matt's faith in that system?<br />Marvel Comics introduced their \\"Ultimate\\" line as a venue for reintroducing concepts like Spider-Man and X-Men to new audiences, with fresh starts free of the continuities built up over 30+ years of comics stories.  Daredevil has remained a relatively straightforward, uncomplicated character, and it could be argued that readers don't need such a clear new entry point.  However, Daredevil and Elektra will soon be featured in a new, big-budget movie, and it makes good marketing sense to present movie audiences with a new introduction that really doesn't require any pre-knowledge of the characters.  Additionally, the story of Daredevil and Elektra is one that pretty much belongs to groundbreaking Daredevil writer/artist Frank Miller.  He created Elektra in his 80s-era run on the title, and tragically killed her off.  While other creators have brought her back to life, that was never Miller's intention, and such efforts always feel somehow... wrong.  By setting this in the Ultimate \\"universe,\\" by telling a tale of alternate, different characters, writer Greg Rucka somehow legitimizes his use of the character.  Nobody besides Frank Miller should write Elektra, but this execption is okay, because it isn't a story about *that* Elektra.<br />And this is very much Elektra's story.  In many ways, it isn't even a Daredevil story, because, despite the cover(s), Matt Murdock has not even created the Daredevil identity.  We see him in a masked guise, but not in the familiar hornheaded costume.  We see him in action, but don't learn much about his origin or powers.  We only see one or two scenes from his perspective; every other time, we see Elektra's view of him.<br />Fortunately, Rucka makes Elektra into an interesting, compelling character, worthy of having her story told.  We watch as she is pushed from a normal life into someone willing to commit almost unthinkable acts to protect the ones she loves.  Given the things that happen to her and hers, we believe the transition, as we see the apparent hopelessness of her situation.  The frustratingly tragic situation begs some sort of sequel or follow-up story, because we have already seen the person that Elektra used to be, and so desperately want her to find her way back to that person, back to that place.  And this, I suppose, is another strength of an \\"ultimate\\" Daredevil/Elektra story: their tale can develop in ways that aren't curtailed by the closure that Miller gave the \\"real\\" versions.<br />The art, by Salvador Larroca, Danny Miki, and Udon Studios, is packed with detail and yet perfectly clear in its storytelling.  They draw characters as distinct individuals and believable real-world settings, a definite plus for a story with no visually fantastic elements.  For readers familiar with the original versions of the characters, these are clearly college-age students.  If Marvel does create follow-ups to this story, I hope this art team is available to draw them.<br />So, while not the perfect introduction to Daredevil, this book creates a fantastic new story about an Elektra we've never seen before.  Hardcore superhero fans may wish for more costumes and action, but longtime fans of Daredevil should feel perfectly at home with the tone and style of this tragic romance.	2003-01-24
US	52966861	R116N5UPPCT5SA	1569717958	759979906	Ancient Joe	Books	4	2	2	N	N	A wonderful new folk-tale	Once upon a time, Ancient Joe, a mysterious, immortal character, tricked El Diablo out of his silver.  Much time passes, and eventually Joe's wife dies.  Worried that El Diablo has claimed his wife's soul in revenge, Joe seeks out a father and daughter who can help him find out if his wife is in Hell or not.  But what is the young girl's own connection to Hell?<br />Any new book by C. Scott Morse is cause for rejoicing, and Ancient Joe: El Bizarron is no exception.  Ancient Joe is inspired by myth and folklore, and captures the clean, easy, straightforward feel of a tale told again and again around the campfire.  Except for a couple of pages of introductory vignettes, the story is told exclusively through art and dialogue, keeping the writing lean, without veering off into the area of pretentious overwritten prose.  His background in animation shows in the way he manages to draw the eye across the page, from one panel to the next, each illustration communicating its information without any need for explanatory captions or extra, unnecessary dialogue.  His expressive, impressionistic character designs are full of emotion.  Even masked Ancient Joe communicates his feelings through his non-human face.<br />What makes Ancient Joe particularly special is the way Morse blends mythologies to create his own world.  From the setting and designs, the story comes across as a South or Central American folktale.  But when we hear the story of how Joe tricked El Diablo into giving away his silver, it's a story I recognized as an Appalachian Jack tale.  I don't know if there's a similarly classic tale behind the father and daughter who can help Joe learn about Hell, or if they come fully from Morse's imagination, and that's a good thing.  He has created a story that feels both new and classic at the same time, and presented it in a lush, gorgeous manner.	2002-10-10
US	52966861	R1C9S2DLHY5OAT	0345421620	996573215	The Demon Awakens (The DemonWars Saga)	Books	3	7	10	N	N	Better characters than story...	On the world of Corona, an evil demon awakens from his imprisoning slumber and plots his conquest of the world.  A goblin and giant army raze the village of Dundalis to the ground, and only two souls survive: Elbryan and Pony.  The two teens are just discovering their love for one another, but they are separated in the attack, neither realizing the other has survived.  Elbryan finds himself rescued by elves and trained to be their ranger, while Pony makes her own way in the world.  And at the monestary at St. Abele, Avelyn, a novice monk, begins his training for a sacred task: recovering the magical stones which periodically fall from the sky.<br />Ultimately, of course, our trio of heroes are brought together, and undertake the task to defeat the demon.  They form a fellowship and venture forth to the firey mountain that the demon calls home, and... Well, you get the idea.  This isn't the first time this sort of tale has been told, and it's hardly the best telling, either.  The plot is fairly basic and straightforward.  The big, bad, evil character is a demon, with bright red skin and bat-like wings, and probably horns (though I don't remember that detail).  All of the non-human races in this world become his allies, except for the elves, because elves always seem to be good.  His goal is to kill all the humans, and the elves, too.  His motivation seems to be that he's evil, and these are the sorts of things he does.<br />Salvatore's writing style is uneven.  While he mostly tells his story in straightforward, unpretentious prose, every so often, a sentence would pop up that made me wonder if an editor had read this book before it was published.  Awkward prose aside, though, I enjoyed this book enough to finish it, and to want to read the next installment.  Salvatore may not be an artist with words, but he's an effective storyteller.  He crafts compelling characters whose lives I found myself caught up in.  I didn't so much want to find out what happened next because of the twisting, labyrinthine plot, but because I cared about these people's fates.	2002-09-08
US	52966861	R1K63D90HOLC2H	0563538465	966099668	Hope (Doctor Who)	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Like reading an old, familiar friend	The Doctor, Fitz, and Anji find themselves in the city of Hope, on the planet of Endpoint, far in the future, separated from the TARDIS, which has sunk to the bottom of the poisoned, polluted sea beneath the city.  The Doctor sees the city as violent, crime-ridden, and amoral, and wants to leave as soon as possible.  However, in order to recover his ship, he is forced to make a deal with Silver, ruler of Hope in fact, if not in name.  Silver has a problem: a mysterious assailant is decapitating the citizens of Hope, and the ongoing crimes are weakening the perception of Silver's control.  While the Doctor and Fitz investigate the murders, Anji considers making a different sort of deal with Silver, one which could destroy her friendship with the Doctor . . .<br />Mark Clapham, co-author of three previous Doctor Who-related novels, makes his solo debut here.  After the epic scope and momentous events of The Adventuress of Henrietta Street and the madcap post-modern antics of Mad Dogs and Englishmen, I found Hope to be a refreshing change of pace in its conventionality.  In terms of plot and storytelling, Hope is a comfortably traditional Doctor Who adventure.  The Doctor and his companions arrive in a strange place, they encounter a mystery, eventually uncovering a villain behind everything, and the Doctor saves the day.  The plot unfolds in a fairly straightforward, linear manner, the prose focused on clear storytelling rather than literary experimentation.<br />So, I hear you ask, if the plot is so straightforward, what's the point in reading it?  The point, I reply, is in the characterization.  In many ways, this is Anji's book.  She doesn't see as much action as the Doctor or Fitz, but we get a good look inside her head.  Her character turns a major psychological corner in Hope, although new readers should be aware that this book provides enough information for them to understand what Anji is dealing with.  Similarly, we get some insight into the Doctor's new roleas humanity's champion following the changes brought about in Adventuress of Henrietta Street.  He still remains something of an enigma, just as he always should, but it's also clear that he certainly isn't the same renegade Time Lord he used to be.  Before die-hard fans start panicking, let me point out that these changes are natural developments coming out of the events of recent books.  They've helped make the character more interesting and unpredictable, but at the heart, he's still the same Doctor fans have loved for almost 40 years.<br />The novel isn't perfect.  The revelation of the ultimate villain should come as no real surprise, and his motivations aren't all that subtle or groundbreaking.  The book also introduces two groups of supporting villains, one of which pretty much comes to nothing, the other of which isn't developed all that deeply.  Having said that, however, I think the line of eighth Doctor novels needed this sort of story.  After all the big events of the last few years, from Interference through Shadows of Avalon, The Ancestor Cell, through the Doctor's century trapped on Earth and his memory loss, on through his time on Henrietta Street, it's good to see him in a very traditional adventure.  It reminds us and reinforces the fact that despite everything that's happened, he's still the same hero, never cruel nor cowardly, always ready to fight evil and oppression wherever he finds it.	2002-02-20
US	52966861	R39HGUMFAC7NRN	0802713262	382334052	Cod: A Biography of the Fish That Changed the World	Books	5	1	1	N	N	It's the little things that surprise you	If I hadn't read Mark Kurlansky's Cod, I wouldn't have known the vital role cod played in the settlement of North America.  If not for cod, America might have never declared its independence.  Cod was an important element in the facilitation of the slave trade.  All news to me until I read Cod.  (Well, until I read A Cod's Tale, which led me to read the full version.)<br />Cod reminds us that human beings are a connected part of our ecosystem.  Too often, I think we perceive some sort of separation between us and so-called &quot;nature.&quot;  We are either concerned with or disregard our impact on the rest of the system, but we overlook how that system impacts on us.  Mr. Kurlansky shows the human side of the equation.  and how a lack of concern for the totality of our environment will eventually come back and bite us in the rear.  We see how the reduction of the cod population has impacted on the world's fishing industry, and, more importantly, on the individuals who make up that industry.<br />Cod is an extremely well-done history book, detailed and easy to read.  More importantly, it is clearly relevant to contemporary readers, demonstrating how the cycle of cause-and-effect continues to this day.	2002-02-02
US	52966861	R4WLFMEG214N5	0375811745	169615785	Flipped	Books	5	106	115	N	N	Charming and wonderful	\\"Some of us get dipped in flat, some in satin, some in gloss . . .\\" Bryce Loski's grandfather tells him.  \\"But every once in a while you find someone who's iridescent, and when you do, nothing will ever compare.\\"<br />From the moment the Loski family moves into town, Juli Baker finds herself drawn to their young son, Bryce.  Even before his family finishes unloading the moving van, Bryce finds himself running away from her, and so their relationship remains for the next six years.  All Bryce sees is the weird girl from across the street that lives in a messy house and climbs way too high up the ancient sycamore tree at the school bus stop.  For her part, Juli can't get past Bryce's dreamy blue eyes and the scent of watermelon wafting from his hair.<br />And then comes the day that everything begins to change.<br />Told by both Bryce and Juli in alternating first-person chapters, this book is more than a simple romance.  It isn't about two people overcoming obstacles in the path to true love.  Instead, it details the creation of those obstacles, deftly illustrating how the reality of human perceptions and emotions differs from the ideal notion of love at first sight.  In Bryce and Juli, Ms. Van Draanen has created a pair of living, breathing, three-dimensional characters, and the more we learn about the two of them, the less inevitable a happy ending seems to be.<br />By contrasting the points of view, this \\"he-said/she-said\\" story shows the difference between our thoughts and our actions.  What we think about what we say and do doesn't matter; it's what people see us saying and doing that counts.  However, while Bryce learns that the best of intentions can't necessarily excuse unkind actions, both he and Juli come to realize that they both have to look beneath the surface to see the truth about each other.  Perhaps the poor condition of the Baker house-and what it says about their family-doesn't tell the simple story Bryce assumes it does, and perhaps Bryce's beautiful blue eyes aren't a strong enough reason for Juli to pursue him.<br />This story's initial light, breezy, funny style drew me in immediately.  The more I read, the more caught up I became in the emotion of the characters, and the more I began to care about both of them.  Fortunately, Ms. Van Draanen remained true to the complexity of her creations, providing an ending that perfectly satisfied, without being simple or pat.  With all due respect to her Sammy Keyes books, I certainly hope this isn't the last time we see this sort of work from her.	2002-01-29
US	52966861	R2FS0YKI5XSTHD	0563538287	467443446	Dr. Who :  Instruments of Darkness (Doctor Who)	Books	3	3	4	N	N	Another reliable Gary Russell novel	Earth, 1993: A mysterious group known as the Network is drafting ESP-powered individuals to assist with their mysterious plans.  In a small British village, the local squire has allied himself with a pair of enigmatic Irish twins (familiar to regular readers of this series) for equally mysterious reasons.  The sixth Doctor and Mel, along with former companion Evelyn Smythe, find themselves caught up in these events, and, as usual, end up facing godlike beings with dubious goals.<br />Gary Russell's novels clearly show his love for Doctor Who, the television series.  Unlike authors like Lawrence Miles or Paul Cornell, he isn't trying to push the envelope so much as recreate the feel of the show on the printed page.  What makes his novels particularly enjoyable for me are his characters.  He always seems to strive to make everyone an individual, with a distinctive past and personality.  In many ways, this particular novel is a step forward in that area, with the characters much more prominent than the plot.<br />Like many of the televised sixth Doctor stories, the Doctor's involvement in the plot is pretty minimal for the first half or so.  In this case, though, the fast-paced story development, cutting from scene to scene without becoming confusing, kept my interest up.  Gary Russell has a fairly straightforward style compared to other Doctor Who authors, which makes for a refreshing change.  He seems less interested in literary tricks and more interested in just telling his story.<br />His story, in this case, is a semi-sequel to two previous adventures, Scales of Injustice and Business Unusual, two of Russell's better books.  Instruments of Darkness is less connected to the previous two in terms of plot, but almost all of the characters appeared in the earlier stories.  Russell does explain who is who, and what their relationships are to one another, but reading the earlier stories is recommended, if possible.<br />Most interesting is his use of Evelyn Smythe, a character currently appearing in a series of original-to-CD Doctor Who audio plays produced by Gary Russell and Big Finish Productions.  This is her first appearance in prose, and Russell takes the opportunity to flesh out her character's background quite a bit.  He also develops her unique relationship with the Doctor without pinning things down to the point of controversy.  She and the much-maligned Mel make a great team in this book, and I hope Russell has the opportunity to pen more novels with this particular cast.<br />The book's biggest drawback, unfortunately, is the conclusion.  I didn't find the resolution particularly clear, and that always irritates me.  On the other hand, the post-climax chapters seemed to set up yet another potential sequel without being too annoying, so I guess it all balances out.<br />I find Gary Russell's books to be comforting and relaxing, and this one was no different.  Fans looking for groundbreaking Who fiction will be better off with this month's eighth Doctor release, The Adventuress of Henrietta Street.  Those looking for the comfort of the familiar should find a great deal to enjoy in Instruments of Darkness.	2001-12-13
US	52966861	R22FTMUFEHOUTL	0439306426	450887152	What's Wrong With My Pony? (Pony Pals No. 33)	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Heartfelt	Pam, one of the Pony Pals, is shocked to discover that Lightning, her pony, is behaving oddly.  He seems upset with her, her friends, and even the other ponies.  Pam soon learns the problem is more serious than Lightning's hurt feelings.  Readers will be just as anxious as Pam for a happy resolution.<br />This is the first Pony Pals book I have read, and I found it very enjoyable.  While its relatively straightforward plot and writing style are clearly aimed at younger readers (well, younger than me, anyway), I still got caught up in the emotion.  I was also impressed at the level of complexity shown in the friendship between the Pony Pals.  Yes, they're all friends, but that doesn't mean everything is always sweetness and light.  I'm surprised to find myself wanting to read other books in the series, and I'm sure regular readers will be pleased by this installment.	2001-12-12
US	52966861	R1T4Y1KLFKSWU	0375814108	92258599	Pure Dead Magic	Books	3	9	11	N	N	Great ideas in search of a novel	As Amazon.com's review points out, this story overflows with imagination, and may turn out to be a great example of post-Harry Potter juvenile fantasy. Combining the classic trappings of a magical adventure with modern children's fascinations with computers and techonlogy, she has created a book that is hip, fast-paced, and very funny. The characters are clearly depicted with definite, individual personalities. It's a shame that the plot doesn't live up to the quality of the prose.<br />While I enjoyed the book while reading it, I felt unsatisfied the second I turned the last page. It felt as if Ms. Gliori had so many good ideas, she was more concerned with cramming them all in rather than exploring any of them. From the start, we learn that Mrs. MacLachlan, the new nanny, is a former witch determined not to use her magic on her new job as nanny. Why not? Family parents Signor and Signora Strega-Borgia are currently separated, which is an important element to the story. Why? The reader is never given much real information, and that makes it difficult to become truly involved with the story.<br />Ultimately, then, the book is fun, but slight. With its short chapters, it might make a good book for teachers to read aloud to their students in daily installments, but for me, it failed to come together to form a strong enough novel to impress me as much as the works of JK Rowling or Lemony Snickett.	2001-12-11
US	52966861	R1KNC8MBLU67SJ	0385505833	999720718	Skipping Christmas: A Novel	Books	4	22	22	N	Y	A light Christmas confection	For the legions of fans anxiously awaiting John Grisham's latest thriller, this will probably be pretty unsatisfying.  Me, I'm not a big fan of his thrillers, and am glad to see him branching out more and writing the sorts of books I enjoy reading, with The Painted House, and now this.  Plus, I'm a sucker for Christmas stories.<br />Like most Christmas stories, this isn't groundbreaking literature.  It's as familiar and comfortable as watching a rerun of It's a Wonderful Life or Miracle on 34th Street while a yule log blazes away in a stocking-bedecked fireplace, and in the corner of the room you can see the lights twinkling on the Christmas tree.  It's the story of Luther and Nora Krank, who, with their daughter having joined the Peace Corps, decide to avoid their usual Christmas hassles and expenses and take a cruise instead.  Of course, this shocks their neighbors, who are completely bound up in annual Christmas traditions.  Told in an easy, breezy style, this story feels like the novel-length version of something that would appear in the New Yorker, poking fun at the pointlessness of all the surface trappings of Christmas in a slightly condescending but good-natured way.  There are few real surprises in this story, but that isn't the point.  We aren't reading this book for the shocks or the plot twists.  We're reading it to smile as Luthor finds himself under siege by neighborhood carolers.<br />While this story ultimately does nothing more than reinforce traditional Christmas values, Grisham gets points for not having someone stand up and state the obvious.  Indeed, upon first finishing this story, I felt sort of irritated.  I had the impression that Grisham had ended up endorsing the sorts of activities he had initially lampooned.  However, upon further reflection, I saw how he had subtly underlined a more important message: it isn't important what you do or don't do for Christmas, but the reasons why you do it are important.  For sticking to his guns without being too obvious about it, this novel earns four stars as a Christmas story.being too obvious about it, this novel earns four stars as a Christmas story.	2001-12-06
US	52966861	R2UG3DHTX4OI7Z	0812534085	731768700	The Ivory and the Horn (Newford)	Books	4	7	8	N	Y	More beautiful tales from the streets of Newford	This second collection of urban fantasy stories from de Lint's fictional city of Newford is almost as pleasurable as the first.  As before, each story can be read and enjoyed on its own, but taken as a whole, they build subtly upon each other, and on stories from Dreams Underfoot, to create a whole portrait of a city that is greater than the sum of its parts.  De Lint's lyrical, beautiful prose subtly underplays the magic, making it completely believable that there truly is this greater world beyond the one we ordinarily perceive.<br />The only reason I give this book four stars rather than five is the apparent influence that author/attorney Andrew Vachss has on this collection.  Vachss's work crusading against crimes against children is indeed an admirable goal.  However, several stories in a row in The Ivory and the Horn pick up on those themes--one even mentioning Vachss as someone one of the characters has had contact with--and it lends that particular section a samey sort of feeling, as opposed to the variety I prefer to find in short story collections.  Individually, the stories are just fine.  I simply would have prefered to see them presented in a different order, to keep the recurring themes from feeling so obvious.	2001-12-06
US	52966861	R1F1Y3HMQVYCG5	1563897008	625211509	Blackhawk, The - Archives, Volume 1 (Archive Editions (Graphic Novels))	Books	4	46	48	N	N	A beautiful slice of cultural history	Blackhawk, along with Sgt Rock, is arguably one of the finest war comics ever.  Months before America entered World War II following the attack on Pearl Harbor, readers thrilled to the adventures of these seven international aviators, none of them American, rallying behind Blackhawk, a Polish flying ace.  While these stories are sheer pulp adventure, they possess a hard edge marking them as more than mere kiddie fare.  Perhaps not as sophisticated as today's adult-oriented comics, but I found the stories to be engaging and exciting nonetheless.  The emphasis is on plot and action, but there is also a surprising amount of character and emotion, compared to other stories from the period.  Some of the stories hold up better than others, but overall, this is an entertaining collection.<br />What truly makes it special, however, is the art.  In his introduction, Mark Evanier describes how the late Chuck Cuidera and Reed Crandall were responsible for making Blackhawk one of the best looking comics of its time, and he's not kidding.  The art, reminiscent of the great Milt Canniff, is dynamic, expressive, detailed, and cinematic.  Even the clunkiest of stories in this book is redeemed by the art.<br />Having said all that, politically correct readers should be warned that this volume does feature horribly negative stereotypes of Germans and Asians.  While this is understandably a by-product of the time in which these stories were produced, I don't think they should simply be dismissed with a simple, &quot;Well, that's how people thought back then.&quot;  I do think these sorts of stories should be kept in print, warts and all, not just because they are good adventure stories with a great deal of artistic merit.  Seeing how recently such racist attitudes were viewed as acceptable helps remind us how far we still have to go in terms of race relations.  This sort of casual racism should be acknowledged as having existed, and not swept under the carpet.<br />Still, occasionally awkward stories and overt racism aside, this is still an excellent volume, and a worthy addition to any comics lover's collection.awkward stories and overt racism aside, this is still an excellent volume, and a worthy addition to any comics lover's collection.	2001-12-03
US	52966861	RGEMWN5MVMQHO	0563538422	767196252	The Adventuress of Henrietta Street (Doctor Who)	Books	4	11	13	N	N	A Must-Read	Lawrence Miles clearly does not understand that licensed fiction, novels based on a TV series, are supposed to be written to fit a mold, to give fans of the series just what they expect.  And it's a good thing for Doctor Who that he doesn't.  This novel is a major turning point for the series, and to say too much about the plot would give too much away.  It's the tale of a year the Doctor and his companions spend on late 18th century Earth, defending it against an incursion from beyond.  It's a tale of their allies and enemies.  And it's great.<br />Miles has chosen to write this particular story as if it were an actual history text, rather than a novel.  There is very little actual dialogue, and what we do get is ostensibly quoted from other sources.  More than simple literary pretention or conceit, this gives the novel an epic feel.  The reader has the sense that truly important events are being related, because the narrative places them into a worldwide context.  Despite this particular storytelling choice, the reader doesn't feel distanced from the characters or story.  In some ways, the suspense is heightened, because of the foreshadowing this &quot;looking back on history&quot; format allows.<br />Additionally, because this is written as a history text rather than just another Doctor Who novel, it makes a perfect jumping-on point for the series.  Unlike Miles's last Doctor Who novel, Interference, readers don't need to know anything about the series history to follow this story.  Regular fans will have a deeper understanding of the truth behind the mysteries of the Doctor, but newcomers shouldn't feel left out.  (I have to admit, I'm assuming this is the case; as a twenty-plus year fan of the character, I can hardly see these stories as a newcomer would.)<br />Thrilling, breathtaking, heart-wrenching, this book effectively completes the cycle of change started back in Interference, and sets the Doctor on a new--but not unfamiliar--path, with a new purpose, andpossibly a new adversary.  And I defy anyone to read the final chapters without a tear coming to their eye.	2001-11-28
US	52966861	R1LOF6J4LFY67M	074343112X	20110081	Gateways Book Seven  What Lay Beyond (Star Trek)	Books	2	47	47	N	Y	Disappointing and pointless	Instead of one big novel involving characters from all six current Star Trek book series, this is a collection of six short stories, each one picking up from the cliffhanger ending of each of the Gateways novels from the individual series (if that makes sense).  While this sounded like a cynical marketing ploy, I had hoped that the six stories would build on each other to present some sort of unified whole, bringing the whole adventure to one grand conclusion.  How wrong I was!<br />The Star Trek (original series), Challenger, and Voyager stories could--and probably should--have easily been included as concluding chapters in their respective books.  Each one is nothing more than an epilogue to the main story.  The Deep Space Nine and New Frontier stories present somewhat separate adventures, but that doesn't make them much better.  In both, characters get transported to significant locations (an important historical moment for Colonel Kira, a mythical afterlife for Calhoun and Shelby) where nothing of any real consequence seems to happen.  Of course, since both series present ongoing adventures, it's possible that these tales plant seeds for upcoming stories.  Even if that were the case, it doesn't make these stories any less inconsequential or any more satisfying.<br />The Next Generation tale, longer than the other five, does, indeed, wrap up the Gateways story.  But, like the other five, there's no real reason (besides financial) that this story couldn't have been included at the end of Doors Into Chaos.<br />Because four of the stories are completely dependent upon what came before, there is a complete lack of tension or suspense.  All the big events happened in the parent novels, and all the authors have left to do in What Lay Beyond is tie up the loose ends (even when there aren't really any loose ends that need tying up).  Any opportunites for suspense that could have been sustained through the other two stories are completely ignored by their authors.  Frustratingly, those two authors, Peter David and Keith RA DeCandidio, have done particularly good Star Trek work in the past, which makes their lackluster contributions here even more disappointing.<br />So, if you followed the Gateways saga so far and need to see what happens next, I recommend waiting for the paperback.  Nothing of enough consequence happens to make this an immediate must-read.	2001-11-22
US	52966861	R2ZIDWLUVWHLMR	0064471438	63157300	Whitechurch	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Snapshot portraits of a friendship	Whitechurch tells the story of Pauly and Oakley, best friends in the town of Whitechurch, their love for Lily, Pauly's girlfriend, and for each other.  Pauly is the wild one, dependent upon Oakley to keep him grounded.  However, from the very first incident the book relates--including a scene where Pauly puts a gun in Oakley's mouth--it becomes clear that Pauly is a ticking time bomb, and the best thing Oakley can hope to do is just get out of the way before he explodes.<br />Told through poems and short stories, Chris Lynch reveals the relationships between his characters through the little incidents that make up life.  Very few people live lives structured like a well-plotted novel, and that goes double for this group of aimless teenagers.  As the book progresses, the connections between the pieces become more and more apparent, with the final poem bringing it all together.<br />This is the second Chris Lynch novel I have read (after Iceman).  Both books feature dark-edged plots and emotionally dysfunctional characters, rendered starkly and unsentimentally.  It's that air of grim realism that draws me back to Lynch's books.  I find them compelling, without the sense that everything will end up happy just because that's how audiences prefer their stories to end.  Because, again, real life is never as well planned as a novel.  Lynch kept me engrossed in this story because I needed to find out how it all turned out, if things were as inevitable as they seemed.	2001-11-20
US	52966861	R2IH548MG6N1LE	0812516214	584076112	Dreams Underfoot (Newford)	Books	5	28	28	N	Y	Magic in the world around us	In the nineteen stories about the fictional Canadian city of Newford collected in this book, Charles de Lint relocates the mythical creatures of fairy tale and folklore from their traditional settings and surrounds them with urban scenery.  As one character writes in the final story: &quot;That was the real magic for me: the possibility that we only have to draw aside a veil to find the world a far more strange and wondrous place than its mundaneness allowed it could be.&quot;  That quote sums up why I love the Newford stories than I ever could.<br />While not a novel, these stories do add up to more than the sum of their parts.  Minor characters in one story may go on to star in stories of their own.  Events in one tale have resonances later on.  The reader is given a cross-sectional look at the small events that make up life in this city, and gets a chance to know its inhabitants.<br />De Lint's prose is gentle and relaxing.  These stories almost beg to be read aloud, so that the reader can savor the language.  Whenever I'm feeling upset, I know I can read one of de Lint's stories and feel better, just by &quot;listening&quot; to his voice.  He doesn't always have something groundbreaking to say about people or life or love, but sometimes it's good to be reminded of things we already know to be true, and even better to be reminded in such a beautiful fashion.	2001-11-15
US	52966861	R3S7OXPH68XV3H	0563538406	542655598	Dying in the Sun (Doctor Who)	Books	3	3	3	N	N	LA Confidential - Doctor Who style	As the story opens in 1947 Hollywood, small-time dope peddler Robert Chate is trying to get out from under the thumb of his gangster boss, the Doctor's companions Ben and Polly are sightseeing, and the Doctor himself is visiting an old friend.  Unfortunately, the murder of that friend brings the Doctor into contact with the LAPD, Robert Chate, and a mysterious plot to capture the minds and hearts of the citizens of LA.  And how is the unnaturally popular film Dying in the Sun involved in all this?<br />What starts off as a bargain-basement James Ellroy Hollywood noir thriller soon turns into a (more appropriate for Doctor Who) tale of alien invasion, possession, zombies, and movie stars.  Jon de burgh Miller writes a fast-paced, gripping story that keeps the reader turning the pages, despite what ultimately feels like quite a bit of running around and accomplishing nothing.  For the most part, the characters are fleshed out quite well, although some, like Detective Fletcher, still seem rather thin, while others seem to have had melodramatic twists foisted on them very unnecessarily.<br />This particular novel serves as a good introduction to the series for newcomers.  It allows readers to see what a typical Doctor Who adventure is like without requiring any foreknowledge of the characters (except, perhaps, knowing that the Doctor is the hero).  In many ways, it functions similarly to Justin Richards's novel The Burning, though not quite as well written.  Having said that, it is a good, fun adventure, one that could only be told as a novel, not as part of the TV series.  It has an epic feel to it, and makes good use of the period Hollywood setting without being too self-conscious about it.  Perhaps not a must-read, but fans won't be disappointed, and newcomers will hopefully want to read more.	2001-11-15
US	52966861	R3UQVDQV94XXW8	1569317143	254899099	Uzumaki, Volume 1	Books	4	11	11	N	N	Lovecraft in Japan	In the coastal Japanese town of Koruzo-Cho, strange events are afoot.  As told by schoolgirl Kirie Goshima, the town is being affected somehow by the mysterious power of the spiral, and nobody, not even those closest to her, are safe.<br />While this story contains enough chilling events that it would even be effective in prose, the true magic comes from Junji Ito's illustrations.  He takes some of the most outlandish concepts (a man's body twisted into a spiral, two girls fighting each other using their freakishly elongated hair) and makes them incredibly disturbing, rather than looking ridiculous.  This is a far cry from most American monster or bump-in-the-night horror comics, and much more effective than simple drawings of visceral gore.<br />This is only the first installment of this series, so explanations and resolution are almost absent.  However, I found myself so drawn in to this weird story that I am looking forward to future volumes, no matter how creeped out I know I'll get reading them.	2001-11-15
US	52966861	R3K6MGPO7W9AFM	1575666162	841256232	High Hand (Martha Chainey Mysteries)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	A gripping start to a new series	Readers who, like myself, have heard good things about Gary Phillips but don't want to commit themselves to reading the four Ivan Monk books should find this a good starting place to sample his work.  Former Vegas showgirl Martha Chainey makes an interesting protagonist.  She's not a cop, a private eye, or any of the typical mystery heroine professions.  Although a courier for the Vegas mob (such as it is in the 21st century), she's also not a crook.  She's just a woman doing her job, until events force her to track down thieves and murderers, if only to clear her own name.<br />Mr. Phillips does a great job creating distinctive characters.  While some characters are more likeable than others, almost everybody makes an impression.  He also evokes a real sense of place in his descriptions.  Best of all, he keeps the story moving and the tension high, rarely slowing down, never letting the reader forget that Chainey is working against the clock to save her own life.<br />The book isn't perfect; there are one or two too many coincidences, and sometimes characters' sexual quirks were played so broadly they almost felt gratuitious.  And while the main plot is resolved by the end of the book, Phillips does tease his readers with a cliffhanger about future threats to Chainey's life.  On the other hand, the main story ends with a stark simplicity that I found refreshing, and I didn't mind the dangling plot threads.  Real life never ends neatly, and now I have an excuse to pick up the next book in the series.	2001-11-11
US	52966861	R17R7XX95ZHXXI	0563538414	916680421	Grimm Reality (Doctor Who)	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Just another adventure	On the one hand, Grimm Reality's tale of the Doctor and his companions stuck on a planet that seems to be a fairy story come to life is a lot of fun.  Anji and Fitz, with their 20th/21st century attitudes bumping up against the fairy tale situations, get some of the best scenes.  Anji has some particularly hilarious moments when she finds herself stuck working for an entire family of wicked stepsisters.  And the Doctor is perfectly at home playing the role of Doctor Know-All, the standard fairy tale wise man.  Authors Simon Bucher-Jones and Kelly Hale do a good job melding the Doctor Who style with the trappings of a Disney movie.<br />On the other hand, the book suffers from a lack of clarity as far as what's really going on, which ultimately hurt my enjoyment of it.  It was all fun until I got to the end, and realized that I really had only the vaguest idea what had happened, and that was disappointing.  On top of that, many of the supporting characters lacked any real depth, and it became difficult to care about them.  At times, I felt more like I was reading a collection of good ideas incompletely explored, rather than a cohesive whole.  On the other hand, Dave Stone's recent Doctor Who novel, Slow Empire, was an even worse example of that, so at least Grimm Reality didn't fall as far as it might.<br />So, at the end of the day, Grimm Reality is a novel that completists shouldn't feel bitter about having on their shelves.  It's an entertaining story, and it perfectly captures the character of the Doctor.  But fans who are looking for an outstanding story might be better off reading last month's City of the Dead and (from what I hear) next month's Adventuress of Henrietta Street, and giving this one a pass.	2001-11-11
US	52966861	RLZNNX9YIOMGW	0689843100	16451216	Little Panda: The World Welcomes Hua Mei at the San Diego Zoo	Books	4	10	11	N	N	Beautiful and educational	I'll be perfectly honest: I love following Hua Mei's story at the San Diego Zoo web site.  I'm a complete sucker for panda stories.  So I was pleased to finally see a more permanent record of Hua Mei's first year.<br />While I bought this book for the photographs (which are plentiful, large, and beautiful), this book should also appeal to children and parents because of its text (or perhaps I should say &quot;texts&quot;).  The author has written two parallel texts: one fairly simple and straightforward for younger readers, printed in large type, and a slightly more complex one in smaller type, giving more detailed information about pandas.  By creating a book that appeals to more than one reading level, Ms. Ryder has given us a book that parents will be able to share with their young children as they grow older and learn to read.<br />Make no mistake; this is not a detailed textbook about pandas.  If that's what you're looking for, I recommend George Schaller's LAST PANDA (also available from Amazon.com, coincidentally enough).  But this is a good introduction for young children, who may be able to indentify with the young Hua Mei.  For older panda lovers, this is an excellent collection of photographs.  The only thing that keeps me from giving this book five stars (besides the fact that I never give anything five stars) is that I can never get enough information about Hua Mei.	2001-03-21
US	52966861	R1WO1LYWK7OEF4	0553493620	975544324	The Witch's Daughter (The Blair Witch Files, Case File 1)	Books	2	1	1	N	N	Disappointing	After enjoying the Blair Witch Chronicles comics, the Blair Witch Project Dossier, and the Secret Confession of Rustin Parr (not to mention the original movie), I thought I would get the same buzz from this book.   Sadly, I found the writing to be a lot less compelling than those other  tie-ins.  The description was flat, the characters were simple and dull,  and the plot was fairly predictable.  Worst of all, it just wasn't very  scary.  Despite an attempt at a &quot;did it happen or didn't it?&quot;  twist, I saw the ending coming about a hundred pages away.  I'm afraid I  won't be making reading further volumes in this series a priority.	2000-09-16
US	52966861	RX2XC624JTAO9	0563538058	766536581	Casualties of War (Doctor Who Series)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	A great horror story, and a great Doctor Who story	I've always thought WWI is the perfect era in which to set a horror story,  and that Doctor Who, at its best, was a horror series, even when it dressed  the stories up in science fiction trappings.  Casualties of War proves both  those points admirably.  As usual, all the weirdness is explained before  the end of the tale, but that doesn't make it any less dark and creepy,  without being overly graphic.<br />Steve Emmerson tells his story in a fairly  straightforward, linear fashion, which allows the reader to focus on the  three-dimensional, likeable characters.  The more we get to know these  people, the more heart-rending the story becomes, as we fret and worry  about what will happen to them.  He describes the action with detail and  clarity, and I found myself wishing once again that Doctor Who was still on  television, and telling stories just like this.<br />Mr. Emmerson's portrayal  of the eighth Doctor is superb.  If it hadn't been just as good in last  month's The Burning, I would say this is the best he's been in a while.   This book continues the Doctor's plight from The Ancestor Cell and The  Burning, but (intentionally), you don't need to have read those books to  understand what's happening.  Well, you do, but you don't need to  understand, because the Doctor doesn't know what has happened to him,  either.  Series consulting editor (and author of The Burning) Justin  Richards has effectively restored the mystery to the character by  separating him from his companions, his TARDIS, and his memory of his own  identity.  Readers can see the pure essence of the Doctor, unobstructed by  references to a past he can't remember, unable to rely on Time Lord  abilities he is no longer aware he has.  As far as anyone around him is  concerned, he's a mysterious wanderer, just like he was when we first met  him back in 1963.<br />The book isn't 100% perfect; more of the climax happens  offscreen than I usually prefer.  However, after months of books where the  regular character subplots easily overwhelmed the main stories, it's nice  having the books appear to tell compelling stories again.	2000-09-16
US	52966861	RDVM64MQVQ35K	067104298X	922553627	Challenger (Star Trek, New Earth, Book 6)	Books	4	6	6	N	N	A nifty pilot for a new series	I read this book with two frames of mind.  On the one hand, I wanted it to  satisfy as a fun Star Trek adventure, and as the wrap-up to the New Earth  story.  On the other, I knew that Challenger was designed to set up a  potential spin-off series featuring an all-new ship and crew, along the  lines of Peter David's Star Trek New Frontier series (which I have just  started reading and enjoying).  So, with that in mind . . .<br />Challenger  seemed to get off to a real slow start.  I was about a quarter of the way  through the book before I got hooked.  Once that happened, however, I was  very hooked indeed.  Diane Carey managed to take a number of seemingly  unrelated elements from across the various New Earth books and brought them  together in a fairly satisfying way.  I don't think this makes the book the  ideal jumping-on point, but enough is explained that readers who just want  to see how the Challenger adventures start shouldn't feel too lost.<br />If I  hadn't known that this was a sort of pilot for Challenger, I would probably  have been disappointed at the somewhat minimal role that Kirk, Spock, and  the Enterprise take.  However, once the future crew of the Challenger  finally started taking center stage, those thoughts vanished.  Ms. Carey  has put together a collection of colorful, likeable characters.  With a  healthy mix of Starfleet officers, civilians, and aliens, things should be  diverse and interesting enough for a long while.  Here's hoping we see more  of these folks in the future!	2000-09-10
US	52966861	R1H3E2MEML7Z12	067178577X	414886127	Thin Air (Star Trek: New Earth, Book 5)	Books	3	3	4	N	N	Fast paced and exciting	I'm not a regular Star Trek reader, but I decided to give this six-book  summer series a try.  Like the second volume, Belle Terre, Thin Air gives  readers a thrilling race-against-the-clock adventure as Captain Kirk and  the crew of the Enterprise race to save the planet from certain doom (just  like in the second and fourth books, although each threat has managed to be  fairly distinctive).  What really makes this book come alive is the way  authors Smith and Rusch brought the supporting characters to life.  They  showed that these crises were happening to real people, not faceless,  nameless cardboard cut-outs.  I found myself on the edge of my seat with  anxiety over certain characters' fates.  As a page-turning adventure, this  novel definitely satisfies, and had me looking forward to the next book.	2000-09-10
US	52966861	R3VU9GDMUJZFLK	0743411536	896977266	Blair Witch: The Secret Confession of Rustin Parr	Books	4	12	13	N	N	Two words: cree-pee!	Short, sweet, and very chilling, this novel expands nicely upon the Blair  Witch backstory presented in the movie, but does so in a way that shouldn't  require readers to have actually seen the film.  (At least, that's my  guess; it's hard to be sure, since I have seen the film.)  Author DA Stern  demonstrates more than a mere understanding of the Blair Witch fictional  mythos with this story; he clearly understands that what made the original  movie so creepily effective was its &quot;less is more&quot; approach to  horror.  This novel uses the same philosophy; what it tells us about former  priest Dominic Cazale and accused serial murderer of children Rustin Parr  isn't half as scary as what it doesn't tell us.  Like the previous Blair  Witch spin-offs, the comics collected in the Blair Witch Chronicles book,  fans of the movie should find more of what they enjoyed in this novel.   Between this book and the comics, I'm pleased enough that I want to give  the Blair Witch Files books a try!	2000-09-09
US	52966861	R23FN4DLN319AF	0563555955	970412841	Doctor Who : Coldheart	Books	3	5	5	N	N	Big, scary monsters!	I'll admit it: I'm a simple guy with simple tastes sometimes, particularly when it comes to Doctor Who books.  When I think of the Doctor Who TV show, I remember it as a series of fun, exciting fantasy adventures.  At its  best, it gave me colorful characters and locales, and twisty, memorable  plots.  At its worst, it never failed to entertain.  I expect the same buzz  from the Doctor Who books, and while some impress me more than others, even  the worst never fail to entertain me.<br />Coldheart is one of those books  that I find tough to recommend, but not because it isn't good.  It just  doesn't particularly stand out as a groundbreaking novel.  It's sort of  like the cliche of Chinese food: I really enjoyed it while I read it, and  when I was done, I was hungry an hour later.  It satisfied my monthly  craving for an entertaining Doctor Who story, but didn't leave the same  impact as, say, The Blue Angel or Interference or Shadows of Avalon.   <br />The structure of the story--like Baxendale's previous novel, The Janus  Conjunction--will be fairly familiar to regular fans.  The Doctor, Fitz,  and Compassion arrive on a desert planet that mines water from underground  ice reserves.  Something has happened to the population, creating a race of  slime-covered mutants, unimaginatively called Slimers.  Instead of  kindness, sympathy and understanding, the Slimers are greeted with  prejudice and hatred, and exiled from the city.  As usual, it's up to the  Doctor to find out what's wrong and fix things.<br />While Mr. Baxendale gives  us a fairly standard story, there's still plenty to like about Coldheart.   The nine-year-old fan who still lives inside me who has trouble with  &quot;look how smart the author is&quot; science fiction stories was  extremely pleased to see a big monster in the later parts of the book.  And  Compassion gets quite a few nice bits.  She's changed a great deal since  her first appearance in Interference, and Coldheart helps drive that pointhome.  I'm genuinely curious to see where her story takes her, and this  book helped feed that curiousity.<br />Bottom line: if you're a Doctor Who fan  who just wants to be entertained by this month's novel, Coldheart will fill  the bill.  If you prefer your Doctor Who with a bit more meat on its bones,  give this one a pass and pick up Verdigris or Space Age.	2000-05-13
US	52966861	R1UT62LFKXMZ5K	0563555947	642782247	The Fall of Yquatine (Doctor Who (BBC))	Books	3	6	6	N	N	A return to normal--with a twist	Following from the surprising conclusion of Shadows of Avalon, the Doctor attempts to avoid his pursuers by fitting a randomizer into the TARDIS.  Of course, things don't go quite as planned (do they ever?) and the three time  travelers are separated.  The Doctor finds himself coping with the carnage  unleashed by an apparent invasion of the planet Yquatine, while Fitz finds  himself trapped a month in the past, determined to get off-planet and  escape the future he has already seen.  And Compassion?  Compassion is . .  . somewhere else.<br />I felt nervous as I began reading this novel.  I hate  trying to remember all the details about alien civilizations, and Nick  Walters throws in so many names and descriptions of different races, I knew  I'd get lost.  Fortunately, it wasn't necessary to remember all that stuff  to enjoy the story.  Walters does a good enough job reminding the reader of  the important stuff that I never felt lost or confused.  He was also very  good at keeping things clear, even though the story jumps constantly  between settings and time frames.<br />Walters does a particularly nice job  with Fitz's sections of the story.  The characters Fitz interacts with seem  fleshed-out and real, and I felt genuine concern towards them.  I knew what  was destined to happen to the planet they were on, and hoped that they  would find some way to escape the destruction.  As with his previous novel,  Dominion, Walters accurately captures the character of the Doctor.<br />After  a number of stories (Interference, Blue Angel, Shadows of Avalon) that have  pushed the Doctor Who format envelope, Fall of Yquatine seems almost tame  by comparison.  While it definitely ties in to the ongoing series  developments, it also tells a very traditional Doctor Who adventure.  It's  fast paced and fun, without being too taxing.  It may not be an example of  Doctor Who excercising its fullest potential, but it's still an enjoyable  read.	2000-05-07
US	52966861	R2LPJE378T5WSU	0563555912	141184880	The Tomb of Valdemar (Doctor Who (BBC))	Books	3	9	9	N	N	A treat for Romana fans	I came to this novel with some mixed feelings.  On the one hand, I'm a huge fan of the team of the Fourth Doctor, K9, and Romana (either one), and looked forward to reading a new adventure of theirs.  On the other hand, so much of their charm is tied up in the performances, I wasn't sure how well  Mr. Messingham would present them on the page.  I've enjoyed his previous  books, but would hardly describe his work as light and charming.  Add to  this the fact that his last book, The Face-Eater, was less than impressive  (thanks to it being a rush job to fill an empty slot on the schedule) and  Tomb of Valdemar was definitely not a sure thing.<br />Fortunately, this book  ranks right up there with Zeta Major as one of Messingham's better Doctor  Who novels.  The story of the Doctor and Romana being sidetracked from  their quest for the Key to Time (available on video from Amazon.com, of  course) to stop a potentially even greater threat to the universe would fit  right in with the TV episodes it is supposed to fit between.  Long time  fans will feel right at home reading about a crazed pseudo-magician/wizard  tapping into forces that he doesn't understand in a mad quest for unlimited  power.  More contemporary fans should enjoy trying to figure out the  politics of the society Messingham has created from the few hints he  reveals here, and the postmodern comments he makes on storytelling in  general, and Doctor Who storytelling in particular, by chosing to structure  this as a story within a story.<br />Unfortunately, while the plot is fairly  gripping, the characters are, for the most part, fairly thin.  Messingham  gives us a good sense of who most of them are, but I never felt like I  truly understood most of their motivations, nor did I particularly care to  find out.  Having said that, he does a great job portraying Romana as the  sheltered Time Lord she was supposed to be on the series, head full of book  learning, but with very little practical experience.  In Tomb of Valdemar,  we see her realizing just how big a universe it is out there, and just how  unprepared to deal with it she realizes she may be.  As a Romana fan, that  aspect, plus the twisty, multilayered plot, was enough to keep me  engaged.<br />I still wish that K9 had been given more to do, though . . .	2000-04-28
US	52966861	R2F09VHT65VKE1	156389484X	144734929	Black Canary/Oracle/ Huntress: Birds of Prey	Books	5	24	26	N	N	Great action	Birds of Prey is one of my favorite comic books.  Not only does it feature two strong female characters who act without the assistance of male heroes, but the stories also read like straightforward adventure stories, rather  than typically fantastic superhero adventures.  The fact that Black Canary  and Oracle exist in a superhero universe is almost completely incidental to  these tales (guest appearances by other Batman characters Catwoman and  Huntress notwithstanding).  The fact that Oracle is a positive role model  for the handicapped is just an added plus.<br />Chuck Dixon's gripping plots  and terse dialogue are ably assisted by a number of talented artists.  Not  only do they manage to draw realistically proportioned women, but they put  those women in equally realistic, real-world settings.<br />In a perfect  world, there would be plenty of superhero comics that appeal to a broader  audience than male superhero readers.  In that perfect world, Birds of Prey  would still be a shining example of quality.	2000-04-13
US	52966861	R17OOO13U409ZM	0671034952	425702718	Meets the Eye (Body of Evidence)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Night of the Living Dead . . . on campus!	Pitting college freshman Jenna Blake and the rest of the Sommerset PD and ME's office against (apparent) zombies who have returned to the dead, Meets the Eye certainly raises the weirdness quotient of the Body of Evidence thrillers another notch.  Nancy Drew was never like this!  When creating his mysteries, Mr. Golden always manages to keep me guessing as to what's  going on.<br />Judging from this book and the last one, Soul Survivor, it  seems as if the focus of the series is shifting from figuring out whodunnit  to just revealing what's going on.  The plots are still interesting, but an  unfortunate side effect seems to be that when the culprit is finally  revealed, it seems to almost come out of left field.  And that's a shame,  because while the killers may be underdeveloped, the regular cast certainly  isn't.<br />While I thought that Soul Survivor tried to wrap up the emotional  scars from the previous book (Thief of Hearts) too quickly, Meets the Eye  moves the characters along at a more natural pace.  Jenna's relationships  with her father, her classmates, and her coworkers are proceeding in a  believable fashion.  Her relationship with Damon Harris continues to grow,  and it'll be interesting to see if her crush with Detective Danny Marciano  raises its ugly head again in later books to interfere with  that.<br />Pathologists Slick and Dyson take on slightly larger roles this  time around, in some surprising ways.  Mr. Golden established early on in  this series that nobody is necessarily safe, that everyone is a potential  victim, and that really helps the suspense this time around.  And, of  course, we get some more of Mr. Golden's grisly murder scenes and--wonder  of wonders--fight scenes that really make violence seem like a bad thing,  instead of glorifying it.<br />I still really enjoy this series, and think  it's appropriate for adults as well as teens.  (Parents of younger readers  might want to check out the levels of violence, gore, and the increasingly  mature language creeping into the books to make sure they're acceptable for  their children.)  I just wish Mr. Golden would get back to creating killers  who are as interesting as his cast of heroes or their methods of killing.	2000-03-23
US	52966861	R1V5WO7TUMMV98	0812575083	936441143	Rolling Thunder Stock Car Racing: Race To Glory	Books	4	2	2	N	Y	Darker, but still fun	What the authors promise is true: this is a darker, more introspective tale.  By flashing forward to Jodell's life today, they manage to foreshadow the tragedies without burdening their characters with an  overwhelming sense of dread or foreboding.<br />Despite the tragic  circumstances in this installment, though, readers should still find  everything they enjoyed about the first two books.  Jodell is still the  optimistic young driver who can't dream of ever giving up racing.   Catherine, now his wife, still offers her unflagging love and support  without complaint.  Joe still rates chasing women a close second after  working on Jodell's car, but he's still there when he's needed (although  there are hints this time around that Jodell may insist that Joe decide  more clearly where his priorities are).  And Bubba is still eating  everything he can get his hands on.<br />While this book shifts some of the  focus onto some of the more serious concerns of the team--finding a  sponsor, balancing family responsibilities with the racing life, and the  ver real dangers of the sport--the authors don't give us any shortage of  action.  The racing scenes are every bit as exciting as in the previous two  books.<br />While the Rolling Thunder books may not present a searing insight  into the human condition, they're fun, exciting, and action-packed.  That's  what I'm looking for when I pick one up.  When I read one, the authors make  me keep turning the pages, wanting to see what happens next.  When I finish  one, I want to go immediately on to the next one.  What more could anyone  ask from a stock car racing series?	2000-03-10
US	52966861	R2RNYT8RLR46KW	0812575067	953366994	Rolling Thunder Stock Car Racing: White Lightning	Books	4	4	4	N	N	This book helped make me a racing fan!	As a relative newcomer to stock car racing, I picked up this book because I thought I might better be able to enjoy watching races if I had a sense of the history of the sport, and if I could get some idea of what it is  like for the racers.  This book did a fantastic job of both.  I don't know  what it's really like, driving in a stock car race, but I can't imagine it  feels much different from the way these authors describe it.<br />When I read  the Rolling Thunder books, I find myself getting really caught up in the  emotions of the race.  I root for Jodell to win, and find myself getting  upset when he loses the lead or it looks like he might get in an accident.   I also can't wait to see what happens next in the characters' personal  lives.  That wouldn't happen if the authors didn't do such a great job of  creating likeable, three-dimensional characters.<br />The Rolling Thunder  series might not ever be remembered in the annals of great literature, but  they provide a good, solid couple of hours of entertainment.  As I can  attest, you don't have to be a racing fan to enjoy the books, though after  reading one you just might find yourself wanting to watch a real race.  For  me, these books are like potato chips: they're quick and easy to devour,  and as soon as you're finished, you want another one.	2000-02-20
US	52966861	R2ZDLRMYK948YJ	0812575075	532794790	Road to Daytona (Rolling Thunder)	Books	4	2	2	N	Y	Even better than the first one!	I thought White Lightning was great, but the authors had to pack a lot into it to get to Jodell's first big race by the end of the book.  With all that background out of the way, in Road to Daytona they can concentrate,  for the most part, on the minute details of a single race.  That level of  detail really gives the reader the sense that they are there, watching the  story unfold in front of them, instead of just reading words on a  page.<br />This book particularly gave me insight into the tasks the pit crew  has to do.  Before, on the rare occasions that I would watch a race, I  would think it wasn't that big a deal, filling a car with gas as fast as  they could.  Novice that I was, I couldn't understand why the tires needed  to be changed so often, or the pressures the pit crews work under.  Now,  when I watch the race, I'm almost as fascinated watching the pit crews work  as I am when the cars are on the track.<br />Just as welcome are the subplots  dealing with the personal lives of the characters.  Make no mistake: this  is a series about stock car racing, but I find myself just as interested in  seeing what happens to Jodell Lee and Cathy as I am in finding out who wins  the race.<br />Finally, I appreciate the way the authors work in historical  information about racing without seeming overly pedantic.  They make it  seem like part of the story, rather than shoehorning in a history  lesson.<br />Overall, Rolling Thunder is a really fun series, and the authors  promise that it'll just keep getting better.	2000-02-20
US	52966861	R16HKAEO6EDFLS	0553578294	841298837	Smoker (Atticus Kodiak)	Books	5	8	8	N	Y	Sucks to be Atticus Kodiak . . .	One the things I like the most about bodyguard Atticus Kodiak is the way I can completely admire his moral point of view, and still look at a lot of the problems he has with people and think, &quot;Idiot.&quot;  He's not a  paragon of virtue, and he's not a complete loser.  He's just a guy who gets  more stuff right than he does wrong, which is pretty much how I strive to  live my life.<br />While Greg Rucka's terse yet evocative prose is always  effective, I find myself particularly emotionally involved when he  describes his characters at work, protecting a client.  When I read those  passages, and see how much the danger is disrupting these people's lives, I  can't help but feel sad for them.  Mr. Rucka manages to create characters  so real that I genuinely feel sorry for them, and wish they could lead  normal lives, instead of having to hide out in safe houses and crouch down  in the back seats of bulletproof cars.<br />Having read the first three books  in this series, Smoker is perhaps my favorite story.  It isn't perfect--I  prefered the more morally ambiguous stance that Keeper took on abortion to  Smoker's fairly clear anti smoking/big tobacco story, and I miss Bridgett  Logan, though she gets her own solo story in Shooting at Midnight--but it's  an improvement over the over-the-top events in Finder.  And while Bridgett  doesn't put in an on-stage appearance here, Erika, Kodiak's 17-year-old  ward, makes an adequate substitute.<br />What really makes this story work,  though, are all the details about the bodyguarding profession.  Mr. Rucka  manages to mix drama and humor very effectively, and completely draws the  reader in.	2000-02-20
US	52966861	R2JMWKPP50JJY1	0563555882	425108755	Doctor Who: The Shadows of Avalon	Books	4	18	20	N	N	Regular fans won't want to miss this one!	Popular Doctor Who author Paul Cornell makes a welcome return to the series with this volume, which also features the return of popular supporting character Brigadier Lethbridge-Stewart.<br />When the TARDIS is  destroyed, the Doctor and his companions find themselves in the mythic land  of Avalon, caught up in a war between the Celts and the Fair Folk.  When a  portal is opened up into our world, the British military becomes involved,  and the story begins taking some very dark turns.<br />As usual, Paul  Cornell's true skill lies in his ability to get to the hearts of his  characters.  This time around, the focus is on the Brigadier, grieving for  his lost wife, convinced that life holds nothing more for him.  Naturally,  this despair affects everything and everyone around him, including his  relationship with the Doctor, showing their friendship in a new, different,  and sometimes upsetting light.<br />While this isn't Mr. Cornell's greatest  Doctor Who story--there's a little too much running around and confusing  battle sequences for my tastes--it's still a fun book.  More importantly,  big things are afoot.  The end of this book took me completely by surprise,  and should give this series a new focus and direction for the next year or  so.  Most licensed fiction is content to tread water, telling variations on  the same story over and over again.  With this book, Doctor Who really  looks like it's trying to escape that fate.<br />While this novel wraps up a  story arc that has been running for the last six months, this book gives  enough information that new readers familiar with the Doctor Who series can  jump right in.  One thing is for sure: these characters don't end up in the  same place they started, and Doctor Who fans won't want to miss this  volume.	2000-02-10
US	52966861	R2EQDRMF4FLFDI	0563555904	244707639	Parallel 59 (Doctor Who (BBC))	Books	4	8	8	N	N	A dark, but fun, installment	This is the first novel by both series editor Stephen Cole and co-author Natalie Dallaire, and it's a good, fun, straightforward science fiction adventure.  <br />Slightly reminiscent of the previous book, Frontier Worlds,  in tone, this book begins in media res, with the Doctor and Compassion  separated from Fitz early on.  Fitz winds up in utopian Mechta, while the  Doctor and Compassion find themselves on the planet Skale, where power  blocs called Parallels are engaged in a tenuous, paranoid cold war.   Specifically, they end up in Parallel 59 (no surprise there), which keeps  the population in the dark about other Parallels much like the society in  1984.  Can the Doctor and Compassion uncover 59's Big Secret Project and  its connection to Mechta?  Does a duck quack?<br />Ordinarily, I have trouble  with books that introduce an alien society.  Just trying to remember all  those alien names and picture what everything is supposed to look like  gives me a headache.  The authors keep things fairly straightforward and  recognizable here, which allowed me to concentrate on the story and  characters.  They did a particularly good job bringing the Doctor and  Compassion to life, and Fitz's portrayal was a logical extension of the  character we've seen in other books.  The supporting cast is likeable,  particularly the people in Mechta.<br />The only real letdown came after I'd  finished the book and thought about it.  Once the Big Secret Project's  secret is revealed, it's never really explained why anyone would go to that  much trouble in the first place.  At that point, though, the story was  moving so quickly that I didn't notice it at the time.<br />Doctor Who fans  who prefer stories that play with the formula more, like those by Lawrence  Miles or Paul Magrs, may find this book a little too straightforward for  their tastes.  For those who just want an entertaining Doctor Who story,  this should fill the bill quite nicely.	2000-02-06
US	52966861	R1V6FIUR9FNKN3	0671038281	871690726	Batman: No Man's Land	Books	4	16	17	N	Y	A true Batman epic	Taking place over the course of a whole year, with a huge cast of characters and multiple subplots, No Man's Land is the perfect Batman story to be turned into a novel. Greg Rucka manages to take over fifty separate comics, by many different writers and artists, and not only effectively translate them into prose, but also into one consistent, cohesive narrative. He seems to do a good job introducing the various characters for readers who aren't familiar with all the members of the Batman Family, but I'm probably not the best judge, since I read the comics regularly.<br />Make no mistake: this is a Batman novel for folks who enjoy the character. The whole No Man's Land premise is pretty extreme, but no more so than the idea of a guy dressed as a flying rodent fighting a clown. But who goes looking to stories about costumed superheroes for naturalistic documents of society?<br />In a lot of ways, this is the ultimate Batman story: How does a man who decides to work outside the law function when the system of law breaks down? As a fictional examination of how society would behave if all the traditional infrastructures disappeared, featuring familiar characters from popular culture, this book works just fine. Call it science fiction, call it a metaphor, call it a fantasy or a comic book without pictures. It's still a lot of fun.	2000-01-23
US	52966861	RWBMQH1FSM3K	0786706651	40123285	Wake Up Little Susie: A Mystery (Sam McCain Mysteries)	Books	4	12	12	N	Y	Another Gorman triumph!	This prequel to The Day the Music Died isn't quite as good as the first book, but it's still very, very good.  As usual, Gorman creates a fantastic, vivid cast of characters, each with their own particular quirks  that place them just left of center, and sets them all down in a compelling  murder mystery.  The period detail seems to capture the 50s without being  heavy-handed.  Let's hope there are many more Sam McCain novels to come in  the future.	2000-01-14
US	52966861	RIE0MMJF5FLQK	0679444815	786105285	Timeline	Books	4	4	4	N	Y	Man, that was fun	Like most of Crichton's books, I found Timeline to be a fast-paced, entertaining, exciting adventure story that left me feeling exhilarated, along with giving the sense that I'd learned something about medieval  history.  Each time I finished a chapter, I wanted to find out what  happened next, which is pretty much my definition of compelling.  It reads  like it'll make a great movie, but it makes a pretty good book, too.	2000-01-14
US	52966861	R3M8F5VE9XG00J	0688166180	579504921	The Devil's Workshop: A Novel	Books	4	0	1	N	N	Fast-paced and entertaining	When I see Stephen J. Cannell's name on a TV show or on the cover of a book, I know what I'm going to get.  I know there'll be a tough hero who is some kind of outsider.  I know there'll be a plucky, feisty, attractive  heroine.  And I know there'll be a storyline that may skirt the edges of  plausibility, but will never fail to keep me entertained.  I love watching  Cannell play with that basic formula.  It's like watching a master write  haiku: the format is the same; it's the variety within the formula that  keeps me coming back for more.  The Devil's Workshop is classic Cannell.   Many have tried, but nobody tells those sorts of stories as entertainingly  or as well as him.	2000-01-06
US	52966861	R180LCR34BPUT4	0553577689	663255288	Men in Black: The Green Saliva Blues	Books	3	0	1	N	Y	As much fun as the movie	I really enjoyed the Men in Black movie.  I was hoping for the same sort of fun in this book, and that's exactly what I got.  Dean Wesley Smith does a good job capturing the feel of the film, and I hope this is only the  first of a series.<br />So why only three stars?  Well, in a perfect world, I  would have prefered that the characters be portrayed a little more in  depth, and that the plot be a little more complex.  Of course, I had the  same complaints about the movie the first time I saw it, until I decided  that wasn't the point.  With that in mind, Men in Black fans should get a  kick out of this novel.	1999-06-25
US	52966861	R2I5DJP7W7LV5U	038529929X	313045692	Hannibal: A Novel	Books	5	2	2	N	Y	Not just a rehash of previous volumes	Thanks to the popularity garnered by the Silence of the Lambs film, Hannibal became the literary equivalent of The Phantom Menace: an eagerly-anticipated sequel, a long time in coming, that has to not only  satisfy as a novel in its own right, but also live up to ten years of  nostalgia and anticipation.<br />What Harris delivers is an exciting,  suspenseful novel that is as bizarre and baroque compared to Silence of the  Lambs as Silence was to Red Dragon.  It starts off a little slow compared  to the previous two books, but that's because, unlike the other two, it  doesn't begin with a hunt for a serial killer in progress.  That's one of  it's strengths, that it doesn't duplicate past successes, but that's what  will disappoint readers looking for more of the same.<br />By the time you  reach the climax, the book becomes un-put-downable.  The finale is  unpredictable and unsettling, but probably the only satisfying ending the  story could possibly have had.<br />To paraphrase James Ellroy, this book is  hours of fun for the whole family, if your family name is Manson.	1999-06-21
US	52966861	RN501GEDF9KFW	0563555742	486417986	Dominion (Doctor Who Series)	Books	4	4	4	N	Y	X-Files meets Doctor Who	Nick Walters makes a stunning debut in his first solo Doctor Who novel.  With its dark, contemporary Earth setting and sinister, mysterious military figures, this is maybe the closest a Doctor Who story has felt to an  X-Files tale.  Separated from Sam and the TARDIS, the Doctor and Fitz have  to rely on their wits alone as they try to uncover the truth behind the  mysterious disappearances plaguing a small area in Sweden.  <br />Between the  previous book (Revolution Man) and this, Fitz has really come into his own  as a character and a companion.  This story nicely follows on from events  in Revolution Man, while still being a strong story on its own, and leads  nicely into the next book.  This series is finally starting to feel like a  series, rather than a collection of separate adventures, and I couldn't be  more pleased.	1999-06-05
US	52966861	R2ER2X6CW6BIKT	0590353403	667539744	Harry Potter And The Sorcerer's Stone	Books	5	0	0	N	Y	As if this book needs another rave review . . .	What can I say that hasn't already been said by everyone else?  This is the sort of book I would probably have loved when I was a kid.  Now that I'm an adult, I still loved it.  To me, that's the hallmark of a great  children's book: one that doesn't talk down to its audience, one that can  be read and enjoyed by readers of all ages.	1999-06-05
US	52966861	R2GHQCIBN6CCFD	0375500081	193085718	Turn of the Century: A Novel	Books	5	1	1	N	Y	The decade that was . . .	Kurt Andersen effectively and cleverly distills some of the key fascinations of the 1990s in this fast-paced, entertaining novel.  The humor and satire doesn't come from all the product and celebrity  name-dropping, but from how seamlessly Anderson slips in his own,  over-the-top inventions, showing just how absurd the real world of  computers and the media truly is.	1999-06-05
US	52966861	R1CW2ZDHOYUYV	0671034928	138309114	Body Bags: A Body of Evidence Thriller #1	Books	5	1	1	N	Y	More than just Nancy Drew on campus!	As a huge Christopher Golden fan, no way was I going to pass up a new, original series from him.  As good as his licensed books are, I'd much rather see him working on his own characters.  Since this was labeled  &quot;young adult,&quot; I was afraid it wouldn't be much more than a Nancy  Drew on campus-type series.  Of course, maybe if I'd bothered to read the  book description and seen the bit about insect larvae, I would have had a  better idea about how wrong I was . . .<br />While there's nothing  particularly inappropriate for a younger audience in this novel, Golden  doesn't pull any punches.  At turns gruesome, exciting, and hilarious, this  is a book that readers of all ages can enjoy.<br />Golden has created a  collection of colorful, vivid characters, each with a distinct and  individual personality.  Even without the mystery plots, I'd still be  interested in reading this series, just to see what happens to the cast.   I'm eagerly awaiting the next book in the series.	1999-05-16
US	52966861	RK2LKPW1KM5B1	0380791889	878813782	The Searchers, Book Two: Empire of Dust (The Searchers, No 2)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	The plot thickens	Too often, the second part of a trilogy is also the dullest part.  Everything is set up in the first book, and everything is resolved in the third, so the second can't do anything but mark time.<br />Empire of Dust  manages to escape the curse of the second volume.  It answers several  questions and resolves some issues from the first novel, while setting up  new situations for what promises to be an exciting conclusion.  The author  manages to remind the reader of relevant information from the first book  without screaming, &quot;This is a recap.&quot;  This book could probably  be read independently, though it does say Book Two, right on the cover, so  nobody should be upset if they feel like they're coming in on the middle of  the story . . .<br />This series continues to out-X-Files the X-Files.  My  only fear is that once everything is revealed, it'll just seem goofy.  I'm  willing to take that chance, though.  I've got to find out how this story  ends!	1999-05-11
