US	52963744	R2YFWKWGB03ANV	0761832211	357802601	The Capitalist Manifesto: The Historic, Economic and Philosophic Case for Laissez-Faire	Books	3	14	54	N	N	The Case for Capitalism	Andrew Bernstein is a professional philosopher and an advocate of the philosophy of Ayn Rand, known as \\"Objectivism.\\"  Prof. Bernstein is also associated with the Ayn Rand Institute (ARI), which advocates Rand's philosophy in its most consistent (some would say dogmatic) form.      This book is quite lengthy (500 pages if you include the introduction and other stuff) but is pitched toward the beginner.  The subtitle of the book (\\"the historic, economic and philosophic case for laissez-faire\\") says it well.  Prof. Bernstein is presenting a full-orbed defense of capitalism.  The philosophic case rests almost entirely on Rand's Objectivism, which is discussed rather uncritically.    THE CAPITALIST MANIFESTO (TCM) has many merits.  Most significantly, Prof. Bernstein focuses considerable attention on those businessmen, inventors and creators whose abilities have been unleashed thanks to capitalism.  Many defenses of capitalism omit this crucial aspect of the case for capitalism.    In addition, for a work from the ARI orbit, TCM is fairly broad-minded.  As just one example, Murray Rothbard is even mentioned in the footnotes (albeit for his work on monetary theory and the Great Depression).  Other advocates of capitalism are also given their due. Unfortunately thinkers who fall within the general Objectivist orbit but aren't associated with the ARI aren't mentioned (the \\"sanction\\" issue and all that, I suppose).  There is even an attempt to place Objectivism within the philosophic tradition of the Enlightenment.  Great praise is heaped on thinkers such as Locke and Newton.  Hume is even mentioned favorably for his support of limited government.  Even here, Prof. Bernstein's commitment to Objectivism gets the better of him.  No mention is made of Locke and Newton's belief in Christianity (more orthodox in the case of Locke than Newton).  You wouldn't know from Prof. Bernstein that Locke wrote a book called THE REASONABLENESS OF CHRISTIANITY and Newton a work on Daniel's prophecies.  In any event, the Enlightenment focus of this book seems to be a departure from Rand, who placed greater emphasis on the Renaissance as a possible precursor to Objectivism.      Of course, Prof. Bernstein's openness has its limits.  He always refers to Rand as \\"Ayn Rand.\\"  Rand's \\"intellectual heir\\" Leonard Peikoff has also been promoted to the exclusive \\"full name\\" status by Prof. Bernstein.    TCM is comprehensive and worth reading, even if you are familiar with Rand or capitalist apologetics.  All the same, I couldn't help thinking as I read this book that its arguments would have been strengthened in Prof. Bernstein had relied more on the insights of non-Objectivist thinkers.  A good dose of Misesian praxeology and methodological individualism helps the newcomer overcome many of the attractions of socialist thought.  Prof. Bernstein leaves too much of the \\"heavy lifting\\" to Rand and his book suffers for it.	2005-10-01
US	52963744	RTR1OKF2Z65GE	0898709334	546113681	A History of Apologetics	Books	4	16	17	N	N	Quality Makes Up For Uneven Coverage	Avery Dulles (son of John Foster) is a distinguished American theologian.  A convert to Roman Catholicism, he was the first American priest named a Cardinal on account of his contributions to theology (putting him in the rank of distinguished European theologians such as Henri de Lubac, Jean Danielou and Hans Urs von Balthasar.)<br /><br />A HISTORY OF APOLOGETICS may be the only work available in English that surveys apologetics (that is the defense of the Christian faith) from the New Testament to contemporary times.  Dulles treats both Catholic and Protestant thinkers, although the emphasis is on Catholic ones.  For example, Calvin and Luther get a combined total of about five pages, which is the same as the eccentric Jesuit Pierre Teilhard de Chardin.<br /><br />This emphasis is particularly noticeable when Dulles gets to contemporary Protestantism.  Cornelius van Til and Gordon Clark are rather uncritically grouped together in spite of their legendary dustup in the 1940s.  Neither gets nearly as much space of liberals such as Bultmann, Tillich and the brothers Neibuhr.  For those who have been introduced to apologetics through studying orthodox Protestants, this part of the book will be a disappointment.<br /><br />I was also surprised that Cardinal Dulles didn't discuss Eastern Orthodox thinkers.  What about Berdyaev, or more recent thinkers such as Fr. Seraphim Rose or Nicholas Arseniev?<br /><br />The above limitations shouldn't detract from the value of this work.  The discussion of apologetic controversies in France from 1600-1800 is worth the price of the book.	2005-10-01
US	52963744	RIMTQHQW0CYYM	0930073185	347077241	Human Action: A Treatise on Economics	Books	5	110	117	N	N	Mises's Greatest Work	HUMAN ACTION is the most important work of economic or social theory written in the twentieth century.  It is also the most important defense of laissez faire capitalism ever written.   <br /> <br />Ludwig von Mises (1881-1973) was born in the old Austro-Hungarian Empire.  A prolific writer, he wrote two seminal works (SOCIALISM and THEORY OF MONEY AND CREDIT) before fleeing the Nazis.  While living in Switzerland, he published an early version of this work in German in 1940.  Over time, Mises added to it and rewrote it in English.  Yale University Press published HUMAN ACTION in 1949. <br /> <br />This book isn't just a work of economics, but a full-orbed \\"science of human action.\\"  Starting from a few principles that Mises believed to be a priori, he deduces an entire body of economic theory.  The first 200 pages of this 900-page work are heavily philosophical.  I would not recommend readers skip this section.  You can't understand what Mises was for unless you understand why he was for it.  Mises' final work, THE ULTIMATE FOUNDATIONS OF ECONOMIC SCIENCE, deals with these methodological issues on a more elementary level. <br /> <br />HUMAN ACTION is a difficult work to read, particularly for those with minimal training in economics.  Murray Rothbard's MAN, ECONOMY, AND STATE covers similar ground (at least as far as economics is concerned) but is more suitable for the beginner.  Israel Kirzner has written the best introductory work on Mises.	2005-09-10
US	52963744	R2R4EBFNPSCBZC	0898707021	951449127	Milestones: Memoirs, 1927-1977	Books	4	12	12	N	N	Too Brief	With the elevation of Cardinal Joseph Ratzinger to the papacy this year, the Roman Catholic Church has not only elevated an experienced bureaucrat, but a theologian of the first rank.  I've been reading a swath of Ratzinger's books, but I decided to start with his memoirs to get a better understanding of \\"Ratzinger the man.\\"    Ratzinger was born into a Catholic and anti-Nazi family in Germany near the Austrian border.  At the end of World War II he was drafted into the German army, but deserted.  He was invited to the Second Vatican Council in the 60s.  Even if he hadn't become a confidant to JP II, he would have been seen as one of the more important Catholic theologians of the century.  (For example, his INTRODUCTION TO CHRISTIANITY was translated into English in 1969.)    This book covers Ratzinger's life up to the time he was named bishop in 1977.  Ratzinger's studies and career intersected with many of the most important names in Catholic theology, such as Michael Schmaus, Hans Kung, Romano Guardini, Karl Rahner and Hans Urs von Balthasar.  The book makes for pleasant reading, but if you take out the photos, it's only 115 pages long.      What I found most interesting was that in a couple of places Ratzinger hints that his career advancement was delayed because certain (unnamed) church officials and theologians suspected he was something of a liberal.  If Ratzinger doesn't want to name names, at least he could tell us what the controversy was about.  Inquiring minds want to know.	2005-09-10
US	52963744	R2PNBASF7M0X46	0913966878	445645319	Freedom and Federalism	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Think Locally, Govern Locally	Although published in 1959, Felix Morley's FREEDOM AND FEDERALISM remains an invaluable book from which to learn about what might broadly be called \\"the American system of government.\\" <br /> <br />The American system rested on two pillars: individual freedom and decentralized government.  Americans today often look to the Supreme Court to defend individual liberty; the founders, however, believe that freedom was best protected by strong local government, which would serve as a check on the power of the federal government.  To a certain extent, a belief in states rights survives even today.  While we may hear an occasional call for the elimination of the Electoral College, I've never heard anyone demand that Senate seats be divided based on population, so that California will have greater representation than Rhode Island. <br /> <br />Morley focuses on changes in the United States, often from the day-to-day political perspective.  However, he doesn't leave out philosophical concerns.  Like many conservatives, Morley sees Rousseau as a chief villain.  His concept of the general will provide the philosophical foundation for transferring unlimited power to the central government.  Morely also shows how centralized government has the tendency to absorb the functions of state government and limit individual freedom. <br /> <br />The most significant change took place as the result of the Civil War, which dramatically increased the power of the federal government.  The fourteenth amendment resulted in a transfer of authority from the states to the federal government.  Curiously, Morley seems to accept the claim that the fourteenth amendment \\"incorporates\\" the Bill of Rights, thus vesting jurisdiction over just about everything in the hands of the Supreme Court.  Although I haven't made up my mind on this issue, the late Raoul Berger made a compelling case that the scope of the fourteenth amendment was much more limited.  (See the work of Michael Kent Curtis for a different perspective.) <br />	2005-09-04
US	52963744	R3K8E9DEVX7O05	0802828159	82431211	The Science of God	Books	4	39	46	N	N	Not a Landmark, but Worth Reading	Alister McGrath recently completed his three-volume work A SCIENTIFIC THEOLOGY (ST).  The series focuses on the relationship to religion and science, particularly at the methodological level.  Now Prof. McGrath has come out with THE SCIENCE OF GOD, a smaller work that summarizes the findings of his larger series. <br /> <br />I've reviewed ST so I won't go into great detail.  If you are interested in ST, I would start with THE SCIENCE OF GOD.  If you've read the full series, it's also worth reading.  ST was long on case studies but short on argument, so reading SG helps you follow the thread of Prof. McGrath's arguments much better. <br /> <br />As I've mentioned in previous reviews, Prof. McGrath is always a pleasure to read, but the quality of his work suffers because he publishes so much.  Even in this work, there is too much repetition.  Within the space of thirteen pages we are introduced to T. F. Torrance's \\"landmark work THEOLOGICAL SCIENCE (1969), \\"1969 landmark work THEOLOGICAL SCIENCE,\\" and \\"landmark 1969 work THEOLOGICAL SCIENCE.\\" <br />	2005-08-20
US	52963744	R1UIQVM22AK9II	080102451X	696441166	Studying the Historical Jesus: A Guide to Sources and Methods	Books	5	7	9	N	N	An Introduction to Jesus	If you are interested in learning about the historical Jesus, this book might be the best place to start.  Darrell Bock, a professor at Dallas Theological Seminary, presents a concise introduction to the background material you'll need to study Jesus.  Prof. Bock reviews the references to Jesus outside of the NT, the chronology of Jesus' life, methods of interpretation, and the history, sociology and politics of Palestine.  There is also a good discussion of the various quests for Jesus.  The approach is conservative, but not uncritically so.   <br /> <br />It's important to realize that this book is introductory in nature.  Some of the discussion is rather thin.  As an example, Prof. Bock discusses Jewish Midrash, but makes no mention of its role in interpretation, e.g. the claim of Gundry and others that the infancy narratives are Midrash.  If you've read one or two New Testament introductions, you probably won't learn too much new. <br />	2005-07-03
US	52963744	R2VALNI454QXFY	039331524X	923776388	The Godless Constitution: The Case Against Religious Correctness	Books	2	59	76	N	N	The Agnostic Constitution	Isaac Kramnick and R. Laurence Moore set out in 1996 to defend the American principle of church-state relations, which they take to mean a rather strict view of church-state separation.  Tracing the principle from Roger Williams and John Locke through the founders to recent times, they argue that the Christian right misrepresents the Constitution and the First Amendment.    Certainly a corrective to some of the rhetoric of the religious right is warranted.  One occasionally hears the claim that the Constitution is a \\"Christian document,\\" that the founders were all devout Christians, and that America was founded as a \\"Christian nation.\\"      As our authors point out, at the time of the Constitution most states had established churches and religious tests for office.  The Constitution, by outlawing religious tests for federal offices and omitting references to God as a source of authority was a definite break from practice.  For this reason, many opponents of the Constitution labeled it a \\"godless\\" document.  And far from being uniformly orthodox, many (although certainly not all) of the founders were hostile to traditional (that is Trinitarian) Christianity.     There are two problems with this work, one methodological and the other factual.  By its own terms, the First Amendment applies only to the federal government.  (An attempt by Madison to make it binding on the states failed.)  It wasn't until the twentieth century that the Supreme Court held that the fourteenth amendment applied the Bill of Rights to the states.  That being the case, it is likely that part of the goal of the Constitution was to leave religion where it existed - with the states.    That leads to my second complaint: a failure to discuss any evidence that is contrary to our authors' thesis.  Their discussion of Thomas Jefferson is typical.  Our authors dutifully tell us that he didn't proclaim days of prayer or thanksgiving as president.  Yet they don't tell us that as governor of Virginia he proclaimed a day of prayer in 1779.  Even as president, Jefferson attended church services at the House of Representatives, and signed a law providing for a missionary and a church to the Kaskaskia Indians.  Nor do they tell us that in his second inaugural address he stated that:    \\"In matters of religion, I have considered that its free exercise is placed by the constitution independent of the powers of the general [federal] government. I have therefore undertaken, on no occasion, to prescribe the religious exercises suited to it; but have left them, as the constitution found them, under the direction and discipline of state or church authorities acknowledged by the several religious societies.\\"       Since Jefferson said something similar in the Kentucky and Virginia resolutions, his view of church-state relations was consistent with his federalism.  If there is any evidence that Jefferson would have supported federal court involvement in state matters such as prayer in school or the posting of the Ten Commandments, our authors don't seem to have it.  (And the same goes for attempts to use the federal court to prevent the teaching of \\"secular humanism\\" in the public schools.)    The discussion of James Madison illustrates the problem in reverse.  Madison was always running into problems with Congress over church-state issues.  Congress thought that paid chaplains, religious charters and federal aid to churches were permissible under the First Amendment, much to Madison's consternation.  It doesn't occur to our authors that perhaps most people at the time didn't consider the Constitution so godless after all.  This makes me wonder if the authors' failure to mention the Blaine Amendment (which sought to forbid state aid to religion) was just an oversight.  While our authors have a fascinating discussion of an attempt to amend the Constitution to declare America a Christian nation, that the Blaine amendment failed (after the ratification of the fourteenth amendment no less) isn't worthy of mention. One can interpret this failure in various ways, but at least some who voted for the amendment apparently believed that it was necessary to amend the Constitution to make it sufficiently \\"godless.\\"    I have no complaint with authors who write popular books, but this book's failure to include footnotes or discuss responsible authors who take an opposing approach is particularly striking.  While our authors take on deep thinkers such as Jerry Falwell and Pat Robertson, nowhere do they interact with scholars who have challenged the separationist line, such as Robert Cord and Daniel Driesbach, or have a more sympathetic role of the influence of Christianity on the founders such as Ellis Sandoz.    Even a cursory review of history shows the benefits of the separation of church and state.  Defending the principle by one-sided scholarship does no one any good.	2005-06-07
US	52963744	R2JA8GT2MRMCPB	0801027071	678081610	The Face of New Testament Studies: A Survey of Recent Research	Books	4	17	18	N	N	A Library In A Book	It's incredible how many scholarly books and articles are written every year on the New Testament.  Even if you had the time to keep up with all the research, you probably wouldn't have access to all the relevant material unless you lived next to a seminary with a large library.      A book that summarizes the recent findings of NT research and makes it accessible to the layman would be tremendously valuable. To a large extent, Scot McKnight and Grant Osborne have accomplished this in THE FACE OF NEW TESTAMENT STUDIES: A SURVEY OF RECENT RESEARCH.  This book collects essays by leading NT scholars hitting on all the major areas of NT studies.  The contributors are a mix of conservatives (Blomberg and Twelftree) and moderates-liberals (Dunn and Chilton).    By \\"recent\\" the authors don't mean just the last five years.  For example, McKnight's article on the Jesus of history discusses Bultmann and Dodd, although more time is spent on N. T. Wright and J. P. Meier.  The articles are all informative, but a couple (those on textual criticism and Greek grammar) are a bit too technical for the casual reader.	2005-05-21
US	52963744	R3B9HJ9QTFAN7Z	0895264978	757803907	The Theme is Freedom: Religion, Politics, and the American Traditions	Books	4	13	17	N	N	The Liberal History Lesson	Veteran journalist M. Stanton Evans begins THE THEME IS FREEDOM by describing what he calls the \\"liberal history lesson\\": The freedom and intellectual progress that existed in the ancient world was snuffed out by the Middle Ages only to be reborn in the Renaissance and the Enlightenment.  It came to fruition in the United States, whose founders created a secular nation based on enlightenment ideas. They enshrined this in the first amendment, creating a \\"separation of church and state\\" justifying federal court intervention in everything from prayer in school to the posting of the Ten Commandments on public property.  Who knew that a bunch of dead white guys could turn out to be such a progressive lot.    As Evans tells it, this view is almost entirely wrong.  Religion (specifically Christianity) has had a positive role in western culture.  The Middle Ages were in fact times of advancement in both science and politics, in which decentralized control was the norm.  The Puritans combined the medieval ideas of decentralized control with representative government.  Evans cites studies showing that the Puritans in New England permitted a much larger percentage of the population to vote than any European nation.     Evans' discussion of the founding of the United States and the drafting of the first amendment may be most interesting to readers, since church-state issues pop up from time to time.  Evans, relying on the work of M.E. Bradford, argues that most of the founders belonged to orthodox churches.  He also argues that at the time of the revolution most of the states had some form of established or semi-established churches.  Many also required voters or office holders to hold religious beliefs.  Since the first amendment applied to the federal government only (\\"Congress shall make no law . . .\\") the intent of the first amendment was to prevent the federal government from interfering with state establishments of religion.  I find Evans' discussion generally persuasive,but the evidence is subject to different conclusions.  If in fact the majority of the states had established religions (and religious requirements to hold office) then one might see the first amendment constituting a rather clear break with precedent.  Even more so, the religious test ban (Article 6) was fairly radical for its time.  Church membership is somewhat nebulous as well, since membership doesn't always mean agreement.  It is certainly the case that many of the leading lights of the founding period weren't fully orthodox believers, on the other hand only a relatively few were probably deists.  Evans didn't have the space to discuss whether the fourteenth amendment applies the first amendment's restrictions to the states, but does direct the reader to the important work of the late Raoul Berger.	2005-05-18
US	52963744	R11KUTG5I8ZKN6	0830815449	820975061	The Jesus Quest: The Third Search for the Jew of Nazareth	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Jesus Scholarship: The State of the Art	Many people read the Gospels as accurate descriptions of the life of Jesus, assuming that the Gospels accurately report what happened and do not omit any significant teachings of Jesus or events in his life.  Since the late 1700's, historical criticism has challenged the accuracy of the New Testament portrayal of Jesus, thus beginning the First Quest for the historical Jesus.  We are now in the Third Quest, which begin in the 1970's following the decline of Bultmannian existentialism.  As in the first two Quests, the Third Quest offers an interesting array of novel interpretations and conservative responses. <br /> <br />Ben Witherington set forth to chronicle the Third Quest in THE JESUS QUEST (1995).  Witherington, a moderately conservative NT scholar with an impressive list of publications, is certainly up to the job.  This book is more than just a survey of the various big names associated with the Third Quest (Crossan, Borg, Sanders, etc.).  Witherington also discusses these writers within the larger issues that have dominated the Third Quest (particularly eschatology, Judaism, and social life in Galilee).  Also, he introduces readers to lesser-known studies such as Graham Twelftree's JESUS THE EXORCIST.  Simply put, this book is informative on many levels. <br /> <br />The Third Quest shows signs of winding down.  Books without end are still written about Jesus, but radically new approaches are hard to come by.  So while Witherington's book came out ten years ago, it isn't as out of date as it might seem.  Of the books that have appeared since then, my favorites are: McKnight, A NEW VISION FOR ISRAEL; Allison, JESUS OF NAZARETH: MILLENARIAN PROPHET; and Twelftree, JESUS: THE MIRACLE WORKER.  <br />	2005-04-17
US	52963744	R3RBN3UQ7FA424	0865973938	868736038	Rational Man	Books	5	25	25	N	N	Act Rationally	Henry Veatch's RATIONAL MAN is both an introduction to ethics and an introduction to Aristotelian ethics.  Although published in 1962, the book remains one of the best introductions to ethics.  It's written in non-technical language and contains plenty of examples from literature and life. <br /> <br />Following Aristotle, Veatch develops a theory of ethics broadly within the natural law tradition.  Contrary to the skeptical or relativistic approach, man can have ethical knowledge.  Ethics is based on human nature and the goal (\\"end\\") of man's life determines what is right.  For man, that end is \\"intelligent living\\" or the \\"examined life.\\"  Veatch disagrees with Aristotle, however, in arguing that a life of contemplation is not ethically superior to intelligence applied to the problems of everyday life. <br /> <br />Along the way, Veatch discusses a number of questions and counterarguments, such as the \\"is/ought\\" problem, utilitarianism, whether a belief in moral absolutes leads to intolerance, and the possibility of ethics without God.  In a few places I thought Veatch skimmed over objections too lightly (for example, the obvious counterargument that crooks like Goebbels and Stalin were intelligent in their own way), but this is a minor complaint. <br /> <br />The Liberty Fund edition contains a useful introduction by Douglas Rasmussen.  Veatch (1911-1999) was an important voice in the twentieth century Aristotelian renaissance and those who know him only through this book will be impressed with his list of publications in most areas of philosophy <br />	2005-04-15
US	52963744	R1XE25HF8OHX0Y	156000066X	509513918	America's British Culture (Library of Conservative Thought)	Books	4	10	10	N	N	The Anglo-American Culture	As Russell Kirk notes, less than 20 percent of Americans have British blood, but if you took away all the elements of British culture from America, it wouldn't be America. <br /> <br />In AMERICA'S BRITISH CULTURE, Kirk provides a quick run through of the various influences of British culture on the America.  Whether it's the common law, representative government or the immense heritage of English literature, one need only reflect for a moment on how important British culture has been on American life.  <br /> <br />This book covers familiar ground and those who have read THE ROOTS OF AMERICAN ORDER probably won't learn all that much.  At the same time it is filled with interesting facts and provocative theories.  For example, Kirk argues that that America's political institution owes little to the ancient world.  It was from their English background that they learned representative government.  Once independence was gained, the states carried over their institutions.  Connecticut and Rhode Island transformed their Royal charters into constitutions, simply striking out references to the king.  This is a familiar theme in Kirk: the American Revolution was essentially conservative.	2005-04-05
US	52963744	R32IG0HOVSXQOB	0802842127	38259334	A New Vision for Israel: The Teachings of Jesus in National Context (Studying the Historical Jesus)	Books	4	14	15	N	N	Jesus: Prophet of Israel's Renewal	Many presentations of Jesus describe him as a wandering sage, dispensing wisdom (such as egalitarianism) congenial to the contemporary ear.  Other presentations focus on Jesus' teaching within the Judaism of his day, but see it as so uneventful that it wouldn't have provoked the Jewish leadership of his time.  Scot McKnight argues that any credible picture of Jesus must: (1) explain Jesus in his Jewish context; and (2) explain why Jesus' teaching aroused such opposition that he was crucified.    McKnight discusses Jesus' view of God, the present kingdom, the future kingdom and Jesus' ethics.  Some of this material is familiar (such as the review of the present/future kingdom in terms of Schweitzer, Dodd, Manson and the like) but even here the discussion is informative.     McKnight's position is that Jesus was an eschatological prophet of Israel's renewal.  Jesus was unhappy about the direction of Israel and he offered national renewal based on table fellowship, forgiveness of sins and a more intimate relationship with the father in which those who followed God would form a reconstituted Israel.  His appointing the Twelve to lead a renewed Israel and his occupation of the Temple were obvious claim of authority that challenged the Jewish leadership.      The most interesting portion of the book is McKnight's discussion of the future kingdom.  The future kingdom, which was imminent, involved the overthrow of the Romans, the restoration of the twelve tribes, and the coming of God in full glory.  Jesus didn't know exactly when this would occur, but he knew that it would occur within a generation.  McKnight argues that Jesus \\"did not see past 70 A.D.\\" and that his predictions were fulfilled in 70 A.D., when the Romans sacked Jerusalem.  This view is often called \\"preterism\\" and McKnight's presentation of it in this book is the first presentation by a mainstream publisher of which I'm aware.    This position has certain things to commend to it; in particular it resolves claims that Jesus was mistaken about an imminent end of the world by recasting such prophecies as a judgment on Israel.  Yet it leads to a few problems:    1.  There are certain passages in Jesus' teaching that lead most of McKnight's fellow evangelicals to conclude that some of Jesus' predictions refer to the end of the world.  Many verses susceptible to this interpretation are glossed over.  For example, Jesus taught that there would be judgment of the nations.  McKnight argues that because the Roman Empire constituted most of the known world, Rome's sack of Israel constituted a judgment on the world.  Huh?  And, if Jesus believed that the kingdom involved the overthrow of the Romans, then it's clear that he was mistaken.    2.  The role of the church and the gentiles also becomes problematic.  If Jesus' message was directed exclusively towards Israel, then what of the situation that eventually developed: a church, consisting of predominantly of gentiles?  McKnight discusses the church and the gentiles on a few occasions (none of which is mentioned in the book's crummy index) but how this fits into Jesus' teaching isn't made clear.  McKnight seems to believe that perhaps the most famous statement in the gospels -\\"you are Peter and upon this rock I will build my church\\" - a creation of the church.    This is one of the more interesting books on Jesus that I've read in a while, and it can be read with profit even by those who don't agree with McKnight's A.D. 70 theory.	2005-03-19
US	52963744	R13JIUD6T125QP	0739110365	655995058	The Church and the Market: A Catholic Defense of the Free Economy (Studies in Ethics and Economics)	Books	5	94	105	N	N	Catholics for Freedom	Professor Thomas Woods is an interesting author: a traditionalist Catholic who is also a supporter of the free market economy.  In this book, he presents a Catholic case for the free enterprise system, employing the economics of Ludwig von Mises and Murray Rothbard (neither of whom was religious, much less Catholic.) <br /> <br />It's well known that the Roman Catholic Church has never been a particularly strong supporter of capitalism.  Many popes have stressed the benefits of private property and opposed extreme versions of socialism, but have not realized the positive benefits of Capitalism.  In the past, teachers in the Catholic Church haven't understood the functioning of economic laws.  The always-paradoxical John Paul II, while having a better understanding of the markets processes, supports large-scale government intervention in the economy.  In addition, many Catholics believe that the church's advocacy of the mixed economy is dogma, thus putting Catholic supporters of free enterprise on the same level as those who advocate women priests and the like. <br /> <br />Prof. Woods thus has a lot of work to do.   He first shows the autonomous nature of economic reasoning.  Churchmen are entitled to instruct the faithful on their duties to their fellow man, but lay Catholics are free to make an independent appraisal of the effectiveness of any given plan.  For example, if a churchman tells his flock to help the needy, that's all well and good; if he tells them that the only way to improve the lot of the poor is through minimum wage laws, labor unions, foreign aid and the like, he is making a judgment about how economic laws work.  Woods argues that, from the Catholic perspective, there is no reason to believe that the pope is infallible in his economic prescriptions.  Prof. Woods discusses a large number of subjects, including usury, wages, prices, banking and foreign aid. <br /> <br />My one concern is whether all of Catholic economic teaching fits neatly into Prof. Woods' approach.  Many popes taught in a rather dogmatic way about the need for various interventions in the economy.  One example is the support for laws mandating the closing of stores on Sunday (as well as giving workers the day off).  If popes who advocated these things had been Misesian praxeologists, I doubt they would have come to different conclusions. <br /> <br />The book ends with a strong critique of distributism, which seeks a larger distribution of private property in the hands of workers.  Chesteron and Belloc, among others, advocated distributism.  Many traditionally minded Catholics see distributism as a \\"third way\\" between capitalism and socialism.  But as Prof. Woods points out, the only institution which has the power to redistribute property on a massive scale is the state. <br />	2005-03-12
US	52963744	R2ABGER2LG7BX5	0875520987	714204454	Van Til's Apologetic	Books	5	8	10	N	N	Van Til Made Relatively Easy	Cornelius Van Till (1895-1987) is best known today for his dispute with Gordon Clark concerning the comprehensibility of God and his inspiration for many thinkers in the Christian Reconstruction movement (although I gather Van Til was not in agreement with the politics of men such as R.J. Rushdoony). <br /> <br />Van Til was an apologist for Christianity and an accomplished philosopher.  He earned his Ph.D. from Princeton University, where he studied under Philip Wheelwright.  His apologetic system is often called \\"presuppositionalism\\" and he developed it in numerous books, articles and syllabi. <br /> <br />The central problem in understanding Van Til is the nature of his writings.  He wasn't the clearest of writers and his works tend to get bogged-down into lengthy summaries of other schools and thinkers.  His insights are scattered throughout multiple book and if your goal is to understand the basics of his thought, no particular book is well suited.  Even his introductory THE DEFENSE OF THE FAITH contains a 25-page excursus on a critique of his thought by J. Oliver Buswell, which is particularly out of place given that Van Til's argument is that Buswell didn't understand him. <br />  <br />Fortunately, the late Greg Bahnsen has distilled Van Til's fundamental ideas from the vast corpus of Van Til's writings and arranged them topically with introductions.  Bahnsen was an orthodox Van Tillian, and he interacts with John Frame's semi-revisionist approach to Van Til.  There is a particularly good section containing Van Til's critique of Gordon Clark.  Bahnsen's introduction is quite helpful because he shows the areas of overlap between these two men and then lets Van Til's critique of Clark speak for itself.	2005-02-26
US	52963744	R1FWQEQ2FOKBE4	0809126117	301356147	The Churches The Apostles Left Behind	Books	4	29	34	N	N	The Genesis Of Early Christianity	The genesis of Christianity from the death of the apostles to the sub-apostolic communities is an interesting topic.  The late Raymond Brown wrote three books specifically devoted to this issue: THE CHURCHES THE APOSTLES LEFT BEHIND, ANTIOCH AND ROME (with John P. Meier) and THE COMMUNITY OF THE BELOVED DISCIPLE. Taken as a whole, these three discuss the trajectory of early Christian history from the time of the apostles to the end of the 1st century (or slightly after).  It should be noted that Brown believes that most of the works of the New Testament were written during the final third of the century.  <br /> <br />The CHURCHES THE APOSTLES LEFT BEHIND is probably the best place to start.  The contents of the book were given as lectures in 1980 and are easier to read.  He deals with seven movements: the Pastoral Epistles, Colossians/Ephesians, Luke/Acts, I Peter, Fourth Gospel, the Epistles of John, and Matthew. <br /> <br />Regardless of one's views of the authorship and dates of the books of the New Testament, there is no doubt that the writers were dealing with different situations and, at least in some respects, had different theologies.  While one may try to harmonize the various strands, certain tensions remain.  For example, the Johannine literature mentions the church only a few times, and only then in reference to the local church.  Colossians/Ephesians make reference to the universal church.  The Pastorals concern the teaching church.  And, as Brown notes, one wonders if Paul could have met the requirements for a presbyter-bishop as set forth in the Pastorals given his fiery temper. <br /> <br />These books share the strengths and weaknesses of Brown's approach.  They are well written and informative, but too dismissive of those he disagrees with. <br />	2005-02-25
US	52963744	R2RBYLHZHZHTUN	1882926994	576635547	Roots Of American Order	Books	5	51	51	N	N	The American Cause	Russell Kirk was perhaps the most distinguished American conservative writer of the twentieth century.  His life's pursuit was the question of order: how can society maintain the balance between freedom and license, community and individual.  In later works, Kirk turned to the question of how modern society can retain an allegiance to the permanent things in the face of decay. <br /> <br />THE ROOTS OF AMERICAN ORDER is a massive study that is in many respects the culmination of Kirk's life's work.  Tracing the concept of order from ancient times to nineteenth century America, Kirk highlights those thinkers and ages have provided the United States with her institutions.  Starting with the ancient Israelites and ending with Orestes Brownson (the American Burke who, like Kirk, was a convert to Catholicism) Kirk distills the influence of each on American life.  In a sense there are four cities that influenced America: Jerusalem, Athens, Rome and London. <br /> <br />Kirk even claims some for the American cause that you might not suspect have a role in a conservative history of culture.  Kirk rescues Hume from the caricature of the great skeptic.  Instead, Hume is the moderate skeptic who demolished the rationalist pretenses of the philosophes.  Kirk argues that the founders (including Jefferson) were fundamentally conservative; practical men seeking to preserve the heritage of English culture and institutions rather than create a system of government from scratch like the French revolutionaries. <br /> <br />This book isn't perfect.  I have it on good authority that Kirk was in error in describing the levelers of Cromwell's time as egalitarians.  There are some organizational problems as well, such as the section on the Crusades.  How that episode of history was a factor in America's order isn't exactly made clear. <br /> <br />Russell Kirk is an important thinker who has certainly not been given his due, particularly by the contemporary conservative movement.  Too much interested in the permanent things, Kirk's genteel writings are out of place in the \\"take no prisoners\\" world of contemporary conservative journalism.  However, there are some signs of a revival of interest in Kirk's thought, most recently by Wes McDonald's recent study.  A more basic statement of his creed can be found in his work THE AMERICAN CAUSE. <br /> <br />This edition contains an interesting, albeit too brief, introduction by the distinguished historian Forrest McDonald.	2005-02-24
US	52963744	R1K5CONP3J45UJ	0877847185	801186084	The Origins of New Testament Christology	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Concise and Informative Overview	If you are looking for a concise overview of New Testament Christology (that is the NT teaching on the person of Christ) this book by I. Howard Marshall is a good place to start.  In a limited number of pages Marshall provides a background study, a discussion of previous works (such as V. Taylor and O. Cullmann), a discussion of Jesus self-conception, and an overview of the various \\"titles\\" (Lord, Christ, Son of Man, and Son of God).   <br /> <br />The approach is generally conservative, but Marshall interacts with other views.  Typically he tells you the various options that are common today, including the liberal ones.  For example, Geza Vermes is mentioned in the notes repeatedly. <br /> <br />The book came out in 1976 and was updated in 1990.  Hopefully Dr. Marshall (who just completed a massive NT theology) will update this book again. <br />	2005-02-21
US	52963744	R386S6F1WEKTHD	0805738509	634594903	The Conservative Movement (Social Movements Past and Present)	Books	5	13	14	N	N	The Conservative Wars, Circa 1992	Unless you've been living under a rock, you've probably heard that there is a political movement called \\"neoconservatism\\" which pushed for the current war in Iraq.  What is neoconservatism and how does it differ from conservatism?  And who are the \\"paleoconservatives\\"?    I don't know of a recent book that discusses this question, but this 1992 work by paleoconservative theoretician Paul Gottfried is a good place to start.    To simplify matters considerably, paleoconservatism is a political theory that traces its roots back to the Old Right and lions of that movement such as Russell Kirk, Robert Nisbett and Richard Weaver.  The paleocons, however, have a populist edge that wasn't found in the Old Right.  The paleocons support free enterprise (although not dogmatically), advocate a non-interventionist foreign policy (again not dogmatically) and oppose most immigration (dogmatically).    The taxonomy of the neocons is more difficult.  At least some were influenced by political philosopher Leo Strauss and had roots in the left (and at times far left).   Many of the neocons operate from more liberal presuppositions, namely universalism and egalitarianism.  They support free enterprise (although not dogmatically), a \\"globalist\\" foreign policy (generally dogmatically), and immigration (with various degrees of religious fervor).  Often it seems as if neoconservatives are the classic case of liberals \\"mugged by reality\\": things were fine until about 1968, when all hell broke loose.    The neoconservatives are highly influential in what's left of the conservative movement.  One periodical of the Old Right now runs foreign policy articles claiming \\"creative destruction is our [the U.S.'s] middle name\\" and praising the growth of \\"expressive individualism\\" in Middle East music videos.  The neoconservatives are more numerous, but I agree with the late Russell Kirk that you have to wonder how much of their writing will be read 15 years hence.     The dispute between the neos andpaleos came to the forefront in the first Iraq war.  Many of the paleos, feeling that the Cold War was over, thought it was time to take a less interventionist foreign policy.  The neocons supported the war.  During the Clinton years, most of the neocons advocated involvement in the Balkan wars supporting, of all things, a war for \\"human rights\\" and cultural diversity.    Things spun further out of control with the Second Iraq War, which saw the neocons taking the lead and advocating an explicitly Wilsonian foreign policy.  Unfortunately, some of the paleos attacked the neos (many of whom are Jewish) for their support for Israel, neos attacked the paleos for being \\"unpatriotic\\" and an intelligent dialogue on these issues has became all but impossible.	2005-02-21
US	52963744	R13TASG0W55LQ2	080912081X	416320015	Jesus the Christ	Books	4	16	30	N	N	Comprehensive If One-Sided	Walter Kasper was, prior to his elevation as Bishop by John Paul II, a professor of theology.  John Paul recently named Kasper a cardinal and he currently is the Vatican's chief spokesman for Jewish-Christian dialogue.    Kasper's JESUS THE CHRIST (1974) remains one of the more comprehensive surveys of Christology in print.  All of the central issues in Christology are touched upon.  The focus is on the New Testament teaching, but there is discussion of later doctrinal developments and Kasper interacts with other theologians (such as Bultmann and Tillich).    What is most surprising is how liberal this work is.  Kasper doesn't have much confidence in the accuracy of the New Testament.  Like most of contemporary Catholic biblical scholarship, the infancy narratives are dismissed as mostly unhistorical.  All the \\"nature miracles\\" (walking on water, raising the dead, the transfiguration, the multiplication of the loaves, etc.) are also unhistorical \\"legends.\\"  Kasper then proceeds to discuss Jesus' healings and exorcisms, the authenticity of some he appears to accept, but his subsequent discussion of the theology of miracles makes you wonder if he believes Jesus performed miracles in the way commonly assumed.  Kasper believes that Jesus had some insight into the salvific meaning of his death, but how and why he isn't sure.  Was the tomb empty?  We can't be sure, but what really matters is the apostolic preaching of the risen Christ.      It's too bad that Kasper didn't interact with more conservative writers.  Most authors Kasper discusses are German, and of a fairly liberal perspective.  English writers that could have provided balance, such as F.F. Bruce, aren't mentioned.  The end result is a comprehensive, if one-sided discussion of Christology.	2005-02-21
US	52963744	R3HPI6490KWCMF	0800629817	321462387	Fortress Introduction to Contemporary Theologies	Books	4	9	10	N	N	A Funny Thing Happened On The Way To The Editor	On the back of Gary Dorrien's 1998 work THE REMAKING OF EVANGELICAL THEOLOGY, there is a supportive blurb from Stanley Grenz, who laments the fact that most works on \\"contemporary theology\\" ignore the contributions of evangelicals.  Funny thing: in Grenz's book entitled CONTEMPORARY THEOLOGIES (also published in 1998), Grenz and co-author Ed Miller ignore . . . . evangelical theologians.     <br /> <br />Maybe Grenz and Miller thought they were covering evangelicalism with a discussion of Barth, but the interpretive issues surrounding Barth make this problematic.  As far as acknowledged evangelicals go, there is a mention of Carl Henry in a footnote, a comparison between Tillich and Billy Graham (probably a first), and a couple of references to C.S. Lewis.  That's about it. <br /> <br />In spite of this apparent editorial oversight, this book is quite enjoyable.  Grenz and Miller take various schools of contemporary theology and pick one or two theologians as exemplars. Existentialism is discussed in terms of Bultmann, neo-orthodoxy by Barth, feminism with Rosemary Ruether, etc.  This is probably the best way to understand any given movement.   <br /> <br />A final problem with this book is that it doesn't contain a list of recommended readings.  As an example, Barth's output was massive and a student would benefit from some suggestions. <br />	2005-02-21
US	52963744	R3E5CV5G8XFY9T	0800614437	690585455	Jesus the Jew	Books	4	17	20	N	N	Jesus The Hasid	Geza Vermes (1924-  ) was raised Catholic, but of Jewish descent.  In 1957 he quit the Catholic priesthood and subsequently converted to Judaism.  He has been one of the more influential scholars in urging the study of Jewish cultural and religious milieu in order to understand Jesus. <br /> <br />JESUS THE JEW (1973) is the first of several books that Vermes has written on the historical Jesus.  Vermes' argument is that Jesus was a Hasid, a type of charismatic miracle worker common in first century Galilee.  Vermes frankly tells us that Jesus has been \\"distorted by Christian and Jewish myth alike.\\"  According to Vermes, Jesus claimed to be only a Jewish teacher, but after his death was proclaimed the Messiah by the early church and then - only as a result of the influence of Greek thought - the pre-existent Son of God.  Say what you want about Vermes' ideas, he presents an understanding of the trajectory of the \\"Jesus tradition\\" free from conspiracy theories, reliance on dubious Gnostic gospels and the like. <br /> <br />There are a couple of problems with this approach: <br /> <br />First, Vermes' claims that Jesus was a type of Galilean charismatic Jew rests on slim evidence.  His two examples are Honi the Circle Drawer (first century B.C.) and Hanina ben Dosa (first century A.D.).  While there are some similarities between Jesus and these two, Honi was not Galilean and Hanina's Galilean origin is far from certain.  And Vermes relies on very late traditions (some going to the eighth or ninth centuries A.D.).  (See Witherington, THE JESUS QUEST, pp. 108-112 for a critique of Vermes.)  He also claims that the Hasid used the term \\"Abba\\" as \\"father,\\" like Jesus.  Yet this claim has been effectively refuted.  (Stein, THE METHOD AND MESSAGE OF JESUS' TEACHINGS, p. 168.)  <br /> <br />Second, Vermes employs what appears to me at least an inconsistent methodology.  He looks to Mark's gospel to find evidence for a more primitive Jesus tradition consistent with his Hasid theory.  But he then ignores all sorts of Markan evidence that doesn't support it.  Even in Mark's gospel we see Jesus forgiving sins, preaching the Kingdom, and predicting his death.  His claim that Jesus forgiving sins was not remarkable is hard to accept in light of the reactions reported in the Gospels.  All this puts Jesus in a different category than Honi and Hanina ben Dosa.  In fact, this evidence is consistent with the widely held belief that Jesus acknowledged to his disciples that he was the Mesiah, but was reticent about disclosing it to the public given a likely misunderstanding. <br /> <br />I haven't read Vermes' other works (which are later & I gather take into account some of the criticisms I've mentioned) so I won't comment on his \\"project.\\"  At the same time, I found this work disappointing.  E.P. Sanders' work JESUS AND JUDAISM strikes me as a more thorough investigation of Jesus and his religious milieu. <br />	2005-02-20
US	52963744	RWB7AN6LHKK11	087784965X	258586985	New Testament Theology (Guthrie New Testament Reference Set)	Books	5	20	20	N	N	Excellent Companion to Guthrie's Introduction	Donald Guthrie's NEW TESTAMENT THEOLOGY is a solid presentation of NT theology from a very conservative perspective.  Most NT theologies have separate sections on each NT author.  Guthrie's book proceeds topically.  This approach is justified by the Guthrie's view that the \\"revelation cannot be contradictory.\\"  The results are quite conservative (Guthrie opposes women in ministry for example) and there is a considerable effort to harmonize the divergent strains of NT thought contra writers such as Dunn.    This book is amazingly comprehensive.  It is over 1000 pages and contains chapters on ethics (personal & social) and biblical inspiration.  The discussion of Jesus' view of the Old Testament is several pages alone.    Like Guthrie's NEW TESTAMENT INTRODUCTION, this is not one of the first books you want to read if you starting out to study the NT.  Leon Morris' book of the same name is a more manageable introduction of about a third the length.	2005-02-17
US	52963744	R3BVXFYA18FI1N	0830814027	629373758	New Testament Introduction (Master Reference Collection)	Books	5	21	22	N	N	Standard Conservative Introduction	NEW TESTAMENT INTRODUCTION by Donald Guthrie probably remains the standard conservative work of its genre.  If you want to find consistently conservative views on the authorship, dating, and textual integrity of the books of the New Testament (NT), then this is the place to go.  (Raymond Brown, who generally ignores conservative writers, describes this book as \\"very important\\".) <br /> <br />As an example of Guthrie's approach, take II Peter: Of all the books of the NT this is the one most likely to be pseudonymous.  Guthrie marshals a substantial amount of evidence indicating that Peter could have written it.  Much of this you won't find in other NT introductions, which often take for granted that it is a second century work. <br />  <br />It should be noted that this is an introduction to the books of the New Testament. Guthrie does not provide background studies on the history and culture of NT times, or synopsis of the events of the NT (life of Christ, journeys of Paul, etc.)  Because of the limited scope of this work (and its length) it is definitely not the first book to read if you are new to the NT. <br />	2005-02-08
US	52963744	R2DK5QLOLQZCXZ	0385469934	765116934	3: A Marginal Jew, Volume Three: Rethinking the Historical Jesus (Marginal Jew Rethinking the Historical Jesus)	Books	4	21	28	N	N	Somewhat Disappointing	I've commented on the first two volumes of John P. Meier's series A MARGINAL JEW.  This series is a centrist (or perhaps slightly left of center) work on the historical Jesus.  While Meier denies or suspects the historicity of parts of the New Testament (such as the infancy narratives) he also thinks that the Gospel presentation of Jesus (a miracle worker who preached a present and future Kingdom of God) is accurate to a large extent. <br /> <br />Volume three is something of a disappointment.  Meier discusses Jesus' followers (the crowds, disciples & apostles) and also Jesus' Jewish \\"competitors\\" (Pharisees, Sadducees, Scribes, Essenes & Herodians).  My concern centers on Meier's discussion of Jesus' competitors.  It is evident from a casual reading of the NT that Jesus often came into dispute with the Jews of his day.  As Meier notes, this is clear from an analysis of all the sources available.  While Meier's discussion of these groups is interesting and informative, the issue of why Jesus disputed with them is not as detailed as one might expect.  For example, the section entitled \\"Jesus and the Pharisees\\" is all of eight pages.  Yet there are a great many statements of Jesus which are quite hostile to the Jews of his day that cry out for discussion.  I realize that the at times shameful treatment of Jews by Western Christianity makes people reticent to discuss these issues, but I wonder if we are too accustomed to hearing about \\"Jesus the Jew\\" and \\"the Jewish roots of Christianity\\" to discusses these issues frankly.  Meier promises that the fourth and final volume will tackle Jesus' view of the law, and I imagine that here Jesus' dispute with his contemporaries will figure prominently. <br />	2005-01-28
US	52963744	R3TG01XWLFZODY	0385469926	449775023	A Marginal Jew: Rethinking the Historical Jesus, Vol. 2 - Mentor, Message, and Miracles	Books	4	15	16	N	N	Three Books In One	Every once in a while, public attention turns to the person of Jesus of Nazareth.  A few years ago, it was the \\"Jesus Seminar.\\"  Lately, Dan Brown's book THE DA VINCI CODE sparked some interest, particularly among the conspiracy minded.  The impression that many people have is that the conventional story about Jesus is wrong, and the more established churches don't want you to know it.      What many people haven't been told is that there is a large body of work in recent years which is supportive of the historical accuracy of the Gospels.  One such work is John Meier's series A MARGINAL JEW.  Meier is a Catholic priest who teaches at Notre Dame.   In 1991 he came out with the first volume.  It might not be the first book you want to read on the subject, but it's a work that anyone interested in the historical Jesus should tackle.  Volume two and three are out, and a fourth and final volume is promised.    There are a few things to keep in mind when reading this series.  First, Meier is writing a book on the historical Jesus.  There is minimal theological reflection.  Second, it is not an old-fashioned \\"life of Jesus\\" which presents a chronological discussion of Jesus' life (Meier probably doesn't have enough confidence in the historicity of the Gospels to write such a work).  He arranges his material topically.    Volume 2 is a 1118 page monster which discusses three subjects: (1) John the Baptist; (2) Jesus' teaching on the Kingdom of God; and (3) Jesus' miracles.  This book is well organized and Meier has an introduction which tells you where he is going.  For example, he tells you flat out that he disagrees with Crossan and Smith's claim that Jesus was a magician.  There are tons of footnotes, which are unfortunately placed at the end of each chapter.  The footnotes/endnotes are informative and contain lots of interesting barbs directed at other scholars.    Meier's discussion of miracles is illustrative of his approach.  Meier concludes that there is no reasonto doubt that Jesus was perceived to be a miracle worker. In addition, through an exhaustive look at other miracle workers and magicians in antiquity, he shows that Jesus was not a magician in any traditional sense.  At the same time, when and if any particular miracle occurred as written is an open question.  Thus, he thinks it unlikely that the miracle in Mk. 3:1-6 (the man with the withered hand) occurred at all.  Yet the curing of Bartimeaus (Mk. 10:46-52) is probably historical at its \\"core.\\"  Even here, he thinks Mark \\"worked up\\" the oral tradition.  If your view of biblical inspiration swings toward the Chicago Statement on Biblical Inerrancy, you might be disappointed.     Ben Witherington provides a review of Meier's project up to the second volume in THE JESUS QUEST.  Witherington reaches more conservative conclusions while using a similar methodology.	2005-01-23
US	52963744	R37EK3ARMBFQG	0385264259	449775023	A Marginal Jew: Rethinking the Historical Jesus: The Roots of the Problem and the Person, Vol. 1	Books	4	56	57	N	N	Comprehensive	Every once in a while, public attention turns to the person of Jesus of Nazareth.  A few years ago, it was the \\"Jesus Seminar.\\"  Lately, Dan Brown's book THE DA VINCI CODE sparked some interest, particularly among the conspiracy minded.  The impression that many people have is that the conventional story about Jesus is wrong, and the more established churches don't want you to know it.      What many people haven't been told is that there is a large body of work in recent years which is supportive of the historical accuracy of the Gospels.  One such work is John Meier's series A MARGINAL JEW.  Meier is a Catholic priest who teaches at Notre Dame.   In 1991 he came out with the first volume.  It might not be the first book you want to read on the subject, but it's a work that anyone interested in the historical Jesus should tackle.  Volume two and three are out, and a fourth and final volume is promised.    Meier's work is nothing if not comprehensive.  Volume 1 describes the sources for the life of Jesus, the historicity of those sources, the chronology of Jesus' life, and his background (his family, what languages he spoke, whether he could read, and the like).  Meier is particularly good on some of the supposed sources for Jesus' life, such as the Gospel of Thomas and the Gospel of Peter.  As he shows, careful analysis of these documents indicates that they are later than and rely upon the canonical Gospels.  Contra people like Crossan, it is highly unlikely that they contain a separate Jesus tradition.    This book is also interesting for a couple of other reasons.  First, although the book contains the imprimatur of the Roman Catholic Church (indicating it is free from doctrinal error), Meier actually denies the perpetual virginity of Mary and is noncommittal on the virgin birth (both of which are Catholic dogma, or so I thought).  Second, Meier disputes the historicity of portions of the Gospels, particularly the infancy narratives.  For example, he thinks it unlikely that Jesus was born in Bethlehem.     Ben Witherington provides a review of Meier's project up to the second volume in THE JESUS QUEST.  Witherington reaches more conservative conclusions while using a similar methodology.	2005-01-23
US	52963744	R3UVTB74HR24G3	0226264211	218317724	Capitalism and Freedom: Fortieth Anniversary Edition	Books	5	11	15	N	N	Friedman on Freedom	Milton Friedman has been one of the most effective advocates of free enterprise in the U.S. for many years.  Although often called a \\"conservative,\\" he is perhaps best described as a moderate libertarian; that is, he supports more intervention into the economy than the typical libertarian.  In addition, his school of theoretical economics (monetarism) differs sharply from the Austrianism embraced by many in the libertarian movement.  He has also advocated schemes that tacitly accept a substantial role for government in society, such as the voucher system, the \\"negative\\" income tax, and the flat tax.    CAPITALISM AND FREEDOM discusses many of the basic issues of the role of government in the economy, such as monetary policy, monopolies, licensing and the like.  The work came out in 1962 and I particularly enjoyed the discussion of education.  Friedman noted even then that teachers' salaries had been rising, but inflexible (i.e, union negotiated) contracts prevented schools from rewarding good teachers.  This system, which is almost inevitable with government schooling, virtually insures that schools will stay mediocre.  It shouldn't be surprising, then, that the marginal changes in the past few years (magnet schools and some incentives for good teachers) have done little to increase the quality of education.  (For more on this, see Brimelow's book on teachers unions, THE WORM IN THE APPLE.)    Other introductory works on the role of government in a free society from a similar perspective are LIBERALISM by L. von Mises and FOR A NEW LIBERTY by M. Rothbard.	2005-01-22
US	52963744	R145JVE6CSW907	0809104695	753086257	An Introduction to New Testament Christology	Books	4	28	35	N	N	A Centrist Approach to New Testament Christology	Raymond Brown (1928-1998) was probably the best-known Catholic biblical scholar in the U.S.  He was controversial because his views on the Bible were center to left, yet nonetheless his books earned the imprimatur of the Catholic Church and he even was appointed a member of the Pontifical Biblical Commission.  While Fr. Brown appeared to support most of the Church's teaching, it's hard to imagine that his \\"critical\\" approach ever did much to increase the faith of Catholics.    AN INTRODUCTION TO NEW TESTAMENT CHRISTOLOGY (1994) is an excellent introduction to Christology from the \\"centrist\\" perspective.  Brown hits on many of the standard topics in Christology such as the \\"titles\\" of Jesus, the resurrection, the messianic expectations of the Jews, and the like.  (It is an introduction and therefore does not cover topics that are found in longer works.)    What is most frustrating is that while Brown discusses other views, he generally limits the options to the center/left perspective.  For example, the synoptic gospels report that on at least three occasions Jesus predicted his death (Mk. 8:31; 9:31; 10:33-34 & par).  What does Fr. Brown say about these?  Well, \\"it is difficult to decide about Jesus' foreknowledge of his passion, crucifixion, and resurrection.\\"  [P. 49.]  Now, if these predictions were simply \\"retrojected\\" by the early church, it is at least interesting to note that: (1) Jesus refers to himself as the \\"Son of man\\" in these passages - an expression which does not appear in the early church; and (2) there is no mention of the crucifixion or the atonement in Mark, which one might expect if they were later theological reflections put in the mouth of Jesus.  Considering that Mark was probably the first gospel written, such arguments should carry some weight.  They might not persuade non-believers, but if Brown is going to mention the findings of skeptics such as Todt and Higgins, at least he could find space for a paragraph or two to discuss the arguments I just mentioned (which, of course, aren't original to me.)	2005-01-18
US	52963744	RAAFPTFMKC065	0809124068	139212752	The Critical Meaning of the Bible	Books	4	25	32	N	N	A Contemporary Catholic View of the Bible	Raymond Brown (1928-1998) was probably the best-known Catholic biblical scholar in the U.S.  He was controversial because his views on the Bible were center to left, yet nonetheless his books earned the imprimatur of the Catholic Church and he even was appointed a member of the Pontifical Biblical Commission.  While Fr. Brown appeared to support most of the Church's teaching, it's hard to imagine that his \\"critical\\" approach ever did much to increase the faith of Catholics. <br /> <br />THE CRITICAL MEANING OF THE BIBLE (1981) is a collection of essays and addresses Brown gave from 1976-1981.  They discuss various questions concerning the inspiration of scripture, the history of Catholic biblical interpretation, the authorship of the NT documents, the priesthood and ecumenical relations. <br /> <br />Brown was a clear writer and, like many of his works, this book may be read by novices and more advanced readers.  What is perhaps most annoying is Brown's constant attempt to place himself in the center and \\"disrespect\\" anyone who was to the right.  Like many \\"centrists,\\" Brown always seemed to get more worked up over conservatives (whom he often called \\"ultraconservative\\") than liberals.  Someone like Bultmann (whom Brown casually describes as \\"left-of-center\\") is never held up to the ridicule of conservatives who \\"naively\\" believe in the historicity of the NT accounts of Jesus' life and publish their articles in \\"propogandistic\\" journals.	2005-01-15
US	52963744	R9UH6AYMTF34H	0830827854	474085315	A Contemporary Anabaptist Theology: Biblical, Historical, Constructive	Books	4	24	25	N	N	Fascinating	If, like me, your knowledge of the Anabaptist movement is limited to knowing that some of them went crazy trying to \\"imminentize the eschaton\\" in Munster in 1534-35, you will find this work by Thomas Finger fascinating.<br /><br />The Anabaptist movement began in 1525 and is generally considered the \\"radical wing\\" of the Reformation.  Anabaptists rejected infant baptism and taught that their members should be rebaptized.  They were called \\"Anabaptists\\" by their opponents (\\"ana\\" being Greek for \\"again\\").  The best-known Anabaptist \\"denomination\\" is the Mennonites.  Other groups, such as the Brethren, have roots in the Anabaptist movement.  Some were more or less conventional Protestants (with the exception of baptism and pacifism), whereas others drifted into rationalism or even tritheism.  Anabaptism also has roots in late-Medieval spirituality.  (Incidentally, the connection between today's Baptists and the Anabaptists is somewhat tenuous.)<br /><br />Finger's work hits on the major areas of the theology and then discusses the positions that various Anabaptist thinkers and schools have taken. My only complaint is that it would have been more helpful had Finger interacted more with conservative thinkers.  He generally contrasts Anabaptist theology with that of liberals or neo-liberals such as Barth, R. Niebuhr, Elizabeth Johnson and Walter Wink.	2005-01-09
US	52963744	R3PARBIO2KJXE3	0664246982	685891338	The Evidence for Jesus	Books	4	9	10	N	N	Good Introduction	James D.G. Dunn is a \\"centrist\\" New Testament scholar who has written a large number of books, many focusing on the Apostle Paul.  Dunn is one of the leaders of the \\"new perspective on Paul\\" movement, which argues that the Reformers misunderstood or overemphasized Paul's teaching on justification by faith (or at least that's what their critics assert they are saying).    This relatively small book discusses four questions: (1) the historicity of the Gospels; (2) did Jesus claim to be the Son of God?; (3) what the first Christians believed about the resurrection; and (4) unity and diversity in earliest Christianity.  It assumes little or no knowledge of the Gospels and could be studied profitably by beginners and those who are exposed to fanciful stories of Jesus' life (e.g., Jesus married Mary Magdalene and moved to India).  The discussion of the resurrection is particularly good, and Dunn shows that there are few parallels to belief in Jesus' resurrection in the pagan or Jewish world of the time.     Not everyone will agree with Prof. Dunn's conclusions.  For example, he argues that John's Gospel is something of a theological commentary on Jesus' life and that the dispute with \\"the Jews\\" reflects the later separation between church and synagogue.  Another book, which complements this one and reaches perhaps more conservative conclusions, is F.F. Bruce's THE NEW TESTAMENT DOCUMENTS: ARE THEY RELIABLE?	2004-12-31
US	52963744	R1LM5VOLOY49DY	0962533661	388876610	The Foreign Policy of Self-Interest: A Moral Ideal for America	Books	3	14	38	N	N	America First	Peter Schwartz is associated with the Ayn Rand Institute (ARI), an organization which advocates the \\"Official Objectivism\\" of Leonard Peikoff (which one wag recently called the \\"religious wing\\" of Objectivism).  Mr. Schwartz may be best known in Libertarian circles for his off the mark critique of Libertarianism published some years ago.     This brief book (actually a pamphlet of 60 pages if you omit the notes and other stuff) advocates a foreign policy of self-interest and applies it to today's events, most notably the war against terror.  Although I'm not a big fan of Mr. Schwartz's work, this pamphlet is moderately interesting (if for no other reason that Rand is mentioned only a couple of times.)    There is much here that a paleoconservative or paleolibertarian can agree with.  American foreign policy should be based on U.S. self-interest and many of the \\"do-gooder\\" interventions of the U.S. (such as Haiti and Serbia) can't be justified on this standard.  In addition, Mr. Schwartz argues that the U.S. should not be the world's policeman.  He also reminds us that, contrary to certain neocons, not everyone believes in freedom or finds democracy \\"liberating.\\"  At the same time, Mr. Schwartz not only supports the U.S. intervention in Iraq, but also an ambitious \\"indoctrination\\" campaign.  According to Mr. Schwartz, we must force Iraqi schools to teach the ideas of \\"Adam Smith and John Locke and Thomas Jefferson.\\"  That such an attempt to brainwash Moslems into accepting Western ideas might lead to resentment in the Muslim world doesn't seem to concern Mr. Schwartz.  Maybe we can hold these reeducation sessions in mosques so they hate us even more.  (Incidentally, these three authors were all theists and therefore \\"mystics.\\"  Shouldn't Ayn Rand be taught to the Iraqis?)  In this respect, I was disappointed that Mr. Schwartz didn't discuss the argument, which has become the \\"party line\\" in Official Objectivist circles, that the U.S. should target civilians to breakthe will of the populace.    Like much Objectivist analysis, Schwartz's approach it is quite rationalistic for a supposedly hardheaded empirical philosophy.  The U.S. and Israel are always good, whereas their opponents are bad.  While many paleos are unfairly anti-American, Mr. Schwartz veers in the opposite direction.   The U.S. apparently never gives anyone reason to dislike it.  In addition, our adversaries are always guided by ideological motives.  Islam is evil because it is tribal and mystical (except when it provides Mr. Schwartz with an opportunity to attack Christianity - Objectivism's real enemy - by arguing that Islam isn't so bad in comparison.)  If Moslems don't like us, it has nothing to do with some might perceive as excessive U.S. meddling in the Middle East but rather their ideology.  If the U.S. blunders in foreign policy, the reason must be \\"altruism,\\" not a failure to understand the situation.    Mr. Schwartz's book is of moderate interest and, in any event, it's nice to see someone associated with the ARI write something that doesn't parrot what that Rand said.	2004-12-24
US	52963744	R2QA4XCXC2K62W	0895260476	989380415	The Politically Incorrect Guide to American History	Books	5	836	1133	N	N	Unlearn Your History	Thomas Woods, Jr. (who holds a doctorate in history from Columbia University) presents a quick survey of American history from the \\"politically incorrect\\" (paleoconservative/paleolibertarian) perspective.  Although not a substitute for a comprehensive U.S. history, it effectively refutes many of the more common claims by leftists, such as the Puritans were racists and the U.S. Constitution was meant to prohibit states and localities from enacting laws concerning religion.  He points out that Joe McCarthy (for all his flaws) was correct that large numbers of government employees were commies.  As he notes, the same libs who have a cow about Joe McCarthy can't get worked up over the New York Times columnist Walter Duranty covering up the crimes of Joe Stalin.  He even rescues Operation Keelhaul (in which the U.S. sent Russians back to Stalin to be murdered or worked to death) from obscurity.<br /><br />THE POLITICALLY INCORRECT GUIDE has a common theme: most of the misrepresentations of our history have the result of increasing in the power of the federal government to the expense of the states.  Why is it that most our \\"great\\" presidents got us into war, increased the power of their office, and expanded the scope of the federal government?  Not too long ago, conservatives actually had unkind things to say about FDR and his machinations that lead us into war.  Prof. Woods puts it all in perspective.<br /><br />The only weakness of this work is that while it is reasonably lengthy (250 pages), it isn't nearly long enough to refute all of the more common leftist mischaracterization of American history.  Dr. Woods didn't have the space to refute such \\"urban legends\\" as the Iroquois Confederation inspired the U.S. Constitution, a quarter of the cowboys were black, the West was lawless, and Chief Seattle wrote the words to \\"Peace Train\\" (ok, I made the last one up).	2004-11-29
US	52963744	R1OTDFLVYUSW1U	1561142506	877203782	Ayn Rand's Marginalia: Her Critical Comments on the Writings of over 20 Authors	Books	1	14	22	N	N	A Mind Out Of Focus	Ayn Rand was a thinker whose ideas ranged from the insightful to the ill informed.  Occasionally she says something interesting and you think she had a unique ability to get to the heart of the matter.  Other times, you shake your head and ask yourself how could someone be so misguided.  I don't have a good explanation for why this is the case, but if you want to see Rand's mind *not* at work, her \\"marginalia\\" (comments she wrote in books she read) is the place to start. <br /> <br />Part of Rand's problem is that she is intent on misreading and misinterpreting what others write.  She thinks she knows that an author means better than he does.  At times, her misunderstandings border on the bizarre.  For example, she comments on von Mises's work HUMAN ACTION.  For page after page, Rand misconstrues what Mises said.  (At one point she even \\"corrects\\" his definition of money.  I'd like to see *her* 500 page treatise on monetary theory.)  In one section, Mises discusses the Austrian concept of \\"the sovereignty of the consumer.\\"  This idea means that in a free market economy, businesses must produce and sell what consumers want if they are to stay in business.  If consumers want dishwashers and porno mags instead of Beethoven CDs, then that's what will be produced.  If you think about it, this is a powerful argument against socialism and government planning.  The economy is already \\"planned\\" by consumers who vote with their dollars.  Do government bureaucrats know better what consumers want?  Yet Rand will have none of this.  She goes into a tizzy about the term \\"sovereignty.\\"  It has  \\"altruist-parasite implication[s].\\"  It turns people into \\"slaves\\" of the \\"whims\\" of the consumer. <br /> <br />Even worse is Rand's misunderstanding of C.S. Lewis's work THE ABOLITION OF MAN.  Lewis makes the point that planners use the power they have gained from science to dominate man.  He concludes that any power won by man is also a power over man.  Rand goes bonkers and comments \\"Sowhen you cure men of . . .  [diseases] - you make them weaker!!!\\"   Uh, that wasn't exactly his point.  She even accuses Lewis (an Anglican) of wanting science subservient to the Pope! <br /> <br />The most of obvious question is why would Ayn Rand's estate publish stuff which makes her look like something of a, well, loon?  As the editor Robert Mayhew (a professor philosophy at Seton Hall) admits, Rand never imagined that her jottings would be published.  Incredibly, Prof. Mayhew, while conceding the harshness of some of Rand's comments, says there isn't one case where what Rand said was \\"unfair.\\"  He even holds Rand's comment about C.S. Lewis that I quoted above as an example of her \\"matchless mind in action.\\" <br /> <br />	2004-11-21
US	52963744	R1QJN3413SGPN4	087579078X	986461907	The World and the Prophets (The Collected Works of Hugh Nibley, Vol 3)	Books	4	11	14	N	N	Nibley on Prophecy	Hugh Nibley is widely considered one of the top scholars that the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints (the Mormons) has produced. During his long career, he has written extensively on ancient history, Scripture, the Book of Mormon, comparative religion and other subjects. Prof. Nibley has been praised by non-Mormon as well as Mormon scholars, including some Evangelical Protestants, who consider him Mormonism's best apologist. (Incidentally, there are some scholars within the LDS Church that question certain aspects of his methodology and his use of sources.)  <br /> <br />For those who don't know, Mormons believe that the Christian church fell into apostasy early on and the Church was restored with the prophetic work of Joseph Smith, Jr. (1805-1844).  Although the Reformers challenged some of Rome's teachings, they accepted the idea that revelation was mostly over and placed it in an inspired book rather than an inspired church.  The Mormons believe in continuing revelation and Nibley even speaks highly of the Charismatic movement.  To a certain extent, then, Mormonism is a form of \\"restorationism\\" which was popular during the time of Joseph Smith.  <br /> <br />THE WORLD AND THE PROPHETS is a collection of talks that Dr. Nibley gave on radio 50 years ago.  Nibley concisely sets forth the Mormon idea of revelation (particularly the importance of prophecy) and contrasts it was historic Christianity, which tends to limit revelation to an inspired Church and an inspired book.  According to Nibley, Christianity (if you can all it that) went off the wrong track early on with its emphasis on \\"mysticism, speculation, and  rhetoric.\\"  Nibley argues that, on the other hand, Mormonism is a more \\"literal\\" and less \\"speculative\\" religion. <br />  <br />THE WORLD AND THE PROPHETS' biggest limitation is that inherent in brief lectures.  There is a tendency to draw excessively sharp contrasts between Mormonism and more traditional forms of Christianity.  For example, Nibley alleges that the rest of the Christian world is given to Greek speculation (such as the classical formulation of the doctrine of the Trinity and the Deity of Christ) yet the same thing could be said with respect to Mormons (in their doctrine of deification and the like).  In addition, Nibley has the tendency to make historic Christians out to be something of frauds.  In a couple places, he even implies that Church Fathers like Augustine were such blatant phonies that they even had to admit it.  I checked out a few of Nibley's references and there are, to put it mildly, more charitable interpretations one could give them.  <br /> <br />Even if one is not a Mormon, one can appreciate this book for the insight that it sheds on the Mormon view of historic Christianity.  For a different perspective (which doesn't mention Mormonism or Nibley, however) one might consult Jean Danielou's work GOD AND THE WAYS OF KNOWING. <br />	2004-11-20
US	52963744	ROJNRQWZ5WMXB	1882926218	792146014	Redeeming the Time	Books	4	18	20	N	N	Kirk Speaks From The Grave	Russell Kirk gave many lectures at the Heritage Foundation in the years before his death.  These lectures have been collected in THE POLITICS OF PRUDENCE and REDEEMING THE TIME.     <br /> <br />Kirk was the leading exponent of intellectual conservatism in the United States.  By \\"conservatism\\" I don't mean that mix of Evangelical religion, free enterprise, and US boosterism that goes by that name.  Kirk was steeped in European conservative thought and some of his views would fall outside much of the conservative mainstream today.  Yes he was religious, a believer in free enterprise, and also an advocate of the Cold War.  On the other hand, he critiqued the individualism of the libertarians, supported some government intervention in the economy, and opposed the first Gulf War.  Had he been alive, he probably would have opposed the current war against Iraq (certainly if framed as part of a global crusade to spread democracy).  So there is plenty here for anyone to agree or disagree with. <br /> <br />The lectures gathered in this work cover a broad range of topics, from education to politics to foreign policy.  There is a particularly interesting discussion of the death penalty and also a wide-ranging critique of egalitarianism.  I liked some of the \\"personal touches\\" that Kirk weaved into these articles, such as Kirk's opposition to television and the computer.  In fact, Kirk didn't even drive an automobile.  As Wes McDonald argues in his book on Kirk, he is hard to follow as a guide in all things, but is always a stimulating thinker. <br />	2004-11-18
US	52963744	R3QZSNBQXX3J3C	0806525371	719308883	The Conservative Bookshelf: Essential Works That Impact Today's Conservative Thinkers	Books	4	37	40	N	N	Be A Thinking Conservative	Long-time conservative book reviewer Chilton Williamson discusses 50 books \\"that impact today's conservative thinkers.\\"  The books date from the Bible to Thomas Fleming's 2004 THE MORALITY OF EVERYDAY LIFE.  He provides an overview of each work, discusses its author and, when appropriate, relates it to contemporary issues (such as the neocon/paleocon dispute).  The books are divided into religion, politics, society, literature, economics, and present day disputes.  I should note that the \\"texts\\" under consideration are serious works and not a collection of anti-Clinton screeds written by second-tier neoconservatives.  If you've always wanted to know what works elaborate on the essentials of conservative thought, Mr. Williamson is a sure guide.  If you don't want to know why Burke was a Rockingham Whig instead of a Tory, then look someplace else. <br /> <br />Ten of the 50 books are works of fiction.  I don't have a problem with that, but as a result there are some important thinkers who are not mentioned that most would consider \\"essential\\" to contemporary conservatism (such as Eric Voegelin and Christopher Dawson).  I also would have liked to see a little more interaction with libertarianism.  Von Mises and Rothbard are mentioned only once.  While Von Mises was not a conservative in the contemporary sense of the word, every conservative should read HUMAN ACTION.  In addition, the section on religion is quite slim, and it would have been a good place to mention Dawson. <br />	2004-11-11
US	52963744	R5G16KX778AHV	0534576257	617506838	On Ayn Rand (Wadsworth Philosophers Series)	Books	2	7	19	N	N	Mediocre Introduction to Rand	Allan Gotthelf is a philosopher and a follower of the ideas of philosopher/novelist Ayn Rand.   He is associated with the Ayn Rand Institute, which advocates the \\"Official Objectivism\\" of Leonard Peikoff.    Generally speaking, ON AYN RAND is reliable introduction to Rand's thought. On the other hand, it's of the strangest books I've read in terms of its \\"construction.\\"  The endnotes take up an unusually large percentage of the book.  For example, chapter 4 is 5 pages long and the endnotes almost 3 full pages.  In addition, much valuable information that is contained in the endnotes belongs in the text.  The discussion of her first novel, WE THE LIVING, takes up one paragraph in the text, but there are three paragraph length endnotes that tell you much more about the novel.  This is highly unusual for any book, particularly an introduction.  It's almost as if the book was put together from two separate sources.  And, although the book is 97 pages long, the section on Rand's politics is one page long!  Simply put, this is not a book that will grab the attention of those new to Rand or those who know her mostly through her novels and politics.    What is most troubling about the book is its partisan tone, which at times approaches agitprop.  There is not a single word of criticism of Rand, and Gotthelf's praise is overboard.  We read about the \\"poignant and beautiful lines\\" of one of her books, how her theories are \\"remarkable\\" and \\"original,\\" and how her theory of concept formation would change the world if only we would let it into our heart.  There is also a deliberate attempt to downplay the influence of Nietzsche (or any other thinker) on her thought.  But what I found most irritating is that 100% of the time she is referred to as \\"Ayn Rand.\\"  A huge flaw is the failure to mention any books on Ayn Rand not written by Official Objectivists.  Indeed, when he mentions in a footnote that Barbara Branden wrote a memoir/biography of Rand, he doesn't even name the book(although he insists that it's riddled with errors).  He claims that there is no evidence that Rand's philosophy professors in Russia influenced her - an obvious reference to Chris Sciabarra's book AYN RAND: THE RUSSIAN RADICAL - but he doesn't mention Sciabarra or the book's title.  The bibliography mentions only books by Rand, with the exception of Peikoff's OBJECTIVISM: THE PHILOSOPHY OF AYN RAND.    Although Rand has been the subject of considerable interest of late, there is still no completely satisfactory introduction to her thought.  The best introduction remains Tibor Machan's AYN RAND.	2004-11-07
US	52963744	R12L21UW4BMHQZ	0765802414	365980556	The Woman and the Dynamo: Isabel Paterson and the Idea of America	Books	5	26	29	N	N	Isabel Paterson's America	Those who known the name Isabel Paterson probably know her from her outstanding 1943 work THE GOD OF THE MACHINE.  That work, as Prof. Stephen Cox noted in his 1993 introduction, is \\"one of the few original theories of history that have been developed in America.\\" <br /> <br />Paterson was also a successful novelist and one of the most important columnists and book reviewers of her time.  Her life also intersected with many of the most important thinkers in the libertarian and conservative individualist tradition, including Ayn Rand, Russell Kirk, Whittaker Chambers, William Buckley, and H. L. Mencken.  Certainly Paterson deserves a full-scale biography and Prof. Cox has filled this gap with this admirable work. <br /> <br />Paterson is also well known for her influence on Ayn Rand.  Prof. Cox sheds new light on their relationship.  Paterson was a compulsive reader, particularly in history and politics.  Rand, on the other hand, appears to have read little in this area.  Rand would talk to Paterson for hours at a time, and many of Rand's ideas flowed from what she learned from her. They were both strong-willed and difficult people and their relationship began to show strains when Rand accused Paterson of using some of her own ideas without credit.  (Rand had an exaggerated sense of her own originality.)  In 1948, Paterson said something offensive to Rand and their relationship came to an end.  To Rand's credit, she continued to recommend THE GOD OF THE MACHINE.   <br /> <br />This book is something of a \\"life and times\\" biography of Paterson.  There is much of interest concerning the politics of the time, the New York publishing scene, the nascent libertarian movement and the like.  Unfortunately, only THE GOD OF THE MACHINE remains in print and it doesn't appear that an anthology of Paterson's non-fiction writing was ever produced.  Hopefully Prof. Cox or someone else will remedy this situation. <br />	2004-10-30
US	52963744	R31B1TC9UKEAH6	0415295904	187282436	Reason and Analysis (Muirhead Library of Philosophy) (Volume 82)	Books	5	9	9	N	N	A Voice of Reason	Gordon H. Clark once wrote that Brand Blanshard was the most important American philosopher of twentieth century.  Why would Clark (a staunch Calvinist) say this about Blanshard (a signer of the Secular Humanist Manifesto)?  Well, read this book. <br /> <br />Blanshard was a rationalist who disagreed with the dominant empiricist trend in philosophy.  Like just about everyone prior to Hume, Blanshard had a full-orbed conception of reason.  Philosophy is not limited to describing \\"linguistic conventions,\\" but actually tell us something about the nature of the world. <br /> <br />REASON AND ANALYSIS starts with a discussion of traditional conception of reason (and its recent enemies) and then begins a full-scale assault on analytic philosophy.  There is a particularly excellent discussion of a priori reasoning, which demolishes logical positivism and also demonstrates that logic is neither a linguistic convention nor the arbitrary creation of the mind.   <br /> <br />My only complaint with this book is its length: 500 pages.  Considering that much of what Blanshard destroyed has gone the way of a 1970's sitcom, this might seem excessive.  On the other hand, if you are interested in learning about the differences between the early Moore and the later Moore, the early Russell and the later Russell, logical atomism and logical positivism and the like, you get something of an encyclopedic approach to the issue.  It's tempting to ignore all the differences in nuance in various schools and thinkers, but the attention to detail only magnifies our appreciation of this work. <br />	2004-10-20
US	52963744	R1HGJFJAPO2K8C	0830814175	236401609	The Last Things: Resurrection, Judgment, Glory (Christian Foundations, 7)	Books	4	10	11	N	N	Theology and Hope	THE LAST THINGS is the seventh and final volume of Donald Bloesch's CHRISTIAN FOUNDATIONS series.  As I've said before, this is a unique systematic theology.  Most systematic theologies provide extensive discussions of biblical concepts and the history of theology.  CHRISTIAN FOUNDATIONS is different in that, while the Bible is discussed, much of the work consists of the interaction by Prof. Bloesch with other thinkers and schools of thought.  Prof. Bloesch is something of an evangelical centrist of a Reformed persuasion, so you can see how a centrist interacts with more liberal and more conservative thinkers.   <br /> <br />THE LAST THINGS concerns what is often called general eschatology (\\"bible prophecy\\") and individual eschatology (what happens to people after they die).  Prof. Bloesch is always interesting and irenic.  For example, he takes the position that there is the opportunity for conversion after death, based on the passages in the Bible which describe Jesus preaching to the dead (such as I Peter 3 & Eph. 4).  Of course, these verses are difficult to interpret (some take them to mean merely that Jesus preached to those who had since died or were \\"spiritually dead\\") and a one-volume work such as Donald Guthrie's NEW TESTAMENT THEOLOGY has a more in-depth discussion of these passages. <br /> <br />In spite of its limitations, Prof. Bloesch's CHRISTIAN FOUNDATIONS makes for rewarding reading, but is not a substitute for more \\"foundational\\" studies of Christian theology.	2004-10-11
US	52963744	R1YBO5VUA5T3GS	0899848761	503816898	Problems of Philosophy	Books	5	7	9	N	N	A Classic	Bertrand Russell (1872-1970) was of course one of the most influential philosophers of the twentieth century.  THE PROBLEMS OF PHILOSOPHY (1912) is a classic introduction to the perennial questions of philosophy (although it focuses mainly on epistemology and metaphysics).  It is an engaging book that can be read by both the beginner in philosophy as well as the more advanced student.  (For example, Russell described much of what is considered the \\"Gettier problem\\" in this book.)     Russell had an amazingly long and productive life.  He was a key figure in the school known as analytic philosophy (which has one of its earliest appearances in book form here) and was the founder of logical atomism (which can be dated from his 1914 work OUR KNOWLEDGE OF THE EXTERNAL WORLD).  His last major work of technical philosophy (HUMAN KNOWLEDGE) appeared in 1948 and after that time was largely known for his social and political activism.      In reading Russell, there are a couple things to remember.  First, Russell wasn't always the most accurate expositor on the history of philosophy and religion (you can skip his HISTORY OF WESTERN PHILOSOPHY if you are interested in learning about the subject matter of the book).  Second, just because he is often considered an empiricist, it is a mistake to consider him a consistent empiricist, much less a logical positivist.  Russell's logical atomism had a metaphysics, albeit a rather pared down one.  During large parts of his career, Russell was keenly aware that strict empiricism was a dead end.  Indeed, in THE PROBLEMS OF PHILOSOPHY he sets forth a famous defense of universals that put him in the realist, as opposed to nominalist camp (where most empiricists are).  There is also a good defense of a priori insight, which shows Russell's rationalist roots.	2004-09-29
US	52963744	R1I416VVSL5S0T	0801428629	45260670	The Reliability of Sense Perception	Books	4	3	5	N	N	Good Book About A Fundamental Question	One of the central questions in philosophy is the reliability of sense perception.  That is, how do we know that our senses are (generally speaking) reliable and what method (if any) is there to determine whether they are reliable on any specific occasion? <br /> <br />Although we assume that our senses give us accurate information about a world \\"out there\\" providing good arguments for this belief isn't so simple.  Take the philosopher Ayn Rand: she never actually explained what method we use to determine whether the senses are, on any given occasion, accurate  (although this hasn't prevented her followers from asserting that she - and she alone - has \\"solved\\" the problem). <br /> <br />Throughout the history of philosophy, numerous answers have been given.  Prof. William Alston discusses these answers in this compact and readable book.  (Actually, his discussion is somewhat broader: by the reliability of sense perception, Prof. Alston means a \\"doxastic practice\\" of belief formation which goes from sense perception to beliefs about the physical and social environment.)  As he notes, many of the arguments in favor of the reliability of sense perception can be broken down into \\"a priori\\" and empirical arguments.  Some of the a priori arguments provide a satisfactory refutation of skepticism, but don't provide any reason to think that the senses are more generally accurate than not.  (Although he doesn't mention Rand's argument that skepticism is self-refuting because \\"existence exists,\\" similar arguments are discussed.)  Many of the empirical arguments appear to provide reasons for believing that the sense perception is reliable (because they provide a good track record in making predictions and the like) yet they assume what needs to be proved: that the senses are in fact reliable. <br /> <br />Prof. Alston closes the book with his own argument in favor of the reliability of sense perception (which I confess I didn't understand very well) and an evaluation of the arguments offered. <br /> <br />This is the first book I've read by Prof. Alston.  I think I'll be reading his A REALIST CONCEPTION OF TRUTH next.	2004-09-21
US	52963744	R17T2QM2APIYIT	0801021820	954581406	Christian Theology	Books	4	39	43	N	N	Balanced and Comprehensive	Millard Erickson is one of the most prolific evangelical theologians writing today.  His CHRISTIAN THEOLOGY is (from what I've read) the most widely used systematic theology in Baptist seminaries.   The doctrinal perspective of this work is premillenial, baptistic and moderately Calvinistic.     <br /> <br />One of the advantages of this book is that Prof. Erickson doesn't bombard the reader with a list of theologians who have opined on various topics.  He takes a topic, discusses three or four key thinkers and options, analyzes them, and gives his own opinion. <br /> <br />Prof. Erickson discusses most of the major topics of theology, including important background areas such as biblical criticism, the relationship between theology and philosophy, and contemporizing the Christian message.  One area that Prof. Erickson skates over is that of women in the ministry.  Last I checked, Prof. Erickson is a member of a pro-women's ordination group called Christians for Biblical Equality, but you wouldn't know it from reading this book.  The discussion of women implies that he supports it, but he isn't as clear as one would expect.  (See p. 565-66.) <br /> <br />For even more conservative protestant works in systematic theology, readers should consider the works of Robert Reymond and Wayne Grudem.   <br />	2004-09-19
US	52963744	R1B15AT4XVMDL1	0971373701	15633822	Loving Life: The Morality of Self-Interest and the Facts that Support It	Books	3	15	27	N	N	Ayn Rand Made Easy	Most people who are interested in Ayn Rand were probably introduced to her via her ethics and politics. Although her followers consider her theory of concept formation her greatest achievement, what grips most of her casual admirers is her ethical theory (rational selfishness) and politics (libertarianism). Unfortunately, there is no introduction that focuses on these aspects of her thought. In LOVING LIFE, Objectivist writer Craig Biddle attempts to remedy this defect with a primer on Rand's ethics and politics (although ethics gets more attention).  <br /> <br />Biddle's book has strengths and weaknesses.  Biddle writes in an exciting and fast-paced manner and provides examples and illustrations of the points he makes. Unfortunately, Biddle writes too quickly and certain points of difficulty are glossed over. Even a philosophical primer should take some notice of potential weaknesses and counter-arguments, and in this respect LOVING LIFE fails to live up to its potential.  <br /> <br />In explaining Objectivist ethics, Biddle presents several examples that appear to support Rand's claim of the relationship between life, morality, happiness, and productiveness. He mentions a corrupt bank teller and a car thief. Such individuals will get caught and be unhappy. Of course, many people who cheat and steal get caught. But many don't and in fact live quite successfully by being parasites on others. Don't these counter-examples indicate that I can advance my happiness by non-rational, non-productive means? Rather than confront these objections head-on, Mr. Biddle equivocates on the meaning of happiness. Yes, these people may appear to be happy, but they really aren't. Yes, they may have self-esteem, but it isn't the type of self-esteem that a \\"truly human\\" person would want, etc. (Incidentally, I am curious about how the claim that bad acts lead to unhappiness is consistent with the Objectivist belief in a tabula rasa mind and denial of instincts.) Lest you think I'm making this up, Biddle tells us that \\"[r]egardless of what they say, personal subjectivists are miserable people . . . .\\" [P. 29.]  How does Biddle know this? Certainly Biddle's on-the-fly conclusions are inconsistent with his commitment to empiricism. If our only source of knowledge is through the senses, then Biddle should produce the empirical studies demonstrating that swindlers get caught, car thieves are unhappy, and scoundrels have low self-esteem.  <br /> <br />There is a further problem with Biddle's discussion of lying. According to him, liars try to \\"fake reality.\\" Although their lies may appear to work, they will ultimately catch up with them because they are in \\"conflict with reality.\\" [P. 78.] Yet to be accurate liars (or at least the good ones) don't necessarily \\"fake reality\\" -- their understanding of reality is often more sophisticated than the people they deceive. Consider the forty-second president: he understood political reality better than his opponents, who consistently overplayed their hand.  <br /> <br />There also are several other problems with LOVING LIFE, only three of which I'll mention:  <br /> <br />1. Biddle, like Rand, presents a caricatured history of philosophy.  His attack on Hume is extremely unfair. Hume did not despise reason or consider it irrelevant in moral considerations. Readers might consult Donald Livingston's book PHILOSOPHICAL MELANCHOLY AND DELERIUM for a more balanced picture of the philosopher who may have influenced the founding fathers more than any other. Of course, what would a book by an Objectivist be without an attack on Kant? Curiously, Biddle mentions Kant only once, and argues that he was the father of \\"social subjectivism.\\" This is a complete misrepresentation of Kant's views since Kant believed the structures of the mind are fixed and the principles of morality binding on everyone whether he likes it or not. <br /> <br />2. Biddle takes Tertullian's famous statement \\"it is to be believed because it is absurd\\" out of context.  [P. 16.]  Tertullian wasn't making a generalized claim that religious beliefs are irrational or absurd, thus somehow enhancing their believability. Rather, he was discussing a particular belief of the heretic Marcion. Marcion rejected the Christian dogma that Christ had a literal body. Tertullian argued that Marcion's rejection of this belief paradoxically made it more likely. In fact, James Moffat argued in 1916 that Tertullian's famous statement was actually an example of an Aristotelian type of argumentation. Tertullian was arguing, in effect, that since it was so unlikely that God would appear in the flesh, the fact that people believe such a thing lends credibility because no one would make it up. [Journal of Theological Studies 17 (1916) pp. 170-1 (which is available on the web).] Say what you want about Tertullian's reasoning, he probably wasn't the irrationalist that Biddle makes him out to be. He had a high opinion of reason as a gift of God and used the arguments of pagan philosophers when appropriate. [See R.E. Roberts, THE THEOLOGY OF TERTULLIAN, pp. 63-78 (also available on the web).] <br /> <br />3. Biddle quotes from Hermann Rauschning's alleged talks with Adolf Hitler. [P. 40.] Rauschning was a Nazi leader in Danzig who met Hitler on a few occasions. He was never a confidant of Hitler's, making his claim that Hitler revealed his most private thoughts to him is rather unlikely. Hitler's definitive biographer Ian Kershaw does not consider the Rauschning material trustworthy. [See Kershaw, HITLER, vol. 1, p. xiv.] Richard Steigmann-Gall calls it \\"highly questionable\\" and says that the consensus among historians is that it is \\"fraudulent.\\" [THE HOLY REICH, pp. 28-29.]  <br /> <br />LOVING LIFE is a good overview of Rand's ethics and, by its omissions, helps highlight certain problems in Rand's arguments.  Readers wanting a more detailed discussion of Objectivist ethics should consult Tara Smith's books. <br />	2004-08-28
US	52963744	R2EKN8LG9K6PUH	0385500610	994003380	The Twilight of Atheism: The Rise and Fall of Disbelief in the Modern World	Books	4	84	118	N	N	Comprehensive	Alister McGrath is a moderately conservative Evangelical theologian who was born in Northern Ireland.  After a period of atheism, he became a Christian and is now one of the most prolific theologians in the world.  In this book, he traces the rise of atheism from the time of the French revolution to its gradual decline in recent years.  <br />Prof. McGrath is a good storyteller.  Along with a discussion the seminal thinkers of atheism such as Nietzsche, Freud, Marx and Feuerbach, we get a political, historical and social overview of the entire movement.  For example, Prof. McGrath discusses recent political issues such as the turbulence of the 60s and Madeline Murray O'Hair's crusade for atheism. While this book is no substitute for more detailed studies on atheism, it provides a historical and political background that other studies generally don't.<br />Prof. McGrath is, as I said, an incredibly prolific author.  He has probably written, edited, or revised over 15 books since 2000.  Because of this, it would appear that a few too many errors and editing problems creep into his books.  For example, Robert Ingersoll is described as the &quot;great atheist&quot; when he was the &quot;great agnostic.&quot;  The former Episcopal bishop of Newark is not James Spong, but rather John Spong.  The same quote from Augustine appears twice within a few pages, etc.  In spite of these defects, THE TWILIGHT OF ATHEISM is an enjoyable work.	2004-07-16
US	52963744	RV5J6MADR07SC	0847680274	206309210	Moral Rights and Political Freedom (Studies in Social and Political Philosophy)	Books	4	11	15	N	N	A Viable Politics?	Tara Smith is a professor of philosophy and a follower of the ideas of novelist-philosopher Ayn Rand (called &quot;Objectivism&quot;).   Prof. Smith offers a strong defense of individual rights based on an Objectivist conception of reason and human nature.  (Curiously, while Rand is mentioned in the footnotes, she is never mentioned in the body of the text.)<br />There are a number of merits to this book.  Prof. Smith is a clear writer who sets forth her arguments forcefully in jargon-free language.  Unlike much Objectivist writing, she interacts with other traditions in a non-vituperative manner.  Rather than give Rand all the credit, she indicates where she is indebted to others.  Finally, she responds to potential arguments and counterexamples to her theory.  Compare, for example, her section on &quot;the ethics of emergencies&quot; with Rand's article of the same name.  Rand's article quickly descends into a screed against &quot;altruism.&quot;<BR> <BR>Prof. Smith argues that rights find their justification in man's need to advance his own life.  Without rights, I can't exercise my reason and therefore can't live.  Prof. Smith's argument, although fairly persuasive, runs into some obvious problems.  Most importantly is the question of why one person should respect the rights of others.  If, as Prof. Smith argues, rights have an egoistic foundation, then why should I respect someone else's rights?  In fairness, to Prof. Smith, she realizes that this is a question that needs to be addressed, but I don't find her answer completely satisfactory.  Finally, is the only justification for rights their role in advancing life?  If I knew that I was going to die next week, would it be okay for me to cheat and steal?<br />Prof. Smith is also the author of a work on metaethics called VIABLE VALUES, which is quite good.  A work that interacts with some of the topics covered by Prof. Smith is Roderick Long's REASON AND VALUE: ARISTOTLE VERSUS RAND (which, unfortunately does not reference Prof. Smith).  Thomas Fleming takes on the tradition represented by Prof. Smith in THE MORALITY OF EVERDAY LIFE.	2004-06-19
US	52963744	R1TJRF8L6PWHBP	0826215092	660062105	The Morality of Everyday Life: Rediscovering an Ancient Alternative to the Liberal Tradition	Books	5	50	55	N	N	Think Locally, Act Locally	THE MORALITY OF EVERYDAY LIFE is one of the more interesting books on ethics that I've read in a while.  Thomas Fleming, a top paleconservative writer, contrasts an \\"ancient alternative\\" to the liberal tradition.  The liberal tradition (growing out of Descartes, Locke and others) is characterized by certain assumptions: Individuals and governments are the central players in ethical considerations; moral behavior is a question on rational decision-making; moral principles must be applied with equal consistency to all situations. <br />Yet the ancient (and in fact almost universal) way of looking at moral questions is different.  I have different obligations to different people.  My duties to family and the world are not equal.  Charity, as they say, beings at home.  To the liberal \\"citizen of the world\\" this is provincialism at its worst.  \\"[T]here is a consistency of tone, a certain universal high-mindedness that is impatient with distinctions and disdainful of irrational attachments.  Sentiments of loyalty, because they are not entirely rational, do not yield their secrets to analysis or measurement.\\"  [p. 103.]  People who profess a love for mankind first and foremost have the tendency to be cruel to their family and friends.  It's easy to justify almost anything in the name of one's love for mankind.  (A point made in Paul Johnson's suggestive, if problematic book, INTELLECTUALS.)  <br />Dr. Fleming's book, as one might suggest by my brief description, is hardly rationalistic and abstract.  There are plenty of examples from \\"everyday life\\" illustrating the arguments of the book.  My only complaint is that I had hoped Dr. Fleming would have situated his ethical approach within the tradition advanced by writers of the Old Right.  Richard Weaver and Robert Nisbet are mentioned once, and Russell Kirk not at all.	2004-06-13
US	52963744	R2TCSSF3WTT1AP	0826215122	965999282	Russell Kirk and the Age of Ideology	Books	5	12	15	N	N	Champion of the Permanent Things	Russell Kirk was the preeminent American conservative thinker in the 20th century.  He produced a huge volume of nonfiction, literature, essays, and also edited many important works as well.  Although Kirk is occasionally praised by the &quot;conservative&quot; establishment (in reality, the neoconservative controlled beltway establishment), he is for the most part ignored today.  There hasn't been much in the way of secondary studies of Kirk.  James Person's book is fairly good, but is more of a biography of Kirk and an overview of his thought, rather than a critical study.  Prof. McDonald's book should go a long way to restoring Kirk to his place in conservative thought.<br />As I've said before, Kirk tends to be a rather opaque writer.  Kirk rarely presented definitive plans to solve specific problems.  Instead he offered a general approach to society based on respect for tradition and some general &quot;canons&quot; of conservative thought.  For this reason, Kirks opposed libertarianism.  Besides libertarianism being wrong on certain issues, libertarianism represents an &quot;ideology&quot; -- a preplanned approach to society which (to that extent) is similar to socialism.  As someone once said, certain political systems offer the &quot;One Big Solution&quot; to the &quot;One Big Problem.&quot;  To Kirk, society's problems are more complex.<br />The best part of this book concerns the chapter on &quot;moral imagination,&quot; which plays a central role in Kirk's thoughts.  McDonald also highlights the influence of Irving Babbit and Paul Elmer More on Kirk.  There is also an excellent discussion of Kirk and the Natural Law.  I enjoyed the brief discussion outlining the differences between the Old Right (writers such as Kirk and Nisbet), paleoconservatism, and neoconservatism.	2004-05-29
US	52963744	RIXGTFY8S5NW2	0945466048	249943022	15 Great Austrian Economists	Books	4	6	6	N	N	The Meaning of Greatness	The Austrian School of Economics had its beginning in 1871, when Carl Menger published his pioneering work on marginal utility theory.  Since then, members of the Austrian School have been the most consistent advocates of free market thought, making unparalleled contributions in economic thought including business cycle theory, monetary thought, methodology, and a sustained critique of interventionist fallacies.<br /><br />Yet there are a couple of things that have to be kept in mind.  First, the Austrian school had certain antecedents, going back to Spanish Scholastic though and also French thinkers such as Turgot.  Second, there are some thinkers who were broadly in the Austrian tradition (such as Hutt) who made important contributions to Austrian thought.  So, one can discern an Austrian \\"tradition\\" in economics.<br /><br />The essays collected here highlight 15 of the key thinkers in the Austrian tradition.  Some thinkers - such as von Mises and Hayek - are well known.  Others - such as Frank Fetter - are not (even though he was the key Austrian between Bohm-Bawerk and Mises.)<br />One of the most interesting essays is Jeff Tucker's on Henry Hazlitt.  Before reading the essay I knew that he was a journalist and the other of important works such as ECONOMICS IN ONES LESSON. However, I had no idea of his fascinating life and his contribution in popularizing Austrian ideas.  Hazlitt was one of the first to review THE ROAD TO SERFDOM, which led to the huge popularity of the book.  Curiously, he was commissioned to write Bertrand Russell's biography (which he never completed, because Russell decided to write his own.)<br />Murray Rothbard (the subject of an excellent essay by Hoppe) wrote a history of economic thought from the Austrian point of view, which is in print.  Unfortunately, he died before completing it.	2004-05-12
US	52963744	R23VY4SKZO0CCJ	0415130603	646334421	Philosophy of Mind: A Contemporary Introduction (Routledge Contemporary Introductions to Philosophy)	Books	4	31	35	N	N	It Usually Begins With Descartes	PHILOSOPHY OF MIND is one of Routledge's &quot;Contemporary Introduction to Philosophy&quot; series.  Although there are other similar series, this is my favorite because the contributions are particularly comprehensive.<br />Professor Heil's work is no exception.  This book takes as its point of departure (like most such works it seems) Descartes' approach to the mind/body problem.  Prof. Heil then discusses important philosophical and psychological approaches (Watson and Skinner, for example) to the philosophy of mind.<br />The work discusses some of the questions that are often left out of introductory works on the topic, such as artificial intelligence and biological evolution.  This book can be used by someone who is a beginner, or someone who is familiar with the basic issues in philosophy but wishes to get a better understanding of the issues.  <br />I've just finished reading Stanley Jaki's BRAIN, MIND AND COMPUTERS which discusses many of these issue from a broader theological and philosophical perspective.  I think the books  complement each other quite well.	2004-05-11
US	52963744	R3M84K0X64HH88	0452278872	559222502	The Journals of Ayn Rand	Books	4	9	14	N	N	An Excellent Companion to the Letters	The JOURNALS OF AYN RAND is an important addition to the large body of work by and about Ayn Rand.  This work is put out by Rand's Estate, which worked with scholars associated with the Ayn Rand Institute (ARI).  JOURNALS contains an introduction and notes by editor David Harriman which are, for the most part, helpful.  There is a forward by Leonard Peikoff which is pretty much what you would expect.<br />Rand wrote out her notes in complete sentences, so there is a good deal of lengthy philosophical and other matters contained in this book.  One of the best parts her notes for a work Rand started after THE FOUNTAINHEAD, called THE MORAL BASIS OF INDIVIDUALISM.  It's over 60 pages long.  Particularly revealing are the notes for an early story called &quot;The Little Street&quot; which is highly Nietzschian in tone, as even the editor had to admit.  (Peikoff's forward attempts to downplay the influence of Nietzsche on Rand's thought.)<br />One thing I found interesting is that most of the journal entries are before 1955.  However, Rand didn't start writing philosophical essays until after that.  JOURNALS includes some notes for the articles that make up INTRODUCTION TO OBJECTIVIST EPISTEMOLOGY, but that's about it.   Editor Harriman tells us that Rand made only brief outlines for her philosophical essays, and felt that publishing them wouldn't add much.  I would like to take Harriman's word for it.  But was there no benefit to publishing these outlines?  This might be a minor point, but for the fact that there are reasons to question the accuracy of the JOURNALS.  Prior to this book, some small portions of Rand's journals were published by ARI-associated scholars.  In an entry dated January 20, 1947, the previously published version contains a reference to Albert J. Nock, which is left out in the version published in JOURNALS.  There are other changes as well, such as the removal of &quot;duty&quot; in a passage on ethics.  [Sciabarra,&quot;Bowlderizing Ayn Rand&quot;, Liberty, Sept. 1998.]  This isn't a big deal to fans and casual students, but to scholars attempting to sort out the influence of other thinkers on Rand's thought, it is a big problem.	2004-04-22
US	52963744	R27DM9WXN0H8NX	0801040337	727429384	Basic Christian Doctrines	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Protestantism 101	Carl F. H. Henry (1913-2003) was one of the most important evangelical theologians of the twentieth century.  He was instrumental in the founding of Christianity Today and Fuller Theological Seminary, both of which have drifted toward liberalism as of late.  (Fuller's slide toward liberalism is detailed in George Marsden's REFORMING FUNDAMENTALISM.)<br />In 1960 or so, Christianity Today serially published a number of brief essays on various topics in theology, which were published together in this book.  (Christianity Today was more scholarly and conservative in those days.)  These essays (which number 43, plus a postscript by Roger Nicole) were written by some of the most prominent evangelical thinkers of the day, including Cornelius van Til, F. F. Bruce, G. E. Ladd, and E. J. Carnell.  Actually, just about all the deep thinkers in Evangelical Christianity of the time except Gordon Clark appeared to have contributed to this project.<br />This book is an informative mini-systematic theology.  It's a good place to start if you want an introduction to conservative Protestant theology.	2004-04-14
US	52963744	R2FL65MHJ5FOTK	0945466382	323574425	Speaking of Liberty	Books	5	44	47	N	N	In the spirit of von Mises and Rothbard	Ludwig von Mises and Murray Rothbard were not only great theoretical economists, but also excellent popularizers.  In particular, von Mises hasn't received the credit he deserves for his outstanding popular presentations of the case for individual freedom.  Their work is continued today by Llewellyn Rockwell, the founder of the Ludwig von Mises Institute.<br />The Institute has published this collection of Rockwell's speeches in which Rockwell brilliantly makes the case for free enterprise and individual freedom.  Rockwell has a knack for taking an insight of Mises's or Rothbard's and applying it to current events.  For example, why is the Federal Reserve only criticized when it raises interest rates?  If politicians were truly concerned about the economy, they would worry about the Fed lowering interest rates and creating artificial booms. There is a particularly powerful chapter concerning the negative effects of &quot;civil rights&quot; (anti-discrimination) laws and how such laws impede individual freedom and probably don't do much to help their intended beneficiaries (although they always increase the power of the state).  Rockwell is prescient as well.  He pointed out in the 90s that the &quot;new era&quot; boom couldn't continue, and when I was reading his 1998 article on Iraq I almost forgot that he was writing about Clinton and not George W. Bush.  One of the best chapters concerns the presidency.  Rockwell shows that both the left and the neocon &quot;right&quot; embrace the imperial presidency with almost equal enthusiasm.<br />SPEAKING OF LIBERTY also contains two interviews with Rockwell.  He explains the rise of the modern libertarian movement and its relationship to conservatism (although I don't think he is completely fair to Russell Kirk).  The bibliography, which contains a list of recommended books on liberty (not a few of which I've reviewed), is also excellent.	2004-03-25
US	52963744	R20PFI2RCTAQH1	0945466307	640921190	Man, Economy, and State with Power and Market, Scholar's Edition	Books	5	18	23	N	N	A Triumph	In 1962, Murray Rothbard published his epic MAN, ECONOMY, AND STATE (MES).  In 1970, Rothbard's powerful critique of government intervention in the economy, POWER AND MARKET (P&amp;M) was published.   However, P&amp;M was originally part of MES.  For reasons of length and content (P&amp;M was seen as too radical) MES' original publisher decided not to publish the work as a unified whole.<br />Over 40 years later, the Ludwig von Mises Institute has remedied this sad situation by publishing these works as a whole.  Even if you own MES and P&amp;M, you need to get this &quot;scholar's edition.&quot;  First, the new version is in hardcover.  Second, the endnotes have been converted to footnotes.  Third, the new edition contains an excellent introduction by Joseph Stromberg describing in detail the writing of the book, based on documents in Rothbard's papers.<br />I've reviewed MES and P&amp;M on Amazon, so I won't repeat my comments here.  Suffice it to say, this is one of the great works of economic scholarship of the twentieth century. No student of liberty will want to be without it.	2004-03-14
US	52963744	R17BL6QFC1F5QR	0802839274	58074630	3: A Scientific Theology: Theory	Books	3	19	20	N	N	Interesting, but . . .	THEORY is the third and final volume of Alister McGrath's A SCIENTIFIC THEOLOGY, a work of over 400,000 words.  This series seeks to study the methodology of the natural sciences and attempt to correlate and apply them to the study of theology.  Prof. McGrath is clear that it isn't a work of systematic theology, but rather a methodological prolegomena to a soon to be published systematic theology.  (For some reason, the book jacket for all three volumes describes it as a \\"systematic theology\\" anyway.)<br />As I've mentioned in my previous reviews, these books contain numerous interesting background studies that would be of help to anyone interested in the relationship between religion and science.  On the other hand, these books come across as something like a collection of encyclopedia articles interspersed with a few observations by Prof. McGrath setting forth his own positions in a somewhat cursory manner.<br />Reviewing the final chapter, entitled \\"The Place of Metaphysics in a Scientific Theology\\", shows what is wrong with this work.  McGrath discusses Ayer, Mach, Carnap, John Milton, Ritschl, Schleiermacher, Iris Murdoch, Ayn Rand (that's not a misprint), protocol sentences, etc.  All of it is highly informative.  I didn't know that Milton wrote an anti-metaphysical treatise on theology that wasn't rediscovered until 1823.  Yet the points that McGrath makes are relatively few and general: we cannot escape metaphysics, even those who advocate a \\"functional Christology\\" are implicitly making metaphysical claims, and the like.<br />The entire series gives indications of being hastily written.  Besides being repetitive, it appears that Prof. McGrath has read and written more on these issues than actually thinking about them.  For example, on page 272, he states that E. O. Wilson's book CONSCILIENCE is \\"important\\" and discusses it in some detail.  Yet in volume two, he said that the book was \\"disappointing.\\"  On the next page he tells us that B.B. Warfield was Charles Hodge's \\"colleague\\" at Princeton.  In fact, Warfield didn't start teaching at Princeton until after Hodge died.	2004-02-29
US	52963744	R1XX87A2T81GS5	0802839266	774456972	2: A Scientific Theology: Reality	Books	3	17	19	N	N	Informative, but . . . .	Last year, I reviewed the first volume of Alister McGrath's A SCIENTIFIC THEOLOGY.  This work seeks to study the methodology of the natural sciences and attempt to correlate and apply them to the study of theology.  Prof. McGrath is clear that it isn't a work of systematic theology, but rather a methodological prolegomena to a soon to be published systematic theology.  (For some reason, the book jacket for all three volumes describes it as a \\"systematic theology\\" anyway.)<br />As I pointed out, volume 1 (NATURE) contained a lot of interesting background studies that would be of help to anyone interested in the relationship between religion and science.  On the other hand, the book came across as something like a collection of encyclopedia articles interspersed with a few observations by McGrath setting forth his own positions in a somewhat cursory manner.<br />Unfortunately, the same may be said of volume 2 (REALITY).  This work is a discussion of the nature of reality from the \\"critical realist\\" perspective.  Like volume 1, there are lots of background studies.  You get four pages on the \\"Sokal hoax,\\" an extend discussion of John Milbank's THEOOLOGY AND SOCIAL THEORY, a discussion of John Searle's THE CONSTRUCTION OF SOCIAL REALITY, seven pages about postmodernist theologian Don Cupitt, etc.  All of this is quite interesting, but how it all relates to Dr. McGrath's ideas isn't entirely clear.  <br />As in volume 1, Prof. McGrath's positions aren't well developed.  He constantly reminds us that truth is mediated by a community and that claims of \\"neutrality\\" are part of the allegedly discredited \\"Enlightenment project.\\"  Maybe, but is 2+2=4 or \\"God exists\\" \\"mediated\\" truths?  Is it only more \\"complex\\" ideas, such as Anselm's theory of the atonement (which was apparently framed within the context of medieval law) that are \\"mediated\\"?  I'm sure Dr. McGrath has a way of sorting out these questions, but sustained arguments shouldn't be hard to find in a three voume series of 400,000 words.	2004-02-29
US	52963744	R15QKUHV5Y3BIB	0895261715	427240337	The Conservative Mind: From Burke to Eliot	Books	5	39	44	N	N	A Founding Document of Modern Conservatism	Russell Kirk burst onto the scene in 1953 with the publication of THE CONSERVATIVE MIND, which helped set the course of conservative thought for years.  (Murray Rothbard wrote somewhere that prior to this work, conservatives were generally called \\"the right.\\")  This work went through several editions, and the final (seventh) edition came out in 1986.<br />The focus of this book is Anglo-American conservatism, however Tocqueville does get some attention.  Kirk starts with his hero, Edmund Burke (widely seen as the father of modern conservatism) and develops the principle conservative themes down to roughly present times. I found Kirk's discussion of American history quite interesting.  He sees Jefferson as a conservative thinker and views Hamilton as a liberal.<br />Kirk introduces you to a number of important authors who aren't generally mentioned by conservatives today.  One such writer is the W.H. Mallock who wrote a number of important works attacking socialism and liberalism.  Kirk's discussion of Mallock is important in that Mallock emphasized the importance of inequality.  As Mallock noted, society advances when those of superior ability are permitted to utilize their talents as much as possible.  The less able are in fact the principle beneficiaries of such a system.  (This is what Ayn Rand called the \\"pyramid of ability\\" principle years later.  Hence George Reismann, in CAPITALISM, appears incorrect in claiming that it was Rand who first identified the principle.)<br />Russell Kirk was a member of the Old Right (other leading representatives being Robert Nisbet, Richard Weaver, and Donald Davidson).  It's not quite accurate to label him a \\"paleoconservative\\" because paleoconservatism has a populist bent not present in the Old Right.	2004-02-14
US	52963744	R1XW275CMTT8HV	0521597455	892759168	In Defense of Pure Reason: A Rationalist Account of A Priori Justification (Cambridge Studies in Philosophy)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Reason Vindicated	Laurence BonJour has written an outstanding defense of \\"pure reason\\", i.e., the idea that the human mind can, by way of rational insight, arrive at certain truths about the nature of reality.  These truths are known \\"a priori\\" and do not rely on the senses for their justification.  The most obvious examples of a priori knowledge are the laws of logic and mathematics.  Although certain a priori truths may have some empirical content (for example, the statement that something can't be all red and all green at the same time), even these truths are not justified on empirical grounds.<br />This view is, broadly speaking, called rationalism and is the dominant position in the history of philosophy.  Not only was it advocated by explicit rationalists such as Plato, but also philosophers considered empiricists, such as Locke and Aristotle, were rationalists.  It wasn't until Hume and his followers that rationalism went challenged.  (Prof. BonJour has an interesting take on Kant, whom he places within the empiricist tradition.)  In our day, rationalism has been defended by many distinguished (and diverse) philosophers such as Brand Blanshard, A. C. Ewing, Gordon Clark, and Roderick Chisolm.<br />Prof. BonJour elaborates on the standard rationalist argument that any attempt to build a rigorously empirical epistemology must ultimately depend on a priori insight.  Take the above statement that something can't be all red and all green at the same time.  How many examples of red and green objects would we have to observe to come to that conclusion?  How would we know that we have made enough observations to be confident in our conclusion?  In addition, how can we come to the conclusion given that nothing is entirely red or entirely green?  As Brand Blanshard notes somewhere, even a not particularly bright person can cut to the heart of such matters by viewing just one object and applying his rather limited abilities of reflection.<br />Prof. BonJour's book is quite comprehensiveand refutes many of the standard critiques of rationalism.  In addition, he has a particularly devastating chapter on W.V.O Quine and his \\"naturalized epistemology.\\"  I highly recommend Prof. BonJour's other books, THE STRUCTURE OF EMPIRICAL KNOWLEDGE and EPISTEMOLOGY.	2004-01-31
US	52963744	R1KQGTEANW4IUV	1581343426	434324526	The Postmodern World: Discerning the Times and the Spirit of Our Age	Books	4	9	9	N	N	Good Introduction	Millard Erickson is a well-respected evangelical theologian.  His CHRISTIAN THEOLOGY is the most widely used systematic theology in Baptist seminaries in the United States.  In recent years, he has turned his attention to post modernism.  This work is a popularly written critique of postmodernism from a Christian perspective.  <br />This books focuses on Foucault and Derrida and also the American pragmatist Richard Rorty.  I've read next to nothing of Foucault and Derrida, so I don't know if Prof. Erickson's reading of their &quot;texts&quot; is accurate, but from my reading of Prof. Erickson's other books, it seems that he always tries to be fair to those with whom he disagrees.<br />Prof. Erickson sees postmodernism as a sort of relativism.  Through an analysis of TV shows, political debates, and cultural changes, he shows how relativism has pervaded Western life.  Many people, including ostensibly conservative Christians, have accepted some of the presuppositions of postmodernism even as they profess their admiration for historic Christianity.<br />Prof. Erickson has written a more detailed and scholarly critique of postmodernism called TRUTH OR CONSEQUENCES.  His books POSTMODERNIZING THE FAITH and THE EVANGELICAL LEFT are also relevant.	2004-01-27
US	52963744	R1X1QB2L99E1DH	0813307635	696200852	Universals: An Opinionated Introduction (Focus Series)	Books	5	16	19	N	N	Readable Introduction	If, like many people, your first introduction to philosophy came through the writings of Ayn Rand, you might have a significant amount of \\"unlearning\\" to do.  Although Rand had some interesting things to say (generally limited to culture and politics), her writings in purely technical areas of philosophy are highly problematic and at times grossly ill informed.  Her discussion of the &quot;problem of universals&quot; is paradigmatic.<br />The problem of universals is, contrary to Rand, a problem of metaphysics, not epistemology.  Why's that?  Because it concerns the nature of reality and whether or not there exists something beyond &quot;particulars,&quot; something which &quot;instantiates&quot; these particulars.  For example, there are many objects (particulars)that are red.  But where (if anywhere) is &quot;redness&quot; (a universal)?  That's a metaphysical, not an epistemological question.  And, contrary to Rand, there are only two theories of universals: nominalism and realism.  (Alternative theories, such as conceptualism, are versions of nominalism, generally speaking.)  Rand's theory, it turns out, is best seen as a version of moderate nominalism.<br />I don't know of an introductory work on this subject that is suited for someone without much knowledge of philosophy.  However, D.M. Armstrong's UNIVERSALS: AN OPINIONATED INTRODUCTION is a good place to start if you have some background in philosophy (or are willing to work a little harder than usual).<br />I've also purchased J.P. Moreland's UNIVERSALS which is even more advanced and takes issue with Armstrong on certain points.	2004-01-06
US	52963744	R2WHZ10MHTYFCK	0452274044	388725486	Letters of Ayn Rand	Books	4	13	14	N	N	The Other Side of Ayn Rand	This collection of Ayn Rand's letters is an interesting and important addition to her works.  It was edited by Michael Berliner, then-executive director of the Ayn Rand Institute.  (ARI advocates the \\"Official Objectivism\\" of Leonard Peikoff.)  For those who know Rand through her at times shrill writing and the self-serving accounts of former insiders, this collection presents a valuable \\"other side\\" to Rand.  Written over a period of 55 years, we read love letters to her husband, letters to friends and fans, and letters to politicians.  In fact, Rand corresponded with some of the most famous people of the century, such as Alexander Kerensky, H. L. Mencken, Frank Lloyd Wright, and Barry Goldwater, to name a few.  The philosophical portions of the letters are quite meaty, and Rand obviously put a great deal of effort into her correspondence.<br />Not surprisingly, the only letters to Nathaniel Branden included were written before he became her associate.  The end result is that Branden's contributions to Objectivism are downplayed, which is typical of the material produced by the ARI.  (For example, even though Rand approved of Branden's writings published prior to their split, they do not appear in THE AYN RAND LEXICON or other post-split collections.)<br />The most interesting selections are the letters to Isabel Paterson and the distinguished philosopher John Hospers.  In order to get permission to quote Hospers' comments contained in Rand's letters, the editor was obliged to include a statement from Hospers.  As Hospers says, Rand occasionally misrepresented or misunderstood his point, so printing only Rand's letters to Hospers makes him \\"look like a bloody fool. . . . And that isn't quite fair, is it?\\"	2003-12-10
US	52963744	R1V5SQ02OCKAFZ	0893851264	139548102	The Intemperate Professor and Other Cultural Splenetics	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Kirk's Best Collection of Essays?	Russell Kirk was a prolific writer and there are several collections of his essays in print.  Many of the essays in the various collections cover a common ground, so it's tempting to say that if you've read one or two collections, you've read them all.  On the other hand, this is one of the better collections and makes a good introduction to Kirk's work.  In a number of relatively short essays, Kirk gives his views on a myriad of subjects, including religion, education, politics, and architecture.  Perhaps the best essay is &quot;The Rarity of the God-Fearing Man&quot; which concerns the sappiness of contemporary religion.<BR> <BR>This collection came out in 1965 and some (or all) were updated for the second edition in 1988.	2003-12-04
US	52963744	R2VL5NS4PQOZL4	188257771X	130964252	A Life of One's Own: Individual Rights and the Welfare State	Books	4	4	8	N	N	Man Versus the Welfare State	David Kelley is an Objectivist philosopher who, although in general agreement with the thought of Ayn Rand, is not aligned with Official Objectivism.  (You can read more about his split with Official Objectivism in his book TRUTH AND TOLERATION.)<BR> <BR>A LIFE OF ONE'S OWN is a compact, well-argued book that takes on the welfare state.  In addition to a discussion of the morality of the welfare state, Kelley provides an excellent background of how it began, the extensive system of private charity that was in place before it, and a critique of the arguments used to justify welfare \\"rights.\\"<BR> <BR>Kelley is persuasive in his critique of the augments in favor of welfare rights, but skates over some of the broader cultural issues.  The acceptance of the welfare state is at least partly due to the individualism fostered by Randians and their ilk.  As the family declines and people become more rootless (which happens when individualism increases), the need for welfare increases instead of decreases.  This was argued by Nisbett years ago in THE QUEST FOR COMMUNITY.  While one can certainly make a case against excessive altruism, Kelley largely ignores the central question of what individuals owe each other.  It simply doesn't do, as Rand once suggested, that the response to those who ask about the needs of the deserving poor: &quot;If you want to help them, nothing is stopping you.&quot;  To say that it is morally praiseworthy (and perhaps even a moral obligation) for wealthier people to help the deserving poor does not itself justify sacrificing humanity on the altar of Big Government.<BR> <BR>This book is certainly a cut above the normal Objectivist discussion.  Rand is only mentioned twice, and we are spared the usual snide Objectivist attacks on religion.  (The parable of the Good Samaritan is even held up as an example of non-coercive charity).	2003-11-06
US	52963744	R3IZLSVQYNK0V9	0895267616	322080791	Prospects for Conservatives	Books	5	20	20	N	N	Have We Any Hope?	Russell Kirk's PROSPECTS FOR CONSERVATIVES was first published in 1954 as A PROGRAM FOR CONSERVATIVES and was from time to time updated.  It might be the most fundamental statement of Kirk's philosophy.  This version, which came out in 1989, was the final revision.  <BR> <BR>Kirk was, of course, one of the premier conservative thinkers in the second half of the twentieth century.  He wrote 30 books, hundreds of articles, and a weekly column for 14 years (which unfortunately has not been reprinted).  <BR> <BR>I certainly enjoyed this work, and it shares the strengths and weaknesses of Kirk's writings.  Although well written, its arguments can be a bit hard to follow.  As Kirk says, he's setting forth general principles, not recommending specific politicians or plans.  If you are used to the &quot;take no prisoners&quot; approach of Murray Rothbard, you might find Kirk's writings a bit slow going.<BR> <BR>Kirk was not a libertarian (in fact, they were frequent targets of his).  He probably wasn't a &quot;minimal government conservative&quot; either.  On the other hand, he was a staunch opponent of the centralizing leviathan state.  For example, he opposed the federal school lunch program and opposed the US attack on Hiroshima and Nagasaki.  He even went so far as to say &quot;[a]fter all our humanitarian bragging, in the course of the war [WW II], we behaved precisely as we accused our enemies of behaving.  [p. 224.]  You certainly don't hear that opinion much expressed on the neocon &quot;right&quot; these days.<BR> <BR>This book is an excellent place to start if you want to understand Kirk's though.  In particular, chapter 7 - &quot;The Question of Wants&quot; - is quintessentially Kirkian.  His recently republished THE AMERICAN CAUSE is a more basic statement of his views.	2003-10-28
US	52963744	R1IBZ74IL49QNW	1572460229	558197394	Liberalism: The Classical Tradition	Books	5	13	14	N	N	Liberalism for beginners	Ludwig von Mises was a great champion of individual freedom and limited government.  Much of his work was devoted to showing the impracticality of socialist and interventionist schemes.  However, his work wasn't entirely negative.  In the 1920s, he published LIBERALISM, which was his positive statement of the case for individual freedom, or what was then called \\"liberalism\\"  (which is to say, \\"classical\\" liberalism rather than \\"Teddy Kennedy\\" liberalism).<br />There is much that could be said about this book, so I'll just hit on a couple points.  First, as Hans-Herman Hoppe notes, von Mises argues for the right of succession.  If one portion of a country (even down to an entity that can function as a \\"separate administrative unit\\") wishes to secede, it should have the right to do so.  Although Mises opposed anarchism, this position \\"logically\\" leads to anarchism.  If \\"the state\\" is a voluntary organization that permits small groups to secede, then it isn't much of a state.  Murray Rothbard drew upon this insight in making the case for anarcho-capitalism.  (See POWER AND MARKET.)  Second, von Mises rejects the natural law tradition of other liberal thinkers.  His case for equality before the law is based on utilitarianism.  Men are unequal, but this limited equality permits the division of labor and promotes social peace.<br />This book also provides a good introduction to von Mises' thought.  A couple other introductory works by him for the beginner are THE ANTI-CAPITALIST MENTALITY and PLANNING FOR FREEDOM.	2003-10-21
US	52963744	R22R76URDMBKIE	0870000705	725708341	Theory and History: An interpretation of social and economic evolution	Books	5	51	56	N	N	The Methodology Of Individualism	Ludwig von Mises wrote four masterpieces: THE THEORY OF MONDEY AND CREDIT, SOCIALISM, HUMAN ACTION, and THEORY AND HISTORY.  THEORY AND HISTORY was published in 1957 and is the easiest of the four books, and a good starting point to understand the philosophical underpinnings of Mises' thought.<BR> <BR>THEORY AND HISTORY is an outstanding work on the methodology of the social sciences.  As usual, Mises uses economics and sociology to criticize all varieties of leftism.  The starting point for von Mises is the acting individual.  Man acts rationally to achieve certain ends.  What appears to be collective action is simply the action of numerous individuals.  Based on this, Mises shows that collectivist theories fail to take into account the essentially individualist nature of human action.  Marx claimed to be a scientist of the inevitable forces of human action, yet he inconsistently involved himself in day-to-day politics.  Engles went so far as to say that had Napoleon died when he was young, history would have produced another Napoleon.  Mises then discusses theories of history such as those advanced by Buckle, Spengler, and Toynbee.<BR> <BR>One of the most exciting things about reading von Mises is how socialist fallacies fall page after page.  Not only does he refute their fallacies, but he has a way of seeing right through them.  For example, how can one criticize modern capitalist society for being &quot;materialistic'&quot; when it allows the common man to attend Beethoven concerts?<BR> <BR>Von Mises dealt with methodology in THE ULTIMATE FOUNDATION OF ECONOMIC SCIENCE, EPISTEMOLOGICAL PROBLEMS OF ECONOMICS, and HUMAN ACTION.	2003-10-09
US	52963744	R3UC8CISQ0MXN3	0945466366	334583670	Epistemological Problems of Economics	Books	5	14	14	N	N	Theory and History	EPISTEMOLOGICAL PROBLEMS IN ECONOMICS is a seminal work by Ludwig von Mises.  Actually, the English translation of the title is somewhat misleading.  This work (which is a collection of essays) deals not only with methodological issues but broader questions of economic theory.<br />Von Mises wrote in the rationalist tradition.  According to him, the laws of economics (which are part of the more general laws of human action) are a priori.  \\"Human action always confronts experience as a complex phenomenon that first must be analyzed by a theory before it can even be set in the context of the hypothesis that could be proved or disproved.\\"  [p. 30.]  Statistics therefore have a limited role in economics, and cannot prove (or disprove) any theory.  As von Mises notes, it is not surprising that many of the great economists were also logicians.<br />This work can be a bit tough to get through.  Von Mises writing is clear as always, but some of the pieces deal with certain disputes of the day and contain discussions of thinkers who aren't widely studied today.  For example, the names of Othmar Spann, Max Weber, Friedrich Wieser and Werner Sombart are discussed extensively.  Fortunately, this edition (produced by the Ludwig von Mises Institute) contains an excellent introduction by Jorg Guido Hulsmann.  Dr. George Reisman, author of CAPITALISM, translated the book into English in 1960.	2003-10-02
US	52963744	RZ2XN9ZYN5A6C	0742513718	571427587	Epistemology: Classic Problems and Contemporary Responses (Elements of Philosophy)	Books	4	10	15	N	N	It Usually Begins With Descartes	Laurence BonJour is one of the leading epistemologists in America.  He has written two other books, IN DEFENSE OF PURE REASON and THE STRUCTURE OF EMPIRICAL KNOWLEDGE.<br />This book takes as his departure the Cartesian program.  Much of the book is a discussion of various epistemological problems analyzed in light of responses to Descartes.  (For example, Plato and Aristotle are barely mentioned, and Aquinas isn't mentioned at all.)  Many of the current issues in epistemology are discussed, such as foundationalism versus coherentism, and sense-data and adverbial theories of perception.  There is a lengthy critique of Quine's &quot;naturalized epistemology.&quot;<br />This book is part of a new series called ELEMENTS OF PHILOSOPY, which is edited by Robert Audi.  Prof. Audi has written a work entitled EPISTEMOLOGY for a different series.  That work is also recommended and covers similar ground as Prof. Bonjour's work, but is a little longer.	2003-09-13
US	52963744	R221CW3OMO6SH0	0802806856	302642933	Jesus and Israel: One Covenant or Two?	Books	5	49	50	N	N	Balanced exegesis	It's widely stated that the holocaust has led to theological reexamination on the relationship between Christianity's understanding of Jesus and the relationship between Israel and the Church.  Actually, that reexamination has been going on in Fundamentalist and Evangelical circles for a long time.  In the 19th century, ex-Anglican John Nelson Darby developed a theory known as Dispensationalism.  Prior to that time, theologians of all stripes saw the Church as the \\"New Israel\\" and saved Gentiles as replacing the Jews as God's people.  It was believed that the Old Testament promises to the Jews had been fulfilled in the church.  This view is known as \\"supersessionism\\" (sometimes called \\"replacement theology\\").  Dispensationalism advanced a novel interpretation of the covenantal structure of the Bible:  the church is a \\"parenthesis\\" in history and as soon as Christians are \\"raptured,\\" God will again deal with the Jews, who remain heirs to the Old Testament's promises.  (This is why Fundamentalists are pro-Israel and see the Jews as the rightful owners of a good chunk of Middle East territory.)  In recent years, liberal Christians (such as Cardinal Walter Kasper, head Vatican bureaucrat for Jewish/Catholic dialogue) have advocated a similar theory widely called \\"dual covenant theology\\" which teaches that God's covenant with the Jews hasn't been revoked they are in a saving covenant with God.  This theory has more to do with religious pluralism than with the high view of Scripture advocated by Dispensationalists.  (Most Dispensationalists do not think Jews can be saved without faith in Jesus.)<BR> <BR>Prof. David Holwerda has advanced an excellent defense of the traditional view (at least as its understood by many Calvinists). He shows that the Old Testament promises (such as the temple and the land) find their fulfillment in Jesus.  Besides refuting Dispensationalism, it is a \\"positive\\" presentation of the supersessionist case.  Because he sees only one covenant, thereis much more emphasis on fullfilment instead of \\"replacement.\\"  As Holwerda says, under New Testament teaching the children of Abraham have inherited the world, so it's hard to assert that the New Testament is attempting to take something from the Jews.  Nonetheless, his exegesis of one of the New Testament's more difficult portions, Romans 9-11, indicates that Paul sees a continuing role for the Jews.  (This is contrary to some Calvinists who see Romans 9-11 as dealing with spiritual Israel.)<BR> <BR>My only complaint about this book is that Prof. Holwerda's historical survey in chapter 1 deals mostly with current thinkers.  There is some discussion of contemporary thinkers such as Pinchas Lapide, Karl and Marcus Barth, and Rosemary Ruether.  I would be interested in Prof. Holwerda's opinion of how orthodox thinkers have evaluated the relationship between Israel and the church.	2003-09-12
US	52963744	R2QG5OAV92S1PL	0310286700	14879080	Systematic Theology: An Introduction to Biblical Doctrine	Books	4	7	10	N	N	Very Conservative Protestant Theology	In recent years there have been a variety of systematic theologies written by Evangelical authors.  Wayne Grudem's work is probably the best example of a systematic theology written by a very conservative Protestant.  The doctrinal lineup for this work is somewhat interesting: Reformed, charismatic, Baptist and premillennial (non dispensationalist).<br /><br />The only problem with this book is that it is focused principally on the Biblical material and provides minimal historical background to the topics addressed.  To the extent that conflicting viewpoints are discussed, it's normally within the evangelical world.  For example, there is no mention of Aquinas, much less Karl Rahner or Henri de Lubac.<br /><br />The reader approaching the study of Christian theology for the first time probably should supplement it with James Garrett's SYSTEMATIC THEOLOGY or Millard Erickson's CHRISTIAN THEOLOGY.	2003-09-10
US	52963744	R30VHPGYZWLSC6	0965320820	418382029	Rights and Duties: Reflections on Our Conservative Constitution	Books	4	8	9	N	N	Kirk on the Constitution	Russell Kirk (1918-1994) was perhaps the preeminent conservative scholar in twentieth century America, who gained national attention with THE CONSERVATIVE MIND, published 50 years ago.  Kirk had a life-long interest in the law, and was in fact a justice of the peace in Michigan for two terms.<BR> <BR>This collection (and expanded version of the CONSERVATIVE CONSTITUTION) contains a number of Kirk's articles on the Constitution and its background, which were published in various journals and law reviews.  <BR> <BR>These essays revolve around a central claim of Kirk's: the U.S. Constitution, far from being an Enlightenment document, is in fact a conservative document based on Roman, Christian, and common law sources.  As Kirk shows, contrary to the widely asserted claims, the framers were hardly deists whose main influence was John Locke.   Most professed at least some form of Christianity.  They were steeped in the common law tradition of England.  <BR> <BR>I particularly enjoyed the two articles on Church/State issue.  One concerns the well-known Alabama case of Wallace v. Jaffree, in which it was alleged that Alabama schools were teaching secular humanism, and the other the lesser-known Shelton College case.  Dr. Kirk testified as an expert in both cases.  As Kirk says, the best solution to these issues would be to put these questions back into the hands of the states and reject the incorporation doctrine.  <br />The final chapter, \\"Ideology and Property,\\" is a strong defense of private property and free enterprise.<BR> <BR>This book contains an excellent introduction by Russell Hittenger, an important legal scholar in his own right, who was an associate of Dr. Kirk's.	2003-09-01
US	52963744	R2EPCWA1MW917T	1890740101	843779715	The Great Facade: Vatican II and the Regime of Novelty in the Roman Catholic Church	Books	4	68	83	N	N	The Vatican II Regime Change	For some reason, there is a belief shared by both conservatives and liberals, that the Roman Catholic Church is a reactionary institution, intent on squelching all dissent.  John Paul II is represented as an extreme reactionary who advances Catholicism in its most traditional form.  <br />Yet what isn't so well known, is that the Roman Catholic Church underwent a cataclysmic event in the 60s: the Second Vatican Council.  Although initiated to update the church in the \\"modern world\\" it was taken over by the left.  One of the leaders at Vatican was John Paul II.  While no one denies that there have been dramatic changes since Vatican II, Woods and Ferrara argue that these changes were a direct result of the novelties introduced by Vatican II.<br />Woods and Ferrara outline the changes since then and show that many have little basis in pre-Vatican II teaching.  As a few examples, John Paul II opposes the death penalty, doesn't know if there is anyone in hell, supports evolution, permits altar girls and women serving communion, supports the UN, and holds ecumenical confabs that welcome Voodoo priests.  Some reactionary.  As our authors point out, had anyone other than John Paul II does these things, he wouldn't be considered much of a conservative.  Yet when John Paul does these things, the \\"neo-Catholics\\" feel obligated to support him.<br />Not only is John Paul II something of a progressive, but also what he permits is even more shocking.  For example, John Paul named Walter Kasper a bishop and then a cardinal, even though Kasper doesn't even believe that Jesus performed the \\"nature miracles\\" of the Scripture, or raised anyone from the dead.  [Kasper, JESUS THE CHRIST p. 90.]  Even supposed champions of orthodoxy such as Cardinal O'Connor were leftists compared to pre-Vatican II Catholicism.<br />This book has a few flaws.  It started out as a collection of articles and it could have been edited a bit better.  Some of the language will strike non-Catholics as a littleoverblown.  Nonetheless, it is one of the more eye-opening books that one could read.	2003-07-27
US	52963744	R3F9HZHEFJDTHU	0761823085	483764210	Ayn Rand, Objectivists, and the History of Philosophy	Books	3	14	21	N	N	Disappointing	Say what you want about Ayn Rand, but she wasn't an expert in the history of philosophy. It's widely conceded - even by many Objectivists - that her views on other philosophers weren't always accurate, to say the least. Her simplistic and often fanciful creation of what the leading philosophers taught has been continued by some of her followers. Nonetheless, I'm not aware of a systematic analysis of Rand's thought in this area. <br />This book contains seven chapters and three appendices. The chapters are on Plato, Augustine, Hume, Kant (2), Nietzsche, and Rand's view of art. Sometimes the chapter focuses on how Rand interpreted a given thinker, other times it focuses on what an Official Objectivist (such as Ridpath or Gotthelf) stated.<br />I'm disappointed with this work. As Prof. Seddon says in the introduction, many of the chapters in the book were published as separate articles. There's nothing wrong with that, but the book doesn't provide an overview of Rand's view of the history of philosophy. There are also 2 appendices (totaling 35 pages) which merely catalog Aristotle's references to Plato and his dialogues. That's interesting, but there is no discussion about how these citations help the reader understand Rand better. And, speaking of Aristotle, one of the book's glaring omissions is that there is no chapter on Aristotle. Rand asserted that her only philosophical debt was to Aristotle, so a discussion of whether she understood Aristotle well would be an essential part of any discussion. The chapters of the various thinkers are interesting as far as they go (particularly the one on Augustine) but there is no attempt to present them as an integrated whole.<br />This work was just recently published, so Mr. Seddon had the benefit of two recent works on Rand: Chris Sciabarra's AYN RAND: THE RUSSIAN RADICAL and Scott Ryan's critique of Rand's epistemology. Both works (particularly the first) are quite relevant to any critique of Rand's view of the history of philosophy. Unfortunately, neither is mentioned.<br />Considering the price of this book, I'm also disappointed about how poorly set it is and the large number of typos and related problems. For example, there is a reference in a footnote to a work \\"Lennox (2001).\\" Yet the bibliography contains no reference to a work by Lennox.	2003-07-04
US	52963744	R13KJ9BVZGB2VM	1568331312	661096286	Russell Kirk: A Critical Biography of a Conservative Mind	Books	4	10	11	N	N	The Custodian of Western Civilization	Russell Kirk (1918-1994) was probably the premier conservative &quot;man of letters&quot; in 20th century America.  He first gained national attention in 1953 with his publication of the CONSERVATIVE MIND.  Kirk was the author of a large number of works, including history, literary criticism, cultural analysis, fiction, and even an economics textbook.<BR> <BR>A central problem with understanding Kirk is the somewhat opaque nature of his writings.  While it's easy to see what Kirk is against, it isn't always easy to see why, or what his solution to current political and cultural problems was.  Perhaps because of this, Kirk is seldom quoted these days, and there hasn't been much in the way of secondary studies on his thought.<BR> <BR>James Person has written a reliable overview of Kirk's thought (which also contains a modest biography of sorts).  Person organizes this work thematically, hitting on the key areas of Kirk's thought (including discussions of his fiction, as well).  My only gripe is that the book could have used a bit more editing.  Sentences tend to drag on, and some of the writing is a bit &quot;chatty&quot; for a scholarly work.  (Mr. Person hasn't heard of Orwell's rule about not using two words when one will do.)<BR> <BR>In light of the current &quot;conservative wars&quot; I found portions of this book (published in 1999) quite interesting.  I didn't know that Kirk's last foray into politics was in 1992 when he was chairman of Pat Buchanan's Michigan campaign.  It's not surprising that Kirk is ignored by the neocon nitwits who run the conservative movement today.  There is also an interesting story about how Kirk was attacked by certain Straussian neocons concerning his criticisms of Lincoln.  Although Kirk disagreed with much of Lincoln's agenda, he called Lincoln a &quot;conservative&quot; and a &quot;great man.&quot;  Much to the consternation of the neocons, anything less than total support of King Abraham wasn't good enough.	2003-06-28
US	52963744	R2GIWCQK8MIZOH	0865974098	239089407	The Present Age: Progress and Anarchy in Modern America	Books	5	14	15	N	N	Vintage Nisbet	Commemorating, so to speak, the 200th anniversary of the ratification of the U.S. Constitution, Robert Nisbet (1913-1996) asked what would strike the founders as the major surprises from the time of the founding to today.  According to Nisbet, these are: the importance of war for America; the growth of government; and the \\"loose\\" (rootless) individual. <BR> <BR>Nibset analyzes these changes from 1914-1989, providing a rapid historical and sociological overview of that time period.  In discussing the growth of government, Nisbet shows that Burnham was correct that the U.S. government was in fact taken over by the &quot;managerial elite&quot; at the time of Wilson.  America has adopted a Wilsonian foreign policy that has far outlasted any usefulness it may have had in the cold war.  Nisbet is quite prescient in his prediction that this foreign policy would outlast the fall of Communism.  \\"Take away the Soviet Union as a crucial, and . . . content of some kind will expand to relentlessly fill the time and space left.\\"  [p. 29.]  This describes the motivation for the neocon New World Order perfectly.<BR> <BR>I generally agree with Nisbet and found this working provoking.  I don't quite understand why Nisbet was so hostile to Reagan; although Reagan wasn't the conservative or libertarian some hoped him to be.  For example, Nisbet isn't correct in asserting that Reagan did not want &quot;mandatory&quot; prayer in the public schools, nor do I understand Nisbet's assertion that SDI was &quot;utopian.&quot;	2003-06-24
US	52963744	R1BJMAJUQYV1IH	187062632X	713071079	James Burnham:  Thinkers of Our Time	Books	5	22	22	N	N	A Neglected Thinker of Our Time	Samuel Francis is the premier theoretician of the paleoconservative movement and has for years studied and applied the thought of James Burnham to today's politics.<br /><br />Burnham was unique among conservative thinkers.  Unlike conservatives who based their theories on religion, tradition, or natural law, Burnham was rigorously empirical in his approach to political problems.  Nonetheless, this led him to conservative conclusions.  Heavily influence by the so-called &quot;realist school&quot; of politics (Machiavelli, Michels and Pareto), Burnham sought to discover universal laws of politics and apply them to foreign policy and cultural change.<br /><br />This is an enjoyable introduction to Burnham's thought and a model of organization.  Francis discusses Burnham's overall philosophy and analyzes his thought chronologically, book by book.  Francis also refutes a couple claims widely made about Burnham.  First, he shows that (contrary to Rothbard) Burnham did devote considerable time to objecting to the growth of state power.  Although Burnham was hardly a libertarian or even a minimal government conservative, he was generally supportive of free enterprise and limited government.  Second, contrary to contemporary neoconservatives (and libertarian foreign policy writer Justin Raimondo), Burnham was not a proto-neocon.  Burnham supported an &quot;interventionist&quot; foreign policy to fight the Soviet Union and communism, but his writings in this area can hardly be seen as a blueprint for a neocon New World Order.<br /><br />This book should be supplemented by Kelly's recently published biography of Burnham, JAMES BURNHAM AND THE STRUGGLE FOR THE WORLD, which presents the neocon &quot;take&quot; on Burnham.	2003-05-26
US	52963744	R1C8KBVHBUYDER	1882926935	22817865	American Cause	Books	4	28	32	N	N	Americanism 101	In 1957, Russell Kirk (1918-1994) published this brief synopsis of principles of the \\"American way of life.\\"  It was recently republished and serves as a useful introduction to a conservative view of what is uniquely American.  Kirk hits on many of the principle themes of American life: the influence of Christianity, the American view of government, etc.<br /><br />I tend to agree with most of what Kirk writes here.  I did find a couple things interesting.  First, Kirk's view of Christianity is somewhat \\"humanistic.\\"  For example, Kirk's discussion of the significance of Jesus' death is more or less the \\"example\\" theory of the atonement.  Second, I think Kirk's discussion of US imperialism sugar coats how cynical and brutal American policy with respect to other nations has at times been.<br /><br />This is a new edition of this work, which has been slightly re-edited by Gleaves Whitney as a sort of \\"primer on America, post September 11.\\"  I don't have a problem with this, but the previous edition contained an introduction by John Dos Passos.  Why was this removed?  Also, Mr. Whitney has included a section of \\"recommended readings\\" which recommends several works by neoconservatives.  Considering Dr. Kirk's disavowal of the neoconservative movement, this is regretful.	2003-05-18
US	52963744	R316T2C3K76O59	1882926013	562392957	The Politics of Prudence	Books	4	14	14	N	N	Conservatism 101	Russell Kirk  (1918-1994) was a dominant figure in the post-World War II revival of Conservative thought.  Toward the end of his life, he gave a series of lectures at the Heritage Foundation which form the basis of THE POLITICS OF PRUDENCE.  Like everything Dr. Kirk wrote, the POLITICS OF PRUDENCE is insightful and also a pleasure to read.     The book is in a sense a summing up of Dr. Kirk's though and also a primer on Conservatism.  Kirk describes 10 important events in Conservatism, 10 important Conservative books, 10 important Conservative thinkers, and 10 important conservatives.  He also has chapters on the nature of Conservatism, Conservative foreign policy and the Conservative approach to various issues.    Dr. Kirk's version of Conservatism is somewhat controversial.  According to Kirk, Conservatism is not an ideology, rather it is an \\"attitude\\" reflecting \\"prudence.\\"  Kirk defines ideology as a type of secular religion. For this reason, many libertarians have criticized Kirk for reducing Conservatism to an \\"attitude\\" rather than a coherent ideology that is able to confront statism.  I don't agree with Kirk's definition of \\"ideology,\\" but it is important to note that Kirk supported free enterprise, and limited (and decentralized) government.  Although he wasn't supportive of libertarianism (which he critiques here in a somewhat off the mark essay), he was no apologist for the state.     Two essays stand out here.  In \\"The Neoconservatives: An Endangered Species,\\" he makes the now-famous statement that \\"And not seldom it has seemed as if some eminent Neoconservatives mistook Tel Aviv for the capital of the United States.\\"  In \\"Toward a Prudent Foreign Policy\\" he criticizes the first Gulf War as a \\"war for an oil-can.\\"  No doubt Kirk would have opposed the recent Gulf War (and been denounced as an \\"unpatriotic conservative\\" by the nitwits who now pass as deep thinkers in the conservative movement.     For an even more basic summary of Kirk's thought, see hisbook THE AMERICAN CAUSE, which has recently been republished by ISI.	2003-05-11
US	52963744	R14V8EK8GDPHVQ	1882926765	280211116	James Burnham and the Struggle for the World: A Life	Books	4	36	40	N	N	Conservatism's Forgotten Man	James Burnham (1905-1987) may be the \\"forgotten man\\" of the Conservative movement.  Although he has been the subject of a few monographs and chapters in various books on the conservative movement, his name is not well known in the conservative world.  Many who have heard of Russell Kirk, Whittaker Chambers and William Buckley probably know him only as a writer of apocalyptic anti-Communist books in the 50s and 60s.<BR> <BR>Burnham's life was fascinating, and this book is a well-written, enjoyable biography.  Born to a wealthy railroad executive, Burnham attended Princeton where he studied philosophy and literature.  There he first became associated with Philip Wheelwright (he was also at Princeton at the same time as Cornelius van Til - another Wheelwright student -- but Kelly makes no mention of whether they were acquainted).  He attended Oxford where he met Tolkien and Brand Blanshard.  In the 1930s, Burnham became a Communist (of sorts) and an advisor to Leon Trotsky.  In the late 1930s, Burnham rejected Communism and ultimately became a conservative.  He even worked for the CIA for a few years.<BR> <BR>Burnham began writing for National Review from its inception in 1954 where most of his writing concerned foreign policy and winning the Cold War.  Burnham continued with National Review until he suffered a stroke in 1977, which impaired his short-term memory.<BR> <BR>Burnham is not easy to pigeonhole.  He was neither a member of the Old Right nor the Neocon Right, but shared characteristics of both.  While sympathetic to free enterprise, he wasn't a doctrinaire believer in laissez faire.  He rejected isolationism, but his internationalism was largely limited to anti-Communism.  For example, he opposed US involvement in the Middle East.  <br />Burnham's views on Congressional supremacy, his partial support for Sen. Joseph McCarthy and his views on racial matters would place him, broadly speaking, on the paleconservative spectrum.  Burnham rejected neoconservatism when it first appeared as a distinct ideology in the 70s and his last public appearance, in 1983, was to accept an award from The Ingersoll Foundation, which is associated with a paleoconservative think-tank.  In light of all this, it is a stretch for Mr. Kelly to suggest that Burnham was a proto-neoconservative.	2003-04-29
US	52963744	RR2IHT2HLB3SY	1566634792	443719433	Lives of the Mind: The Use and Abuse of Intelligence from Hegel to Wodehouse	Books	5	24	26	N	N	Enjoyable Essays	Roger Kimball is managing editor of The New Criterion, a neo-conservative journal of arts and letters.  I gather that most of these essays were published as book reviews and essays in that publication.   (Strangely, the book nowhere tells you where the essays come from.)  <br />I enjoyed this book a great deal.  Kimball is an excellent writer and all of the essays are well written and lively.  Because many of the essays are book reviews, the essays actually provide handy introductions to certain thinkers.  The essays on Schopenhauer and Descartes are a good mix of biographical background and philosophical explanation.  There is also an enjoyable introduction to David Stove, an Australian philosopher that Kimball helped introduce to the American public when he edited a collection of his essays a few years back (called AGAINST THE IDOLS OF THE AGE).	2003-04-18
US	52963744	R1BL15EFY08RK1	1883959020	97442329	The Irrepressible Rothbard : The Rothbard-Rockwell Report Essays of Murray N. Rothbard	Books	5	10	10	N	N	Typical Rothbard	As Ive said before, Murray Rothbard was a historian, cultural critic, economist and social theoretician, and political strategist.  Until his death, Murray commented vigorously on the cultural affairs of the day in the Rothbard-Rockwell Report.  These articles are collected in this outstanding work.  <br />Actually, I use the phrase cultural affairs broadly since these articles concern history, political strategy, movie reviews and more.  With Rotbard you dont get canned bromides like some other would-be deep thinkers, but an exciting and informed opinion on topic after topic.  As just one example, consider the war against the Serbs.  Leftists from all quarters (Hitchens, Lerner, etc.) couldnt wait to go to war against the Serbs in defense of the so-called Bosnian nation.  Murray points out that there never was Bosnian nation (or even a Yugoslavian nation for that matter.)  Likewise, the left  contrary to its supposed representatives -- has never really been in favor of peace; after all Barnes derided the pro war pacifists of his day.  Murray even points out the similarities of the Bosnian Moslems to the old Bogomil heretics of that area (humorously pointing out that the Bogomils were what Ayn Rand falsely considered all Christians to be.)  <br />At the same time Rothbard was writing these essays, he was writing monthly articles on economics in The Free Market newsletter.  Those articles are gathered in MAKING ECONOMIC SENSE.  If years from now someone asks me what really happened in the 80s and 90s, Ill direct them to these two books.	2003-04-18
US	52963744	R2FN05D80ZTJ4L	0826214177	272083927	Multiculturalism and the Politics of Guilt: Towards a Secular Theocracy	Books	5	42	44	N	N	Brilliant	In light of the depraved nature of American culture, it's easy for any second-hander to catalog a bunch of disparate events and ideas and package them with a littany of canned-bromides about \\"multiculturalism\\" and \\"political correctness.\\"  (As an example, I just read a story the other day about \\"ethnomathematics.\\")  On the other hand, it takes a scholar to make sense of the intellectual trends that are dominating the Western world.<br />Fortunately, the paleoconservative movement has such a scholar in Dr. Paul Gottfried.  Prof. Gottfried focuses on trends such as \\"diversity,\\" \\"multiculturalism,\\" and \\"sensitivity\\" showing that there is a theology behind them.  The Christian view of sin and redemption is replaced by a secular counterpart of \\"insensitivity\\" and psychological manipulation.  Based on Prof. Gottfried's approach, the desire of the left (old left and neocon \\"right\\") becomes understandable.  American foreign policy (which was historically based on the idea of American interest, however misguided at times) is now focused on fighting \\"intolerance.\\"  The love affair of the left with immigration likewise becomes understandable.  What better way to apologize for your nation's alleged sins then slowly destroying your culture through a change in the population?  This fact isn't lost on European conservatives, who - as Prof. Gottfried notes - realize that these new voters aren't likely to vote conservative.<br />For some reason, the Jewish holocaust takes center stage in this new religion, in which both liberals and their alleged opponents seeks to draw lessons from this event.  That nearly three million Poles died at the hands of the Nazis is ignored.  Likewise, Stalin's murder of millions of Ukrainians in the name of egalitarianism gets short shift.  Whereas people are put in jail for denying the Jewish holocaust, even mainstream publishers will print books downplaying Stalin's evils.<br />Prof. Gottfried breaks from standard neoconservative and paleoconservative analysis by showing that although the \\"sensitizing\\" may be carried out by the managerial class, it appears to have substantial public support.  The multicultural agenda has majority support in the United Kingdom, and perhaps close to that in the United States.<br />This work follows upon Prof. Gottfried's AFTER LIBERALISM, which is also highly recommended.analysis by showing that although the \\"sensitizing\\" may be carried out by the managerial class, it appears to have substantial public support.  The multicultural agenda has majority support in the United Kingdom, and perhaps close to that in the United States. <br />This work follows upon Prof. Gottfried's AFTER LIBERALISM, which is also highly recommended.	2003-04-05
US	52963744	R16RXLR9NZJFW7	0945466285	634426668	An Introduction to Economic Reasoning	Books	5	15	16	N	N	Basic Economics Made Easy	AN INTRODUCTION TO ECONOMIC REASONING is probably the first book you want to read if you are planning on studying economics.  Although this work is called an introduction to \\"economic reasoning,\\" it is perhaps more accurately considered an introduction to economics as such.<br />This book is quite basic, and could be profitably used by high school students or anyone without a knowledge of economics.  It hits many of the basic topics in economics, such as marginal utility, supply and demand, and money.  It is from the Austrian perspective, so it could save a high schooler from years of unlearning.  The only drawback is that although it contains many useful study questions, it doesn't include the answers (nor is there, from what I can tell, a teacher's guide).<br />Dr. David Gordon is associated with the Ludwig von Mises Institute, the nation's premier free enterprise think tank.  The Institute has published another work - ECONOMICS FOR REAL PEOPLE by Gene Callahan - that is more advanced and would make an excellent follow-up work.	2003-03-29
US	52963744	R38BIBIGCJMCZA	0822601796	771453833	With Charity Toward None: An Analysis of Ayn Rand's Philosophy	Books	3	7	11	N	N	Dated	In 1971, professor of philosophy William O'Neill published the first book-length critique of Ayn Rand's philosophy, known as Objectivism.  (Albert Ellis's 1968, IS OBJECTIVISM A RELIGION?, was a discussion of Rand and psychology, from what I recall.)  This book isn't bad, but it has been superseded as a critique of Objectivism by Robbins's work (ANSWER TO AYN RAND, which has been updated as WITHOUT A PRAYER) and Scott Ryan's recently released OBJECTIVISM AND THE CORRUPTION OF RATIONALITY.<br />O'Neill's discussion of Rand's thought is informative and more or less accurate.  On the other hand, he doesn't make enough of an effort to integrate Rand's thought into a coherent whole (granted, this isn't easy to do).  So I don't think that someone new to Ayn Rand would understand why Rand has influenced so many people.  Yet O'Neill does do a good job at bringing to light of some of the contradictions in Rand's work.  For example, Rand preached that compromise was evil; yet she supported candidates for president who were anything but Objectivists.  However, some of the alleged contradictions Prof. O'Neill finds would disappear if he had used a bit more \\"charity\\" in interpreting Rand.<br />If you want to read a sympathetic integration of Rand's thought, I recommend Chris Sciabarra's AYN RAND: THE RUSSIAN RADICAL.	2003-03-14
US	52963744	R21KVU8WSNL0Q1	0452010519	851977825	The Ayn Rand Lexicon: Objectivism from A to Z (Ayn Rand Library)	Books	3	13	24	N	N	An Objectivist Lexicon	THE AYN RAND LEXICON is an alphabetically organized collection of excerpts from the writings of Ayn Rand and other Objectivists.  A concept or topic is listed, and excerpts from Objectivist writings follow.  For example, the entry \\"Renaissance\\" contains three paragraphs from Ayn Rand, one from Leonard Peikoff, and a multiple paragraph entry from an article in \\"The Objectivist\\" by Mary Ann Sures.<br />According to the editor, Harry Binswanger, Rand approved of the idea for the LEXICON and was consulted during the early stages of production.  (Rand died in 1982 and this work came out in 1986.)  Needless to say, one's opinion of this work will in large part depend on one's view of Rand and Objectivism.<br />On the positive side, this is a useful way to look up what Rand believed on a variety of topics.  Her writing was crisp and at times insightful, and at other times simplistic and ill informed.  Take the above section on \\"Renaissance.\\"  Rand thought the Renaissance represented the rebirth of reason and Aristotelianism, but there is no indication that Rand studied this period of history.  These excerpts (and her writings in general) show no understanding that the Renaissance represented the rebirth of Platonism.  In fact, I'm not aware of a single Renaissance figure that Rand ever discussed in any detail.<br />As I stated, THE AYN RAND LEXICON contains excerpts from Rand and her associates.  Following Rand, the most entries are Peikoff's with a smattering of others.  I'd say Rand makes up about 80% to 85% of the book.  Most of the additional entries are those that were published under Rand's auspices, so I assume they represent \\"official Objectivism.\\"  On other hand, when Rand broke with the Brandens in 1968, she said that their writings published prior to the break were consistent with Objectivism.  Why have none of these writings been included?  <br />A good compliment to this work is THE AYN RAND READER, published in 1999.  The excerpts are much lengthier and contain no writings from second-handers.  If you want to know what a \\"second-hander\\" is, check the LEXICON and \\"check the premises\\" of the Official Objectivist movement.	2003-03-09
US	52963744	R2WXS7200IK07P	081269158X	853704402	The Ideas of Ayn Rand	Books	3	3	12	N	N	Comprehensive, But Not Deep	In recent years, we have witnessed what has aptly been called a \\"Renaissance\\" in Ayn Rand scholarship. In 1995, Chris Sciabarra came out with AYN RAND: THE RUSSIAN RADICAL which (although controversial) placed Ayn Rand in the context of the history of philosophy and filled in a few gaps in her biography as well. After that work, the Ayn Rand Institute published lengthy collections of her diaries and letters (although I'd like to see the originals). In 1999, the Journal of Ayn Rand Studies began publishing, which gives Rand's ideas serious attention. Finally, we recently saw the publication of Scott Ryan's critical OBJECTIVISM AND THE CORRUPTION OF RATIONALITY, which surpasses all previous criticism of Rand.    In light of this high quality work and the increase in primary sources available, one might expect that a scholar would come out with a concise 150-200 page book providing a solid and up-to-date overview of Rand's work, dealing with all the major areas of her thought. Unfortunately, such a book is lacking.    The above digression brings me to Ron Merrill's THE IDEAS OF AYN RAND, published in 1991 and therefore before the \\"Renaissance.\\" There are some good things about this work. First, it is comprehensive. Mr. Merrill provides the reader with an overview of Rand's life, the plots of her novels, an introduction to her philosophy, and her place within the conservative and libertarian traditions. Second, there are a few interesting observations about the influence of Nietzsche on Rand and also some Jewish imagery in Rand's novels. Third, Mr. Merrill appreciates Rand and lets the reader understand why many people are so absorbed by her ideas. Fourth, the discussion of the novels is extensive. Fifth, the work includes a discussion of the Objectivist \\"movement.\\"    On the other hand, as a guide to Rand's philosophy it leaves a lot to be desired. As an example, the discussion of axioms (so central to Rand) is given 4 lines. However, the \\"analytic-synthetic dichotomy\\"is given over a page. And it is presented exclusively in the context of Peikoff's misleading article of the same name. In any event, I don't see how Mr. Merrill's pointing out that W. V. O. (\\"I espouse a more thorough pragmatism\\") Quine also objected to the \\"analytic-synthetic dichotomy\\" helps his case that this concept is flawed [p. 170, n. 8]. (For a defense of how - contrary to Peikoff - a priori knowledge provides knowledge of \\"facts of experience,\\" see Brand Blanshard, REASON & ANALYSIS, pp. 249-307, esp. pp. 303-04.)     This book should be read in conjunction with other books on Rand, including Tibor Machan's work, AYN RAND and Chris Sciabarra's AYN RAND: THE RUSSIAN RADICAL.	2003-03-04
US	52963744	ROFPVEAII781K	0595267335	702669398	Objectivism and the Corruption of Rationality: A Critique of Ayn Rand's Epistemology	Books	5	65	115	N	N	The Answer to Ayn Rand	Ayn Rand claimed to be the most rational of thinkers.  Her followers are more explicit: Ayn Rand (they love to use both names for some reason) provided a stunningly original explanation and defense of human reason.  Yet is her philosophy -- called \\"Objectivism\\" -- in fact rational?  Is it even original?  In OBJECTIVISM AND THE CORRUPTION OF RATIONALISTY Scott Ryan discusses Objectivism, its claims, and its place in the history of philosophy.      By way of background, Mr. Ryan's primary intellectual debts are to Spinoza and Brand Blanshard.  He describes his philosophy as \\"rational objective idealism.\\"  Mr. Ryan's focus here is Rand's epistemology; however, he discusses her ethics in detail (and has a few well-directed barbs against her politics and aesthetics).    Mr. Ryan's approach is comprehensive.  He takes a position of Rand's, explains it, discusses its place within the history of philosophy, and critiques it.  The critique is in the spirit of Blanshard (although he doesn't follow Blanshard uncritically). Even if one doesn't agree with Mr. Ryan's rationalism, one must admit that he has done yeoman's work in explaining Objectivism and putting it in historical context.  Mr. Ryan says that his critique can be appreciated by anyone interested in Rand, regardless of philosophical orientation, and he is certainly correct.    This book is 400 pages long, so I'll discuss only a couple of topics Mr. Ryan hits on.  Take the \\"problem of universals.\\"  Rand proposed her solution in INTRODUCTION TO OBJECTIVISM EPISTEMOLOGY.  Her theory of measurement-omission is considered her greatest achievement by her followers.  Rand starts by comparing her view to other schools, rejecting both nominalism and realism.  However, as Mr. Ryan shows, the problem of universals falls within metaphysics, not epistemology.  Not only that, but Rand's solution is really a form of moderate nominalism.  Indeed, it isn't particularly original since a similar approach was advocated some years beforeby Roy Wood Sellars (although there is no proof that Rand read Sellars).      As another example, consider the validity of the senses.  Rand attempted to refute skepticism by her axiom that \\"existence exists.\\"  Likewise, one-time follower Nathaniel Branden argues that skeptics use the \\"stolen concept\\": they attack the possibility of knowledge, but implicitly concede that something must be known when uttering any claim advocating skepticism.  Again, this isn't particularly original or profound.  (Ryle employed a version of the stolen concept argument years before Branden when noted \\"not all coins of the realm can be false.\\")  Yes, skepticism is self-refuting.  But the fact that we have some knowledge doesn't prove that the senses are generally reliable, or tell us how to distinguish true from false beliefs.    What is most impressive is Mr. Ryan's mastery of the relevant literature.  Rand wasn't particularly well read in philosophy, and perhaps she can be excused for failing to develop her arguments with sufficient rigor.  So Mr. Ryan supplements his critique of Rand's views with refinements offered by Leonard Peikoff, Alan Gotthelf, and David Kelley.  Sometimes they follow and elaborate on Rand, other times they take surprisingly different approaches.    Scott Ryan has provided the best critique of Ayn Rand in print.  For a discussion of Rand's philosophy from a more sympathetic perspective, see Chris Sciabarra's AYN RAND: THE RUSSIAN RADICAL.	2003-02-22
US	52963744	R16ZT2FBSWY2AA	0836207661	55061128	The Ultimate Foundation of Economic Science: An Essay on Method (The Institute for Humane Studies Series in Economic Theory) (Studies in economic theory)	Books	5	26	26	N	N	Von Mises The Rationalist	Ludwig von Mises published his first book in 1912 (\\"Theory of Money and Credit\\") and his final book -  \\"The Ultimate Foundation of Economic Science\\" - in 1962 (although he continued to write articles until near the end of his incredibly productive life).<br />In \\"The Ultimate Foundation\\", von Mises returns to one of his central concerns: the foundation of economic theories.  According to von Mises, the principles of economic thought are \\"a priori.\\"  In fact, they are a \\"subset\\" of more basic principles of human action.  Von Mises called the study of human action \\"praxiology.\\"  According to Mises, the a priori categories \\"are the mental equipment by dint of which man is able to think and to experience and thus to acquire knowledge.\\" [p. 18.]  It is these categories which provide order and regularity to man's understanding.   The category of human action is: \\"Man acts because he is dissatisfied with the state of affairs as it prevails in the absence of his intervention.\\"  [p. 3.]  Further axioms follow logically from this axiom.  [p. 45.]  The principles of economics are therefore deductive.  On the other hand, the principles of the physical sciences are inductive.  The error of positivism is to apply the principles of the physical sciences to economics, where they are not applicable.  Economics is closer to mathematics than it is to chemistry.<br />It's hard to summarize this book.  Von Mises deals with a large number of topics in a relatively small number of pages.  These include evolution, Marxism, theism, the use of statistics, and methodological individualism.  Yet what shines through is von Mises' love of economics and his belief that the teachings of economics - which is to say free enterprise - is the key to increasing man's standard of living and promoting social cooperation.<br />Interestingly, von Hayek - Mises' best known student -- also returned to methodology in his final book, &quot;The Fatal Conceit.&quot;  While von Mises remained a rationalist untilthe end, Hayek drifted toward a more empirical approach to social and economic thought.  It would make an interesting study to compare these two works.  Joseph Salerno touches on some of these points in his essay &quot;Mises as Social Rationalist&quot; in Herbener, ed., &quot;The Meaning of Ludwig von Mises.&quot;	2003-02-21
US	52963744	R3KBPRBBBK4YBY	0870009966	875589909	The Historical Setting of the Austrian School of Economics	Books	5	9	9	N	N	The Origins of the Austrian School	This essay by Ludwig von Mises was published in 1969.  It is an informative and opinionated overview of the historical background behind the Austrian School of Economics.  The Austrian School began in the 1870s with the pioneering work of the Austrian Carl Menger.  The School was focused in Vienna, which at the time was the head of the \\"multi-cultural\\" Austro-Hungarian Empire. (I imagine it wouldn't qualify as multi-cultural in the eyes of today's leftists because of its allegiance was to the crown and Christianity, rather than PC ideology).  Although its focus was in Austria, there were significant followers in Germany, as well as some Czechs.<br />The Austrian School was on the side of liberalism (which at that time meant less government) and its central opponents were members of the German Historical School, which supported statist economic policies and was allied with the Prussian monarchy.  A good part of this essay is focused on this dispute.<br />The philosophical underpinning of the School was the rationalist philosophy of Kant and Leibniz, with the influence of philosophers such as Brenanto (who influenced Husserl). <br />Certainly Ludwig von Mises was the right man to write this essay.  He was acquainted with Menger and was a student of Bohm-Bawerk.  He was involved in the controversies that this work addresses.  Von Mises wrote it near the end of his incredibly productive life, and I found interesting the pessimism that pervades the work.	2003-01-30
US	52963744	R32B22LCCFJDI8	0945466358	713819379	Economics for Real People: An Introduction to the Austrian School	Books	5	122	128	N	N	Economics for You and Me	The Austrian School is the most consistently free enterprise school of economic thought.  Its most outstanding representative was Ludwig von Mises and its leading thinker in recent memory was Murray Rothbard.  Both von Mises and Rothbard wrote substantial treatises on economics.  However, there haven't been many introductory works.  (Hazlitt's Economics in One Lesson focuses more on government intervention than prices, the evenly rotating economy and capital theory.)<br />Gene Callahan has remedied that situation with this excellent introductory work.  Written in the style of Rothbard, Callahan provides a primer on methodology, economic theory, and a critique of government intervention. The examples are always vivid and at times humorous.<br />After finishing this book, the reader should tackle Rothbard's Man, Economy and State.  Then he should try von Mises's Human Action.  Human Action isn't easy, but it will present the reader with the acedmic and theoretical rigor of the Austrian school's greatest exponent.  For an introductory work that is more basic that Callahan's, David Gordon's An Introduction to Economic Reasoning is excellent.	2003-01-28
US	52963744	R3W4188F4CH1UO	0945466129	455209315	The Meaning of Ludwig Von Mises: Contributions in Economics, Sociology, Epistemology, and Political Philosophy (Studies in Austrian Economics Series)	Books	5	8	8	N	N	The Meaning of Greatness	A while ago I reviewed Israel Kirzner's excellent introduction to von Mises published by ISI (\\"Ludwig von Mises\\").    That work focused mostly on Mises's economic thought.  If you would like to get an appreciation of the full scope of Mises's thinking, including political philosophy and sociology, this is a good place to start.<br />\\"The Meaning of Ludwig von Mises\\" contains eleven essays, hitting on all the key areas of Mises's thought.  David Gordon's essay \\"Ludwig von Mises and the Philosophy of History\\" is excellent.  If the basis of your sociological thought is methodological individualism, then any attempt to come up with \\"laws of history\\" as taught by the likes of Spengler and Toynbee is futile.  Dr. Gordon then shows that Marxism is equally vulnerable.  Nonetheless, I think Dr. Gordon's analysis is too sweeping.  He concedes that Spengler and Toynbee made \\"insights.\\"  In fact, Dr. Gordon ends this essay by praising von Mises's suggestion that nationalism is largely explainable by economic interventionism.  Hence there seem to be certain \\"patterns\\" in history, even if one doesn't wish to call them laws.<br />The essay I found most enjoyable was Leland Yeager's discussion of utilitarianism.  Von Mises - in spite of his Kantian epistemology - was an advocate of utilitarianism.  Rothbard broke with his mentor in this area, making sweeping statements about what a utilitarian can and cannot logically believe.  Prof Yeager takes issue with Rothbard's understanding of utilitarianism and the theory of rights derivable from it.  In particular, he makes some good arguments against Rothbard's view that blackmail should be legal.  For example, according to Rothbard, Mr. A is free to tell Mr. B that he will spread lies about B's business unless B pays A money.  Rothbard's conception of rights was excessively limited to property and contracts to transfer title to property.  (For what it's worth, I put some comments about Rothbard's theory of rights in my review of \\"The Ethics of Liberty\\".)	2003-01-26
US	52963744	R3PSEKLJS88MNY	094546620X	802528916	Economic Science and the Austrian Method	Books	4	36	38	N	N	Austrian Methodology Defended	Hans-Hermann Hoppe (1949-  ) is a philosopher and economist writing in the \\"classical\\" Austrian tradition, which is to say in the tradition of Mises and Rothbard.  He is also one of the most creative thinkers in that tradition.   (His work, Democracy: The God that Failed, is a brilliant extension of Austrian thought into the realm of politics.)<BR> <BR>This little work (which is a collection of some stuff previously printed) provides a good introduction to and defense of Austrian methodology.  The question is this: what is the status of the laws and principles of economics?  Are principles such as \\"the law of marginal utility\\" everywhere and on all occasions true, or are they empirical generalizations subject to falsification?  Mises - writing in the tradition of Kant and Leibniz - argued that the principles of economics are a priori.  Misesian methodology therefore falls within the Kantian and rationalist tradition.  (Hoppe rejects the interpretation of Kant given by Rand as \\"arrogant ignorance.)  Economics, according to Mises, is closer to disciplines such as logic and mathematics than it is to the natural sciences.  In his defense of the Austrian method, Prof. Hoppe provides brief but useful critiques of empiricism, historicism, and relativism.  <br />Mises's central works in this area are Human Action, Epistemological Problems of Economics, Theory and History, and The Ultimate Foundation of Economic Science.	2003-01-25
US	52963744	R2Z6YO6Z73GF30	1883959020	97442329	The Irrepressible Rothbard : The Rothbard-Rockwell Report Essays of Murray N. Rothbard	Books	5	3	3	N	N	The Hidden History of Our Times	As I've said before, Murray Rothbard was a historian, cultural critic, economist, social theoretician, and political strategist. Until his death, Murray commented vigorously on the cultural affairs of the day in the Rothbard-Rockwell Report. These articles are collected in this outstanding work. <br />Actually, I use the phrase \\"cultural affairs\\" broadly since these articles concern history, political strategy, movie reviews and more. With Rotbard you don't get \\"canned bromides\\" like some other would-be \\"deep thinkers,\\" but an exciting and informed opinion on topic after topic. As just one example, consider the war against the Serbs. Leftists from all quarters (Hitchens, Lerner, etc.) couldn't wait to go to war against the Serbs in defense of the so-called Bosnian nation. Murray points out that there never was Bosnian nation (or even a Yugoslavian nation for that matter.) Likewise, the left - contrary to its supposed representatives -- has never really been in favor of peace; after all Barnes derided the \\"pro war pacifists\\" of his day. Murray even points out the similarities of the Bosnian \\"Moslems\\" to the old Bogomil heretics of that area (humorously pointing out that the Bogomils were what Ayn Rand falsely considered all Christians to be.) <br />As another example, Rothbard's article on Bush I's war against Iraq could have been written today.<br />At the same time Rothbard was writing these essays, he was writing monthly articles on economics in The Free Market newsletter. Those articles are gathered in MAKING ECONOMIC SENSE. If years from now someone asks me what \\"really\\" happened in the 80s and 90s, I'll direct them to these two books. I guess you could say they constitute \\"the hidden history of our times.\\"	2003-01-24
US	52963744	RF42YXJRE5RA	0452011175	806327865	The Ominous Parallels: The End of Freedom in America	Books	2	25	40	N	N	From Konigsberg to Amerika	Leonard Peikoff (Ayn Rand's self-proclaimed \\"intellectual heir\\") published this work in 1982 declaring that there were \\"ominous parallels\\" between Germany's culture in the Weimar years and American culture in the twentieth century.     According to Peikoff, the cause of Germany's descent into irrationalism was ideas, more specifically the philosophical ideas of various anti-Aristotelians throughout history.  Chief among these was Germany's greatest philosophy Immanuel Kant.  Kant laid the foundations for Germany's acceptance of Nazi theories by advocating an epistemology of irrationalism and an ethics of self-sacrifice.  Kant's philosophy has penetrated American culture through, among others, pragmatists such as James and Dewey.      This book isn't entirely bad and I think Peikoff may be on to something in his discussion of the irrationalism that plagued Germany in the Weimar years. But like many such works it is given to simplification and exaggeration.  I certainly don't deny that \\"ideas have consequences\\" but how ideas filter down and ultimately affect the behavior of individuals is more complex.  Why, for example, didn't the holocaust happen in England?  Starting with Humean skepticism, proceeding to Hegelian-influenced idealism, and winding up with analytical philosophy early in the twentieth century, England should have been in worse shape than Germany.    Peikoff's selective and misleading use of facts is even more problematic.  He bombards the reader with endless names and quotes leaving the impression that his thesis must be correct if so many important thinkers sounded as irrational as the Nazis.  The problem here is what Peikoff leaves out.  For example, he describes the \\"avant-garde\\" theology of \\"Weimar modernists\\" listing Emil Brunner, Karl Barth, Paul Tillich and Martin Buber.  None of these thinkers was a Nazi and, in fact, only Tillich was German.  And while these theologians may have been \\"avant-garde\\" it isn't correct to say that they all rejectednatural theology: Brunner in fact quarreled with Barth over this issue.  When the facts don't fit Peikoff's interpretation he leaves them out.  Reading his discussion of Augustine (a frequent whipping boy of Objectivists) you wouldn't have a clue that Augustine planned on compiling a multi-volume work collecting the ancient world's learning on such subjects as geometry.    Apart from these larger methodological concerns, there is also the issue of Peikoff's interpretation of Kant.  While Kant's thought is subject to various interpretations, it's safe to say that Peikoff's reading of Kant's epistemology is seriously skewed.  Even worse, Peikoff's interpretation of Kant's ethics is a complete farrago and a transparent attempt to justify Rand's interpretation of Kant through the use of selective quotations.  And if Kant's philosophy was so clearly congenial to the Nazi point of view, why can't Peikoff find more than one or two Nazis actually praising Kant?    As others have mentioned, Peikoff is not to be trusted as an intellectual historian.  For example, as one of his sources on Hitler, he cites the work of Hermann Rauschning, THE VOICE OF DESTRUCTION.  Raushchning was a former National Socialist Senate President of Danzig.  This work purports to be a collection of statements by Hitler at his nihilistic best.  However, its authenticity is widely disputed.  Hitler's definitive biographer Ian Kershaw doesn't use of the Rauschning material.  [See Kershaw, HITLER, vol 1, p. xiv.]  Richard Steigmann-Gall calls the material \\"highly questionable\\" and says it shouldn't be used.  [THE HOLY REICH, p. 29.]  (Objectivists Craig Biddle and Andrew Bernstein use Peikoff's book uncritically on this point.)  As a final example (of which there are too many to mention), Thomas Aquinas wasn't responsible for the reintroduction of Aristotle in the Middle Ages.  Aquinas' teacher Albertus Magnus, among others, was an Aristotelian.	2003-01-13
US	52963744	R3BJNG8HUNW2UO	0813210836	218549902	The Making of Europe: An Introduction to the History of European Unity (Worlds of Christopher Dawson)	Books	5	34	36	N	N	The Making of the West	Catholic University Press of America is coming out with the Works of Christopher Dawson.  To my mind, this is one of the most important publishing events in recent memory.  In addition, these works are reset and contain solid introductions by experts in the field.  This is third in the series (following Progress and Religion; and Medieval Essays).  <br />The Making of Europe: An Introduction to the History of European Unity is an important book, which came out in 1932.  Dawson highlights the central factors and contributions in the formation of European unity - the Roman Empire, Classical Culture, Christianity, the Barbarians, the Byzantines and Islam.  Although Dawson was a Catholic, the book is balanced and can be enjoyed by just about anyone.   I liked in particular the fair overview of Islam.  It's fashionable to say that history books of the past ignored the contributions of other culture and only contemporary (and leftist) historians rescued us from the evils of \\"eurocentrism\\" and \\"ethnocentrism.\\"  This is silly, as anyone who has read history books from the past knows.   (In addition, take for example the success of books in the nineteenth century such as Salambo by Flaubert, or the exaggerated claims of Masons of the contributions of Egyptians, which rival the \\"Black Athena\\" crowd).<br />In particular, I enjoyed Alexander Murray's introductory essay, which updates some of Dawson's arguments in light of current scholarship and also places this work within his oeuvre.	2003-01-05
US	52963744	R2H6VJ6729M174	0802839258	2020643	1: A Scientific Theology: Nature	Books	3	25	30	N	N	Theology and Science	Alister McGrath is a moderately conservative Anglican theologian who has written a large number of works on Christian theology.  He is also trained in the physical sciences as well (he is also a real smart guy, as he loves to tell you in the preface).  A SCIENTIFIC THEOLOGY: NATURE is the first volume of a three-volume work which relates theology to the natural sciences.  It is explicitly designed to follow the insights of the neo-Barthian theologian, Thomas Torrance.<br />I can't say I didn't learn a fair amount from this work.  There are many interesting background studies on various topics.  It is fascinating to read how Plato, Aristotle, the Romantics and the post-Modernists define nature.  The same is true with the doctrine of creation, in which we learn that the doctrine of creation out of nothing isn't a part of the Jewish heritage as is often suggested.<br />McGrath also makes a number of interesting observations.  For example, there is an interesting discussion what is meant by the term \\"nature.\\"   Many things that we consider \\"natural,\\" such as nature parks, are a result of considerable human control.  After all, many would have been destroyed long ago by fire if they were permitted run their \\"natural\\" course.  Nature must in some sense then be a \\"mediated\\" and \\"socially constructed\\" concept.  For this reason, a Christian cannot accept it as a neutral starting point for understanding the sciences.<br />So this book contains lots of background studies with occasional analysis by McGrath.  I guess that's my problem with this book.  I'm at a loss to see how this approach constitutes a \\"sustained engagement\\" of the relationship between science and theology as it's billed.  If the next two volumes follow this approach, the work will be one large introduction.  There's nothing wrong with that, but we have seen numerous introductory works in this field lately.  Volume 2 is out now, so I'll let you know after I finish it.	2003-01-04
US	52963744	R2UOP5V9YEUFLV	0945466188	589540426	Making Economic Sense	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Rothbard Makes Sense	From 1982 to his death in 1995, Murray Rothbard wrote a monthly column for the Ludwig von Mises Institute's newsletter, The Free Market.  In these columns - which are collected here - Rothbard commented on the economic affairs and policies of the day.  While these pieces generally use certain current events as the starting point, Rothbard used these events as a springboard to discuss Austrian economics.  Taken as a whole, they provide an excellent introduction to economics from the Austrian school.<br />This book also contains a few unpublished pieces.  The best is Rothbard's analysis of the 1994 elections.  As usual, Rothbard gets to the crux of the issues involved, dealing with the characters whose actions (often behind the scenes) were decisive.  Reading this piece reminded me of how much we lost in Murray's death - not just a brilliant theoretician, but a man whose comments on the events of the day were a constant source of illumination.  Make sure you also get THE IRREPRESABLE ROTHBARD, his collection of essays from the Rothbard-Rockwell report.	2003-01-02
US	52963744	R64TDGLQ5R9HJ	0813209145	299228979	Christianity and European Culture: Selections from the Work of Christopher Dawson (Worlds of Christopher Dawson)	Books	5	24	24	N	N	Christianity and Culture Explained	Christopher Dawson (1889-1870) was a Roman Catholic author and historian.  He, along with a number of fellow coverts, created a Renaissance of English Catholic scholarship.<br />This book contains the full text of Dawson's 1960 work, \\"The Historic Reality of Christian Culture,\\" as well as several essays touching on the general theme of Christianity and European culture.  \\"The Historic Reality of Christian Culture\\" is an important work explaining why one can speak of a Christian culture.  As Dawson notes, no one would describe Arabic culture without a mention of Islam, but when it comes to Europe, culture is discussed as if Christianity wasn't a significant factor.<br />The essays in this work are excellent.  In particular, I liked the essay \\"The Classical Tradition and Christianity.\\"  The merging of Christianity and Classical Culture was one of the most momentous facts in world history. In \\"The Secularization of Western Culture,\\" Dawson draws attention to the neglected figure of Tommaso Campanella, whom he regards as the forerunner of modern revolutionary socialism.<br />There is one other collection of essays by Dawson that I'm aware of: DYNAMICS OF WORLD HISTORY.  It is a bit lengthier and contains some of the same essays, as well as essays on a broader range of topics.  In addition, after this work was published, Catholic University Press started publishing Dawson's Collected Works.	2002-12-22
US	52963744	R140I8R67FYKDE	0940931389	430378831	An Introduction to Christian Philosophy	Books	4	24	26	N	N	Excellent Introduction to Gordon Clark	Like many people, my first introduction to Gordon Clark (1902-1985) came in reading John Robbins' ANSWER TO AYN RAND (which was revised by Robbins a few years ago as WITHOUT A PRAYER).  Robbins used Clark's philosophy to mount an attack on Objectivism, which varied from the insightful to the ill informed.<br />Gordon Clark was a Calvinist philosopher and theologian.  He wrote numerous books, including RELIGION, REASON AND REVELATION, one of the classics of twentieth century apologetics.  He may be best known today for his dispute with fellow Calvinist apologist Cornelius Van Til.  In 1966 he gave three lectures at Wheaton College, which form AN INTRODUCTION TO CHRISTIAN PHILOSOPHY.<br />This work serves as an excellent introduction to Clark's philosophy and apologetics.  In Part I, Clark attacks secular thought, arguing that it is incapable of providing knowledge or a coherent ethics or politics.  In Part II, Clark develops his Calvinist alternative to secularism, which he later called &quot;rational spiritualism.&quot;  In Part III, Clark applies his apologetics to various issues.<br />According to Clark, all systems of thought (religious or secular) rest on an axiom or a series of axioms.  These axioms cannot - strictly speaking - be proved, they can only be tested.  Clark's test is: &quot;Does revelation make knowledge possible.  Does revelation establish values and ethical norms?  Does revelation give a theory of politics?  And are these results consistent with each other?&quot;  [p. 59.]  I don't find this particularly persuasive.  While Clark's attack on secularism is quite profound, his positive case for Christianity is considerably less persuasive.  In this respect, Van Til strikes me as the more original apologist.  (See Bahnsen, ed., VAN TIL'S APOLOGETICS for Van Til's critique of Clark.)<br />The most curious aspect of Clark's thought his attack on empirical knowledge and science.  Clark didn't simply attack empiricism and scienticism (which are incompatible with a personal theism) but the ability of science to discover laws and the senses to discover truth.  So far as I can tell, Clark never set forth a Scriptural argument for his skepticism.  In fact - contrary to Clark - the Bible seems to assume that the senses provide knowledge of religious and non-religious truth.  (See Frame, THE DOCTRINE OF THE KNOWLEDGE OF GOD, pages 332 to  335.)	2002-12-22
US	52963744	R34L9DCKXRY6TN	0802812805	965596427	Gospel of the Kingdom: Scriptural Studies in the Kingdom of God	Books	4	48	49	N	N	Excellent	In the Gospel of Mark - perhaps the earliest Gospel - the first words of Jesus reported are the following: \\"The time is fulfilled, and the kingdom of God is at hand.\\"  The concept of the Kingdom of God (or the \\"Kingdom of Heaven,\\" Matthew's circumlocution) is central to the New Testament.  But if you asked the average Christian what the central teachings of the New Testament are, I wonder if \\"the Kingdom of God\\" would be one of the responses.<br />One of the most important Evangelical writers on this topic was the late George Eldon Ladd, long-time professor of New Testament at Fuller Theological Seminary.  Perhaps more than any writer, it was Ladd who was instrumental in moving evangelical Protestantism in the US away from dispensationalism to historic premillenialism.<br />This little work contains a number of addresses that Ladd gave in the late 1950s on the Kingdom of God in the Bible.  He discusses the Kingdom in terms of the parables, the millennium, Israel, and the Church, among other topics.  I was particularly impressed with the discussion of the demands of the Kingdom on the life of the believer.  It is quite a contrast from much of the touchy-feely Christianity that gets preached today.	2002-12-13
US	52963744	R1LTQ8KCP41MCM	0910884021	486834936	Planning for freedom, and twelve other essays and addresses	Books	5	14	16	N	N	Brilliant	Ludwig von Mises (1881-1973) was the outstanding economist and social thinker of the twentieth century. He wrote three of the century's most important works: THE THEORY OF MONEY AND CREDIT; SOCIALISM; and HUMAN ACTION.  In these books he brilliantly set forth an &quot;Austrian&quot; analysis of free enterprise.  He didn't merely refute socialist schemes, but showed the complete unworkability of socialism.<br />While we often think of von Mises as the brilliant theoretician, he also wrote several popular works and gave many addresses to groups.  PLANNING FOR FREEDOM contains seventeen essays and addresses.  Taken as a whole, these works provide an excellent summary of free market principles and von Mises' thought.  <BR>The title address dates from 1945.  Von Mises points out that many advocate a \\"third way\\" in between socialism and capitalism.  The goal of such an economy is \\"planning for freedom.\\"  However, it is one of the central insights of Austrian economics that a capitalist economy is a planned economy.  In a free economy, the consumers decide what products are to be introduced and where new investments will take place.  This is coordinated through the much-hated system of profit and loss.  Socialism and other forms of economic intervention interfere with the price system, generating economic uncertainty.  Such systems create - as von Mises noted in another work - \\"planned chaos.\\"<br />I particularly enjoyed the several essays that demolish many of the most basic economic fallacies.  Many assert that wages rise due to labor unions.  However, that is an elementary mistake.  Wages rise because in an increase in capital invested per worker causes an increase in the productivity of labor.  He also refutes inflationist schemes, of which Keyensianism is one.	2002-12-04
US	52963744	RC3AGN6RCPWMZ	9999827659	68698362	Ludwig von Mises : Scholar, Creator, Hero	Books	4	5	8	N	N	Concise	Ludwig von Mises did more than anyone in the twentieth century to advance the cause of individual freedom.  His work as an economist and social thinker will certainly stand the test of time.  One of his students was the late Murray Rothbard, who attended Mises' seminar in 1949.  Rothbard provides a brief, but very exciting look at Mises' life and work in this small book.  The most interesting part of this work is von Mises' role in the Austrian government after World War I.  This book is worth reading, but as an exposition of von Mises' life and work, Israel Kirzner's recently published study is more comprehensive. Nonetheless, Rothbard's wit and tenacity shines through as usual.	2002-12-01
US	52963744	R3D3R3QR2JIECZ	0140275169	785616726	An Intelligent Person's Guide to Philosophy	Books	5	20	21	N	N	Excellent Introduction	Roger Scruton is one of the UK's best-known philosophers, and a conservative to boot.  Unlike many philosophers, Scruton writes well.  He alternates between weighty tomes and books for the common man.  Like his other works pitched to the level the common man, AN INTELLIGENT PERSON'S GUIDE TO PHILOSOPHY is simple, but not simplistic.<br />This work is a joy to read.  Scruton - whose primary intellectual debt is to Kant and Wittgenstein - discusses a number of the central themes in philosophy.  It is something of an \\"opinionated introduction.\\"  While Scruton wants to explain the issue and give an overview to the debate, he wants to provide answers as well.  Take for example the question of skepticism.  Introductory works on philosophy often go into excessive detail about spoons in water, color blindness, placing your frozen hand in hot water, etc.  Skepticism becomes the \\"default\\" position.  Scruton turns the tables.  As he notes, as long as one starts from the Cartesian \\"inside out\\" approach to the mind, it is extremely hard to \\"connect\\" the mind to an external world.  However, Wittgenstein's argument against \\"private language\\" provides a cogent rejoinder: how could one speak of sensations if there is not some public language?  Whether Wittgenstein's thought leads to a different kind of subjectivism is another question.  (I'm no expert on Wittgenstein, but I'm reading a work by Brand Blanshard who refuses to discuss the later Wittgenstein on the ground that his jottings are open to so many understandings that not even the experts can confidently expound them.)<br />This is an excellent introduction to philosophy, which will encourage readers who have minimal philosophy training to study more.  I think Searle's MIND, LANGUAGE AND SOCIETY; and Gilson's THE UNITY OF PHILOSOPHICAL EXPERIENCE would make excellent follow-up works.  Scruton's MODERN PHILOSOPHY: AN INTRODUCTION AND SURVEY covers similar ground as the book under review, but in much more detail.	2002-12-01
US	52963744	R33D6ILGOWK7LW	1572702168	289130693	The Lessons of History	Books	3	90	102	N	N	Some lessons learned	Will and Ariel Durant wrote a massive eleven-volume history, The Story of Civilization.  After they finished volume ten -- which was to be the last - they came out with this brief work.  (In 1975 they produced the final volume in the series, The Age of Napoleon).  Although this series is not considered by professional historians to be a great work of history, the Durants' love of history is evident on every page.  I read most of them in high school and college, and they help inspire a life-long interest history.<br />The Lessons of History consists of a number of short chapters, in which the Durants summarize what their study of history revealed on various themes, such as war, morals, government, religion, etc.  Although certainly not a profound work, it contains a number of insights.  For example, the discussion of the lineage of communism is quite interesting.  On the other hand, the Durants strike me as having been moderately left of center, and some of their arguments in favor of government regulation of the economy don't convince me.  They appear somewhat more conservative on morals, and there is a good discussion on how war negatively impacts traditional morality.  The discussion of religion is somewhat ambiguous, perhaps reflecting Will Durant, who studied for the priesthood, became an atheist, and died an agnostic.<br />This work came out in 1968, and the Durants make a couple of predictions which didn't exactly come true.  They argue that by 2000 the Roman Catholic Church will be politically dominant in the US.  In addition, they expressed the commonplace idea in the 60s that the Soviet Union and the United States were coming closer together and would eventually meet in the middle.	2002-12-01
US	52963744	R1AFXVU9ZXB27O	0847670619	359608737	The Libertarian Reader	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Libertarianism 101	Tibor Machan edited this outstanding collection of writings, which came to print in 1982.  It was one of my first introductions to libertarian thought and it remains immensely valuable.  The writers are all twentieth century thinkers.  All the big names in contemporary libertarianism (with the exception of Ayn Rand) are present: Rothbard, von Mises, Hayek, Friedman, Nozick and Hospers.  While Rand herself isn't included, there are essays by semi-Randians.  (I'm sure Prof. Machan would have included an essay by Rand if he had been able to get permission.)  The one gap in this book is the complete exclusion on any discussion of libertarian foreign policy (non-interventionism).<br />A couple essays stand out.  First, there is Rothbard's \\"Society without State.\\"  Rothbard was an anarcho-capitalist.  If you think anarchy is unworkable, read this essay.  There is also John Hosper's \\"Libertarianism and Legal Paternalism,\\" a discussion of the limits of libertarianism when applied to children and other thorny issues.  It garnered a fair amount of attention when it originally came out.<br />No doubt there has been important work done in libertarian thought since 1982, but this is still a great place to start if you want to get the basics of libertarianism.  I haven't read David Boas' collection of the same name, but based on the index it covers writings from a much broader time span (starting with the Bible), so they would complement each other quite well.	2002-11-30
US	52963744	RIH6UVWK87W01	0945466102	636809103	What Has Government Done to Our Money?	Books	5	38	39	N	N	A Gem	&quot;What Has Government Done to Our Money&quot; is an excellent introduction to the consistent libertarian view of money; namely, that government need not intervene in a nation's monetary life at all (either by printing money or regulating banks).  In a relatively short number of pages, Rothbard explains money, inflation, banking, and the history of monetary policy.  Rothbard notes that the dream of the banksters is a single currency that can be inflated at will.  With the rise of the EU and the Euro, we are getting closer to that day.<br />Don't stop with this book -- be sure to get Rothbard's &quot;A History of Money and Banking in the US&quot; and also &quot;The Mystery of Banking.&quot;	2002-11-30
US	52963744	R2EKAV5Q9SDHUW	1560003197	215202317	The Costs of War: America's Pyrrhic Victories	Books	5	30	32	N	N	Absolutely nothing . . . .	This work - originating in a conference at the Ludwig von Mises Institute - analyzes America's wars (and to a certain extent war in general) - in terms of Misesian and revisionist thought.  While America has exerted enormous influence on the world through war and foreign intervention, their costs - in terms of lives, freedom, and prosperity - has been enormous.  For those who are familiar with paleoconservative and libertarian thought, the essays will have a familiar ring.  For those whose knowledge of \\"conservatism\\" is limited to the \\"conservative\\" talking heads and think tankers, these essays will be eye-openers.<br />I enjoyed all the essays, but some deserve particular attention.  Allan Carlson's \\"The Military as an Engine of Social Change\\" shows how war not only leads to an increase in power, but also is used by government to change the family.  This aspect of war never seems to get much attention from the neoconservative hawks.  Murray Rothbard contributes a typically brilliant essay on leftist intellectuals who pushed America into World War I.  As usual, Rothbard sees the \\"big picture,\\" integrating both the men and movements that led to U.S. involvement in perhaps the greatest tragedy in human history.  His discussion of John Dewey is brilliant.  Ralph Raico contributes an excellent \\"take down\\" of Winston Churchill.<br />One essay I particularly enjoyed was Paul Gottfried's \\"Is Modern Democracy Warlike?\\"  Prof. Gottfried points out that - for all his brilliance in economics - von Mises didn't understand American democracy.  The seeds of big government are present in the democratic system, just as much (if not more) than in other systems.  Hans-Herman Hoppe (another contributor) develops this theme in great detail in his book DEMOCRACY - THE GOD THAT FAILED.	2002-11-30
US	52963744	R6VN1MDOU88AE	0930073207	656533858	Economics in One Lesson: 50th Anniversary Edition	Books	5	69	72	N	N	Mises Made Easy	Henry Hazlitt is best known for this brilliant work, one of the most concise and persuasive defenses of the free market ever written.  One reason why socialism and statism appeal to the common man is that government actions are immediate and dramatic: they give the impression that something is being done about a specific problem or crisis.  To show that government intervention in the economy isn't wise, one must \\"look not merely at the immediate but at the longer effect of any act or policy; one must trace the consequences of that policy not merely for one group but for all groups.\\"<br />Hazlitt proceeds to apply the above lesson to numerous government actions.  By drawing the reader's attention to the unseen effects, the failure of socialism is exposed.  Take for example government \\"jobs programs.\\"  If the government employs 500 people, one might think that government has \\"created\\" 500 jobs.  However, government had to tax its citizens to fund these jobs.  Had the money been left in the hands of taxpayers, their spending would have resulted in an equivalent number of employed individuals.  Government didn't \\"create\\" jobs - it merely destroyed jobs in the private sector.  On issue after issue, Hazlitt demonstrates that government intervention in the economy fails to achieve its stated goals (although its real goal - an increase in government power - is always achieved).  In addition, many basic economic falicies are refuted, such as \\"machines destroy jobs,\\" and workers need \\"to earn enough money to buy back the products.\\"<br />If you are new to the study of economics, don't stop here.  Be sure to read Rothbard's \\"Man, Economy and State\\"; Von Mises' \\"Human Action\\"; and Reisman's \\"Capitalism.\\"  They are the twentieth century's \\"big three\\" works in economics.	2002-11-30
US	52963744	R17F187NKHNS5L	0875522203	216723119	Cornelius Van Til: An Analysis of His Thought	Books	4	25	27	N	N	Best Intro to Van Til	Generally, the best way to study a philosopher is to read an important work of his.  For example, we study Plato by studying \\"The Republic\\" or some of his shorter dialogues.  With others - such as Hegel - it's best to read various excerpts from his works, trying to get a sense of what he is up to.  With a smaller number you should start by reading a book about the philosopher.  Cornelius Van Til (1895-1987) falls into that third category.  Fortunately, John Frame has written an excellent introduction to the thought of his teacher.<br />Cornelius Van Til is acclaimed by many in the Reformed community as the most important thinker since Calvin.  Frame shares this opinion, while noting some of the weaknesses of Van Til's thought and writing style.  For those who don't know, Van Til was a Christian apologist who developed a system called presuppositionalism.  While it's hard to describe briefly, its central claim is that one must presuppose the truth of Scripture and challenge the unbeliever by showing that his beliefs are inconsistent with his presuppositions.  The unbeliever cannot justify his own beliefs apart from the existence of a theistic universe.  Hence, only Christianity can be shown to meet \\"every legitimate demand of reason.\\"  Van Til didn't reject the use of evidence in apologetics, but instead thought that evidences must be presented in a manner consistent with the presuppositional apologetics  (This concept isn't exactly clear to me, even after reading Prof. Frame's chapter a few times.)<br />Van Til is hard to understand.  First of all, his books aren't well organized.  Second, he writes in such a way as to exaggerate the differences between his thought and other thinkers, and the differences between believers and unbelievers.  If you take some of his ideas literally, Van Til appears to say that unbelievers don't know anything and there are no similarities between Christian and non-Christian philosophies.<br />As an aside, Frame's approach to Van Til issomewhat controversial within the Van Til movement.  Frame believes that once Van Til's thought is stripped of some of its more extreme statements, his apologetics isn't all that different from other apologetic systems.  Second, he disagrees with Van Til on a number of issues.  After you read this book, read the late Greg Bahnsen's excellent \\"Van Til's Apologetics,\\" which contains excerpts from Van Til's works along with Bahnsen's comments.  Bahsen was a more consistent Van Tillian than Frame.<br />\\"Cornelius Van Til: An Analysis of his Thought\\" also includes a short biography of Van Til and a brief history of the Van Tillian movement.  It includes a little too much of John Frame's biography interspersed in the text..  We really don't need to read an excerpt from Prof. Frame's seminary paper presented to Van Til.  This is a minor point in an otherwise excellent book.	2002-11-30
US	52963744	RASY3E0SU952T	0830814167	785105427	The Church: Sacraments, Worship, Ministry, Mission (Christian Foundations)	Books	4	12	14	N	N	Vintage Bloesch	This is the sixth volume of the projected seven volume series by Prof. Donald Bloesch in his \\"Christian Foundations\\" series.  Prof. Bloesch is something of a neo-evangelical or \\"post-fundamentalist\\" theologian in the Reformed tradition.<br />Although this series is billed as a \\"systematic theology,\\" it is a somewhat unusual series of works.  While Prof. Bloesch cites Scripture, his general approach is to pick a topic, state what others have said, and then set forth his own opinion.  Generally his views fall within the ecumenical \\"vital center,\\" but with a bias toward Reformed theology.  His mentors are thinkers such as Barth, Torrance, and Forsythe.  Unfortunately, he doesn't interact with more conservative Reformed thinkers.<br />This study of ecclesiology is fairly comprehensive, and includes sections and the sacraments, ministry, ecumenicalism and other key topics.  There is an excellent chapter on worship, which defends traditional worship against more modern approaches.  On the other hand, Prof. Bloesch supports the ordination of women and has moderately higher-critical views of Scripture.  (Prof. Bloesch concedes in the introduction that he has been called a liberal by some conservatives.)<br />If you want to learn about \\"Christian foundations\\" a better place to start would be with Tom Oden's three volume systematic theology and some of the introductory works of Alister McGrath.  From a Roman Catholic point of view, Ott's Fundamentals of Catholic Dogma and the Catechism of the Catholic Church are good as well.	2002-11-10
US	52963744	R2FTWJSJILPEU8	0765807564	632401200	Sociology as an Art Form	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Vintage Nisbet	Robert Nisbet (1913-1996) is a writer that every conservative should read.  Perhaps more than any other thinker, Nisbet showed the connection between the decline of community and the rise of government.  Although something of a libertarian, his approach to society provides an excellent contrast to such individualist libertarians as Murray Rothbard. (Although Rothbard's view of society is not inconsistent with Nisbet's.)  <br />In this excellent little work, Nisbet explains how sociology (and other disciplines) resembles art.  For example, consider the \\"classes\\" that make up Marxian thought, or the themes in Tocqueville's works.  In many ways they resemble the characters in a Dickens novel.  Just as Dickens' characters were meant to be \\"exemplars\\" of a certain type, Marx, Weber and other sociologists describe their \\"types\\" with artistic imagery.  Nisbet has a fascinating chapter in which he shows how many scientists have conceived their work in artistic terms.  There is an aspect of creativity that can't be reduced simply to experiments and statistics.  Nisbet relies, in part, on the ideas of Thomas Kuhn.  (While I don't agree with Kuhnian relativism (if that's what he in fact taught), his insights have a certain validity as a description of how science operates.)  Nisbet makes the interesting observation that while scientists and artists tend to work alone or in small groups, government wages \\"war\\" on cancer, poverty, or whatever.  These government programs are generally less than successful and probably stifle progress.<br />Nisbet was, strictly speaking, a sociologist.   However, his work encompasses what might be called the \\"history of ideas.\\"  Even if your interest is neither sociology nor art, you should read this book.  This edition also contains an excellent introduction by Paul Gottfried.	2002-11-10
US	52963744	RM80FFV167KDD	0761536418	268587681	The Real Lincoln: A New Look at  Abraham Lincoln, His Agenda, and an Unnecessary War	Books	5	18	32	N	N	The Revolution Was	Although Abraham Lincoln plunged the United States into a brutal war that divided the nation against itself, he is now praised almost unanimously as a brilliant politician and humanitarian.  While he is called the \\"great emancipator\\" he repeatedly stated that his goal was not to interfere with slavery in those areas in which it was legal. <br />Prof. Thomas DiLorenzo has written an excellent work providing a \\"new look\\" at Lincoln, \\"his agenda\\" and an \\"unnecessary war.\\"  Actually, the look presented isn't exactly new.  Authors have criticized Lincoln for a long time and books have been written about the brutality of the War Between the States and the centralizing effects of Lincoln's revolution.  Nonetheless, this book gathers all of that information and makes it easy for the layman to digest. <br />As Prof. DiLorenzo shows, the key to understanding Lincoln is not slavery, but his life-long devotion to Henry Clay and his \\"American system.\\"  Simply put, Clay believed in \\"internal improvements\\" (government spending projects) and tariffs.  This is what we today might call \\"big government\\" and required centralization.   Seen in this light, Lincoln's aims are understandable - expand the power of government, restrict civil liberties, and defeat secession \\"by any means necessary.\\"  That explains the rise of centralized banking, the income tax, and \\"corporate welfare\\" during Lincoln's reign.<br />On issue after issue, Prof. DiLorenzo sets the record straight.  For example, we are told that secession was \\"treason.\\"  Yet Lincoln had supported the right to succeed in 1848.  In fact, two states (Virginia and New York) had ratified the Constitution with a proviso that they were not giving up their right to secede.  Lincoln is portrayed as the liberator of the black man, yet he stated that he did not believe in racial equality.<br />Abraham Lincoln may not have been the \\"great emancipator,\\" but Prof. DiLorenzo shows that he was the \\"great centralizer.\\"  It was Lincoln who more than anyone destroyed the limited government that the founders created.  No wonder he is praised by the left and the neo-conservative \\"right.\\"	2002-10-27
US	52963744	R1ZJEW2CSU316Y	0226320669	945922174	The Fatal Conceit: The Errors of Socialism (The Collected Works of F. A. Hayek)	Books	4	113	120	N	N	Why Socialism Fails	Friedrich von Hayek (1899-1992) was one of the twentieth century's seminal thinkers.  He was an economist in the Austrian tradition and studied under Ludwig von Mises.  (Although he is often grouped with von Mises, he was not the consistent libertarian that von Mises was.)  THE FATAL CONCEIT was Hayek's final work, and was put together from a manuscript by the late W. W. Bartley, III (who is named as \\"editor\\" of the work.)  This book is timely in that it was written at the tail end of the communist age and provided Hayek with an opportunity to reflect on the failure the socialist revolution.<br />As Hayek shows, the central problem with socialism is that it based on the false idea of \\"constructive rationalism,\\" the belief that man can order society based purely on reason (and therefore planning).  However, social progress is based in large part on tradition, or -- as Hayek describes it -- \\"between instinct and reason.\\"  This progress is inherently evolutionary and proceeds by slow steps.  As such it integrates all the knowledge that is dispersed in society.<br />The theory presented in this book is a mix of liberalism and conservatism.  In  many ways it is the application of evolutionary theory to social though.  As he daringly says: \\"morals, including, especially, our institutions of property, freedom and justice, are not a creation of man's reason but a distinct endowment conferred upon him by cultural evolution.\\"  This certainly won't endear him to either religious thinkers or Randian libertarians.<br />Hayek proceeds to discuss the benefits of private property, free enterprise and trade from this evolutionary perspective and shows socialized planning is inevitable destructive of social progress.<br />Hayek provides an excellent refutation of the central errors of socialism.  The reader might want to compare his approach with that of von Mises in THE ANTI-CAPITALISTIC MENTALITY and PLANNED CHAOS, which covers similar territory from a somewhat different approach.	2002-10-14
US	52963744	RHUIW8P6DRGFI	0631212817	649321043	Christian Spirituality: An Introduction	Books	4	14	15	N	N	Solid Introduction	Prof. Alister McGrath is a moderately conservative theologian and an ordained minister of the Church of England. He has written a large number of works, some of which are quite technical and others of a more introductory nature. <br />This work is - as its name indicates - an introductory study of Christian spirituality (a topic that is often left out of standard texts on theology, for some reason.).  I enjoyed the book a lot.  In particular, it is well organized.  The book starts with a discussion of certain themes and proceeds to develop the.  The second portion of this book surveys spirituality from a historical perspective.  Prof. McGrath provides brief selections from various writers and then asks questions, encouraging the reader to reflect on the excerpt.  Prof. McGrath discusses prayer, Christian living, the church year, and other matters that form the basis of spirituality. <br />The one problem that I have with the book is that it tries to be a little too ecumenical.  For example, when discussing asceticism, he doesn't mention the extremes that many Catholics have taken to deprive themselves of worldly things.  Likewise, when discussing Mary and the saints, he simply points out that Protestants reject Roman Catholic practices in this respect.  This doesn't exactly clue the reader in on the extent of the controversy.<br />In spite of a few flaws, this is an excellent introduction.	2002-10-14
US	52963744	R1L023B0R94SWN	1572460725	639931155	The Foundations of Morality	Books	4	12	12	N	N	The Ethics of Cooperation	Henry Hazlitt was the author of 17 books.  He is best known in libertarian and conservative circles for his outstanding, ECONOMICS IN ONE LESSON.  He also wrote a fascinating book on ethics entitles, THE FOUNDATIONS OF MORALITY.<br />This is a comprehensive work on the foundations of ethics. According to Hazlitt, the foundation of morality is social cooperation and from this principle he develops a variation of rule utilitarianism.  Drawing upon the free enterprise tradition in general and the economic theory of von Mises in particular, Hazlitt argues that actions are good that promote social happiness, and the best way to achieve this is through the free enterprise system.  Hazlit therefore rejects other approaches to ethics, such as natural law or religious based morality.  <br />The best portion of this work is how Hazlitt relates utilitarianism and self-interest.  One argument against utilitarianism is that by making the social good the basis of morality, all self-interest and initiative is destroyed.  But as Hazlitt shows, those acts that are in our own self-interest tend to increase the overall happiness of society.   If all my acts had to motivated by a desire to save starving people in the four corners of the world, neither they nor I would be likely be any better off as a result.<br />After he describes the foundations of ethics, he takes up some practical issues.  For example, there are two outstanding chapters which discuss the relative morality of capitalism and socialism.<br />This book contains a brief introduction by Prof. Leland Yeager, who has written a book on ethics from a similar perspective entitled, ETHICS AS A SOCIAL SCIENCE: THE MORAL PHILOSOPHY OF SOCIAL COOPERATION.  For a different view on ethics from a libertarian perspective, check out Murray Rothbard's, THE ETHICS OF LIBERTY.	2002-10-05
US	52963744	R23P0IHV9HFFQF	0631228152	432162380	The Future of Christianity	Books	3	26	26	N	N	OK	Prof. Alister McGrath is a moderately conservative theologian and an ordained minister of the Church of England. He has written a large number of works, some of which are quite technical and others which are more introductory in nature. <br />This book is part of Blackwell's \\"Manifesto\\" series.  As Prof. McGrath tells us, the purpose of this series is to encourage \\"discussion of important issues.\\"  The topic is the future of Christianity, and Prof. McGrath takes a wide swath, dealing with Protestantism, Orthodoxy and Catholicism (although he spends a fair amount of time on the current situation of Anglicanism.)<br />I've long been impressed with Dr. McGrath's ability to churn out books, but I'm starting to wonder whether he is trying to write too many books.  This work is interesting and contains many interesting facts and vignettes, but it reads like a number of short articles pasted together.  The book jumps from subject to subject, hitting theology, sociology, history and other topics.  For example, on pages 135-140, there is a section entitled \\"The Longing for Spiritual Authenticity,\\" which seems somewhat out of place.  Much of this is taken from McGrath's 1999 work, CHRISTIAN SPIRITUALITY (pages 26-28), also published by Blackwell.  The work lacks the focus that one would expect when dealing with this subject.<br />Like all of Dr. McGrath's works, this is worth reading.  However, I think Philip Jenkins' work, THE NEXT CHRISTENDOM, is a more thoughtful reflection on the future of Christianity.	2002-09-23
US	52963744	R1PCZ2MMQRQNY5	0802839606	232486632	A Mind's Matter: An Intellectual Autobiography	Books	4	23	25	N	N	A Mind at Work	Stanley L. Jaki is one of the most important writers on the relationship between religion and science.  Prof. Jaki has written over 40 books.  His work concerns the philosophy of science, the relationship between science and theology, theology proper, the history of astronomy and physics, and some other issues as well.  Perhaps because of his writing style - which is at times polemical and at other times obscure - he doesn't receive the attention he deserves.<br />By way of background, although Fr. Jaki is a conservative Catholic theologian and has, for example, written books defending the papacy, he is no \\"fundamentalist.\\" While he rejects Darwinism, he also rejects any attempt to find &quot;concordance&quot; between Genesis and natural science. He also considers Genesis 1 to be post-exilic and the product of multiple authors, which will hardly endear him to conservative Protestants, who might otherwise sympathize with much of his work.<br />This work is an enjoyable discussion of Prof. Jaki's career and the circumstances that surrounded the writing of his numerous books.  It's enjoyable to read about the trials and travails of someone attempting to get his books into print, the reception of these works, and the effort that it takes to produce them.  Some of the stories are quite amusing, such as the reception that Prof. Jaki has received from Moslems and Creationists (I think he is somewhat unfair to the latter.)<br />The big problem with this book is that Prof. Jaki obviously isn't happy that his work hasn't received the attention that it deserves.  Unfortunately, he treats the readers to (at times) gratuitous speculations about why this is the case.  I'm sure we would all like to \\"settle scores\\" but this detracts from this otherwise enjoyable work.	2002-09-15
US	52963744	R1N68E5TOMEFY	0847697614	18536685	Viable Values: A Study of Life as the Root and Reward of Morality	Books	3	10	35	N	N	Are Randian Ethics Viable?	Tara Smith is a follower of the novelist/philosopher Ayn Rand, and also a professor of philosophy at the University of Texas.  Her goal in VIABLE VALUES is to defend and develop Rand's ethical theory.<br />There are some good things about this book.  It contains an excellent discussion of many of the central issues in ethics as a well as a critique of non-Objectivist theories.  It is also well written, and contains a good mix of theory and practical examples.  Not everyone will agree that Prof. Smith has succeeded in defending Rand's ethics, but she seeks to defend Rand in an even-handed, non-hagiographic way.  (It is also free from the normal snide Objectivist attacks on religion.)  So this work is breath of fresh air compared to other works from the Objectivist camp.  Nonetheless, Prof. Smith appears to be connected to Official Objectivism (e.g., the Ayn Rand Institute).  While she refers to non-Objectivist writers, she makes no mention of thinkers in the orbit of Objectivism, such as D. Kelley, C. Sciabarra, T. Machan, D. den Uyl, or D. Rasmussen.  (Of course, she doesn't mention any critics of Objectivism.)<br />Turning to the substance of the book, I think the defense of Objectivist ethics is well done. According to Prof. Smith, life is the standard of value.  Therefore, all values must be based on man's needs as a living entity.  The good is that which advances one's life; the bad is that which diminishes it.  As others have commented, there are problems with this approach.  It provides no basis to respect the rights of others.  If my life is the highest standard of value, why shouldn't I sacrifice others to me?  Also, it makes a big difference to say \\"life is the standard of value\\" versus \\"one's life is standard of value.\\"  These two approaches lead to dramatically different answers to many questions.  Like many Objectivists, Prof. Smith doesn't to a good job distinguishing between the two statements.   For example, Prof. Smith gives the example of two college students, Larry and Dan.  Larry is a hard-working student focused on a career in medicine; Dan is a neer-do-well without any purpose.  She states that Larry is \\"living\\" but Dan is \\"dying.\\"  But let's add a condition.  Assume that Dan is the beneficiary of a trust fund and is guaranteed an income that will comfortably provide for him until he dies.  By what Objectivist principle do we say that Dan is \\"dying\\"?  It's his life and he is \\"living\\" just fine.  If everyone lived like Dan, mankind would be in big trouble; but the same can be said with reference to the heroes in Rand's books, who were all childless.<br />There is a connection between much of what we consider moral and the concept of \\"life\\" (indeed, most religions attest to this); but whether we can make this principle the foundation of morality is another question.	2002-09-14
US	52963744	R1GAPM68ELVIKG	0375505636	872371639	Warrior Politics: Why Leadership Demands a Pagan Ethos	Books	3	4	13	N	N	That Old Time Religion	In Warrior Politics: Why Leadership Demands a Pagan Ethos, Robert Kaplan surveys much of recorded history with the goal of showing that a \\"realistic\\" (and thus \\"pagan\\" and nonidealistic) approach to foreign policy is mandatory.  Mr. Kaplan's hero is Machiavelli, who stressed \\"political necessity rather than moral perfection.\\"  [p. 60.]<br />This is a hard book to review: Mr. Kaplan jumps back and forth from ancient history, modern history, and philosophy garnering examples to make his point.  For example, in Chapter 7 (pages 78-95) we read about Hobbes, Malthus, Sierra Leone in 1995-96, the American Revolution, and a couple other topics.  One imagines that an author could easily write a book from the opposite perspective, given such a wide swath of history and ideas to choose from.  <br />In addition, I found some of Mr. Kaplan's examples quite dubious.  For example, Franklin Roosevelt is praised for his \\"mischievous evasions\\" (i.e. lies) that got America involved in World War II.  [p. 56.]  Weren't the American people (the majority of whom after all voted for Roosevelt) entitled to know that he intended to involve them in a foreign war?  What was so \\"virtuous\\" about that?  Abraham Lincoln's targeting of civilians (a fact which Mr. Kaplan concedes) is likewise praised because it resulted in a \\"mass society based on uniform laws.\\"  [p. 61.]  So the death of hundreds of thousands is justified in the name of uniform laws?<br />Of course, history provides a many examples of paganism in foreign policy that aren't particularly flattering.  Take for example the terror bombing by the allies of German and Japanese cities in World War II (which many of the churches heroically spoke against).  Perhaps Mr. Kaplan should have considered that the Allies' decision to wage total war against civilians was made by men whose pagan sensibilities he also praises.	2002-09-01
US	52963744	ROPG1MUZHK03L	081321081X	55129423	Pius XII and the Holocaust: Understanding the Controversy	Books	4	13	20	N	N	Concise Overview of the Controversy	One of these days I plan on reading some of the numerous books that have come out pro and con concerning Pius XII and the Jewish holocaust.  Since I don't have the time now, I was pleasantly surprised to come across this book by Prof. Jose Sanchez.  Prof. Sanchez provides a readable background to the controversy, discussing the sources available, the books that have been written, and the arguments that have been made.  This book is somewhat favorable to Pius XII, but not uncritically so.  <br />Even though I'm reasonably well-read in history, I learned a lot.  For example, the Vatican's intelligence ability is not necessarily the best in the world, contrary to what you would imagine given the large number of Catholic priests.  Also, I've read dozens of times that Pius XII (while Secretary of State) wrote Pius XI's anti-Nazi Mit Breneder Sorge, when in fact he only made some edits.<br />The best part of the book is that it puts Pius XII's actions in historical context.  It's important to realize that contrary to what some people believe, the Roman Catholic Church is not an all-powerful institution whose members walk lock-step in agreement with the Pope.  As Prof. Sanchez notes, the Vatican had tried for years to stop the enactment of anti-clerical legislation, with limited success.  Indeed, this only made the church look weaker in the eyes of politicians.<br />One thing that is interesting is how much times have changed, probably because of television.  Pius XII was admired for being aloof with an almost regal air to him.  On the other hand, John Paul II has inaugurated a \\"show biz\\" papacy, much to the consternation of many traditionalist catholics.	2002-08-22
US	52963744	RHSNVT56Q34Q3	0310212766	617184300	Four Views on Salvation in a Pluralistic World	Books	3	29	31	N	N	OK	This is book is part of Zondervan's Counterpoints series.  According to the editors of this work, the purpose is to bring Christian thinkers together to discuss the question of the salvation of non-Christians. The contributors are: (1) John Hick, advocating pluralism; (2) Clark Pinnock advocating inclusivism; (3) Alister McGrath advocating a somewhat exclusivistic position; and (4) R. Douglas Geivett &amp; W. Gary Phillips advocating exclusivism.<br />As is often the case with this series, the book suffers from poor editing. All of the essays are worth reading, but they generally don't deal with the alleged topic of the book.  For example, Prof. Hick tells us that he believes in universal salvation and that he has written a book arguing for this position, but he doesn't give his reasons in the essay.  Prof. McGrath touches on the issue, but not in any great detail.  Prof. Pinnock deals with the topic in a limited manner.  It is only Profs. Geivett &amp; Philips who actually go into the question in some detail.  They provide an exegesis of Acts 4:12 and some other passages.  However, none of the other contributors responds with any detailed exegesis. What is often seen as the key passage concerning the salvation of non-believers -- Romans 2 -- is only mentioned in passing.  So, this book is really a discussion of religious pluralism, not salvation.<br />In spite of my criticism, I think this book is helpful to anyone who wants a background on the general issue of religious pluralism.  If you are looking for a discussion of evangelical views of the salvation of non-believers, then this isn't the place to look.	2002-08-09
US	52963744	R3Q34HVJVG9KEW	0910884293	598448773	The Anti-Capitalistic Mentality	Books	5	79	88	N	N	Brilliant	THE ANTI-CAPITALISTIC MENTALITY is an outstanding little book by Ludwig von Mises which explains why Capitalism - which has raised the standard of living of so many people - is hated by so many.<br />We often think of von Mises as a great economist (which he certainly was), but Mises considered his work to be \\"sociology\\" as well.  However, his writings are full of brilliant sociological commentary on any number of subjects.  Take the chapter \\"The Non-Economic Objections to Capitalism.\\"  How often people criticize Capitalism for its alleged \\"materialism.\\"  But listen to Mises: \\"The preeminent art of this age of . . . `materialism' was music.  Wagner and Verdi, Berlioz and Bizet, Brahms and Bruckner, Hugo Wolf and Mahler . . . .\\"  [p. 61.]  And this music was written before the record permitted the great masters to be enjoyed by the common man, who could never hob-nob with aristocracy at the great music halls of the world.  <br />In addition to this type of sociology, sprinkled throughout the book are concise economic lessons about how the increase in capital is the cause of higher wages, not unions and socialist schemes.  So this book is a useful introduction to Mises' thought.<br />Although this book is important, if you want to understand the greatness of Mises, read: HUMAN ACTION, SOCIALISM, and THEORY OF MONEY AND CREDIT.  Also, Prof. Kirzner's book on Mises is an outstanding introduction.	2002-07-29
US	52963744	R1RE4DOCF3LU59	0671219014	745163352	Prophets on the Right: Profiles of Conservative Critics of American Globalism	Books	5	15	17	N	N	Conservatives for Peace	Nowadays, when most Americans think about people who are on the side of peace and against U.S interventionism, they tend to think about those on the Left. Of course, this isn't as true as it used to be, considering that many on the Left supported Desert Storm and the attack on Serbia. ...<br />However, as Ronald Radosh (no man of the Right) points out, many on the Right were opposed to U.S. imperialism, globalism, and war going back to the Spanish American War. In fact, the traditional approach of the Right is a non-interventionist foreign policy (often misleadingly called \\"isolationism.\\") On the other hand, it was those on the Left - such thinkers as John Dewey ...who supported U.S. involvement in foreign wars and smeared non-interventionists.<br />In this outstanding book, Dr. Radosh profiles five opponents of interventionism of the Right: Charles Beard, Oswald Villard, John Flynn, Robert Taft & Lawrence Dennis. These people didn't agree on everything, and one or two might not be accurately called members of the \\"Right.\\" (Villard, for example, drifted from laissez-faire to support of Roosevelt's economic policy.) But they were against U.S. globalism. Radosh details their position with respect to entry into World War II and then their opposition (in whole or in part) to the Cold War. <br />What happened in the 50s and the 60s is that the Old Right was preempted by William Buckley and others (some of whom were Socialists and former Marxists) and the Cold War become a moral imperative, even if it meant endless U.S. intervention in the affairs of other countries. (This sad fact is well told in Justin Raimondo's RECLAIMING THE AMERICAN RIGHT.)<br />This is one of the most exciting books I've read in a while. It's fascinating to read about those on the Right who were against both the welfare AND the warfare state. They knew that interventionism abroad would mean big government at home.<br />Now that the neo-conservatives are beating the drums of war against Iraq, Iran,and who knows wherever, it is time to reclaim a great heritage of conservatives for peace. Prof. Radosh's book is an excellent place to start.	2002-07-17
US	52963744	R1QXUUGMOGEEVM	0451147952	325358008	Capitalism: The Unknown Ideal	Books	3	15	28	N	N	Interesting Defense of Capitalism	Ayn Rand was unique among Capitalism's defenders.  Instead of defending Capitalism on economic grounds (its ability to increase the standard of living of the masses, for example) she defended it on moral grounds.  Man is a rational animal who is rightly concerned with his self-interest.  Capitalism is the system of government necessitated by the nature of man.<br />CAPITALISM: THE UNKNOWN IDEAL is a collection of essays mostly by Rand (but with some by Alan Greenspan, Nathaniel Branden & Robert Hessen) which were originally published in the 1960's.  Rand's essays share the virtues and shortcomings of most of her work.  The writing is clear and exciting, but some of the argumentation is overblown.  Her standard approach is to take a doctrine that she doesn't believe in (religion, for example), caricature it, and then draw all sorts of inferences about what a person must believe to hold such a doctrine.  So her recreation of what Christianity or Conservatism is has little to with what most of its advocates believe.<br />Although Rand's philosophy and her defense of Capitalism is problematic, there is a good deal of interesting social commentary in this book.  I particularly like \\"Extremism, or the Art of Smearing.\\"Another excellent is essay is \\"The New Fascism: Rule by Consensus.\\"  There is also a lot of dubious reasoning, which stems from the fact that Rand wasn't particularly well read in the areas she felt obliged to pontificate on.  For example, she says that the era of peace from 1815 to 1914 was the result of Capitalism.  A.J.P. Taylor (a socialist and not a religious believer from what I can tell), stated that it was the fruit of Christianity.   She says that the founding fathers of the US wanted to create a totally new system of government, but the Declaration of Independence indicate that they sought conserve the existing system from English encroachments.  Or, she states that businessman are the \\"persecuted minority\\" when in fact they benefit more than anyone from subsidies and various protectionist legislation.<br />For defenses of Capitalism based on different approaches, the interested reader should consult the works of Murray Rothbard and Ludwig von Mises.	2002-07-05
US	52963744	R2TU9301YFHSF8	1560007133	824883567	History of the Idea of Progress	Books	5	31	37	N	N	The History of an Idea	Robert Nisbet (1913-1996) was, as I've said before, one of the most important thinkers in recent memory.  Although commonly called a sociologist, many of his writings fit broadly into the category of the \\"history of ideas.\\"  One such work is HISTORY OF THE IDEA OF PROGRESS. This work is an invaluable overview of the belief in progress from early times to the present.  We might be tempted to say that history has no general direction, it's just a series of \\"ups and downs.\\"  While this view is defensible, it is interesting that the belief in progress (or perhaps more accurately, the inevitability of progress) has been one of the dominant ideas of human history.  And, as Nisbet shows, it isn't confined to modern man or the hotheads of the French Revolution.  Echoes of it can be found in the Greeks and Romans, and Christianity was a very \\"progress oriented\\" religion.<br />Nisbet proceeds chronologically, discussing the key thinkers and schools.  One discussion I found fascinating was that of Joachim of Fiore, a Catholic monk, who was one of the leading religious advocates of progress (and who saw a future age of the spiritual elite.)  I was quite surprised to read that many Puritans referred favorably to Joachim in the seventeenth century.  (In spite of their pessimistic view of human nature, many Puritans - and some of their offshoots such as the Fifth Monarchy Men - were believers in progress.)<br />Many Enlightenment thinkers believed in progress as well.  One such thinker was Kant.  (Incidentally, Randroids will be shocked that according Kant \\"there must be on every count - moral and political as well as economic - a maximum amount of autonomy granted the individual in all areas of his life.\\"  In fact, he didn't design the gas chambers at Auschwitz.)  Even thinkers who seem quite pessimistic - such as Malthaus - have their progress-oriented side.<br />In the founding and early years of America, we see the combination of two types of progressivism - a combination of a secularized version of Puritanism and Enlightenment rationalism.  This deserves at least some of the blame for America's interventionist foreign policy.<br />Nisbet also notes that although a faith in progress has been disastrous in many ways (such as Marxism) it has also been beneficial.  Many of man's achievements have been nurtured by the belief that things can and will get better.<br />This is a fast-paced and exciting overview.  A work that deals with similar topics from a different perspective is Passmore's THE PERFECTIBILITY OF MAN.  Eric Voegelin has a political take on the idea of progress in THE NEW SCIENCE OF POLITICS.a secularized version of Puritanism and Enlightenment rationalism.  This deserves at least some of the blame for America's interventionist foreign policy.  <br />Nisbet also notes that although a faith in progress has been disastrous in many ways (such as Marxism) it has also been beneficial.  Many of man's achievements have been nurtured by the belief that things can and will get better.<br />This is a fast-paced and exciting overview.  A work that deals with similar topics from a different perspective is Passmore's THE PERFECTIBILITY OF MAN.  Eric Voegelin has a political take on the idea of progress in THE NEW SCIENCE OF POLITICS.	2002-06-25
US	52963744	R152G7IP1WM9AB	0945466226	922027993	Education: Free & Compulsory	Books	4	27	28	N	N	Rothbard on Education	Murray Rothbard published this small book in two installments in The Individualist some years ago.  In it Rothbard sets forth his theory of education and how education relates to the state.  <br />Not surprisingly, Rothbard starts with a discussion of human nature and the basic fact of human inequality.  Since people differ in abilities and interests, there will be no one kind of education that is appropriate for all children.  Some children will benefit from an education that prepares them for work relatively early in life, others for a career in the professions.  A system of voluntary education, where parents choose what is best for their children, is the most efficient system and also the most consistent with individual freedom.<br />However, government is the great equalizer and centralizer.  Rather than accept human inequality, it is intent on creating a &quot;one size fits all&quot; approach to education.  As Rothbard shows through an analysis of educational reforms in the US and the world, governments began to create taxpayer funded, compulsory schools in order to indoctrinate children into the ideology of the state.  As the elites became more secularized in the 1800s, government run schools were established to destroy the influence of religion and the church.<br />I can't agree with everything Rothbard says. There are a few unsupported statements (such as his attacks on Protestantism) and gaps in logic, but as usual Rothbard is provocative.	2002-06-15
US	52963744	R53EUJWIAXXDF	0802839800	955181733	Glimpsing the Face of God: The Search for Meaning in the Universe	Books	4	21	22	N	N	Good introduction	There are a great many books that are meant to serve as brief introductions to Christian apologetics.  Generally speaking, I'm not a fan of them.  They tend to be simplistic and contain maudlin conversion stories.  So, I was quite surprised when I came across this new book by Anglican theologian Alister McGrath.  <br />This is an introductory work explaining how the various mysteries of life and the universe point to the existence of God and the truth of the Christian faith.  Take for example the fact that the universe appears to be &quot;fine tuned&quot; for the existence of life.  In addition, why is that the human mind seems capable of explaining the universe in terms of mathematical equations.   The best explanation for this is the existence of a sovereign God.  OK, we've heard all this before, but it's nice to see it in one place.  (There is also a good section on truth, which would be effective in arguing against those who think truth is just a matter of one's perspective, class, or whatever. )<br />Then book isn't very long and contains lots of nice, full-color pictures.  I would say you could easily read it in one or two sittings.  Prof. McGrath has treated these issues in more detail in his work, Intellectuals Don't Need God.	2002-06-04
US	52963744	R28KUNIPXT7GTJ	0910614008	120921621	Planned Chaos	Books	4	20	23	N	N	Good Intro to von Mises	Ludwig von Mises (1881-1973) was the outstanding economist of the twentieth century.  He wrote three of the most important works of social theory in recent memory: The Theory of Money and Credit; Socialism; and Human Action.  In these works, he brilliantly set forth an  \\"Austrian\\" analysis of free enterprise and opposing systems.  <br />In addition to the above-referenced works, von Mises wrote a number of shorter works pitched to a more general audience.  PLANNED CHAOS, which came out in 1947, is one of these.  At that time - and even now - people consider \\"planning\\" to be scientific and modern.  However, as von Mises shows, planning of the economy only leads to chaos, poverty, and violence.  This is seen through a discussion of Marxism, Nazism, Fascism, and New Dealism. <br />One of the best parts of this book is a discussion of the so-called \\"mixed economy.\\" As von Mises shows, an economy with a large amount of government control and intervention is not really mixed.  The government control exists in a sea of freedom.  This might seem like a quibble, but as von Mises demonstrated, a truly socialist economy is impossible because there would be no way to calculate prices.  However, government intervention in the economy causes all sorts of problems which inevitably lead to chaos.  So, ultimately the choice is between laissez faire and statism.<br />In addition to this, there is a good discussion of the economic nature of Naziism and its similarities to Communism.  We often hear that the big difference between Nazism and Communism is that Hitler and his cronies believed in Capitalism.  Of course, this is silly.  Hitler believed in a government controlled economy, even if he left the price system intact.<br />Von Mises defense of Capitalism was based on utilitarian grounds.  For different approaches, see the works of Murray Rothbard and Ayn Rand.	2002-05-27
US	52963744	R39XG1Q25SJQK1	0898708648	474204560	More Paradoxes	Books	3	2	3	N	N	OK	Henri de Lubac wrote two works entitled Paradoxes and Further Paradoxes.  They first were published in 1945 and 1955, and now available in a combined volume published by Ignatius, under the title Paradoxes of Faith.  These works were quite interesting, containing many aphorisms, insights, and meditations on various aspects of Christianity.<br />According to the introduction to More Paradoxes, Cardinal de Lubac gave this final collection of paradoxes  to George Chantraine, S.J. with the instruction &quot;do what you want with it&quot; near the end of his life.  I take from this that Cardinal de Lubac wasn't certain that they should be published.<br />While I enjoyed this work, it isn't on the same level as his previous Paradoxes.  Many of the sections are only quotations from other writers (some being Modernists like Schillebeeckx and others more conservative).  If you aren't aware of the background to the controversy that surrounded the writer, then the quotations aren't particularly insightful.  Nonetheless, there are some astute observations in this work.  The section on Biblical criticism is quite interesting.  For example, it is often said that the early Church invented the importance of the beloved disciple of the fourth Gospel.  I like de Lubac's rejoinder: &quot;Napoleon was admired in the nineteenth century as a great general.    That is why tradition attributed to him the victories at . . . Austerlitz, Jena, Wagram.  There was no point in wondering if . . . it was the reality of these victories that might have assured him the reputation of being a great general.&quot;	2002-05-13
US	52963744	R2IDOJ2LVWNLIT	0898705797	33914316	Ecumenical Jihad: Ecumenism and the Culture War	Books	1	117	169	N	N	Bizarre	Prof. Peter Kreeft teaches in the philosophy department at Boston College, an officially Roman Catholic institution.  A convert to Roman Catholicism, he has written a number of books, many of which are (as is this) published by Ignatius Press, an ostensibly orthodox Roman Catholic publishing house.<br />Prof. Kreeft starts this strange book with a couple of points.  First, the world is in a state of moral decay.  Second, traditional believers in various religions share a fair amount in common concerning moral principles.  Therefore, they should put their theological differences aside and work for a better world.  If Prof. Kreeft had stopped there, he could have written an interesting book on how this might be accomplished.  Instead, the book consists mostly of rambling discussions about the various branches of Christianity, and the dialogue between Christianity and non-Christian religions.<br />By way of background, Vatican II liberalized the Roman Catholic view of non-Christians religions.  Pope John Paul II has liberalized that view further, with an almost entirely positive evaluation of world religions.  Mr. Kreeft extends this pluralism by implying that sincere believers in any religion (or none) are in fact Christians.  For example, \\"even atheists and agnostics, if they are of good will . . . perhaps . . . can be called 'anonymous Christians', as Karl Rahner suggested . . . \\"  [p. 31] \\"Is there . . a `hidden Christ' of Hinduism?  When a pious Moslem practices his islam, his submission, might this be taking place through Christ . . . . I think this is very likely. [p. 156] In fact, Mr. Kreeft speculates that the \\"ultimate reality\\" of Taoists, Buddhist, and Hindus might be the god of Christians. [p. 161] Now, if Taoists, Buddhists, Hindus, atheists and agnostics believe in the Christian God, it is only reasonable to ask what defines Christianity.  Not faith in Christ, but a certain attitude toward reality (seeking \\"truth as an absolute\\" according to Kreeft) separates Christians from non-Christians.  [See, id.]  Mr. Kreeft was quite right, then, to cite the existentialist Rahner.<br />There is one portion of this book that is truly bizarre.  Mr. Kreeft claims to have had an out of body experience while surfing in Hawaii.  During this experience, he \\"soul-surfed\\" and landed on a \\"Heavenly beach.\\" [p. 86] There, he met and spoke with Confucius, Buddha, Mohammed, and Moses.  In the afterlife, all have become pious Roman Catholics.  Nonetheless, Mohamed still teaches (and Kreeft appears to agree) that the Koran is \\"divine revelation.\\" [pp. 103-4] This stuff goes on for twenty-five pages.  Mr. Kreeft purports that his recounting of this ecumenical beach party is in some sense \\"true.\\" [p. 86]  No, I'm not making this up.<br />I've read some strange books before, but this is one of the strangest.  In addition to the dubious theology, it is poorly written, contains no footnotes or an index, and consists of cultural analysis worthy of a third-tier neoconservative or second-hand follower of Ayn Rand.  If this is the new age of ecumenicalism, give me the Thirty Years War.	2002-05-04
US	52963744	RAO0FGF9NLUKI	0945466234	434143344	Egalitarianism as a Revolt Against Nature and Other Essays	Books	5	36	36	N	N	A Rothbard Reader	Murray Rothbard was one of the most important thinkers in recent memory.  He made substantial contributions to economics, political theory, social theory, history and cultural criticism.  Unfortunately, there is no \\"Rothbard Reader\\" that gives the reader an overview of his contributions to all these fields.<br />Nonetheless, this collection of Rothbard's essays - which came out in 1974 - is probably the best place to start if you want to get an overview of Rothbard's contributions, at least in the areas of political theory, social theory, and (some) cultural criticism.  (The second edition appears to be identical to the first edition, except that it contains a brief 1991 \\"postscript\\" by Rothbard and a useful introduction by Dr. David Gordon.)<br />The title essay - Egalitarianism as a Revolt Against Nature - is a seminal essay.  Politicians love to lecture us on the supposed equality of men; however, as Rothbard shows, it is inequality that is fundamental.  The leftist drive for equality is contrary to human nature.   Rothbard picks up this theme again in Freedom, Inequality, Primitivism, and the Division of Labor.  He shows that the drive for equality is a direct attack on the division of labor.  As such, it will only serve to impoverish everyone (rich and poor alike).<br />This collection also contains two outstanding essays on the state: The Anatomy of the State; and War, Peace, and the State.  In the second, Rothbard makes a strong case for peace and against weapons of mass destruction.<br />There are at least three other collections of Rothbard's works available. The first -- Making Economic Sense -- is a collection of short essays on economics.  The second -- The Irrepressible Rothbard -- is a collection of his essays in the Rothbard-Rockwell Report which focus on cultural criticism.  So, if you combine these works with Egalitarianism, you get a \\"reader\\" that contains 1190 pages - and you still haven't hit Rothbard the historian!  That shows the tremendous breadth of his scholarship.  The third is The Logic of Action I and II.  These were published after his death and contain two or three of the essays in Egalitariansm and some of his later essays.  In addition, they are more focused on Rothbard the economist.<br />But the best advice is that of Dr. Gordon: get everything you can get your hands on by Rothbard and von Mises.	2002-04-30
US	52963744	R23XI6YTQQU8K7	094546617X	3708065	The Case Against the Fed	Books	5	101	108	N	N	One Nation Under the Fed	Ever since the creation of the Federal Reserve Board (\\"the Fed\\"), the American economy has been subject to a cycle of boom and bust.  Most recently, we saw a bubble in technology stocks in general and telecommunication stocks in particular, fueled by the creation of credit.  But no one wants to blame the culprit -- the Fed.  Why has an institution that was created allegedly to bring stability to the economy caused such havoc? Equally importantly, why is an institution that has so much power so unaccountable?<br />Murray Rothbard (1926-1995) provides in this book an outstanding discussion of money, banking, the Fed, and U.S. monetary policy.  As usual, Rothbard sees the \\"big picture.\\"  There was no need for a central bank, however the Banksters  in combination with Big Business and Big Intellectuals -- pushed for the creation of the Fed.  Rothbard's discussion of the battles between the Rockefellers and the House of Morgan is fascinating.  (See his Wall Street, Banks and American Foreign Policy for a more elaborate discussion of this great \\"conspiracy\\" in U.S. history.)   <br />The foundation for this work is Austrian economic theory.  Through fractional reserve banking  which is little more than legal counterfeiting  banks are permitted to print new money, thus creating inflation.  Yet the central insight of Austrian theory is that this creation of money doesn't simply increase prices, but distorts the cycle of production as it works its way through the economy.  This creates the boom and bust cycles that have plagued our economy.<br />For a more detailed discussion of many of the issues raised in this book, the interested reader should consult Rothbard's The Mystery of Banking.	2002-04-15
US	52963744	RN99VU5IK921Q	0930073029	156045134	For a New Liberty: The Libertarian Manifesto	Books	4	8	9	N	N	Essential Introduction	Murray Rothbard was the twentieth century's leading advocate of libertarianism.  Rothbard was trained in the Austrian school of economics, but was also a defender of a natural law approach to politics and ethics.  Unlike most members of the Austrian school, Rothbard was an advocate of anarcho-capitalism, that is, society without a state.<br />This book represents a solid introduction to the theory and practice of libertarianism.  Rothbard presents chapter after chapter dealing with how a stateless society would address all sorts of problems: education, foreign policy, law, and the environment, just to name a few.  One of the books best chapters is &quot;The State,&quot; which represents and outstanding introduction to Rothbard's thought.  Take, for example, the following: &quot;[T]he intellectual's livelihood in the free market is generally non too secure; for the intellectual, like everyone else in the market, must depend on the values and choices of his fellow men . . . . The State . . . is willing to offer the intellectuals a warm, secure, and permanent berth in its apparatus, a secure income, and the panoply of prestige.&quot;  Another excellent chapter concerns the business cycle, in which Rothbard explains the boom and bust cycle of the U.S. economy in terms of Austrian monetary theory.<br />Of course, this work is not a substitute for reading Rothbard's more advanced works.  In this respect, I highly recommend: Man, Economy, and State; Power and Market; The Ethics of Liberty; and The Logic of Action I &amp; II.	2002-03-25
US	52963744	R1027RQ57LI7HP	019513818X	419207680	By the Hand of Mormon: The American Scripture that Launched a New World Religion	Books	5	104	132	N	N	Excellent	The Book of Mormon is a curious work.  Jos. Smith, Jr., founder of the Mormon movement (whose largest branch is the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints in Utah), claimed to receive it by divine revelation.  It professes to be the history of ancient inhabitants of the Americas, who came to the New World centuries before Christ.<br />Upon first blush, the Book of Mormon seems to be little more than a pale imitation of the Bible written in exaggerated King James English (by the time your done with it, you won't want to hear the phrase &quot;and it came to pass&quot; again).  Nonetheless, the book is quite complicated and appears unlikely to be the work of the generally unlettered Jos. Smith.  What is most interesting about the Book is its complex nature.  Opponents of the Book have had a hard time finding internal inconsistencies in it, although it has a fair number of anachronisms. <br />Although the LDS Church has produced competent apologists (such as the brilliant B.H. Roberts), the age of modern Mormons apologetics began with Hugh Nibley and has continued to the present with scholars associated with FARMS, now part of BYU.  For example, while Jos. Smith believed that the events narrated in the Book of Mormon concerned the territory covered by North and South America, contemporary Mormon scholarship asserts that its events took place in a relatively small area of Central America.  There is no archaeological evidence to support the authenticity of the Book, but it does appear to have numerous parallels to ancient Middle Eastern works.<br />Prof. Givens, who is professor of English at the University of Richmond, has written a comprehensive book about the Book of Mormon.  It isn't a commentary on the Book of Mormon, but a background work on the role of the Book of Mormon in the Latter-day Saints Church, its authorship, and the controversy about it &quot;revelatory significance&quot; (i.e., whether or not it's inspired).  It's fairly dense, but it I'm not awareof a work that provides such useful background information to anyone who wants to study the Book of Mormon or who has some familiarity with it.	2002-03-16
US	52963744	R2NFWSMN4H46TK	0195021770	259622082	Twilight of Authority (Galaxy Books)	Books	5	55	55	N	N	Brilliant, As Expected	Robert Nisbet was without a doubt one of the most creative and original thinkers in recent memory.  His expertise was in sociology, but his works concerned history, politics and, more broadly, what might be called the history of ideas. <BR>    <BR>In 1975 - at the end of the Watergate Era - Nisbet came out with the TWILIGHT OF AUTHORITY, a work which contained for the most part material published in journals from 1969-1974.  These were crucial times in American history, and Nisbet's perspective is invaluable.<br />As Nisbet indicates, modern society is marked by the expansion of the state and the decline in intermediary institutions.  As government gets bigger, it becomes more corrupt.  Lies became a way of life.  Contrary to some conservatives, Nisbet didn't see Watergate is a minor scandal blown out of proportion by the leftist media.   More than anything it showed how corrupt and venial government had become.  It's now often forgotten how Americans were shocked at the vulgar language on the Nixon tapes.  Of course, as Nisbet says, Kennedy and Johnson paved the way for Nixon.  As government gets bigger, intermediate institutions get less powerful and lose influence over people's lives.  <br />As usual, Nisbet is illuminating on any topic with which he deals.  For example: the self-destruction of the Roman Catholic Church at Vatican II, the relationship between war and democracy, the decline in influence of the university, the takeover of science by the state, and even popular culture.<br />This edition contains an excellent introduction by Prof. R. Perrin.  Unfortunately, it doesn't contain an index.	2002-03-04
US	52963744	R2X350U4I2EM7Y	0310213266	572569011	Studies in Doctrine	Books	4	6	9	N	N	Good Introductions	Prof. Alister McGrath is a moderately conservative theologian and an ordained minister in the Church of England.  He has written a large number of works, some of which are quite technical and others which are more introductory in nature.  The best thing about his introductory writings is that they don't presuppose a knowledge of the subject, but at the same time they aren't simplistic.  <br />This work is a collection of four smaller introductory works by Prof. McGrath: (1) UNDERSTANDING DOCTRINE; (2) UNDERSTANDING THE TRINITY; (3) UNDERSTANDING JESUS; and (4) JUSTIFICATION BY FAITH.  I think UNDERSTANDING DOCTRINE is the best because it makes a persuasive case for why doctrine -- and not just feelings -- matter.<br />One problem I have with this work, like some of Prof. McGrath's works, is that he frequently discusses Karl Barth (1886-1968) the well-known Swiss Reformed theologian.  Barth was the principal player within the school known as &quot;neo-orthodoxy.&quot;  To some he is a towering writer of a more or less Evangelical bent, to others he is something of a modernist.  Some traditional Calvinists, such as Gordon Clark and Cornelius Van Til, wrote works criticizing Barth from the Calvinist perspective.  I'm not competent to say how faithful Barth was to the Reformed tradition, but Prof. McGrath owes it to his readers to point out that there is quite a controversy about this.  Unfortunately he doesn't.   (See, e.g., McGrath, HISTORICAL THEOLOGY, 238-39.)  For a discussion of Barth from an admirer of Van Til, see John Frame: CORNELIUS VAN TIL: AN ANALYSIS OF HIS THOUGHT, 353-69.<br />This book isn't a &quot;mini&quot; systematic theology.  There are all sorts of important topics that Prof. McGrath doesn't discuss (such as ecclesiology and eschatology).  Nonetheless, taken as a whole, it is a good introduction to Christianity from a Protestant perspective.	2002-02-24
US	52963744	R87V1NLRCWHDE	0836207505	252250174	Power and Market: Government and the Economy	Books	4	13	13	N	N	Almost 5 Stars	Power and Market is Murray Rothbard's seminal critique of government intervention in the economy.  Originally meant to be part of his magisterial Man, Economy, and State, it was published separately some years later.  (For a discussion of this, see Justin Raimondo's An Enemy of the State: The Life of Murray N. Rothbard at 189-194.)<br />Unlike most Austrian school economists, Rothbard was an anarchist.  In fact, he was the twentieth century's seminal figure in anarcho-capitalist thought.  This means that Rothbard thought that not only roads and the like, but also national defense and courts could be provided without a state.  (See his Society Without a State in the Libertarian Reader, ed. Machan, for a succinct presentation of his views.)<br />Rothbard starts out this work with a discussion of various types of government intervention in the economy.  He divides them into three types: autistic (violent crime), triangular (tariffs, wage and price controls, licensing, etc.)and binary intervention (taxation and government spending).  Following this is a discussion of antimarket ethics.  There isn't an aspect of government intervention in the economy that escapes Rothbard's scalpel.  As a whole, this is certainly an outstanding book.  Take Rothbard's discussion of taxation.  Many &quot;right wing&quot; economists support the sales tax on the ground that it doesn't discourage savings and investment.  But it reduces people's income and thereby reduces savings and investment.  It is a tax on income. [pp. 92-93.]<br />My main problem with this work is the sometimes simplistic discussion of complex problems and the leaps in logic.  (I've discussed this is my review of The Ethics of Liberty.)  Take for example the issue of immigration laws.  &quot;The advocate of immigration laws . . . really fears, therefore, is not so much immigration as any population growth.  To be consistent, therefore, he would have to advocate compulsory birth control, to slow down the rate of population growth desired by individual parents.&quot; [p. 55.] Even in light of the entire 2 page discussion of immigration laws, I don't see how this follows.  In this (and some other areas) the discussion is narrowly economic.  Aren't there good reasons to restrict the type of immigrants?  For example, if you have a society that is devoted to individual freedom and responsibility, isn't it wise to prevent immigration from those countries that don't support freedom?<br />If you want to know the essence of Rothbard, purchase this work; Man, Economy, and State; The Ethics of Liberty; and the Logic of Action.	2002-02-20
US	52963744	RHFEBAQE4SRKM	0945466323	849549924	Man, Economy, and State	Books	5	24	28	N	N	Brilliant	Murray Rothbard was one of the most prolific writers in the libertarian tradition in the 20th century.  His published work covered political theory, social theory, history, and economics.  I've read most of Rothbard's books and consider Man, Economy, and State to be his greatest achievement.  <br />As an introductory matter, Rothbard studied under Ludwig von Mises, this century's premier Austrian economist.  Man, Economy, and State is a basic treatise on economics, drawing on the insights of the Austrian school.  It starts with the fundamentals of human action, and then goes on to discuss prices, production, monopoly theory, money, and other matters.  This work is  lengthy and some parts are quite theoretical, but that shouldn't stop even the tyro in economics from reading it.  Rothbard starts with \\"Crusoe economics,\\" that is with the individual actor.  From this, he introduces the reader to the basics of economic reasoning.  Only after this foundation is constructed does Rothbard discuss more complex issues.  If you want to learn to \\"think like an economist\\" this book is a great place to start.  I'm no economist -- and some of this work was a little beyond me (although I like to think I could have mastered it if I had enough free time) -- but even those chapters that are the most theoretical contain numerous insights into more \\"practical\\" matters.<br />Unlike von Mises and most other Austrians, Rothbard was an anarchist.  His opposition to government led to some unusual positions.  For example, he viewed patents as contrary to the free market. [p. 652-60.]  He also taught that blackmail would be legal in a free society. [p. 443 n. 49.]  I'm not sure I agree with these conclusions, but they are always presented in a thought-provoking manner.	2002-02-11
US	52963744	R2UXFS904NO9RO	0813210151	891120868	Progress and Religion: An Historical Inquiry (Worlds of Christopher Dawson)	Books	5	39	39	N	N	Brilliant	Christopher Dawson (1889-1970) was one the premier Roman Catholic thinkers of this century.  Dawson's central concern was the relationship between religion and culture.  Dawson drew on an extensive knowledge of history, philosophy, sociology and theology to illuminate this connection from the beginnings of history to the modern age.<br />Although some of his books remain in print, Catholic University of America Press is printing new editions of his most important works.  This edition of Progress &amp; Religion contains a forward by Dawson's daughter Christina (1922-2001) and an introduction by the well-known sociologist Mary Douglas.<br />Progress &amp; Religion, which came out in 1929, is perhaps Dawson's most important work.  Dawson argues that at the center of any great civilization is its religion, and this religion animates and gives it a sense of purpose.  This is particularly the case with Christianity.  &quot;[T]he victory of the Church in the 4th century was not, as so many modern critics would have us believe, the natural culmination of the religious evolution of the ancient world.  It was, on the contrary, a violent interruption of that process which forced European civilization out of its own orbit . . . .&quot; [p. 126.] The Western Church vivified society by breaking with oriental spiritualism and showing that &quot;human intelligence . . . finds its natural activity in the sphere of the sensible and particular.&quot; [p. 137.]<br />It would make an interesting study to compare the work of Dawson with that of Robert Nisbet.  Like Nisbet, Dawson was learned in the area of sociology and drew upon an extensive knowledge of sociologists such as Le Play, Comte and Durkheim.  They both saw Rousseau as one the chief villains.  As Dawson said, Rousseau effected a &quot;new Reformation&quot; and was the ideological godfather of the French Revolution.  They both wrote extensively on the idea of progress.  However, whereas Nisbet was  &quot;pious skeptic&quot; (according to Prof. Gottfried), Dawson was a believer and his work contains a greater sense of urgency. Indeed, some of his writings between the wars were quite prophetic.	2002-01-28
US	52963744	R3NN630WP6WATJ	0875790321	566514775	Old Testament and Related Studies (The collected works of Hugh Nibley)	Books	3	13	14	N	N	Not Nibley's Best	Hugh Nibley is widely considered one of the top scholars that the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints (the Mormons) has produced.  During his long career, he has written extensively on ancient history, Scripture, the Book of Mormon, comparative religion and other subjects.  Prof. Nibley has been praised by non-Mormon as well as Mormon scholars, including some Evangelical Protestants, who consider him Mormonism's best apologist.  (Incidentally, there are some scholars within the LDS Church that question certain aspects of his methodology and his use of sources.)<br />Fortunately, the Foundation for Ancient Research and Mormon Studies (which is associated with Brigham Young University) is publishing his collected works.<br />Volume One - Old Testament and Related Studies - contains a number of articles, essays and speeches that Prof. Nibley gave on the Old Testament.  Some of the material is out-dated, but there is value in most of the pieces. There are interesting observations on the limits of archeology, evolution, the Mormon cosmogony, and other matters.  Some of this work is apologetic in nature.  Prof. Nibley seeks to show that Mormonism is the truest and oldest religion.  Drawing on his knowledge of world religions, he argues that they contain similar myths and stories, thereby indicating that Mormonism -- with its ordinances and rituals -  is the most &quot;comprehensive&quot; of all religions.  (This attempt to find parallels reminds me of such scholars as James George Frazer.  As one scholar put it famously, the &quot;parallelmania&quot; found in this type of literature has a tendency to get a little out of control.)<br />If this had been the first book of Prof. Nibley's I had read, I think I would have been a bit disappointed.  There are too many generalizations and jabs at other scholars.  Fortunately, I started with The Ancient State (Volume 10) and Temple and Cosmos (Volume 12), which are both outstanding.  I recommend that non-Mormon readers start there.	2002-01-21
US	52963744	R18460UVMNGNDP	0816615268	597590305	Conservatism: Dream and Reality (Concepts in Social Thought)	Books	5	20	22	N	N	What is Conservatism?	In this slim volume - not much more than 100 pages long - Robert Nisbet provides perhaps the best discussion of what the conservative &quot;ideology&quot; is all about.  (I have never really understood the Kirkian &quot;conservatism isn't an ideology&quot; argument.)  As Nisbet says, he will deal with the &quot;pre-political,&quot; which is the strata of conservative essentials, although he doesn't neglect the &quot;political strata.&quot;<br />Nisbet's approach to conservatism will be familiar to those who have read his other works.  Chapter 1 concerns the birth of modern conservatism.  It begins with Burke and his reaction to the French Revolution.  (Burke, like Nisbet, saw Rousseau as the chief architect of the French Revolution.) It is further developed in its interaction with (and often reaction to) the Industrial Revolution.    Chapter 2 (which takes up almost half of the book) is the most important chapter.  It is entitled &quot;the dogmatics of conservatism&quot; and explains the various conservative essentials - property, religion, anti-egalitarianism, diffused authority.  Chapter 3 - &quot;consequences of conservatism&quot; - treats some of the broader sociological and historical aspects of conservatism.  Nisbet returns to some familiar territory, such as the birth of sociology in the 1800s by conservatives such as Le Play, historical writings on the Middle Ages, and the idea of progress.  The final chapter - &quot;prospects of conservatism&quot; offers some shrewd comments on the state of contemporary conservatism (up to the date of the book's publication, 1986).<br />As another review said, this books will be an eye-opener to many people.  Those who see conservatism as an ill-defined mixture of free enterprise, conservative religion, and libertarian-style individualism will be surprised by some of what Nisbet says.<br />This book covers a lot of territory in a few pages.  Readers who want to examine some more recent works on conservatism (and which emphasize different strands of conservatism) should examine the works of Justin Raimundo (Reclaiming the American Right, in particular), Paul Gottfried (The Conservative Movement) and Samuel Francis (Beautiful Losers).	2002-01-20
US	52963744	R25G1HOR5EQASI	0465079520	463491322	Sociological Tradition Pap	Books	5	13	14	N	N	Learned	In THE SOCIOLOGICAL TRADITION, Robert Nisbet describes what he considers the &quot;golden age&quot; of sociology, the period of 1830-1900.  As Nisbet tells it, the Enlightenment wasn't much concerned with sociological themes.  Contract and reason, not community and tradition were central.  However, the excesses of the French Revolution and the reaction to it, gave birth to a number of searching critiques.  Some of the most important were done by conservatives such as  as Burke, Tocqueville, Maistre and Bonald.  Following these thinkers were scholars such as Le Play, Durkheim, Tonnies and Weber.  Although not all were &quot;conservatives&quot; in the more traditional sense of the term, their thought was imbued with a sort of conservatism and anti-individualism.   In fact, August Comte, widely considered the founder of sociology and the man who first used the term (as well as the term &quot;positivism&quot;), had nothing but contempt for the philosophes in spite of the radical nature of much of his thought.<br />The organization of this work is unique.  Rather than discussing this period in from the perceptive of its leading thinkers or schools, Nisbet describes the major themes of sociology: community, authority, status, the sacred, and alienation. Nisbet calls these the &quot;unit-ideas&quot; of sociology. Although this is a novel way to organize a book, Nisbet's approach helps the reader see the similarities and differences in the various thinkers.<br />One of the best aspects of this book is Nisbet's often lengthy quotes from the key thinkers.  I would say a good 15 percent, if not more of the book, is taken up with such quotes.  Although this might be a bit unusual for a scholarly work, it is very helpful to the reader who (like myself) has minimal knowledge of the thinkers involved.  This edition also contains a new introduction by Nisbet in which he surveys the reviews of the work.	2002-01-08
US	52963744	R3VYWRGIT6AF20	0895261901	148709607	Bias: A CBS Insider Exposes How the Media Distort the News	Books	4	13	16	N	N	None Dare Call It Liberalism	OK, we all know that the media is liberally biased.  But every once in a while it's good to see someone confirm that fact, particularly if he is a member of the media himself, and a liberal to boot.  Bernard Goldberg was a reporter for years at CBS when, in 1996, he wrote an editorial in the Wall Street Journal telling everyone that the media was liberally biased.  Although we all knew that, Goldberg got the libs at CBS, particularly the sainted Dan Rather, rather upset.  <br />BIAS doesn't start off too well.  Mr. Goldberg is upset at &quot;The Dan&quot; (as he calls him) and apparently wants to settle some scores.  His unfortunate comparisons of certain media big wigs to the mob aren't particularly helpful, but the book improves as it goes along.  Goldberg discusses the liberal slant that the media presents many issues from, including homelessness, AIDS, day care, and &quot;diversity.&quot;  He provides the results of his research and also interesting anecdotal evidence from his own experience in reporting these stories that show just how liberal the media is.  As Goldberg says, much of the bias in the media isn't deliberate.  Just about everyone in the media is left of center, so stories are reported in such a way that makes the leftist view &quot;normal&quot; and the conservative view &quot;controversial.&quot;  But on some issues, such as reporting on day care and racial matters, the bias is so overwhelming that it must be a deliberate choice by reporters. For example, the media elites are particularly close to the feminists and certainly aren't going to discuss the dark side of parents shipping their children off to day care.<br />In addition to some of the gratuitous personal attacks, my other complaints about the book are the lack of footnotes and the at-times &quot;gung ho&quot; writing style.	2002-01-01
US	52963744	R2BAJZH8C8REAH	1558150587	502384321	The Quest for Community: A Study in the Ethics of Order & Freedom	Books	5	59	60	N	N	Brilliant	Robert Nisbet (1913-1996) was one of the most important conservative thinkers in the twentieth century and this work, The Quest for Community, was perhaps his most influential. It helped spark a Renaissance in conservative thought in America, appearing around the same time as Voegelin's The New Science of Politics, Buckley's God and Man at Yale, and Kirk's The Conservative Mind. [Brad Stone, Robert Nisbet, p. xvi.]<br />Modern man craves community and order. As Nisbet says, modern society encourages a sense of alienation and a loss of community. Nisbet brilliantly describes how modern literature, politics and religion bears witness to this sense of alienation. If man can't find community in mediating institutions such as the church and the family, he will find it in totalitarian movements. &quot;The greatest appeal of the totalitarian party, Marxist or other, lies in its capacity to provide a sense of moral coherence and communal membership to those who have become, to one degree or another, victims of the sense of exclusion from the ordinary channels of belonging in society.&quot; [p. 32.] War itself becomes a means of escape from the &quot;vast impersonal spaces of modern society.&quot; [p. 34.]<br />In addition to describing alienation in modern life, Nisbet analyzes the ideological origins of man's loss of community. Although many paved the way for this state of affairs, the chief villain was Rousseau. Rousseau sees the individual and the state as the two most basic entities, and it is the state that reconciles the conflicts between men and within man himself. [pp. 125-28.] The state &quot;frees&quot; man by destroying his allegiance to intermediate social institutions, thereby freeing him for service to the General Will.<br />This is the most important work I read in 2001. I would say that it ranks with Prof. Martin van Creveld's masterly The Rise and Decline of the State as one of the most important works on the theory of the state in print. Coincidentally, Ireviewed that work exactly one year ago today.	2001-12-25
US	52963744	R3NPTSYDJFFC07	0801022908	558553868	Most Moved Mover: A Theology of God's Openness (The Didsbury Lectures)	Books	2	78	110	N	N	God, the senstive man	There is a trend on the fringes of Evangelicalism known as \\"open theism.\\"  Perhaps its best-known expositor is Prof. Clark Pinnock of McMaster Divinity College in Ontario.  Open theism is, roughly speaking, somewhere in-between classical theism and process theism.  While open theists affirm the doctrine of creation ex nihilo, they reject that claims that God has exhasutive foreknowledge of the future (omniscience), that God is impassible (incapable of suffering), immutable, without emotions, and outside of time.  According to open theists, these ideas are the result of the influence of Greek philosophy on Christian theology.  While classical theists take Scriptural language concerning God's repenting or changing his mind as anthropomorphisms, open theists take them as literal descriptions of how God's being and his interaction with the world.  Not surprisingly, open theists are almost exclusively Arminians (although traditional Arminians oppose open theists as much as Calvinists).  <br />There are some good things about this book.  It is reasonably well-written (although it could be more compact and better organized).  Also, it contains a good overview of the issue, presenting the opinions of both supporters of open theism and its opponents.  <br />My main objection to this book is that, like some of other of Prof. Pinnock's writings, it seems to be based on what Prof. Pinnock would prefer to believe, rather than what is Scriptural.  [See x-xi.] We now have a \\"sensitive God.\\"  Indeed God is just the type of sensitive man a modern woman is looking for - he \\"risks,\\" wants a relationship based on \\"love\\" and not \\"control\\" [p. 45].  He \\"restore[s] the relationship and rebuild[s] the trust.\\" [p. 46.]  He \\"invites us to participate with him in a loving dialogue. . . \\" [p. 4.]  He is \\"sensitive to experiences.\\" [p. 59.]  He is \\"vulnerable.\\"  [p. 92.]  (In this respect, see the interesting comments of Leon Podles, The Church Impotent: The Feminization of Christianity, p. 126.)<br />In addition, Prof. Pinnock fails to discuss in any detail the passages in Scripture that contradict his position.  One searches in vain for an exegesis of passages such as 1 John 3:20 and Heb. 4:13 concerning God's knowledge of all events, much less passages such as Ephesians 1:11 that teach predestination.  The relationship between God's foreknowledge and predestination is a complex issue.  Unless one wants to take the position of certain Calvinists (such as Gordon Clark) that God creates sin and evil, then it is hard to deny that God has given men at least a small amount of freedom, but I think Prof. Pinnock errs to far in the opposite direction.	2001-12-18
US	52963744	R1TPBXH4GLNW16	0802811213	279635094	Christianity and Liberalism	Books	5	21	22	N	N	Nothing New Under the Sun	There are a great many books one can read explaining traditional Christian theology, but if you are looking for a book that explains why traditional doctrine matters, then there is no better place to start than this gem by J. Gresham Machen, published in 1923.<br />Machen, then professor at Princeton Seminary, was writing at a time when liberalism was making headway into traditional Protestant churches.  This liberalism denied the historical accuracy of the Scriptures and the Divinity of Christ, among other things.  Of course, it did that while at the same time saying that it &quot;really&quot; believed these things, but just expressed in a different way.  Machen exposes the agenda of liberalism quite brilliantly.<br />What is funny is that this liberalism isn't much different than that advocated today.  For example, Machen said that it tended toward pantheism.  &quot;In modern liberalism, on the other hand, this sharp distinction between God and the world is broken down, and the name `God' is applied to the mighty world process itself. . . . It is strange how such a representation can be regarded as anything new, for as a matter of fact, pantheism is a very ancient phenomenon.&quot; [p. 63.]  This was years before &quot;process theology&quot; became the vogue.<br />A particularly interesting part of this work are Machen's political insights.  He saw clearly the dangers of democratic conformism and brilliantly applied it to contemporary trends to exalt public education.  &quot;The truth is that the materialistic paternalism . . . if allowed to go unchecked, will rapidly make of America one huge `Main Street,' where spiritual adventure will be discouraged and democracy will be regarded as consisting in the reduction of all mankind to the proportions of the narrowest and least gifted of the citizens.&quot; [pp. 14-15.]	2001-11-27
US	52963744	RONA5LJPV08F2	0765800888	624392378	Democracy--The God That Failed: The Economics and Politics of Monarchy, Democracy, and Natural Order	Books	5	111	132	N	N	Fascinating	Dr. Hans-Herman Hoppe is a professor of economics and fellow at the Ludwig von Mises Institute.  It is obvious from reading this work that his primary intellectual debt is to Ludwig von Mises and Murray Rothbard.  Prof. Hoppe, following Rothbard, advocates anarcho-capitalism, or, as he calls it, &quot;natural order.&quot;  He is not a monarchist, but shows the many advantages of monarchy over democracy.<br />As Prof. Hoppe tells us, both Rothbard and von Mises, although by no means supporting most of the changes in the twentieth century, held a generally favorable opinion of the change from monarchy to democracy.  However, Prof. Hoppe shows that this transition was not at all favorable to the protection of civil rights and restricting the growth of government.  In fact, just the opposite happened.  Contemporaneous with this change, we have seen a decline in morals and individual responsibility.  This is largely explained by Prof. Hoppe's fascinating discussion of time preference to democratic and monarchical governments.  A monarchical government is more likely to enact policies similar to what an individual, unfettered by government, would do.  Take for example immigration.  A monarch, who in some sense &quot;owns&quot; the country, will establish an immigration policy that reflects his country's need for new citizens.  He will ask what the immigrant can contribute to the economy, whether the person has good values, and whether he is likely to become a public charge.  The democratic government will permit massive immigration, more concerned with social engineering and expanding the pool of voters who will support the welfare state.  He also shows that, contrary to many supposed conservatives and libertarians, &quot;free trade&quot; doesn't required &quot;free immigration.&quot; <br />This is one of the most interesting books I've read in a while.  It's hard to summarize all the valuable insights of Prof. Hoppe.  In particular, his demonstration that a libertarian philosophy is most conducive to traditional morality was quite persuasive.  I didn't completely agree with his attack on Patrick Buchanan and Samuel Francis, which I think exaggerated some of the least libertarian aspects of their thought.	2001-11-10
US	52963744	RXUQMBU4RW2G0	0679640509	459507287	Communism: A History (Modern Library Chronicles)	Books	5	20	38	N	N	Evil: A History	Arnold Toynbee once said that modern man, in making a pact with Communism, never stopped to ask whether he was making a pact with Christ or Satan.  This sad fact has never been better shown than in this enjoyable book by Professor Richard Pipes.<br />In 160 well-written pages, Prof. Pipes gives us the history of Communism from its intellectual origins to its fizzling out in the late Twentieth Century.  This book mostly concerns Communism as a political movement told from the focal point of the Soviet Union.  While this is a weakness, such an approach is dictated by the limited space.<br />Although Prof. Pipes doesn't deny that the West overreacted in some cases to the threat of Communism, there can be no doubt that the Cold War was the responsibility of the Soviet Union.  From the invasion of Poland in 1920 to the invasion of Afghanistan to 1979, the Soviet Union was bent on expansion.  Though the Soviets at times held back in their support of Communist movements in other countries, it was never to build &quot;socialism in one country,&quot; but in the hope that such concessions would help the long-run expansion of communism.  Both the left and the libertarian right (e.g., Murray Rothbard) were flat out wrong in denying the expansionary nature of the Soviet Union.  In fact, Stalin signed the non-aggression pact with Germany in 1939 hoping that Hitler would direct his fury at the West.  Once the West was bogged down in a World War I style war, Stalin would invade.  (Prof. Pipes doesn't discuss the more revisionist view that Stalin was planning to invade the West in 1941.)<br />The human costs of utopia were immense.  85-100 million people died as a direct result of communism -- more than World War I and II combined.	2001-11-10
US	52963744	R2HQRX8G9KP8BD	0830814140	530273357	Jesus Christ: Savior & Lord (Christian Foundations/Donald G. Bloesch)	Books	3	3	4	N	N	OK	This is the 4th of a projected 7 volume systematic theology. My main criticism is that Bloesch tries to do too much. The book is only 250 pages (without end notes) and he discusses both the person and work of Christ. Some of the discussion is too short. He really doesn't have the space to discuss many relevant Biblical citations. The book's chapter on the finality of Christ is excellent though. The reader might want to supplement this with Oden's The Word of Life or O'Collins' Christology.	2001-10-30
US	52963744	R1MN2CBVMCTZWJ	0830814124	435929048	Holy Scripture: Revelation, Inspiration & Interpretation (Christian Foundations)	Books	4	9	12	N	N	Readable	I enjoyed this book -- part 2 of a 7 part series on systematic theology. Bloesch represents a &quot;progressive evangelical&quot; approach and sees inerrancy limited to the overall intention of Scripture. I would have appreciated a greater discussion of the Warfield/Hodge approach to Scripture. While Bloesch argues that Scripture does not teach historical inerrancy, Warfield makes a good case that it does -- based on Scripture's own teaching. Bloesch should spend a little more time on traditional arguments. There is just too much concern with Barth, Brunner, Bultmann (a whole chapter!), etc.	2001-10-30
US	52963744	RXDAZO3AXNLN6	0830814132	354286480	God the Almighty: Power, Wisdom, Holiness, Love (Christian Foundations)	Books	4	1	5	N	N	Quite Good	This is the third volume of Bloesch's projected seven part systematic theology. He offers a useful discussion of some of the newer theories of God such as those of process theology. His own ideas are basically orthodox, although he seeks to correct the alleged Helenistic influences on the classical doctrine of God.	2001-10-30
US	52963744	R26GHJKGARDCHS	0830814116	298826097	A Theology of Word & Spirit: Authority & Method in Theology (Christian Foundations)	Books	4	1	2	N	N	An Excellent Series	Bloesch's Christian Foundations is an excellent series (5 out a projected 7 published thus far), based on a \\"progressive evangelical\\" approach. He relies a lot on Barth & Brunner, which will stick in some Evangelicals' craw. This book is my favorite since it does an excellent job of discussing rationalists like Clark, Van Til, Geisler, etc. from a (somewhat) Calvinist perspective.	2001-10-30
US	52963744	R2H1165MAX2BAP	0452011841	411749686	The Return of the Primitive: The Anti-Industrial Revolution	Books	3	11	22	N	N	By what right?	In 1971, Ayn Rand published a collection of her essays called &quot;the New Left.&quot;  She edited this collection herself based on a suggestion from a fan.<BR>       <BR>Peter Schwartz, a second-hander at the Ayn Rand Institute, came out with a new version of this work.  He kept all of Rand's original essays, added one new Rand essay, and added three of his own.  The most obvious question is: by what right does Mr. Schwartz re-edit someone else's work in order to get some of his stuff in print?  Since Rand is in this case the victim, and I don't want to give the sanction of the victim (so to speak), I'll review this work solely in reference to the original Rand articles, ignoring Mr.Schwartz's &quot;contributions&quot; in my ranking and comments.<br />I'm generally critical of Rand the philosopher.  However, she was a reasonably intelligent person.  Her greatest weakness was her tendency to speculate on historical and psychological matters which she knew little about.  However, her &quot;creativity&quot; was something of a benefit when it came to cultural criticism.  In fact, I would say that she had any number of interesting and insightful things to say about the state of culture.  Her article on the &quot;Free Speech Movement&quot; in Berkeley is a gem.  Her comments on Woodstock are good as well, although she is given to a bit of exaggeration (e.g., Kant is the &quot;first hippy&quot;).  And in her article &quot;Racism,&quot; she courageously came out against the Civil Rights Act of 1964, which violated private property rights.  (It has even been used by the federal courts to uphold regulations in the area of &quot;sexual harassment&quot; although the law on its face has nothing to due with sexual harassment.)  The &quot;Age of Envy&quot; contains a withering critique of feminism, but I wonder how Rand could consistently oppose this movement based on her presuppositions.	2001-10-28
US	52963744	R3M7LZJL7UIUB5	1560003685	676342108	The Role of Religion in History	Books	2	5	22	N	N	Not Worth the Money	The late Ayn Rand developed a philosophy which she called \\"Objectivism.\\"  As Mr. Scott Ryan has shown, the foundation of this philosophy is not \\"reason\\" or \\"objective reality\\" but the denial of God in order to make man his own god.  Objectivists dismiss all religious beliefs (other than their own) with pejorative terms such as \\"mysticism,\\" \\"irrationalism\\" and denounce its advocates as \\"witch doctors.\\"  Indeed Rand, a master of her own \\"argument from intimidation,\\" said that religion teaches \\"the damnation of life and the worship of death.\\" [For the New Intellectual, p. 18.]<br /><br />Dr. George Walsh, himself an Objectivist philosopher (although not always allied with \\"official Objectivism\\"), gave a number of lectures about religion which have been transcribed in this book.<br /><br />There are all sorts of problems with this work.  The first problem, as others have noted, is that this book is not really about the role of religion in history; rather it is a discussion of the history and teachings of various religions (with occasional naturalistic evaluations), a somewhat less grandiose topic.  Second, it appears that these lectures were given to an Objectivist audience, so it is assumed that the listener knew about Objectivism, but Dr. Walsh shouldn't have assumed that such would be the case with readers of this work .  Third, the lectures are given an informal style that sounds silly at times when written.  Fourth, there are numerous errors and typos.  Take for example the following sentence: \\"Think of the traditionalist Archbishop Lefevre and his ordinations disapproved by the pope.\\" [p. 5.] Well, the name is \\"Lefebvre,\\" and it isn't even mentioned in the book's index.<br /><br />Taking these limitations and oversights into account, this book still isn't particularly useful.  What the various religions teach has been presented before and much better.  OK -- but what about as a critique of religion?  Dr. Walsh tells us \\"[t]he outlook governing the work is naturalistic and seeks to interpret religious phenomena in light of Objectivism.\\" [p. vii.] While that may be true to a point, there are only a hand-full of references to Rand or Objectivism and virtually no analysis of what a specifically Objectivist critique of religion would be as opposed to a generic naturalist critique.  So, this book isn't much of a contribution to Objectivist thought.  In fact, Leonard Peikoff's treatise, Objectivism: The Philosophy of Ayn Rand, contains a more detailed evaluation of religion than Dr. Walsh's.  Unfortunately, Peikoff -- in attempting to show that the various \\"axioms\\" of Objectivism preclude belief in God or the supernatural -- never rises above the level of ipse dixit. [See OPAR, pp. 31-33; see also Gotthelf, On Ayn Rand, pp. 48-50.] For example, Objectivists argue that because \\"existence exists,\\" God cannot exist.  Got that?  Well, I suppose we'll have to wait for the definitive Objectivist critique of religion (what a loss).<br /><br />Any reader who wants to learn about the role of religion in history might start with the works of Christopher Dawson (such as Progress and Religion and Christianity and the Rise of Western Culture).	2001-10-22
US	52963744	RBEZTAARB8L81	1882926617	325486475	Ludwig Von Mises: The Man and His Economics (Library of Modern Thinkers)	Books	4	9	10	N	N	Excellent	ISI Books has just come out with a series called Library of Modern Thinkers, which will contain summaries of the thought of important (for lack of a better term) conservative and libertarian thinkers - kind of like an Oxford University Press &quot;Past Masters.&quot;  According to the jacket, current and forthcoming titles will cover Nisbet, Ropke, Oakeshott, de Jouvenal, Lytle. Francis G. Wilson and Will Herberg (in other words, thinkers that wouldn't be included in a series that contains volumes on such worthies as Foucault and Derrida).<br />If Prof. Kirzner's work on von Mises is representative, then this series will be an important contribution to the publishing world.  Prof. Kirzner received his doctorate in economics in 1957 under von Mises and has written a number of important studies.  This book is well organized and informative.  It starts out with a chapter on von Mises' life, a chapter on his role in economics, and chapters on specific facets of his economic thought.  It concludes with an overview of von Mises as the 20th century's preeminent free-market thinker.<br />As a layman in economics, I learned a lot about von Mises the man and economist.  For example, there is a discussion on methodological differences between Hayek and von Mises, a discussion of the pioneering nature of much of his monetary thought, and how his thought differs from neoclassical economics.  I found particularly insightful Prof. Kirzner's comment that Human Action isn't simply a compendium of Austrian thinking, but is truly a brilliant extension of Austrian thought to a vast swath of economic and sociological issues.<br />I have one big problem with the book.  It is over 200 pages long, but it is double-spaced!  In fact, there are no block quotes.  Another quibble: according to the jacket, Friedman and Becker are &quot;exponents&quot; of the Austrian School.	2001-10-21
US	52963744	R5SCGRSS836W8	0940931508	83951569	Without a Prayer: Ayn Rand and the Close of Her System	Books	3	9	17	N	N	Strange Brew	In 1974, John Robbins came out with Answer to Ayn Rand, a work that criticized Ayn Rand's Objectivist philosophy from a Calvinist perspective based on the philosophy of Gordon Clark.  Clark was a rationalist who denied that there could be any proofs for God's existence.  His philosophy was also excessively anti-empiricist.<br />Robbins updated and expanded that work in 1997 under the new name ,Without a Prayer.  This book is certainly worth reading, but -- while it was one of the better discussions of Objectivism at the time -- it has been superseded by other works.<br />I must first object to the macabre cover.  On the front of the work is Rand's tombstone and the back, that of her husband Frank O'Connor.  What's the point?<br />In any event, the substance of this work isn't quite that bad.  There are a couple of excellent chapters -- those dealing with her theory of concept formation and also the religious nature of Objectivism.  Robbins has an eye for showing the contradictions and false assumptions of Objectivism, but at times he gives the least charitable interpretation of something Rand said to then contrast it with something else she said, in order to make Rand look silly or muddleheaded.  Of course, Rand was these things at times, but not even she deserves to be unnecessarily held up to ridicule.<br />Some of the work is mediocre and at times borders on the scurrilous.  For example, Robbins tells us that &quot;Their [Christians] continued existence under Objectivist government has already been the subject of debate in Objectivist circles . . . .&quot; [p. 210.]  Of course, there is no citation to such a &quot;debate.&quot; A society based on Objectivism certainly wouldn't be hospitable to the senile, the retarded, and anyone who doesn't agree with Rand.  But to imply that Objectivists advocate the murder of Christians is to out-Rand Rand at her worst.  While Mr. Robbins rightly protests that Leonard Peikoff wrongly equates the rise of Nazism with Christianity, he no has qualms of stooping to Peikoff's level (or worse) when he attacks Objectivism.<br />Robbins even gets silly when describing David Kelley as a &quot;radio receiver channeling omnipresent energy.&quot; [p. 37 n. 25.] Rand said some foolish things in her day, but I don't recall reading anything so silly as that.<br />This book is to be commended on one ground, however.  Mr. Robbins has no doubt introduced a great many people to the thought of Gordon Clark, one of the most influential apologists in recent history.	2001-10-17
US	52963744	R1AXT6DX636LQS	0595196330	69943996	Ayn Rand Contra Human Nature	Books	4	45	71	N	N	Quite Good	According to Ayn Rand, &quot;[Man's] spirit, that is his own essential character, must be created by him.  In this sense, it is almost as if he was born as an abstraction . . . but he must make himself concrete by his own effort, he must create himself.&quot; [Nyquist, Ayn Rand Contra Human Nature, p. 10 quoting The Journals of Ayn Rand.] Given this &quot;man as his own god&quot; view of human nature, Rand considered man's mind as &quot;tabula rasa&quot; and his will absolutely free.  From these ideas much else in Rand's philosophy flowed.  So, for example, emotions are programmed by human reason, concepts are created by the mind by a virtually deliberate process, and history is ultimately determined by ideas, to the virtual exclusion of economic and environmental factors.  But if Rand's view of human nature is wrong, then these conclusions are likely wrong as well.  That this is the case is the argument of Greg Nyquist's generally excellent book, Ayn Rand Contra Human Nature.<br />As Nyquist shows (following sociobiologist E.O. Wilson and others) this is every reason to believe that human nature isn't quite so malleable and unrestricted.  We are biological creatures;  human nature and our environment impose all sorts of limitations on us.   <br />In the book's best chapter - that on history - Nyquist pokes any number of holes in Rand's theories.  First of all, it is extremely unlikely that philosophical ideas are the ultimate determiner of history.  To make such a conclusion would require a complex analysis of various civilizations and cultures, to determine what factors influenced historical change.  Rand didn't do this, so why should her conclusions on history be trusted?<br />Indeed, as Nyquist shows, while Rand claimed to be the most &quot;rational&quot; and &quot;objective&quot; thinker ever, whenever one subjects her theories to empirical observation, they are almost always proven to be false.  Take for example her work, Introduction to Objectivist Epistemology.  There, Rand claims to solve the so-called &quot;problem of universals&quot; (which is more of a metaphysical than epistemological problem, but that's another story).  She engages in all sorts of gratuitous speculations on how human and even animal minds work without offering a shred of evidence.  Her speculations on history are even more ridiculous.  She proffered endless pablum on topics such as the Middle Ages and the Renaissance which are plainly false to anyone who has a modicum of knowledge on these subjects. <br />This book has some problems of its own.  Nyquist is a little unfair to Rand at times.  He could do a better job of synthesizing her statements.  In this respect, Sciabarra's Ayn Rand the Russian Radical is a much better discussion of her philosophy.  Likewise, many of his jabs at other philosophers (and scholars of Ayn Rand) are unfair.	2001-10-01
US	52963744	R1EMVHHVZ23TW9	0310231957	614043851	Two Views on Women in Ministry	Books	3	16	23	N	N	Poor Editing	This book is one in Zondervan's &quot;Counterpoints&quot; series. Each book in this series deals with a discrete topic in theology with contributors from differing evangelical point of view. Although the book is certainly worth reading, it shares the poor editing that has plagued some of the other Counterpoints books.<br />The editors are both professors at Denver Seminary. Prof. Blomberg is an advocate of the &quot;complementarian&quot; approach to women in the ministry (against) and Prof. Beck advocates the &quot;egalitarian&quot; approach (in favor). This leads to my first complaint. It seems to me that people who are opposed to women in the ministry should be called &quot;traditionalists&quot; and those in favor &quot;feminists.&quot; However, the editors tell us that these terms are &quot;pejorative.&quot; Then they go on to refer to the traditionalist view as &quot;hierarchalist.&quot; So much for not offending anyone. (Another Amazon reviewer noted this as well.)<br />Moving on to the substance of the book, the essays by Profs. Keener, Belleville and Schreiner are quite good. Most of the relevant biblical passages are discussed and the reader will get a good understand of why each side takes the position it does. The big disappointment is Prof. Ann Bowman's essay. Although she discusses the question of women in ministry, it is more focused on the concept of Christian ministry. In addition, it contains discussion of her days in seminary, her missionary work in Sierra Leone, her friend Londa, etc. Maybe the editors felt obligated to have a woman defend the &quot;hierarchalist&quot; approach, but this essay is a dud. (Moreover, she argues that women can be &quot;pastors,&quot; just not &quot;senior pastors,&quot; so how traditional she is is an open question.) Finally, we get to the closing essays (two by the editors) and one by Prof. Blomberg. These don't add much and it would have been better to follow the approach used in some of the other Counterpoints books- have the authors respond to each other's position. In addition, every effort is made to downplay the significance of the issue - it &quot;is not one of orthodoxy versus liberalism . . . or truth versus heresy.&quot; And of course, the truth is somewhere in the middle, etc. Yet if women do not belong in the ministry, then the willingness of some churches to purport to ordain them is one of the biggest cave-ins to modern culture in recent memory.	2001-09-23
US	52963744	R2NH7UQZ650HII	0830819916	251473212	How Wide the Divide?: A Mormon & an Evangelical in Conversation	Books	4	17	31	N	N	Informative	Members of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints (&quot;Mormons&quot;) and conservative Protestants generally haven't done a good job in trying to understand either other's beliefs.  Part of this problem lies in some of the relatively poor apologetic work that has been written against Mormonism.  This book seeks to rectify that problem by presenting a &quot;Crossfire&quot; type approach to theological differences between Protestantism and Mormonism, with Prof. Craig Blomberg presenting the case for Protestantism and Prof. Stephen Robinson the case for Mormonism.  The following topics are dealt with: (1) Scripture; (2) God &amp; Deification; (3) Christ &amp; the Trinity; and (4) Salvation.  It therefore avoids non-essential topics like polygamy.<br />My biggest problem with this work concerns Prof. Robinson's presentation of Mormonism.  He isn't a member of the church hierarchy, which is fine, but I wonder how accurately he presents church doctrine.  For example, he starts out the section on &quot;God &amp; Deification&quot; with the statement &quot;In the LDS view God is omniscient, omnipotent, infinite, eternal and unchangeable.&quot; [p. 77.]   Now, as Prof. Robinson goes on to explain, he certainly does not believe in these attributes in any way remotely similar to that held by most Christian theologians.  He also states, &quot;Many Evangelicals are convinced, wrongly, that Latter-day Saints believe in a finite, limited or changeable God, even though that notion is repugnant to us.&quot; [p. 88.] Again, this statement is clarified, but I wonder why he makes it.  Considering that Joseph Smith taught that God was once a man and that men can become gods, it is clear that Mormonism should be considered polytheistic.  [See Joseph Smith's  &quot;King Follet Discourse&quot; in The Essential Joseph Smith, p. 235. (&quot;For we have imagined that God was God from the beginning of all eternity. I will refute that idea . . . . He was once a man like one of us . .. .&quot;)] To present his semi-Evangelical version of Mormonism, Prof. Robinson has to, in effect, distance himself from some of the more extreme statements of past leaders of the church, but on what grounds?<br />Prof. Blomberg's comments on Mormonism generally hit their mark.  He is particularly effective in arguing against the Mormon claim that the orthodox view of God is based on Greek philosophy rather than the Bible.	2001-09-22
US	52963744	RS0M3CN6LT9NW	0809131889	306728309	Responses to 101 Questions on the Bible	Books	4	13	14	N	N	Solid Introduction	Raymond Brown was one of the best known Roman Catholic New Testament scholars of recent years. This work, published in 1990, provides an good introduction to the contemporary Roman Catholic view of Scripture. As Brown tells it, the Roman Catholic Church, beginning with Pius XII and continuing to the present, has come to accept higher criticism of the Bible. In addition, contrary to conservative Protestants, the Roman Catholic teaching limits Scriptural inerrancy to the theological message of the Bible only. Therefore, as Brown states, Catholics are free to believe that the early chapters of Genesis are not literal history and accept evolution. [p. 26.] Brown himself, along with most contemporary Catholic scholars, rejected the historicity of substantial parts of the New Testament, as well as opposed Pauline authorship of the Pastoral Epistles. In addition to answering basic questions about the Bible as such, Brown answers questions about Jesus, Mary, the priesthood among other subjects. Brown has a clear writing style, although at times he doesn't seem fair with those he disagrees with. [See p. 27.] As an interesting aside, some conservative Catholic scholars argue that the relevant church documents are not quite so accepting of higher criticism as Brown makes them out to be. The interested reader might wish to read the works of the late William Most for a different perspective.	2001-08-27
US	52963744	R16FW9X00C0GOA	0814775063	293858215	The Ethics of Liberty	Books	4	31	40	N	N	The Ethics of Anarchy	Murray Rothbard was the leading libertarian thinker of the 20th century.  In 1982, he published THE ETHICS OF LIBERTY, his central work on political theory and ethics.  This work was republished recently with an excellent introduction by Hans-Hermann Hope (the endnotes have been converted into footnotes, a big improvement).<br />This work is probably the best discussion of libertarian philosophy from an anarcho-capitalist perspective.  In addition, Rothbard develops a theory based on natural law, thus distancing himself from other strands of libertarian thought.<br />The book is particularly comprehensive.  Starting with a discussion of natural law, Rothbard turns to practical issues such as voluntary exchange, contracts, and the rights of children.  He then discusses the concept of the state.  He ends the work with discussions of different approaches to rights and a strategy for advancing liberty.  The comprehensive nature of the work is also its greatest weakness.  Rothbard discusses too many subjects in too few pages.  For example, the difficult question of the rights of children takes all of 15 pages.  Yet there is no more difficult question for any theory of rights than that question.<br />Rothbard's discussion of the rights of children is emblematic of the weakness and at times superficial nature of this work.  Take Rothbard's discussion of when the parents' &quot;jurisdiction&quot; over a child ends.  He states: &quot;Surely, any particular age (21, 18, or whatever) can only be completely arbitrary.  The clue to the solution to this thorny question lies in the parental property rights in their home.  For the child has his FULL rights of self-ownership WHEN HE DEMONSTRATES THAT HE HAS THEM IN NATURE-in short when he leaves or `runs away' from home.&quot; [p. 103; emphasis in the original.] First of all, it may be arbitrary to establish the age of emancipation at 18 rather than 17, but such decisions are found in all areas of life and are not thereby rendered &quot;completely arbitrary.&quot;  In any event, is it &quot;completely arbitrary&quot; to set it at 18 rather than 5?  Moreover, Rothbard's &quot;solution&quot; is in most respects even more arbitrary.  For example, if Junior Jones runs away when he is 8 years old, does that mean his parents cannot force him to stay?  What if Junior is 5 and wanders off his parents' property and stays at the Smiths' house, asserting that he would prefer to live with the Smiths.  Has he then demonstrated a &quot;right to self-ownership&quot; in nature?  Would it be wrong for the Joneses to take him back?  Rothbard uses a similar argument against Laissez-faire advocates of limited government who believe the state may provided limited protection services.  Supposedly their views fail because how much or little services such a government might provide can only be &quot;purely arbitrary.&quot; [p. 181.] This type of argument leads Rothbard to advocate abortion-on-demand, a position with which I strongly disagree. <br />For whatever flaws it contains, THE ETHICS OF LIBERTY it is certainly one of the most provocative books you will ever read.	2001-08-19
US	52963744	RBZ9KFTDGS7N2	1579101488	612581624	Children of Promise	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Valuable Study	The doctrine of infant baptism has been a controversial one in the churches of the Reformation.  Many denominations argue that the doctrine lacks Biblical foundation.  To address this question Geoffrey Bromiley wrote this concise study of the question some years ago.  It's good to see this book in print again.  As Bromiley notes there is no question that adults who come to faith out of paganism are to be baptized.  The issue is whether children of believers should be baptized.  While the New Testament doesn't explicitly say &quot;yes,&quot; there are good reasons to support the practice.  Most importantly, if the children of believers are members of the church, then it follows that they should be baptized.  Particularly strong is Bromiley's linking of the practice of infant baptism to a Calvinist approach to predestination.  This is a brief, but rewarding book on a controversial subject.	2001-08-11
US	52963744	R129O6VOELFGQR	0765800608	329254809	The Contested Legacy of Ayn Rand: Truth and Toleration in Objectivism	Books	4	33	54	N	N	Worth Reading	In 1989, David Kelley spoke at the Laissez Faire Supper Club, a libertarian organization.  Although he was an Orthodox Objectivist at that time, he was denounced and driven out of the movement by its second-hand leaders.  Kelley responded to the ouster by writing Truth and Toleration in 1990.  In The Contested Legacy of Ayn Rand, Kelley reprints this work without changes and adds a preface and a postscript bringing the discussion current to 2000.<br />A split in a minor, quasi-religious cult like Objectivism wouldn't justify an entire book, but that's not what Kelley wrote in 1990.  Rather, Truth and Toleration is an interesting discussion of Objectivism and also of how one judges people and their ideas.  For example, is a person who advocates an evil idea (Marxism) as culpable as those who murder millions of people in the name of Marxism (such as Stalin and his henchmen)?  Even if we consider Kant evil, are we justified in laying at his feet the errors that his followers developed as a result of his flawed premises?  Am I prohibited from doing anything that benefits an evil person, no matter how incidentally?  Kelley gives interesting and basically common-sense answers to these and other questions.<br />Kelley also has an interesting discussion of Objectivism as an &quot;open&quot; versus a &quot;closed&quot; system.  As Kelley notes, Rand's published writings on philosophy (excluding the philosophical selections in her novels) was fairly small (not more than 600 pages).  Although she wrote on many issues in philosophy, some she only touched on briefly.  For example, in her misnamed Introduction to Objectivist Epistemology, she only mentioned in passing the accuracy of the senses.  She never published her major work on metaphysics.  She didn't have much to say on propositions, the mind-body problem, or the philosophy of science.  (Some of these are my examples, not Kelley's.)  So even if an Objectivist attempts to follow Rand's philosophy as closely as possible, hestill has to apply her ideas to new areas if he is going to do any creative work. Whether any development of Rand's philosophy in a given area is a legitimate extension of her ideas will therefore be subject to dispute.  Perhaps this is one of the reasons why the output of Orthodox Objectivism has been rather slim -- best stay on well-trod ground than venture out for fear of excommunication.  It is only Objectivists outside of the official movement and those who are sympathetic to her ideas who have published a lot, from what I can tell.<br />This book isn't perfect.  It contains typical Objectivist snide (and ill-informed) attacks on religion, for example.  However, it is well-written and thought-provoking.	2001-07-22
US	52963744	R2TG2JGZ48B00Q	0310590914	466128707	Intellectuals Don't Need God and Other Modern Myths	Books	4	18	20	N	N	Good Introduction to Apologetics	Alister McGrath is a moderately conservative theologian in the Church of England who has written numerous introductory and advances works. [p. 67.]  In this book - based on lectures - McGrath provides a concise discussion of Christian apologetics.  This book is neither a history of apologetics nor a comprehensive discussion of various apologetic approaches.  Rather, he sets forth arguments in favor of Christianity and against secular ideologies.  He doesn't follow any specific method of apologetics, but relies on the strength of different approaches.  As he states, &quot;But apologetics is not concerned with this single conclusion.  It is concerned with the accumulation of pointers . . . which eventually build up to give a credible, persuasive, and attractive case for God.&quot; [p. 41.] So while evidentialism has a role in defeating the most common objections against Christianity - such as that Jesus never lived - it cannot provide all the necessary reasons for faith. [p. 54.] In fact, McGrath maintains (perhaps controversially) that Aquinas's famous &quot;proofs&quot; for the existence of God were never meant as proofs, but rather arguments to show the rationality of belief in God for people who already believe. [p. 35.]<br />McGrath also has a good discussion of such matters as Darwinism, Marxism, and religious pluralism.  Also, his discussion of Calvin is quite interesting.  Calvin didn't deny that there was a &quot;point of contact&quot; between Christians and non-Christians. [pp. 212-16.]	2001-07-15
US	52963744	R1T2GXJT0GI2F7	019505640X	394982820	Wings of Judgment: American Bombing in World War II	Books	5	9	20	N	N	Chilling	This is an outstanding book on American bombing in World War II.  Schaffer begins with background studies on those who lead the American air war and on air war doctrine.  He then describes in some detail the air war against Germany and Japan, describing what happened and also the opinions of those who lead the war - men such as Curtis LeMay, &quot;Hap&quot; Arnold, and Carl Spaatz.<br />Sadly, the U.S. effort began to directly target civilians.  This culminated in such atrocities as the attack on Dresden on February 13-14, 1945, a city which contained few industrial and military targets.  A conservative estimate of the deaths is 35,000. [p. 97.] The March 10, 1945 bombing of Tokyo lead to an estimated 87,000 deaths. [p. 132.]   This may have exceeded the number of deaths at either Hiroshima or Nagasaki.  Schaffer's description of the Tokyo attack is chilling: &quot;Choking inhabitants crawled across fallen telephone poles and trolley wires.  As superheated air burned their lungs and ignited their clothing, some burst into flames, fires sweeping up from the bottom of trousers . . . . Some women who carried infants . . realized only when they stopped to rest that their babies were on fire.&quot; [p. 134.]<br />For those who glamorize war and glamorize those who fought in World War II as the &quot;greatest generation,&quot; this book provides a useful corrective.	2001-07-04
US	52963744	R3LLR4CYN9IG9A	0691059837	115625930	After Liberalism: Mass Democracy in the Managerial State.	Books	5	44	45	N	N	Brilliant	Paul Gottfried has written a fascinating work on the intersection between liberalism, democracy, and what is often called the &quot;managerial state.&quot;  As Prof. Gottfried tells us, many see contemporary democracy as a valueless search to balance competing group interests.  One group jockeys against another with the result that a compromise agreeable to no one is reached.  While this is a partial truth, it is certainly not the whole truth.  Ever since liberalism ceased being liberal and became socialist, a managerial class has been intent on imposing its values on an often unwilling public.  <br />It is Prof. Gottfried's goal to analyze this phenomenon and tell us how it came about.  There is a particularly profound chapter entitled &quot;In Search of a Liberal Essence.&quot;   Like Masons tracing their rituals and doctrine allegedly back to the Egyptians, contemporary liberals are intent on showing that their values go back to the Greeks.  So John Dewey supposedly becomes a follower of John Locke and Socrates.  Of course, free market liberals like von Mises are excluded from the pantheon of true liberals.  However, it was Dewey and his fellow progressives who broke with liberalism and whose ideas marked a watershed.  It is with them that planning became accepted by almost everyone.  Even supposed conservatives do little to dismantle the welfare state once they take power.  As Prof. Gottfried states at the end of this chapter, the search for the liberal essence is elusive.  <br />      Prof. Gottfried's book is not narrowly academic.  He provides a number of contemporary examples showing how the managerial elite imposes its values on society.  For example, big business and the elites of the Left and the so-called Right tend to support high levels of immigration, although one would assume that their interests would be opposed.  This is in spite of the fact that opposition to immigration is quite high among the public at large.  Other examples are speech codes oncampuses and the attempt to squelch all talk of inherited difference in intelligence as somehow reminiscent of Naziism.<br />This is one the most interesting and well-written books I've come across in a long time.	2001-06-24
US	52963744	R24J4OU2CPQJ2Z	0195113470	434993722	Reason and Religious Belief: An Introduction to the Philosophy of Religion	Books	4	14	15	N	N	Excellent	The philosophy of religion is a fascinating subject which is getting more attention in recent years.  There are any number of introductory works on the subject, but this is one of the best I've seen.  It is particularly comprehensive and deals with a number of subjects beyond the traditional topics found in such books, including science and religion, religious pluralism, and life after death.  It also introduces the reader to leading thinkers in every area, but avoids excessively technical language.  A person who is studying philosophy for the first time or who has a basic knowledge of philosophy but wants to study the philosophy of religion would benefit from reading this book.<br />The authors are Christians and the writing tends to sympathize with the theistic approach.  If you get this book, make sure you get the authors' collection of readings, Philosophy of Religion: Selected Readings.	2001-06-17
US	52963744	R3O0NTKT8V3ASO	0941214710	27294327	The Essential Joseph Smith (Classics in Mormon Thought Series)	Books	4	6	8	N	N	Valuable Introduction to Joseph Smith	Joseph Smith (1805-1844) was one of the most important men in American religious history.  It was Smith who gave birth to the religious movement known as Mormonism, the largest representative of which is the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-Day Saints, headquartered in Utah.  This is a handy collection of Smith's writings and sermons.  It is particularly valuable because it is arranged in chronological order.  Therefore, you can see the development of his thought from a more-or-less orthodox monotheism to polytheism.  This is best seen in the famous (or notorious) \\"King Follet Discourse\\" which dates from the end of Smith's life.  Smith sets forth his Gnostic approach to theology: \\"For we have imagined that God was God from the beginning of all eternity.  I will refute that idea . . . . He was once a man like one of us . . . .\\" [p. 235.]  Those who consider Mormonism a quirky offshoot of orthodox Christianity ought to read this sermon.  This book has a couple of flaws - it lacks a good introduction and notes concerning people and events mentioned in the documents.	2001-06-07
US	52963744	R3P0U9H5KWGBA3	0805414002	664196657	The Meaning of History	Books	4	25	26	N	N	Good Overview	Professor Ronald Nash has written an enjoyable overview of the philosophy of history.  He starts out with a discussion of &quot;world views&quot; from a Christian perspective.  He then contrasts the Christian view of history (linear) to the typical non-Christian view, which tends to be cyclical.  He then provides concise discussions of some of the principal philosophers of history: Augustine, Vico, Herder, Kant, Hegel, Marx, Spengler and Toynbee.  He critiques their thought from a Christian perspective, in his case a Calvinist philosophy drawning on the thought of Gordon Clark (although, curiously, he doesn't refer the reader to Clark's principal work on the subject, Historiography: Secular and Religious).<br />This is an enjoyable book, meant primarily for those with minimal knowledge of philosophy and the philosophy of history.  There's nothing wrong with that, but at times the discussions of various writers can be rather slim.  On the other hand, many people well-read in philosophy aren't familiar with Vico and Herder, and they should be.<br />Readers who are interested in the topic might wish to start with Prof. Nash's work on then read Brander's Staring Into Chaos and Bebbington's Patterns of History.  Also relevant is Passmore's The Perfectability of Man, which deals with similar issues from a somewhat different perspective.	2001-05-27
US	52963744	RP1VQEVZHXBO2	0195135091	533200031	Hidden Gospels: How the Search for Jesus Lost Its Way	Books	5	53	63	N	N	Outstanding	In recent years, much attention has been given the claims that certain non-Canonical gospels and documents, such as the Gospel of Thomas, provide valuable information on the teaching of Jesus Christ.  As Prof. Philip Jenkins shows, the obsession to find additional &quot;gospels&quot; is not a modern preoccupation but goes back even before the Nag Hammadi find in 1945.  Parts of what is now known as the Gospel of Thomas were known for years.  Some of the partisans in favor of Thomas assert that it is as old as, if not older than, the earliest synoptic Gospel.  Because of the &quot;mystical&quot; and non-eschatological character of most of it (and other such works), the argument is made that it preserves the &quot;real&quot; teaching of Jesus: not the divine person of Christian orthodoxy, but the wandering sage, dispensing wisdom that just happens to coincide with so much of the modern temperament - mystical, egalitarian, feminist, etc.  However, the claim that Thomas was written prior to 150 AD is week, and it is almost certain that the large majority of other gospels are dated much later than that.  So when all is said and done, the claims of the Jesus Seminar and other radical scholars to find authentic sayings of Jesus in such works are without foundation.<br />The best part of the this book is its comprehensive nature.  Prof. Jenkins places this question in theological, biblical, historical and sociological perspective.  As he shows, there is nothing new about the claims that the non-Canonical gospels preserve other sayings of Jesus.  Long before anyone heard of the Dead Sea Scrolls, some had argued that Jesus was an Essene.  But the pace has accelerated.  Recent television programs give prominence to radicals like Crossan instead of more main-stream scholars, giving the unsuspecting viewer the impression that orthodox Christianity is &quot;hiding&quot; some truths about Jesus that would be subversive of the faith.<br />I have one minor criticism of this work.  Prof. Jenkins refers throughout the book to certain scholars, such as John P. Meier of Catholic University (author of A Marginal Jew) as &quot;conservatives.&quot;  Meier is no Crossan, but it is quite a stretch to use this term to describe him.  While Meier accepts the historicity of much of the Gospels, he rejects substantial portions of it.  Although the Roman Catholic Church has become more friendly toward higher criticism in recent years, it was quite shocking to see that Meier's work received the imprimatur of the Church.	2001-05-20
US	52963744	R2R04GFGV0BCJK	0830815945	980914654	Evangelical Theology in Transition: Theologians in Dialogue With Donald Bloesch	Books	4	13	13	N	N	Worth Reading	Professor Donald Bloesch is one of the most influential evangelical theologians in recent years.  He is currently at work on a seven volume systematic theology entitled CHRISTIAN FOUNDATIONS.  <br />This work consists of background essays about Prof. Bloesch and discussions of specific aspects of this theology, as well as a response by Prof. Bloesch.  As such it is an extremely useful book to read while studying Prof. Bloesch's systematic theology.  It is also enjoyable to see Prof. Bloesch's work taken seriously by such well-known names as Avery Dulles and T. F. Torrance.<br />The book is subtitled EVANGELICAL THEOLOGY IN TRANSITION.  This is an appropriate title.    Prof. Bloesch is something of a &quot;centrist&quot; theologian whose work falls (broadly speaking) within the Reformed tradition.  Prof. Bloesch is heavily influenced by Barth, not generally considered one of the more faithful interpreters of the Reformed tradition (although Barth can be read in many ways). Prof. Bloesch rejects biblical inerrancy as defined by conservatives, supports the ordination of women, accepts the possibility of salvation after death, and is opposed to defining the Trinity as &quot;three separate persons.&quot;  [pps. 122, 176, 128, 196.]  Some people may consider that Prof. Bloesch's theology has &quot;transitioned&quot; into, well, liberalism.<br />When completed, Prof. Bloesch's systematic theology will have seven volumes.  When this work came out, only four of the seven had been published.  So we do not get a detailed discussion of Prof. Bloesch's ecclesiology and eschatology.  Clark Pinnock's chapter on Prof. Bloesch's doctrine of the Holy Spirit was written before the volume on the subject came out.  Hopefully the book will be updated when Prof. Bloesch's magnum opus is completed.	2001-05-06
US	52963744	R30FMZQY2L3ZUS	0830814159	787081469	The Holy Spirit: Works & Gifts (Christian Foundations)	Books	3	11	13	N	N	Good, but not Great	This book is the fifth of a projected seven volume systematic theology by Prof. Donald Bloesch.  Like the other works in this series, it is written from a Protestant position that is largely influenced (although not controlled by) Reformed thought.  Also, it continues Prof. Bloesch's irenic approach to the topic at hand.  The book is dedicated to the memory of John Wesley (an Arminian) and George Whitefield (a Calvinist).  The most surprising aspect of the book is how open Prof. Bloesch is to the pentecostal/charismatic movement.  He rejects the view that some or all of the gifts of the spirit detailed in the New Testament were limited to the apostolic age.  On the other hand, he rejects pentecostalism's emphasis on the &quot;second blessing&quot; and miracles and instead teaches a more Reformed approach to Christian living.<br />There is much to commend about this work.  A large part of it consists of Prof. Bloesch's discussion of, and interaction with, numerous theological traditions.  So, from Puritanism to Pietism, and Mormonism to Spiritism, you get a comprehensive discussion of various viewpoints on the Holy Spirit, as well as Prof. Bloesch's opinion of them.  This is also the principal weakness of the book.  It is to a large extent Prof. Bloesch's interaction with various theologians and schools.  Prof. Bloesch does not ignore the Biblical data, but it unfortunately takes second place to the historical and theological discussions.  There is a general background study of both testaments, and fairly detailed exegesis of a few pertinent biblical passages, but I would prefer more.  This is particularly important in understanding pentecostalism.  For example, basic to one's opinion of pentecostalism is just what happened at Pentecost - what were the &quot;other tongues&quot; that are mentioned in Acts 2 and what is their relation to the tongues at Corinith?  Are they the same or different?  Do both describe speaking human languages?  If that's the case, then mostof what goes on in pentecostal &quot;tongue speaking&quot; isn't biblical.  In addition, what is wrong about the arguments that have convinced most theologians -- particularly those of Prof. Bloesch's Reformed tradition -- that the more spectacular gifts mentioned in the New Testament were of limited duration?  Prof. Bloesch &quot;glosses over&quot; these issues.	2001-04-15
US	52963744	R1VZZ164TTJV53	0819906948	368063181	Christian Humanism: A Critique of the Secular City and Its Ideology	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Excellent	As Thomas Molnar tells us, humanism -- a man-centered ideology -- is dominant in the West.  It is Molnar's aim in this modest size book to analyze the phenomenon and also show its influence on the Roman Catholic Church.  In so doing, Molnar provides an enjoyable overview of Western thought spending a good deal of time on authors that many of us might not have the time to study.  Yet these thinkers have had great influence on history: from Joachim of Fiore, Cusanas and Meister Eckhart in the past to more recent names such as Moltman and Teilhard de Chardin.<br />Molnar is quite interesting in his discussion of how Christianity has surrendered to secularism.  The discussion of the influence of Maritain is quite valuable as well.  This is a very informative book.	2001-03-26
US	52963744	R1SN26NI0IDLWK	0674268636	517747221	The Ethics of Authenticity	Books	4	21	29	N	N	Excellent	This short book concerns what has been called &quot;authenticity,&quot; namely the idea that values are only important to the extent that they are chosen by the individual.  Particularly in America, there is a heavy emphasis on self-fulfilment. We are told that you have to be happy, have self-esteem, and be fulfilled as a person. As Taylor writes, &quot;In adopting the ideal, people in the culture of authenticity, as I want to call it, give support to a certain kind of liberalism, which has been espoused by others as well. . . . The good life is what each individual seeks, in his or her own way, and government would be lacking for all citizens, if it took sides on this question.&quot; [pp. 17-8.] Taylor diagnoses this tendency from a variety of perspectives, neither dismissing it out of hand nor giving it unconditional praise.  This a serious, but easy to read, book.<br />Those seeking a lengthier discussion of these issues might profitably consult the author's larger, Sources of the Self, which deals with these matters from a historical perspective.	2001-03-10
US	52963744	R27DFD3G7G0N0E	0802847552	969058167	Theology for the Community of God	Books	4	6	7	N	N	Enjoyable	In recent years, any number of systematic theologies have been written by Evangelicals.  Stanley Grenz is a moderately conservative theologian and his book is a welcome overview of Christian theology from a Baptistic perspective.  One of the best features of this book is that the discussion is clear and thorough, but never simplistic.  Grenz achieves this by focusing on the Biblical material and leaving the historical discussion to a few key thinkers in any area.  This prevents the work from reading like a telephone book, unlike many systematic theologies.  In addition, Grenz has a purpose to his work, namely to integrate his discussion with the communitarian aspects of Christianity.  Finally, the work is less than 700 pages, making a bit less intimidating than other theologies.	2001-02-22
US	52963744	R2K2XMZVXHLFCZ	0865972575	36795842	The Perfectibility of Man	Books	5	28	33	N	N	A Journey In Ideas	You might no think it, but the concept of the perfectibility of man has been widely held by philosophers.  Of course, what they meant by perfectibility hasn't always been the same.  This topic is the subject of the very enjoyable work by John Passmore.  He discusses the attitude of philosophers and theologians from antiquity to the present, as well as touching on writers such as Orwell, Shaw and Zamiatin.  Needless to say, many have opposed human perfectibility and Passmore devotes sections of the work to opponents such as Augustine, Luther and Calvin.  For example, Calvin writes: &quot;He who comes nearest to perfection has not yet advanced half-way.&quot; [p. 162.]<br />This book is lengthy, but you can use it as a reference work on thinkers.  For example, there is a fascinating discussion of Teilhard de Chardin, who as Passmore points out, combines almost all the diverse themes found in perfectabilist literature. [p. 410.]   Even many who have read a fair amount about Teilhard might be surprised to see his almost grudging support for totalitarian regimes of Europe in the 40s.	2001-02-04
US	52963744	R1CJU2H3M8L159	0534576249	133291594	On Sartre (Wadsworth Philosophers Series)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Excellent	I'm no expert on Sartre, but I decided to &quot;review&quot; this book because I found it a throughly enjoyable, informative and well-written introduction to the best known existentialist of the 20th Century.<br />The book starts out with an introduction to Sartre and his place within existentialism. [pp. 1-6.] The second chapter is called &quot;life and works&quot; and is an excellent overview of Sartre's life which deals extensively with his literature and politics. [pp. 7-40.] The final chapters deal with Sartre's epistemology, ontology, psychology, and ethics.  [pp. 41-95.] In these chapters, Prof. Kamber quotes extensively (but not excessively) from Sartre's works.  The book contains equal amounts of praise and criticism and strikes me as fair and balanced.  Although everything is cited, the book doesn't contain footnotes (which I find generally distract and aren't necessary in an introductory work).<br />I have only a couple of criticisms of this work.  First, Prof. Kamber is too easy on Sartre for his support of the Soviet Union.  According to Prof. Kamber, Sartre did not break ties with the Soviet Union until the invasion of Czechoslovakia in 1968. [p. 35.]  Since the crimes of the Soviet Union were well-known (such as committing genocide in the Ukraine) one would think there would be no excuse for having any ties with such a government at any time.  Why Sartre decided to offer at least partial support for years to a nation that committed crimes greater than Nazi Germany's is a question worthy of some discussion.  Second, the book doesn't contain a list of recommended books about Sartre.<br />Prof. Kamber clearly put a great deal of effort to make this book readable and informative.  I recommend it highly.	2001-01-20
US	52963744	RG5HJK9COKY20	0226861147	640038504	The New Science of Politics: An Introduction (Walgreen Foundation Lectures)	Books	4	40	43	N	N	Learned	Eric Voegelin was one of the most learned scholars of the 20th century.  This work, which goes beyond what might be considered a &quot;science of politics,&quot; is a fairly complete exposition of some of the central themes of philosophy, particularly how they relate to politics.  Voegelin's thesis is (in part) roughly as follows: Christianity, particularly in its Augustinian version, dedivinzed the universe.  In this process, man saw his limited, creaturely role.  However, various revolutionary movements arose which sought to redivinize man and society.  These movements were largely &quot;gnostic&quot; in orientation.  This gnosticism can be seen in the revolutionary philosophies of our time, such as Comteianism, Marxism, and Nazism. &quot;These Gnostic experiences . . . are the core of the redivinization of society, for the men who fall into these experiences divinize themselves by substituting more massive modes of participation in divinity for faith in the Christian sense.&quot;  [p. 124.] One gnostic phenomenon Voegelin calls &quot;immanitizing the eschaton&quot; in which revolutionaries attempt to create utopia on earth.  They often follow a version of Joachim's &quot;three ages&quot; scheme: for example, Comte's approach to history (theological, metaphysical, and scientific phases); the Marxian three stages of society (primitive, class-based, and communistic); and Nazism with its &quot;Third Reich.&quot; [pps. 112-13.]<br />Voegelin's learning is nothing short of astounding.  He is at ease discussing topics as diverse as ancient philosophy, the inscriptions of King Darius I, the Mongol Orders of Submission, and various Puritan literature.<br />There are a couple problems with this work.  First, Voegelin has a rather freewheeling use of the term &quot;gnosticism&quot; which he seems to apply to just about everything he doesn't like.  For example, the Protestant Reformation was &quot;the successful invasion of Western institutions by Gnostic movements.&quot; [p. 134.] While gnosticism may be an appropriate way to describe various movements that sprung up at the time of the Reformation, this is an unfair characterization of Protestantism as a whole. [See Murray Rothbard's essay &quot;Karl Marx as Religious Eschatologist&quot; in The Logic of Action II.]  In fact, Voegelin goes so far as to call Calvin's Institutes a &quot;Gnostic Koran&quot;!  [p. 139.]  He also sees gnostic elements in Paul and Isaiah, among others.  Second, it's kind of hard to determine exactly what Voegelin's own views are.  Although he has been praised by many Christian writers, he apparently wasn't a Christian in the traditional sense.  He called himself a &quot;mystic.&quot; [Michael Franz, Eric Voegelin and the Politics of Spiritual Revolt, p. 70 n. 11.]  In fact, David Gordon, echoing R.J. Rushdoony, recently stated that Voegelin was himself a gnostic! [David Gordon, Mises Review, Fall 2000.]	2001-01-08
US	52963744	R3051NPQLNJMRD	080280456X	634891901	Return to Reason: A Critique of Enlightenment Evidentialism and a Defense of Reason and Belief in God	Books	4	16	19	N	N	Excellent	One of my favorite types of books is a concise introduction that is also opinionated.  Kelley James Clark has written just such a book on the philosophy of religion.  It is a presentation of that topic from a position that has been called &quot;Reformed epistemology.&quot;  As I understand it, Reformed epistemology is an attempt to develop a Calvinistic approach to the philosophy of religion based on the teachings of Calvin, as taught most recently by Alvin Plantinga.  My knowledge of Calvin is quite limited and I haven't read anything by Plantinga, so I can't opine on whether Prof. Clark adequately sets forth their positions (although I have no reason to doubt the accuracy of his presentation).  RETURN TO REASON doesn't deal with all the topics you would find in a standard survey book; for example, all the arguments for God's existence aren't dealt with.  However, he does present an excellent discussion of the cosmological argument and the argument from design, and many other subjects.  The best part of the book is a discussion of the failings of traditional (&quot;evidential&quot;) apologetics.  Many apologists for Christianity have argued that one shouldn't believe in God without proof, and that reason must some how validate revelation.  Prof. Clark shows the pitfalls of this approach, which has its origins in the Enlightenment.  For example, we often believe things - such as the existence of other minds or an external world without reflection, much less proof.  Also, is a child wrong to believe in God without having studied the proofs for God's existence?     <br />I would have liked to see some interaction with other Reformed apologists.  There is no mention of Cornelius van Til or Gordon Clark, two of the 20th century's best known American apologists, both staunch Calvinists.  What makes Prof. Plantinga's work more &quot;Reformed&quot; than their's?<br />This book came out in 1990.  A more recent statement of Prof. Clark's views can be found in FIVE VIEWS ON APOLOGETICS, Cowan, ed. (Zondervan 2000), where he interacts with the views of other apologetic traditions.	2000-12-30
US	52963744	RVIKPNWTDMS55	052165629X	738385726	The Rise and Decline of the State	Books	5	54	60	N	N	Brilliant	Every once in a while you come across a book that goes beyond being interesting or thought-provoking, but is a veritable five lane intellectual super-highway.  Martin van Creveld's The Rise and Decline of the State is such a book.<br />Prof. van Creveld's work revolves around this point: prior to the seventeenth century (with some exceptions) rule was seen as personal.  The monarch personally ruled over a given region and the people owed him their loyalty.  The state was not the abstract entity that it was to become.  The change from personal to abstract rule brought with it profound consequences in virtually all aspects of life.<br />Along the path from personal to abstract rule, many thinkers and rulers played a role, but Hobbes was decisive.   [p. 179.]  Also important were Locke, Montesquieu and Rousseau.  <br />Of course, personal rule didn't guarantee that you would live in a libertarian paradise.  Nonetheless, personal rule carried with it certain obligations: the sovereign (generally as a servant of God) was under the law and his powers were limited.  The modern, bureaucratic state has almost unlimited powers.  Even worse, the total state often leads to total war.  In earlier times, wars between &quot;states&quot; were really quarrels between ruling houses and the common man could escape involvement.  Not so with the modern state: you are a citizen of the state and owe it your exclusive allegiance. [p.  185.]<br />There is a lot more a reviewer could comment on in this book.  Prof. van Creveld has all sorts of interesting things to say about the rise of the state and changes in crime, education, war, and the economy.<br />I do have one quarrel with the book.  On page 178, Prof. van Creveld says that Christianity teaches that God &quot;is believed to possess no fewer than three different bodies.&quot;  Since Prof. van Creveld is not (so far as I can tell) a Mormon, I'm at a loss to see how he came up with that idea.	2000-12-25
US	52963744	R264PPRNXFAVA7	0707302854	489482779	Cosmos and Creator	Books	5	13	13	N	N	Excellent	This work, published in 1980, is perhaps the best introduction and summary of Stanley Jaki's ideas on the relationship between science, cosmology, and religion.  It is considerably less dense than some of his other works and, as he tells us, was written specifically as a concise treatment of his views.<br />Each chapter provides a good overview of the topic at hand.  For example, the chapter entitled &quot;The Dogma of Creation&quot; is particularly thorough.  It is common to assert that the dogma of creatio ex nihilo is not found in the Old Testament but came about as a result of the influence of Greek thought.  But as Jaki shows, the concept is at least implied in the opening chapter of Genesis.  He provides a discussion of supposed similarities between Genesis and the Sumerian creation story Enumah Elish.  He then surveys the New Testament and Gnostic literature and presents a fascinating discussion of the claim that creatio ex nihilo is a Greek idea.  He quotes from Plato and Aristotle statements in which they unambiguously reject the concept.  The chapter concludes with a discussion of Medieval, Jewish, Moslem and modern thought on the subject.  Particularly fascinating is Jaki's discussion of the question of whether the doctrine may properly be called &quot;Judeo-Christian&quot; in light of certain strands in Jewish thought.	2000-12-11
US	52963744	R7OTI4WMOIZ3D	0802846513	733621150	Means to Message: A Treatise on Truth	Books	4	26	28	N	N	Dense But Enjoyable	This book contains fourteen chapters, each of which deals with a specific philosophical theme such as science, free will, purpose, and God.  Stanley Jaki writes from the Thomistic/Aristotelean perspective.  To him, philosophy is not idle speculation, or &quot;talk about talk,&quot; but is &quot;about something and inevitably also about the thing too that delivered something (message) to philosophers and lesser mortals.&quot; [p. 5.]<br />The central problem with this work (like some other works by the author) is its incredibly dense nature.  Almost every topic is introduced by what someone else said, and it's hard to decipher exactly what Jaki's position is. For example, the chapter entitled &quot;Universe&quot; contains fourteen pages.  In it Jaki mentions Whitehead, Plato, Socrates, Chesterton, W. James, Spencer, Wells, Locke, Hume, Descartes, Kant, Herschel, Cassirer, Dewey, Sagan, Riemann, Zollner, Schwarzschild, Einstein, De Sitter, R. L. Stevenson, Newton, Bentley, Euclid, Clifford, Boscovich, Godel, M. Fuller, J. H. Newman, Carlyle, Hegel, Laplace, Poincare, in addition to some others mentioned in the footnotes. [pp. 139-52.] Yet hidden in this chapter is an enjoyable discussion of central questions that many of us haven't thought of: how can scientists and cosmologists contend that the universe is everything?  How can scientists go outside the universe and make judgments about it, including that it is infinite?  <br />This book will reward the reader who is willing to spend a little extra time.	2000-12-01
US	52963744	R16QVTJXQRAKOY	1882926463	118502478	The Limits of a Limitless Science and Other Essays	Books	4	28	30	N	N	I liked this book	This work contains 15 essays written by Stanley Jaki, a well-known Benedictine priest and author of numerous works on the relationship between science and religion.  The essays concern a number of topics familiar to Jaki's readers such as artificial intelligence, SETI, evolution, cosmology, and others.  I enjoyed best the essays in the book in which Jaki discusses the concepts of purpose, causality, and creation.  Contrary to some, he forcefully argues that these concepts are primarily philosophical and theological, rather than scientific.  This leads to a number of important conclusions, such as the Heisenberg uncertainty principle cannot be used to show that causality doesn't exist since it concerns measurement. [p. 133-34.]  In addition, science cannot prove the eternity of the universe. [p. 137.] &quot;That the universe owes its ultimate origin to a creation out of nothing is a philosophical inference based on its metaphysical contingency and not a conclusion from empirical observation.&quot; [p. 138.] It would make an interesting study to compare Jaki's position with that of the intelligent design movement, such as W. Dembski and M. Behe.	2000-11-25
US	52963744	R2LGSSHE8K80OL	0931888638	797661206	Bible and Science	Books	4	25	25	N	N	Quite Good	Stanley L. Jaki is one of the most important writers on the relationship between religion and science.  Perhaps because of his writing style - which is at times polemical and at other times obscure - he doesn't receive the attention he deserves.  This book - Bible and Science - serves as an excellent introduction to his work as well as a fine introduction to the subject in general. <br />         This book is really two books. The first deals with the Biblical view of the world.  As Jaki tells us, while the Bible's view of the universe may be somewhat primitive, it does teach about the regularity of nature and contains a realist epistemology, both of which provided fertile ground for the rise of science.  Although Jaki is a conservative Catholic theologian and has, for example, written books defending the papacy, he is no fundamentalist.  While he rejects Darwinism, he also rejects any attempt to find &quot;concordance&quot; between Genesis and natural science.  He also considers Genesis 1 to be post-exilic and the product of multiple authors, which will hardly endear him to conservative Protestants, who might otherwise sympathize with much of his work.  The second book concerns the history of science and Christianity from the time of the Greeks to the present.  According to Jaki, western science came to a dead-end around the time of Christ, only to be revivified during the Middle Ages thanks to the influence of Christianity.  This part of the book can be obscure at times, but it is worth the effort.	2000-11-14
US	52963744	R3I14LI7W2PY8C	0415171164	627637526	Philosophy of Language: A Contemporary Introduction (Routledge Contemporary Introductions to Philosophy)	Books	5	19	23	N	N	Excellent	If you are going to understand contemporary philosophy, you have to understand the philosophy of language.  Prof. Lycan's book is an excellent introduction.  First, it is very clearly written and, second, it avoids excessive use of logical symbolism.  My only complaints are that there could have been a longer discussion of Frege and more discussion of how questions raised impact other areas of philosophy such as metaphysics and religion.  However, Prof. Lycan tells us that these matters will be taken up in the other works in the Routledge Contemporary Introduction to Philosophy series.	2000-11-11
US	52963744	R3APM3WYV07JET	0451149165	970161710	The Romantic Manifesto: A Philosophy of Literature; Revised Edition (Signet Shakespeare)	Books	1	11	30	N	N	More of the Same	This book contains Ayn Rand's theory of art.  It's not a bad book, by Randian standards, but that's not saying much.  The theory presented is integrated with Rand's epistemology (actually, her theory of concepts) and therefore has all the problems that her epistemology entails.  In addition, like Introduction to Objectivist Epistemology, it contains much gratuitous and unwarranted speculation about how the children, adults and animals think.<br />The above being said, Rand has some interesting things to say.  For example, the chapter Art and Sense of Life is provocative.  Rand states: &quot;An artist does not fake reality-he stylizes it.  He selects those aspects of existence which regards as metaphysically significant-and by isolating and stressing them, by omitting the insignificant and accidental, he presents his view of existence.&quot; [p. 36.] This strikes me as correct, but I seriously doubt Rand was the first to view art this way.<br />My biggest problem with book is Rand's definition of romanticism.  As usual, she makes up her own definition (think of her definitions of &quot;selfishness&quot; and &quot;altruism&quot;.)  She states: &quot;Romanticism is a category of art based on the recognition of the principle that man possesses the faculty of volition.&quot; [p. 99.] While this is one aspect of romanticism, it certainly doesn't define the movement.  Clearly much of romanticism is directly contrary to her professed philosophy.  Indeed, one dictionary defines &quot;romanticism&quot; (in part) as &quot;a stress on immediate sensation . . . a distaste for the orderly, rational, intellectual and moderate . . . &quot; [Angeles, Dictionary of Philosophy, ad loc.]	2000-10-25
US	52963744	RTSF8AE2ZXPJZ	0664247431	180070456	Process Theology: An Introductory Exposition	Books	3	24	66	N	N	A Good Book About A Bad Theology	Even many people who have never heard of process theology have heard of its central concepts, most notably a limited and evolving god, so an introductory book on this subject is quite useful.  Professors Cobb and Griffin are advocates of process theology and provide a balanced overview of both the history and ideas of process thought as well as a defense.  In the introduction, the authors set forth 5 &quot;connotations&quot; of the word &quot;God&quot; (which are somewhat caricatured views of orthodox theism) and then state of each: &quot;Process theology denies the existence of this God.&quot;  <br />The authors provide a useful background study of process theology, beginning with Whitehead and his student, Charles Hartshorne.  It also contains a lengthy &quot;guide to the literature.&quot; Unfortunately, the book came out in 1976 so these sections are a bit out of date.  Speaking of the 70's, what strikes me as interesting about the book is how &quot;70's&quot; it is.  It's all there - environmentalism, women's lib, &quot;authenticity,&quot; &quot;realizing new possibilities,&quot; Buddhism, etc.  If they book had come out in the 80's, we probably would have heard that the American Indians were process theologians.<br />Those seeking a different view might consider D. Bloesch's GOD THE ALMIGHTY and M. Erickson's GOD THE FATHER ALMIGHTY.	2000-10-04
US	52963744	R12BBGZO38RPNB	0140154957	552026536	History of the World, The Penguin: Revised Edition (Penguin History)	Books	5	15	18	N	N	Very Enjoyable	J. M. Roberts has written a very enjoyable one volume history of the  world.  It's true that it is &quot;dense,&quot; but what can you expect  from a history of the world.  It took me a year to get through, but I'm not  apologizing.  In addition, I can't agree with the idea that Roberts ignores  or even marginalizes other cultures.  He spends significant portions of the  book on the Middle East and the Far East, China and India in particular.   Considering that I read the book in bits and pieces, if there is an  overarching theme to the book, I didn't detect one.  I did find Roberts'  judgments balanced.  Readers who are interested in studying various  theories of history should consider Brander's STARING INTO CHAOS, a book  describing the thought of Toynbee, Spengler and Sorokin.	2000-09-16
US	52963744	RXS6BAI1QKI7A	1559390220	902713020	The Dalai Lama: A Policy of Kindness -  An Anthology of Writings By and About The Dalai Lama	Books	3	4	32	N	N	New Age When New Age Wasn't Cool?	This book contains a number of interesting articles about the Dalai Lama  as well as many illuminating speeches and addresses by him.  One can't but  be impressed by his concern for the suffering of the Tibetan people.  At  the same time - as a theist - I find much of what he teaches quite  troubling.  For example: &quot;Since all the substances for enlightenment  exist within ourselves, we should not look for Buddhahood somewhere  else.&quot; [p. 79.] &quot;Basically all the great teachers, such as  Guatama Buddha, Jesus Christ, or Mohammed, founded their new teachings with  a motivation for helping their fellow humans.&quot; [p. 57.]  &quot;Buddhists do not accept a creator; Christians base their philosophy  on that theory.&quot; [p. 54.]<br />At least as reflected in this collection,  the Dalai Lama's teaching is directly contrary to historic monotheism:  there is no personal god, no created universe, no ultimate accountability,  no sin.  Man's solution is to look within.  Not surprisingly, this  &quot;psychological&quot; approach is in accord with our therapeutic  culture.  Indeed, much of today's &quot;new age&quot; movement seems to be  taking its cues from Buddhism.  In light of the &quot;atheistic&quot; (for  lack of a better term) nature of the Dalai Lama's teachings, it is sad that  may supposedly orthodox monotheists like John Paul II are so quick to  praise him.	2000-09-03
US	52963744	R3CX9ZSEFCDXX4	1859847730	513688777	The Holocaust Industry: Reflections on the Exploitation of Jewish Suffering	Books	3	115	148	N	N	Worth Reading	This book is subtitled &quot;Reflections on the Exploitation of Jewish Suffering.&quot;  The holocaust is the most exploited event of recent  history and a book on this topic is needed; however, I'm not sure Mr.  Finkelstein has written the definitive study.  The book covers a lot of  territory in only 150 pages (with extensive footnotes) and its conclusions  can be as overdrawn as some of those in the holocaust industry.  Mr.  Finkelstein travels at breakneck speed giving a barrage of quotes, making  broad and unsupported statements, and then skipping to a new subject just  when some qualification is in order.<br />The Holocaust Industry is divided  into three chapters: (1) Capitalizing On The Holocaust, on the uses of the  holocaust; (2) Hoaxers, Hucksters, and History, on various holocaust frauds  and historical revisionists; and (3) The Double Shakedown, on reparations.   Since I know next to nothing about the reparation issue, I'll restrict my  comments to the first two chapters.  <br />Chapter 1 contains some interesting  discussion on how groups have capitalized on the holocaust for political  and financial gain. But just when the reader expects to get a discussion of  this, we are given an account of Jewish involvement in American politics  which doesn't seem to have much to do with the central theme of the book,  or at the least isn't tied in.  While it's true that &quot;evoking historic  persecution deflected present-day criticism&quot;, I don't see how the  opposition of certain Jews to quotas is connected with exploiting the  holocaust. [pps. 36-37.]  Mr. Finkelstein could have made his point better  if he gave examples (of which there are many) of right-wingers being  falsely accused of anti-semitism; however, he appears to be rather left of  center (to put it mildly). <br />Chapter 2 is the most interesting.  We are  often told that the holocaust is a &quot;unique event.&quot;  Yet few are  willing to draw the obvious conclusion, that &quot;[t]he claims of  Holocaust uniqueness are intellectually barren and morally discreditable,  yet they persist.  The question is, Why?  In the first place, unique  suffering confers unique entitlement.  The unique evil of the Holocaust,  according Jacob Neusner, not only sets Jews apart from others, but also  gives Jews a `claim upon those others.'&quot; [p. 47.]  (It isn't clear  from this quote whether Rabbi Neusner in fact believes in the uniqueness of  the holocaust.)   We might then expect a discussion of those historical  events on a par with the holocaust, but instead we have to wait to the  Conclusion, and we get a litany of real and imagined offenses of the United  States.  While Mr. Finkelstein mentions the Cambodian genocide, I don't  think he refers even in passing to perhaps the most evil event of the  Twentieth Century: Stalin's murder of 5 to 10 million Ukrainians, an event  that dwarfs the holocaust.  Nor does he mention the millions killed  directly or indirectly by Mao in the Cultural Revolution, a number which  some historians place as high as 40 million.  The Armenian genocide is only  mentioned in passing. [pps. 69-70.]  (There is no index, so I could be  wrong.)  These events strike me as a little bit worse than the U.S. support  for the Guatemalan government in the 1980's. [p. 146.] There is also a  curious discussion of the (alleged) belief in the &quot;total blamelessness  [of] Jews . . . .&quot; [p. 52.] While Mr. Finkelstein implies that Jews  have provoked justifiable hostility in gentiles, nowhere are we told just  what they done to incite anger.<br />While I promised not to comment on  Chapter 3, Mr. Finkelstein makes a point that strikes me as worthy of  mention: it is generally conceded that there were approximately 100,000  holocaust survivors at the end of World War II.  How is it then that so  many more people have claimed to be holocaust survivors?<br />This book asks  many interesting questions and presents much useful information.  It  certainly isn't the last word.	2000-08-29
US	52963744	R1POGZU3EV9CGR	1858985706	330597875	The Logic of Action II: Applications and Criticism from the Austrian School (Economists of the Twentieth Century) (v. 2)	Books	5	8	9	N	N	The Logic of Rothbard	Murray Rothbard was one of the most powerful thinkers of the 20th century.  Some of his most important work was printed in journals, out-of-print  anthologies, presented at scholarly conferences, or available only in  pamphlets. Fortunately, many of these essays are now collected in The Logic  of Action (2 volumes), one of Edward Elgar's Economists of the Twentieth  Century series<br />Volume 2 of the Logic of Action is subtitled  &quot;Applications and Criticism from the Austrian School.&quot; The range  of these essays is simply incredible, and it's hard for a reviewer to know  where to start. So, I might as well start with the first essay, Freedom,  Inequality, Primitivism, and the Division of Labor.  As usual, Rothbard's  reading is immense and he briliantly refutes the claims of primitivists  that specialization is somehow the cause of our problems rather than the  necessary result of an increasing standard of living.  In fact, communists  import an almost religious devotion to their communism that Kautsky even  said that under communism &quot;[t]he human average will rise to the level  of an Aristotle, a Goethe, a Marx.  Above these other heights new peaks  will arise.&quot;  <br />Another brilliant essay is the last, Karl Marx:  Communist as Religious Eschatologist.  Rothbard gets to the crux of the  matter: &quot;The Key to the intricate and massive system of thought  created by Karl Marx is at bottom a simple one: Karl Marx was a  communist.&quot;  As against those who would downplay Marx's religious  drive to create a utopian society, Rothbard shows that Marx is just one of  many &quot;religious eschatologists.&quot;  <br />In between these two essays  there are 20 more.  Whether it's &quot;value free&quot; economics, free  banking in Scotland, marginal productivity theory, or Henry George's  fallacies, Rothbard always has something brilliant to say.  I really  enjoyed The Myth of Tax &quot;Reform&quot;, which should be read by every  conservative activist.  &quot;Every economic activity that escapes taxes  and controls is not only a blow for freedom and property rights: it is also  one more instance of a free flow of productive energy getting out from  under parasitic repression.  That is why we should welcome every new  loophole, shelter, credit or exemption, and work, not to shut them down but  to expand them to include everyone else, including ourselves.&quot;<br />As  David Gordon and Hans-Hermann Hoppe state in their introduction: &quot;No  introduction can do justice to the vast range and insight of Rothbard's  work. Anyone who completes these two volumes will have an indelible  impression of Rothbard's greatness.&quot;	2000-08-20
US	52963744	R1HJEQM9UOFC5H	1858980151	594287629	The Logic of Action I: Method, Money, and the Austrian School (Economists of the Twentieth Century) (v. 1)	Books	5	14	15	N	N	The Logic of Rothbard	Murray Rothbard was one of the most powerful thinkers of the 20th century.  Some of his most important work was printed in journals, out-of-print  anthologies, presented at scholarly conferences, or available only in  pamphlets.  Fortunately, many of these essays are now collected in The  Logic of Action (2 volumes), one of Edward Elgar's Economists of the  Twentieth Century series<br />Volume 1 of the Logic of Action is subtitled  &quot;Method, Money, and the Austrian School.&quot;  The range of these  essays is simply incredible, and it's hard for a reviewer to know where to  start.  So, I might as well start with the first essay, The Mantle of  Science.  Here, Rothbard demolishes the claims of scientism.  He must  refute a dozen fallacies in 20 pages (such as false anologies to science  like model-building, etc.).  This essay was written in 1957 (but not  published until 1960) when Rothbard traveled in Ayn Rand's circle.   Incredibly, some Randroids even accused Rothbard of plagiarizing from Rand  (see Justin Raimondo's excellent biography of Rothbard, An Enemy of the  State, for details.)  This prompted the great von Mises' response: &quot;I  really did not know that the concept that man has no automatic knowledge of  how to survive and that the task of his reason . . . is to keep him alive  was not known to mankind before the fall of 1957.&quot;<br />Another  path-breaking work is the essay, The Present State of Austrian Economics,  presented at a scholary conference in 1992. Rothbard describes the path  taken by Austrian economists in recent years and the divergence of  Hayekians and Lachmannians from a Misesian persepective.<br />As David Gordon  and Hans-Hermann Hoppe state in their introduction: &quot;No introduction  can do justice to the vast range and insight of Rothbard's work.  Anyone  who completes these two volumes will have an indelible impression of  Rothbard's greatness.&quot;	2000-08-13
US	52963744	R2RF06P5DVB9Z7	1573928097	317628734	An Enemy of the State: The Life of Murray N. Rothbard	Books	4	19	25	N	N	Quite Good	When the history of liberty in the 20th Century is written, Murray  Rothbard will have pride of place.  Raimondo has written a book that is  part biography of Rothbard and part discussion of his ideas.  While this  book isn't completely satisfying on either front, taken as a whole it is  quite enjoyable.  I learned a great deal about Rothbard that I didn't know.   Rothbard's ties to the Old Right is a good example of this.<br />I say the  book isn't satisfying on either front because it could have been fleshed  out in certain places and shown a little more critical judgment in others.   For example, Raimondo only briefly mentions Rothbard's 4 volume history of  early America (Conceived in Liberty), and the first mention of it doesn't  even state the name.  No where are we told how Rothbard became such a  scholar on American history.  The discussion of how Man, Economy, and State  came to be written could have been clearer as well.  <br />As far as the lack  of critical judgment, the best example is Rothbard's acceptance of the  Leftist line about the Soviet Union being only concerned about  self-preservation.  How this squares with USSR's history of expansion from  its invasion of Poland in the 1920s to Afghanistan in 1979 is beyond me.   Raimondo doesn't attempt to tell us either.<br />But that being said, I  enjoyed this book and recommend it highly.	2000-08-09
US	52963744	R2ZLJLJB9PFYWQ	089526787X	828769414	The Wise Men Know What Wicked Things Are Written on the Sky	Books	5	14	14	N	N	Excellent	Russell Kirk was one of the most brilliant conservative thinkers of the  20th century.  This book -- a collection of lectures given between 1982 and  1984 -- provides an excellent introduction to his thought.  The topic of  the lectures is: &quot;Is the American Republic descending into decadence,  or are the American people entering upon a renewal of belief and  hope.&quot;<br />Kirk's analysis is as accurate now as it was then.  For  example, in writing about US foreign policy and &quot;human rights,&quot;  his insights are just as applicable today to US meddling in other  countries, such as the foolish war against Serbia.  Or, his case against  the use of computers in education is all the more valuable when getting the  internet into every class is proclaimed a national policy.  I particularly  liked the story of how he threw the TV in the trash when he found his  family watching it.<br />But this book isn't just grumbling about the state of  American culture.  It is a deep reflection on what Kirk considered  America's mission: &quot;to reconcile the claims of order and the claims of  freedom: to maintain in an age of ferocious ideologies and fantastic  schemes a model of justice.&quot;	2000-08-05
US	52963744	R19JRDJV1B1C03	0872202224	518677269	God (Hackett Readings in Philosophy)	Books	5	11	12	N	N	Excellent	This is a useful anthology of writings on God.  In 225 pages you get 23 contributors, so all the selections are of a reasonable length.  The best part of the book is the nature of the contributors.  Rather than just  having philosophers, the editor selected writers not normally found in  philosophy of religion anthologies such as Otto, Eliade, Freud, Camus and  Buber.	2000-07-23
US	52963744	R3J6P4EK70762P	0465045219	200270487	Mind, Language And Society: Philosophy In The Real World (Masterminds)	Books	4	2	5	N	N	A Philosopher for the Real World	John Searle is one of America's most prominent philosophers.  Although he always writes clearly, some of his works (such as Speech Acts and Intentionality) are of an unavoidably technical nature.  However, here he  distills his work there (and in other places) down to its essence.  This  work then is an excellent introduction to his thought as well as an  excellent introduction to philosophy.  Searle is particularly good when he  attacks scepticism.  I don't, however, agree with his apparent agnosticism  [pps. 36-37].	2000-07-04
US	52963744	R2M3F9GA6AR6T1	006060381X	278596244	When Science Meets Religion: Enemies, Strangers, or Partners?	Books	3	15	38	N	N	Good and Bad	According to the blurb on the book by John Polkinghorne, Ian Barbour is the &quot;doyen of contemporary writers on science and theology.&quot; His Gifford lectures are widely quoted, for example.  Barbour sets forth four  approaches to the relationship between science and theology: conflict,  independence, dialogue &amp; integration.  He then discusses the various  topics setting forth the view of each of these positions.  The end result  is a short work that is quite comprehensive and informative particularly in  light of Barbour's discussing such a wide range of topics, including  astronomy, quantum physics, evolution, sociobiology, genetics, and human  nature.  While there is a lot to commend about this book, there is much  with which I disagree.  Most importantly, Barbour rejects the  &quot;classical&quot; view of God and shows sympathy for process theology.   While he attacks the alleged presuppositions of the classical view of God,  he doesn't seem to question what the presuppositions of the process view  are.  Also, Barbour is unfair to creation science, which he says &quot;is a  threat to both religious and scientific freedom.&quot; [p. 16.] He even  links the movement with Islamic &quot;fundamentalism&quot; in Iran. [Id.]    Like a typical liberal, he professes tolerance, but is rather intolerant of  those with whom he disagrees.  In any event, Barbour is wrong to label  Moslems &quot;fundamentalists.&quot;  Fundamentalism was born in the early  1900s in the conservative Protestant community in the United States and is  now limited to advocates of premillenial dispensationalism.  Moslems are  not fundamentalists and I have never heard a single Moslem so describe  himself.  Finally, Barbour has the annoying habit of italicizing something  in almost every paragraph.	2000-06-26
US	52963744	R2NADRH4X8158F	0826209769	725622633	Beautiful Losers: Essays on the Failure of American Conservatism	Books	5	37	39	N	N	Brilliant	This is a brilliant collection of essays by Dr. Samuel Francis, perhaps the leading paleoconservative writer today.  As many people don't know, most of today's so-called &quot;conservative&quot; thinkers are in fact  &quot;neo-conservatives,&quot; or as Francis says &quot;neo-liberals.&quot;   They accept many of the premises of liberalism, but think liberalism went  to far in the 70's.  Rather than providing an alternative to the liberals,  they are just another aspect of what Francis' mentor, James Burnham, called  the &quot;managerial class.&quot;  This collection contains excellent  essays on Martin Luther King, Joe McCarthy and other subjects.	2000-06-25
US	52963744	R2TPUOX4ELNBIY	0192876953	123834581	Frege (Past Masters)	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Excellent	This is an excellent introduction to the thought of Frege, an understanding of whom is essential to the study of modern philosophy...I think it is quite well-written; however, some of the discussion is rather technical for a book in the Past Masters series.	2000-06-17
US	52963744	R3GME2YF9698E3	0271014415	448978191	Ayn Rand: The Russian Radical	Books	4	9	12	N	N	Interesting Approach	Chris Matthew Sciabarra has written an interesting book on the origins of Ayn Rand's thought.  He argues that Rand is a &quot;dialectical&quot; thinker in the tradition of her Russian philosophy professors such as N. O.  Lossky.  Sciabarra presents historical evidence of this and also shows  similarities between the thought of Rand and other thinkers in the  dialectical tradition.<br />Ultimately, however, I'm not convinced.  While  there are interesting parallels, it seems to me that one can say the same  thing with respect to all sorts of thinkers.  It's easy to find  similarities between thinkers and jump to the conclusion that one  influenced the other, or that thinker B is &quot;really&quot; saying the  same thing as A.<br />That being said, Prof. Sciabarra is an excellent writer  with a tremendous grasp of Rand's thought and the relevant literature.   Drawing on this, he provides one of the best discussions of Rand's  philosophy.  For example, the chapture &quot;Being&quot; is outstanding.   <br />As Mr. Scott Ryan has noted, Rand's transcript has now been found.  In  addition, more of Rand's journals have been released.  I hope that Prof.  Sciabarra updates this valuable work.	2000-06-17
US	52963744	RYHV9VWER94QP	0631208429	136389664	Science and Religion: An Introduction	Books	4	10	12	N	N	Excellent	Alister McGrath has written an excellent book providing background information for anyone seeking to understand the relationship between science and religion.  The book is valuable because McGrath provides  historical background to the issue as well as discussing some issues  topically.  He then provides &quot;case studies&quot; as well as brief  discussion of particular authors who are important in this field such as  Barbour, de Chardin and Panenberg.<br />I do have some small criticisms.   First, McGrath's discussion of Fundamentalism seems somewhat unfair and  focuses on the worst parts of the movement.  Second, some of the  bigrpahical studies are a little too short (probably inevitable in a survey  work).  Third, McGrath only mentions the work of Stanley Jaki once.  I  think Jaki deserved a separate section, along with other prominent writers  on the subject.	2000-06-16
US	52963744	R3ULCEQFSZCDEN	0812693906	127294983	The Ayn Rand Cult	Books	3	1	1	N	N	One Stop Shopping, at a Price	Jeff Walker's 1999 THE AYN RAND CULT is still the only book that discusses the Objectivist movement from Rand on.  I agree that it contains too much hearsay and innuendo about the personal lives of some of the people involved, but if you want one stop shopping for all your Randian needs, this is the place to go.  Walker discusses Rand's life, her ideas, the Objectivist movement while she was alive, and the movement since her death, including the various schisms and purges. <br />  <br />TARC's best chapter is on Rand's self-proclaimed \\"intellectual heir\\" Leonard Peikoff.  Peikoff has done quite well repackaging and repeating Rand's work, but virtually nothing to build on Rand's ideas.  Noting that Peikoff had a couple papers (one on Plato and one on Aristotle) published in third-tier journals, Walker says wickedly, \\"his preferred activity . . . is to excoriate the philosophy professors who publish in the first-tier and second-tier journals.\\"  And some things never change.   It's been eight years since TARC and Peikoff still hasn't done anything to advance the cause of Objectivism intellectually.   Peikoff says he is working on books solving the problem of induction and explaining the rise and fall of civilizations, so we'll see. <br /> <br />And the schisms and denunciations haven't stopped either.  In the last few years there have been two or three major ones, a host of minor ones, and an ex cathedra statement by Peikoff declaring that if you don't agree with his view of voting, you don't understand Objectivism. <br /> <br />Walker is also quite good on Rand's claim of originality.  There is a fascinating discussion of some of the precursors to Rand's idea of the heroic businessman. <br />	2000-06-14
US	52963744	R3N70SCTGMWZPA	089870748X	162153640	The Unity of Philosophical Experience	Books	5	37	39	N	N	A Gem	This book is part history of philosophy, part history of philosophizing, and -- and its own way -- part introduction to philosophy.  In so doing, Etienne Gilson shows the &quot;unity of philosophical experience&quot;  through a study of important philosophers.<br />Etienne Gilson was one of the  greatest historians of philosophy in the 20th century.  His brilliance  shows throughout this work and so much could be quoted.  For example:  &quot;As soon as Descartes published it, it became apparent that, like  Caesar's wife, the existence of the world should be above suspicion . . . .  Descartes had endeavored to prove something that could not be proved, not  beacause it is not true, but on the contrary, beacause it is evident.&quot;  (p. 146.)<br />If you are new to the study of philosophy, get this book for an  introduction; if you are familiar with philosophy, this is a great  &quot;refresher course.&quot;	2000-06-14
US	52963744	RU45UQXQWDKJA	0140249079	586405329	Modern Philosophy: An Introduction and Survey	Books	4	17	18	N	N	Excellent	Roger Scruton provides an excellent introduction and survey (500 pages plus notes).  The best part of the book is that it is organized topically; so, rather than a series of short biographical studies, you get an overview  of an issue.  For example, there is an excellent discussion of what Frege,  Russell, Meinong &amp; Strawson were trying to accomplish.<br />Scruton is  also funny: &quot;[Ayer's] Language, Truth and Logic . . . should be read  if possible, provided it is read quickly and innatentively.  The details of  the argument are preposterous . . . .&quot;	2000-06-14
US	52963744	R3AGDWMQ7NUGX2	0452280400	797864421	The Ayn Rand Reader	Books	3	18	42	N	N	Could Have Been Worse	This is a well-edited colection of Ayn Rand's writings.  It is quite good in light of the fact that it contains selections from her fiction and non-fiction writings.  For those of us who have a hard time getting through  her over-blown, ponderous works of literature, having the key philosophical  portions excerpted in one book is a good idea.  Also, the book contains  only stuff by Rand and therfore is not contaminated by her second-hand  followers, like some other collections of her works.<br />One thing about the  book is interesting.  Editor Gary Hull tells us that &quot;I have, of  course, made no changes in AR's own words.&quot;  That's not accurate.  In  the selection &quot;Attila and the Witch Doctor&quot; which was originally  published in FOR THE NEW INTELLECTUAL, Rand states in a footnote: &quot;I  am indebted to Nathaniel Branden for many valuable observations on this  subject and for his eloquent designation of the two archetypes . . .&quot;  (FNI, 14.)  Although the paragraph to which this footnote is keyed is  quoted in full in the READER, this footnote is left out.	2000-06-13
US	52963744	R1XZPYHY9SVZWI	0452010306	107700468	Introduction to Objectivist Epistemology: Expanded Second Edition	Books	2	14	28	N	N	This Book Will Not Save Western Civilization	Ayn Rand (1905-1982) was a novelist and philosopher who created a neo-Aristotelian philosophy which she called \\"Objectivism.\\"  Her most important work of fiction was ATLAS SHRUGGED, an epic struggle of individual freedom versus the mass state.  Her followers consider INTRODUCTION TO OBJECTIVIST EPISTEMOLOGY (ITOE) her most important work of philosophy.<br /><br />According to Rand, mankind is at something of a philosophical impasse due to the failure of philosophers to solve the \\"problem of universals\\" (which she believes is synonymous with the psychological question of concept formation).  She starts ITOE with a highly misleading categorization of the subgroups within realism and nominalism.  Rand's theory runs into problems out the gate based on the way she frames the issue.  First, universals and concepts aren't the same thing.  In addition, the problem of universals is a question for metaphysics.  When analyzed as a metaphysical question, the theory Rand advances is a version of moderate nominalism or (perhaps) moderate realism.<br /><br />The heart of ITOE is a rather elaborate theory of abstraction.  Rand starts with a child who views three objects (a pencil, match and stick).  The child then abstracts the concept \\"length.\\"  Rand next uses the example of a table.  Rand may give a plausible explanation of how a child forms such simple concepts, but it doesn't explain how children form abstract concepts or conjunctions.  (Rand does try to show how conjunctions are arrived at, but the discussion is almost unintelligible.)<br /><br />A more fundamental problem is that Rand presents no evidence that children do in fact form concepts the way she describes.  She muddies the waters still further by apparently backtracking on her theory with statements such as \\"The child does not think in such words (he has, as yet, no knowledge of words), but that is the nature of the process which his mind performs wordlessly.\\" [P. 11; see also pp. 43 & 66.]<br /><br />In any event the above passage does indicate that children can form concepts even in the absence of language.  However, she states on p. 167 that a child does not form a concept until he gives \\"it\\" (the concept that is not a concept) a \\"name.\\" So apparently children do not think conceptually until they learn language.  Trying to come up with a coherent explanation of how Rand viewed the relationship between words and universals is hopeless, as others have pointed out.<br /><br />Not content to explain child psychology from her armchair, Rand even tells us how animals think: \\"If the state of an animal's perceptual awareness could be translated into words, it would amount to a disconnected succession of random moments . . . .\\" [P. 57.]  Again, what's the proof?  Indeed, Rand even contradicts herself on the issue of whether animals can think conceptually.  [Cf. p. 62.]<br /><br />I'm tempted to think that what Rand is really attempting to do is develop an explanation of how concepts are in fact objective.  In other words, if we have to we are able to trace our concepts back to their empirical referents.  At the same time, Rand pretty clearly thinks her theory explains more than that.<br /><br />For critiques of Rand's theory of universals, I suggest Scott Ryan's book OBJECTIVISM AND THE CORRUPTION OF RATIONALITY and also Wallace Matson's essay in THE PHILOSOPHIC THOUGHT OF AYN RAND.<br /><br />For background material on the question of universals, I recommend D. H. Armstrong's book UNIVERSALS: AN OPINIONATED INTRODUCTION.<br /><br />Considering that ITOE has been in print for years and been the subject of critiques for almost as long, you would think that Objectivists would have rushed to print with defenses.  The only one I'm aware of is David Kelley's article \\"A Theory of Abstraction\\", which I haven't read.y event the above passage does indicate that children can form concepts even in the absence of language.  However, she states on p. 167 that a child does not form a concept until he gives \\"it\\" (the concept that is not a concept) a \\"name.\\" So apparently children do not think conceptually until they learn language.  Trying to come up with a coherent explanation of how Rand viewed the relationship between words and universals is hopeless, as others have pointed out. <br /> <br />Not content to explain child psychology from her armchair, Rand even tells us how animals think: \\"If the state of an animal's perceptual awareness could be translated into words, it would amount to a disconnected succession of random moments . . . .\\" [P. 57.]  Again, what's the proof?  Indeed, Rand even contradicts herself on the issue of whether animals can think conceptually.  [Cf. p. 62.] <br /> <br />I'm tempted to think that what Rand is really attempting to do is develop an explanation of how concepts are in fact objective.  In other words, if we have to we are able to trace our concepts back to their empirical referents.  At the same time, Rand pretty clearly thinks her theory explains more than that. <br /> <br />For critiques of Rand's theory of universals, I suggest Scott Ryan's book OBJECTIVISM AND THE CORRUPTION OF RATIONALITY and also Wallace Matson's essay in THE PHILOSOPHIC THOUGHT OF AYN RAND.   <br /> <br />For background material on the question of universals, I recommend D. H. Armstrong's book UNIVERSALS: AN OPINIONATED INTRODUCTION. <br /> <br />Considering that ITOE has been in print for years and been the subject of critiques for almost as long, you would think that Objectivists would have rushed to print with defenses.   The only one I'm aware of is David Kelley's article \\"A Theory of Abstraction\\", which I haven't read.   <br />	2000-06-04
US	52963744	RJOJH5Q0PYNG6	0967041104	521495046	Ayn Rand's Theory of Knowledge	Books	1	4	21	N	N	Clunk!	I've recently started to study Ayn Rand's &quot;Introduction to Objectivist Epistemology&quot; (ITOE).  I decided to purchase Mr. Porter's paragraph by paragraph commentary in the hopes that it would illuminate  some of ITOE's obscure, contradictory and bizarre passages (which, come to  think of it, pretty well describes every sentence in the book).<br />Well,  call me philosophically unsophisticated, but I couldn't find a single  commment in Mr. Porter's book that helped me better understand ITOE.  (In  fairness to Mr. Porter, I didn't read the entire book, but I did read a  fair amount of it.)<br />There may be some gems of wisdom in Mr. Porter's  smarmy, know-it-all commentary, but I didn't find any.	2000-06-04
US	52963744	R3G7IFKNJFAZEH	0195127447	628847878	Mystics and Messiahs: Cults and New Religions in American History	Books	5	22	27	N	N	Outstanding	Philip Jenkins is one of America's best historians of religion, and also a frequent contributor to Chronicles magazine.  In this work, Jenkins shows us that concern over &quot;cults&quot; goes back to the 1800's and that  many of the allegations raised about modern cults (sex abuse, etc.) were  also made about groups in the past (which as Jenkins states, doesn't mean  that this is never found in certain fringe groups).<br />Prof. Jenkins makes  all sorts of interesting observations in this history of fringe groups,  such as that some practices like women ministers and speaking in tongues  were once considered far-out but are now considered mainstream.  (Just look  at the sorry state of &quot;evangelical&quot; Christianity in the U.S.)   But the best part of this book is that it is just good history: lots of  interesting facts and colorful characters.	2000-06-04
US	52963744	R12YV5XP1SDHIH	0252014073	416490323	The Philosophic Thought of Ayn Rand	Books	4	1	6	N	N	Still Valuable Collection of Essays	This collection of essays came out in 1984 and is a little bit dated in light of more recent work on Rand.  While the collection contains a couple of clunkers, it contains at least one real gem: J. Charles King's  &quot;Life and the Theory of Value,&quot; the best refutation of Rand's  ethics I'm aware of.	2000-06-03
US	52963744	R31FW9NG91C18O	0195087240	655888205	Seven Theories of Religion	Books	4	7	15	N	N	Excellent	This book provides an excellent background to the study of religion.  In addition, it introduces the reader to certain key ideas of various thinkers he might not get around to reading: Karl Marx, Sigmund Freud, James Frazer,  Mircea Eliade, E. E. Evans-Prichard, Clifford Geertz, and E. B. Tylor.  My  only problem with the book is that Pals does not introduce us to the  thought of a traditional Christian writer.	2000-06-03
US	52963744	R2IQAK2QDHHZA6	0802843956	74305167	Newman's Challenge	Books	4	6	7	N	N	I liked this book	This book consists of a number of essays by S.L. Jaki on the thought of John Henry Newman.  My knowledge of Newman is quite limited, so I can't comment on the subtance of this book.  However, I found that the articles  provided an interesting overview of Newman's thought on a variety of  subjects.  Jaki has a polemical style that gets in the way at times, but he  has interesting things to say about the ecumenical movement, scholastic  theology and evolution, among other things.	2000-05-31
US	52963744	R32YVSNK2I9WM7	0310224764	613882282	Five Views on Apologetics	Books	3	13	19	N	N	Can't we all just NOT get along?	This book is one in Zondervan's Counterpoints Series, which presents the view of various (mostly) Evangelical writers on theological subjects.  This book is sorely needed because Evangelical apologists have had a history of  writing critically and polemically of one another (one thinks of the  Clark/Van Til debate), with the result of the layman having a difficult  time deciding among the various positions.<br />The problem with this book is  either that the writers are too timid or are more irenic than their label  would indicate.  There are three authors who present variations on the  traditional approach: the classical method (Craig), the evidential method  (Habermas), and the cumulative case method (Feinberg).  These approaches  are quite similar, although some differences do arise.  When the reader  gets to John Frame's presuppositional method, he expects to get a starkly  different approach.  After all, Van Til was notorious for attacking  &quot;traditional&quot; apologetics as &quot;Roman Catholic&quot; or  &quot;Arminian.&quot;  Well, Frame tells us that he agrees with most of  what Craig writes.  The final writer, Kelly James Clark (who represents the  &quot;Reformed epistemological method&quot;), says the same  thing.<br />Perhaps the editor could have selected a follower of Gordon Clark  (a rationalist who denied the proofs of God's existence) or a fideist to  present a contrasting apologetic method.	2000-05-31
US	52963744	RO4JD2T8LHSC7	1570752605	891628655	John Paul II and Interreligious Dialogue (Faith Meets Faith Series)	Books	4	10	11	N	N	Good but not Great	This book contains numerous lengthy excerpts from John Paul II's writings and speeches about non-Christian religions.  It also contains essays about John Paul's view of non-Christian religions by Catholic and non-Catholic  writers.<br />The most surprising thing about JP II's theology of  non-Christian religions is how favorable he is.  Particularly in his  addresses to non-believers, his praise seems to know no bounds.  He refers  to Moslems as &quot;brothers in God&quot; and tells Buddhists and Shintoist  that &quot;On this earth we are pilgrims to the Absolute and Eternal.&quot;   This last statement is particularly strange in light of JP II's belief  that &quot;Buddhism is in large measure an 'atheistic' system.&quot;  (p.  53.)  At times one gets the impression that JP II thinks the problem with  the world is not a lack of Christianity, but a lack of  &quot;religion.&quot;  For those who think that JP II is a reactionary who  is opposed to all things non-Catholic, this book comes as quite an  eye-opener.<br />This leads to the major fault I have with the essays.  While  they are for the most part informative, the authors never ask the question  of how someone like JP II, who is supposed to be such a conservative,  orthodox Catholic, can be so favorable to non-Christian religions.  Could  it be that JP II is not the traditionally minded Catholic that the media  and his conservative followers portray him?  This question is never asked.   Not surprisingly, then, the essayists fail to interact with the one book I  am aware of that raises this question: Pope John Paul II's Theological  Journey to the Prayer Meeting of Religions at Assisi by Fr. J. Dormann.   The Dormann book (actually a series of three thus far) has some flaws.  He  is intent upon taking much of what JP II says in the least orthodox light,  and in the context of JP II's alleged universalism.  Nonetheless, the book  highlights important facets of JP II's theology.<br />All things considered,  this isan important and timely collection.	2000-05-30
US	52963744	R2B2Q140V2WOBO	0820441449	980409908	Ayn Rand	Books	5	14	28	N	N	Best Book on Rand	This is the best introduction to Ayn Rand available.  Because Prof. Machan was never a member of Rand's inner circle, he can write freely on her philosophy and discuss its strengths as well as weaknesses.  Nonetheless, Prof. Machan clearly admires Rand and considers her an important  philosopher.  <br />There are a number of merits to this book: (1) Prof.  Machan provides a clear overview of Rand's position on most philosophical  questions, placing prominence on Rand's axiomatic concepts; (2) the book  contains a solid discussion of Rand's works; and (3) chapter 7 - on various  questions that Rand failed to consider - is excellent.<br />There are some  weaknesses to the work as well. First, Prof. Machan doesn't spend enough  time on Rand's theory of concept formation, which her followers consider he  greatest contribution to philosophy.  Second, he is too kind to Rand when  it comes to her often unfair and inaccurate attacks on other philosophers.   While he says that Rand caricatures other thinkers, the fact is that Rand  had little knowledge of the history of philosophy and her discussion of  other philosophers is simply pathetic.  Anyone who doubts this should read  her essay, &quot;For the New Intellectual.&quot; Third, like many of Rand's  admirers, Prof. Machan overestimates Rand's originality.  The fact is that  most of Rand's ideas can be found in other writers.<br />In spite of its  flaws, this is generally an outstanding book.  I recommend it highly.	2000-05-03
US	52963744	R2M4Z9OB4UL3D3	1579212182	220011634	Reconsidering Ayn Rand	Books	3	10	19	N	N	OK	I can't add much to Scott Ryan's excellent (as usual) review.  However, while I think this book would be beneficial for Objectivists to read, it doesn't go beyond John Robbins' books on Rand.  It does have a good discussion of various problems in Rand's ethical theories.  In addition, it  does a good job in showing how Rand misunderstood Christianity.	2000-04-29
