US	52966758	R7XVCKZL4YESG	0674016653	573223782	Pay without Performance: The Unfulfilled Promise of Executive Compensation	Books	4	14	18	N	N	Great analysis; flawed reform proposals	I have been reading Pay Without Performance: The Unfulfilled Promise of Executive Compensation by (Harvard law professor) Lucian Bebchuk and (Boalt law prof) Jesse Fried. Bebchuk and Fried take issue with the standard academic account of executive compensation, which goes something like this: Executive compensation is a classic agency cost problem.  Although CEOs and other executives are agents of the corporation and its shareholders, they have incentives to shirk. Indeed, they have incentives to behave opportunistically - i.e., to maximize their own wealth and perks at the expense of their shareholder principals.  Accordingly, executive compensation schemes must be designed in ways that constrain shirking and opportunism; in other words, executive compensation schemes should strive to align executives' interests with those of the shareholders.  In the literature, this usually leads to a recommendation of some sort of performance-based pay scheme, typically entailing the use of stock options.<br /><br />Bebchuk and Fried do a good job of explaining why executive compensation schemes fail adequately to align managerial and shareholder interests. In brief, they make the very sensible point that managerial influence over the board of directors taints the process by which executive compensation is set. In other words, the system by which agency costs are to be checked is itself tainted by an agency cost problem.<br /><br />I get off the boat, however, when it comes to the solution. Bebchuk and Fried want to displace the time-tested corporate governance system of director primacy with an untested new system based on shareholder primacy. As regular readers of my academic work know, this is anathema in my book. (I'm writing a review of their book for the Texas Law Review, which will focus on this point, and which should be available on [...] in a month or two.)<br /><br />Having said that, however, Bebchuk and Fried are to be praised for having written a book that makes highly technical doctrinal and economic analysis accessible to the educated lay reader, while not dumbing down some very sophisticated analysis. As a result, the book remains useful to the specialist as well. It is definitely a book that anyone interested in corporate governance and executive compensation ought to own.kes highly technical doctrinal and economic analysis accessible to the educated lay reader, while not dumbing down some very sophisticated analysis. As a result, the book remains useful to the specialist as well. It is definitely a book that anyone interested in corporate governance and executive compensation ought to own.	2004-12-25
US	52966758	R34UQ10XF384MP	0805073396	564190816	What's the Matter with Kansas? How Conservatives Won the Heart of America	Books	1	29	105	N	N	He's not in Kansas anymore	In his influential book What's the Matter with Kansas?, left-liberal social critic Thomas Frank argued, as the Amazon.com reviewer explained, that \\"the conservative establishment has tricked Kansans, playing up the emotional touchstones of conservatism and perpetuating a sense of a vast liberal empire out to crush traditional values while barely ever discussing the Republicans' actual economic policies and what they mean to the working class. Thus the pro-life Kansas factory worker who listens to Rush Limbaugh will repeatedly vote for the party that is less likely to protect his safety, less likely to protect his job, and less likely to benefit him economically.\\"<br /><br />In a recent column on [...] however, journalist Steven Malanga claims that Franks' depiction of Kansas' economy is mistaken:<br /><br />\\"Kansas's economy has actually outpaced the nation's for years. Throughout the 1990s and the first part of this new decade, Kansas had a lower unemployment rate than the U.S. as a whole. In fact, when the country's unemployment rate dipped below 5% from 1997 to 2001, Kansas's fell under 4%--a level so low that economists basically consider it full employment. Overall, the state's economy added 256,000 new jobs during the 1990s, a 24% growth rate, compared with a 20% national gain in the same period. Even when the economic slowdown set in and the recession finally hit in 2002 and 2003, Kansas lost jobs at a slower rate than the national economy did.<br /><br />\\"It's the same story in the state's agricultural sector, which Mr. Frank claims the free market has driven \\"to a near state of collapse.\\" Yes, Kansas farm jobs shrank by about 9% in the 1990s, a result of farms becoming larger and more efficient (and producing more), but the state's total agricultural economy grew by 10%, some 30,000 jobs, as areas like food processing and agricultural wholesaling expanded.<br /><br />\\"The objects of Mr. Frank's particular concern, his hometown of Shawnee and the rest of Johnson County, have done especially well. For three years in the 1990s, the Shawnee area's unemployment rate actually dipped below 3%, making it one of the tightest labor markets anywhere.<br /><br />\\"When the recession hit, Shawnee's unemployment rate did rise, but it still stayed below the nation's. And though Mr. Frank describes the place as practically desolate, Shawnee's population grew by a robust 27% during the 1990s. Even more astonishing, today, only 3.3% of its citizens live below the poverty level, compared with about 12.5% nationally. \\"It's possible his view of us is outdated,\\" says Jim Martin, executive director of the Shawnee Economic Development Council, in classic Midwestern understatement.\\"<br /><br />In other words, even if you think the Amazon reviewer's hypothesized pro-life Kansan should vote his economic interests over his moral values, that hypothetical Kansan still ought to vote Republican.st of Johnson County, have done especially well. For three years in the 1990s, the Shawnee area's unemployment rate actually dipped below 3%, making it one of the tightest labor markets anywhere.  <br /> <br />\\"When the recession hit, Shawnee's unemployment rate did rise, but it still stayed below the nation's. And though Mr. Frank describes the place as practically desolate, Shawnee's population grew by a robust 27% during the 1990s. Even more astonishing, today, only 3.3% of its citizens live below the poverty level, compared with about 12.5% nationally. \\"It's possible his view of us is outdated,\\" says Jim Martin, executive director of the Shawnee Economic Development Council, in classic Midwestern understatement.\\" <br /> <br />In other words, even if you think the Amazon reviewer's hypothesized pro-life Kansan should vote his economic interests over his moral values, that hypothetical Kansan still ought to vote Republican.	2004-12-25
US	52966758	R1RCV2TSMABGVV	0425188361	549489959	Cerulean Sins (Anita Blake, Vampire Hunter, Book 11)	Books	1	22	25	N	N	I really don't like Anita Blake anymore	So I was looking for a light and entertaining book to read over lunch. Unfortunately, pickings were mighty slim at the LuValle bookstore next to the law school. As a last resort, I grabbed a copy of Laurell K. Hamilton's Cerulean Sins. Big mistake.<br /><br />I used to be quite a fan of Hamilton's Anita Blake series, but I eventually lost interest in it. Fifty pages into Cerulean Sins, I remembered why.<br /><br />It's not just the gratuitous S&M-tinged sex and violence. It's not just the incredibly formulaic plots (big bad vampire comes to town; Anita's not allowed to kill vampire bad guy due to some contrived rule of vampire politics; after killing and screwing lots of other folks, Anita finally gets to kill the bad guy. Yawn).<br /><br />It's simply that the main characters have become so unlikeable. Anita Blake is the worst of the lot. She's a insufferably smug psychopathic [...] who is constantly pissed off at something and whose first reaction to somebody new is either to screw them, kill them, or both. She's also one of the most remarkably self-centered major characters I've ever encountered, leaving behind a trail of broken hearts and (dare I say it?) blue balls wherever she goes. (One of the oddities of the series is that, despite the amount of sex in the books, Blake is always leaving somebody high and dry.)<br /><br />It's a bad thing when you root for the bad guys. It's much worse, however, when you want the bad guys to obliterate the story's only POV character. But that's what I want.	2004-12-25
US	52966758	R3V401G0VAWVSX	0345461924	846543535	Six Days of War: June 1967 and the Making of the Modern Middle East	Books	4	4	9	N	N	Solid analysis of a key turning point	As an Army brat who spent much of his formative years in the South, I have a natural interest in military history. In our post-9/11 world, moreover, understanding what's going on in the Middle East has become essential. The thesis of Michael Oren's Six Days of War is that the 1967 war shaped - and continues to shape - the central problem of our age. Unlike much military history, Oren's account focuses to a considerable extent on the diplomatic context. Events at the UN, in Washington and Moscow, as well as Tel Aviv and key Arab capitals, play a significant role. Indeed, the chapters and sections focusing on diplomacy are far easier to grasp than the battle sequences, which assume a knowledge of Middle East geography that many general readers will lack. (I found myself referring to the few maps constantly, but with frustration because many locations mentioned in the text appear on none of the maps.) Oren's ready acceptance of the Israeli version of the USS Libery incident will also raise some hackles with many US readers. Having said that, however, I strongly recommend this important analysis of a key turning point in recent history.	2004-02-29
US	52966758	R3I2KL79MPLUY8	031230935X	702211299	Gettysburg: A Novel of the Civil War	Books	5	6	7	N	Y	Outstanding alternative history	Newt Gingrich as novelist? Revolutionary? Sure. Ideologue? You bet. Philanderer? Probably. But novelist? Surprisingly enough, Gettysburg turns out to be one of the best alternative military history novels I've read in ages. Sure, the &quot;what if Lee had one at Gettysburg?&quot; is the oldest cliche in alternative history but Gingrich and Forstchen have turned in a winning variant. After day 1 at gettysburg, Lee is persuaded by Longstreet to pull out and do a long march around Meade's flank to get astride Meade's line of communications with Washington. It is Second Manassas all over again. I will refrain from any additional spoliers, except for noting that Westminster, Md., burns. As someone who went to college in that burg, I always thought it could stand a good burning!<br />The writing style is clear, if a bit MTV-ish in its rapid scene cuts, and maps make the action easy to follow. (Harry Turtledove, please take note of the utility of maps!) It's impossible to know how much credit to give Gingrich as opposed to Forstchen (or a third contributor, one Albert Hanser, who is identified merely as a &quot;contributing editor&quot;). But it works, which is what really matters. The old cliche &quot;un-put-downable&quot; is really true here -- I stayed up until 1:30 am reading it.<br />This is the first book in a planned trilogy. The obvious comparison is with Harry Turtledove's civil war series. (Not Guns of the South, which is entirely separate, but rather the series that started with &quot;How Few Remain.&quot;) Its been pretty easy to spot where Turtledove is going: he's just rewriting the First and Second World Wars on American soil. In contrast, it is hard to tell where Gingrich and Forstchen are going. In real history, the North had such an overwhelming superiority in manpower, industrial output, and railrod lines that the South had no real chance. All Lincoln had to do was find a general who &quot;understood the mathematics.&quot; Gingrich and Forstchen clearly know this: several characters make reference to these advantages at several points in the novel. But why write three books of alternative history to get to the same point as real history -- a Union victory -- by a different route? Anyway, it should be an interesting ride.know this: several characters make reference to these advantages at several points in the novel. But why write three books of alternative history to get to the same point as real history -- a Union victory -- by a different route? Anyway, it should be an interesting ride.	2003-07-16
US	52966758	R2YT1GNMMTSDSV	0679642498	48597860	The Company: A Short History of a Revolutionary Idea (Modern Library Chronicles)	Books	3	31	34	N	N	Useful descriptive account but normatively disappointing	Although I would recommend this text to generalist readers seeking a (remarkably) concise introduction to history of the business corporation, I came away somewhat disappointed. There is little doubt Micklethwait and Wooldridge are correct in their claim that the corporation is now the key economic institution in Western nations. Yet, it did not have to turn out that way. As Micklethwait and Wooldridge usefully remind us, two centuries ago, leading business and economic thinkers (including the great Adam Smith) derided the joint stock company.  What explains the relatively rapid development in the mid-19th century of a recognizably modern corporation and, in turn, that entity's emergence as the dominant form of economic organization?<br />Micklethwait and Wooldridge offer a fairly conventional answer to that question, based largely on new technologies -- especially the railroad -- requiring vast amounts of capital, the advantages such large firms derived from economies of scale, the emergence of limited liability that made it practicable to raise large sums from numerous passive investors, and the rise of professional management.  Readers familiar with the work of business historian Alfred Chandler will find relatively little new in this part of the story, although Micklethwait and Woolridge's treatment has the advantage for generalist readers of being considerably more accessible than is most of Chandler's work.  Instead of offering any novel historical analysis, Micklethwait and Wooldridge's principal potential contribution (albeit one they failed adequately to realize) is the normative thesis to be derived from the historical account.<br />In their introduction, Micklethwait and Wooldridge's lay out a claim that will be familiar to readers of Michael Novak's work (surprisingly, however, they seem unaware of his seminal work). Like Novak, Micklethwait and Wooldridge argue not only that the corporation is one of \\"the West's great competitive advantages,\\" but also that the number of private-sector corporations a country boasts is a relatively good guide to the degree of political freedom it provides its citizens. (xx) Unfortunately, this insight goes nowhere.<br />The normative claim is entirely plausible. The rise of modern corporations did more than just expand the economic pie. The legal system that facilitated their rise necessarily allowed individuals freedom to pursue the accumulation of wealth. Economic liberty, in turn, proved a necessary concomitant of personal liberty-the two have almost always marched hand in hand. In turn, the modern public corporation has turned out to be a powerful engine for focusing the efforts of individuals to maintain the requisite sphere of economic liberty. Those whose livelihood depends on corporate enterprise cannot be neutral about political systems. Only democratic capitalist societies permit voluntary formation of private corporations and allot them a sphere of economic liberty within which to function, which gives those who value such enterprises a powerful incentive to resist both statism and socialism. As Michael Novak has observed, private property and freedom of contract were indispensable if private business corporations were to come into existence. In turn, the corporation gave liberty economic substance over and against the state. Regrettably, after laying it out, Micklethwait and Wooldridge fail to pursue this thesis. Instead, their book lapses into a rather sterile historical description.	2003-06-17
US	52966758	R257IM5E28TJNP	0679642498	48597860	The Company: A Short History of a Revolutionary Idea (Modern Library Chronicles)	Books	3	22	28	N	N	Useful descriptive account but normatively disappointing	Although I would recommend this text to generalist readers seeking a (remarkably) concise introduction to history of the business corporation, I came away somewhat disappointed. There is little doubt Micklethwait and Wooldridge are correct in their claim that the corporation is now the key economic institution in Western nations. Yet, it did not have to turn out that way. As Micklethwait and Wooldridge usefully remind us, two centuries ago, leading business and economic thinkers (including the great Adam Smith) derided the joint stock company.  What explains the relatively rapid development in the mid-19th century of a recognizably modern corporation and, in turn, that entity's emergence as the dominant form of economic organization?<br />Micklethwait and Wooldridge offer a fairly conventional answer to that question, based largely on new technologies -- especially the railroad -- requiring vast amounts of capital, the advantages such large firms derived from economies of scale, the emergence of limited liability that made it practicable to raise large sums from numerous passive investors, and the rise of professional management.  Readers familiar with the work of business historian Alfred Chandler will find relatively little new in this part of the story, although Micklethwait and Woolridge's treatment has the advantage for generalist readers of being considerably more accessible than is most of Chandler's work.  Instead of offering any novel historical analysis, Micklethwait and Wooldridge's principal potential contribution (albeit one they failed adequately to realize) is the normative thesis to be derived from the historical account.<br />In their introduction, Micklethwait and Wooldridge's lay out a claim that will be familiar to readers of Michael Novak's work (surprisingly, however, they seem unaware of his seminal work). Like Novak, Micklethwait and Wooldridge argue not only that the corporation is one of \\"the West's great competitive advantages,\\" but also that the number of private-sector corporations a country boasts is a relatively good guide to the degree of political freedom it provides its citizens. (xx) Unfortunately, this insight goes nowhere.<br />The normative claim is entirely plausible. The rise of modern corporations did more than just expand the economic pie. The legal system that facilitated their rise necessarily allowed individuals freedom to pursue the accumulation of wealth. Economic liberty, in turn, proved a necessary concomitant of personal liberty-the two have almost always marched hand in hand. In turn, the modern public corporation has turned out to be a powerful engine for focusing the efforts of individuals to maintain the requisite sphere of economic liberty. Those whose livelihood depends on corporate enterprise cannot be neutral about political systems. Only democratic capitalist societies permit voluntary formation of private corporations and allot them a sphere of economic liberty within which to function, which gives those who value such enterprises a powerful incentive to resist both statism and socialism. As Michael Novak has observed, private property and freedom of contract were indispensable if private business corporations were to come into existence. In turn, the corporation gave liberty economic substance over and against the state. Regrettably, after laying it out, Micklethwait and Wooldridge fail to pursue this thesis. Instead, their book lapses into a rather sterile historical description.hat the number of private-sector corporations a country boasts is a relatively good guide to the degree of political freedom it provides its citizens. (xx) Unfortunately, this insight goes nowhere.<br />The normative claim is entirely plausible. The rise of modern corporations did more than just expand the economic pie. The legal system that facilitated their rise necessarily allowed individuals freedom to pursue the accumulation of wealth. Economic liberty, in turn, proved a necessary concomitant of personal liberty-the two have almost always marched hand in hand. In turn, the modern public corporation has turned out to be a powerful engine for focusing the efforts of individuals to maintain the requisite sphere of economic liberty. Those whose livelihood depends on corporate enterprise cannot be neutral about political systems. Only democratic capitalist societies permit voluntary formation of private corporations and allot them a sphere of economic liberty within which to function, which gives those who value such enterprises a powerful incentive to resist both statism and socialism. As Michael Novak has observed, private property and freedom of contract were indispensable if private business corporations were to come into existence. In turn, the corporation gave liberty economic substance over and against the state. Regrettably, after laying it out, Micklethwait and Wooldridge fail to pursue this thesis. Instead, their book lapses into a rather sterile historical description.	2003-06-17
US	52966758	R1ECWRIL3ITFRF	0684846098	975528807	Nothing Like It in the World: The Men Who Built the Transcontinental Railroad, 1863-1869	Books	4	2	2	N	N	A marvelous tale. told well but imperfectly	Stephen Ambrose is a competent historian and author with a knack for picking great stories. In &quot;Nothing Like it in the World,&quot; he returns to the American West after many years writing about WWII. &quot;Nothing Like It&quot; picks up some 60 years after the Lewis &amp; Clark expedition of which Ambrose wrote so well in &quot;Undaunted Courage.&quot; In &quot;Nothing Like It&quot; Ambrose tells the story of the building of the Transcontinental Railroad.<br />Surely Ambrose can be forgiven the hyperbole he uses to describe that railroad. Repeatedly, he describes it as the greatest engineering project of all time (what about the Great Wall, the Pyramids, the Chunnel?). If that is an extravagent claim, however, it is not far off the mark. After all, the railroad doubtless sped the development of the American West, sopped up lots of Civil War veterans who might otherwise have gotten into serious trouble, and helped ensure that the United States would remain united east and west. Yet, in some respects, Ambrose's description of the railroad's beneficial effects is surprisingly superficial. the sale of railroad securities, for example, created the modern American capital markets, yet their role in doing so is given little, if any, attention. In addition, the railroads were the first modern public corporations but the precedent of professional management they created is ignored in favor of sensationalist reporting on the &quot;Big Four&quot; and other magnates.<br />Ambrose's incessant jingoism gets old. He disregards the extent to which British capital contributed to the railroads, for example, while emphasizing that American did it first and best. The surprisingly high number of factual errors is also annoying. The biggest boner probably is the statement on page 292 that &quot;George B. McClellan's uncoded orders were captured by the Confederates before the battle of Antietam, giving Robert E. Lee a chance to read them.&quot; Sorry, but it was the other way round.<br />Despite these flaws, however, &quot;Nothing Like It&quot; is still recommended. Ambrose writes well, the story is worth telling, and the race to the finish really does get quite exciting. The last third of the book really flies, even if the first third takes a while to get rolling. Wait for the paperback, perhaps, but do give it a go.<br />Despite these flaws, however, &quot;Nothing Like It&quot; is still recommended. Ambrose writes well, the story is worth telling, and the race to the finish really does get quite exciting. The last third of the book really flies, even if the first third takes a while to get rolling. Wait for the paperback, perhaps, but do give it a go.	2001-04-25
US	52966758	R1LY6OEZ82B59S	0195132602	851142656	The Mechanisms of Governance	Books	4	18	20	N	N	A classic of transaction cost economics	Oliver Williamson is one of the seminal figures of New Institutional Economics. &quot;The Mechanisms of Governance&quot; is the third book in which Williamson has collected his principal writings, while working them into a coherent whole. The earlier volumes, &quot;Markets and Hierarchies&quot; and &quot;The Economic Institutions of Capitalism,&quot; are justly regarded as the foundational texts of the transaction costs economics school of institutional economics. &quot;The Mechanisms of Governance&quot; seems certain to join them as essentials for any legally literate economist or economically literate lawyer.<br />Transaction cost economics focuses on institutions, in contrast to neoclassical economics' focus on individuals, providing simple models that help us understand how institutions function and how they will respond to regulation. We can analogize transaction costs to friction: they are dead weight losses that reduce efficiency. They make transactions more costly and less likely to occur. Among the most important sources of transaction costs is the limited cognitive power of human decisionmakers. Unlike the Chicago School of law and economics, which posits the traditional concept of rational choice, Williamson asserts that rationality is bounded. Put another way, he assumes that economic actors seek to maximize their expected utility, but also that the limitations of human cognition often result in decisions that fail to maximize utility. Decisionmakers inherently have limited memories, computational skills, and other mental tools, which in turn limit their ability to gather and process information. As he demonstrates, this phenomenon, known as bounded rationality, has pervasive implications for understanding how institutions work.<br />Accordingly, Williamson's approach provides an analytical framework that is useful not only to economists, but also to lawyers and policymakers. Among other subjects, Williamson tackles such subjects as vertical integration, corporate governance, and industrial organization.<br />In sum, highly recommended. If so, you might ask, of course, why did I subtract one star? Mainly because of Williamson's unfortunate writing style. Although &quot;The Mechanisms of Governance&quot; is largely free of the recreational mathematics that plagues much modern economic writing, which is useful for those of us who flunked Differential Equations, it is very jargon-intensive. Worse yet, much of the jargon is self-created. All of which makes reading Williamson an effort-intensive project. Usually the cost-benefit analysis nevertheless comes out in his favor, but sometimes one puzzles out the jargon to find a rather obvious point that could have been conveyed far more simply.corporate governance, and industrial organization.<br />In sum, highly recommended. If so, you might ask, of course, why did I subtract one star? Mainly because of Williamson's unfortunate writing style. Although &quot;The Mechanisms of Governance&quot; is largely free of the recreational mathematics that plagues much modern economic writing, which is useful for those of us who flunked Differential Equations, it is very jargon-intensive. Worse yet, much of the jargon is self-created. All of which makes reading Williamson an effort-intensive project. Usually the cost-benefit analysis nevertheless comes out in his favor, but sometimes one puzzles out the jargon to find a rather obvious point that could have been conveyed far more simply.	2001-04-25
US	52966758	R1O5TNNFJ6FZD2	0385496931	302329004	The Life of Thomas More	Books	4	6	9	N	N	A flawed but great biography of a flawed but great man	As a lawyer and Catholic convert, Thomas More is my patron saint and one of my heroes. As anyone who has read or seen &quot;A Man for All Seasons&quot; knows, More was martyred by Henry VIII for refusing to support the English Reformation. More's critics delight in the supposed irony that More was executed for his beliefs in the same way as certain Protestants were executed on More's orders when he was Chancellor of England. In the modern age, when toleration is regarded as the chief virtue, More's stance is easy to dismiss as illiberal and medieval. Yet, to his credit, Ackroyd does not fall into the modernist trap. Historical figures must be judged by reference to the standards of their day and the &quot;permanent things,&quot; but not by modern sensibilities. Ackroyd therefore presents More as a man of his times. It was a complex time amd More was a complex man.<br />I honestly wish I liked this biography better. I find Ackroyd's prose to be dense and heavy going. Especially annoying is his frequent use of quotations that he fails to render in modern English. Fifteenth century English is almost a different language than 21st century English and many of the quotations arealmost unintelligible. Granted, a scholarly work of history should not take liberties with translation. But this is a narrative history for a generalist audience, which appropriately has laxer standards.<br />Having said that, I still recommend Ackroyd's biography and am very glad I finally finished it. One comes away impressed with More's humanity, and inspired by his example. More had flaws beyond his supposed intolerance...as Ackroyd demonstrates, for example, More loved bawdy humor. Yet, when push came to shove, More demonstrated great moral courage. It is an inspiring story. I just wish it were told better.	2001-04-25
US	52966758	R29G9ZVAT9Y1Y	0812508440	276745598	The White Rose: A Novel of the Black Company (Chronicles of The Black Company)	Books	5	19	20	N	N	A fabulous end to a fantastic trilogy	The White Rose is the third volume in the opening trilogy of the &quot;Black Company&quot; saga. Buy this book right now. But then click on Cook's name and buy the first two volumes of the series as well: Black Company and Shadows Linger.<br />The Black Company is one of the great creations of modern fantasy. In a genre in which most stories are starkly black and white--really pure good guys and really bad villans--the Black Company (contra its name) lives in gray. Indeed, Cook puts the following words in the mouth of Croaker (the principal viewpoint character and narrator in the early volumes): &quot;I do not believe in evil . . . . I believe in our side and theirs, with the good and evil decided after the fact, by those who survive. Among men you seldom find the good with one standard and the shadow with another.&quot; Me too.<br />In early novels of the series, the Black Company was toughest, nastiest, scariest outfit around. &quot;Yea, though I walk through the Valley of the Shadow of Death, I shall fear no evil--for I am the baddest SOB in the valley!&quot; could have been the Black Company motto. In the White Rose, their numbers have shrunk and the warriors are starting to show their age. They survive now by guile, rather than brute strength.<br />In the White Rose, the Company also must grapple with its code of ethics, which previously was focused almost wholly inward. Honor vis-a-vis the outside world consisted of keeping one's contracts. Otherwise, honor was focused on one's relationships within the Company. But now the Company has decided that honoring its contract with Lady is not worth its collective soul. Almost against its will, the Company now finds itself serving the greater good.<br />Many reviewers of White Rose and other Black Company novels have commented on the sparse nature of Cook's prose. In fairness, the White Rose is even sparser than most of the other novels in the series. We have almost no sense of Toadkiller Dog's appearance, motivation, attitudes, or aptitudes. Yet, in a curious way, I think of this as one of the strengths of Cook's writing. Reading Cook's novels is sort of like listening to an old-fashioned radio serial. You have to use your imagination to fill in the gaps. I suspect that my mental picture of Toadkiller Dog is a lot scarier than anything Cook would put down in print. I like that sort of novel, but your mileage may vary.attitudes, or aptitudes. Yet, in a curious way, I think of this as one of the strengths of Cook's writing. Reading Cook's novels is sort of like listening to an old-fashioned radio serial. You have to use your imagination to fill in the gaps. I suspect that my mental picture of Toadkiller Dog is a lot scarier than anything Cook would put down in print. I like that sort of novel, but your mileage may vary.	2001-04-04
US	52966758	R3T17I7HZJ17EG	0691005443	262572146	Economics and the Law	Books	4	16	16	N	N	Useful introduction to an important field	What is law &amp; economics? It is the school of jurisprudence in which the tools of microeconomic analysis are used to study law. Those of us who practice economic analysis have a deceptively simple task. We translate some legal doctrine into economic terms. We then apply a few basic principles -- cost-benefit analysis, collective action theory, decision-making under uncertainty, risk aversion, and the like -- to the problem. Finally, we translate the result back into legal terms.<br />Law &amp; economics unquestionably is the most successful form of intellectual arbitrage in the history of jurisprudence. Why? Traditional forms of legal scholarship were mostly backward looking. One reasoned from old precedents to decide a present case, seemingly without much concern (at least explicitly) for the effect today's decision would have a future behavior. Yet, law is necessarily forward looking. To be sure, a major function of our legal system is to resolve present disputes, but law's main job is to regulate future behavior. The law &amp; economics movement succeeded because it recognized that judges cannot administer justice solely retrospectively. They must also consider what rules their decisions will create to guide the behavior of other actors in the future. Even more important, however, law &amp; economics gives judges systematic mechanisms for predicting how rules will affect behavior.<br />Mercuro and Medema's text offers a comprehensive overview of law &amp; economics. Unlike many texts, it is not limited to the Chicago School (as exemplified by such stalwarts as Manne, Easterbrook, and Posner). They also describe the New Haven school (classically exemplified by Calabresi), the public choice theory of Arrow, Buchanan, and others, as well as both the traditional and new institutional economics. By reminding us that law &amp; economics is not a homogeneous field, and providing a fair commentary on each of the major traditions within the larger discipline, they offer an excellent introduction to this important area of jurisprudence.<br />One nice touch, which makes the text useful for a wide audience, is that it does not assume familiarity with either economics or law. The introduction offers a brief historical overview of basic jurisprudence, as well as an appendix explaining basic economic principles. Consequently, the book will serve well the interests both of lawyers who need to brush up on economics and economists interested in law.<br />Criticisms that led me to subtract one star: There is little in the way of critical evaluative judgment. Indeed, Mercuro and Medema disavow any effort at criticism. As a result, the reader is left to his own devices. Second, I am not persuaded by Mercuro and Medema's decision to include a rather lengthy chapter on critical legal studies. Criticism of law &amp; economics has been a major project of CLS scholars, but CLS scholarship has had no influence of any significance on any of the dominant strains of law &amp; economics thinking. In this case, moreover, the failure to exercise critical evaluative judgment means that the generalist reader may have difficulty assessing the (bogus) claims made by CLS. In general, while maintaining facial neutrality on their own part, Mercuro and Medema give far more attention to CLS and Marxist critiques of law &amp; economics than they do to conservative critiques thereof or to law &amp; economics criticisms of CLS.r an excellent introduction to this important area of jurisprudence.<br />One nice touch, which makes the text useful for a wide audience, is that it does not assume familiarity with either economics or law. The introduction offers a brief historical overview of basic jurisprudence, as well as an appendix explaining basic economic principles. Consequently, the book will serve well the interests both of lawyers who need to brush up on economics and economists interested in law.<br />Criticisms that led me to subtract one star: There is little in the way of critical evaluative judgment. Indeed, Mercuro and Medema disavow any effort at criticism. As a result, the reader is left to his own devices. Second, I am not persuaded by Mercuro and Medema's decision to include a rather lengthy chapter on critical legal studies. Criticism of law &amp; economics has been a major project of CLS scholars, but CLS scholarship has had no influence of any significance on any of the dominant strains of law &amp; economics thinking. In this case, moreover, the failure to exercise critical evaluative judgment means that the generalist reader may have difficulty assessing the (bogus) claims made by CLS. In general, while maintaining facial neutrality on their own part, Mercuro and Medema give far more attention to CLS and Marxist critiques of law &amp; economics than they do to conservative critiques thereof or to law &amp; economics criticisms of CLS.	2001-04-04
US	52966758	R1FDFEVTJH72G6	039914563X	225323965	The Bear and the Dragon	Books	2	6	7	N	N	Call me a disappointed -- nay, shocked -- fan	Because this is going to be a very negative review, I should perhaps establish my bona fides at the outset. I am a long-time Tom Clancy fan who has bought every one of his main books in hard cover going back to RED OCTOBER. I also have no patience for political correctness. Yet, after finishing Bear and Dragon -- a task I had put off for over a year after buying the book -- I must join the apparently lengthy list of former fans who were turned off by this book. Here's why:<br />1. Bloat: Clancy's editors must be terrified of his gun collection. This book sprawls across 1028 pages to tell a story that could be summarized in a couple of sentences. Repetition abounds--the claim that Mao was a pedophile is repeated at least half-a-dozen times.<br />2. The embarassing sex scenes. Before his divorce, Clancy used to pride himself on the absence of sex from his books. In interviews, he laid great stress on his Catholicism and always claimed the moral highground. He still claims that highground, with snide comments on the sexual pecadillos of Bill Clinton and Mao. Yet, he gives us several turgid sex scenes with such sparkling prose as the phrase &quot;japanese sausage,&quot; which he uses to describe a male character's genitalia. A very high yuck factor.<br />3. The lack of realism. Of course, the US and its unlikely ally prevail. And without a scratch. And, of course, our technology works like magic. Yet, we now know from BDA from Kosovo and Iraq, that the fancy technology does not work as well as Clancy claims. And does he really expect to us to believe that China would invade Russia to get a gold mine? Or that a Vatican nuncio would conduct an Operation Rescue-like raid on an abortion clinic? Or that a covert operation would arrive at a nuclear missle site just in time to watch a missle launch (although I admit it will make a good visual in the movie)? And the list goes on. I'm perfectly willing to suspend disbelief for the sake of a good story, but this is beyond the pale.<br />4. The rampant racism. Even with my limited sensitity to political correctness, I was bothered by the incessant use of racist and sexist language.<br />In sum, yuck.e.<br />4. The rampant racism. Even with my limited sensitity to political correctness, I was bothered by the incessant use of racist and sexist language.<br />In sum, yuck.	2001-03-12
US	52966758	R2SZDT8XU7WE4S	0345405633	95741719	Breakthroughs (The Great War, Book 3)	Books	4	2	4	N	N	Foreshadows the war to come...	Although Harry Turtledove is probably best known for his World War series, the Civil War series that began with HOW FEW REMAIN is doubtless his greatest work. The back-story for this series is a plausible world in which Lee's plans for the 1862 invasion of Pennsylvania did not fall into Union hands. After battles at New Cumberland and Camp Hill in which Lee crushed the Army of the Potomac, leaving Washington cut off, England and France intervene--forcing the North to sue for peace. In HOW FEW REMAIN, the story picked up in 1881 when the North declared war on the Confederacy following the latter's purchase of Chihuahua and Sonora from the Empire of Mexico. Following another British and French intervention, the Confederacy was again victorious. The Union is left embittered and hungry for revenge. At the end of HOW FEW REMAIN, Turtledove foreshadowed the four volume GREAT WAR with clear hints of an emerging alliance between the Union and Imperial Germany. In AMERICAN FRONT, the story picked up in 1914. World War I has broken out in Europe. The Union and Imperial Germany are staunch allies, while the Confederacy remains allied with England and France. In short order, the Union and the Confederacy plunge into a war paralleling that in Europe. The war doesn't make a lot of sense. In World War I, all of the European players had clear war aims. The war turned out to be a tragic folly, but they all knew why they went to war. In contrast, it's not clear why the Union and Confederacy are fighting (old animosities?) or what their respective war aims are. Does the USA believe it can conquer and reabsorb the Confederacy? Perhaps this is Turtledove's point - the utter folly of war. If so, his story powerfully illustrates the utility of George Washington's advice that the US steer clear of &quot;entangling alliances&quot; with European powers. As was made even more clear in volume 2, WALK IN HELL, privation and radical social change are the war's only sure outcome.<br />Volume 3, BREAKTHROUGHS, brings the story forward into 1917. As usual with Turtledove, there are a lot of sub-plots to keep track of - at least a dozen! Crib notes are almost a necessity. Yet, some plot lines that in prior novels seemed needlessly duplicative now begin to show clear distinctions. Consider the McGregor and Galtier sub-plots. Both are based around oppressed Canadian families living in territories occupied by US forces. The McGregors are resistance fighters, while the Galtiers fell (more or less by accident) into being collaborationists. I still think Turtledove, however, would have done better to combine these separate plot lines into a single one, in which the conflict could have been established within a single family, heightening the tension.<br />Without revealing too many spoilers, I want to note that a couple of predictions made by this reviewer's comments on prior volumes have come true. First, Turtledove still cannot write sex scenes but persists in foisting a couple on us per novel. The cuckoldry of one of the viewpoint characters is certainly the sort of thing that happens in wartime, but Turtledove's turgid purple prose is still off-putting. Second, as I predicted, Jake Featherston has clearly emerged as a proto-Hitler. So now for my next predictions: The final volume will develop themes of economic privation and social breakdown (think Weimar Germany). A major theme will be Featherston's rise to power as a racist demagogic leader planning a pogrom against blacks. And we'll be buying yet another tetralogy-this time dealing with WWII.<br />The next tetralogy likely will end in southern defeat, although maybe not reunification. In creating the GREAT WAR world, Turtledove thus far has stuck pretty close to the plot line of the Franco-German wars, with the Union playing France's role and the Confederacy that of Germany. In HOW FEW REMAIN, the Confederacy won a short war pretty easily, just as the Kaiser on the Franco-Prussian war. In the GREAT WAR, the south will lose a bloody war, just as the German Empire lost WWI. If Turtledove sticks to form, the south will lose the next war too.<br />Anyway, this is alternative history at its finest. Turtledove is not the greatest stylist in fantasy, and spreads himself too thin across too many books for real quality, but he is a consistently imaginative and capable storyteller. He has the guts to kill off major viewpoint characters, which few other series authors do. One becomes invested in the story and eager to find out how it comes out. Recommended, although U subtract one star for the awful sex scenes.south will lose a bloody war, just as the German Empire lost WWI. If Turtledove sticks to form, the south will lose the next war too.<br />Anyway, this is alternative history at its finest. Turtledove is not the greatest stylist in fantasy, and spreads himself too thin across too many books for real quality, but he is a consistently imaginative and capable storyteller. He has the guts to kill off major viewpoint characters, which few other series authors do. One becomes invested in the story and eager to find out how it comes out. Recommended, although U subtract one star for the awful sex scenes.	2001-03-12
US	52966758	R2SCUFWQY2ZWLH	0877934118	362111718	The Imitation of Christ: A Timeless Classic for Contemporary Readers	Books	5	32	36	N	N	Of great historical import, yet strangely timely	Thomas a Kempis was medival monk and priest (1380-1471) who served as chronicler of the monastery at Mt. St. Agnes. During his long life of scholarship, he wrote several biographies of church fathers and a number of devotional works. The &quot;Imitation of Christ&quot; remains his most famous work and the one that has best stood the test of time. Indeed, one of the wonderful things about this work is that it reminds us that the life of the mind is not a creature of the Enlightenment. Even during the so-called Dark Ages there were brilliant scholars with a wide knowledge of both scripture and philosophy. Reflecting its vibrant insight into the human condition, the &quot;Imitation of Christ&quot; remains influential on both sides of the Reformation divide. It reportedly was, for example, one of John Wesley's favorite devotionals.<br />The &quot;Imitation of Christ&quot; is divided into 4 books, each undertaking a basic theme for development. They are, respectively, the Spiritual Life, the Inner Life, Inward Consolation, and the Blessed Sacrament (i.e., the Eucharist). In turn, each book is sub-divided into numerous chapters, each a page or two long. All of which makes the &quot;Imitation of Christ&quot; a useful book for daily devotionals. One can skip around freely within the book, dipping in as the mood strikes. Yet, I think one is well-served by reading it through at least once. Only then does one see Thomas' thought in its fully-developed form	2001-03-10
US	52966758	R1P7TZXRIUIA15	1557868662	970790948	Watching the Watchers: Corporate Goverance for the 21st Century	Books	1	3	10	N	N	A dissenting vote	In &quot;Watching the Watchers,&quot; Monks and Minow update - some might say recycle - the arguments advanced in their earlier book &quot;Power and Accountability.&quot; As with that earlier book, &quot;Watching the Watchers&quot; makes a case for increased shareholder activism, especially by institutional investors. Unfortunately, the root claim - that shareholder activism is a good thing - is both positively and normatively flawed. There is some anecdotal evidence that institutions are becoming more active, using the proxy system to defend their interests and influencing policy through negotiations with management. Yet, there is little concrete evidence that shareholder activism matters. Even the most active institutions devote little effort to monitoring management. They rarely conduct proxy solicitations or put forward shareholder proposals. They do not to try to elect representatives to boards of directors.<br />U.S. public corporations are characterized by a separation of ownership and control: the firm's nominal owners, the shareholders, exercise virtually no control over either day to day operations or long-term policy. Instead, control is vested in the hands of professional managers, who typically own only a small portion of the firm's shares. This separation has costs, the most significant of which are referred to as agency costs, incurred to prevent shirking by managers. The agency cost model forces one to confront the question: who will monitor the monitors? In any team organization, one must have some ultimate monitor who has sufficient incentives to ensure firm productivity without himself having to be monitored. Institutional investors, in Monks' theory, function as such ultimate monitors. Because they own large blocks, and have an incentive to develop specialized expertise in making and monitoring investments, they could hold management accountable for actions that do not promote shareholder welfare, which should lead to a reduction in agency costs.<br />The benefits of institutional control, however, may come at too high a cost. There is good evidence that bank control of the securities markets has harmed that Japanese and German economies by impeding the development of new businesses. More importantly, there is a risk that institutional investors will abuse their control by self-dealing and other forms of over-reaching. If management becomes more beholden to the interests of large shareholders, it may become less concerned with the welfare of smaller investors. The U.S. experience with social investing by public pension funds, moreover, suggests that politicization of stockownership will be an economic drag. In general, the greater the extent to which a public pension fund is subject to direct political control, the worse its investment returns.<br />In my view, moreover, the separation of ownership and control is a highly efficient solution to the decisionmaking problems faced by large corporations. Separating ownership and control by vesting decisionmaking authority in a centralized entity distinct from the shareholders is what makes the large public corporation feasible. To be sure, this separation results in the agency cost problem described above. A narrow focus on agency costs, however, easily can distort one's understanding. Corporate managers operate within a pervasive web of accountability mechanisms that substitute for monitoring by residual claimants. Agency costs, in any event, are the inevitable consequence of vesting discretion in someone other than the residual claimant. We could substantially reduce, if not eliminate, agency costs by eliminating discretion; that we do not do so suggests that discretion has substantial virtues.<br />The root economic argument against shareholder activism thus becomes apparent. Large-scale institutional involvement in corporate decisionmaking seems likely to disrupt the very mechanism that makes the modern public corporation practicable; namely, the centralization of essentially nonreviewable decisionmaking authority in the board of directors. Given the significant virtues of discretion, one ought not lightly interfere with management or the board's decisionmaking authority in the name of accountability. Preservation of managerial discretion should always be the null hypothesis. The separation of ownership and control mandated by U.S. corporate law has precisely that effect. Monks and Minow make their living promoting institutional investor activism that undercuts the null hypothesis. But it is still bad public policy.ion of essentially nonreviewable decisionmaking authority in the board of directors. Given the significant virtues of discretion, one ought not lightly interfere with management or the board's decisionmaking authority in the name of accountability. Preservation of managerial discretion should always be the null hypothesis. The separation of ownership and control mandated by U.S. corporate law has precisely that effect. Monks and Minow make their living promoting institutional investor activism that undercuts the null hypothesis. But it is still bad public policy.	2001-02-20
US	52966758	R276PGNO57IWCK	0226111016	448119001	The Firm, the Market, and the Law	Books	5	68	71	N	N	Classic works collected, and explained	Ronald Coase is a Nobel Prize-winning economist, whose work is probably cited more often by lawyers than by economists. &quot;The Firm, The Market, and the Law&quot; is principally a collection of his seminal scholarship, although it does contain some useful new material. The opening chapter is new and shows how a consistent theory of firms and markets, as well as a unique conception of economics and economically-oriented scholarship, runs through Coase's work from the 1930s to the late 1980s (when the book was published).<br />Coase is best known for two seminal articles. The earlier article &quot;The Theory of the Firm&quot; is the seminal work on the so-called nexus of contracts theory of the firm, as well as an early source for the transaction cost branch of the New Institutional Economics. The nexus of contracts model treats the firm not as an entity, but as an aggregate of various inputs acting together to produce goods or services. Employees provide labor. Creditors provide debt capital. Shareholders initially provide equity capital and subsequently bear the risk of losses and monitor the performance of management. Management monitors the performance of employees and coordinates the activities of all the firm's inputs. The firm is simply a legal fiction representing the complex set of contractual relationships between these inputs. Besides emphasizing the importance of examining the various contracts making up the firm, however, Coase's fundamental insight was that the contractual nature of the firm does not preclude an element of command and control absent from market transactions. If a corporate employee moves from department Y to department X he does so not because of change in relative prices, but because he is ordered to do so. In other words, markets allocate resources via the price mechanism but firms allocate resources via authoritative direction. The set of contracts making up the firm consists in very large measure of implicit agreements, which by definition are both incomplete and unenforceable. Under conditions of uncertainty and complexity, the firm's many constituencies cannot execute a complete contract, so that many decisions must be left for later contractual rewrites imposed by fiat. It is precisely the unenforceability of implicit corporate contracts that makes it possible for the central decisionmaker to rewrite them more-or-less freely. The parties to the corporate contract presumably accept this consequence of relying on implicit contracts because the resulting reduction in transaction costs benefits them all.<br />Even better known, and even more central to transaction cost economics, however, is Coase's later article &quot;The Problem of Social Cost,&quot; which also is reprinted in full here. In that article, Coase laid a critical foundation of modern law and economics - the so-called Coase theorem. The Coase theorem has been formulated in various ways, but one useful statement might be that: &quot;When the parties can bargain successfully, the initial allocation of legal rights does not matter.&quot; Suppose a steam locomotive drives by a field of wheat. Sparks from the engine set crops on fire. Should the railroad company be liable? In a world of zero transaction costs, the initial assignment of rights is irrelevant. If the legal rule we choose is inefficient, the parties can bargain around it. Put another way, according to the Coase theorem, rights will be acquired by those who value them most highly, which creates an incentive to discover and implement transaction cost minimizing governance forms.<br />The Coase theorem has been widely criticized. The second major set of new material in this book is a chapter entitled &quot;Notes on the Problem of Social Cost,&quot; in which Coase answers the more serious criticisms. That essay provides a useful intellectual history of the Coase theorem, as well as a trenchant defense of its main claims. One of the less-well informed criticisms of Coase is that he assumes transaction costs are zero. He does not, as this new essay makes clear. Indeed, as Coase points out, the interesting cases are those in which transactions costs are non-zero. In a world of positive transaction costs, however, the parties may not be able to bargain. This is likely to be true in our example. The railroad travels past the property of many landowners, who put their property to differing uses and put differing values on those uses. Negotiating an optimal solution will all of those owners would be, at best, time consuming and onerous. Hence, the allocation of legal rights becomes quite important.hat he assumes transaction costs are zero. He does not, as this new essay makes clear. Indeed, as Coase points out, the interesting cases are those in which transactions costs are non-zero. In a world of positive transaction costs, however, the parties may not be able to bargain. This is likely to be true in our example. The railroad travels past the property of many landowners, who put their property to differing uses and put differing values on those uses. Negotiating an optimal solution will all of those owners would be, at best, time consuming and onerous. Hence, the allocation of legal rights becomes quite important.	2001-02-20
US	52966758	R2OOMUDP5Y67N3	0738201332	738077170	The Emperor's Nightingale: Restoring The Integrity Of The Corporation In The Age Of Shareholder Activism	Books	1	4	10	N	N	A dissenting vote	As with Robert Monk's other books, &quot;The Emperor's Nightingale&quot; tries to make the case for increased shareholder activism, especially by institutional investors. In his earlier works, Monks typically linked shareholder activism to corporate profitability. His earlier works, however, also touched on a broader social agenda. In &quot;The Emperor's Nightingale,&quot; that broader social agenda takes center stage. It is a distinctly left-liberal agenda: corporate law compliance, corporate self-flagellation through mandatory disclosure of allegedly improper conduct, environmental protection, workers' rights, etc.<br />The trouble is that the root claim - that shareholder activism is a good thing - is both positively and normatively flawed. There is some anecdotal evidence that institutions are becoming more active, using the proxy system to defend their interests and influencing policy through negotiations with management. Yet, there is little concrete evidence that shareholder activism matters. Even the most active institutions devote little effort to monitoring management. They rarely conduct proxy solicitations or put forward shareholder proposals. They do not to try to elect representatives to boards of directors.<br />U.S. public corporations are characterized by a separation of ownership and control: the firm's nominal owners, the shareholders, exercise virtually no control over either day to day operations or long-term policy. Instead, control is vested in the hands of professional managers, who typically own only a small portion of the firm's shares. This separation has costs, the most significant of which are referred to as agency costs, incurred to prevent shirking by managers. The agency cost model forces one to confront the question: who will monitor the monitors? In any team organization, one must have some ultimate monitor who has sufficient incentives to ensure firm productivity without himself having to be monitored. Institutional investors, in Monks' theory, function as such ultimate monitors. Because they own large blocks, and have an incentive to develop specialized expertise in making and monitoring investments, they could hold management accountable for actions that do not promote shareholder welfare, which should lead to a reduction in agency costs.<br />The benefits of institutional control, however, may come at too high a cost. There is good evidence that bank control of the securities markets has harmed that Japanese and German economies by impeding the development of new businesses. More importantly, there is a risk that institutional investors will abuse their control by self-dealing and other forms of over-reaching. If management becomes more beholden to the interests of large shareholders, it may become less concerned with the welfare of smaller investors. The U.S. experience with social investing by public pension funds, moreover, suggests that politicization of stockownership will be an economic drag. In general, the greater the extent to which a public pension fund is subject to direct political control, the worse its investment returns.<br />In my view, moreover, the separation of ownership and control is a highly efficient solution to the decisionmaking problems faced by large corporations. Separating ownership and control by vesting decisionmaking authority in a centralized entity distinct from the shareholders is what makes the large public corporation feasible. To be sure, this separation results in the agency cost problem described above. A narrow focus on agency costs, however, easily can distort one's understanding. Corporate managers operate within a pervasive web of accountability mechanisms that substitute for monitoring by residual claimants. Agency costs, in any event, are the inevitable consequence of vesting discretion in someone other than the residual claimant. We could substantially reduce, if not eliminate, agency costs by eliminating discretion; that we do not do so suggests that discretion has substantial virtues.<br />The root economic argument against shareholder activism thus becomes apparent. Large-scale institutional involvement in corporate decisionmaking seems likely to disrupt the very mechanism that makes the modern public corporation practicable; namely, the centralization of essentially nonreviewable decisionmaking authority in the board of directors. Given the significant virtues of discretion, one ought not lightly interfere with management or the board's decisionmaking authority in the name of accountability. Preservation of managerial discretion should always be the null hypothesis. The separation of ownership and control mandated by U.S. corporate law has precisely that effect.sts that discretion has substantial virtues.<br />The root economic argument against shareholder activism thus becomes apparent. Large-scale institutional involvement in corporate decisionmaking seems likely to disrupt the very mechanism that makes the modern public corporation practicable; namely, the centralization of essentially nonreviewable decisionmaking authority in the board of directors. Given the significant virtues of discretion, one ought not lightly interfere with management or the board's decisionmaking authority in the name of accountability. Preservation of managerial discretion should always be the null hypothesis. The separation of ownership and control mandated by U.S. corporate law has precisely that effect.	2001-02-20
US	52966758	R10IEO88QNEFBC	0803945329	528100143	Employee Involvement: Methods for Improving Performance and Work Attitudes	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Valuable review of the literature	Participatory management is a system of industrial relations purporting to involve employees in workplace decisionmaking. In its various guises,  such as quality circles, self-directed work teams, and the like, participatory management has been adopted by thousands of U.S. corporations. It is widely endorsed by business leaders, academics, politicians, and even some union leaders.  Yet despite a mountain of book and articles on the topic, participatory management also remains poorly understood.<br />The literature remains disappointingly vague when it comes to explaining how and why employee involvement has beneficial results.  At the risk of being flippant, one can summarize much of the literature as follows: Participating employees are happy employees and happy employees are productive employees. Ergo, participating employees are productive employees. Unfortunately for the conventionally wise, the evidence simply does not support this claim. To be sure, there is some evidence that participatory management has positive productivity effects. But the evidence is highly tenuous and far from conclusive. Lots of interesting questions are still unanswered by any study, let alone a methodologically sound one.  As to those questions that have been addressed, studies differ radically in their specification and measurement of dependent and independent variables.  Methodologies differ widely ranging from collections of anecdotes that scarcely rise above the level of testimonial to rigorous econometric studies. Even as to methodologically rigorous studies, there is good reason to doubt the quality of the data sets. Failures tend to be under-reported.  Hidden costs are ignored.  Many data sets are inherently subject to a selection bias to the extent that they focus on firms that have adopted participatory management. Such firms are a self-selected group, whose predispositions may affect the success of participatory management.<br />John Cotton's &quot;Employee Involvement&quot; is a comprehensive review of the literature that is fair, intellectually rigorous and honest. Cotton summarizes the empirical work through the mid-1990s as reaching conclusions that are all over the map, ranging from finding no benefit to inconclusive results to finding substantial gains. Usefully, while he provides an overview of the entire field, Cotton focuses his analysis by dividing the universe of employee involvement programs into 7 distinct forms. Each form is described, both generically and with an illustrative anecdotal example, which is followed by a careful summary of the empirical literature. In the last chapter, Cotton draws some appropriately cautious conclusions. One conclusion that I think is indisputable is the importance of firm culture. Employee involvement programs vary a lot, and a key determinant of their success is the culture of the firm. Neither firms nor workers are homogeneous and programs that work well for one will flop at another. Because managers often approach employee involvement programs the way teenagers approach the latest fad, Cotton's analysis provides a useful cautionary tale.is a comprehensive review of the literature that is fair, intellectually rigorous and honest. Cotton summarizes the empirical work through the mid-1990s as reaching conclusions that are all over the map, ranging from finding no benefit to inconclusive results to finding substantial gains. Usefully, while he provides an overview of the entire field, Cotton focuses his analysis by dividing the universe of employee involvement programs into 7 distinct forms. Each form is described, both generically and with an illustrative anecdotal example, which is followed by a careful summary of the empirical literature. In the last chapter, Cotton draws some appropriately cautious conclusions. One conclusion that I think is indisputable is the importance of firm culture. Employee involvement programs vary a lot, and a key determinant of their success is the culture of the firm. Neither firms nor workers are homogeneous and programs that work well for one will flop at another. Because managers often approach employee involvement programs the way teenagers approach the latest fad, Cotton's analysis provides a useful cautionary tale.	2001-02-20
US	52966758	RZYS57VB1NSPL	0674002954	545815285	A Theory of the Firm: Governance, Residual Claims, and Organizational Forms	Books	4	23	26	N	N	The seminal works of agency cost economics collected	Michael Jensen is one of the founders of the agency cost economics branch of the New Institutional Economics. &quot;A Theory of the Firm&quot; collects eight articles by Jensen and various co-authors that, collectively, represent the seminal body of work in this field. (I wonder how his various co-authors felt about being left of the spine of this book?) While his contributions to agency cost theory are the work for which he is best known, Jensen also figures prominently in the intellectual history of the nexus of contracts theory of the firm, as several of the articles collected here demonstrate.<br />U.S. public corporations are characterized by a separation of ownership and control: the firm's nominal owners, the shareholders, exercise virtually no control over either day to day operations or long-term policy. Instead, control is vested in the hands of professional managers, who typically own only a small portion of the firm's shares. The separation of ownership and control characteristic of U.S. corporations has costs: &quot;The separation of ownership from control produces a condition where the interests of owner and of ultimate manager may, and often do, diverge . . . .&quot; (Berle and Means, 1932). Modern scholars refer to the consequences of these divergences as agency costs, following Jensen and Meckling (1976), which are conventionally defined as the sum of the monitoring and bonding costs, plus any residual loss, incurred to prevent shirking by agents. In turn, shirking is conventionally defined to include as any action by a member of a production team that diverges from the interests of the team as a whole. As such, shirking includes not only culpable cheating, but also negligence, oversight, incapacity, and even honest mistakes. In other words, shirking is simply the inevitable consequence of bounded rationality and opportunism within agency relationships. The classic Jensen &amp; Meckling article is reprinted herein.<br />Although agency cost theory undeniably is critical to understanding the modern corporate form, too many agency cost theorists have narrowly focused on agency costs to the exclusion of other institutional considerations, which easily can distort one's understanding. Corporate managers operate within a pervasive web of accountability mechanisms that substitute for monitoring by residual claimants. Important constraints are provided by a variety of market forces. The capital and product markets, the internal and external employment markets, and the market for corporate control all constrain shirking by firm agents. In addition, the legal system evolved various adaptive responses to the ineffectiveness of shareholder monitoring, establishing alternative accountability structures to punish and deter wrongdoing by firm agents, such as the board of directors. An even more important consideration, however, is that agency costs are the inevitable consequence of vesting discretion in someone other than the residual claimant. We could substantially reduce, if not eliminate, agency costs by eliminating discretion; that we do not do so suggests that discretion has substantial virtues. A complete theory of the firm thus requires one to balance the virtues of discretion against the need to require that discretion be used responsibly. Neither discretion nor accountability can be ignored, because both promote values essential to the survival of business organizations. Unfortunately, they are ultimately antithetical: one cannot have more of one without also having less of the other - the power to hold to account is the power to decide. Managers cannot be made more accountable without undermining their discretionary authority. Establishing the proper mix of discretion and accountability thus emerges as the central corporate governance question.<br />Jensen recognizes this tension in several of the articles collected here, which in general are less lex-centric than those of many of his intellectual progeny. In other words, Jensen is less likely to believe that regulation is an appropriate solution to a given problem. Instead, his work focuses on market solutions to agency cost problems. The articles on takeovers and leveraged buyouts are good examples.<br />Given the many virtues of Jensen's work, why have I subtracted one star? Mostly because there is nothing new here. To be sure, it is useful to have all Jensen's major agency cost articles collected in a convenient forum. And this text can remind a new generation of scholars of Jensen's early work. Yet, newcomers and generalists may find the text heavy going in places, while us old-timers have already read all of these articles in their original publications.er words, Jensen is less likely to believe that regulation is an appropriate solution to a given problem. Instead, his work focuses on market solutions to agency cost problems. The articles on takeovers and leveraged buyouts are good examples.<br />Given the many virtues of Jensen's work, why have I subtracted one star? Mostly because there is nothing new here. To be sure, it is useful to have all Jensen's major agency cost articles collected in a convenient forum. And this text can remind a new generation of scholars of Jensen's early work. Yet, newcomers and generalists may find the text heavy going in places, while us old-timers have already read all of these articles in their original publications.	2001-02-20
US	52966758	R3NQ69LS2COIO6	0887305342	312429392	Power and Accountability	Books	2	7	14	N	N	Less controversial than it deserves to be	&quot;Power &amp; Accountability&quot; contends that institutional investors are changing U.S. corporate governance for the better, and that the law should encourage those changes. In my view, the thesis is both positively and normatively flawed.<br />The empirical evidence on institutional investor activism is mixed, at best. There is some anecdotal evidence that institutions are becoming more active, using the proxy system to defend their interests. Less visibly, institutions supposedly influence business policy and board composition through negotiations with management. Yet, there is little concrete evidence that shareholder activism matters. Even the most active institutions spend trifling amounts on corporate governance. Institutions devote little effort to monitoring management. They rarely conduct proxy solicitations or put forward shareholder proposals. They do not to try to elect representatives to boards of directors.<br />Even if institutional investor activism matters, it is not clear that it should be encouraged. U.S. public corporations are characterized by a separation of ownership and control: the firm's nominal owners, the shareholders, exercise virtually no control over either day to day operations or long-term policy. Instead, control is vested in the hands of professional managers, who typically own only a small portion of the firm's shares. This separation is carved into stone by U.S. corporate law-under all corporation statutes, the key players in the formal decision making structure are the members of the board of directors.  The separation of ownership and control has costs, the most significant of which are referred to as agency costs, incurred to prevent shirking by managers. The agency cost model forces one to confront the question: who will monitor the monitors? In any team organization, one must have some ultimate monitor who has sufficient incentives to ensure firm productivity without himself having to be monitored. Otherwise, one ends up with a never ending series of monitors monitoring lower level monitors. Institutional investors, at least potentially, may behave quite differently than dispersed individual investors. Because they own large blocks, and have an incentive to develop specialized expertise in making and monitoring investments, they could play a far more active role in corporate governance than dispersed shareholders. Institutional investors holding large blocks have more power to hold management accountable for actions that do not promote shareholder welfare. Their greater access to firm information, coupled with their concentrated voting power, will enable them to more actively monitor the firm's performance and to make changes in the board's composition when performance lagged. As a result, concentrated ownership in the hands of institutional investors might lead to a reduction in agency costs.<br />The benefits of institutional control, however, may come at too high a cost. There is good evidence that bank control of the securities markets has harmed that Japanese and German economies by impeding the development of new businesses. More importantly, there is a risk that institutional investors will abuse their control by self-dealing and other forms of over-reaching. If management becomes more beholden to the interests of large shareholders, it may become less concerned with the welfare of smaller investors. The U.S. experience with social investing by public pension funds, moreover, suggests that politicization of stockownership will be an economic drag. In general, the greater the extent to which a public pension fund is subject to direct political control, the worse its investment returns.<br />In my view, moreover, the separation of ownership and control is a highly efficient solution to the decisionmaking problems faced by large corporations. Separating ownership and control by vesting decisionmaking authority in a centralized entity distinct from the shareholders is what makes the large public corporation feasible. To be sure, this separation results in the agency cost problem described above. A narrow focus on agency costs, however, easily can distort one's understanding. Corporate managers operate within a pervasive web of accountability mechanisms that substitute for monitoring by residual claimants. Important constraints are provided by a variety of market forces. The capital and product markets, the internal and external employment markets, and the market for corporate control all constrain shirking by firm agents. In addition, the legal system evolved various adaptive responses to the ineffectiveness of shareholder monitoring, establishing alternative accountability structures to punish and deter wrongdoing by firm agents, such as the board of directors.<br />An even more important consideration, however, is that agency costs are the inevitable consequence of vesting discretion in someone other than the residual claimant. We could substantially reduce, if not eliminate, agency costs by eliminating discretion; that we do not do so suggests that discretion has substantial virtues. A complete theory of the firm thus requires one to balance the virtues of discretion against the need to require that discretion be used responsibly. Neither discretion nor accountability can be ignored, because both promote values essential to the survival of business organizations. Unfortunately, they are ultimately antithetical: one cannot have more of one without also having less of the other. The power to hold to account is ultimately the power to decide. Managers cannot be made more accountable without undermining their discretionary authority.<br />The root economic argument against shareholder activism thus becomes apparent. Large-scale institutional involvement in corporate decisionmaking seems likely to disrupt the very mechanism that makes the modern public corporation practicable; namely, the centralization of essentially nonreviewable decisionmaking authority in the board of directors. Given the significant virtues of discretion, one ought not lightly interfere with management or the board's decisionmaking authority in the name of accountability. Preservation of managerial discretion should always be the null hypothesis. The separation of ownership and control mandated by U.S. corporate law has precisely that effect.kes the large public corporation feasible. To be sure, this separation results in the agency cost problem described above. A narrow focus on agency costs, however, easily can distort one's understanding. Corporate managers operate within a pervasive web of accountability mechanisms that substitute for monitoring by residual claimants. Important constraints are provided by a variety of market forces. The capital and product markets, the internal and external employment markets, and the market for corporate control all constrain shirking by firm agents. In addition, the legal system evolved various adaptive responses to the ineffectiveness of shareholder monitoring, establishing alternative accountability structures to punish and deter wrongdoing by firm agents, such as the board of directors.<br />An even more important consideration, however, is that agency costs are the inevitable consequence of vesting discretion in someone other than the residual claimant. We could substantially reduce, if not eliminate, agency costs by eliminating discretion; that we do not do so suggests that discretion has substantial virtues. A complete theory of the firm thus requires one to balance the virtues of discretion against the need to require that discretion be used responsibly. Neither discretion nor accountability can be ignored, because both promote values essential to the survival of business organizations. Unfortunately, they are ultimately antithetical: one cannot have more of one without also having less of the other. The power to hold to account is ultimately the power to decide. Managers cannot be made more accountable without undermining their discretionary authority.<br />The root economic argument against shareholder activism thus becomes apparent. Large-scale institutional involvement in corporate decisionmaking seems likely to disrupt the very mechanism that makes the modern public corporation practicable; namely, the centralization of essentially nonreviewable decisionmaking authority in the board of directors. Given the significant virtues of discretion, one ought not lightly interfere with management or the board's decisionmaking authority in the name of accountability. Preservation of managerial discretion should always be the null hypothesis. The separation of ownership and control mandated by U.S. corporate law has precisely that effect.	2001-02-16
US	52966758	R2O54KL6N4JBK9	0671431544	75498064	The Spirit of Democratic Capitalism	Books	5	56	60	N	N	Brilliant, provocative, learned, faithful	Michael Novak is probably the foremost Christian thinker on the economy. Any of his books reward study, but &quot;The Spirit of Democratic Capitalism&quot; is undoubtedly his magnum opus. In this classic text, which has now been updated and revised, Novak joins issue with theologians like Paul Tillich who contend that &quot;any serious Christian must be a socialist.&quot; It appeared in a samizdat (underground) edition in Poland during the 1980s and had an obvious impact on the Solidarity movement. Its reasoned defense of democratic capitalism as being grounded in the humane values of the Judeo-Christian tradition also helped give a moral center to the neo-conservative movement.<br />In &quot;Democratic Capitalism,&quot; Novak addresses the consistency of capitalism with church teachings on wealth. Novak recognizes that church teaching has been hostile to capitalism, as with much else of modernity. Yet, Novak contends that arguments against capitalism serve mainly to give aid and comfort to the Leviathan state. Indeed, Novak persuasively (if controversially) attributes Christian opposition to capitalism to two main sources: ignorance and antique world views. Church leaders and theologians tend to have either a pre-capitalist or a frankly socialist set of ideals about political economy.<br />To be clear, Novak does not believe that faith should be subordinated to capitalism. To the contrary, he recognizes that the divine plan was that we should enjoy the fruits of the earth and of our own industry. He simply contends that capitalism is the best way Fallen humans have yet devised to obey the Biblical command that we are to be stewards of God's world. Novak never loses sight of the basic proposition that it was equally the divine plan that God should be worshiped, obeyed, and feared. The fear of the Lord, he would argue, is the beginning of capitalist wisdom, just as it is of any other kind of wisdom. Not surprisingly, therefore, Novak's analysis has begun to impact the way the church thinks about capitalism. Pope John Paul II's most recent encyclicals on work and the economy, for example, such as Centesimus Annus, contain obvious marks of Novak's influence. In sum, very highly recommended.e way the church thinks about capitalism. Pope John Paul II's most recent encyclicals on work and the economy, for example, such as Centesimus Annus, contain obvious marks of Novak's influence. In sum, very highly recommended.	2001-02-16
US	52966758	R1QJ17RMCQU21X	0394741013	110293853	Eagle Against the Sun: The American War With Japan	Books	5	67	70	N	N	The classic story of the Pacific War	As a history of the Pacific War, Eagle Against the Sun is rivalled only by Samuel Eliot Morison's 15 volume classic. Ironically, however, Spector packs far more detail into this classic one volume narrative than Morison managed to include in 15. Where Morison slighted organization, logistics, and sociological issues in favor of action, Spector gives such issues the attention they deserve. The Pacific War was a war of logistics--moving massive volumes of men and material across thousands of miles of ocean. The Pacific War was also a fascinating study in race and gender relations, with early and problematic evolution towards the modern integrated force. Spector addresses all these issues, while still telling an exciting story of action and heroism.<br />Spector is eminently well-qualified to write such a history. A Marine Corps veteran (Viet Nam), Spector is also a professional historian. He understands combat as few historians do. Spector is also a talented writer, whose prose flows quickly and powerfully.<br />Spector's careful analysis of the controversial decision to use atomic weapons against Japan is especially well-done. He acknowledges that there are legitimate arguments--both moral and military--against their use. He notes that critics of the decision included not only left-leaning academics, but also army and navy leaders resisting air force officers who believed that SAC rendered the other branches obsolete. Yet, he persuasively argues that tha atomic bombs, coupled with Russia's invasion of Manchuria, were the exogenous shocks that finally destabilized Japan's militarist regime.<br />In sum, very highly recommended.	2001-02-15
US	52966758	R2LQZEX5UPQ4UC	0385471904	203862461	Faith and Treason: The Story of the Gunpowder Plot	Books	4	42	45	N	N	Truth is indeed stranger than fiction	Few tales better illustrate the old saw, &quot;truth is stranger than fiction,&quot; than the story of the Gunpowder Plot. In 1605, Catholic militants disappointed by James I's failure to move towards toleration (allegedly) tried to blow up Parliament by piling gunpowder in a basement. The (purported) plot was discovered in the nick of time. England still celebrates Guy Fawkes' Day to celebrate the failure of the Gunpowder Plot and, among other things, Beefeaters still search the basements of Westminster (in full regalia, no less).<br />The Gunpowder Plot has long been highly controversial. Catholic apologists have claimed that the whole thing was invented by Robert Cecil, Earl of Salisbury, King James' chief minister, and master of a vast intelligence network, with the assistance of Sir Edward Coke as Crown Prosecutor. Protestant apologists claim the Plot was real, the danger was real, and only narrowly averted (by God's special favor).<br />Antonia Fraser is a leading popular historian of the Tudor and Stuart periods of English history, as well as an accomplished novelist. She writes well, tells stories lucidly, and has a demonstrated command of the period. In &quot;Faith and Treason,&quot; she strikes a balanced note. Yes, there was a plot. But the danger was not very real--Salisbury discovered the plot early, the gunpowder was defective, and Salisbury left it in the basement to be dramatically discovered so that the discovery would have maximum political effect. She makes a compelling case.<br />Fraser is sympathetic to the Catholic plotters, recognizing that they had been pushed too far, but she also doesn't hesitate to call them traitors and terrorists. Contrary to what some reviewers have said, she is not an apologist for either side. Instead, this is a fair and balanced account, written with the verve and style of a novel. Highly recommended.	2001-02-15
US	52966758	R2LZ5C3PJO2UJC	0140111654	804404485	The Penguin Wodehouse Companion	Books	4	6	7	N	N	Indispensable for addicts	Penguin's Wodehouse Companion is actually a compilation of two earlier books by Richard Usborne--&quot;Wodehouse at Work to the End&quot; and &quot;A Wodehouse Companion.&quot; It combines elements of biography, critical bibliography, and apologia (for the controversial Berlin broadcasts). Brief plot summaries of all 92 novels are included. If you love Wodehouse, but have trouble keeping all the tangled skeins straight, this text will be of immense utility. It could have been improved by an encyclopedic coverage of the characters and key props. Hopefully Penguin will see fit to bring it back into print.	2001-02-15
US	52966758	R18ZF2CBOMT0J	0321064828	179941311	Law and Economics (3rd Edition)	Books	5	15	15	N	N	Excellent introduction to an important area	There are a number of good introductory works to law and economics. Richard Posner's Economic Analysis of the Law, for example, is a widely used and heavily-cited text. Yet, Cooter and Ulen have produced a text that deserves a top ranking in this growing field.<br />Law and economics is a school of jurisprudence in which the tools of microeconomic analysis are used to study law. Those lawyers, judges, and legal scholars who practice economic analysis have a deceptively simple task. They translate some legal doctrine into economic terms. They then apply a few basic tools of neoclassical microeconomics, such as cost-benefit analysis, collective action theory, decisionmaking under uncertainty, and risk aversion, to the problem. Finally, they translate the result back into legal terms.<br />Law and economics radically transformed legal thinking. Traditional forms of legal scholarship were mostly backward-looking. One reasoned from old precedents to decide a present case, seemingly without much concern (at least explicitly) for the effect today's decision would have on future behavior. Yet, law is necessarily forward-looking. To be sure, a major function of our legal system is to resolve present disputes, but law's principal function is to regulate future behavior. The law and economics movement succeeded because it recognized that judges cannot administer justice solely retrospectively. They must also consider what rules their decisions will create to guide the behavior of other actors in the future. The genius of law and economics was giving judges a systematic mechanism for predicting how rules will affect behavior. Cooter and Ulen demonstrate this by applying basic economic principles across a wide array of both common law and statutory areas. They tackles topics in such diverse areas as property, torts, contracts, and criminal law. In effect, they provide an economic analysis of the first year of law school.<br />Cooter and Ulen recognize that it is important to distinguish between positive and normative uses of economic analysis. At the risk of being too simplistic, positive law and economics asks whether the law is efficient; normative law and economics commands that the law ought to be efficient.  The point of positive economic analysis of law is to determine how people are likely to behave under a given legal regime. In trying to make behavioral predictions, positive law and economics does nothing more than to apply modern microeconomic tools to legal rules. The utility of positive economic analysis should be obvious. Economics is generally quite good at predicting how people respond to changes in prices.  If we think of legal sanctions as the cost of engaging in certain activities, changing a legal rule is no different than any other change in prices. The former is just as subject to analysis under price theory and game theory as the latter. Imposing a more onerous legal sanction on the use of illegal drugs, for example, is the functional equivalent of charging more for tobacco. Just as people respond to higher prices by consuming less of the good (here tobacco), they should respond to enhanced legal sanctions by engaging in less of the regulated activity (here consuming illegal drugs). Hence, positive economics provides a mechanism for separating the wheat from the chaff-figuring out which facts are the really significant ones, by identifying those facts most relevant to behavior.<br />It is law and economics' normative claims that arouse the most controversy. In its normative guise, law and economics claims that society should make efficient decisions-put another way, society should make decisions that maximize social wealth. To their credit, Cooter and Ulen do not shy away from tackling tough normative questions. Yet, at the same time, the analysis is always thoughtful and balanced.<br />One nice touch, which makes the text useful for a wide audience, is that it does not assume familiarity with either economics or law.A 40+ page chapter is devoted to a review of microeconomics, which is followed by a 20 page chapter on the basics of the legal system. Consequently, the book will serve well the interests both of lawyers who need to brush up on the economics and economists interested in law.<br />Finally, there are extensive and well-balanced lists of additional reading.A 40+ page chapter is devoted to a review of microeconomics, which is followed by a 20 page chapter on the basics of the legal system. Consequently, the book will serve well the interests both of lawyers who need to brush up on the economics and economists interested in law.<br />Finally, there are extensive and well-balanced lists of additional reading.	2001-01-12
US	52966758	R2ZFQWJWMYMZNK	0674235398	380923925	The Economic Structure of Corporate Law	Books	5	24	24	N	N	A classic of the field	Easterbrook and Fischel collected a series of law review articles into the classic text on the contractarian theory of corporate law. During the 1980s, E&amp;F were two of the corporate law academy's enfants terribles. Their articles were provocative, yet insightful. They raised a lot of hackles, yet did ground-breaking work. Both E&amp;F have gone on to bigger and better things. Easterbrook is now a judge on the US 7th Circuit. Fischel is dean of the UChicago law school. &quot;The Economic Structure ...&quot; stands as their legacy for corporate law.<br />Like other contractarians, E&amp;F model the firm not as an entity, but as an aggregate of various inputs acting together to produce goods or services. Employees provide labor. Creditors provide debt capital. Shareholders initially provide equity capital and subsequently bear the risk of losses and monitor the performance of management. Management monitors the performance of employees and coordinates the activities of all the firm's inputs. The firm is simply a legal fiction representing the complex set of contractual relationships between these inputs. In other words, the firm is not a thing, but rather a nexus or web of explicit and implicit contracts establishing rights and obligations among the various inputs making up the firm.<br />The nexus of contracts model has important implications for a range of corporate law topics, the most obvious of which is the debate over the proper role of mandatory legal rules. As a positive matter, contractarians contend that corporate law in fact is generally comprised of default rules, from which the parties to the set of contracts making up the corporation are free to depart, rather than mandatory rules. As a normative matter, contractarians argue that this is just as it should be. E&amp;F devote the bulk of this text to tweaking out these implications across an array of important topics, such as limited liability and insider trading.<br />Their analysis is not flawless. As but a single example, E&amp;F consistently opt for the so-called majoritarian default. Their basic thesis is that by providing the rule to which the parties would agree if they could bargain, society facilitates private ordering. Majoritarian defaults are not always desirable, however, even if a potentially dominant one can be identified.  Sometimes penalty defaults are preferable. Penalty defaults are designed to impose a penalty on at least one of the parties if they fail to bargain out of the default rule, thereby giving at least the party subject to the penalty an incentive to negotiate a contractual alternative to the penalty default. They force the parties to choose affirmatively the contract provision they prefer. Penalty defaults are appropriate where it is costly for courts to determine what the parties would have wanted. In such cases, it may be more efficient for the parties to negotiate a term ex ante than for courts to determine ex post what the parties would have wanted.<br />Having said that, however, this remains one of the most significant monographs on corporate law. I highly recommend it for an corporate lawyer's bookshelf.but a single example, E&amp;F consistently opt for the so-called majoritarian default. Their basic thesis is that by providing the rule to which the parties would agree if they could bargain, society facilitates private ordering. Majoritarian defaults are not always desirable, however, even if a potentially dominant one can be identified.  Sometimes penalty defaults are preferable. Penalty defaults are designed to impose a penalty on at least one of the parties if they fail to bargain out of the default rule, thereby giving at least the party subject to the penalty an incentive to negotiate a contractual alternative to the penalty default. They force the parties to choose affirmatively the contract provision they prefer. Penalty defaults are appropriate where it is costly for courts to determine what the parties would have wanted. In such cases, it may be more efficient for the parties to negotiate a term ex ante than for courts to determine ex post what the parties would have wanted.<br />Having said that, however, this remains one of the most significant monographs on corporate law. I highly recommend it for an corporate lawyer's bookshelf.	2001-01-11
US	52966758	R1BD9NIWHC8OK2	068486374X	38282201	The Economic Institutions of Capitalism	Books	4	45	46	N	N	A classic of new institutional economics	EIoC is a classic work of new institutional economics. In it, Williamson works out his theories of transaction cost economics across an array of interesting economic questions. Most of the covered topics will be of interest not only to economists, but also to lawyers and policymakers. Among other examples, Williamson tackles such subjects as vertical integration, corporate governance, and industrial organizations.<br />Williamson's core idea is the theory of transaction cost economics. We can analogize transaction costs to friction: they are dead weight losses that reduce efficiency. They make transactions more costly and less likely to occur. Among the most important sources of transaction costs is the limited cognitive power of human decisionmakers. Unlike the Chicago School of law and economics, which posits the traditional concept of rational choice, Williamson asserts that rationality is bounded. Put another way, he assumes that economic actors seek to maximize their expected utility, but also that the limitations of human cognition often result in decisions that fail to maximize utility.  Decisionmakers inherently have limited memories, computational skills, and other mental tools, which in turn limit their ability to gather and process information. As he demonstrates, this phenomenon, known as bounded rationality,  has pervasive implications for understanding how institutions work.<br />At the policy level, transaction cost analysis is highly relevant to setting legal rules. Suppose a steam locomotive drives by a field of wheat. Sparks from the engine set crops on fire. Should the railroad company be liable? In a world of zero transaction costs, the initial assignment of rights is irrelevant. If the legal rule we choose is inefficient, the parties can bargain around it. In a world of transaction costs, however, the parties may not be able to bargain. This is likely to be true in our example. The railroad travels past the property of many landowners, who put their property to differing uses and put differing values on those uses. Negotiating an optimal solution will all of those owners would be, at best, time consuming and onerous. Hence, choosing the right rule-which is typically the rule the parties would have chosen if they were able to bargain (the so-called hypothetical bargain)-becomes quite important.<br />In sum, highly recommended. If so, you might ask, of course, why did I subtract one star? Mainly because of Williamson's unfortunate writing style. Although EIoC is largely free of the recreational mathematics that plagues modern economic writing, which is useful for those of us who flunked Differential Equations, it is very jargon-intensive. Worse yet, much of the jargon is self-created. All of which makes reading Williamson an effort-intensive project. Usually the cost-benefit analysis nevertheless comes out in his favor, but sometimes one puzzles out the jargon to find a rather obvious point that could have been conveyed far more simply. (The business about contracting nodes, pp. 32ff, is a classic example.)heir property to differing uses and put differing values on those uses. Negotiating an optimal solution will all of those owners would be, at best, time consuming and onerous. Hence, choosing the right rule-which is typically the rule the parties would have chosen if they were able to bargain (the so-called hypothetical bargain)-becomes quite important.<br />In sum, highly recommended. If so, you might ask, of course, why did I subtract one star? Mainly because of Williamson's unfortunate writing style. Although EIoC is largely free of the recreational mathematics that plagues modern economic writing, which is useful for those of us who flunked Differential Equations, it is very jargon-intensive. Worse yet, much of the jargon is self-created. All of which makes reading Williamson an effort-intensive project. Usually the cost-benefit analysis nevertheless comes out in his favor, but sometimes one puzzles out the jargon to find a rather obvious point that could have been conveyed far more simply. (The business about contracting nodes, pp. 32ff, is a classic example.)	2001-01-11
US	52966758	R1BXMB0V0NS9FK	0899423205	903822584	Imitation of Christ	Books	5	33	34	N	N	A wonderful devotional of great historical significance	Thomas a Kempis was medival monk and priest (1380-1471) who served as chronicler of the monastery at Mt. St. Agnes. During his long life of scholarship, he wrote several biographies of church fathers and a number of devotional works. The &quot;Imitation of Christ&quot; remains his most famous work and the one that has best stood the test of time. Indeed, one of the wonderful things about this work is that it reminds us that the life of the mind is not a creature of the Enlightenment. Even during the so-called Dark Ages there were brilliant scholars with a wide knowledge of both scripture and philosophy. Reflecting its vibrant insight into the human condition, the &quot;Imitation of Christ&quot; remains influential on both sides of the Reformation divide. It reportedly was, for example, one of John Wesley's favorite devotionals.<br />The &quot;Imitation of Christ&quot; is divided into 4 books, each undertaking a basic theme for development. They are, respectively, the Spiritual Life, the Inner Life, Inward Consolation, and the Blessed Sacrament (i.e., the Eucharist). In turn, each book is sub-divided into numerous chapters, each a page or two long. All of which makes the &quot;Imitation of Christ&quot; a useful book for daily devotionals. One can skip around freely within the book, dipping in as the mood strikes. Yet, I think one is well-served by reading it through at least once. Only then does one see Thomas' thought in its fully-developed form. Do be sure to get a good translation. I am fond of the one by Leo Sherley-Price.	2000-12-31
US	52966758	R3F7KCKVIZPHEN	0785242473	250602301	Imitation Of Christ Nelson's Royal Classics	Books	5	20	20	N	N	Splendid devotional of great historical significance	Thomas a Kempis was medival monk and priest (1380-1471) who served as chronicler of the monastery at Mt. St. Agnes. During his long life of scholarship, he wrote several biographies of church fathers and a number of devotional works. The &quot;Imitation of Christ&quot; remains his most famous work and the one that has best stood the test of time. Indeed, one of the wonderful things about this work is that it reminds us that the life of the mind is not a creature of the Enlightenment. Even during the so-called Dark Ages there were brilliant scholars with a wide knowledge of both scripture and philosophy. Reflecting its vibrant insight into the human condition, the &quot;Imitation of Christ&quot; remains influential on both sides of the Reformation divide. It reportedly was, for example, one of John Wesley's favorite devotionals.<br />The &quot;Imitation of Christ&quot; is divided into 4 books, each undertaking a basic theme for development. They are, respectively, the Spiritual Life, the Inner Life, Inward Consolation, and the Blessed Sacrament (i.e., the Eucharist). In turn, each book is sub-divided into numerous chapters, each a page or two long. All of which makes the &quot;Imitation of Christ&quot; a useful book for daily devotionals. One can skip around freely within the book, dipping in as the mood strikes. Yet, I think one is well-served by reading it through at least once. Only then does one see Thomas' thought in its fully-developed form. Do be sure to get a good translation. I am fond of the one by Leo Sherley-Price.	2000-12-31
US	52966758	R3SOH2GXX747PY	0802841805	123957278	The Scandal of the Evangelical Mind	Books	5	127	138	N	N	Insightful, caring, yet provocative	Mark Noll is a chaired professor of &quot;christian thought,&quot; at Wheaton College - one of the great Evangelical liberal arts colleges, as well as being one of the leading church historians of our time. Noll is also one of the leading public intellectuals within the Evangelical movement. (By public intellectual, I mean an academic whose is grounded in rigorous scholarship but who also writes - at a high level - for the general public. Stephen Carter of Yale is another good example of a Christian public intellectual.)<br />Evangelicals are all too often typecast as hillbillies who neither read nor think. Like most stereotypes, there is a grain of truth to the characterization - where there is smoke there is usually fire. In the &quot;Scandal of the Evangelical Mind,&quot; Noll issues a wake-up call for a renewed commitment to the life of the mind on the part of Evangelicals. Noll begins by persuasively demonstrating the existence of an intellectual deficit among Evangelicals. In contrast to the Catholic-leaning journals like First Things or the New Oxford review, there is no real Evangelical journal of public thought. There are few scholarly journals focusing on Evangelical perspectives. Evangelical colleges emphasize teaching at the expense of scholarly research, despite decades of proof that the good teaching and good scholarship goes hand in hand.<br />Noll then traces the historical roots of this scandal, showing that there was a time when Evangelicals dominated top institutions of learning. What caused the decline? In what must surely be the most controversial portion of the book, Noll lays the blame on an anti-intellectual strain of populist fundamentalism. As someone who grew up with many working class fundamentalist relatives, I am more sympathetic towards that world view than is Noll. Indeed, Noll candidly admits that his thesis rests in part on his theological disputes with fundamentalism. Yet, as an adult convert to Catholicism currently going through RCIA, I have no doubt that the life of the mind is more highly regarded in Catholicism than in the fundamentalist protestantism of my youth. Unfortunately, the fundamentalists' appropriate rejection of modernity and secular humanism simply painted with too broad a brush.<br />Noll concludes with a slightly self-serving call to action. I say &quot;slightly self-serving&quot; because Noll's call to action includes the idea that Evangelical colleges ought to pay more attention to scholarship. As a top-notch scholar at a leading Evangelical college, Noll probably would benefit from such a shift in emphasis. yet, as Aadam Smith pointed out centuries ago, there is no more powerful engine for the public good than enlightened self-interest. Noll's call to action deserves to be heeded. All Christians, including all evangelicals, are called to serve God not only with our heats but also with our minds.RCIA, I have no doubt that the life of the mind is more highly regarded in Catholicism than in the fundamentalist protestantism of my youth. Unfortunately, the fundamentalists' appropriate rejection of modernity and secular humanism simply painted with too broad a brush.<br />Noll concludes with a slightly self-serving call to action. I say &quot;slightly self-serving&quot; because Noll's call to action includes the idea that Evangelical colleges ought to pay more attention to scholarship. As a top-notch scholar at a leading Evangelical college, Noll probably would benefit from such a shift in emphasis. yet, as Aadam Smith pointed out centuries ago, there is no more powerful engine for the public good than enlightened self-interest. Noll's call to action deserves to be heeded. All Christians, including all evangelicals, are called to serve God not only with our heats but also with our minds.	2000-12-31
US	52966758	RKKH3E2N0OJXT	0688151213	32200695	Cooking with Too Hot Tamales: Recipes & Tips From TV Food's Spiciest Cooking Duo	Books	5	30	30	N	N	Execellent for both the hobbyist and everyday cook	Mary Sue Miliken and Susan Feniger are two of the top chefs in LA. (And maybe the top female duo.) For those of us who grew up equating Mexican food with Tex-Mex, Miliken and Feniger's inventive take on traditional Mexican cuisine is a revelation. Their &quot;Border Grill&quot; in Santa Monica (4th and Broadway) is a noisy, splashy, foodie haven with superb drinks, a decent wine/beer list, and amazing food. For several years they also produced a fun and informational show on the Food network before that cable network went all-Emeril all-the-time. &quot;Cooking with Two Hot Tamales&quot; captures a lot of recipes and tips from the show. Many of the recipes herein one occasionally sees on Border Grill's menu. The house gucamole recipe is almost worth the price of the book on its own!<br />As a cookbook, Two Hot Tamales is interesting, has an attractive layout, and, by the minimal standards of the genre, is well-written. Unlike their Mesa Mexicana, which I recomend only for the hobbyist chef with access to a decent Mexican grocer and time on his/her hands, Two Hot Tamales can be used on an everyday basis. Few of the recipes involve intensive prep work -- after all, they had to be prepared within the confines of a 30 minute TV show. Equally important for users outside the South-west, few of the recipes require specialized ingredients. Highly recommended.	2000-12-25
US	52966758	R3OX8HDM5VQ06C	0688106498	30549156	Mesa Mexicana	Books	5	24	25	N	N	Excellent for the hobbyist chef, but not everyday	Mary Sue Miliken and Susan Feniger are two of the top chefs in LA. Their &quot;Border Grill&quot; in Santa Monica (4th and Broadway) is a noisy, splashy, foodie haven with superb drinks, a decent wine/beer list, and amazing food. Mesa Mexicana offers recipes that one might easily see on Border Grill's menu. For those of us who grew up equating Mexican food with Tex-Mex, Miliken and Feniger's inventive take on traditional Mexican cuisine is a revelation.<br />As a cookbook, Mesa Mexicana is interesting, has an attractive layout, and, by the minimal standards of the genre, is well-written. One would not want to use it on an everyday basis. Many of the recipes involve a fairly intensive amount of prep work and/or require specialized ingredients. For the hobbyist chef with access to a decent Mexican grocer and time on his/her hands, however, it is an inspiring and provocative work. Highly recommended on that qualified basis.	2000-12-22
US	52966758	R3GLEF3K5O9OPH	0393036995	470267664	The Revolt of the Elites: And the Betrayal of Democracy	Books	5	148	157	N	N	A sobering look at democracy in the New Economy	In &quot;the Revolt of the Elites&quot; Christoper Lasch powerfully and persuasively contends that that the values and attitudes of professional and managerial elites and those of the working classes have dramatically diverged. Although the claim is controverted,  many of us on the right (especially social conservatives) agree with the quasi-populist/communitarian notion that democracy works best when all members of society can participate in a world of upward mobility and of achievable status. In such a world, members of society will perceive themselves as belonging to the same team and care about ensuring that that team succeeds.  But how can society achieve this sort of mutual interdependence if its members are not part of a community of shared values?  As Christopher Lasch explains: &quot;[T]he new elites, the professional classes in particular, regard the  masses with mingled scorn and apprehension.&quot; For too many of these elites, the values of &quot;Middle America&quot; - a/k/a &quot;fly-over country&quot; - are mindless patriotism, religious  fundamentalism, racism, homophobia, and retrograde views of women.  &quot;Middle Americans, as they appear to the makers of educated opinion,  are hopelessly shabby, unfashionable, and provincial, ill informed  about changes in taste or intellectual trends, addicted to trashy novels of romance and adventure, and stupefied by prolonged exposure  to television.  They are at once absurd and vaguely menacing.&quot; (28)<br />The tension between elite and non-elite attitudes is most pronounced with respect to religious belief. While our society admittedly is increasingly pluralistic, &quot;the democratic reality, even, if you will, the raw demographic reality,&quot; as Father Neuhaus has observed, &quot;is that most Americans derive their values and visions from the biblical tradition.&quot;  Yet, Lasch points out, elite attitudes towards religion are increasingly hostile:  &quot;A skeptical, iconoclastic state of mind is one of the distinguishing characteristics of the knowledge classes. ...  The elites' attitude to religion ranges from indifference to active hostility.&quot; (215)<br />Lash claims that the divergence in elite and non-elite attitudes is troubling for the future of democracy. Its hard for me to gainsay him. Yet, while &quot;The Revolt of the Elites&quot; is sobering - even a tad depressing - it deserves to be read even more widely than it has been. Lasch is no partisan. Conservative proponents of unfettered capitalism get bashed about the head by Lasch just as much as liberal critics of capitalism. Populists will find themselves nodding in agreement with some sections, while communitarians will concur with other sections. About the only folks who will be offended by all of &quot;The Revolt of the Elites&quot; are hardened libertarians and extreme left-liberals. Highly recommended.is one of the distinguishing characteristics of the knowledge classes. ...  The elites' attitude to religion ranges from indifference to active hostility.&quot; (215)<br />Lash claims that the divergence in elite and non-elite attitudes is troubling for the future of democracy. Its hard for me to gainsay him. Yet, while &quot;The Revolt of the Elites&quot; is sobering - even a tad depressing - it deserves to be read even more widely than it has been. Lasch is no partisan. Conservative proponents of unfettered capitalism get bashed about the head by Lasch just as much as liberal critics of capitalism. Populists will find themselves nodding in agreement with some sections, while communitarians will concur with other sections. About the only folks who will be offended by all of &quot;The Revolt of the Elites&quot; are hardened libertarians and extreme left-liberals. Highly recommended.	2000-12-22
US	52966758	R1J5ANXOGKAIG3	0517588099	153563458	Lee Bailey's Tomatoes	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Small but tasty	This is a short, compact cookbook specializing in tomato recipes. It is beautfifully illustrated with some of the finest food photography I've ever seen. The recipes are uniformly straight-forward, requiring only basic ingredients and fairly standard equipment. The modestly competent home cook will have no difficulty with most of the recipes here. If you've ever stared at your tomato patch wondering what the heck to do with all those tomatoes, this is the book for you. I've made almost every recipe herein and loved almost every one. But the tomato spoonbread is my favorite. Its almost worth the price of the book just for that recipe.	2000-12-22
US	52966758	RJMNG2R57COPU	0844737445	413676526	Toward a Theology of the Corporation (Studies in Religion, Philosophy, and Public Policy)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	A superb, theologically sound analysis of capitalism	Michael Novak is probably the foremost Christian thinker on the economy. His &quot;Toward a Theology of the Corporation&quot; is an under-appreciated classic that succinctly, yet powerfully, sets out a theologically sound analysis of the modern corporation and its role in society. In this slender and well-written volume, Novak joins issue with theologians like Paul Tillich who contend that &quot;any serious Christian must be a socialist.&quot;<br />THEOLOGY has two principal themes. First, it is addressed to those who work for corporations. Many Christians have been taught to feel, at best, &quot;faint disdain&quot; for corporations and those who manage them. In contrast, Novak knows that many (most) business men and women are ethical people who yearn for moral guidance and advice. Consequently, THEOLOGY tackles a basic moral question: &quot;Can a Christian Work for a Corporation.&quot; Novak's answer? &quot;Yes!&quot; (Those wishing more detailed discussion of practical business ethics ought also read Novak's &quot;Business as Calling.&quot;)<br />Yet, Novak recognized that anyone who purported to think about practical business ethics needed to understand the predominant form of business organization-the public corporation. Much of THEOLOGY is thus devoted to an analysis of the corporation: Is the firm's structure as a bureaucratic hierarchy consistent with church teaching on human dignity? What social responsibility, if any, does the corporation have? And so forth.<br />Thinking about those questions naturally lead Novak to broader issues, such as the consistency of capitalism with church teachings on wealth. In THEOLOGY, therefore, Novak began working out the line of argument that was later developed more fully in his magisterial &quot;The Spirit of Democratic Capitalism.&quot; Novak recognizes that church teaching has been hostile to capitalism, as with much else of modernity. Yet, Novak contends that arguments against capitalism serve mainly to give aid and comfort to the Leviathan state<br />In the most controversial portions of THEOLOGY, Novak attributes Christian opposition to capitalism to two main sources: ignorance and antique world views. Church leaders and theologians tend to be poorly trained in economics and inexperienced with the world of economic reality.  Many believers (again, this is especially true of theologians) &quot;are likely to inherit either a pre-capitalist or a frankly socialist set of ideals about political economy.&quot;  As a result, &quot;Church leaders are more likely to err in this territory [i.e., economic justice] than in most others.&quot; (p. 59.)<br />To be clear, Novak does not believe that faith should be subordinated to capitalism. To the contrary, he recognizes that the divine plan was that we should enjoy the fruits of the earth and of our own industry. He simply contends that capitalism is the best way Fallen humans have yet devised to obey the Biblical command that we are to be stewards of God's world. Novak never loses sight of the basic proposition that it was equally the divine plan that God should be worshiped, obeyed, and feared. The fear of the Lord, he would argue, is the beginning of capitalist wisdom, just as it is of any other kind of wisdom. Not surprisingly, therefore, Novak's analysis has begun to impact the way the church thinks about capitalism. Pope John Paul II's most recent encyclicals on work and the economy, for example, such as Centesimus Annus, contain obvious marks of Novak's influence. In sum, THEOLOGY is very highly recommended for any Christian interested in corporations.fort to the Leviathan state<br />In the most controversial portions of THEOLOGY, Novak attributes Christian opposition to capitalism to two main sources: ignorance and antique world views. Church leaders and theologians tend to be poorly trained in economics and inexperienced with the world of economic reality.  Many believers (again, this is especially true of theologians) &quot;are likely to inherit either a pre-capitalist or a frankly socialist set of ideals about political economy.&quot;  As a result, &quot;Church leaders are more likely to err in this territory [i.e., economic justice] than in most others.&quot; (p. 59.)<br />To be clear, Novak does not believe that faith should be subordinated to capitalism. To the contrary, he recognizes that the divine plan was that we should enjoy the fruits of the earth and of our own industry. He simply contends that capitalism is the best way Fallen humans have yet devised to obey the Biblical command that we are to be stewards of God's world. Novak never loses sight of the basic proposition that it was equally the divine plan that God should be worshiped, obeyed, and feared. The fear of the Lord, he would argue, is the beginning of capitalist wisdom, just as it is of any other kind of wisdom. Not surprisingly, therefore, Novak's analysis has begun to impact the way the church thinks about capitalism. Pope John Paul II's most recent encyclicals on work and the economy, for example, such as Centesimus Annus, contain obvious marks of Novak's influence. In sum, THEOLOGY is very highly recommended for any Christian interested in corporations.	2000-12-11
US	52966758	R12QJ6GQQH9JDN	0803294379	281428091	Battle: The Story of the Bulge	Books	4	10	10	N	N	Excellent fox-hole eye view of the Battle of the Bulge	Too much World War II history is told from the perspective of Generals. In recent years, of course, there has been an explosion of narratives that focus on the GIs in the foxholes. Stephen Ambrose's Citizen Soldiers is the classic of this recent literature. (There is an analogy in the movies, by the way. &quot;The Longest Day&quot; and &quot;The Battle of the Bulge&quot; are mostly officer level stories, in contrast to &quot;Saving Private Ryan.&quot;) But John Toland's magisterial &quot;Battle: The Story of the Bulge&quot; was one of the earliest examples of the genre of GI historys. Written in 1959, in fact, BATTLE was way ahead of its time. Many of the themes of GI history are present here, such as the emphasis on grunts and the isolation of too many commanders.<br />A core theme of BATTLE is that the Bulge was a crucible in which the American army came of age as a warrior team. American military tactics have long emphasized firepower and technology. (Desert Storm was hardly a novelty.) In large part, this focus has lead to a persistent myth that the British and Germans were better soldiers and that the US won only by virtue of material superiority. BATTLE proves that this is just a canard. BATTLE demonstrates that for much of the Bulge, the US units were out-numbered and out-gunned. But the GIs dug in, held, fought back, and won. And the Bulge became a battle America's foes ought to study with care.<br />Given my considerable admiration for BATTLE, why did I knock off one star? First, I had a hard time keeping track of the plot, as it were. Toland's narrative is a little hard to follow in some places. The maps provided are inadequate both qualitatively and quantitatively...there are too few and those that are included are quite primitive. The lack of an Order of Battle is also a problem, as it the absence of a glossary.<br />Second, a couple of important aspects of the Bulge are inadequately developed. The highly controversial Malmedy massacre gets only abbreviated coverage. Ditto Monty's mishandling of the northern front and the difficulties that resulted for the Allied coalition's unity. The lack of strategic insight, of course, is not atypical in the GI history genre.<br />Despite those quibbles, this is a masterpiece of narrative history. Any student of World War II will find it of great interest. Highly recommended.ted coverage. Ditto Monty's mishandling of the northern front and the difficulties that resulted for the Allied coalition's unity. The lack of strategic insight, of course, is not atypical in the GI history genre.<br />Despite those quibbles, this is a masterpiece of narrative history. Any student of World War II will find it of great interest. Highly recommended.	2000-12-10
US	52966758	R38VNXDQRQV0FO	0399145761	539869630	What if...?	Books	4	9	9	N	N	Mixed bag with some real taste treats and a few stinkers	The premise is sound: take a bunch of the most prominent Anglo-American historians, most of whom are also excellent writers, and ask them what might have happened if some event in their area of expertise had come out differently. The title's claim that the book brings together &quot;the World's Foremost&quot; historians is obvious puffery--no non-Anglo-American historians are represented.<br />The formula followed by most of the essays in &quot;What If?&quot; is to take some pivotal event in history, describe what really happened, and ask how that event might have come out differently. In general, you don't get a lot of speculation about what would have happened next. Thomas Fleming's essay &quot;Unlikely Victory&quot; focuses on 13 ways in which the colonies might have lost the American Revolution. Fleming doesn't give you much speculation about what would have happened in a world in which the colonies law. Put another way, you don't get a lot of alternative history here; instead, you get a lot of speculative history about specific events. To be clear, I am not identifying this as a flaw, just trying to be clear about what you're going to get.<br />As with any collection of essays, &quot;What If?&quot; is something of a mixed bag. Some of the essays are really quite good. Fleming's &quot;Unlikely Victory&quot; really does a good job of identifying 13 ways the colonies could have lost. Moreover, Fleming doesn't push the analysis beyond the bounds of plausibility. Fleming concludes that some of his 13 ways, for example, were more likely to end in stalemate than outright British victory. The logistical and political problems faced by the British make it hard to imagine they could have won a clearcut victory. In contrast, John Keegan's essay on how Hitler could have won World War II struck me as far less plausible. Keegan speculates that in lieu of attacking Russia, Hitler could have struck through Anatolia into Iraq and maybe even Persia. I very much doubt whether Germany had the logistical infrastructure to support an attack of that magnitude over such great distances. Moreover, would it have been advisable for Hitler to expose such an extened flank to the Soviet's south? Surely a more plausible scenario is an August 1940 invasion of Britain.<br />On balance, however, the bulk of the essays reward reading. James McPherson is one of my two favorite Civil War historians (Shelby Foote is the other.) He assumes that the order for Lee's 1862 invasion of Pennsylvania did not fall into McClellan's hands and Lee is able to outflank McClellan, draw him out of Washington, and beat him decisively (at Gettysburg no less!). Britain and France threaten to intervene, forcing the Union to acknowledge Confederate indeependence. The essay is plausible and well-written. (It also uses the same plot devices as Harry Turtledove's excellent alternative history of the Civil War--i.e., the non-lost order of 1862.)<br />Victor Davis Hanson's essay on the Battle of Salamis was also quite interesting. The Persian invasion of Greece in 480 BC really was one of the pivotal events in the history of the West. It was also a very close-run thing--closer in fact than most of the other events analyzed in &quot;What If?&quot; I have read several accounts of Salamis, but Hanson's is probably the best--clear, well-written, and succinct. I especially liked Hanson's thoughtful analysis of Salamis' implications for the evolution of democracy. The Athenian land forces were dominated by elites--men of property. The navy was comprised mainly of the lower levels of society. Hanson plausibly claims that as a naval victory Salamis was a victory for democracy. With the navy in ascendancy, the polity had to expand.<br />In sum, highly recommended. You probably won't want to read &quot;What If&quot; in one sitting. Instead, I like to dip into it periodically to read an essay or two. Most of the essays are pretty short, so this approach works well. You won't enjoy all the essays, but you'll enjoy enough to make the purchase price well worth paying., but you'll enjoy enough to make the purchase price well worth paying.	2000-12-10
US	52966758	R2FT2JQ8ZLKLTU	0877936536	744352840	This Is Our Faith: A Catholic Catechism for Adults	Books	5	21	25	N	N	Excellent introduction to Catholicism...ideal for RCIA	We have been using &quot;This is our Faith&quot; by Michael Francis Pennock in our RCIA class. Written in a simple and direct style, &quot;This is our Faith&quot; is an eminently readable and highly accessible introduction to Catholic teaching and theology. Pennock divided the text into four sections that parallel those of the Catechism: The Profession of Faith, focusing on the creeds; The Celebration of the Christian Mystery, which focuses on liturgy and the sacraments; Life in Christ, which emphasizes Christian morals; and Christian Prayer. Individual chapters consist mostly of Questions and answers--making &quot;This is our Faith&quot; sort of a FAQ for Catholics. Each question is cross-referenced to the Catechism. Curiously, the teachers of my RCIA class sort of discourage us from reading the Catechism. (Is that typical?) But I like having the cross-references so that I can follow up where the text doesn't provide enough detail. Pennock's theology seems sound and conventional, yet he reflects both traditional church teaching and current thinking. Anyone in RCIA ought to pick up &quot;This is our Faith.&quot;	2000-12-10
US	52966758	R3BLWFCHX0EBZF	0060693495	805579241	Christ Among Us: A Modern Presentation of the Catholic Faith for Adults (6th Edition)	Books	3	51	65	N	N	A politically correct introduction to Catholicism	The first two books (other than the Bible) I read when I started thinking about becoming Catholic were Thomas Howard's &quot;Evangelical is not Enough&quot; and &quot;On Being Catholic&quot;--both of which I recommend highly. Yet, neither of those books answered all my questions. Neither is comprehensive and both operate at a pretty high level of abstraction. I also needed answers to questions like &quot;why do Catholics do that&quot;? Wilhelm's &quot;Christ Among Us&quot; was one of the first books I found that answered those sorts of questions. It has three great virtues: (1) It is highly readable and quite accessible. (2) It includes extensive citations to and quotations from primary church documents, which allows you to check what Wilhelm is saying. (3) It is quite comprehensive, covering a very wide range of theological and practical issues. Why then do I not rate &quot;Christ Among Us&quot;ore highly? Mostly because its politics are quite left of center and, relative to other theological works I've read, its doctrine seems pretty liberal too. If what you're looking for is an inclusive politically correct statement of the faith, &quot;Christ Among Us&quot; will probably make you very happy. If you're an admirer of the &quot;beauty of inflexibility,&quot; however, you won't find &quot;Christ Among Us&quot; as useful. As someone who finds Catholicism most attractive when it stands for moral truths in a post-modern world, I tend to fall into the latter camp and, consequently, down-grade it.	2000-12-05
US	52966758	RP0VWLN4OAQV0	087154847X	574848784	Quasi Rational Economics	Books	4	50	54	N	N	Technical and somewhat dated, but stilll valuable	As with any model claiming predictive power, economics rests on a theory of human behavior-specifically, rational choice theory, which posits decisionmakers who are autonomous individuals who make rational choices that maximize their satisfactions. Critics of economics have long complained that rational choice is, at best, an incomplete account of human behavior. The traditional response to that criticism is that rationality is simply an abstraction developed as a useful model of predicting the behavior of large numbers of people and, as such, does not purport to describe real people embedded in a real social order. A theory is properly judged by its predictive power with respect to the phenomena it purports to explain, not by whether it is a valid description of an objective reality. Accordingly, the relevant question to ask about the assumptions of a theory is not whether they are descriptively realistic, for they never are, but whether they are sufficiently good approximations for the purpose in hand. Until quite recently, empirical research tended to confirm that the rational choice model of human behavior is a good first approximation of how large numbers of people are likely to behave in exchange transactions.<br />Over the last 10-15 years, however, a new school of economic analysis has emerged that challenges the rational choice model precisely on its predictive power. Empirical and laboratory work by cognitive psychologists and experimental economists has identified a growing number of anomalies in which behavior appears to systematically depart from that predicted by rational choice. The extent to which behavioral economics calls into question more traditional modes of economic analysis remains sharply contested. At the very least, however, it seems clear that attention must be paid to the possibility that behavioral analysis sheds light on policy issues.<br />Richard Thaler is one of the foremost behavioral economists. This volume collects many of his early studies of behavior that departs from the predictions of rational choice economics. As such, this volume is more of an anthology than a coherent whole--and reads like it. The lay reader should also be warned that &quot;Quasi Rational Economics&quot; is, at beast, only quasi-accessible. Unlike &quot;Winner's Curse,&quot; which collects a (relatively) accessible a series of articles Thaler wrote for the Journal of Economic Perspectives, &quot;QRE&quot; collects his more technical literature. Yet, for those willing to tackle the math and technical analysis, it remains a useful introduction to the literature.rly studies of behavior that departs from the predictions of rational choice economics. As such, this volume is more of an anthology than a coherent whole--and reads like it. The lay reader should also be warned that &quot;Quasi Rational Economics&quot; is, at beast, only quasi-accessible. Unlike &quot;Winner's Curse,&quot; which collects a (relatively) accessible a series of articles Thaler wrote for the Journal of Economic Perspectives, &quot;QRE&quot; collects his more technical literature. Yet, for those willing to tackle the math and technical analysis, it remains a useful introduction to the literature.	2000-11-25
US	52966758	RZVKOO88EWI72	0801057787	666549360	Turning Points: Decisive Moments in the History of Christianity	Books	5	48	48	N	N	Splendid introdutory history of Christianity	In my opinion, Mark Noll is the foremost (American) church historian of our generation. In a series of books, he has set forth biblically-grounded and scholarly rigorous treatment of a vast range of theological and historical issues. Almost single handedly he is has reversed the dearth of evangelical intellectualism.<br />Turning Points is one of Noll's most accessible books. Not a dry scholarly treatise, but rather a lively and well-written overview of 12 critical events in the history of Christianity. Noll's idea is that focusing on specific episodes not only allows for a more detailed treatment of each than would be possible in a comprehensive text, but also permits &quot;more opportunity interpretive reflection.&quot; I think he was exactly right--he can go into considerable depth on each event, explaining why it was so significant.<br />Turning Points thus does not pretend to be a comprehensive narrative. For those looking for such a treatment, may I recommend Paul Johnson's &quot;History of Christianity,&quot; which I regard as the finest one-volume comprehensive church history.<br />Like any list-making project, one can quibble with Noll's choices. He leaves out some of my favorite episodes (which is not exactly the right phrase, but you get my point). Not included are such events as the three Great Awakenings; the installation of John Paul II; the crusades; and so on. At the same time, however, it is hard to quibble with Noll's choices. Events like Nicea, Worms, the French Revolution, and so on were all major &quot;turning points&quot; that deserved comprehensive treatment.<br />As an adult convert to Catholicism from evangelicalism, I particularly appreciated Noll's objectivity and even-handedness. Without betraying his own evangelical tradition, Noll treats Catholicism eminently fairly.	2000-11-24
US	52966758	R2YNQYTH8WQXIX	0300077998	958142798	Saints and Sinners: A History of the Popes	Books	5	18	18	N	N	Splendid comprehensive history of the Papacy	I did not see the TV series for which this text is a companion, but it is hard to imagine that anything on television could be as satisfying as this short history of the papacy. Highly recommended.<br />Saints and Sinners is lavishly and splendidly illustrated. Spectacular photography and reproductions of countless major works of art relating to the Papacy. This is prefectly appropriate as one of the major themes of the text is the Papacy's support for the arts and beautification of Rome.<br />Yet, of course, the text is what matters. Eamon Duffy is an important British historian, but this is no dry scholarly treatise. Instead, it is a highly intelligent but eminently accessible narrative. A comprehensive history of a 2000 year old institution, of course, must skimp on some details. Yet, Duffy consistently makes wise choices as to coverage. The chapter on Renaissance popes, for example, focuses not on the big names like Julius II but on the relatively obscure Nicholas V. Yet, as the first of the Humanist popes, Nicholas' story arguably is more important for understanding Catholicism than would be another rehashing of the Sistine Chapel ceiling story.	2000-11-24
US	52966758	R1IF04AX49D6OT	0812508424	990472454	Shadows Linger: A Novel of the Black Company (The Second Chronicle of The Black Company)	Books	5	33	35	N	N	My personal favorite of the whole series	I LOVE the Black Company series. But Shadows Linger is easily my favorite novel in the whole series. Here's why: The Black Company is one of the great creations of modern fantasy. In a genre in which most stories are starkly black and white--really great good guys and really bad villans--the Black Company (contra its name) lives in grey. In a genre in which heroes are all-knowing and all-powerful, the Black Company is filled with fallible, vulnerable humans. Yet, they nevertheless are the baddest outfit around. Remember how we reworked Psalm 23 back in the '60s? &quot;Yea, though I walk through the Valley of the Shadow of Death, I shall fear no evil--for I am the baddest SOB in the valley!&quot; That could be the Black Company motto.<br />One of the things I like best about Cook's novels is that the story line is more important than the individual characters. Yet, in Shadows Linger, my favorite characters take center stage. Croaker leads a Company detachment to the town of Juniper (which itself is a great location that is fully realized.) Raven is in town contributing his unique brand of honor and violence. Eventually they meet in a wild climax.<br />One of the striking things about the Black Company is Cook's notion of honor. The Company's code of ethics is focused almost wholly inwardly. Honor vis-a-vis the outside world consists of keeping one's contracts. Otherwise, honor is focused on one's relationships within the Company. This is both the Company's greatest strength and also its greatest weakness. A critical element of the series is the Company's gradual coming to grips with the nonsustainability of its ethical structure. Shadows Linger is a critical plot point in this line of plot evolution. In it, the Company must decide whether honoring its contract with Lady is worth its collective soul.	2000-11-23
US	52966758	R1GK1Y0TV8FT34	0393320561	8106886	Lexington and Concord: The Beginning of the War of the American Revolution	Books	5	16	17	N	N	Iconic treatment of the birth of a nation	The events of April 19, 1775, in Lexington and Concord obviously are central to the American story. In this marvelous work of narrative history, Arthur Tourtellot provides a seminal account of those events. As a visiting professor at a Boston university during the 2000-2001 academic year, I have had the good fortune of living in Lexington. I have spent many hours wandering the Minuteman National Monument, Battle Road, and the Lexington and Concord greens, with Tourtellot's book in hand. The area is quite different today then it was in 1775, of course. On the one hand, the towns obviously  are much bigger. On the other hand, however, many of the cleared farm fields of 1775 are now covered with second growth forest. One cannot, for example, easily see North Bridge--let alone town center--from Punkatasset Hill. Nonetheless, Tourtellot's careful narrative makes the scene come alive. His clear telling of the story makes it possible for one to follow the action quite closely.<br />One of the most interesting aspects of Tourtellot's text is emphasis on the intersection of religion and politics in understanding the motivations of the population of Lexington and Concord. In particular, he puts Rev. Jonas Clarke (Lexington's town minister) at the center of the stage. As Tourtellot persuasively argues, it was Clarke's influence that led to Captain Parker's otherwise rather puzzling decision to take a stand with 60 or 70 men against hundreds of British regulars.<br />In sum, very highly recommended.	2000-11-23
US	52966758	R3W3374I4O6KEA	0441003745	132449687	Bloody Bones (Anita Blake, Vampire Hunter)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	My favorite series but not my favorite novel	The Anita Blake series is a wonderfully fresh take on a somewhat tired genre. Imagine a female Spencer (cf. Robert Parker) turned loose in a world in which vampires, zombies, were-creatures, and ghouls really exist. Hamilton's originality and creativity even prompted her to have the Supreme Court recognize the constitutional rights of vampires, so that staking them is a crime. A fun combination of the vampire and female PI genres that really works.<br />Several books in the series have been among the few books to which that the old cliche about &quot;not being able to put it down&quot; really applies. For me, Bloody Bones was not one of them. It is something of a transitional novel with two major plot lines that intersect only loosely. Anita's antagonists here are not as fully realized or even as scary as those she's faced in other novels. Yet, I don't want to overly criticize. Hamilton is a wonderful writer and there are some truly great scenes and lines here. &quot;Wounded master vampires get cranky as hell&quot;!! Or the scene in which Anita discovers the pitfalls of French kissing a master vampire.<br />In sum, recommended for fans of the series. It is an important transition in Anita's relationships with Richard and Jean-Claude. NOT the place newcomers should start. Go back to &quot;Guilty Pleasures,&quot; and get hooked first.	2000-11-23
US	52966758	R2HI85V3704OYI	0441001971	4008031	Circus of the Damned (Anita Blake, Vampire Hunter)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	I am totally addicted	This is the third novel in a wonderfully fresh take on a somewhat tired genre. Imagine a petite female Spencer (cf. Robert Parker) turned loose in a world in which vampires, zombies, were-creatures, and ghouls really exist. Hamilton's originality and creativity even prompted her to have the Supreme Court recognize the constitutional rights of vampires, so that staking them is a crime. As with the first two novels, Circus of the Damned was one of those few books to which that the old cliche about &quot;not being able to put it down&quot; really applies. I stayed up until 1 AM the first night and then woke at 7 am to finish it. A fun combination of the vampire and female PI genres that really works. Although the violence is a little over the top, it is still highly recommended.	2000-11-23
US	52966758	RXLD76MFFCU8E	0195098315	347956212	Paul Revere's Ride	Books	5	137	140	N	N	Splendid narrative history	David Hackett Fisher's Paul Revere's Ride (&quot;PRR&quot;) is a wonderful work of narrative history, with some splendid historiography tacked on at the end. Paul Revere's role in the events of April 18-19, 1775, has been contested by various critics. Descendants and partisans of William Dawes have claimed that his role was far more significant. Post-modernists have deconstructed Rever's ride as an exercise in national myth-making.<br />Fisher puts Revere back in the center of the events of April 1775. Of course, PRR is more than just an account of the ride. Fisher gives us a blend of biography and history--he opens with a short account of Revere's youth and then situates Revere in the Boston Whig movement that gave rise to the Revolution. The ride is then put into the context of the origins of the British expedition and the battle of Lexington and Concord.<br />One of the things I like best about PRR is Fisher's even-handness and basic fairness. Revere takes center stage, but Fisher does not overstate the case--he acknowledges that others played important roles (notably Dawes). Even as to Revere's silversmithing, Fisher acknowledges that Revere's work was not always perfect. General Gage and the other British protagonists are given fair--even sympathetic--treatment.<br />One particularly interesting contribution made by PRR is Fisher's treatment of the Lexington-Concord battle as a public relations issue. He explains how news spread through the colonies, how Congress got their version of events to London before Gage, how that account affected British public opinion. Given how important public opinion was in the course of the war, this is a very valuable treatment.<br />Lastly, but maybe not least, the book is superbly illustrated.<br />In sum, very highly recommended.	2000-11-23
US	52966758	R2P8RQNVGW11RH	0441004520	84311395	The Killing Dance (Anita Blake, Vampire Hunter)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	My favorite book in my favorite series	If you haven't discovered Laurell K. Hamilton yet--I envy you. because you have 9 great books ahead of you--the Anita Blake series. This is a wonderfully fresh take on a somewhat tired genre. Imagine a female Spencer (cf. Robert Parker) turned loose in a world in which vampires, zombies, were-creatures, and ghouls really exist. Hamilton's originality and creativity even prompted her to have the Supreme Court recognize the constitutional rights of vampires, so that staking them is a crime. A fun combination of the vampire and female PI genres that really works.<br />Killing Dance is the 6th novel in the series and my personal favorite. To be sure, it is darker and more violent than some of the earlier books. But some of my favorite characters (Jean Claude and Edward) play major roles. (I love Edward the amoral but honorable hit man who befriends Anita.) And some of my least favorite characters get wasted (no telling--no spoilers here!). Mostly, I love Anita. She is coming to grips with the fact that she is a stone cold killer and that she's not ok with that. The depth of characterization among Richard, Jean-Claude, and Anita thus continues to grow. (Even Edward becomes something of a fully realized character.)<br />I can't really tell you why I loved this book without giving away some major spoliers. So just take my word for it--go buy it. (BUT don't start here--if you haven't read any of the Anita Blake series yet--start at the beginning: &quot;Guilty Pleasures.)	2000-11-23
US	52966758	R2DF6BIGZ75U6V	0671577921	904025755	The War God's Own (War God (Weber))	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Fun, forthy fantasy	Having gotten to know David Weber through his military SF (see, esp., the excellent though interminable Honor Harrington series) I was surprised to discover his new fantasy series (does he ever write stand-alones?). Unlike the Honor Harrington series, which can be awful serious in places, War God's own is just plain fun. (There is with Heinlein's Glory Road--like Heinlein, Weber is a hard SF writer who turned to fantasy and demonstrated a light touch.) War God's Own is the second novel in the series and really can't be read on its own. You'll need to pick up a copy of Oath of Swords first. But OoS is as much fun as WGO, so that's no great hardship. My only complaint is that Weber does not have a very good ear for accents--his scottish accents especially get old. Having said that, WGO is still very highly recommended.	2000-11-23
US	52966758	ROT0L6VHT5Y3G	0812521390	825946760	The Black Company (Chronicles of The Black Company #1)	Books	5	10	14	N	N	In the beginning....	The Black Company is one of the great creations of modern fantasy. In a genre in which most stories are starkly black and white--really great good guys and really bad villans--the Black Company (contra its name) lives in grey. In a genre in which heroes are all-knowing and all-powerful, the Black Company is filled with fallible, vulnerable humans. Yet, they nevertheless are the baddest outfit around. Remember how we reworked Psalm 23 back in the '60s? &quot;Yea, though I walk through the Valley of the Shadow of Death, I shall fear no evil--for I am the baddest SOB in the valley!&quot; That could be the Black Company motto.<br />One of the things I like best about Cook's novels is that the story line is more important than the individual characters. There are no Gandalfs here--no all-powerful wizards (who never seem to do anything with their power) that are all-knowing and all-good. (The bad guys come closest and even they can be killed...eventually...if you try hard enough.) There is an over-riding sense of reality to the series: Characters screw up--just like in real life. Characters die--just like in real life. Good guys turn bad--just like in real life. Bad guys turn out to have socially redemming qualities--just like in real life.<br />Black Company is the first novel in the opening trilogy of what has become &quot;The Saga that Would not End.&quot; I am not a big fan of never-ending stories, but must admit that Cook does it better than most. In any case, the opening trilogy is pure joy--highly recommended. &quot;Black Company&quot; tells the story of how the Company came into the service of Lady, a sorceress of great power who rules a purportedly evil empire in the northern part of the Company's world. Should the Company serve evil? Do they have a choice?<br />One of the striking things about the Black Company is Cook's notion of honor. The Company's code of ethics is focused almost wholly inwardly. Honor vis-a-vis the outside world consists of keeping one's contracts. Otherwise, honor is focused on one's relationships within the Company. This is both the Company's greatest strength and also its greatest weakness. A critical element of the series is the Company's gradual coming to grips with the nonsustainability of its ethical structure.ntracts. Otherwise, honor is focused on one's relationships within the Company. This is both the Company's greatest strength and also its greatest weakness. A critical element of the series is the Company's gradual coming to grips with the nonsustainability of its ethical structure.	2000-10-01
US	52966758	R175F8AXBK9CVV	0812502205	867051463	The Silver Spike: The Chronicles of the Black Company	Books	5	21	22	N	N	Loose ends tied up	Silver Spike is the fourth book in a series on the the Black Company, a mercenary band in a sword and sorcery world. The Black Company is one of the great creations of modern fantasy. In a genre in which most stories are starkly black and white--really great good guys and really bad villans--the Black Company (contra its name) lives in grey. In a genre in which heroes are all-knowing and all-powerful, the Black Company is filled with fallible, vulnerable humans. Yet, they nevertheless are the baddest outfit around. Remember how we reworked Psalm 23 back in the '60s? &quot;Yea, though I walk through the Valley of the Shadow of Death, I shall fear no evil--for I am the baddest SOB in the valley!&quot; That could be the Black Company motto.<br />One of the things I like best about Cook's novels is that the story line is more important than the individual characters. There are no Gandalfs here--no powerful wizards (who never seem to do anything with their power) that are all-good and all-powerful. Characters die--just like in real life. Good guys turn bad--just like in real life. Bad guys turn out to have socially redemming qualities--just like in real life.<br />The first three novels told the story of how the Company came into the service of Lady, a sorceress of great power who rules a purportedly evil empire in the northern part of the Company's world. Eventually the Company rebels against the Lady and joins the White Rose, a reincarnated hero who opposes the empire. At the end of book three, the Rose, the Lady, and the Company join forces to defeat an older evil known as the Dominator. A long (nine-plus) series of sequels follows the subsequent adventures of the Company.<br />In contrast, the Black Company is off the stage in Silver Spike, which follows the subsequent adventures of the Rose. The initial trilogy introduced a number of characters and plot lines that were not resolved. Here, Cook wraps up many of those loose-ends. Fans of the series will definitely want to read Silver Spike. Those who have not yet discovered the Black Company should NOt start here--you'll never get it. But I envy those folks--they get to discover the Black Company for the first time. My advice: buy this book, but pick up the first 3 Black company novels and read them first.t to read Silver Spike. Those who have not yet discovered the Black Company should NOt start here--you'll never get it. But I envy those folks--they get to discover the Black Company for the first time. My advice: buy this book, but pick up the first 3 Black company novels and read them first.	2000-09-29
US	52966758	R2LP9E0TCN0BDE	068485628X	996959617	The Victors: Eisenhower and His Boys: The Men of World War II	Books	4	12	13	N	N	The one to read if you're reading only one	My 4 star rating of Victors is highly provisional, as this is one of those books for which a numerical rating system is inadequate. If you have not  read any of Stephen Ambrose's World War II books, this volume will be an  excellent read and will deserve 4 stars for reasons set out below. If you  have read any one of Ambrose's other World War II books, you will recognize  a lot of the material. If you have read two or more of Ambrose's World War  II books, you will feel quite ripped off.<br />As a historian of World war II,  Stephen Ambrose has two great accomplishments. First, there was his superb  biography of Eisenhower, based in large part on extensive interviews with  Ike. Second, there is the vast number of interviews he has conducted with  ordinary GIs. Those interviews were the basis of Citizen Soldiers, D Day,  and Band of Brothers.<br />Victors consists almost entirely of material  recycled from Ambrose's earlier works. Having read all of those books (I am  a big fan), nothing in Victors stuck out as new. Instead, this is at least  the fourth time I've heard the story of Easy Company. Having bought the  book in an airport bookstore (sorry Mr. Bezos), I spent the plane ride  getting madder and madder as I realized how redundant this book is. The  publisher really needs a less misleading cover. So if you've read two or  more of Ambrose's World War II books, don't waste your time or money.<br />If  you only want to read one Ambrose book, I would recommend Victors. Unlike  his Eisenhower biography, Victors gives you a real sense of what life was  like for GIs. Unlike Citizen Soldiers, you get a better sense of what  Eisenhower was like. Best of both worlds.<br />Some quibbles: First, if we  think of the Allied Armies in Europe as a large bureaucracy (as Ambrose  does in spots), Victors gives you a distorted picture. You get a lot of  information about Eisenhower and lot of information about GIs and junior  officers. But we learn almost nothing about the middle of the  bureaucracy--the generals and colonels. Imagine somebody who wrote a book  about General Motors that talked about the CEO and the factory workers, but  never said a peep about the middle management. Would that make  sense?<br />Second, the Eisenhower--Montgomery conflict gets less attention  than it deserves. In part this may be because Ambrose spends so little time  on Bradley and Patton, who also fought with Montgomery. But given that the  alliance almost fell apart because of the American commanders' conflicts  with Montgomery, it is a major omission.<br />Third, the important  contributions of the Russian Army to victory in Europe are ignored. You  could make a plausible case that any book called &quot;The Victors&quot;  ought to be subtitled Zhukov and his Boys. It would not denigrate the great  accomplishments of Eisenhower and the soldiers who served under him to  recognize that the Red Army both took and inflicted more casualties than  the U.S. army. indeed, Eisenhower himself reportedly said that D Day could  not have occured if the Russians hadn't tied down 5 million german troops.of the  bureaucracy--the generals and colonels. Imagine somebody who wrote a book  about General Motors that talked about the CEO and the factory workers, but  never said a peep about the middle management. Would that make  sense?<br />Second, the Eisenhower--Montgomery conflict gets less attention  than it deserves. In part this may be because Ambrose spends so little time  on Bradley and Patton, who also fought with Montgomery. But given that the  alliance almost fell apart because of the American commanders' conflicts  with Montgomery, it is a major omission.<br />Third, the important  contributions of the Russian Army to victory in Europe are ignored. You  could make a plausible case that any book called &quot;The Victors&quot;  ought to be subtitled Zhukov and his Boys. It would not denigrate the great  accomplishments of Eisenhower and the soldiers who served under him to  recognize that the Red Army both took and inflicted more casualties than  the U.S. army. indeed, Eisenhower himself reportedly said that D Day could  not have occured if the Russians hadn't tied down 5 million german troops.	2000-08-28
US	52966758	R9W9E2IMTSLXY	0898702216	218209798	Evangelical Is Not Enough: Worship of God in Liturgy and Sacrament	Books	5	128	133	N	N	Wonderful, profound, warn, and gracious.	As an evangelical deeply interested in and sympathetic to Catholicism, I  found Thomas Howard's &quot;Evangelical is not Enough&quot; to be one of  the most moving religious books I've read in years. Howard was born into an  evangelical family, moved into an Anglican communion as an adult, and  subsequent to the first publishing of &quot;Not Enough&quot; became a Roman  Catholic. This is NOT a Roman Catholic apologia. As noted, Howard's famous  (and, within evangelical circles, highly controversial) conversion  post-dates this book. Instead, is an apologia for all the apostolic  liturgical starins of Christianity (including the Anglican and Orthodox  traditions).<br />Although the story is obviously colored by Howard's faith  journey, this is not a biography or memoir. Instead, it is an exploration  of the liturgical tradition written by someone deeply sympathetic to the  evangelical tradition. Howard explores such controverted issues as Mary,  the authority of scripture and church teaching (sola scriptura),  justification (sola fide), and liturgy.<br />I believe (with Howard) that the  evangelical churches have gone too far in rejecting liturgy. A traditional  High Church service touches my soul far more deeply than the modern praise  worship so common in evangelical services. (I was recently in one of those  mega-churches where they serve Starbucks coffee and everybody takes their  latte into the pew. I'm glad there are churches like that for people who  prefer that style of worship, but its not for me.) The hard questions for  me are the touchstones of Reformation theology--sola scriptura and sola  fide. Does the apostolic tradition have authority or is only scripture  authoritative? Is salvation by faith alone or by faith and works? Howard  has struggled with these issues too and has given us a fair, balanced,  honest, and deeply scriptural set of answers. In sum, HIGHLY recommended.	2000-08-20
US	52966758	R1WJ4LH36PAVGV	0441033423	349459379	Athyra	Books	3	20	25	N	N	Was Brust looking for Reichenbacg Falls?	Authors of a successful series often tire of their Hero. Arthur Conan  Doyle ran Holmes off Reichenbach Falls in hopes of ending that series, only  to be dragged back kicking and screaming. Yet, as someone once said, Holmes  was never quite the same after he went over the falls. In Athyra, one gets  the sense that Steven Brust is looking for a Reichenbach Falls of his own  to throw Vlad off. (Ironically, much of the action takes place in caves on  a cliff above a river. Hmmm.)<br />For those who joined us late, Athyra is the  6th novel in a fantasy series revolving around Vlad Taltos. Vlad is a human  living in Dragaera, an empire of elves who live to 3,000+ years. Dragaeran  society is divided into 17 &quot;houses&quot; or clans. Vlad belongs to the  Jhereg, the house of thieves, assassins, and assorted other miscreants.  Vlad is one of the Jhereg's best assassins. The early books in the series  were exceptionally well-written light fantasy with a deft humorous touch,  if perhaps a touch formulaic. I would rate them 4-5 stars.<br />Unfortunately,  Athyra is not successful. Brust has said that Phoenix (the 5th novel) was  supposed to be Vlad's last appearance. Yet, Vlad's enduring popularity  seemingly prompted Brust to return to the Vlad-ian well. In Athyra, Brust  shifts narrarators. The first 5 were narrarated by Vlad, whose sardonic  humor was one of the books' best features. Athyra is narrarated by a  Dragaeran teenager (of 50 years), whose &quot;voice&quot; is nowhere near  as interesting as Vlad's. Worse yet, Athyra marks a far darker tone. The  deft humor of the earlier books is missing, while Brust seems to be working  through some &quot;issues&quot; of his own. The tone strives to be  philosophical, but manages only to be dense and depressing, yet sophomoric  at the same time.<br />I would recommend skipping Athyra, but the next book in  the series (Orca) is far superior. And the most recent book, Dragon, is  quite good. Fans of the series will slog through Athyra, but it is NOT  recommended as your first introduction to the series. You'll never read  another if you start here and that would be too bad--because by starting  out with the ringer in the bunch you'd miss out on a wonderful series.  Start with Jhereg and then work through the series either in publication  order (Jhereg&gt;Yendi&gt;Teckla&gt;Taltos&gt;Phoenix) or in  &quot;chronological&quot; order (which one of the other reviews lists).  (Actually, you could skip both Athyra and Orca. The most recent book,  Dragon, takes place earlier in Vlad's life.)h Athyra, but it is NOT  recommended as your first introduction to the series. You'll never read  another if you start here and that would be too bad--because by starting  out with the ringer in the bunch you'd miss out on a wonderful series.  Start with Jhereg and then work through the series either in publication  order (Jhereg&gt;Yendi&gt;Teckla&gt;Taltos&gt;Phoenix) or in  &quot;chronological&quot; order (which one of the other reviews lists).  (Actually, you could skip both Athyra and Orca. The most recent book,  Dragon, takes place earlier in Vlad's life.)	2000-08-20
US	52966758	R2PY3UTZTGHH8I	1573540749	63587444	The  Dog Lover's Companion to Boston	Books	5	7	7	N	N	5 Arfs!	When we arrived in the Boston Metro area with our golden retriever, this  was the first book we bought. It is a god-send! Immensely detailed and  highly accurate, it lists hundreds of places to take your dog in Boston,  the surrounding communities, the Cape, and even as far afield as New  Hamsphire. The book is divided into 12 geographic areas. In turn, each  broad region is sub-divided by town. Within each town, Downey and Lau first  list Parks, Beaches, and Recreation Areas. These are subjectively rated  from 1 to 4 paws. In our experience, one paw sites are only good for a  quick pitstop. Four paw sites, however, are routinely wonderful. Usefully,  a running dog symbol indicates off-leash parks. Directions, a map, and a  reasonably detailed description of the facilities follow. Downey and Lau  also list for each towndog-friendly restaurants, accomodations, festivals,  pet sitters, and the like. So far their advice has been dead  accurate--up-to-date and on the money. If you love dogs and live in the  Boston area, you need this book. Highly recommended.	2000-08-20
US	52966758	R1NDD98N80X29Q	0812533828	771517666	Shadow Games: The Fourth Chronicles of the Black Company: First Book of the South	Books	4	8	10	N	N	Very, very good...If not quite up to standards of first 3	The Black Company is one of the great creations of modern fantasy. In a  genre in which most stories are starkly black and white--really great good  guys and really bad villans--the Black Company (contra its name) lives in  grey.<br />Shadow Games is the fourth book in a series on the the Black  Company, a mercenary band in a sword and sorcery world. The first three  novels told the story of how the Company came into the service of Lady, a  sorceress of great power who rules a purportedly evil empire in the  northern part of the Company's world. Eventually the Company rebels against  the Lady and joins the White Rose, a reincarnated hero who opposes the  empire. At the end of book three, the Rose, the Lady, and the Company join  forces to defeat an older evil. A related book, Silver Spike, follows the  subsequent adventures of the Rose. In Shadow Games, Lady and the last  members of the Company travel south to the legendary city of Khatover from  which the Company originated many centuries before.<br />I enjoyed Shadow  Games and recommend it (although NOT as an initation to the series). But I  didn't quite like it as much as the first three novels. There is less  character development. Old villans get recycled for reasons that are not  entirely clear. A cliffhanger ending forces you to buy the sequel. Shadow  Games also marks the beginning of Cook's fascination with the quasi-Indian  philosophy and mythology that, in my judgment, detract from the later  books. If I had it to do over again, I probably would have stopped with the  first three novels.	2000-08-12
US	52966758	R3L8V4XDXU65LH	0441304834	453010069	Guilty Pleasures (Anita Blake Vampire Hunter)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Fresh, funny, scary	This is a wonderfully fresh take on a somewhat tired genre. Imagine a female Spencer (cf. Robert Parker) turned loose in a world in which vampires, zombies, were-creatures, and ghouls really exist. Hamilton's  originality and creativity even prompted her to have the Supreme Court  recognize the constitutional rights of vampires, so that staking them is a  crime. It was one of those few books to which that the old cliche about  &quot;not being able to put it down&quot; really applies. I stayed up until  2 am the first night and then woke at 8 am to finish it. A fun combination  of the vampire and female PI genres that really works. Although the  violence is a little over the top, it is still highly recommended.<br />N.B.:  One of the fun puzzles in the book is trying to figure out just what kind  of critter Anita is: She has super-human reflexes and prefers the dark. Is  she a vampire? Presumably not, because holy water doesn't burn her and she  can wear a crucifix. So what's up? Hamilton has the good sense to keep you  guessing.	2000-07-20
US	52966758	R1XAHS5DD4P8CM	0312868952	245512363	Into the Darkness (World at War, Book 1)	Books	2	2	4	N	N	Surprisingly disappointing.	I am a huge fan of alternate history and nobody does it better than Harry Turtledove. The World War series was great, the Colonization series quite good, and his Civil War series is outstanding. Unfortunately, Into the  Darkness stands as one of his lesser works. The premise is ok--a world war  fought in an alternate universe in which magic works. But the execution is  faulty. Indeed, if one did not know better, one might take DARKNESS as a  parody of Turtledove's style. Dozens of plot lines, hundreds of  characters--too many to keep track of and far too many to care about. Worse  yet, the plot line is totally derivative of the Second World War. Only the  names have been changed (to unpronouncable ones). The sex scenes are even  more embarassing than usual. As a result, this was the first Turtledove  book I decided not to finish--quit at about the 2/3 point, skipped ahead,  realized it was a series, and punted. In sum, not recommended. Harry ought  to wrap this series up quick and spend the resulting free time on the Civil  War series.	2000-06-28
US	52966758	R3S3FH14NVQWYB	0195123328	344735750	Handbook to Life in Ancient Rome	Books	5	66	66	N	N	Excellent reference	Anyone serious about Roman history ought to own this book. Be warned...it is not a narrative text. Don't expect to linger over it at a coffee shop. Instead, it is more in the nature of an encyclopedia. Organized  thematically, there are 9 chapters covering all aspects of Roman life: A  brief historical overview; military affairs; geography; town life; trade;  language; religion; economy; everyday life. Within each chapter one finds a  series of short essays, numerous very helpful illustrations and maps,  chronologies, and the like.  I have been reading a lot of Roman law lately,  as well as history of the early church, and have kept this handbook by my  side. It has answered almost every question my reading raised about Rome.  If it has any failing, it is that it covers only the historical period up  to the fall of the Western Empire. Information about the later Eastern  Empire is sparse, at best. Having said that, it is highly recommended.	2000-06-22
US	52966758	R2ZSLSDYSEZRVK	096489131X	352174571	Take Your Pet Too!: Fun Things to Do!	Books	2	14	14	N	N	Disappointing	I had great hopes for this book, as I'm always on the look out for fun places to take my dog. Anticipating a cross-country trip during Summer 2000, I ordered it to help plan that trip. Unfortunately, it did not prove  very useful. Although it covers the whole US, the information is typically  too sketchy to be of use. Hotel descriptions, for example, typically  consist of nothing more than name, address, and phone number.  At best,  there is a rudimentary indication of amenities using letter codes, although  many listings lack them. In some cases, the listing does not even include  an address or merely includes a PO Box. Based on the listings for Southern  California, the part of the country I know best, some of the information is  incomplete or inaccurate. In listing California dog parks (pp. 231-32), for  example, Walters omits two well-known Los Angeles parks. In sum, not  recommended.	2000-06-22
US	52966758	R16WG1ML2RMF90	0933603118	86799367	On the Road Again With Man's Best Friend: United States	Books	5	22	22	N	N	Superlative resource	In planning a cross-country trip with my dog (and wife too) for Summer 2000, this proved an invaluable resource. It lists thousands of pet-friendly places to stay in virtually every city and major town in all  50 states. Although the entries for each inn are very basic, they hit the  high points: address, phone, web site, pet policy, and basic amenities.  Places they have visited or for which they have received multiple reader  recommendations are starred. I also like the fact that they cover a wide  range of establishments, ranging from cottages to motels to  bed-and-breakfasts to top-of-the-line hotels. Its not really a travel guide  you'll need, because the information is too abbreviated, but it is a very  valuable reference tool. Highly recommended.	2000-06-22
US	52966758	R3FWANYOL33LCT	0945999801	138534926	Winners, Losers & Microsoft: Competition and Antitrust in High Technology (Independent Studies in Political Economy)	Books	5	14	19	N	N	Fascinating and accessible yet sophisticated economics	Leibowitz and Margolis tackle one of the central problems in modern antitrust economics: Can inferior products prevail in competition? If so, can the producer of such products achieve a monopoly? Standard neoclassical  economics denies that either outcome is possible. Economic evolution tends  to favor efficient equilibria, while inefficient local equilibria tend to  become extinct. Two fashionable economic theories have been advanced,  however, which claim that inferior products can not only prevail in  competition but also achieve monopolistic status.<br />Path dependence claims  that inefficient local equilibria can persist over time. Initial  conditions, which may be determined by chance or other non-economic forces  (such as political interests), direct the system down a particular path.  Subsequent deviations from that path may be precluded as too costly, even  if there are more desirable or efficient alternatives available. Where the  cost of reversing the initially chosen starting point or conditions is  especially high, an inefficient equilibrium may result that resists  correction by market forces.<br />Network externalities is the other key  element of the inferior product lock-in story. Some products become more  valuable as the number of persons using them increases. Each person who  adopts the product thus confers positive externalities on other users.  Personal computers (PCs) are a commonly cited example of this phenomenon.  The value of Microsoft's Windows operating system, for example, depends in  part on how many people use it and thus create markets for compatible  hardware and software. The more people who use Windows, the larger the  market for ancillary products becomes, thus encouraging the development of  more ancillary products of higher quality and lower price.<br />The claim made  on behalf of the combined effects of path dependence and network  externalities is that one cannot depend on markets to get it right.  Arbitrary initial starting conditions favor an inferior product. That  product generates network externalities. As the number of users of the  product rises, the size of those externalities increases, which gives the  inferior product a huge competitive advantage. Eventually the network  product achieves a &quot;lock in&quot; effect. At that point, path  dependence kicks in. It becomes too expensive to switch to a new product  even though that product is superior. Hence, the inferior product  prevails.<br />In WINNERS, Stan Leibowitz and Stephen Margolis popularize  their well-known (among economists) work debunking these fashionable  theories. An important theoretical contribution, albeit one which is likely  to be of interest only to economists and economically-minded lawyers, is  the distinction they draw between &quot;second-degree&quot; and  &quot;third-degree&quot; path dependence, which is driven by the  availability of a feasible alternative to the suboptimal equilibrium. Only  if such an alternative is available, does the phenomenon in question  demonstrate true path dependence. Only if such an alternative nevertheless  remains not taken, can the phenomenon in question even potentially be  deemed inefficient in either the Pareto superior or Kaldor-Hicks  sense.<br />Of greater interest to general readers will be WINNERS' debunking  of several urban legends about path dependence and lock-in. Several now  famous lock-in stories are reviewed, most notably the QWERTY keyboard and  the VHS videotape format. Leibowitz and Margolis thoroughly debunk both  stories. As for the supposed superiority of the Dvorak keyboard over the  prevailing QWERTY model, for example, they show that the studies on which  the claim of Dvorak's superiority was based were flawed. Drawing on  evidence from ergonomic studies, computer simulations, and training  experiments, they find that the Dvorak keyboard offers no significant  advantage over the QWERTY model. Hence, the QWERTY fable (as they call it)  does not even demonstrate second-degree path dependence, let alone the real  thing.<br />Of primary interest to the general reader, however, will be  Leibowitz and Margolis' extension of their argument to the antitrust case  against Microsoft. The success of Microsoft's Windows operating system over  alternatives such as Mac or OS/2 is frequently attributed to a network  externalities/lock in story. Assume for a moment that the lock in story is  true. It is not clear what the antitrust implications ought to be.  Antitrust historically was justified by concerns that monopolies are  harmful: they result in lower output and higher prices than competitive  markets. It is not at all clear that this is true of software markets. Even  if it were true, the positive externalities that result from the network  effect might well outweigh those costs. Hence, a monopoly created by  network effects arguably ought to be deemed a natural monopoly and, as  such, tolerated by the antitrust laws. (The use of a natural monopoly in  one market as leverage to monopolize a second one, as Microsoft is alleged  to have done, of course, cannot be so justified.)<br />If Leibowitz and  Margolis had limited their arguments to these points, the book would not  have been controversial. (It also wouldn't have sold as well or gotten the  attention it so richly deserves.) Instead, however, they try to debunk the  claim that Microsoft's products are inferior ones that prevail only because  of their network effects and path dependence. Here, I think they are on  weaker ground than in either the QWERTY or VHS examples. Their primary  empirical evidence on the quality of Microsoft products is software reviews  in leading computer magazines with respect to a comparative handful of  product markets. This is one plausible measure of quality, but surely it is  not the only one. (I have often wondered whether the volume of advertising  in those magazines effects their editorial content, for one thing.) Hence,  it seems to me, that they overstate the case when they assert their data  prove that Microsoft prevails in market competition because it makes high  quality products that it sells at low prices. Having said that, however,  this is an incredibly important and remarkably accessible introduction to  the key economic principles that underlie the software markets.t even demonstrate second-degree path dependence, let alone the real  thing.<br />Of primary interest to the general reader, however, will be  Leibowitz and Margolis' extension of their argument to the antitrust case  against Microsoft. The success of Microsoft's Windows operating system over  alternatives such as Mac or OS/2 is frequently attributed to a network  externalities/lock in story. Assume for a moment that the lock in story is  true. It is not clear what the antitrust implications ought to be.  Antitrust historically was justified by concerns that monopolies are  harmful: they result in lower output and higher prices than competitive  markets. It is not at all clear that this is true of software markets. Even  if it were true, the positive externalities that result from the network  effect might well outweigh those costs. Hence, a monopoly created by  network effects arguably ought to be deemed a natural monopoly and, as  such, tolerated by the antitrust laws. (The use of a natural monopoly in  one market as leverage to monopolize a second one, as Microsoft is alleged  to have done, of course, cannot be so justified.)<br />If Leibowitz and  Margolis had limited their arguments to these points, the book would not  have been controversial. (It also wouldn't have sold as well or gotten the  attention it so richly deserves.) Instead, however, they try to debunk the  claim that Microsoft's products are inferior ones that prevail only because  of their network effects and path dependence. Here, I think they are on  weaker ground than in either the QWERTY or VHS examples. Their primary  empirical evidence on the quality of Microsoft products is software reviews  in leading computer magazines with respect to a comparative handful of  product markets. This is one plausible measure of quality, but surely it is  not the only one. (I have often wondered whether the volume of advertising  in those magazines effects their editorial content, for one thing.) Hence,  it seems to me, that they overstate the case when they assert their data  prove that Microsoft prevails in market competition because it makes high  quality products that it sells at low prices. Having said that, however,  this is an incredibly important and remarkably accessible introduction to  the key economic principles that underlie the software markets.	2000-06-14
US	52966758	R1OLNIUPEXOUZ5	0691019347	569610049	The Winner's Curse: Paradoxes and Anomalies of Economic Life	Books	4	82	86	N	N	Useful introduction to a controversial field	As with any model claiming predictive power, economics rests on a theory of human behavior-specifically, rational choice theory, which posits decisionmakers who are autonomous individuals who make rational choices  that maximize their satisfactions. Critics of economics have long  complained that rational choice is, at best, an incomplete account of human  behavior. The traditional response to that criticism is that rationality is  simply an abstraction developed as a useful model of predicting the  behavior of large numbers of people and, as such, does not purport to  describe real people embedded in a real social order. A theory is properly  judged by its predictive power with respect to the phenomena it purports to  explain, not by whether it is a valid description of an objective reality.  Indeed, important and significant hypotheses often have assumptions that  are wildly inaccurate descriptive representations of reality. Accordingly,  the relevant question to ask about the assumptions of a theory is not  whether they are descriptively realistic, for they never are, but whether  they are sufficiently good approximations for the purpose in hand. Until  quite recently, empirical research tended to confirm that the rational  choice model of human behavior is a good first approximation of how large  numbers of people are likely to behave in exchange transactions.<br />Over  the last 10-15 years, however, a new school of economic analysis has  emerged that challenges the rational choice model precisely on its  predictive power. Empirical and laboratory work by cognitive psychologists  and experimental economists has identified a growing number of anomalies in  which behavior appears to systematically depart from that predicted by  rational choice. Some of the more important examples of these  decisionmaking biases include:  ** Herd behavior: Why do lemmings leap off  that cliff in Norway? What explains fads like Beanie Babies and Pok&eacute;mon?  Herd behavior occurs when a decisionmaker imitates the actions of others,  while ignoring his own information and judgment with regard to the merits  of the underlying decision. ** The status quo bias: All else being equal,  decisionmakers favor maintaining the status quo rather than switching to  some alternative state. The status quo bias can lead to market failure  where decisionmakers' preference for the status quo perpetuates suboptimal  practices.  The extent to which behavioral economics calls into question  more traditional modes of economic analysis remains sharply contested. At  the very least, however, it seems clear that attention must be paid to the  possibility that behavioral analysis sheds light on policy  issues.<br />Richard Thaler is one of the foremost behavioral economists. In  this (relatively) accessible introduction to this emerging literature, he  collects (and revises) a series of articles he wrote for the Journal of  Economic Perspectives. As such, there book reads more like an anthology  than a coherent whole. Yet, each of the chapters is highly instructive.  More important for the general reader, while the selections are all highly  rigorous, Thaler steers clear of the sort of recreational mathematics that  plagues so much of modern economics. Of particular interest to lay readers,  I suspect, will be the chapters on investing. Thaler offers a highly  insightful analysis of the various anomalies in capital market behavior  that appear to be inconsistent with the standard economic assumptions built  into the efficient capital markets hypothesis and the capital asset pricing  model. In sum, a useful introduction to the literature.n a decisionmaker imitates the actions of others,  while ignoring his own information and judgment with regard to the merits  of the underlying decision. ** The status quo bias: All else being equal,  decisionmakers favor maintaining the status quo rather than switching to  some alternative state. The status quo bias can lead to market failure  where decisionmakers' preference for the status quo perpetuates suboptimal  practices.  The extent to which behavioral economics calls into question  more traditional modes of economic analysis remains sharply contested. At  the very least, however, it seems clear that attention must be paid to the  possibility that behavioral analysis sheds light on policy  issues.<br />Richard Thaler is one of the foremost behavioral economists. In  this (relatively) accessible introduction to this emerging literature, he  collects (and revises) a series of articles he wrote for the Journal of  Economic Perspectives. As such, there book reads more like an anthology  than a coherent whole. Yet, each of the chapters is highly instructive.  More important for the general reader, while the selections are all highly  rigorous, Thaler steers clear of the sort of recreational mathematics that  plagues so much of modern economics. Of particular interest to lay readers,  I suspect, will be the chapters on investing. Thaler offers a highly  insightful analysis of the various anomalies in capital market behavior  that appear to be inconsistent with the standard economic assumptions built  into the efficient capital markets hypothesis and the capital asset pricing  model. In sum, a useful introduction to the literature.	2000-06-08
US	52966758	R1VUPXOR04NN84	0345416619	426738597	How Few Remain	Books	5	12	14	N	N	Turtledove's best	Harry Turtledove's first Civil War alternate history, GUNS OF THE SOUTH, was more fantasy than true AH. Its premise was a time machine that only  allowed one to go back in history exactly 150 years. A group of disgruntled  Afrikaners went back in time to equip Robert E. Lee's troops with AK-47s.  Yeah, right. In contrast, HOW FEW REMAIN is true AH-blessed with a far more  plausible premise. The prologue is set in 1862, setting out the back-story:  Lee's plans for the 1862 invasion of Pennsylvania do not fall into Union  hands. As such, Lee is able to fight a campaign of maneuver that culminates  in a major victory at New Cumberland, Pa. After which, Britain and France  intervene, forcing the Union to grudgingly accept a negotiated peace.<br />The  main story picks up in 1881. In the peace settlement, the Confederacy  picked up not only their core states but also Kentucky and the Indian  Territory (Oklahoma). Yet, the CSA lacks access to the Pacific. To solve  that problem, CSA President Longstreet has negotiated a purchase of  Chihuahua and Sonora from the Empire of Mexico. The USA, which is spoiling  for a rematch, decides to treat that purchase as a casus belli. HOW FEW  REMAIN is the story of the war that follows-the Second War Between the  States. (My American History teacher back home in Virginia would have  called it the Second War of Northern Aggression.) As usual with Turtledove,  there are a vast number of sub-plots to keep track of, but the book is  replete with nice touches that strike me as plausible: **The CSA had  absorbed Cuba, a longstanding goal of the southern states before the Civil  War. **An embittered Abraham Lincoln still leads the radical wing of the  Republican Party, but has begun flirting with socialism. **President  Longstreet-after the Civil War Longstreet became active in Republican  politics (of all things). the idea that he would become the CSA's president  is thus plausible, as is his pragmatic views of race. **Longstreet decides  the CSA must free its slaves so as to ensure British and French support. In  the real civil war, popular abolitionist sentiment was a major factor in  those power's failure to intervene (especially true of Britain). **Teddy  Roosevelt raises a volunteer regiment to fight the Anglo-Canadians. Just as  he raised the Rough Riders in the Spanish-American war. **The immigrant  industrial proletariat of a more embittered and economically impoverished  USA prove more receptive to socialism than did US workers in our time-line.  **German military attache Alfred von Schlieffen sees in Lee's 1862 campaign  the model for what becomes Imperial Germany's Schlieffen plan for the  invasion of France...a sweeping hook around your main target to cut it off  and defeat the foe's army in the field. (Norman Schwartzkopf used the same  strategy in the Gulf war.)<br />If there are flaws with this book, they are  few: (1) One sub-plot focuses on Sam Clemens as a San Francisco newspaper  editor. This proves a slightly hackneyed plot contrivance designed to let  Turtledove give us the big picture. Yet, the absence of such a big picture  plot line is one of the major flaws of the subsequent GREAT WAR tetralogy.  (2) I wish Turtledove would stop writing sex scenes-Turtledove is not a  great writer in general, but his sex scenes are especially awful.  Yuck!<br />In sum, very highly recommended. HOW FEW REMAIN is not a sequel to  GUNS OF THE SOUTH-they take place in different universes. Instead, it is a  prequel to the GREAT WAR tetralogy. It also is superior to both: tighter  written, more tautly paced, with better characterizations.e CSA must free its slaves so as to ensure British and French support. In  the real civil war, popular abolitionist sentiment was a major factor in  those power's failure to intervene (especially true of Britain). **Teddy  Roosevelt raises a volunteer regiment to fight the Anglo-Canadians. Just as  he raised the Rough Riders in the Spanish-American war. **The immigrant  industrial proletariat of a more embittered and economically impoverished  USA prove more receptive to socialism than did US workers in our time-line.  **German military attache Alfred von Schlieffen sees in Lee's 1862 campaign  the model for what becomes Imperial Germany's Schlieffen plan for the  invasion of France...a sweeping hook around your main target to cut it off  and defeat the foe's army in the field. (Norman Schwartzkopf used the same  strategy in the Gulf war.)<br />If there are flaws with this book, they are  few: (1) One sub-plot focuses on Sam Clemens as a San Francisco newspaper  editor. This proves a slightly hackneyed plot contrivance designed to let  Turtledove give us the big picture. Yet, the absence of such a big picture  plot line is one of the major flaws of the subsequent GREAT WAR tetralogy.  (2) I wish Turtledove would stop writing sex scenes-Turtledove is not a  great writer in general, but his sex scenes are especially awful.  Yuck!<br />In sum, very highly recommended. HOW FEW REMAIN is not a sequel to  GUNS OF THE SOUTH-they take place in different universes. Instead, it is a  prequel to the GREAT WAR tetralogy. It also is superior to both: tighter  written, more tautly paced, with better characterizations.	2000-06-05
US	52966758	R2765UCVZ5SIIN	0345405617	264906896	Walk In Hell (The Great War, Book 2)	Books	4	14	16	N	N	Turtledove's best series keeps rolling along	Although Harry Turtledove is probably best known for his World War series, the Civil War series that began with HOW FEW REMAIN is doubtless his greatest work. The back-story for this series is a plausible world in which  Lee's plans for the 1862 invasion of Pennsylvania did not fall into Union  hands. After battles at New Cumberland and Camp Hill in which Lee crushed  the Army of the Potomac, leaving Washington cut off, England and France  intervene--forcing the North to sue for peace. In HOW FEW REMAIN, the story  picked up in 1881 when the North declared war on the Confederacy following  the latter's purchase of Chihuahua and Sonora from the Empire of Mexico.  Following another British and French intervention, the Confederacy was  again victorious. The Union is left embittered and hungry for revenge. At  the end of HOW FEW REMAIN, Turtledove foreshadowed the GREAT WAR tetralogy  with clear hints of an emerging alliance between the Union and Imperial  Germany. In AMERICAN FRONT, the story picked up in 1914. World War I has  broken out in Europe. The Union and Imperial Germany are staunch allies,  while the Confederacy remains allied with England and France. In short  order, the Union and the Confederacy plunge into a war paralleling that in  Europe. The war doesn't make a lot of sense. In World War I, all of the  European players had clear war aims. The war turned out to be a tragic  folly, but they all knew why they went to war. In contrast, it's not clear  why the Union and Confederacy are fighting (old animosities?) or what their  respective war aims are. Does the USA believe it can conquer and reabsorb  the Confederacy? Perhaps this is Turtledove's point-the utter folly of war.  If so, his story powerfully illustrates the utility of George Washington's  advice that the US steer clear of \\"entangling alliances\\" with European  powers. As made even more clear in WALK IN HELL, privation and radical  social change are the war's only sure outcome.<br />As usual with Turtledove,  there are a lot of sub-plots to keep track of--at least a dozen! Crib notes  are almost a necessity. Besides being hard to keep track of, some of the  plot lines are duplicative. Consider the McGregor and Galtier sub-plots.  Both are based around oppressed Canadian families living in territories  occupied by US forces. (Even though Germany's experience in two world wars  demonstrates that two-front wars are a bad idea, the Union happily jumped  into one with the Confederacy to the south and Anglo-Canada to the north.)  The chief difference between the two is that they illustrate distinct  reactions to occupation...resistance by the McGregors and (slower to be  unveiled) a slow fall into collaboration by the Galtiers. From a dramatic  perspective, Turtledove would have done better to combine these separate  plot lines into a single one, in which the conflict could have been  established within a single family, heightening the tension.<br />One of the  nice points in WALK IN HELL is the way Turtledove captures the complexity  of life in war and the moral ambiguities was forces upon us. Consider, for  example, the interesting Cincinnatus plot line-a black southerner in Union  occupied Kentucky finds himself caught between self-preservation, working a  day job for the Union, entanglement with a pro-Confederacy resistance  movement, and the black socialist underground. Cincinnatus must sail  between Scylla and Charybdis with no room for error. Although  characterization generally is not one of Turtledove's strengths, the  Cincinnatus sub-plot is an excellent treatment of the hard choices such a  war would have forced upon ordinary people. (On the other hand, Cincinnatus  has the misfortune of being subjected to one of Turtledove's embarrassing  sex scenes.)<br />One thing worries me: In the Jake Featherston subplot  Turtledove is doing some pretty blatant foreshadowing. Featherston is a  front line Confederate soldier with increasingly strong racist attitudestowards blacks. So here's a prediction as to where Turtledove is going:  after two more books in THE GREAT WAR series, the south will lose the war.  Economic privation and social breakdown will follow. (Think Weimar  Germany.) Then a former front line soldier will rise to power as a racist  demagogic leader. Featherston will be the Confederacy's Hitler and the  blacks will be the south's Jews. And we'll be buying yet another  tetralogy-this time dealing with WWII.<br />Although I still think HOW FEW  REMAIN is superior to the the GREAT WAR tetralogy (to date), the latter  still is highly recommended.towards blacks. So here's a prediction as to where Turtledove is going:  after two more books in THE GREAT WAR series, the south will lose the war.  Economic privation and social breakdown will follow. (Think Weimar  Germany.) Then a former front line soldier will rise to power as a racist  demagogic leader. Featherston will be the Confederacy's Hitler and the  blacks will be the south's Jews. And we'll be buying yet another  tetralogy-this time dealing with WWII.<br />Although I still think HOW FEW  REMAIN is superior to the the GREAT WAR tetralogy (to date), the latter  still is highly recommended.	2000-06-03
US	52966758	R13MQ5H25SGSUF	034540615X	412492536	American Front (The Great War, Book 1)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Turtledove's best series, although not his best book	Harry Turtledove is a recognized master of alternative history. Although he is probably best known for his World War series, the Civil War series that began with HOW FEW REMAIN is doubtless his greatest work. The  back-story for this series is a plausible world in which Lee's plans for  the 1862 invasion of Pennsylvania did not fall into Union hands. After  battles at New Cumberland and Camp Hill in which Lee crushed the Army of  the Potomac, leaving Washington cut off, England and France  intervene--forcing the North to sue for peace. In HOW FEW REMAIN, the story  picked up in 1881 when the North declared war on the Confederacy following  the latter's purchase of Chihuahua and Sonora from the Empire of Mexico.  (In a nice touch, Turtledove has Maximillian's empire survive. This strikes  me as plausible--without a powerful US to put pressure on France, the  empire might well have survived.) Following another British and French  intervention, the Confederacy is again victorious. The Union is left  embittered and hungry for revenge. At the end, Turtledove foreshadows his  later work with an emerging alliance between the Union and Imperial  Germany. (In another nice touch, Turtledove has Abraham Lincoln lead the  radical wing of the Republican Party out of the GOP into a merger with the  socialists.) In THE GREAT WAR: AMERICAN FRONT, the story picks up in 1914.  World War I has broken out in Europe. The Union and Imperial Germany are  staunch allies, while the Confederacy remains allied with England and  France. In scenes reminiscent of Barbara Tuchman's THE GUNS OF AUGUST, the  Union and the Confederacy plunge into a war paralleling that in Europe. The  war doesn't make a lot of sense. In World War I, all of the European  players had clear war aims. The war turned out to be a tragic folly, but  they all knew why they went to war. In contrast, it's not clear why the  Union and Confederacy are fighting (old animosities?) or what their  respective war aims are. Does theUSA believe it can conquer and reabsorb  the Confederacy?<br />As usual with Turtledove, there are a lot of sub-plots  to keep track of--at least a dozen! Crib notes are almost a necessity.  Besides being hard to keep track of, some of the plot lines are  duplicative. Consider the McGregor and Galtier sub-plots. Both are based  around oppressed Canadian families living in territories occupied by US  forces. (Even though Germany's experience in two world wars demonstrates  that two-front wars are a bad idea, the Union happily jumped into one with  the Confederacy to the south and Anglo-Canada to the north.) The chief  difference between the two is that they illustrate distinct reactions to  occupation...resistance by the McGregors and (slower to be unveiled) a slow  fall into collaboration by the Galtiers. From a dramatic perspective,  Turtledove would have done better to combine these separate plot lines into  a single one, in which the conflict could have been established within a  single family, heightening the tension<br />As with some other reviewers, I  was sorry that so few of the characters from HOW FEW REMAIN carried over to  AMERICAN FRONT. Only Custer carries over in full force. (Custer, by the  way, is one of Turtledove's best creations--I find is Sir Douglas Haig-like  character entirely plausible from what I know of Custer's  personality.)<br />Like some other reviewers, I also wish Turtledove had  included a sub-plot that gives us the big picture. He could have kept Teddy  Roosevelt in the plot and give us the big picture by means of Presidential  briefings.<br />Although I rate AMERICAN FRONT a notch below HOW FEW REMAIN,  it is highly recommended.	2000-06-03
US	52966758	RJSRZ6OJYB36Y	0393047814	223246019	A Random Walk Down Wall Street	Books	5	49	59	N	N	The most important book on stock markets ever written	In RANDOM WALK DOWN WALL STREET, Burton Malkiel sets out the basics of modern corporate financial theory in a way accessible to the law reader. As a teacher of corporate finance to law students, I have recommended this  book to my students for over 10 years. Numerous alumni have told me that  was the best advise they got in law school (a sad commentary on American  legal education, but that's another story).<br />Two basic theories are  expounded here. First, modern portfolio theory (MPT), which elucidates the  relationship between risk and diversification. Because investors are risk  averse, they must be paid for bearing risk, which is done through a higher  expected rate of return. As such, we speak of a risk premium: the  difference in the rate of return paid on a risky investment and the rate of  return on a risk-free investment. In the real world, we measure the risk  premium associated with a particular investment by subtracting the  short-term Treasury bill interest rate from the risky investment's rate of  return. The risk premium, however, will only reflect certain risks. MPT  differentiates between two types of risk: unsystematic and systematic.  Unsystematic risk might be regarded as firm-specific risk: The risk that  the CEO will have a heart attack; the risk that the firm's workers will go  out on strike; the risk that the plant will burn down. These are all  firm-specific risks. Systematic risk might be regarded as market risk:  risks that affect all firms to one degree or another: changes in market  interest rates; election results; recessions; and so forth. MPT  acknowledges that risk and return are related: investors will demand a  higher rate of return from riskier investments. In other words, a  corporation issuing junk bonds must pay a higher rate of return than a  company issuing investment grade bonds. Yet, portfolio theory claims that  issuers of securities need not compensate investors for unsystematic risk.  In other words, investors will not demand a risk premium to reflect  firm-specific risks. Why? There is a mathematical proof, which relates to  variance and standard deviation, but Malkiel explains it in a way that is  quite intuitive. Investors can eliminate unsystematic risk by diversifying  their portfolio. Diversification eliminates unsystematic risk, because  things tend to come out in the wash. One firm's plant burns down, but  another hit oil. Thus, even though the actual rate of return earned on a  particular investment is likely to diverge from the expected return, the  actual return on a well-diversified portfolio is less likely to diverge  from the expected return. Bottom line? If you hold a nondiversified  portfolio (say all Internet stocks), you are bearing risks for which the  market will not compensate you. You may do well for a while, but it will  eventually catch up to you (as it has recently for tech stocks).<br />The  second pillar of Malkiel's analysis is the efficient capital markets theory  (ECMH). The fundamental thesis of the ECMH is that, in an efficient market,  current prices always and fully reflect all relevant information about the  commodities being traded. In other words, in an efficient market,  commodities are never overpriced or underpriced: the current price will be  an accurate reflection of the market's consensus as to the commodity's  value. Of course, there is no real world condition like this, but the  securities markets are widely believed to be close to this ideal. There are  three forms of ECMH, each of which has relevance for investors: **Weak  form: All information concerning historical prices is fully reflected in  the current price. Price changes in securities are serially independent or  random. What do I mean by &quot;random&quot;?  Suppose the company makes a  major oil find.  Do I mean that we can't predict whether the stock will go  up or down? No:  obviously stock prices generally go up on good news and  down on bad news. What randomness means is that investors can not profit by  using past prices to predict future prices. If the Weak Form of the  hypothesis is true, technical analysis (a/k/a charting)-the attempt to  predict future prices by looking at the past history of stock prices-can  not be a profitable trading strategy over time. And, indeed, empirical  studies have demonstrated that securities prices do move randomly and,  moreover, have shown that charting is not a long-term profitable trading  strategy. ** Semi-Strong Form: Current prices incorporate not only all  historical information but also all current public information. As such,  investors can not expect to profit from studying available information  because the market will have already incorporated the information  accurately into the price. As Malkiel demonstrates, this version of the  ECMH also has been well established by empirical studies. Implication: if  you spend time and effort studying stocks and companies, you are wasting  your time. If you pay somebody to do it for you, you are wasting your  money. ** Strong Form holds that prices incorporate all information,  publicly available or not. This version must be (and is) false, or insider  trading would be profitable.<br />In the last section of RANDOM WALK, Malkiel  distills all this theory into an eminently practical life-cycle guide to  investing. As one may infer, it has two basic principles. First,  diversification. Second, no one systematically earns positive abnormal  returns from trading in securities; in other words, over time nobody  outperforms the market. Mutual funds may outperform the market in 1 year,  but they may falter in another. Once adjustment is made for risks, every  reputable empirical study finds that mutual funds generally don't  outperform the market over time. Malkiel's recommendation: put your money  into no-load passively managed index mutual funds. You will see lots of  anonymous reviews of RANDOM WALK claiming Malkiel is wrong. Odds are, most  of those folks are have either been misled by the long bull market or, even  more likely, are brokers or other market professionals who make a living  selling active portfolio management. In sum, buy it, read it, believe it,  and practice it.s that investors can not profit by  using past prices to predict future prices. If the Weak Form of the  hypothesis is true, technical analysis (a/k/a charting)-the attempt to  predict future prices by looking at the past history of stock prices-can  not be a profitable trading strategy over time. And, indeed, empirical  studies have demonstrated that securities prices do move randomly and,  moreover, have shown that charting is not a long-term profitable trading  strategy. ** Semi-Strong Form: Current prices incorporate not only all  historical information but also all current public information. As such,  investors can not expect to profit from studying available information  because the market will have already incorporated the information  accurately into the price. As Malkiel demonstrates, this version of the  ECMH also has been well established by empirical studies. Implication: if  you spend time and effort studying stocks and companies, you are wasting  your time. If you pay somebody to do it for you, you are wasting your  money. ** Strong Form holds that prices incorporate all information,  publicly available or not. This version must be (and is) false, or insider  trading would be profitable.<br />In the last section of RANDOM WALK, Malkiel  distills all this theory into an eminently practical life-cycle guide to  investing. As one may infer, it has two basic principles. First,  diversification. Second, no one systematically earns positive abnormal  returns from trading in securities; in other words, over time nobody  outperforms the market. Mutual funds may outperform the market in 1 year,  but they may falter in another. Once adjustment is made for risks, every  reputable empirical study finds that mutual funds generally don't  outperform the market over time. Malkiel's recommendation: put your money  into no-load passively managed index mutual funds. You will see lots of  anonymous reviews of RANDOM WALK claiming Malkiel is wrong. Odds are, most  of those folks are have either been misled by the long bull market or, even  more likely, are brokers or other market professionals who make a living  selling active portfolio management. In sum, buy it, read it, believe it,  and practice it.	2000-06-02
US	52966758	RCXUOO86WEGWW	0674604814	87896452	The Nature of the Common Law	Books	5	11	11	N	N	An underappreciated modern classic--Highly recommended	In his ambitiously titled book, &quot;The Nature of the Common Law,&quot; Professor Melvin Eisenberg's stated goal &quot;is to develop the institutional principles that govern the way in which the common law is  established in our society.&quot;  In doing so, Eisenberg addresses the  functions of courts in American society, modes of legal reasoning and the  process of overturning prior precedents. Yet Eisenberg never loses sight of  his central thesis, namely that &quot;all common law cases are decided  under a unified methodology, and under this methodology social propositions  always figure in determining the rules the courts establish and the way in  which those rules are extended, restricted, and applied.&quot;  To say  that courts should and do rely on social propositions (such as moral norms  and public policy) in deciding common law cases is hardly new. Eisenberg's  contribution comes in mapping a coherent course between the Scylla and  Charybdis of modern jurisprudence. He explicitly rejects theories claiming  that some cases can be decided without reference to social propositions. On  the other hand, Eisenberg also rejects theories claiming that legal  reasoning is nothing more than a mask for the social and political values  of the decisionmaker. Any complex society needs an institution before which  claims based on existing societal standards can be heard. In our society,  that institution is the courts.  &quot;If the courts resolved disputes by  reasoning from those moral norms and policies they think best, there would  be no institution to which a member of the society could go to vindicate a  claim of right based on existing standards.&quot;  Second, since the  judicial system is a peculiarly undemocratic institution, the legitimacy of  the adjudicative process requires courts to look to &quot;existing legal  and social standards rather than those standards the court thinks  best.&quot;  Finally, prohibiting the courts from employing their personal  standards makes legal reasoning fairer and more easily replicable by the  profession.<br />Common law adjudication thus is not merely the ad hoc  application of whatever social propositions a particular judge is taken by;  rather, he lays out institutional principles that constrain and guide the  adjudicative use of social propositions. According to Eisenberg,  adjudicators may only employ those norms or policies that &quot;can fairly  be said to have substantial support in the community, can be derived from  norms [or policies] that have such support, or appear as if they would have  such support.&quot;  Two critical assumptions underlie this claim: (1) that  social morality is a meaningful concept;  and (2) that judges are capable  of discerning and effectively applying social morality. As space does not  permit one to do full justice to Eisenberg's defense of those assumptions,  suffice it to say that the argument is well-crafted and  even-handed.<br />Eisenberg's second claim is that courts have a duty to  utilize only those social propositions that have the requisite degree of  social support. &quot;By accepting and retaining office the judge  undertakes an ongoing commitment to carry out the rules of the  office,&quot; one of which is &quot;a moral obligation to faithfully employ  the norms of social morality ... whether or not he privately agrees with  those norms.&quot;  One may be skeptical about the force of an oath of  office in constraining judicial discretion, but this is not the only arrow  in Eisenberg's quiver. A variety of corrective forces come into play when a  judge strays from those social propositions having the requisite degree of  support. From the aggrieved litigant's perspective, the best outcome will  be a reversal on appeal. Even if the decision stands, however, it may  nevertheless soon be consigned to the dust bin of legal history. Lawyers  will make a decent living arguing that the rule should be overturned or  distinguished in future cases. Commentators and other courts may point out  the decision's flawed reasoning. In extreme cases, the legislature may step  in.  In sum, common law decisions do not live in a vacuum. The wider arena  of legal discourse acts a significant check on judicial error, whether the  &quot;error&quot; is deliberate or accidental.<br />At first glance,  Eisenberg's thesis appears to create substantial problems of doctrinal  stability. He is unwilling, however, to make doctrinal propositions  entirely defeasible in the face of changing social propositions.  Accordingly, he constrains the use of social propositions by giving some  counter-balancing weight to the value of doctrinal stability. In areas  where parties are unlikely to plan their behavior based on existing  doctrines, doctrinal stability may be relatively unimportant and a court  should be fairly liberal in bringing out of whack doctrines back into line.  But in areas such as property and estates, where planning is common and  reliance on doctrinal stability is likely, courts should be more reticent.  In these latter areas, techniques such as signaling (in which the court  suggests that it will revisit the issue later) or prospective overturning  may be more appropriate than an immediate reversal of existing doctrine.<br />For readers persuaded by Eisenberg, or at least interested in seeing his  ideas play out, the book's only major flaw is likely to be its length: It  is too short. For example, I would have been interested in Eisenberg's view  of the claim that efficiency is the sole acceptable and/or the prevailing  norm in common law adjudication.  Perhaps the most glaring omission,  however, is Eisenberg's failure to discuss in more detail the relationship  of statutory interpretation to common law adjudication. Nonetheless, it  belongs in every common lawyer's library.ases. Commentators and other courts may point out  the decision's flawed reasoning. In extreme cases, the legislature may step  in.  In sum, common law decisions do not live in a vacuum. The wider arena  of legal discourse acts a significant check on judicial error, whether the  &quot;error&quot; is deliberate or accidental. <br />At first glance,  Eisenberg's thesis appears to create substantial problems of doctrinal  stability. He is unwilling, however, to make doctrinal propositions  entirely defeasible in the face of changing social propositions.  Accordingly, he constrains the use of social propositions by giving some  counter-balancing weight to the value of doctrinal stability. In areas  where parties are unlikely to plan their behavior based on existing  doctrines, doctrinal stability may be relatively unimportant and a court  should be fairly liberal in bringing out of whack doctrines back into line.  But in areas such as property and estates, where planning is common and  reliance on doctrinal stability is likely, courts should be more reticent.  In these latter areas, techniques such as signaling (in which the court  suggests that it will revisit the issue later) or prospective overturning  may be more appropriate than an immediate reversal of existing doctrine.  <br />For readers persuaded by Eisenberg, or at least interested in seeing his  ideas play out, the book's only major flaw is likely to be its length: It  is too short. For example, I would have been interested in Eisenberg's view  of the claim that efficiency is the sole acceptable and/or the prevailing  norm in common law adjudication.  Perhaps the most glaring omission,  however, is Eisenberg's failure to discuss in more detail the relationship  of statutory interpretation to common law adjudication. Nonetheless, it  belongs in every common lawyer's library.	2000-06-02
US	52966758	R6GV64LKYKDXS	0882777998	692919857	Legal Capital (Univ Textbook Series)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Highly recommended for corporate lawyers and law students	LEGAL CAPITAL only does one thing--dividends and related legal capital rules--but does it better than anybody. Lots of problems and examples make an often obscure and puzzling area of the law readily understandable. Very  highly recommended.	2000-06-02
US	52966758	R1TWN7PY4POFFM	0882774050	245040032	Corporations in Perspective	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Valuable now mostly to historians	Now badly out-of-date in terms of legal doctrine, CORPORATIONS IN PERSPECTIVE is still well worth reading for its idiosyncratic perspective on corporate law by one of the major scholars of the mid-20th century.  Detailed references make it particularly useful as a tool for legal  historians.	2000-06-02
US	52966758	R2A1VTMSSFNGM2	0671541730	31978101	Dyson Sphere (Star Trek: The Next Generation, No. 50)	Books	1	1	3	N	N	Way below par for the series.	There was more hard science SF here than is typical of Star Trek novels, and the authors clearly know their science. BUT: They are not very good writers, the characters are cardboard cut-outs, the plot is thin, the  philosophy is weak, and the ending is trite. Not recommended except for the  collector who has to have every ST novel.	2000-06-02
US	52966758	R2V1WKLOKIVYUQ	0316225428	870916800	Structure of the Corporation: A Legal Analysis	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Dated but still valuable	STRUCTURE OF THE CORPORATION is a classic of the traditional school of corporate law scholarship. It provided the blueprint for early drafts of the ALI Principles of Corporate Governance and was especially influential  on California law. Doctrinally dated, but still worth reading by students  of corporate law. It will be of particular utility to those trying to  understand the evolution of corporate law during the turbulent 1970s.	2000-06-02
US	52966758	RSU9XDYIM3TS3	0820524999	33637078	Understanding Securities Law (Casebook Skills Series)	Books	5	16	17	N	N	Highly recommended	Securities Regulation is one of the hardest courses in law school, not least because it requires close reading of highly technical statutes. Unfortunately, there are relatively few well-done guides to securities law.  Steinberg's text is one of the best--if not the best. He combines detailed  textual review of major concepts with extensive references to both primary  and secondary sources. As such, practicing securities lawyers will also  find it a useful source of precedents.	2000-06-02
US	52966758	R3TR62JZKCLHTW	0813323630	884344797	Progressive Corporate Law (New Perspectives on Law, Culture, and Society)	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Eclectic collection of left-ish/communtarian perspectives	To the uninitiated, the idea of corporate law academic scholarship doubtless sounds dry and boring. Yet, for those of us who labor in that vineyard, the scene is often reminiscent of Jutland or  Trafalgar--broadsides thundering among ships passing in the night. Over the  last couple of decades, a group of scholars working in the so-called  &quot;law and economics&quot; tradition have mounted a largely successful  hostile takeover of the corporate legal academy. Although both  traditionalists and leftists fought separate rear-guard actions against the  law and economics juggernaut for many years, the principal resistance is  now being offered by a group of (no longer quite so) young academics  loosely centered around the corporate law faculties of the Washington &amp;  Lee and George Washington law schools. George Washington University law  professor Larry Mitchell brought together 10 of the most prominent of these  scholars in a collection of essays that, taken together, provides a useful  introduction to the genre.<br />Reviewing a collection of essays is never  easy, but it is especially complicated here by the diversity amongst  PROGRESSIVE CORPORATE LAW's authors. In a very real sense, those scholars  are far more firmly united by what they oppose--Chicago School-style law  and economics--than by what they support. Nonetheless, at least some of the  authors are groping towards a common set of ideas, albeit one perhaps more  accurately characterized as &quot;left communitarian&quot; than as  &quot;progressive&quot; in the traditional sense of the latter term.<br />The  left communitarian view of corporate law and governance posits that  relationships within the corporation are not arms-length market  relationships, but rather are based on trust and mutual interdependence. As  the story goes, this requires corporate decisionmakers to be sensitive to  the needs of all of a corporation's constituencies: Fair dealing requires  that intra-corporate relationships not be unilaterally abrogated to benefit  shareholders. In the interest of brevity, I focus on a single variant of  this argument, which we might term &quot;stakeholderism.&quot; There has  been a longstanding debate over the notion that corporations ought to be  run so as to maximize shareholder profits. The corporate law communitarians  typically stand in the tradition claiming that corporations should be  responsive to the interests of various nonshareholder  constituencies--workers, consumers, and communities--not just those of  shareholders. (Note the parallels with the emphasis on stakeholders in Tony  Blair's version of the so-called Third Way.&quot;) Law and economics  scholars, in contrast, contend that nonshareholder constituencies are  adequately protected through contract and general welfare legislation and,  accordingly, corporate law should not provide them with extra-contractual  protections.<br />Space does not permit one to do full justice to the  arguments on either side. Interestingly, however, the stakeholderist  traditions of both Germany and Japan are under attack. In Germany, the  combined pressure of high production costs and international competition  have encouraged large German firms to shift production abroad and led to  growing political pressure to deregulate German labor laws. Similarly, some  large Japanese firms appear to be shifting their focus to shareholder  wealth maximization.<br />At bottom, however, stakeholderism ought to be  rejected because it is inconsistent with economic liberty. To be sure, one  cannot charge left communitarians with precisely the same statist faults  associated with old-time collectivists. Instead of nationalization, the  communitarians advocate regulation designed to protect nonshareholder  constituencies and, in particular, to encourage their participation in  corporate governance. But this is a difference only in degree, not in kind.  The left communitarian seeks to empower state-sponsored constituency groups  (such as labor unions or environmentalists) to exercise some as yet  ill-defined degree over control corporate decisions.<br />As a societal  decisionmaking norm, the economic freedom to pursue wealth does more than  just expand the economic pie. A legal system that pursues wealth  maximization necessarily must allow individuals freedom to pursue the  accumulation of wealth. Economic liberty, in turn, is a necessary  concomitant of personal liberty-the two have almost always marched hand in  hand. The pursuit of wealth has been a major factor in destroying arbitrary  class distinctions, moreover, by enhancing personal and social mobility. At  the same time, the manifest failure of socialist systems to deliver  reasonable standards of living has undermined their viability as an  alternative to democratic capitalist societies in which wealth maximization  is a paramount societal goal. Accordingly, it seems fair to argue that the  economic liberty to pursue wealth is an effective means for achieving a  variety of moral ends.<br />In turn, the modern public corporation has turned  out to be a powerful engine for focusing the efforts of individuals to  maintain the requisite sphere of economic liberty. Those whose livelihood  depends on corporate enterprise cannot be neutral about political systems.  Only democratic capitalist societies permit voluntary formation of private  corporations and provide a sphere of economic liberty within which they may  function, which gives those who value such enterprises a powerful incentive  to resist both statism and socialism. Because tyranny is far more likely to  come from the public sector than the private, those who for selfish reasons  strive to maintain both a democratic capitalist society and, of particular  relevance to the present argument, a substantial sphere of economic liberty  therein serve the public interest.<br />Although all the essays are worth  reading, I would venture to single out for special attention David Millon's  introductory overview for its even-handed treatment of the contending  perspectives, William Bratton's provocative essay on the role of honor in  the duty of loyalty, Eric Ort's careful critique of multinational  corporations, and Marleen O'Connor's thoughtful analysis of employee rights  in plant closings.oups  (such as labor unions or environmentalists) to exercise some as yet  ill-defined degree over control corporate decisions.<br />As a societal  decisionmaking norm, the economic freedom to pursue wealth does more than  just expand the economic pie. A legal system that pursues wealth  maximization necessarily must allow individuals freedom to pursue the  accumulation of wealth. Economic liberty, in turn, is a necessary  concomitant of personal liberty-the two have almost always marched hand in  hand. The pursuit of wealth has been a major factor in destroying arbitrary  class distinctions, moreover, by enhancing personal and social mobility. At  the same time, the manifest failure of socialist systems to deliver  reasonable standards of living has undermined their viability as an  alternative to democratic capitalist societies in which wealth maximization  is a paramount societal goal. Accordingly, it seems fair to argue that the  economic liberty to pursue wealth is an effective means for achieving a  variety of moral ends. <br />In turn, the modern public corporation has turned  out to be a powerful engine for focusing the efforts of individuals to  maintain the requisite sphere of economic liberty. Those whose livelihood  depends on corporate enterprise cannot be neutral about political systems.  Only democratic capitalist societies permit voluntary formation of private  corporations and provide a sphere of economic liberty within which they may  function, which gives those who value such enterprises a powerful incentive  to resist both statism and socialism. Because tyranny is far more likely to  come from the public sector than the private, those who for selfish reasons  strive to maintain both a democratic capitalist society and, of particular  relevance to the present argument, a substantial sphere of economic liberty  therein serve the public interest.<br />Although all the essays are worth  reading, I would venture to single out for special attention David Millon's  introductory overview for its even-handed treatment of the contending  perspectives, William Bratton's provocative essay on the role of honor in  the duty of loyalty, Eric Ort's careful critique of multinational  corporations, and Marleen O'Connor's thoughtful analysis of employee rights  in plant closings.	2000-06-02
US	52966758	R3LYGLG8KV1HE0	0671876422	938991157	Oath of Swords	Books	4	5	6	N	N	Fun and frothy.	Those of us who got to know David Weber through his military SF (see, esp., the excellent though interminable Honor Harrington series) likely will be surprised to discover his new fantasy series (does he ever write  stand-alones?). Unlike the Honor Harrington series, which can be awful  serious in places, Oath of Swords is just plain fun. (There is an analogy  some have noted with Heinlein's Glory Road. Like Heinlein, Weber is a hard  SF writer who turned to fantasy and demonstrated a light touch.) As with  others, my major complaint is that Weber does not have a very good ear for  accents. I agree with those who said his scotch accents especially get old.  Having said that, it is still very highly recommended.	2000-06-02
US	52966758	R31I332VJAWR2K	1567065287	251863544	Business Basics for Law Students: Essential Terms and Concepts (Essentials for Law Students)	Books	4	17	18	N	N	Useful for lawyers who need to learn about business	BUSINESS BASICS is a very comprehensive overview of business issues designed for law students and lawyers. Students taking a basic course in corporations or business associations will find it useful, especially if  they lack a business background. It covers not only corporate law, but also  such broader topics as insurance, retirement planning, real estate  purchases, and the like. Relatively little traditional doctrinal analysis;  more an explanation of how business works. Don't think of it as a study aid  for your corporations class-think of it as a one volume equivalent of an  undergraduate business administration program. On that basis, I highly  recommend it.	2000-06-02
US	52966758	R1CDFELAFCJVSL	9994550969	65708140	Principles of Corporate Governance: Analysis and Recommendations	Books	3	4	4	N	N	Corporate lawyers need it in their library, but be wary	PRINCIPLES OF CORPORATE GOVERNANCE is decidedly not a restatement of what corporate law is, but rather a statement of what the drafters think the law ought to be. Worse yet, that statement ended up being badly mangled by  political compromises. The Reporters' Notes, however, can be useful  research tools.<br />The American law Institute (ALI) is a nongovernmental  nonpartisan group of legal academics, prominent practitioners, and judges  best known for its justly famous Restatements of the law. The ALI prides  itself on being, in the words of its President, &quot;analytical and  impartial.&quot;  In fact, however, the process by which the PRINCIPLES  took shape most closely resembled the rough-and-tumble politics of a state  legislature.<br />Why were the PRINCIPLES so controversial? Perhaps in part  because the PRINCIPLES's early drafts marked a sharp break from existing  law, although that has been true of other far less controversial ALI  projects. Perhaps in part because the PRINCIPLES dealt with a business law  topic in which large sums are at stake, although that has also been true in  the past. Perhaps in part because an identifiable interest group's ox was  being gored, although that too has been the case in prior projects. One  telling difference is that this was the first ALI project to directly  threaten corporate managers' personal finances. Unlike commercial law  topics, which generally affect corporate managers' welfare only indirectly,  PRINCIPLES squarely addressed their exposure to personal liability. Worse  yet, the early drafts' substantive provisions threatened to increase the  scope of liability, while the procedural provisions were expressly intended  to make it easier for shareholder litigation to reach the merits of  management's conduct. Accordingly, corporate managers constituted a defined  group that was ready and willing to oppose the PRINCIPLES, with no opposing  group capable of resisting in an organized fashion. There seems no doubt  that business opposition to the PRINCIPLES affected the deliberations.  Prior to the ALI's 1992 annual meeting, for example, then-President Perkins  wrote that it was &quot;critical that our final deliberations not be  subject to the charge of a skewed representation, weighted toward any  particular interest group.&quot;  That he felt it necessary to further warn  the membership not to vote unless they had &quot;the stomach for voting in  a way that an important client might not like&quot; strongly suggests that  at least some members did not leave their clients' interests at the  door.<br />If this is the correct explanation for the controversy engendered  by the PRINCIPLES, ALI business in the future will probably go back to  normal. Any future work commercial and business law topics will necessarily  produce winners and losers. Interested parties undoubtedly will bring  influence to bear so as to avoid being in the latter category, but the  depth of feelings generated by the corporate governance PRINCIPLES is  unlikely to be matched.<br />What then is the future of the PRINCIPLES itself?  One result of the controversy over the PRINCIPLES was that the project's  recommendations typically moved away from the radical changes in law  proposed by early drafts towards existing corporate law standards.  Ironically, this evolution may cause the PRINCIPLES to lose influence.  Instead of moving the law in a given direction, much of the PRINCIPLES will  now serve as merely a glorified treatise with the ALI's imprimatur. At the  same time, however, those provisions that still represent a significant  departure from existing standards, are unlikely to have a significant  impact on the law's development.hat business opposition to the PRINCIPLES affected the deliberations.  Prior to the ALI's 1992 annual meeting, for example, then-President Perkins  wrote that it was &quot;critical that our final deliberations not be  subject to the charge of a skewed representation, weighted toward any  particular interest group.&quot;  That he felt it necessary to further warn  the membership not to vote unless they had &quot;the stomach for voting in  a way that an important client might not like&quot; strongly suggests that  at least some members did not leave their clients' interests at the  door.<br />If this is the correct explanation for the controversy engendered  by the PRINCIPLES, ALI business in the future will probably go back to  normal. Any future work commercial and business law topics will necessarily  produce winners and losers. Interested parties undoubtedly will bring  influence to bear so as to avoid being in the latter category, but the  depth of feelings generated by the corporate governance PRINCIPLES is  unlikely to be matched.<br />What then is the future of the PRINCIPLES itself?  One result of the controversy over the PRINCIPLES was that the project's  recommendations typically moved away from the radical changes in law  proposed by early drafts towards existing corporate law standards.  Ironically, this evolution may cause the PRINCIPLES to lose influence.  Instead of moving the law in a given direction, much of the PRINCIPLES will  now serve as merely a glorified treatise with the ALI's imprimatur. At the  same time, however, those provisions that still represent a significant  departure from existing standards, are unlikely to have a significant  impact on the law's development.	2000-06-02
US	52966758	R21L8MC6ZNS5SN	068482762X	272819922	HEROIC ENTERPRISE: Business and the Common Good	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Common sense on a subject that usually lacks it.	Since even before Milton Friedman famously contended that the social responsibility of business is to maximize profits, there has been a vigorous debate between those who believe corporations should put purported  notions of socially responsible behavior ahead of profits and those of who  are skeptical that doing so leads to desirable results. One of the chief  tenets of the Friedman-esque position is that responsible corporate  behavior is profit maximizing. That is, the private interests of the  corporation and the public interest are typically congruent.<br />In this  excellent analysis, John Hood convincingly demonstrates that compassion and  capitalism are not inconsistent, but go hand in hand. Hood combines  statistical evidence with telling anecdotes drawn from a plethora of  industries to show that profit maximizing firms consistently also advance  the common good. Indeed, by the end of Hood's text, one is ineluctably lead  to the conclusion that for profit corporations have done far more good than  government or nonprofits. Highly recommended.	2000-06-01
US	52966758	R9JNG76RC46MW	0691036837	734637426	Strong Managers, Weak Owners	Books	4	19	19	N	N	A provocative look at US corporate governance.	In their 1932 classic, THE MODERN CORPORATION AND PRIVATE PROPERTY, Berle and Means brought to popular attention the separation of ownership and control in U.S. corporations: shareholders exercised virtually no control  over either day to day operations or long-term policy; instead, control was  vested in the hands of professional managers. Separation of ownership and  control occurred, according to Berle and Means, because important  technological changes during the 1800s, especially the development of  modern mass production techniques, gave great advantages to firms large  enough to achieve economics of scale, which in turn gave rise to giant  industrial corporations. These firms could be financed only by aggregating  many small investments. Modern corporate governance scholars refer to the  consequences of separating ownership and control as agency costs, but Berle  and Means had identified the basic problem over forty years before the  current terminology was invented: &quot;The separation of ownership from  control produces a condition where the interests of owner and of ultimate  manager may, and often do, diverge ....&quot;<br />In STRONG MANAGERS, WEAK  OWNERS, Mark Roe strikes out in a new direction, by attacking the origins  of the agency cost problem. The question Roe poses is the foundational one  of whether Berle and Means were correct in assuming that the separation of  ownership and control is an inherent aspect of large public corporations.  Roe contends that dispersed ownership was not the inevitable consequence of  impersonal economic forces, but rather the result of a series of political  decisions motivated by a fear of concentrated economic power. Investments  could have been channeled to industrial enterprises through large financial  intermediaries, such as banks, insurance companies, and mutual and pension  funds. Put another way, while it was necessary to aggregate and tap the  savings of large numbers of individual investors in order to fund major  industrial corporations, such aggregation could have taken place in  financial institutions specifically designed to provide savings  opportunities.  In turn, it would have been those institutions that  invested in industrial corporations. American corporate governance did not  evolve along these lines because the law created a series of obstacles to  financial intermediaries. If those obstacles had not existed, ownership  might not have fragmented and thus might not have separated from control.  The implication of this thesis, of course, is that while economic forces  shaped modern corporate governance, they did so within the parameters set  by law. As such, the governance structure of U.S. public corporations may  not be optimal in an absolute sense, but only relative to the set of  possibilities defined by our legal system.<br />Roe focuses on legal rules  preventing institutional investors from acting as financial intermediaries  between the investing public and the management of public corporations. The  first third of STRONG MANAGERS is devoted to a historical review of the  rules that preclude institutions from playing a significant role in  corporate governance. In the second third, he reviews recent developments,  which perpetuated the legal obstacles to governance activism by  institutions. In the final part, he addresses the essential policy  implication of his analysis: should the legal system encourage institutions  to take a more active governance role?<br />One can quibble with portions of  Roe's historical argument. There is, for example, good evidence that  ownership and control separated long before most of the rules Roe blames  for the separation went on the books. At the very latest, ownership and  control of large corporations had separated by the middle of the nineteenth  century. In contrast, the rules with which Roe is concerned mostly came  into existence only after 1900. Granted, banks fragmented in the first  third of the 18th century, but a number of critical restrictions did not  come into play until the New Deal. Insurers were largely unregulated until  after 1906. Mutual funds, albeit long of little importance,  likewise were  essentially unregulated until the New Deal. Given this free market  environment, why did these or other financial intermediaries not step into  the economic niche opened when ownership and control separated during in  the early and mid-1800s?<br />In other words, Roe has not proven that the  Berle-Means corporation would not have evolved in the absence of the  constraints on financial intermediaries he describes.  But, at a minimum,  Roe does demonstrate that politics did nothing to impede the development of  the Berle-Means corporation, perhaps facilitated its evolution, and  certainly helped sustain it by preventing financial intermediaries from  taking active governance roles.  In and of itself, that showing is a  formidable accomplishment and a valuable contribution to the  literature.<br />Although the first two sections of STRONG MANAGERS are  notable in their own right, the book takes on importance mainly because of  the significance of the policy questions to which the final section is  addressed. Space does not permit one to do full justice to Roe's argument,  which is nuanced and well-crafted. Suffice it to say that relatively little  has changed since STRONG MANAGERS was published. Despite increased activism  in recent years, institutions still are mostly passive. Even the most  active institutional investors spend only trifling amounts on corporate  governance activism. Institutions devote little effort to monitoring  management, rarely conduct proxy solicitations, do not to try to elect  directors, and rarely coordinate their activities. And, perhaps, this is a  good thing. As Roe concedes, there is good evidence that bank-dominated  finance has harmed that Japanese and German economies by impeding venture  capital. Moreover, institutional investors may well abuse control by  self-dealing. Even if institutional investors are entirely self-less,  greater control on their part would still be undesirable if the separation  of ownership and control mandated by U.S. law has substantial efficiency  benefits. Here is where Roe and I part company-I suspect the Berle-Means  corporation has significant economic advantages over its alternatives; he  is skeptical. Perhaps only time will tell, as competition in increasingly  global markets puts various systems of economic organization to the test.  In the meanwhile, Roe's book belongs in the library of anyone interested in  corporate law or governance.entury, but a number of critical restrictions did not  come into play until the New Deal. Insurers were largely unregulated until  after 1906. Mutual funds, albeit long of little importance,  likewise were  essentially unregulated until the New Deal. Given this free market  environment, why did these or other financial intermediaries not step into  the economic niche opened when ownership and control separated during in  the early and mid-1800s?<br />In other words, Roe has not proven that the  Berle-Means corporation would not have evolved in the absence of the  constraints on financial intermediaries he describes.  But, at a minimum,  Roe does demonstrate that politics did nothing to impede the development of  the Berle-Means corporation, perhaps facilitated its evolution, and  certainly helped sustain it by preventing financial intermediaries from  taking active governance roles.  In and of itself, that showing is a  formidable accomplishment and a valuable contribution to the  literature.<br />Although the first two sections of STRONG MANAGERS are  notable in their own right, the book takes on importance mainly because of  the significance of the policy questions to which the final section is  addressed. Space does not permit one to do full justice to Roe's argument,  which is nuanced and well-crafted. Suffice it to say that relatively little  has changed since STRONG MANAGERS was published. Despite increased activism  in recent years, institutions still are mostly passive. Even the most  active institutional investors spend only trifling amounts on corporate  governance activism. Institutions devote little effort to monitoring  management, rarely conduct proxy solicitations, do not to try to elect  directors, and rarely coordinate their activities. And, perhaps, this is a  good thing. As Roe concedes, there is good evidence that bank-dominated  finance has harmed that Japanese and German economies by impeding venture  capital. Moreover, institutional investorsmay well abuse control by  self-dealing. Even if institutional investors are entirely self-less,  greater control on their part would still be undesirable if the separation  of ownership and control mandated by U.S. law has substantial efficiency  benefits. Here is where Roe and I part company-I suspect the Berle-Means  corporation has significant economic advantages over its alternatives; he  is skeptical. Perhaps only time will tell, as competition in increasingly  global markets puts various systems of economic organization to the test.  In the meanwhile, Roe's book belongs in the library of anyone interested in  corporate law or governance.	2000-06-01
US	52966758	R2Y9T64GZFXZOA	0688128378	54406210	Bargaining Games: A new approach to strategic thinking in negotiations	Books	5	3	3	N	N	A highly accessible introduction to game theory.	Much of life consists of strategic interactions between two or more individuals. In many cases, each individual's choices will be constrained by what that individual expects others to do. Game theory provides formal  models of strategic interactions that simplify social settings by stripping  out irrelevant details. As such, the stories game theorists tell often seem  highly unrealistic. Yet, a theory is properly judged by its predictive  power with respect to the phenomena it purports to explain, however, not by  whether it is a valid description of an objective reality.  As Milton  Friedman put it, &quot;the relevant question to ask about the assumptions  of a theory is not whether they are descriptively realistic, for they never  are, but whether they are sufficiently good approximations for the purpose  in hand.&quot; The claim of game theorists is that simple models allow us  to make powerful predictions about behavior.<br />In &quot;Bargaining  Games,&quot; management professor Keith Murnighan wrote what is still the  most accessible introduction to game theory. (Unfortunately, much of the  game theory literature is almost totally inaccessible to the  non-specialist--it is dominated by the sort of formal modelling some of us  refer to as &quot;recreational mathematics.&quot;) The academic will find  much that is useful here, but so will anybody who wants to be a better  negotiator. Indeed, single most the striking thing about this text is its  combination of academic rigor and everyday practicality.<br />To take but a  single example, consider Murnighan's treatment of prominent solutions to  indeterminate games. Suppose you were going to sell a used car. The seller  wants to end up with at least $10,000 for the car. The canny seller knows  that people are instinctively attracted to prominent solutions, such as  round numbers. The canny seller therefore sets a price of $10,650,  anticipating that the prospective buyer's first offer probably will be  $10,000--because that is the nearest (lower) prominent round number. They  will then end up somewhere in the middle, but the seller was assured of  making at least $10,000 on the sale. The book is full of little gems like  this one.<br />In sum, highly recommended.cause that is the nearest (lower) prominent round number. They  will then end up somewhere in the middle, but the seller was assured of  making at least $10,000 on the sale. The book is full of little gems like  this one.<br />In sum, highly recommended.	2000-06-01
US	52966758	R2C4R6TSAT7LHT	1883792118	97877885	52 Weeks in the California Garden	Books	5	48	51	N	N	Excellent.	If you live in Los Angeles, you need this book. Smaus is the garden writer for the excretal Los Angeles Times and one of its sole redeeming virtues. Smaus covers a range of topics, including plantings suggested for our area and timing of various tasks. Unlike most gardening books, which are written  for East Coast or Mid-West audiences, and which are generally unhelpful for  our unique climate, Smaus' advice has proven consistently accurate. The  book's sole flaw is the lack of an index. Because the articles are short  and there is a detailed table of contents, this is not a major problem.  Highly recommended.	1999-07-12
US	52966758	R2PJ0R26O01M7X	0921820909	428044351	Tottering In My Garden: A Gardener's Memoir	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Delightful, but tails off at the end.	A slight but enjoyable memoir of a Toronto country gardener. The beginning is heavy going as she takes us on a tour of her first 5 houses, and it tails off a bit at the end. But it is a diverting couple of evening's read  nonetheless.	1999-06-14
US	52966758	R36XQSM8K4S725	1569710732	924898298	Dark Empire (Star Wars)	Books	1	1	6	N	N	Wash-out	The writing is stilted and juvenile. A single example should suffice: &quot;I can feel the Force moving through me . . . Guiding my hands in the terrible tasks of war.&quot; Please. My 10-year old niece can write a  better sentence. In order to pack the maximum amount of plot into the  minimum amout of artwork, about half the sentences are synopses. The color  selection is limited and mostly washed out. In sum, only for those who must  own everything.	1999-06-03
US	52966758	R2XFXBW8WTCHTH	1569711194	264838380	Dark Empire II (Star Wars)	Books	1	7	12	N	N	Stinks. Really stinks. No, seriously, it really stinks.	(1) The writing stinks. Example: &quot;This evil one is trying to kill me! But I am a greater master of the Force than he.&quot; Really. That's what it says. Seriously. Example 2 : &quot;More Jedi. But they are only  women.&quot; To which Leia responds, &quot;Vardna Mojaya! You've hurt  Luke.&quot; Did he not know that? (2) The plot stinks. DEI brought back the  emperor from the dead and armed him with the usual superweapon. DEII  (surprise!) brings back the emperor from the dead and arms him with a  superweapon. Excuse me? Didn't we just see that in the last episode? Can  you spare an original idea? (3) The artwork stinks. None of the characters  look like the actors. Each frame has only 1 or 2 colors, which are either  garish or washed out. (4) Why is almost everything green? In sum, don't  waste your money.	1999-06-03
US	52966758	R2K8EFR0PNFQFG	0671541730	31978101	Dyson Sphere (Star Trek: The Next Generation, No. 50)	Books	1	2	4	N	N	Childish.	More hard science than we're used to in Star Trek novels, which is fine. And these guys seem to know their science. BUT. The book is poorly written, the characters are cardboard cut-outs, the plot is thin, the philosophy is  weak, and the ending is trite.	1999-05-19
US	52966758	RNUS0RQ3ZAZS4	0671720651	275804899	The Regiment	Books	1	4	24	N	N	Horrendously bad.	This may be the worst book I've ever read. If not, it is darn close. The writing is childish; the philosophy is half-baked; the premise is silly. Millenia ago a group of humans fled their planets of origin to escape a  war. While travelling through space, they discovered that their own  pacifist people were breaking down into factions. (Duh. Read Madison's  essay on faction in the Federalist papers.) So they decided to brainwash  everybody so as to avoid competition and research and so on. The idea was  to prevent the development of military technologies of mass destruction.  (Why not brainwash everybody to be pacifists? Because then there would be  no story.) One group refused to accept the brainwashing, so they got left  off on a pit of a planet. That group becomes soldiers. But they also  develop the ability to travel back in time telepathically and discover the  roots of humanity. They then become the seeds of a conspiracy to undo the  brainwashing. Along the way, the soldiers develop some hairbrained  philosophy that looks to be a bad imitation of Maslow's theories of  self-actualization. I got far enough into the book to get the gist of it,  skipped ahead to the end, and tossed it.	1999-02-04
US	52966758	R3BL15YYZ8Y44B	0671876422	938991157	Oath of Swords	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Fun froth.	This is fun fantasy, somewhat reminiscent in tone to Heinlein's Glory Road. Like Heinlein, Weber is a SF writer who turns to fantasy with a light touch. A useful antidote to the Jordans of the fantasy world. My major  complaint is the phony scotch accents. Weber does not have a very good ear  for accents and muddling through the dialogue gets old. (He had the same  problem with Scotch accents in Crusade. What is it with this guy and that  accent?)	1999-01-12
US	52966758	R3ADCOEX5L2YBI	0671877240	500386767	The Chosen (The Raj Whitehall Series, Book 6)	Books	3	10	15	N	N	Choppy.	Not up to standards of the Raj series. Lots of vignettes, loosely tied together. I suspect they wanted to do another multi-volume series, but the publisher was only willing to do a single book--so they crammed everything  into that volume. I also suspect this started out as a separate series,  which the publisher told them to connect to Raj for sales purposes. It is  only loosely tied to the Raj series and only by an implausible plot device.  Neither Raj nor Center are central to the working out of the plot. Readers  looking for a contination of the Raj stories will be disappointed. Readers  looking for decent military SF will be modestly satisfied.	1998-12-16
US	52966758	RYY673GQBHAZS	034540615X	412492536	American Front (The Great War, Book 1)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Well worth reading, but room for improvement.	I found &quot;How Few Remain&quot; Turtledove's best book: &quot;Guns of the South&quot; and &quot;WorldWar&quot; were both too contrived. In contrast, this series has a far more plausible premise. This book creates a fascinating world in which the South struggles with race relations, the North with industrial relations, and the United States has been drawn into precisely those entangling alliances against which George Washington warned, with precisely the consequences (and even worse ones) that GW predicted. As usual with Turtledove, the plot is rich and engrossing.<br />The troubles with this book are few, but I hope he addresses them in the sequels:  (1) As usual with Turtledove, there are too many sub-plots to keep track of. (2) On the other hand, I had invested a lot in the characters from &quot;How Few Remain.&quot; Yet, how few of them remain! Few of them show up here. In particular, Teddy Roosevelt is missing in action. What happened to Lincoln (obviously dead, but where is his legacy?) and his children? What happened to Ben Butler and the other Republican leaders? How about Stonewall? Bring these guys--or their kids--back! (3) The war makes no sense. We have no idea of the war aims of the USA or CSA. The Great War may have been utter folly, but all the combatants had clear war aims. France's was the recovery of Alsace-Lorraine and national honor; Germany's was hegemonic and imperialistic; Russia's was control of the Balkans and the Dardanelles; etc... Why are the USA and CSA fighting? Surely the answer can't be that they just got dragged into the war by their allies? What do they hope to accomplish? Does the USA believe it can achieve reunification by force? What does the CSA hope to do? Turtledove doesn't tell us. The war also makes no strategic sense. Trench warfare dominated WWI because the parties were fighting over a relatively short front. With no room to maneuver, the power of artillery, mortars, machine guns, and barbed wire made trench warfare essential. In turn, the vast conscript ar! mies of the major powers provided enough manpower to man the trenches. But where manpower was limited and there was room to maneuver, trench warefare didn't happen. The East African and Arabian campaigns are good examples of this phenomenon. The USA and CSA have a much larger front to defend, with considerable open spaces. There is no reason for them to get bogged down in trench warfare--or at least not as quickly as takes place in the book. They had room to maneuver and should have done so. I also don't understand the USA's strategy, in particular. Two-front wars are not a good idea. But the USA is committed to fighting one. And why is the USA bogged down in trench warfare on the northeastern front? The way to beat the CSA is obvious: control the Mississippi. A combined amphibious and foot campaign along the West bank of the Mississippi, perhaps coupled with an amphibious strike at New Orleans. Cut the CSA in half. Strike overland at Atlanta, just as Sherman did. Virginia then falls of starvation. War won. Why aren't they trying this? (4) No big picture. I wish Turtledove would scrap one or two of the sub-plots and create one that gives us the big picture. He did this in &quot;How Few Remain&quot; with Sam Clemens' new stories. It was an obvious and slightly hackneyed plot contrivance, but it worked. Here he could easily bring Teddy Roosevelt into the plot and give us the big picture by means of Presidential briefings.<br />Anyway, despite the problems, I vastly enjoyed this book and eagerly await sequels.ntial. In turn, the vast conscript ar! mies of the major powers provided enough manpower to man the trenches. But where manpower was limited and there was room to maneuver, trench warefare didn't happen. The East African and Arabian campaigns are good examples of this phenomenon. The USA and CSA have a much larger front to defend, with considerable open spaces. There is no reason for them to get bogged down in trench warfare--or at least not as quickly as takes place in the book. They had room to maneuver and should have done so. I also don't understand the USA's strategy, in particular. Two-front wars are not a good idea. But the USA is committed to fighting one. And why is the USA bogged down in trench warfare on the northeastern front? The way to beat the CSA is obvious: control the Mississippi. A combined amphibious and foot campaign along the West bank of the Mississippi, perhaps coupled with an amphibious strike at New Orleans. Cut the CSA in half. Strike overland at Atlanta, just as Sherman did. Virginia then falls of starvation. War won. Why aren't they trying this? (4) No big picture. I wish Turtledove would scrap one or two of the sub-plots and create one that gives us the big picture. He did this in &quot;How Few Remain&quot; with Sam Clemens' new stories. It was an obvious and slightly hackneyed plot contrivance, but it worked. Here he could easily bring Teddy Roosevelt into the plot and give us the big picture by means of Presidential briefings.<br />Anyway, despite the problems, I vastly enjoyed this book and eagerly await sequels.	1998-06-29
US	52966758	R3TUJBCEYC47MA	0060174846	221792060	In Praise of Tomatoes: A Year in the Life of a Home Tomato Grower	Books	1	4	12	N	N	Gardening tips from the PC thought police.	I was fully prepared to enjoy this book.  I love travel and gardening memoirs and am an avid tomato (and rose) grower.  But after reading three chapters, I tossed it.  The author turns out to be a left-liberal who liberally (pun intended) sprinkles his text with snide and insulting remarks about Republicans.  Note to the author: Conservatives garden too.	1998-05-21
US	52966758	R3AN0PXUS8T7V4	0896225488	758498358	Proclaiming Justice and Peace: Papal Documents from Reuum Novarum Through Centesimus Annus	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Useful.	A useful compilation of the major papal encyclicals making up Catholic social teaching.  Some moderately useful commentary, but the encyclicals themselves are the reason to buy this book.	1997-12-29
US	52966758	R3QRH2W2LOMN9B	0674641698	203928158	Order without Law: How Neighbors Settle Disputes	Books	5	25	26	N	N	Best of genre.	Legal scholars tend to assume that law matters; i.e., that people seek to comport their behavior with applicable rules of law.  In what is probably the best sociological study of the role of law in dispute resolution, Robert Ellickson demonstrates that disputes are often resolved without recourse to law and, even more important, in ways different than they would have been resolved in court.<br /> Ellickson begins with a richly detailed case study:  Boundary and cattle trespass disputes in Shasta County, California.  After reviewing the Shasta County experience, Ellickson relates his findings to a theoretical framework grounded in economics and psychology.  The book thus combines the best of both theoretical and empirical approaches to the study of law.<br /> Legal scholarship is increasingly concerned with the way social norms control behavior.  This is the book that started that debate.  It deserves to be read by anybody who is interested in law, economics, or dispute resolution.	1997-12-29
US	52966758	R1NI7MRGNQHJG3	0896331709	172187656	A New Worldly Order: John Paul II and Human Freedom	Books	2	10	14	N	N	Disappointing.	Catholic social teaching took an important turn when Pope John Paul II promulgated his magisterial encyclical Centesimus Annus in 1991.  The Pope dealt with a wide range of topics, but focused special attention on economic justice.  While there is much that a democratic capitalist (to broow Michael Novak's useful phrase) might quibble with in the encyclical, it nevertheless rewards careful reading.  Unfortunately, this book does not do it justice.  The book is in two parts.  First, a poorly edited condensation of the encyclical itself.  Second, a collection of essays.  The commentaries mostly appeared in a 1991 issue of National Review.  They average 3-4 printed pages.  The analysis is uniformly shallow and even trite.  In short, there is little here that would be of interest to the serious scholar or even the informed layman.	1997-12-29
US	52966758	R127712IAICCKF	0871136791	11590154	Cold Mountain	Books	2	0	0	N	N	Riddle:  Why is this book like a Nehru Jacket?	Answer:  Because the popularity of both is an example of what cognitive psychologists call herd behavior.<br />I am a late comer to this book and I just don't get it.  The book is depressing (where's my zoloft?), plodding, and the ending (I skipped ahead) is enigmatic to the point of absurdity.<br />I think the hoopla over this book is an example of the herd behavior phenomenon at work.  Herd behavior is the tendency to imitate the actions of others, ignoring one's own information and judgment with regard to the merits of the underlying decision.  Think of lemmings running of a cliff or cattle stampeded into a corral.  People also engage in herd behavior.  Most fads, for example, occur because of herd behavior.  But why?  Herd behavior is partly attributable to cognitive biases, especially the conformity effect.  When one's decisions are publicly observable by peers, conformity has a positive psychic pay-off, whose existence has been experimentally demonstrated.  But herd behavior is also attributable to what economists call agency costs:  Following the crowd may have a pay-off even if the chosen course of action fails.  Because even a good decisionmaker can make decisions resulting in a bad outcome, outsiders look at both the decision and the outcome before forming a judgment about the decisionmaker.  If a bad outcome occurs, but the decision was consistent with approved conventional wisdom, the hit to our reputation is reduced.  When we follow the crowd, we are buying insurance against a bad outcome.  Buying into the conventional wisdom about this book has both payoffs.  We get the psychic payoff of being with the &quot;in&quot; crowd.  Lemmings must feel good about themselves except for the final second or two.  And even though we've wasted our time plowing through it, no one will question our literary good judgment.	1997-12-29
