US	52965795	R2JRJN4VM1NYYL	1400043816	831278383	Two Trains Running: A Novel	Books	4	4	7	N	N	New Territory for Vachss - Might Take One More to Get it Right	The prose, characterizations, and plotting here are up to Vachss's usual high standards, but this is the first time Vachss has attempted, so far as I know, a sprawling, multi-POV, omniscient narration; his wielding of this new tool is a little clumsy. Vachss has been working in first person mode for a long time. He seems a little uncomfortable with the omniscient narration and consequently overuses the tool of dialog-as-exposition. But that more of a writer's complaint than a reader's. If you like a good noir crime story, this is well worth your time.	2005-09-22
US	52965795	R2LFEKGRL8Y54U	0553383396	958287949	The Thackery T. Lambshead Pocket Guide to Eccentric & Discredited Diseases	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Every Doctor Should Have One	There are many great things about this book: the stunning visual design (made up to look like a 19th century medical guide, complete with original line drawings of all of the diseases and strange medical devices), the great line-up of authors, and the writing itself. I also like that the disease entries themselves are short, allowing for great bathroom or bedtime reading. The best thing about this book, though, is it's sense of humor. There is a lot of funny stuff in here.<br /><br />There are a lot of genre-oriented writers posing as doctors (such as Dr.'s Alan Moore and Michael Moorcock), but the appeal is in no way limited to people who like to read fantasy, science fiction, etc. In particular, all medical doctors (real ones, that is), should own a copy of this book. If you have a doctor, nurse, or other medical professional on your gift list, grab one of these and give them some good laughs.	2005-07-20
US	52965795	RBTHR5IL77CZ1	0764543679	535424489	VBScript: Programmer's Reference	Books	5	13	13	N	N	Make Sure You Get the Second Edition!	The 2nd Edition of the VBScript Programmer's Reference is a total rewrite of the first edition. Unfortunately, a lot of people are confused because both the first and second editions are for sale, and it can be hard to tell which one you are buying. Do not buy the old first edition! The new second edition is a much better book. I am a co-author of both editions, so I can say that with confidence. <br /> <br />Please check the page you are on and make sure you are purchasing the Second Edition. You can identify the Second Edition because the cover has three faces on it, and because there are only three authors, not a dozen. The Second Edition of the VBScript Programmer's Reference is the best VBScript book available. You won't be disappointed!	2004-12-22
US	52965795	R36SF5NY2T3YRM	1894815645	434824188	Veniss Underground	Books	5	5	5	N	Y	An ambitious work that exceeds its promise	.... At the risk of overselling, I was floored by this book.  I've been a fan of Jeff's work for over a decade (and, in the interest of full disclosure, a friend), so I've known he was a great writer for a long time.  But this, his first novel, surpassed any expectation I could have had and made clear to me how good he really is--and he's just getting started!<br />\\"Veniss Underground\\" succeeds on so many levels.  First, it has fully realized characters who fully engaged me.  Not only did I see them as real, their respective plights became important to me.<br />Second, it has a simultaneously exotic, beautiful, terrible, and revolting far-future setting that is vividly described.  One thing that I especially appreciated about Jeff's work on the settings is that he never feels the need to describe how such a crazy place came to be, what century we're in exactly, or what part of the world.  The city of Veniss just *is*.<br />Third, the action and pacing are brisk enough to keep the book moving and create suspense, but just leisurely enough to allow lingering on the settings and the abundance of strange creatures.  The third section of the book, in particular, is a hell of a ride.  There are scenes in this third section that will stay with me forever.  I can't provide much description of the third section of the book without spoiling the fun and surprises, so I won't try.<br />Fourth, the prose itself is near-perfect.  As always with Jeff's work, each sentence is so obviously crafted with loving care.  As a writer myself, I know the kind of painstaking, repeated rewriting that it takes to get prose that is both this poetic and this tight.  The prose is lush without ever bogging down--as beautiful as the prose in, for instance, Pynchon's \\"Crying of Lot 49,\\" but you never have to stop and re-read a sentence because it falters under its own weight.<br />In addition, Jeff takes some risks with the storytelling technique that totally succeed.  Again, I don't want to spoil surprises, but I do want to say that this technique succeeds so well because it allowed me to see the characters in a way I don't think I otherwise would have been able to.  I am in awe of what Jeff pulls off here.<br />I predict that this book will find a large audience because Jeff has managed to write a highly accessible book filled with beautiful prose; surreal, exotic, vivid settings; compelling characters; and a great story.  Throughout the book, there are moments of laugh-out-loud humor side-by-side with moments of horror and revulsion side-by-side with moments of true beauty.  \\"Veniss Underground\\" is one of those rare novels that possesses real popular appeal *and* true literary merit worthy of study, in the same package with elements of fantasy, a far-future setting, imagined technologies, and just plain surrealism.  Don't miss this.	2003-03-29
US	52965795	R1N931SX43B8QS	1587154366	327081581	City of Saints and Madmen: The Book of Ambergris	Books	5	10	12	N	Y	Great Writing, Great Storytelling, Great Book	For those who have not yet discovered Jeff Vandermeer, and his rich, beautiful, and terrible world called Ambergris, I envy you.  Within the pages of City of Saints and Madmen, you will find a rare quality of writing and storytelling that will at turns cause you to laugh, to cringe, to wonder, and to marvel at the audacity and daring of a writer to create these characters, situations, and settings.  For those who are looking mainly for great storytelling, human drama, and fantastic settings, you will absolutely find what you are looking for here.  However, for those who are also fetishists for exquisite prose, you will find more than you bargained for.  Vandermeer's skill with the English language is what is sure to earn him an international following.  Reading City of Saints and Madmen, it is clear that the author has slaved over every word, every sentence.  I cannot fathom the rewriting, polishing, and sleepless nights that must go into this kind of prose.<br />Everything in this book is great, but my favorite piece has to be the novella &quot;The Transformation of Martin Lake.&quot;  This is the one that won the World Fantasy Award, beating out the likes of Lucius Shepard and Tanith Lee that year.  Another favorite is &quot;Dradin, In Love,&quot; which was a finalist for the prestigious Theodore Sturgeon Award.  City of Saints and Madmen is indeed a collection, but if you are primarily a fan of novels, don't let that put you off.  The four main pieces are quite long, and each is quite satisfying on its own.  This is not just a collection of short stories, but rather more like a cycle of novellas, all set in the same world.  Also, this kind of &quot;literary&quot; fantastical writing always brings up the &quot;Is it genre fiction?&quot; question, but I hope that you will find that Vandermeer transcends these concerns in the same way that Jonathan Carrol and Angela Carter do.<br />Finally, you have probably guessed that given this level of praise (bordering, no doubt, on hyperbole), I was a fan of Jeff Vandermeer's before the publication of this book.  If you did, then you guessed right.  I have been a fan for many years, and I keep waiting for the world to catch on to this great writer.  As you will see from the introduction by Michael Moorcock and the words of praise by China Mieville, Norman Spinrad, Terri Windling, Brian Stableford, Thomas Ligotti, Paul Di Filippo, and Ed Bryant, I am not the only one.  Enjoy.bt, on hyperbole), I was a fan of Jeff Vandermeer's before the publication of this book.  If you did, then you guessed right.  I have been a fan for many years, and I keep waiting for the world to catch on to this great writer.  As you will see from the introduction by Michael Moorcock and the words of praise by China Mieville, Norman Spinrad, Terri Windling, Brian Stableford, Thomas Ligotti, Paul Di Filippo, and Ed Bryant, I am not the only one.  Enjoy.	2001-09-25
US	52965795	R2RYTOH94O4H8R	0895292211	355805847	Enzyme Nutrition	Books	5	116	121	N	N	The Real Deal	This book turned my conceptions of food, nutrition, disease, disorder, and digestion up-side-down.  If you have doubts about *why* a raw food diet is a good idea, and why in many cases it can save a person's life, then this is the book to start with.  &quot;Enzyme Nutrition&quot; is pretty much a scientific book.  It is not a manifesto, or a how-to book, but rather a presentation of one man's life-long research into the role that food enzymes play in human digestion.  Don't let that scare you away, however, because the language is very easy to understand, and the book is easy to read.  In fact, this book is a condensation of the author's unpublished 700 page book, a book that supposedly took him 20 years to write.<br />It is really a shame that this book is not a bestseller, and that Dr. Howell's theories are not more widely known.  The ideas in it are, pardon the possible hyperbole, revolutionary.  Many of the ideas that you read in other raw food and enzyme books are based on Howell's research (although, to be accurate, not all raw food advocates are advocates of Howell's ideas).  I can not recommend this book highly enough.  I hope I live to see Howell's theories accepted by the mainstream &quot;medical establishment,&quot; just as the discoveries of vitamins and minerals (which are only two-thirds of the equation) have.	2000-12-21
US	52965795	RI5UO1FJP625	0965353354	48994326	Raw Power! Building Strength and Muscle Naturally	Books	5	13	19	N	N	A Bit Mixed Up	It was refreshing that this book was not so extreme as the &quot;Natures First Law&quot; book, of which Steve Arlin is a co-author.  However, this book is not sure what it wants to be.  Is it a recipe book?  Is it a tips-for-eating-raw book?  Is it a bodybuilding book?  I think the book tries to be all these things, but unfortunately, with such a short length, it can't possibly achieve this.  That said, there are some positive aspects to this book, and I'm glad I read it.  I would recommend this book to someone who has already read several other raw-food-related books, and is seeking more information.  The author does share some good insights and tips on eating a raw diet.  He has been raw for several years, and he does have some good stuff to share.  His wife also provides a lot of great recipes (but why is she not credited on the cover of the book?).  If you're looking for an exercise program or information specific to body building techniques, you are not going to find much of that here.	2000-12-21
US	52965795	R3EVHX72NAVJO1	0965353303	407340326	Nature's First Law: The Raw-Food Diet	Books	2	206	214	N	N	Not the best approach	I have been gradually transitioning to a raw-foods diet (I have been vegetarian for a little over two years), so I have been reading a ton of books on the subject.  It's a good thing that this was not the first one I read.  It's a shame that the authors, while being highly motivated and passionate about a raw-food diet, have chosen to advocate the subject in such an in-your-face, absolutist manner.  It's really a turn-off.  They have taken stances that are easily supported by documented facts, but instead of supporting them with facts, they choose to make raw-foodism sound like a religion.  It's not a religion, it's just a way of eating.  I'm sure their approach is a turn-on for some people, so perhaps it's good that a book like this exists for those people who need to hear the message this way.  <br />That said, I'd avoid this book until you've read some more sane and well documented books like Dr. Norman Walker's &quot;Enzyme Nutrition,&quot; which is the most scientific and documented of all the literature on the subject.  Other good books are Ann Wigmore's wheatgrass book and some of her other books; any of the books by Steve Myerowitz; and the &quot;How I Conquered Cancer Naturally&quot; book.  I have also heard that two books called &quot;The Raw Life&quot; and &quot;Blatant Raw-Foodist Propaganda&quot; are good.  The Natural Hygiene literature is generally very good as well.  Take advantage of all the raw food related web sites out there.<br />Sorry to diverge from the review, but after getting off coffee, soda, aspartame, refined sugar, and other obvious evils, I have been increasing the raw food in my diet gradually to the point where my diet is 80-95% raw most days.  The results have been incredible.  I feel amazing (everyone always says that, but it's true) and the pounds are just falling off.  I don't feel deprived at all, and eating takes on a new meaning when you can feel the food nourishing your body in a way that cooked food never did.  You owe it toyourself to try this, especially if you are infirm or overweight in any way.  Take it one step at a time.  No need to switch 100% your first day.	2000-11-29
US	52965795	R3943HVWBRIFJ7	1569246351	86109280	Genetically Engineered Foods: A Self-Defense Guide for Consumers	Books	5	38	41	N	N	A Book that Needed to be Written	I knew instinctively that I was against GE foods, and absolutely in favor of mandatory labeling of GE foods, but I did not know the actual facts behind the argument against GE foods.  This book lays out those facts clearly.  The authors make no attempt to hide the fact that they are against GE foods, but they do not let their bias get in the way of their reporting of the facts.  There's no ranting and raving or kook-talk going on here.  True, there are not enough facts to go around on this issue, but what few *independent* studies have been done have produced alarming results.  The book also does an excellent job of illustrating how so many other countries around the world have absolutely rejected GE foods.  The costs paid by the American farmer are also discussed.  And there is a ton of consumer-related info.  If you eat food, you need this book.	2000-11-10
US	52965795	R31MBBLZZC3J6Q	1878736655	749412998	Juice Fasting and Detoxification: Use the Healing Power of Fresh Juice to Feel Young and Look Great	Books	5	85	91	N	N	Full of Great Info and Easy to Read	Everyone is entitled to their opinion, of course, but I can't imagine why  anyone would give this book a two star review and say that it does not  contain enough information.  This book is full of information.  I have just  finished reading this book, as well as the author's wheatgrass book (which  I would also strongly recommend), and the amount of specific information  that he packs into such a slim book is impressive.  I can't think of a  single question which was not answered for me somewhere in the book.  Any  concerns or questions you might have about this controversial subject are  answered with real facts, not hype or new age mumbo jumbo.  The author's  writing style is also very easy to read.  I have not tried a juice fast  yet, but after reading this book I am getting ready to, and I know I'll be  coming back to the book for consultation as I go.	2000-09-15
US	52965795	RJGDGPIHP7JBS	0892967048	727646325	The Bottoms	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Maybe Lansdale's Best Book	I've read all of Joe Lansdale's novels, and a significant percentage of  his short stories. I believe that &quot;The Bottoms&quot; may be his best  book yet. This novel finds Lansdale exploring new narritive and stylistic  territory while staying within many of his traditional themes. This may  also be his most accesible book to date, and should gain him some new  readers whose sensibilities might be too fragile for some of Joe's earlier  horror novels. &quot;The Bottoms&quot; is indeed a horror novel, a genre  that Lansdale has not explored for a number of years. Really though, it  might be more proper to call this a hybrid of the mystery/crime/detective,  horror, and traditional literary forms. There are elements of all of these,  but no single aspect is overemphasized.<br />The story is set in 1930's East  Texas and centers around a family living in a small town called Marvel  Creek. The narration is from the point of view of an old man, near death,  telling the story from the point of view of himself as a teenager. The  author's narrative execution is truly masterful. Lansdale manages to  capture both the point of view of the teenage boy and the elderly man, so  that we see everything through both aspects of the same person.<br />The story  itself is also constructed with a master's touch. This is a longish novel  (more than 400 pages), and the gradual buildup, climax, and denouement are  perfectly paced and executed. Many people are primarily familiar with  Lansdale through his Hap and Leonard books, but &quot;The Bottoms&quot; is  a much different animal. The pacing is much slower, and there is an  innocence and wonder that pervades the whole book. As always, though, the  best thing about a Joe Lansdale novel is the characters. I feel like I know  these characters. It's the characters that will grab you and keep you there  for the whole book. &quot;The Bottoms&quot; is some of Lansdale's best  writing to date. Don't hesitate.	2000-09-06
US	52965795	R1XBLHI1F2DVVS	0932633137	932956298	Exploring Requirements: Quality Before Design	Books	5	47	49	N	Y	Essential Reading	By no means have I read everything there is to read on the subject of software requirements, but I've not read anything better than this book.  What I really like about this book, and about Weinberg's writings in  general, is that it does not get bogged down in a bunch of academic  methodology mumbo jumbo.  Gause and Weinberg's approach is imminently  practical and free of buzzwords and complicated steps and models and CASE  tools.  No special equipment or licensing is required in order to take the  advice in this book and make a huge difference in your current and future  projects.<br />That said, do not let me give the impression that this book is  vague or that it does not get into specifics or that it does not contain  some useful step-by-step approaches.  It is not vague at all, and it gets  into plenty of specifics.  What impresses me the most is the way it  achieves complete coverage of the subject without bogging down or becoming  boring.  After reading this book, it is very likely that you will not feel  the need to read much else on the subject of software requirements.<br />Now,  what is most amazing is this: this is *not* specifically a book about  *software* requirements.  It is about any kind of requirements for any kind  of project that requires a design, be it a new and better mousetrap or a  large software system.  My comments have used the term &quot;software  requirements&quot; because this is why I read the book, and why I think a  lot of people will read it.  But this book is for anyone who must specify  the requirements for something that must be designed and/or built, no  matter what field you are in.  The lessons here are so univeral that it  does not matter which context you use them in.  Essential reading.	2000-07-24
US	52965795	R9096U2UXOV60	0306806843	231451179	'Round About Midnight: A Portrait of Miles Davis	Books	4	6	8	N	N	An Excellent Book that Any Miles Fan Should Read	I really enjoyed this book, and tore through it as fast as I could while still reading it carefully.  Author Eric Nisenson is to be commended for the insights he provides into the career and character of Miles Davis.  Nisenson covers his entire career and life, from birth to death, even  though many periods are summed up too quickly, and I was often left wanting  more detail.<br />That said, if I had not read this &quot;updated  edition&quot; of the book, I might not be so full of praise.  Nisenson's  original version of this biography was released in 1982, and this updated  version came out in 1996.  Nisenson adds a Preface, and a few chapters to  the end of the book.  These additions are, to me, the heart of the book.  As I said, Nisenson does a fine job covering Miles's career in the body of  the book, and the author appears to have a greater understanding of the  character and true essence of Miles Davis than anyone else that I've read.  This is definitely the story of Miles Davis through the lens of the  author's experience, and Nisenson knew Davis personally and understands him  well.  However, it was the new material that provided the greatest insights  for me.<br />First, in the new Preface, Nisenson writes about the time that he  knew Miles Davis, when Miles was in &quot;retirement,&quot; and when they  were working on this book together (Miles pulled out of the project later  because publishers insisted that he help publicize the book, and he was not  interested in doing so at the time.).  These glimpses into Miles's personal  life and character are revealing.  Most startling to me was the revelation  that Miles Davis had, in Nisenson's words, &quot;beaten and abused women  throughout his life.&quot;  Nisenson laments the fact that, despite the  fact that Miles &quot;brutally abused women&quot; was &quot;well known  throughout the jazz community,&quot; few, if any, jazz critics or  biographers, have seen fit to mention it.  I give Nisenson a lot of credit  for taking himself to task for not addressing the issue in his original  edition of &quot;'Round About Midnight.&quot;  He writes:<br />&quot;But now,  after ther O.J. Simpson affair, I really think it is time to view such  activity for what it is--sick and evil.  I guess when I wrote this book I  still thought of Miles as a friend, but there is really no excuse.  It  amazes me how people like Miles can scream about the evils of  racism--rightly so--and then continually abuse women.  What utter  hypocrisy.&quot;<br />Bravo, Mr. Nisenson.  It does not serve anyone well to  deify this musical genius without remembering the &quot;sick and evil&quot;  parts of his character.<br />Nisenson also adds a couple of chapters to the  end of the book.  These were extremely revealing to me.  In the chapter  called &quot;Phoenix,&quot; Nisenson provides great insight into the  post-&quot;retirement&quot; phase of Miles's career, the utter absurdity  and banality of which has always perplexed me.  The final chapter, before a  useful abridged discography, addresses the question &quot;who was Miles  Davis&quot; and debunks and deconstructs the oft-repeated myth that he  &quot;changed music four or five times.&quot;<br />The reason for the lack of  a fifth star in my rating is due to a two flaws in the book: One, it lacks  detail too much of the time and sums things up to quickly.  This book  should be about twice as long as it is.  And two, there are some mistakes  in the not-detailed-enough documentation of Miles's recording  sessions.<br />Despite these flaws, I strongly recommend the purchase of this  book.it  for taking himself to task for not addressing the issue in his original  edition of &quot;'Round About Midnight.&quot;  He writes:<br />&quot;But now,  after ther O.J. Simpson affair, I really think it is time to view such  activity for what it is--sick and evil.  I guess when I wrote this book I  still thought of Miles as a friend, but there is really no excuse.  It  amazes me how people like Miles can scream about the evils of  racism--rightly so--and then continually abuse women.  What utter  hypocrisy.&quot;<br />Bravo, Mr. Nisenson.  It does not serve anyone well to  deify this musical genius without remembering the &quot;sick and evil&quot;  parts of his character.<br />Nisenson also adds a couple of chapters to the  end of the book.  These were extremely revealing to me.  In the chapter  called &quot;Phoenix,&quot; Nisenson provides great insight into the  post-&quot;retirement&quot; phase of Miles's career, the utter absurdity  and banality of which has always perplexed me.  The final chapter, before a  useful abridged discography, addresses the question &quot;who was Miles  Davis&quot; and debunks and deconstructs the oft-repeated myth that he  &quot;changed music four or five times.&quot;<br />The reason for the lack of  a fifth star in my rating is due to a two flaws in the book: One, it lacks  detail too much of the time and sums things up to quickly.  This book  should be about twice as long as it is.  And two, there are some mistakes  in the not-detailed-enough documentation of Miles's recording  sessions.<br />Despite these flaws, I strongly recommend the purchase of this  book.	2000-07-16
US	52965795	R14Z5B12MJ5C52	1892284618	727646325	The Bottoms: Lettered Edition	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Maybe Lansdale's Best Book	I've read all of Joe Lansdale's novels, and a significant percentage of his short stories.  I believe that &quot;The Bottoms&quot; may be his best book yet.  This novel finds Lansdale exploring new narritive and stylistic  territory while staying within many of his traditional themes.  This may  also be his most accesible book to date, and should gain him some new  readers whose sensibilities might be too fragile for some of Joe's earlier  horror novels.<br />&quot;The Bottoms&quot; is indeed a horror novel, a genre  that Lansdale has not explored for a number of years.  Really though, it  might be more proper to call this a hybrid of the crime/detective, horror,  and traditional literary forms.  There are elements of all of these, but no  single aspect is overemphasized.<br />The story is set in 1930's East Texas  and centers around a family living in a small town called Marvel Creek.   The narration is from the point of view of an old man, near death, telling  the story from the point of view of himself as a teenager.  The author's  narrative execution is truly masterful.  Lansdale manages to capture both  the point of view of the teenage boy and the elderly man, so that we see  everything through both aspects of the same person.<br />The story itself is  also constructed with a master's touch.  This is a longish novel (more than  400 pages), and the gradual buildup, climax, and denouement are perfectly  paced and executed.  Many people are primarily familiar with Lansdale  through his Hap and Leonard books, but &quot;The Bottoms&quot; is a much  different animal.  The pacing is much slower, and there is an innocence and  wonder that pervades the whole book.  As always, though, the best thing  about a Joe Lansdale novel is the characters.  I feel like I know these  characters.  It's the characters that will grab you and keep you there for  the whole book.<br />Lansdale never disappoints.  It's amazing to me the  variety that I always find in his novels.  In recentmonths, I have read  &quot;Freezer Burn&quot;, &quot;Waltz of Shadows&quot;, &quot;Blood  Dance&quot;, and &quot;The Bottoms&quot;.  Each of these books is totally  different from the others, yet they all have that Lansdale quality.   &quot;The Bottoms&quot; is some of Lansdale's best writing to date.  Don't  hesitate.	2000-06-28
US	52965795	R1DTUUEVTAORZ7	0964164078	104652578	Bodybuilding a Realistic Approach: How You Can Have a Great Body!	Books	5	9	9	N	Y	Exactly What I Was Looking For	Frank Melfa is to be commended for this great book.  The title is well chosen, because this book does indeed offer a straightforward, no-bull explanation of the steps you need to follow in order to fulfill whatever  goals you have, no matter what level you're at.  This book gives me  everything I need, because not only does it give clear, concise, easy to  follow instructions on a full range of weightlifting exercises, but the  author goes much further with in-depth discussions of which combinations of  exercises you can do, different training strategies, how many sets and reps  to do, and which exercises are particularly useful for meeting one goal or  another.  He also includes detailed discussions of nutrition, and specific  guidelines and tips for either gaining or losing weight.  There is also a  lot of material aimed at more experienced body builders who wish to prepare  for a contest and get into the competitive side of the sport.<br />I am not at  that level, so I can say for beginners considering this book that the  advanced material is well separated from the main body of the book.  This  is a great book for a beginner.  Reading the book, I really feel like I'm  getting personalized advice from a professional trainer.  I have not yet  encountered a single question that I was not able to answer with this  book.<br />I bought &quot;Bodybuilding: A Realistic Approach&quot; when I  first started working out, about six months ago.  It was a tremendous help  getting me started in coming up with a good program and doing the exercises  properly.  Since then, I have consulted the book several more times,  reading many chapters again.  I have found that there is so much detailed  material and advice that I get more out of it each time.  As I've gained  experience and strength, the book has helped me with the finer points,  making adjustments to the workout, realizing that I've been doing an  exercise wrong, or finding a new exercise to add to my routine.<br />I can't  say enough good things about this book.  Be sure and check out the table of  contents because there's a lot of material I did not even mention.	2000-06-18
US	52965795	R35YJZI7AUWA97	1892284669	837875934	Blood Dance (The Lost Lansdale Series Vol. 3)	Books	4	7	7	N	N	A Great One for Lansdale Collectors	This is another in Subterranean Press's &quot;Lost Lansdale&quot; series.  I really like this series so far.  The first two that I've read, Waltz of Shadows and Blood Dance, have been very entertaining and satisfying.  They  are not perfect books, but that is not the intention.  In the case of Waltz  of Shadows, Lansdale simply decided not to publish it when he finished it  years ago.  Blood Dance, though, was an early Western novel that just had a  lot of bad luck through multiple planned publications.<br />Blood Dance is  pretty much a traditional Western.  Lansdale stays within the structure of  an off-the-drugstore-rack pulp-style Western yarn, which is what I think he  set out to do.  Lansdale readers, though, will recognize plenty of  Lansdale's stylistic trademarks.  The book has some very minor flaws, and I  won't get into them for fear of spoiling anything, but they were for me  very easy to forgive.  Generally, this is a very polished piece of writing.   The story pulls you right along, and Lansdale knows that it's all about  the characters anyway, and there are plenty of interesting and well-drawn  characters here.<br />I like that Lansdale resisted the urge to revise these  &quot;lost&quot; novels (although I think he cleaned up Waltz of Shadows a  little for publication).  As a long-time fan, it's enjoyable for me to read  an early novel, warts and all.  Waltz of Shadows is not likely to be  published again any time soon, but this book, Blood Dance, might be in  paperback someday for those that miss this limited edition.	2000-06-04
US	52965795	RXX5DSN0HKWF3	1892284294	813566568	Waltz of Shadows (Lost Lansdale Series ~ Volume 1)	Books	4	8	9	N	N	A Great One for Lansdale Collectors	I really enjoyed this novel, and I'm very happy to own the limited edition book.  This is part of the &quot;Lost Lansdale&quot; series that Subterranean Press has been doing such an awesome job with.  Waltz of  Shadows, as Lansdale himself explains, was written in the early 90's, but  Joe did not feel it was up to standards and decided not to publish it.   Supposedly, this will be the only edition of this book for the forseeable  future.<br />Waltz of Shadows is indeed flawed, and Lansdale was wise to keep  it in the trunk.  But for an avid Lansdale reader such as myself, the book  is very enjoyable anyway.  When I say it is flawed, I don't mean in any  kind of hopeless way.  The writing is tight, and pure Lansdale.  There are,  however, a few clumsy linchpins in the plot, and a few of the characters  are struggling to be something they're not.  But anything I noticed was  easily forgiven, and I charged right through the book very quickly.<br />If  this is still available, I'd say grab it for your Lansdale collection for  sure.  But if you're just a casual fan, I'd say stick with the many more  modestly priced Lansdale novels that are in print.	2000-05-25
US	52965795	R2U6D13MGSEZBT	0735608776	678153780	After the Gold Rush: Creating a True Profession of Software Engineering (DV-Best Practices)	Books	5	35	39	N	Y	An excellent roadmap and an important book	Steve McConnel is right on the money here.  Software Engineering needs to mature into a real &quot;profession&quot;, in the sense the engineers, doctors, and lawyers belong to a &quot;profession&quot;.  This is the basic  point of the book.  As McConnell says in the Introduction, &quot;It's time  for software development to grow up.&quot;<br />However, contrary to some  other reviews, this book is a lot more that just a rehash of &quot;Rapid  Development&quot; (one of McConnell's earlier books, and an essential book  in its own right).  &quot;After the Gold Rush&quot; does make some points  that are also made in &quot;Rapid Development&quot;, but the intent and  content of &quot;After the Gold Rush&quot; is totally different.<br />This  book is part manifesto, and part roadmap.  McConnell puts forth the idea  that, despite the proven effectiveness of many fully developed &quot;best  practices&quot;, the software development industry as a whole continues to  ignore them and engage in &quot;code and fix&quot; style development.  The  software industry, McConnell writes, needs to grow up and start taking on  some of the characteristics of more mature professions, especially the  engineering profession.  After making this point, and backing it up with  studies and other empirical data, McConnell proceeds to lay out the  qualities that a mature profession possesses, which of those qualities the  software industry is lacking, and how we can move forward toward maturity,  examining such topics as education, licensing, and ethics.<br />I feel this is  essential reading for any developer.  Will this book teach you about  coupling and cohesion or show you the ins and outs of running a JAD  session?  No, that's what &quot;Code Complete&quot; and &quot;Rapid  Development&quot; are for (and please read those if you haven't).  This  book foretells (and I believe will help fulfill) the inevitable future of  software engineering as a profession.  This book provides a look at whatsoftware developers do from a higher perspective, and puts the profession  in a broader (even historical) context.  It has helped me to consider my  job as a software developer from a fresh angle, and to take stock of my  role in the future of the profession.	2000-05-17
US	52965795	R4FOPO4HZJBDJ	0965590143	145459545	Perpetuity Blues and Other Stories	Books	5	1	1	N	N	A Superb Collection	This is a great collection of Neal Barrett's short fiction from the 80's and early 90's.  Barrett's stock went way up during this period, in large part due to the stories collected here (but also because of the success of  the novels &quot;Through Darkest America&quot;, &quot;Dawn's Uncertain  Light&quot;, and &quot;The Hereafter Gang&quot;).  The title story,  &quot;Perpetuity Blues&quot; is a really odd gem.  On the surface, there's  not much to it, but it has really stuck with me for years since reading it.   It's a funny thing, but Barrett has a way of bringing you into the world  of his characters for just a brief moment.  It's like being submerged.  The  settings are vivid and real, yes, but it's the characters that hook you and  keep you with them long after the story is complete.  &quot;A Day at the  Fair&quot;, another story here, also has that effect.  I highly recommend  this book to anyone who is a fan or student of the short story form.   Forget that many of these stories have genre trappings--this is great  literature.  The book itself, also, is beautful and well put together.   Hats off to Golden Gryphon for giving these stories their due.	2000-04-26
US	52965795	R1E449YPEU5P13	089296703X	838242699	Freezer Burn	Books	5	12	13	N	N	One of my Favorite Lansdale Books	I'm sorry that a lot of folks have not liked this book, but I have to respectfully disagree.  I've been reading Joe for twelve years, and to me &quot;Freezer Burn&quot; harkens back to his pre- Hap and Leonard days.   Old school Lansdale.  (Don't get me wrong--I'm a big fan of the Hap and  Leonard books.)<br />This lean and mean story is Flannery O'Connor trapped in  a James M. Cain novel (though I'm not the first person to make the Flannery  O'Connor/James M. Cain comparison--I read an interview in which Lansdale  says basically the same thing.)  The story is sort of an homage to a  certain kind of book.  If you're not a fan of Charles Willeford or James M.  Cain or pre-Scudder Lawrence Block, then you might not catch the literary  reference/homage that I think Lansdale is making.<br />The story is  predictable, but that's not the point.  This is your standard  hapless-loser-with-a-streak-of-bad-luck-is-seduced-and-used-by-a-beautiful-woman-to-kill-her-husband-and-the-whole-thing-goes-bad  story.  I don't think I just spoiled the story for anyone because the book  does not try to hide it's traditional plot structure.  There have been a  million of these stories.<br />A previous reviewer here has already pointed  this fact out: Lansdale's novels are not about intricate plots with subtle  hints and clues and red herrings and twists that keep you guessing all the  time.  (If you're in need of that, might I suggest Lawrence Block's Scudder  novels.)  Joe's novels are about the characters, like them or not, and  doing new things within traditional pulp-like plot structures.<br />What makes  this book great is the fun that Lansdale has with the traditional form.  In  that old-school Lansdale way, the characters are over the top ridiculous,  often repulsive, sad, and laughable at the same time.  Yet, also in that  Lansdale way, they are all too human, and real.  The situations and  settings are classic Lansdale, bringing me back to many stories from  &quot;By Bizarre Hands&quot; and the &quot;Drive In&quot;  novels.<br />Finally, some people were displeased because the main character  is not a likable guy.  It is true, he is not.  But this did not bother me.   A protaganist, for me, does not have to be likable--just compelling.  Look  at Charles Willeford's classic, &quot;High Priest of California&quot;--a  favorite of mine.  The protagonist, Russell Haxby, is a complete a$$hole.   But I love that book.  (The a$$hole protagonist is a favorite device of  Willefords.)<br />Anyway, this is a long-winded review, but this is a great  Lansdale book that has obviously not given all of his fans what they were  hoping for, but I love it just the same.	2000-03-19
US	52965795	R1N5BDU1273IIN	1861002440	126578996	Visual Basic 6 Mts Programming (Vb Com Series)	Books	4	33	35	N	Y	A Very Worthwhile Book that I Got a Lot From	This is an excellent book.  It is not for a beginner, however.  If you need an introduction to MTS, then try out Wrox's other MTS book, &quot;MTS MSMQ with VB and ASP&quot; (what a great title), which is also excellent  and gives a higher level introductory view.  I read the MTS MSMQ book and  immediately ordered this book for the more advanced material.  It's not  rocket science, however, and I don't know why a previous reviewer had so  much trouble with it.  The book does assume that you are already familiar  with objects, VB, databases, etc.  If you are a total beginner, don't start  here.  Try Peter Wright's &quot;Beginning&quot; Wrox books, which do a good  job of getting you up to speed on the basics.<br />I gave this book four stars  rather than five for two reasons: one, I actually learned a lot more about  the proper way to use MTS from a series of articles on vb2themax.com--alost  none of this in-the-trenches material was included in this book.  The  second reason was that I wished that the book had more theory to go along  with the excellent nuts-and-bolts material.  What I mean is that there is  plenty of great coverage here of how MTS works, how the distributed  processing and transaction management works, how to set up and adminster  MTS, plus good chapters on security, debugging, and COM+.  I wish, however,  that there was more material discussing the design considerations for  stateless objects and MTS class design at a system level.  This is not to  say that there is none of this material--there is, I just wanted more.  If  you are already good at conceiving class designs and hierarchies, then  transitioning to the stateless paradigm should not be too painful.<br />One  other quibble: somehow the terms &quot;object&quot; and &quot;class&quot;  have been suplanted by the term &quot;component&quot;.  A component is not  an object, and vice versa, but now the terminology has become so  bastardized that all these terms are interchangeable.  This is lessthe  fault of this book and more the fault of Microsoft for calling objects  &quot;components&quot; within MTS itself.  Imagine Microsoft confusing  things by muddying the vocabulary waters...<br />Despite my quibbles, as I  said this is an excellent book for an experienced VB programmer who needs  to learn most of the ins and outs of MTS.  I have not encountered a better  MTS book.	2000-02-18
US	52965795	R6X8S83C4J2AY	1885418213	56562821	The Hereafter Gang	Books	5	8	9	N	N	Finally back in print!	The Washington Post review, quoted above, says it better than I can hope to.  This is a really great book.  As the review says, &quot;It is one of the great American novels. Try to find it.&quot;  Unfortunately, you've  always had to dig to find this book.  As I write this, it's been out of  print for eight or nine years.  If you were not already familiar with the  sf/fantasy/horror/fantastic/genre scene of specialty publishers, you'd have  had a hard time knowing this book was ever published.  Neal Barrett is just  too off the wall for mainstream publishers to understand or categorize for  marketing purposes.<br />Unfortunately, not much has changed for The Hereafter  Gang.  Mojo Press, like Ziesing in 1991, has done a great job presenting  this book, and I thank them for finally bringing it back into print.   Luckily, though, in the year 2000 we now have the internet and Amazon.com,  and souls like yourself have a slightly better chance of stumbling across  this great book.<br />The Hereafter Gang is definitely different--from most  other books, and from the rest of Barrett's awesome body of work.  I guess  you could call it &quot;magical realism.&quot;  It has elements of the  fantastic, but it's not a genre or &quot;category&quot; book.  It will  appeal to those with an appreciation for fantastic fiction, but the sheer  brilliance of the writing will also hook those with a more traditional  literary bent.  As you can surmise from the above Washington Post review,  Barrett really goes out on a narrative limb here, but he pulls it off  impressively.  Buy this before it goes out of print again.<br />You should  also try the rest of Barrett's work, though you might need to comb the used  book stores for the stuff that's out of print.  His &quot;Aldair&quot;  series is a great mix of Mark Twain and Robert E. Howard--intellectual  heroic fantasy.  The more recent &quot;Blues&quot; series of books are like  no other mystery/crime fiction I've ever read (except for maybe Joe  Lansdale).  &quot;Through Darkest America&quot; and &quot;Dawn's Uncertain  Light&quot; will thrill you as well.	2000-01-03
US	52965795	R2LIFE0TFZ4J8U	1575661799	154466987	Dead Dog Blues	Books	5	6	6	N	N	You owe it to yourself to try Neal Barrett	If you are a fan of great writing, you must try out Neal Barrett.  This &quot;Blues&quot; series is Barrett in top form.  After you've torn through these books, check out Joe Lansdale and Andrew Vachss, and while you're at  it, track down a copy of Barrett's out-of-print masterpiece, &quot;The  Hereafter Gang.&quot;	1999-07-07
US	52965795	R2UMR7N2L97FPQ	1575661349	307381815	Skinny Annie Blues (Wiley Moss Mystery)	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Don't let the people who don't get it scare you off	Everyone is entitled to their opinion, and Neal Barrett is certainly not for everyone, but this, and the other books in the &quot;Blues&quot; series, are top-notch writing and storytelling.  Few do it better than Neal  Barrett, and frankly Carl Hiassen does not even compete in the same league  as Barrett (although fans of Hiassen might find a new friend in Barrett).   As evidenced by the previous reviewers who did not like the book, this is  not for the faint of heart, nor is it for those who do not appreciate the  bizzare and the off-color.	1999-07-07
US	52965795	R2X8EV4D3JMPK0	0553563033	264266766	The Golden	Books	5	6	6	N	N	I Can't Believe This Book Is Out of Print	I can't believe this book is out of print--or maybe I should not be surprised.  Lucius Shepard is a giant, one of our best living writers.  This book is a masterpiece.  Forget the fact that it is about vampires.   Track down a copy of this, and check out &quot;Life During Wartime&quot;,  &quot;Green Eyes&quot;, and &quot;The Ends of the Earth&quot; while you're  at it.  Lucius, where are you?  We need some new books!	1999-07-07
US	52965795	R3C4QOA5JQ247B	157566173X	393661770	Bad Eye Blues: A Wiley Moss Mystery	Books	5	5	6	N	Y	Neal Barrett Is One of the Best	No matter what genre(s) he's writing in, it's hard to top Neal Barrett.  In my mind, only Joe Lansdale, Andrew Vachss, and Lawrence Block are writing crime/mystery fiction of this caliber.  If you like the  non-traditional approach, and lean-and-mean prose, check out this Wiley  Moss &quot;Blues&quot; series by Neal Barrett.  Then, if you can, track  down a copy of &quot;The Hereafter Gang&quot;, a masterpiece that is sadly  out of print.  The reading public at large will discover Neal Barrett's  awesome body of work someday, and I hope I'm around to see it.	1999-07-07
US	52965795	R1PAYAAME2CJPI	0672309998	53194218	Alison Balter's Mastering Access 97 Development, Premier Edition, Second Edition (2nd Edition)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	This is the best book for *developing* Access applications	If you need or want to learn how to actually *develop* applications using MS Access, then this is your book.  Most Access books teach you how to *use* Access, but there are only a few a books for developers (or would-be  developers).  This is the best one if you do not already have VB experience  or experience in some other RAD Windows development tool like Delphi or  Powerbuilder, or in another desktop database tool like Borland Paradox.  If  you already have this type of experience, I recommend the Access Developers  Handbook.  Otherwise, Alison Balter is the ticket.	1999-06-10
US	52965795	R2EE7X1N2K7L2L	0882821644	390966575	Sweet Poison: How the World's Most Popular Artificial Sweetener Is Killing Us - My Story	Books	5	18	28	N	Y	If you are ingesting this poison, you must read this book	Even if you've never experienced one of the dozens of symptoms and diseases associated with aspartame ingestion, you must buy this book and read it.  Unless you are very good at denial, it will convince you of all  the well-documented reasons to:<br />a) never ingest this junk again<br />b)  advise your friends and family of what you've learned--lord knows the  government's not going to do it<br />c) write the FDA and your state and  federal representatives about the travesty that is aspartame	1999-01-24
US	52965795	R1A4U1IBXUO9PS	1560983167	135398983	Deliberate Speed: The Origins of a Cultural Style in the American 1950s	Books	5	4	4	N	N	This is a great book about 50's America and American Culture	Lhamon has a unique view of the American 1950's.  Anyone who is interested in American culture would do well to check out this book.  Even if you have not been specifically interested in the 50's before, if you have an  interest in the literature, popular music, photography, and pop culture of  the last half of the 20th century, you will find the seeds of change  lovingly exposed here in &quot;Deliberate Speed.&quot;	1998-12-13
US	52965795	RUD27J8D7NGA4	0684845164	913297410	Mad Cowboy: Plain Truth from the Cattle Rancher Who Won't Eat Meat	Books	5	9	10	N	Y	If you're the slightest bit curious, it's worth it.	A friend of mine gave me this book to read, and to make sure the author  got paid for all I got out of my borrowed copy, I bought one for a friend.  This book is a real eye opener.  I had never seriously considered myself a  candidate for a meatless diet, but reading this book changed my mind.  Within three days of finishing the book, I started experimenting with  meatless meals, which turned into meatless days, and meatless grocery  shopping trips.  Now I have not had any meat or meat products in four  weeks.  I have not had any real cravings or misgivings.  I do not feel  deprived.  I have lost fifteen pounds without trying or thinking about it.  Highly recommended.	1998-08-23
US	52965795	R2XV840BS3LO7	0764531239	576707117	Windows Architecture I & II McSd Study Guide (McSe Certification Series)	Books	5	0	1	N	Y	Don't Let Certification Changes Scare You Away	Don't let recent changes to Microsoft's certification track for the MCSD scare you away from the this book.  If you bought the book today, and passed the tests 3 to 4 weeks from now, the tests would count towards an MCSD for  another 17 months.  Of course, you'll have to take three more tests next year to satisfy the new track, but you have to decide how soon you want your MCSD to be in force.<br />For the record, I have not yet read the book, but changes to the MCSD are not alone a good enough reason to avoid this book.<br />Dan Read	1998-07-01
