US	52961873	RH2N5BSNW3DU5	0767916883	27906002	Born Fighting: How the Scots-Irish Shaped America	Books	5	15	16	N	N	Indispensable Book to Understanding American Culture	This is an excellent book, one of those rare historical books  you don't want to put down. The author uses the lively writing style of his highly acclaimed novels to develop a historical theme: the history of the Scots-Irish as they migrated from Scotland to Ireland to the U.S, from ancient Roman times to the present. While professional historians may quibble about a few points (I'm not a historian but I constantly read history), Mr. Webb has done his homework and got the big picture of the Scots-Irish story right. The theme is that the Scots-Irish are and have since the 18th Century been a major formative player in U.S. history and culture. Their cultural stress on personal independence has prevented their organizing as an interest group to emphasize their role, thus their story is not widely known and their influence on contemporary culture and politics largely overlooked. Mr. Webb enlivens the general story of the Scots-Irish by telling stories of his ancestors going back for generations, and of his own memories of growing up. I found the book especially interesting because to me it is the history of my own cousins: as an Irish Catholic American I see many similarities to my own ancestral traditions and culture.  While our religion and immigration patterns were different, there are many similarities of temperament, historical experience with the British and early American British culture, and cultural tendencies such as a martial spirit. The Irish as well as the Scots-Irish were born fighting, and I imagine a geneticist would find the two groups' blood lines virtually indistinguishable. I enjoyed reading the fact that one of the main groups that formed the Scots were the Scotti, who migrated from Ireland.  (I teased my wife that I would call this review \\"How the Irish invented the Scots,\\" a spinoff on another book on the completely disproportional contribution of the Scots to the modern world.)  This book is indispensable to understanding American culture and politics. Scots-Irish cultural influence permeates American society, but in a subterranean way that few recognize and politicians ignore at their peril. Such an important theme, combined with such a lively and personal style, make Born Fighting a must read.  <br />	2005-01-29
US	52961873	RCXKH8GHULN5J	0806513500	315215881	The 100: A Ranking Of The Most Influential Persons In History	Books	1	18	38	N	N	JFK and not Lincoln and FDR?	It would help if such a historical list were written by a historian.  Mr. Hart's degrees are in science, and his bias toward scientists in the list is overwhelming. He lists JFK because of his starting the mission to the moon. Certainly Lincoln, FDR, Teddy Roosevelt, Truman, and Reagan would rank as more influential U.S. presidents.  And Madison as Father of the Constitution and the U.S. government has certainly had significant and long-lasting influence given the number of democracies in the world today.  The effort to create such a list is certainly interesting, everyone will have different opinions, and the discussion promotes historical learning which is in such short supply today. But it would be better for an accomplished historian to create such a list rather than an author so taken up with scientific efforts to the detriment of other areas of human achievement.	2004-09-25
US	52961873	R18P8OXVBSAFUL	0306811677	17462845	The Bedford Boys: One American Town's Ultimate D-day Sacrifice	Books	5	12	12	N	N	Story of the Town that Suffered the Greated D-Day Burden	Rural Bedford, Virginia, suffered the highest per capita D-Day casualty rate of any American town.  Nineteen of its residents, or residents of Bedford County, in which the town is located, were killed at bloody Omaha Beach on that longest day, the first day of the Allied Normandy invasion. Three more residents were killed within the next few days. These Bedford soldiers were members of Company A, 116th Infantry Regiment, 29th Infantry Division--the first troops to go ashore on H-Hour at Omaha Beach. The book is well written, a balance of contextualizing historical narrative and oral history of survivors and relatives. This work is not a history of D-Day, nor of the Omaha Beach attack, nor of the Normandy campaign--nor is it designed to be, there are other books which deal with these larger topics. Rather the author skillfully narrates the story of the Bedford boys who joined the National Guard during the Depression to earn a few extra dollars, were called into federal service and endured extended training in the U.S. before deployment to England for the invasion of France.  The author portrays an emotionally compelling story of the devastating effects of the loss of so many sons, husbands, lovers, and fellow soldiers by the people of Bedford, reminding us both of the horror of war, its brutal and lasting effects, as well as the unfortunate fact that at times it may be necessary for the liberation of the oppressed and the preservation of freedom.  Anne Frank, whose family in hiding learned of D-Day by their radio, entered in her diary that &quot;the best part of the invasion is that I have the feeling that friends are approaching.&quot; (Bedford Boys, page 170) Today Bedford is the home of the National D-Day Memorial, a site well worth visiting, as is the National D-Day Museum in New Orleans.  The valor and sacrifice of those young men who perished so quickly in the massive D-Day invasion cries out to be remembered by every generation of Americans and citizens of thefree world--especially since soon there will be no living survivors of D-Day, with the death each day of thousands of World War II veterans. This book, this D-Day Memorial, this D-Day Museum, and the lives of these brave young men and their families from rural Virginia, deserve a remembrance wherever that perpetual vigilance which is the price of liberty is honored. It was Erwin Rommel who called D-Day the longest day. And it is this day, and every day in which great sacrifices are made for freedom, from the American Revolution to soldiers today bravely defending freedom around the world, that deserves the longest of memories.	2003-12-29
US	52961873	R1TLS8I8P2APX0	0375400532	116719555	Intelligence in War: Knowledge of the Enemy from Napoleon to Al-Qaeda	Books	5	20	21	N	N	Foremost Military Historian Critiques Role of Intelligence	Sir John Keegan, the world's foremost living military historian, has written a book which thoroughly examines the role of intelligence in warfare, reaching a conclusion that is sure to tick off the intelligence community: even the best military intelligence on an enemy's forces and plans is secondary to having adequate military forces and planning with which to defeat the enemy.  Keegan gives a number of case studies, including the World War II submarine Battle of the Atlantic, Stonewall Jackson's 1862 Shenandoah Valley campaign, Admiral Nelson's hunt for the French fleet in the Mediterranean, and the battle of Crete, to show the effect of various degrees of knowledge of the enemy's forces and plans on the outcome of battle. The battle of Crete contributes most to Keegan's conclusion on the usefulness of military intelligence: the commander had a high degree of knowledge of German forces and plans for the batttle, so much so that when the first German paratroopers began to land while he was eating breakfast, he looked up and said: &quot;they're on time.&quot; Yet the British lost this battle despite this high degree of foreknowledge of the German invasion plans. Keegan would not deny the importance of military intelligence in future military operations. With the satellite intelligence and codebreaking available today, much can be learned about enemy forces. However despite this foreknowledge, the intention of the potential enemy's command structure can still be unknown: witness the beginning of the first Iraq War, when Iraqi forces were massing on the Kuwait border, yet U.S. intelligence did not believe Saddam would cross the border and invade Kuwait.  Technological intelligence capabilities have been overemphasized by the U.S. intelligence community since Carter's Stansfield Turner headed the CIA, to the detriment of even more valuable human intelligence. Keegan's book, as all his books, reaches a reasoned balance: good intelligence is vital, but ultimately the outcome of military conflicts is determined by the skillful deployment of superior military forces--superior not necessarily in numbers, but in training, tactics, weaponry, and most of all, fighting spirit and leadership. Keegan has produced another masterpiece, which all military historians and commanders, and historians of the mysterious arts of espionage, must read--and heed, to their peril if they do not.	2003-12-28
US	52961873	R2QCKXNED1VQYQ	0060088753	548009459	Combat Jump: The Young Men Who Led the Assault into Fortress Europe, July 1943	Books	5	12	13	N	N	Well-told Story of the First Major U.S. Airborne Battle	I've been fascinated by paratroopers since watching Band of Brothers on HBO and reading the late Stephen Ambrose's book that inspired this series. During one of the episodes of Band of Brothers, as the 101st Airborne is headed for Bastogne during the Battle of the Bulge, while the regular infantry is hightailing it to the rear, one of the members of Easy company explains why they're headed toward the sound of the guns when American forces are on the way to being surrounded: &quot;paratroopers are always surrounded.&quot; My own terror in jumping from the parachute tower at Fort Benning also feeds my respect for paratroopers: they are among the best troops the U.S. produces. Combat Jump tells you why: the rigorous physical training, far more demanding than regular soldiers; the fighting spirit often manifest in rebellious trouble-making prior to deploying, and disdain for Army regulations and routine. Airborne history tends to focus on the later jump on D-Day. This book gives the scoop on the first major U.S. deployment of airborne, when the concept of using entire divisions of paratroopers was still in doubt.  The author has done his research homework, yet tells a lively story of the personalities such as Colonel Jim Gavin, commander of the unit responsible for capturing a key crossroads to protect the regular Army's beach landings in Operation Husky, the invasion of Sicily. Few books focus on the airborne in this particular battle. It is entirely appropriate that airborne forces have such an outstanding reputation. This book tells  the reader why, even from the initial use of mass formations of paratroopers, such a reputation is well deserved.	2003-12-28
US	52961873	RYX0EOFRTONT2	069111532X	149719705	The Journey of Man: A Genetic Odyssey	Books	5	34	36	N	N	Fascinating History of Mankind Revealed by Genetics	I first heard the author speak at the Smithsonian on the genetic odyssey of mankind, in the best talk I've ever heard, and I go to many talks every year. Then I read the book and watched the two-hour PBS presentation by the same title. The author does a great service by summarizing much scholarship in genetics, archaeology, and linguistics, to paint a family portrait of the human race based on analysis of the Y chromosomes of peoples all over the world--an intriguing story, well told and accessible to the non-specialist, if not the general reader with a minimal background in college biology and biochemistry.  The author's sense of humor adds to the delightful tale of mankind's journey. This is the most interesting book I've read since Jared Diamond's best seller, &quot;Guns, Germs, and Steel,&quot; and encourages me to read more books in this area. Dr. Wells, who refers to himself in the PBS show as a &quot;lab rat,&quot; has done a great service both to his field and to the public by sharing the results of detailed and laborious scientific research with the larger human race whose ancestors are the subject of this fascinating history.	2003-11-28
US	52961873	RLTIG085JIRMB	0195152433	617503158	Kennedy's Wars: Berlin, Cuba, Laos, and Vietnam	Books	5	15	16	N	N	Well Researched Objective History of Kennedy as Cold Warrior	Sir Lawrence Freedman has been Professor of War Studies at King's College, London, since 1982 and is an outstanding researcher and writer.  This book is a very scholarly look at President Kennedy's performance in four hot spots of the Cold War: Berlin, Cuba, Laos, and Vietnam.  It's must reading for anyone who wants to understand Kennedy's approach to crisis management, also for those who think that Kennedy would have kept the Vietnam War from being an American war--that is, with Lyndon Johnson's later deployment of large numbers of American ground troops. Unlike the recent book Death of a Generation, by Howard Jones, which argues that Kennedy would never have turned Vietnam into an American war, Freedman's view is that we can't know what Kennedy would have done in 1965 when the government of Vietnam was on the brink of being defeated by a stepped-up Viet Cong insurgency.  The situation in Vietnam during the years 1961 to 1963, covered by this book, was very different from that in 1965, when U.S. choices were very limited: basically either insert significant numbers of U.S. troops, or see South Vietnam fall to the communists, an unacceptable outcome for any American president at that time. The South Vietnames army was weak, and U.S. air power alone, used both in North and South Vietnam, could not alone have turned the tide (airpower never does, though today it has become an increasingly significant key to victory).  Sir Lawrence has researched thousands of documents, summaries of administration meetings, and state department cables.  His views are both documented and balanced. No one studying this period in U.S. and world history, and conflicts in Berlin, Cuba, Laos, and Vietnam, can do without reading this first-rate book.	2003-11-10
US	52961873	REZ9ZKBZ4GKTT	0195052862	774234525	Death of a Generation: How the Assassinations of Diem and JFK Prolonged the Vietnam War	Books	4	24	26	N	N	Thoroughly Researched History but Questionable Conclusion	The author has done his homework by thoroughly researching primary and secondary sources on President Kennedy's Vietnam policy from 1961 through 1963.  Kennedy had always maintained, going back to his election as senator in 1956, that the Vietnam conflict could only be won or lost by the Vietnamese themselves, and that the U.S. could not fight the war for them. He continued with this view as President, even though many political and military advisers urged him to send in significant U.S. troops.  While he did increase the number of advisers, who sometimes assisted the South Vietnamese in battle, he never favored deploying significant ground forces. Also, Kennedy had a plan to eventually withdraw what U.S. troops were in country as the Army of the Republic of Vietnam (ARVN) became more capable. Even in 1963 1,000 U.S. troops were withdrawn.  The author's main position is that Kennedy would never have turned the war into an American war, with a huge deployment of U.S. forces, the way Lyndon Johnson did starting in 1965.  Thus the death of a generation of young Americans (over 57,000), and many more times that number of Vietnamese, as well as the spiritual death of a generation of Americans who never again trusted their government and turned to self-destructive behavior in the drug culture, could have been avoided. This is an interesting thesis, but essentially unknowable. Hanoi significantly built up Viet Cong military capability in 1964 and 1965.  The coup overthrowing Diem, which the Kennedy administration supported(though no Americans were involved in its execution) resulted in a series of ineffectual political leaders who were no better at political and economic reforms, or at leading the fight against the Viet Cong, than Diem was. Had Kennedy not been assassinated, had he been reelected in 1964, would he really have been able to totally withdraw from Vietnam and be tagged with another global loss to Communism, as the Democrats where in 1950 with the loss of China? The politics of 1965, both Republican and Democrat, strongly supported U.S. assistance to South Vietnam, even the deployment of significant U.S. ground troops. The author's basic position, then, that Kennedy would have avoided the death of a generation, is highly questionable.<br />Nevertheless the book is well worth reading and is a must for anyone interested in Kennedy's Vietnam policy or the buildup to the Vietnam War.  One interesting story relates how the intriguing Edward Lansdale told McNamara his statistical measures for judging progress in fighting the Viet Cong insurgency were all wet because he was measuring many factors which weren't getting to the heart of the issue. An intriguing what if of this period is: what if Lansdale had been more involved in forming U.S. policy on Vietnam? At the time he was assigned to Operation Mongoose, the program of covert action against Cuba.<br />In the novel \\"Intruders in the Dust,\\" Faulkner describes how in Southerners' hearts it will always be July 3, 1863, at the moment before Pickett's charge at Gettysburg, the high tide of the Confederacy before the devastating loss that day set the South on the road to ultimate defeat.  Similarly, in the American heart, even for those who aren't Kennedy fans, there will always be a wish that the bullets in Dallas would have missed, that a young president who inspired hope in so many citizens would have somehow been able to avoid one of our great national tragedies by avoiding the massive bloodshed and societal chaos resulting from the Vietnam War.  Like the thesis of this book, we'll never know if that could have happened, but such a wish is a natural longing of the human heart.	2003-08-17
US	52961873	R2WN24ENUAYC2I	0679411585	502570587	We Were Soldiers Once...And Young: Ia Drang The Battle That Changed the War in Vietnam	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Outstanding Oral History of the 1st Big U.S. Vietnam Battle!	For those who enjoy military history, or want to read a few of the most significant books on the Vietnam war, this book is a must.  While newcomers to the topic should start with a more general history of the war, such as Stanley Karnow's &quot;Vietnam,&quot; this book, along with Neil Sheehan's &quot;A Bright and Shining Lie,&quot; will always be one of the classics on this war.  The book vividly tells the story of two very bloody battles in the Ia Drang valley, Pleiku province, in 1965: at Landing Zone (LZ) X-ray and, a few days later, at LZ Albany.  Lt. Gen. Hal Moore, commander at LZ X-Ray (then a Lt. Col.), and reporter Joe Galloway, who lived through the horror of that battle, aptly describe the chaos of battle in the war's first major encounter between U.S. troops and the North Vietnamese regular army.  The authors recount oral recollections of survivors.  The book also describes the background of the war, the preparation of the 7th Cav as a new type of unit--air mobile by helicopter--and the mismanagement of the Johnson administration in so many ways: the loss of experienced personnel by the one-year assignment practice, the six month limit on battalion and brigade commanders, and allowing the enemy sanctuary in Cambodia. One of the strongest points of the book is its strong and moving sense of the cost of war to individuals and families:  Hal Moore, besides being a top-knotch commander, is a true human being who felt deeply the loss of each of his men, over the years visiting their families and weeping at the graves of his fallen soldiers. This book is a battle history which does not glorify war, but shows it for the bloody, heart-wrenching chaos it is.  It teaches that our nation should be slow to go to war, but when we must, it must be conducted with sound policies and tactics that will bring a swift end to the bloodshed and achieve the political goals of the conflict.  Families today still mourn daily the loss of soldiers from long-ago battles. The priceof war is the highest price human beings can pay.  Yet without at times paying this price, both Americans and other peoples who love political and economic freedom would historically have lived in slavery to one political ideology or another.  The difficult thing for us as a nation collectively is to have the wise judgment to know when and how to fight. This outstanding book teaches us the importance of such wise judgment when it comes to the nightmare of war.	2003-07-26
US	52961873	RIAF2H8FCQDG4	0071368264	746322034	Tracks in the Sea: Matthew Fontaine Maury and the Mapping of the Oceans	Books	5	8	9	N	N	Interesting Life Story of a Neglected American Genius	Maury's life, rising from the humble origins of a farming family in Virginia and then Tennessee, to a career as an internationally renowned scientist, is quite interesting, and generally well told by author Chester Hearn. Most scientists would feel their careers were a success if they made a few contributions to their area of science. Maury's genius invented two whole sciences: oceanography and marine astronomy. He significantly improved navigation by finding &quot;tracks in the sea,&quot; the patterns which numerous currents and winds follow all over the globe. Perhaps because he sided with the Confederacy in the Civil War, he became a relatively obscure figure. Since he had an enduring influence on the human race's knowledge of the oceans, he deserves to be better known. This book will help, and is well worth reading.	2003-03-01
US	52961873	R3FXH2G3QQ97FP	0312273037	583440675	The Two O'Clock War: The 1973 Yom Kippur Conflict and the Airlift That Saved Israel	Books	5	5	9	N	N	Retired USAF Colonel Knows the Scoop on Incredible Airlift!	Retired U.S. Air Force Colonel Walter Boyne's book on the 1973 Arab-Israeli War (AKA the Yom Kippur or October War) is very well written.  He's done his homework, including details on the U.S. airlift that resupplied Israel. The Israelis were arrogant after the 1967 six-day war, believing that no combination of Arab forces could beat them. And for once their highly-rated intelligence services failed them: they were completely surprised by the Egyptian and Syrian attack on their highest holy day. Arab forces also were much better trained and equipped by the Soviets this time round than in previous Arab-Israeli wars.  The result: Arab forces fought much better than in 1967, and were in a position to grind out Israel in a war of attrition Israel could not afford, both in terms of personnel and equipment. The U.S. came to Israel's support, with what the author relates as the second largest airlift ever, second only to the Berlin airlift.  A cornucopia of desperately needed munitions were airlifted by Military Airlift Command, enabling Israel to continue the war, turn the tide against initial Arab advances in the Sinai and the Golan Heights, and eventually force Egypt and Syria to anxiously seek a cease fire.  Boyne is a great story teller, returning to the stories of a number of individuals, U.S, Arab, Israeli, and Soviet, throughout the book.  The political context, especially Egyptian, Israeli, U.S., and Soviet, is well covered. The author excellently tells the story of the 1973 episode in the ongoing saga of Arab-Israeli conflict, and the beginnings of a move toward peace, as after this war Egypt becomes the first Arab state to reach a peace agreement with Israel. Hopefully more Arab states, including a Palestinian state, will make such peace agreements with the Israelis in the future. If they do, the 1973 war may be looked upon as the turning point in the Arab-Israeli wars, which began with the 1948 War for Independence.	2003-02-16
US	52961873	R1ATDK8F4GSWK7	0385504713	474925746	Reagan's War: The Epic Story of his Forty Year Struggle and Final Triumph Over Communism	Books	5	8	11	N	N	How Did He Do It?	How did a C student in economics from Eureka College not only predict the fall of the Soviet Union, but largely contributed to make it happen? The author relates that Reagan was asked that question once, and responded that many people thought the Soviet economy was barely functional. He was one of the few that spoke out about it, and loudly.  The liberal perspective is that the Soviet system would have eventually collapsed anyway, that all U.S. presidents since Truman contributed to its demise, and that Gorbachev was really the leading character in its fall. This book shows in great detail why that view is wrong, why Reagan helped create the conditions under which Gorbachev came to power, and why Reagan's policies ushered in the demise of Soviet Union. The only thing missing from this book is the story of Reagan's secret economic warfare against the Soviets by planting unworkable technology into the Soviet research and development effort that caused them to expend many rubles trying to imitate--this story is told in another of the author's books: \\"Victory.\\" Reagan was never a scholar, but did have a native intelligence which allowed him to see what others couldn't, and a courage which allowed him to stick to the convictions he had since his days fighting communist efforts to take over Hollywood unions. The world will owe Ronald Reagan a debt of gratitude for his key role in the demise of a truly evil empires. This book tells you why.	2003-02-11
US	52961873	R3I1QMO2BJ9R6Q	0195151747	846543535	Six Days of War: June 1967 and the Making of the Modern Middle East	Books	4	9	12	N	N	Well Researched History of Israel's Incredibly Swift Victory	Michael Oren's book is a must for anyone who wants to understand the world political context of the Six Day War. The author has researched U.S., Soviet, U.N., Israeli, and Arab archives and documents to show the superpower background of this incredible war. Other books on this war are excellent summaries, but this one specializes in the political context, both within Israel, among the Arab nations, and the international scene.  While the many footnotes and nuanced views may be laborious for the general reader--thus the four of five star rating--those who want to know the full story of one of the swiftest military victories in all of history must read Mr. Oren's account. Especially interesting is the section on the Israeli's mistaken attack on the U.S. reconnaisance ship the Liberty, still a source of contention at times, yet shown decisively here to have been a tragic and unintentional mistake by the Israelis.	2003-02-11
US	52961873	R3UPA7SZNWXFJP	1400031133	782925714	An Autumn of War: What America Learned from September 11 and the War on Terrorism	Books	5	21	28	N	N	Leading Military Historian Foretells Afghan War Outcome!	Dr. Hanson is one of the foremost military historians of our age and a classicist. These essays, written in the Fall of 2001, foretold the outcome of the rapid U.S victory in Afghanistan when most pundits were warning that that mountainous country has been the graveyard of empires and would be a quagmire for the U.S.  The author's knowledge of world military history from ancient times, and his keen insight into human nature gleaned from an unsurpassed knowledge of classic literature, enabled him to exhibit amazing prescience of the rapid defeat of the Taliban.  This, and Dr. Hanson's other books such as \\"Carnage and Culture\\" and \\"The Soul of Battle\\" are well worth reading, as are his continuing essays appearing in National Review Online, The Wall Street Journal, and other periodicals. Perhaps it is not only his erudition that makes the author so wise, for so many learned people were totally wrong in their comments during the aftermath of 9-11. Dr. Hanson grew up on a farm and continues to live on the California farm where he was born.  Farmers have a reputation of being not only close to the earth but close to reality. Perhaps it is the combination of a surpassing knowledge of Western classics, military history, and wise practical experience that makes Dr. Hanson's insights and analysis so compelling. Even those who disagree with his views would have to admit his logic and the points he makes are eloquently stated. This book is influencing thought and action on the war on terrorism--The Washington Post in an October 1992 article on the influence of Vice President Cheney on the Bush administration stated that this book strongly influenced Cheney's thinking, and that Cheney was a powerful influence, among many competing voices, on the President's chosen course of action.	2002-11-22
US	52961873	R38D1W88IJ68FV	0195135210	436402699	Crossroads of Freedom: Antietam (Pivotal Moments in American History)	Books	5	26	28	N	N	Another Masterpiece from the Dean of Civil War Historians!	Dr. McPherson is unmatched in writing highly readable books which at the same time manifest an unparalleled academic knowledge of Civil War sources. This book reads as well as his Pulitzer prize-winning &quot;Battle Cry of Freedom&quot; (the best one volume history of the Civil War), and simultaneously reflects the highest level of expertise. While other books treat the battle of Antietam itself in far greater detail (e.g., &quot;Landscape Turned Red,&quot; by Stephen Sears), no other work goes into such detail on the reaction in Northern, Southern, and European newspapers to the events before and after the battle. The author sets the context for Sharpsburg by reviewing battles leading up to Lee's invasion of the north and the resulting bloodiest day in American history.  The politics of the Confederacy's seeking British recognition, the economics of King Cotton, the politics of slavery and auspicious timing of the Emancipation Proclamation, the mid-term election of 1862--this background and aftermath of the battle are analyzed comprehensively with a thoroughness not found elsewhere. I'm not a historian, but a serious buff who has read hundreds of Civil War books. There are only two authors on the recent unpleasantness whose books I haven't been able to put down once opening the cover.  One is Bruce Catton, who captured the romanticism of the common soldier; the other is James McPherson, who writes clear, succint prose reflecting the deepest levels of scholarship. After Battle Cry of Freedom, this book is his best work, and is a must for readers who want to understand the social and political context of this most intensely violent of American battles.	2002-11-12
US	52961873	R2L4XMY4FQ17J9	0803220057	470627790	Grant's Secret Service: The Intelligence War from Belmont to Appomattox	Books	4	15	15	N	N	Author Knows His Stuff, But Text is Compilation of Articles	William Feis knows what he is talking about--his doctoral dissertation was on this topic, and it is the most thorough monograph on Grant's use of military intelligence--known at the time as \\"secret service.\\"  The author shows an evolution in Grant's thinking and practice from early in the war through its final days.  Grant was by nature aggressive--he was only supposed to demonstrate against the Confederate camp at Belmont, for example, and ended up attacking it. He felt that taking the initiative in battle made up for a lack of intelligence information--make the enemy wonder what you are doing rather than being too concerned about the enemy's situation. But later in the war, after Jubal Early's troops got away from the defenses of Richmond in 1864 without Grant's knowing, and went all the way up the Shenandoah to threaten Washington, Grant realized the importance of intelligence and beefed up his capability.  While this book is a contribution to our understanding of Grant's views and practice of intelligence, the text is somewhat choppy, as are many books that are a collection of previously published articles. Other books on military intelligence, such as \\"The Secret War for the Union,\\" would best be read prior to this one. However, despite it's limitations in scope and style, this book is well researched and is certainly worth reading.	2002-10-01
US	52961873	RM7N4KBOT8RXF	0679749896	269467708	Sherman: A Soldier's Passion for Order	Books	5	17	20	N	N	Well researched, readable bio of a complex person.	Marszalek has studied Sherman for years, and his biography reflects a comprehensive knowledge of the sources on Sherman. Sherman was a highly complex and intelligent person, fourth academically in his class at West point, though a prankish student who finished sixth in his overall graduating class because of demerits. If you don't know much about Sherman, if you only know he said war is hell and marched through Georgia, this is a good book for you. Sherman's army assignments before the Civil War were mostly in the South, and he loved it, but he hated secession, though he did not oppose slavery. Under Grant's wing he became an excellent general. He believed in a hard war but a soft peace, and opposed the conduct of reconstruction after the war. The only reservation I have is the author may overpsychologize his approach to Sherman: the passion for order theme runs throughout the book. But the book's quality is saved by the mountain of details the author relates about Sherman's life and other's views of him, and by a highly readable writing style. As one of the most important generals in the Civil War and in the history of the U.S. Army, and an important influence on modern concepts of total war, William Tecumseh Sherman (aka \\"Cump\\") is well deserving of study, and this biography is well worth reading.	2002-09-13
US	52961873	R1NHV2ILBVAYFQ	0679447660	696465736	Ulysses S. Grant:: Soldier & President	Books	5	9	12	N	N	Biography by American Military Historian Adds Perspective!	Geoffrey Perret's previous work, &quot;A Country Made By War,&quot; which is a general military history of the United States, gives him the background to put the military career of Grant in perspective. He worked closely with the editor of Grant's papers to acquire the background to write this biography. His short chapters don't go into great details on individual battles, but capture well the development of Grant's personality, generalship, and presidency. J.F.C. Fuller's &quot;Grant and Lee&quot; and &quot;The Generalship of Ulysses S. Grant&quot; go into greater detail in analyzing the military strategy, strengths and weaknesses, of Grant's command both in the Western and Eastern theaters. But Perret's book is well worth reading. He captures the spirit of Grant well.	2002-08-28
US	52961873	RQ7UY9KIDMSLP	0253134005	489078778	Grant & Lee: A Study in Personality and Generalship (Midland Bks: No. 288)	Books	5	42	44	N	N	Outstanding Analysis by the Clausewitz of the 20th Century!	The oft-repeated view, especially from Confederate defenders, is that Grant won though he was a drunken butcher indifferent to high casualties whose triumph was inevitable because of superior manpower and supplies. John Frederick Charles Fuller, the British Major General, and along with Liddel Hart one of the top military strategists of the 20th century, provides overwhelming evidence to lay this view to rest. Grant practiced maneuver warfare when he could, and his Vicksburg campaign (not just a siege, rather a series of five battles), along with Jackson's valley campaign, are the two greatest campaigns of the war. In his final Overland campaign, Grant could not maneuver much because Lincoln required that he keep substantial forces between Lee's army and Washington. By a thorough analysis of Grant's and Lee's battles throughout the war, Fuller makes the case that Grant was among the best generals ever, and greater than Lee, who was also great but had his limitations (after Order 191 was lost and recovered by McClellan's troops before Antietam, Lee would only issue oral orders, and his subordinates were often confused by them; Grant was known for crystal clear written orders, following the example of Zachary Taylor under whom Grant (and Lee) had served in the Mexican War). Rating Grant so highly will of course be heresy for neo-Confederates, but there is no question Grant has received unfair treatment even among historians. Another Fuller book, \\"The Generalship of Ulysses S. Grant\\" adds more details to the defense of the claim that Grant was an excellent general. In assessing the relative greatness of Grant and Lee, one should keep in mind their age difference and the difference in upward mobility on the two sides during the war. Lee was 14 years older than Grant, Lee was already a Colonel when the war started and still serving on active duty, whereas Grant had left the army as a captain after the Mexican War. At the start of the war, Winfield Scott, who had served in the War of 1812 and masterminded in the Mexican War the amazing defeat of a country of 20 million people with 12,000 invading troops, was the greatest soldier on either side. However he was old and so fat he could no longer ride a horse; his campaigning days were over. After Scott, Lee was the best soldier on either side at the start of the war--and Lee was offered command of the Union army but turned it down. However Grant rose through the ranks because he learned quickly from his mistakes at Belmont, Forts Henry and Donelson, Shiloh, and Holly Springs. By the end of the war Fuller's analysis shows Grant was clearly the superior general, and not just because he had superior numbers. Even the oft-cited mistake at Cold Harbor, according to Fuller, is exagerrated. Fuller summarizes the overall casualy numbers during the war: the ratio of killed and wounded to total forces engaged for Grant was 10%; for the whole Federal army it was 11%; for the whole Confederate army it was 12%; and for Lee, it was 16%. One must be fair to Lee and not lose sight of the fact that he was an exemplary, even a saintly individual who must always be acknowledged as among the great American generals. But the simplistic, grossly unfair judgment of Ulysses S. Grant is revealed here as a sham which must stop. Under the razor-sharp and penetrating analysis of Fuller, one of the greatest military historians of all time, the conventional, common opinion of Grant is shown to be balderdash. Ulysses S. Grant was one of the greatest generals the U.S. has ever produced. Though written many years ago, Fuller's book is still relevant to this ongoing national discussion, and is a must read for anyone who wants to compare Union and Confederate generalship. Regarding Grant's drinking, Fuller doesn't discuss this, but this too is greatly exaggerated. He was indeed a binge drinker. When I asked the renowned Civil War historian Ed Bearss about this, he said Grant got drunk about four to six times during thewar, always when he was away from his wife (she was with or lived near him during some campaigns and he was always lonely without her). Moreover, in the Civil War one could usually tell when battle was near, and there was usually inactivity during the winter months. The circumstances are not comparable to a modern general's always being on call in the nuclear age. Grant's occasional binge drinking never once affected his generalship, in public functions he usually would not drink at all, being a semi-recovered alcoholic except for the occasional binge. The stereotype is that Grant was constantly drunk during the war. This too is an unfair assessment not based on historical fact. Read this book and will see just how wrong the stereotype of Grant's generalship is, and how good a general he was.	2002-08-24
US	52961873	R1F82QYCO65EE8	0700608095	115004032	The Cause Lost: Myths and Realities of the Confederacy	Books	5	20	20	N	N	Excellent Thoughts on Civil War Basics, Mainly Confederate	William C. (Jack) Davis is a prolific author on the Civil War whose books (and talks) are both extremely well-researched and entertaining. He would be on anyone's short list of the best Civil War historians, and is the History Book Club's reviewer for new Civil War books. His books specialize on the Confederate side of the recent unpleasantness between the states. Like his other books, this one is well worth reading for his illuminating insight into topics such as the relationship of Jefferson Davis to his generals, especially Lee, Johnston, Beauregard, Jackson, and Breckinridge; the Confederate secret service and the 1864 U.S. presidential election; and the reasons behind the development of the post-Confederate philosophy known as the Lost Cause. Only one chapter deals with the lost cause--for a detailed book on the lost cause, read Gary Gallagher and Alan Nolan's &quot;The Myth of the Lost Cause and Civil War History.&quot; But Davis's Cause Lost is a must read for anyone interested in the Civil War.	2002-08-08
US	52961873	R2UP5AWIM63W00	0807826367	253448554	The Free State of Jones: Mississippi's Longest Civil War	Books	4	58	62	N	N	Well Researched History of the &quot;Republic&quot; of Jones	I have always wondered exactly what happened in Jones County, Mississippi, during the recent unpleasantness, and after reading The Free State of Jones, now I know. Often billed as the county that seceded from the Confederacy, the author provides an excellent local history of Southwest Mississippi from the early 1800s to the dawn of the Civil Rights movement. The author begins with the immigrants to Mississippi territory, mainly from the Carolinas. Excellent maps of migration routes and the early counties in the Carolinas, Georgia, Alabama, and Mississippi are included. During the Civil War, a band of 100 or so deserters from Confederate military service hid in Jones County, where the soil did not promote large commercial planting, and few individuals owned slaves. While there was never a formal act of secession from the Confederacy by the county government of Jones, the band of deserters did fight fourteen skirmishes with Confederate troops between 1863 and 1865, and many locals were sympathethic, either because they were relatives, they didn't like the relatively strong central Confederate government, or Confederate troops misbehaved by stealing from their small farms. Many of the band deserted because the felt the war was &quot;a rich man's war and a poor man's fight&quot;--especially after the &quot;20 Negro Law&quot; was passed exempting slaveowners with 20 or more slaves from Confederate military service. The author also goes into the mixed racial family of the leader of the band of deserters, Newt Knight, who survived until 1922. There are few places to read the details of this interesting micro-history within the Confederacy. Ms. Bynum's thoroughly researched book encompasses the whole story, and is worth the effort of delving into such a detailed local history.	2002-08-06
US	52961873	R2E3B8VIECAVD9	0670872822	356377311	American Colonies (Penguin History of the United States)	Books	5	2	4	N	N	Outstanding New Perspective on the American Colonies!	Alan Taylor has written a magnificent, fresh overview of the history of American colonies--the plural is intentional because he treats not just the thirteen colonies, but the Spanish, French, Russian, and other English colonies like Nova Scotia and Barbados. The author achieves a balance from the anti-colonial bashing of some current historical writing--while giving an accurate picture of  the terrible effects of colonization on native peoples and African slaves, he gives the colonists their due as tamers of demanding environments and founders of a New World. For anyone looking for a broader picture of the colonization process, this is the book to read. The first in a series of Penguin histories of the U.S., this excellent book bodes well for the volumes to come!	2002-08-06
US	52961873	R140AKQ0TP9Z7A	0743230493	5817625	Supreme Command: Soldiers, Statesmen, and Leadership in Wartime	Books	5	62	68	N	N	Vietnam Fog Continues to Lift	This well researched book will have an impact on civilian-military relations as long-lasting as Samuel Huntington's \\"Soldier and the State,\\" published fifty years ago but still a landmark.  The author examines four examples of excellent democratic leadership of the military during wartime: Lincoln, Clemenceau, Churchill, and Ben-Gurion. These four break the current \\"normal theory of civil-military relations,\\" which holds that civilian leaders should set political goals and leave the details of implementation to the neutral competence of military professionals. The \\"normal theory\\" is currently the predominant orthodoxy: Lyndon Johnson meddled in Vietnam military matters, irretrievably messing up that effort; George H.W. Bush set the goals in the Persian Gulf and left the military unimpeded to execute policy. The four supreme commanders Cohen expounds upon break the current orthodoxy: they were deeply involved in military matters, Churchill to the point of driving his generals nuts with questions about the details of operations. If anything, the author argues, Lyndon Johnson was not involved enough, failing to question Westmoreland's attrition strategy. Cohen's books will have significant impact and will be debated in U.S. war colleges for years to come. He significantly contributes to the quality of the debate on civil-military relations. He also brings new life to the question: what exactly is the military profession? Huntington and the traditional definition describe it as the management of violence for political ends. Yet many military work their entire careers in support fields which aren't directly related to combat, and even military who spend their entire careers in combat forces often are only in combat a small percentage of their service time. Cohen's discussion on this topic of the essence of the military profession will start a new and much-needed debate on this topic. There are a dozen or so typesetting errors in this edition which confuse the reader. Butthe big picture is that it's a stellar performance which will impact discussion on the role of the soldier and the statesman for years to come, and is a must read for anyone interested in military affairs, the Civil War, World War II, Vietnam, the Persian Gulf War, and the future of the civilian-military relationship. As one person commented, if he could recommend one book for President George W. Bush to read in the current terrorist war crisis, this would be it. Trying to save on my book-buying, I read my public library's copy of this book. Then I bought my own copy because it will be a classic referred to again and again in future debates.	2002-07-27
US	52961873	R3GJW5TNN9JVEB	047139209X	986944551	Aaron Burr :  Conspiracy to Treason	Books	5	11	11	N	N	Extremely Well Written Story of Burr's Mysterious Plot	Exactly what Burr was up to in his plans for the West will never be perfectly known. Many of his associates destroyed documents because of Burr's trial for treason--the trial of the century involving a Who's Who in the U.S. during the early 19th century. As the author quotes (from William Whichard) \\"history is only the recorded part of the remembered part of the observed part of what happened.\\" (page 235) Yet public opinion in his time overwhelmingly concluded that Burr, the slayer of Alexander Hamilton, was up to no good. The author wrote this book as a reminder: \\"...if we are to govern ourselves, we must remember the danger of a brilliant mind driven by frail human needs.\\" (page 236) This book, an excellently written summary of Burr's life much aided by the author's legal expertise, is a call to citizen vigilance against future threats to liberty by brilliant politicians whose motives are far from noble. In the latter half of the 20th Century Americans witnessed such scoundrels in both parties.  The author will have achieved his purpose only if we continue to be vigilant by recognizing in our national political choices what Aristotle said long ago: character is destiny.	2002-07-19
US	52961873	R32NYNZNO90OTW	0813917735	380577738	Bound Away: Virginia and the Westward Movement	Books	5	35	37	N	N	Outstanding history of migration to, within, &amp; from Virginia	A fascinating history of migration to, within, and from Virginia, the Old Dominion. The &quot;to&quot; begins with the English colonization at Roanoke (the lost colony) and Jamestown.  &quot;Within&quot; is movement of colonists to various parts of the region, including the tidewater, piedmont, southside, northern neck, and &quot;the valley&quot; (Shenandoah).  And &quot;from&quot; is the movement of Virginians to all parts of the country, south, north, but mainly west.  What happened to Virginia, the most populous and prosperous of states during the early U.S. Republic?  Why the decline after four of the first five presidents were Virginians (Washington, Jefferson, Madison, Monroe)?  Part of the reason was a great migration west, both northwest and southwest.  Why? The land was depleted from generations of farming, and there wasn't enough land for the growing population. But Virginia's emigrants and their descendants had great impacts on other territories and U.S. history:  Daniel Boone and Simon Kenton, William Henry Harrison and Zachary Taylor, Stephen Austin and Sam Houston.  The authors use Turner's theory of the frontier as the backdrop for a vivid portrayal of Virginia and U.S. history.  One weakness is a section of name-dropping about now unknown families who migrated west. Other than that, a lively story recommended for those interested in Virginia and U.S. history. Plenty of pictures and maps--the book accompanied an exhibit at the Virginia Historical Society in Richmond.	2000-10-15
US	52961873	RG49W8J63BR1L	0393048187	452127514	Reflections on a Ravaged Century	Books	5	8	11	N	N	Excellent Analysis of Totalitarianism	This book is a pleasure to read: Conquest's fluid writing style absorbs the reader's attention.  One of the heavyweight historians of the 20th century, his analysis of the nightmare utopias of communism and Nazism is  unparallelled. As the century ends, no book better reflects on its dark  side, and yet holds out the promise of cultural renewal and the fostering  of democratic values.	2000-01-08
US	52961873	R2KEZ3Z824AQUB	1574881795	325542483	Thunderbolt: General Creighton Abrams and the Army of His Times (Association of the United States Army)	Books	5	15	16	N	N	Excellent biography of one of our nation's best soldiers!	Creighton Abrams is one of the best soldiers of the American Century, perhaps ranking only behind George C. Marshall in selfless devotion to soldiering.  Lewis Sorley's Thunderbolt is both thoroughly researched and  well written.  Abrams was a true man of virtue, and an inspiration to all  who served with him and under his command.  I was lead to this book by  Sorley's more recent book, A Better War, which focuses more specifically on  Abrams's Vietnam years.  Anyone who believes that Army values of duty,  honor, and country have been corrupted by 20th Century experience should  read this objective tribute to a truly great man of humble origins whose  tank column liberated Bastogne during the Battle of the Bulge and who  eventually rose to be Chief of Staff of the Army.  A biography well worth  reading.	1999-09-10
US	52961873	RQ9RSHBZDFH5T	0151002665	251438884	A Better War: The Unexamined Victories and Final Tragedy of America's Last Years in Vietnam	Books	5	16	18	N	N	Required Reading for Both Pro- and Anti-War Advocates!	The fact that Sorley's reviewers are so strongly pro or con must mean he's on to something.  I'm not an expert, but have read many books on Vietnam, including both of McNamara's. This book differs from the great majority of  Vietnam books by concentrating on the later years of the war.  Sorley's  assertion that by 1972 90-some percent of the countryside was under RVN  control is a key point of the book.  I look forward to the judgment of  other scholars on this point.  But no matter how much RVN controlled, the  most important point Sorley makes is undisputable:  the U.S. abandoned  South Vietnam after the Paris Accords, breaking promises that we would  continue to support them with funding and air power.  It is not a proud  moment in American history.  Sorley's book will be debated for years to  come, and, regardless of which &quot;side&quot; you may be on in the  ongoing debate, is a must read.	1999-08-03
US	52961873	R2V6K6DXICYR3G	1574881760	964685624	Edward Lansdale: The Unquiet American	Books	5	21	29	N	N	Finally, A Fair Treatment of a Fascinating Life!	William Colby, the late Director of Central Intelligence, rated Edward Lansdale as one of the ten greatest spies in modern history. Edward Geary Lansdale was indeed a most unusual character: regarded as a maverick by many in the U.S. Defense and State Departments, yet greatly appreciated and even loved by nationals of the countries in which he spent much of his career: the Philippines and South Vietnam. Rising to the rank of major general in the Air Force, Lansdale worked his entire career in either military intelligence, psychological warfare, or special operations, with the O.S.S., C.I.A., and DoD. Lansdale's most successful efforts were in the Phillipines in the late 40's and early 50's, helping defeat the communist insurgents (Huks) and establish democratic reforms. In &quot;Bright Shining Lie&quot; Neil Sheehan called Lansdale the &quot;father of South Vietnam,&quot; and this is largely true. But despite two long assignments in country (1954-57 and 1965-68) not even the legendary Lansdale could stabilize South Vietnam, largely because senior U.S. leaders would not support his ideas. Lansdale was against the predominant U.S. &quot;big battle&quot; strategy, but rather believed the fight was a &quot;people's war&quot; which required working with villagers to help them defend themselves. This is the strategy Andrew Krepenivich espoused in &quot;The Army and Vietnam.&quot; Lansdale believed that helping nationals fight a people's war was a form of brotherly love, inspired by the Founding Fathers' concepts of respect for the rights of individuals. He felt an important way to learn Asians' culture was to learn their folk songs (always playing along on his harmonica) and to let them know that Americans accepted them as equals. In the long anti-Vietnam period after U.S. withdrawal in 1973, Lansdale has often been unfairly maligned. This book finally gives him a fair treatment, while pointing out criticisms from both the left and the right. Lansdale is a legend, and with good reason. Few people's lives involve the amount of intrigue similar to, for example, the character Reilly, &quot;Ace of Spies,&quot; who worked for British intelligence. To learn about the noble ideals behind American Cold War foreign policy (despite often tragic miscalculations), the fascinating life of Edward Geary Lansdale is an enlightening tale.	1998-07-21
US	52961873	R3JJ5NO8H4XJS5	0679724141	821994534	A Bright Shining Lie: John Paul Vann and America in Vietnam	Books	4	16	18	N	N	A must read for anyone interested in the war in Vietnam!	Sheehan tells the history of the war in Vietnam paralleled by a biography of one of its most colorful figures, the Army Lt. Col. and later civilian pacification leader John Paul Vann. Regardless of where you stand on this most controversial of all America's wars, this book is a must read to understand its background. Sheehan thoroughly researched the story with interviews of many key players. As a young correspondent he spent several years in country. The book raises many fascinating &quot;counterfactual&quot; history questions: what if military and government leaders had listened to Vann's early (1962-1963) assessment of the weaknesses of the South Vietnamese military and the Diem regime? The only weakness of the book is its abrupt ending. After Vann's death in a helicopter crash in 1972, the author fails to analyze later events including the withdrawal of U.S. troops by 1973 and the fall of South Vietnam in 1975. Writing in 1988, Sheehan should have reflected more on Vann's views and their relation to events that occurred after his death. Nonetheless, a must read for those who want to understand the most divisive war in American history.	1998-07-09
US	52961873	R9X2125ZR9WQ6	0553257994	372934503	The Frontiersmen (Narratives of America series, Book 1)	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Frontier spirit embodied in Simon Kenton and Tecumseh!	Allan Eckert's best!  Eckert, the historical novelist nominated six times for the Pulitzer Prize, reaches the height of his accomplishment.  &quot;The Frontiersman&quot; is Simon Kenton, a Kentucky and Ohio pioneer and friend of Daniel Boone whose wilderness skills perhaps even surpassed Boone's.  Eckert is an unparalled story teller, making his research--as thorough as any historian's--spring to life as he narrates events which make the reader an eyewitness, not only observer, but participant. Besides Kenton's life story, the book has a parallel account of the great Tecumseh, ranking among the very top Indian leaders in American history--a great soul who could predict the future, such as the huge New Madrid earthquake in 1811, eclipses and comets, and even his own death. Tecumseh was a new kind of Chief, speaking perfect English and often visiting white friends; fierce in battle, yet condemning the frequent Indian practice of killing prisoners.  The first of Eckert's &quot;Narratives of America&quot; series (previously called &quot;The Winning of America&quot; series), &quot;The Frontiersman&quot; goes into more detail on Kenton's life than Eckert's more recent &quot;That Dark and Bloody River&quot;--also an excellent work which covers more individuals, such as the legendary ranger Captain Samuel Brady. Eckert's treatment of Tecumseh is naturally not as detailed as in his book &quot;A Sorrow in Our Heart&quot;--dedicated entirely to Tecumseh.  But &quot;The Frontiersman&quot; is Eckert's best overall--an absorbing narrative by the best storyteller of colonial America's frontier.  A must read for American history lovers, or for those interested in the regional histories of Virginia, Kentucky, and Ohio!	1998-03-08
US	52961873	RSQKVG6D0CB1F	0553378651	499414161	That Dark and Bloody River (Historical Fiction)	Books	5	0	1	N	N	Absorbing narrative, excellent research!	You are there--Eckert brings to life the stories of the colonial settlement of Kentucky, Ohio, and western Pennsylvania.  Excellent both as history and story telling.  In the tradition of his Narratives of America 6-volume series, Eckert tells the story from both colonial and Native American perspectives.  A must for readers interested in the westward expansion from Virginia and the settlement of western Pennsylvania, Kentucky, Ohio and the Old Northwest Territory.  However, not for the squeamish--graphic details of frontier violence.	1998-02-17
