US	52963571	R34YN4OR4LUQ2W	0375509038	863073313	The Right Man: The Surprise Presidency of George W. Bush, An Inside Account	Books	4	44	68	N	N	The White House in war and peace	After reading David Frum's The Right Man, I'm a bit at a loss as to what the fuss was all about. Not to ruin the surprise, but all the Bush-critical quotes you've heard are all that you'll find in the book. By and large, the portrait the book paints of the President and those who toil for him is balanced and respectful, and judging by the apoplectic reviews by the \\"Saddam isn't evil, but Ashcroft is\\" contingent, it's annoying all the usual suspects. Good.  <br />In this book, Frum styles himself as a unreconstructed Gingrichite (albeit one largely unmoved by the social issue agenda). Frum supported Bush, not McCain, in the primaries, thus setting him apart from his fellow neoconservatives. But he openly admits he was slow to warm to candidate Bush and his \\"compassionate conservative\\" philosophy.<br />This skepticism is a rising Republican leader isn't a first for Frum. In August 1994, Frum famously published Dead Right, which in its broad outlines proclaimed the conservative movement impotent and the Reagan presidency a failure. This was followed three months later by a 52-seat Republican gain in the House. <br />Not anticipating September 11th and its \\"transformative\\" effect on his new subject is no doubt more forgivable than misjudging the results of a biennial election. Still, Frum's \\"conversion\\" to Bush, the palpable theme of the book, is more grudging than it needs to be. Frum goes into a fair amount of detail about the months before September 11, enough to be reminded of how remote the bite-sized politics of that era feels today. Frum's argument was that Bush wasn't doing especially well in 2001, and that he may have found himself a one-termer based on his performance those first few months. <br />This prediction seems implausible and unnecessarily glum. My judgment then was that Bush did indeed face some stern tests domestically, but the brunt of them would arrive not in 2001 but in 2002 - with ample room for recovery in 2003. As for the charge that little got accomplished in that time, how soon we forget that what we were emerging from: the Clinton era, when virtually nothing got passed in six years. Characteristically, Bush benefited from all the low expectations coming out of the election, when critics pronounced him the functional equivalent of an Italian prime minister whose fractious minority government was near collapse. On this basis, the Washington elite simply assumed he wouldn't bother pushing a big agenda. Their first indication that Bush wasn't playing by the received wisdom was the tax cut, which Bush executed through masterfully - leaving in the dust all the mandarins who predicted in February that no tax cut would ever pass the Senate. Bush's early success seemed like the supreme vindication of the Colin Powell aphorism \\"You don't know what you can get away with until you try.\\" <br />September 11 has enabled Bush to transform the Presidency into something more meaningful than it was throughout all of the 1990s, and it's by this measure that the pre-September 11 period (and by extension the Clinton era) seems impossibly small in comparison. Frum certainly isn't the first to posit this transformation, but a few of his insights into this overanalyzed period are worth exploring further. <br />Perhaps this book's most significant contribution is the author's account of how Bush's views on the wider implications of this conflict for the Islamic world hardened as the fall of 2001 wore on. In those initial few days, the President and everyone around voiced support for Islam as a \\"religion of peace\\" (Frum condemns this tack bitterly, but concedes there was probably no alternative to it). By November, Edward Said nemesis Bernard Lewis was speaking to the White House staff and the notion that Israel's struggle against terror was inextricably linked to Bush's war on terror was gaining currency. In a parallel evolution, Bush lost patience with Arafat and instructed his U.N. Ambassador to insert language condemning byname Arafat's own Al-Aqsa Martyrs Brigade into any new U.N. demand for Israeli withdrawal. <br />During this time, Frum takes great pleasure in wryly quoting conservative war hawks warning about the next Bush \\"wobble.\\" After the magnificent culmination that was the axis of evil speech (yes, there's stuff in there about that, too) and Bush's June 24, 2002 call for new Palestinian leadership, it finally sunk in that the vaunted Bush betrayals were not to come. <br />Frum's most enjoyable and original formulation involves a Civil War analogy. Would our war on terror be a \\"small war\\" to restore the status quo ante, as Copperhead Democrats had argued during the Civil War? Or had our enemies already pushed the envelope so far that nothing less than a \\"big war\\" - involving a complete social revolution - would be required to reform the slave-holding South/despotic Middle East? However distasteful the analogy, Frum's right: to secure a lasting peace, we have no choice but to attempt Radical Reconstruction once this war is over.	2003-01-12
US	52963571	R1Y6AJMYUG0SZM	0743230493	5817625	Supreme Command: Soldiers, Statesmen, and Leadership in Wartime	Books	4	3	5	N	N	Object lessons in leadership	Supreme Command is a compelling and innovative argument for a contrarian point of view. Cohen impels the reader to put aside everything one has ever thought about civil-military relations, and to focus on the lessons of history. He argues that effective civilian command almost always adds immeasurably to the value of a military campaign. What's more, Cohen is willing to defend this argument wherever it takes him, even when he is rejecting the \\"conservative\\" critique of Vietnam as a war fought \\"with one hand tied behind [the military's] back\\" and when he defends seemingly ineffective moves like LBJ's bombing halts and the hunt for Scud missiles during the Gulf War as politically necessary.<br />Instinctively, Cohen's argument seems sound. Even the best minds can be glaringly wrong when they are focused even slightly outside one's competence. This is equally true of military leaders, who often don't see the political ramifications of their elaborate maneuvering (or lack thereof). Cohen is asking us to consider the pesky political considerations -- as when Lincoln ordered tactical offensives that were criticized as ill-advised in 1864 so that he could be re-elected and achieve strategic victory. Often, Cohen's archetypical civilian leaders find themselves challenging military insularity and asking probing questions to broaden the military's horizons. <br />Cohen analyzed four leaders -- Lincoln, Clemenceau, Churchill and Ben-Gurion -- to analyze how each made full use of their military power during the crises of national existence each faced. These chapters were a bit too anecdotal for my taste, but among then, the one on Ben Gurion stood out and left me wanting to learn more about how the Jewish state was forged. <br />Cohen also poses a counterfactual -- what happens when military and/or civilian leadership is second-rate? Here again, he defies the conventional explanation of Vietnam and argues that the problem in Vietnam wasn't civilian meddling, but the fact that the basic strategic concept underpinning the war was in error.	2002-10-13
US	52963571	R265HH712VG2MU	0316545120	140919625	The Last Lion: Winston Spencer Churchill, Alone 1932-1940	Books	5	155	163	N	N	A chronicle of courage	William Manchester's first Churchill volume covers the first fifty eight years of Winston's life. His second, \\"Alone,\\" covers just eight. Assuming that there will be a third, it will cover the final quarter century, including most of World War II and Churchill's two spells as Prime Minister. To the elementary observer, these divisions seem somewhat out of sorts.<br />It's only by reading that middle volume that we understand just how critical those eight years were. Above all, \\"Alone\\" is a morality play -- the best one I know -- about what happens when democracies fail to confront aggression. At no other time in the 20th Century were so many people so wrong about a matter as grave as the Nazi buildup in the 1930s. Only Winston Churchill and a few of his cohorts disagreed at the time.<br />Early in the book, Manchester briefly lays out a powerful case for Britain's aversion to confronting Germany. Britain sensed the unfairness of the Versailles \\"diktat,\\" and reacted strongly against it. To a great degree, London was fed up with France's insolence after the war, both in its lust for revenge against Germany, and in the flaccid disillusionment of Paris intellectuals. At the same time, Great Britain was a nation cornered by two bloodthirsty wolves -- Nazism and Bolshevism. In order to defeat the other, one would have to be appeased. Being a country dominated by aristocrats, Britain chose to enlist Hitler as a bulwark against Communism. In doing so, they ignored the basic fact of geopolitical proximity: only Germany, abutting France and a few hundred miles away from Britain's shores, had the capacity to strike at the West. Britain's aristocrats bet wrong, and Churchill, ever the \\"traitor to his class\\" immediately recognized it.<br />Churchill's story also holds valuable lessons for us today. By nature, Churchill was naturally aggressive, and as such, Manchester writes that he saw exactly what Hitler was up to. Pacifists often distrust such assertiveness, even in a democracy. In fact, assertiveness in defense of democratic values is almost always the right foreign policy. One can have assertiveness for good, or assertiveness for evil, and one must choose it for good. In this way, Churchill's \\"black and white\\" Manichean worldview has truly stood the test of time.	2002-07-14
US	52963571	R1SJ7XJ4QNMPU8	0742508250	157292830	Intellectuals and The American Presidency: Philosophers, Jesters, or Technicians? (American Intellectual Culture)	Books	5	11	12	N	N	Where Presidents and ideas meet	Tevi Troy has written an interesting and highly engaging chronicle of the ever-increasing relevance of public intellectuals and think tank denizens on how the Presidents govern. Intellectuals and the American Presidency is also one of the most important books recently written about the Presidency, and its pages teach us that a key ingredient for Oval Office success is a coherence of ideas, the presence of which can multiply the perceived strength of any President.<br />Troy identifies Arthur Schlesinger, Jr., from the Kennedy era, as the first true \\"court intellectual\\" in the White House. Although there were surely precursors in FDR's administration, Schlesinger was the first to serve on the White House staff, and he was followed by men performing more or less similar functions in subsequent Administrations. The contemporaneous rise of two institutions made this new kind of behind-the-scenes influence possible. The G.I. Bill democratized higher education and conferred a newfound popular respect upon full-time academics. The growth of the institutional Presidency, with an expanding universe of aides performing ever-more specific tasks, made it possible for such an unconventional position to be created.<br />Initially, the intellectual's purpose in the White House was rather limited. Schlesinger and Eric Goldman (Schlesinger's immediate successor in the Johnson Administration) were regularly derided as \\"East Wing\\" aides, far away from the West Wing whirlwind. Both served in a capacity that was more public liaison than policy-oriented. Their job was to represent the President to an increasingly influential intellectual community, rather than to shape policy. Organizing White House events highlighting sundry items of concern to the educated classes - the arts, for instance - fell under their purview as well.<br />The first truly synergistic relationship between a President and an intellectual in this modern period came into being when Richard Nixon hired Daniel PatrickMoynihan, a Democrat, for the Labor Department, and later, in the White House. Nixon had always styled himself as a politician standing opposed to liberal shibboleths, and in Moynihan he found someone who could needle left-liberal excess, par excellence. Moynihan was also a policymaker more than an \\"ambassador,\\" and was instrumental in crafting the Family Assistance Plan, Nixon's bid to replace a cumbersome social welfare state with direct payments to the needy. Here, Moynihan showed a knack for feeding off Nixon's animosity towards liberal interest groups, responding to a Nixon query about the fate of social workers under FAP with a jubilant \\"It will wipe them out!\\"<br />For a brief interregnum in the Reagan years, the intellectuals surrounding the White House seemed to go quiet. Indeed, Troy's chapter on Reagan is his shortest, and for good reason. In the early 1980s, ideas developed by conservative intellectuals were quietly embedded in the machinery of government. No single personality could exemplify them in the way a Schlesinger or a Moynihan could. <br />The 1970s had been a key turning point for conservatives in the battle of ideas. Thanks to seeds planted by Moynihan, Irving Kristol, Robert Goldwin, and others, conservative think tanks like the American Enterprise Institute or the Heritage Foundation took root. These institutions emerged as powerful alternative to university faculties, and were single-mindedly focused on changing public policy. When Reagan came to power, he utilized these conservative intellectuals not as high-profile \\"ambassadors,\\" but in conventional \\"line\\" positions in government agencies where they could directly influence policy. Ultimately, these scholars took their ideological bearings from a like-minded President. As Bob Novak and Rowland Evans put it, \\"Because Reagan came to office with a driving ideology that informed his every action, and which demanded compliance by his colleagues in government, his administration was uniquely different. Ronald Reagan was the administration.\\" This intellectual and ideological focus, set in place by Reagan himself, helped him tremendously.<br />The experiences of Jimmy Carter and George H.W. Bush illustrate the dangers of the opposite strategy: ignoring ideas. In both Administrations, a lack of intellectual focus helped create a sense of drift. Jimmy Carter had no ideology to speak of, and his basic worldview combined elements of \\"southern populism, progressivism, the civil rights movement, and popular-culture moral sentiments absorbed through musicians like Bob Dylan.\\" Few intellectuals understood where Carter was coming from, and unconventional ideas from Carter's twentysomething pollster Pat Caddell filled the vacuum, to disastrous effect in Carter's needlessly pessimistic \\"malaise\\" speech. <br />In an effort to distance itself from Reagan, the first Bush Administration almost consciously devalued ideas and intellectuals, casting the President as a savvy technocrat rather than as a dreamy-eyed visionary. The speechwriting office, normally a gathering place for serious thinkers, was drastically cut back, its remaining staff overburdened. The domestic policy staff was marginalized by Budget Director Richard Darman and Chief of Staff John Sununu, both pragmatists. All of this made it even harder for the first President Bush to articulate a coherent vision for the future, something which surely contributed to his ultimate defeat. <br />Using the rich framework Troy lays out, how should we think about intellectuals and the current Bush Administration? Thus far, Bush seems to be returning to the Reagan model, relying heavily on the work of think tanks and granting his chief policy development and speechwriting aides unprecedented status and access. Paul Wolfowitz (at the Pentagon), John Bolton (in the State Department), and Patricia Lynn Scarlett (in the Interior Department) are just a few of the identifiable conservative intellectuals directly implementing policy today. Though he disavows intellectual pretenses, Bush knows what he believes and values consistency in thought (if not always in his particular methods) - witness the \\"moral clarity\\" that's served as beacon in the war on terror. As such, I'm betting that Bush will be the subject of the most interesting chapter in any revised version of Intellectuals and the American Presidency.	2002-06-05
US	52963571	R3AYMMODZCHAZD	0195144201	433958284	What Went Wrong?: Western Impact and Middle Eastern Response	Books	4	9	10	N	N	A helpful overview	As a compilation of lectures and small essays, Bernard Lewis' What Went Wrong does not lend itself to very definite conclusions about the ultimate cause of the Middle East's decline, or to examining the origins of the distinctively violent reactions to this great eclipse in the Arab world. What Professor Lewis does do very well is weave a rich tapestry depicting the wide variety of Western contacts with the Middle East over the centuries, in science, the arts, culture, and religion.<br />Lewis writes that a critical measure of Western dominance was established very early on, when seafaring European powers developed vessels capable of embarking to the farthest shores. From that point, Europe could exploit wealth and exert influence in any part of the world, undermining the Middle East's central position as middlemen in land-based Europe-to-Asia trading routes.<br />The Middle East's decline may or may not have been inevitable from this point forward, but even if it was, one definitely gets the sense that the Middle East could have coped better with decline. For instance, they could have adopted many more Western mores and practices than they did, and had they done so, they might have shared in some measure of Europe's prosperity. Unfortunately, Islamic theology and political thought was not set up to accept this alternative. Islamic scholars did not encourage Muslims living (and learning) in Western lands for fear their culture would become corrupted, and for a long while, the Ottoman Empire did not even keep permanent missions in the capitals of Europe. While Western culture allowed itself considerable leeway in maintaining separate religious and secular cultures (thereby encouraging freedom of action), Islamdom was more likely to believe that all action, scientific, military, or political, must be undertaken and justified under the auspices of Islam, leaving little room for a secular culture and civil society. Because of these cultural differences, the West proved more agile in seizing the opportunities of a new world.d more agile in seizing the opportunities of a new world.	2002-03-30
US	52963571	R198HQTE5GKHVW	0385313489	140919625	The Last Lion: Winston Spencer Churchill: Visions of Glory, 1874-1932	Books	5	33	34	N	N	Magisterial	William Manchester's first Churchill volume is one of those books that makes you just love to read.<br />This clearly isn't a book for all those who are fascinated by the mediocre and skeptical of the possibilities for true greatness. This is an unreconstructed and unapologetic look at a leader whose instincts often cut against the grain of the 20th century, but who would emerge as one of the great heroes of it, just when extraordinary leadership was needed the most.<br />Manchester is the rare gifted writer who has mastered the biographical craft as well as the sweeping narrative needed to succinctly encapsulate the mores and habits of an entire nation at a particular moment in time. He does this brilliantly in his introduction, about one hundred pages long, which sets the stage with a lavish description of Victorian England. This is one of the best parts of the book.<br />Early on, it is clear that the ambitious young Winston is headed for big things. This wasn't only because he came from one of Britain's most prominent families -- his father rose to become the second most powerful man in the government, and his mother was romantically linked to the Prince of Wales. Despite this, Manchester convinces us, successfully, that Churchill was the best of his generation, that he would have risen even from less auspicious circumstances (admittedly, this interpretation has its limits, since entire social classes were excluded from Parliament at the time). <br />Churchill made his career as a political maverick, changing parties not once, but twice, consistently taking positions that brought him close to political death. Yet Churchill survived -- and what's more, he turned out to be one of the most enduring political presences any democracy has ever seen. What is striking about Churchill's career is that it didn't simply culminate in 1940 after a plodding journey up the political ladder. No -- Churchill had first been elected to Parliament forty years earlier, and he rose quickly within a few years of his election. But then his career plateaud for about a quarter of a century. Here you had a man who was considered a future Prime Minister at age 30, who was in a position to be considered the heir apparent in governments of two different parties at various points from World War I until the late 1920s, and yet didn't take the next step. What happened?<br />The Great War and its aftermath, more than anything, foreordained Churchill's postponed \\"rendezvous with destiny.\\" It was here where Churchill was the most out of step with prevailing political attitudes. Churchill held close to his heart a heroic vision of Britain, and believed deeply in the nobility of a war fought for a just cause. He also believed in the Empire, and did not think that Britain should relinquish what was already hers, even in a time of relative decline vis a vis the United States. Where most saw senseless slaughter in the trenches of France, he saw selfless heroism, a nation at its best.<br />The nation, or at least the political classes, did not agree with this interpretation. In a time that Walter Lippman proclaimed was \\"tired of greatness\\" and where the great fear was that Britain had overextended herself, Churchill defended greatness and Empire. In his view, strength in the service of democracy, and not blind disarmament, would prevent future wars. This view, ascendant in World War II, and in many ways, ascendant again in America today, was seen as discredited at the time, and Churchill in the 1920's repeatedly butted heads with a Conservative leadership over disarmament and withdrawal from India. The trend was so strong in the other direction that Churchill was effectively cast out of his party by the end of the 20's, and looked destined to repeat the fate of his iconoclastic father, who was cast permanently out into the political wilderness for his own apostasies.<br />But with this son, there would always be a second act.	2002-03-10
US	52963571	R25362C2CTF0WS	0316346624	226933679	The Tipping Point: How Little Things Can Make a Big Difference	Books	3	4	5	N	N	Not a very difficult book to grasp	People who pick up Malcolm Gladwell's The Tipping Point because they think the ideas expressed therein will be intriguing probably won't be disappointed.  In describing the role that certain types of individuals play in disseminating new ideas, Gladwell does provide us with a helpful framework for understanding how new trends develop and multiply themselves as they spread throughout a population.<br />Gladwell's argument does have its limits. Insofar as many of the concepts Gladwell are ineffable, and unable to be quantified, he has a hard time proving that his assertions are really true (as anyone in the same position probably would).  Gladwell points to the fact that there are certain people who are incredibly sociable and well-connected (the &quot;connectors&quot;) and describes them in rich detail.  Likewise, he launches into an entertaining description of &quot;mavens&quot; who have a unique grasp on the marketplace.  But lacking specific evidence about how, say, the trend towards &quot;hush puppies&quot; started in bohemian New York, Gladwell falls back on a simple assumption that &quot;connectors&quot; and &quot;mavens,&quot; through some mysterious, unlikely interactions, must have had something to do with it.  The argument is somewhat circular.   <br />Invariably, Gladwell's examples become more interesting than his conclusions.  His vivid descriptions of how subway vandalism virtually disappeared in New York City, or of classic social psychology experiments, are well worth reading.  The problem is that they are too loosely stitched together by conclusions that seem overly straightforward and obvious.  Gladwell posits a &quot;stickiness factor&quot; which makes certain trends click, while others similarly situated quickly fade away.  Basically, this is another way of saying that there are both more and less effective ways of communicating the same piece of information.  In other words, presentation matters.  Don't most of us already know this intuitively?Gladwell is good at isolating factors that propel trends with an initial following in the hundreds to success in the millions, but his argument is often hampered by cliches like this.	2002-01-27
US	52963571	R1OLXJUAUJ695K	0870000586	470174625	The Emerging Republican Majority	Books	4	65	66	N	N	They don't write books like this anymore...	...but maybe they should.  Kevin Phillips' 1969 classic, The Emerging Republican Majority, remains the most concise and dependable guide to historical voting trends in the United States in the 20th century.  The book itself is notorious for urging that Republicans pursue a \\"Southern strategy\\" and abandon the liberal establishmentarian constituencies in the northeast that had previously held sway over the party, but its real value is in the rich historical background Phillips provides.  Phillips can be said to have been successful in spotting a realignment that was then very recent (first manifesting itself in 1964) and proclaiming its continuation well into the future.  Other tectonic shifts in American politics have not proven so long-lasting.  In many ways, the Eisenhower coalition of 1952 and 1956 seemed more formidable than the coalition Phillips describes, but it could not be sustained without the former General's personal appeal.  More recently, one also recalls Arthur Schlesinger's 1992 prediction that Bill Clinton's election augured the beginning of a new 30-year cycle of liberal governance, a hope which would be dashed by the Republican takeover of Congress 24 months later.  <br />Above all, what I learned from The Emerging Republican Majority is that most shifts in voting behavior from election to election really do have rational explanations rooted in policy and in the candidates' important personal traits.  Those who have been able to anticipate these coming shifts have a distinct advantage in winning elections.  <br />Phillips seeks to why certain voting blocs, say, ancestrally German counties in Wisconsin, or Irish Catholic neighborhoods in New York City show unusual Democratic strength in one election while other areas of the country turn in an unusually depressed Democratic vote when compared to four years earlier.  What Phillips finds is that these shifts are no fluke.  The Catholicism of Democrat Al Smith in 1928 (and of course, of John F. Kennedyin 1960) led to unprecedented Democratic majorities among Catholics.  The electoral revolt of German counties in the Midwest against FDR in 1940 was a direct reaction to FDR's desire to contain Nazi aggression, and continued into the war election of 1944.  As America moved Westward in the last century, people took their voting behaviors with them, and this is evident in how the Yankee-settled Pacific Northwest behaved compared to the largely Midwestern suburban tracts of Southern California.  These sociological realities are readily apparent in election returns.  With nearly 200 charts and maps, The Emerging Republican Majority is a book that's unusually full of such historically revealing facts.	2002-01-23
US	52963571	R2B6D69B90QKIW	0465008437	158897103	The Ungovernable City: John Lindsay and His Struggle to Save New York	Books	5	20	26	N	N	A memoir of false hope	In this thorough account of the John Lindsay years, Vincent Cannato seems to have condensed a life's worth of research into the few years it took to write this book. Though Lindsay wasn't a success by anyone's imagination, there are important lessons to be learned from this story of his failure.<br />Cannato begins The Ungovernable City with a discussion of Lindsay's ideological moorings. Given what Lindsay became (he ran for president as a Democrat a notch to the left of George McGovern) he may have seemed like the most unlikely Republican to have lived in the last half-century. But his rationale on why is revealing: &quot;It seemed to me... that this was the party of the individual... It's the party of Lincoln, of civil rights, the protection of the person and his liberties against a majority, even against big business or the federal bureaucracy.&quot;  Lindsay would go onto to decry &quot;antilibertarian&quot; impulses in a way that might make today's conservative proud.  In reality, Lindsay's &quot;individualism&quot; led him in a very different direction: a distaste for unions and the &quot;power brokers&quot; who were virtually sovereign over the city, an embrace of the mindless youth rebellion, with its iconic portrayal of the whimsical individual overcoming sprawling organizations, and a lukewarm commitment to law and order. Lindsay's reluctance to impose standards of civil behavior, even in the most disorderly parts of the city, degenerated into a government-assisted permissiveness where welfare recipients would not (and indeed, in the Lindsay worldview, should not) be required to work, and where (often radical) community groups would be given more control over neighborhood schools. <br />These policies created new political fault lines that aren't likely to be replicated ever again: a liberal Republican mayor allied with ghetto blacks and upscale Manhattanites, standing against the heavily Jewish teachers union (and labor unions in general), white ethnicsin the outer boroughs, and the police.  The eruptions that shook the Lindsay mayoralty were too many to count.  From our own immediate perspective, perhaps the most symbolic of these confrontations took place in lower Manhattan in 1970, when blue collar hard-hats (including a contingent of constuction workers from the World Trade Center) clashed with anti-war protesters.  The mayor was harshly critical of the blue collar workers in the dispute. <br />With the successes of the Rudy Giuliani years fresh in mind, this is an important time to read Vincent Cannato's story of good intentions gone terribly wrong. As others have noted, this is also very much a story about Giuliani, whose way of running the city contrasted sharply with John Lindsay's reliance on sentimental dogma as a substitute for sound management.  One hopes that Cannato will follow up with an equally meticulous and well-researched account of the Giuliani era -- a story with a decidedly happier ending.	2002-01-06
US	52963571	R36RJ7N4BA10D5	076151337X	531387523	The Age of Reagan: The Fall of the Old Liberal Order, 1964-1980	Books	5	15	17	N	N	This is a very important book	In the first of two volumes on the &quot;Age of Reagan,&quot; Steven Hayward has done an extremely creditable job of bridging the emergence of the political Right in 1964-1966 (an era which has been the focus of a great deal of recent scholarship), with the &quot;malaise&quot; years of the late 1970s and the collapse, Hoover-style, of a whole system of liberal governance. The years 1964 to 1980 will be seen decades from now as hinge years in American history.<br />The period from Goldwater to Reagan was a tumultuous one. Liberalism seemed to reach its apogee with the landslide re-election of LBJ in 1964, followed by the last uninterrupted spurt of liberal legislation in 1965. At this very moment, students in Berkeley, California coalesced around the Free Speech Movement and launched a political tidal wave that was successful in deposing Johnson in 1968 and discrediting its' primary target, the managerial liberalism of Johnson and Robert McNamara.  <br />If the antiwar movement was successful in driving a wedge through the heart of the liberal movement and the Democratic party, it was not successful in gaining converts in the overall electorate. Hayward's central insight, I think, is that despite all the mythology surrounding the student movement, it remained deeply unpopular in the rest of America. The antiwar movement was anathema to most Americans even after 1968.  Hayward also successfully shows that LBJ lost the Vietnam War because he never really wanted to fight it to a final and complete victory.  Rather, the goal was to apply &quot;graduated pressure&quot; which would result not in victory but a &quot;negotiated settlement.&quot;  The North Vietnamese understood perfectly well that the American effort was half-hearted, and calculated they could win the war simply by grinding it to a standstill.  Powerful lessons about how not to deal with aggression are abundant in Hayward's work. <br />Hayward is an unapologetic exponent of the conservative view, and this isevident especially when he refers to contemporary liberals like Bill and Hillary Clinton. Nonetheless, his criticisms are thoughful throughout, and it's hard to deny just how harrowing the New Left's antics were in this period. Paul Berman's &quot;The Passion of Joshcka Fischer,&quot; which appeared in the pages of the New Republic this summer, confirms this fact from within the left-wing sphere. One area Hayward clearly shortchanges is Watergate, although one can make the case that Watergate was not that central an element in the unfolding of the conservative movement and the emergence of Ronald Reagan. <br />Hayward also superbly encapsulates the political economy of the election years 1972, 1976 and 1980; in the latter two, Ronald Reagan's presence would loom large.  His summaries of primaries, conventions, and the victory of Ronald Reagan -- as conventional wisdom goes, perhaps the most counterintuitive election result in modern times -- are riveting.	2001-12-18
US	52963571	R17QMSYL4ZLB8C	0812218027	74640312	Electing the President, 2000: The Insiders' View	Books	4	11	11	N	N	A look back at Campaign 2000	There is much that can be learned from this compilation of the campaign strategists holding forth on Election 2000 -- much more so than in any of the other popularized accounts of the campaign and the &quot;36 days.&quot;  Especially if Bush and Gore wind up facing each other again in three years, this is a book to refer back to.<br />Several things struck me from this volume.  One of them was the completely unrepentant manner the TV network representative dealt with the badly botched Florida call on election night.  Every indication is that the media in future elections will continue to rely on the same pseudoscientific models that led to more than one mistaken call that night -- rather than relying on the actual results, which are really the only story one should follow.  <br />Other revelations from this book will fascinate political junkies: why Karl Rove says Bush lost Iowa, how Al Gore's handlers tried to test ad hominem attacks on Bush in focus groups, why Clinton never really campaigned with Gore.  Sure -- none of these revalations are juicy enough to make the pages of the National Enquirer, but they are nonetheless an impressive addition to our body of knowledge about how political campaigns are planned and executed at the highest levels.	2001-12-11
US	52963571	R3CPT0G9XW2HKQ	0385413726	244095611	From Beirut to Jerusalem	Books	4	104	129	N	N	The way the Middle East was	Although Thomas Friedman's From Beirut to Jerusalem is currently enjoying a new wave of popularity, the potential reader should know that this is very distinctly a story about the Middle East in the 1980s, and offers but the merest foreshadowing of current developments in the Arab-Israeli conflict.  That being said, Friedman's work still offers a relatively good account of the roots of the conflict (explaining, for instance, how Palestinians who actually seemed on their way to assimilating into Israeli society instead dramatically rejected it with the 1987 intifada).  The author's sensitive rendition of the Lebanese civil war in the first half of this work is possibly the highlight of the book. <br />Friedman's kinetic (and sometimes glib) writing style is an advantage insofar as it leads him to cover all the bases -- giving &quot;equal time&quot; to describing both increasing secularization and countervailing religious movements in modern Israel.  Even though Friedman is definitely in the &quot;peace&quot; camp, he is relatively fair to those who aren't.  The book's disadvantage is that a sophisticated analysis of Israeli motives is not matched by a similarly insightful analysis of Palestinian desires -- and this leads the author to overstate the prospects for peace.  The main stumbling blocks of the &quot;peace process&quot; today -- the fanatical devotion of the suicide bombers on the one hand and Arafat's unwillingness to crush the radicals who enjoy broad support in the West Bank and Gaza on the other -- are mentioned as afterthoughts in Friedman's concluding chapter.  <br />In the end, Friedman makes the strongest potential argument for undertaking a peace process, one that is seldom mentioned in the Western media -- that idea that &quot;disgorging&quot; the Arab territories would enable Israel to be more authentically Jewish, forestalling a Palestinian population boom that would eventually overwhelm Israel if continued under the status quo.  Friedman identified self-interested motivations on both sides for a Palestinian state.  Over ten years later, it is not clear that a West Bank/Gaza state is really what the Palestinians are after.  If it is was, why all the bombs right after the peace process began? What would have possessed Arafat to reject full statehood at Camp David last year? The answer probably lies in the vain hope that Arabs can eventually overwhelm Israel from within -- creating a state instead of Israel, not a state beside Israel.  The Middle East is indeed a far more dangerous place than Friedman even realized back then.	2001-12-03
US	52963571	R19MD2ET3JXFSZ	1891620916	299684156	President Reagan: The Role Of A Lifetime	Books	4	17	21	N	N	A liberal looks at Reagan	&quot;Since the turn of the century, no president save FDR defined a decade as strikingly as Ronald Reagan defined the 1980s.&quot; This is Lou Cannon's remarkable conclusion to this authoritative Reagan biography. In recent years, Ronald Reagan's stock among historians has soared, and this book shows it. President Reagan: The Role of a Lifetime, first published in 1991, is a largely critical work punctuated by generous (and recently re-written) introductory and concluding sections.<br />Reagan fans may not agree with all of Cannon's conclusions. I certainly didn't. For one thing, Cannon virtually ignores Reagan's role in ending the Cold War. At some level, Cannon's omissions here could not be helped. The most compelling voices on this question are those of former Soviet officials who testified to the genuine reckoning the USSR was faced with when it realized it simply could not compete with SDI or Reagan-era U.S. military advances. And these voices were only heard after the book's initial publication. <br />The economy is another arena where Reagan's reputation now looks better than ever before. The critics called the 1980s a &quot;decade of greed&quot; and our economic future was uncertain when that label was last hurled a decade ago. The subsequent prosperity we experienced only confirmed that Reagan, with the help of the monetarist policies of the Federal Reserve, did indeed launch a lasting new era when he brought to an end the days of stagflation when one out of every three years brought a recession. Democrats also have less room to criticize Reagan after presiding over a prosperous decade where consumer debt, income inequality and corporate profits grew just as much, if not more, than in the 1980s. <br />Even when Cannon's tone is downbeat, his admiration of Reagan's talents and abilities is sincere. He doesn't make the mistake of underestimating the Gipper -- deriding him as some did as an &quot;amiable dunce.&quot;  Instead, he draws compellingly on the theory of &quot;multiple intelligences&quot; to suggest that Reagan had an exceedingly gifted intellect in expressing himself and in connecting with people -- something his academic critics could never fully appreciate. <br />Some day, someone will write a Reagan biography that takes into full account the full historical import of a Reagan legacy that is still unfolding. Until that day, Cannon's work will rank as the defining study of Reagan presidency.	2001-11-20
US	52963571	R1HX05IVZHP73B	0684843374	512456507	The Tempting of America	Books	5	6	9	N	N	A legal masterpiece	If James Madison and Alexander Hamilton were around today, they would surely regard Robert Bork as their intellectual equal.  The Federalist Papers, which they wrote, was the foundational philosophy of our Constitutional Republic.  Bork's The Tempting of America should serve in a similar vein as a foundation, and point of departure, for all our efforts to understand and apply the Constitution today.<br />Bork's central argument is that the only way for judges to interpret the Constitution is to be as faithful to the original intent of the founding fathers as possible in doing so. What are the alternatives to this approach? Why have so many judges found it necessary to stray from the Founders original meaning in incorporating newfangled &quot;rights&quot; that one couldn't get from simply reading the Constitution? Bork surveys the legal landscape for answers, and what he finds isn't pretty: law schools littered with professors outwardly cynical and disdainful about the men who wrote the Constitution, eager to selectively interpret any clause that suits their narrow political purposes in much the same way that literary critics  invent meanings for works of literature that the authors themselves never even imagined. <br />The originalist framework Bork proposes is ultimately neither liberal nor conservative. Though Bork sees most of the sloppy Constitutional interpretation today coming from the left, he reserves some of his strongest criticism for those on the right who would have the Constitution codify a fundamental right to property or enshrine capitalist procedures. Bork establishes once and for all that originalism IS NOT a vehicle for overly narrow legal interpreration that its critics imagine. Quite the opposite: originalism is an open framework in which the overwhelming majority of issues are left to democratically-elected legislatures where the Right and the Left have an equal chance of getting their way.  Since the Constitution says nothing of issues like abortion and a right to privacy, Bork says these issues should revert from courts to legislatures -- and the legislatures would have unlimited authority (unfettered by the threat of Constitutional litigation) to legislate on these &quot;rights&quot; in the most liberal manner possible if they wanted to. In this way, originalism is apolitical. <br />Besides offering refreshing and honest logic, Bork is also a joy to read because of the way he gets inside the cases he evaluates. A case in point is his evaluation of Brown v. Board of Education. Bork not only affirms or denies the arguments made at the time, but singlehandedly constructs a more compelling Constitutional rationale than the one unanimously agreed to by the Justices. <br />Bork's treatise should be required reading for all who aim to understand Constitutional law. It is the perfect antidote to law professors who urge upon their students an essentially lawless approach to legal and Constitutional analysis.	2001-11-12
US	52963571	R156L7N1O6KZI6	0375700773	203371491	The Last Campaign: How Harry Truman Won the 1948 Election	Books	4	2	2	N	N	1948: An electoral mystery	Forget FDR. Forget JFK. Forget Reagan. When it comes to naming the President that Presidents themselves most often seek to emulate, Harry Truman takes the prize. At one point or another, all first-term Presidents will go through an intense period of scrutiny where their ability to win a second term is called into question. Without fail, they'll play the Truman card, promise to bring `em hell, and rally from behind to win when no one thinks they can make it.<br />Zachary Karabell has written a book assessing the validity of the Truman '48 mythology.  Though he is the first to admit that no one will ever know for sure exactly why Truman was able to overcome a double-digit deficit and win decisively, the things he hints at probably come pretty close to the truth: undecided voters breaking massively for an unloved incumbent in a time of peace and prosperity; Thomas Dewey's refusal to attack or engage Truman's attacks; the fact that Dewey really had no message, leaving an open field for Truman's grating anti-Wall Street boilerplate to sweep the farm belt; and pollsters' refusing to recognize that the race had in fact tightened - all of these things took their toll on Dewey's inevitability and contributed to the greatest electoral shocker of the last century. Similar factors were probably at play in creating the squeaker of an election we had last year, where George Bush's last-minute lead evaporated by Election Day.<br />There is no doubt that Karabell really is an engaging writer. But it is also true that he is better at asking questions than answering them. Karabell has a strong sense of the basic questions he needs to answer in the beginning of the book: Why was Truman was so unpopular, even among Democrats? Who was Tom Dewey, and what was his appeal? Unfortunately, the answers he gives seem superficial at best. Karabell explains Dewey simply by saying he was a bland politician whose views were not well known. The Dewey-as-cipher theory sounds a little bit like a cop-out, especially when I have read more detailed portraits of Dewey in chapter-length accounts of the 1948 election.   Karabell praises Dewey for taking a principled stand against outlawing the Communist party, but doesn't explore why Dewey believed that and doesn't really probe the philosophical differences between Dewey and his main Republican competitors. And Karabell's extensive re-telling of the Thurmond and Wallace third party campaigns does sometimes come at the expense of covering the two major candidates, especially Dewey, the man most people really did think would be the next President.	2001-10-23
US	52963571	RUGAA7YM43LKM	0374524971	762916649	Fighting Terrorism: How Democracies Can Defeat Domestic and International Terrorists	Books	5	26	30	N	N	A sobering warning	This brisk volume by Benjamin Netanyahu is a useful guide to combatting terrorism, and although it doesn't mention Osama bin Laden's name, its lessons are relevant to the struggle of today.<br />Netanyahu compellingly shows why refusing to give in to terrorist demands is not just the least worst option -- it is really the only good option for fighting terrorism.  During the 1985 TWA hijacking, our refusal to even consider terrorist demands led to the terrorists' backing down.  Netanyahu says we sent a very different signal during the Iran-Contra affair, when our willingness to negotiate with terrorists spawned even more kidnappings.  <br />Netanyahu also urges us not to underestimate the extent to which terrorism is centrally funded and organized.  The West's failure to recognize that 1970s terrorism was NOT a series of disconnected plots by local dissidents, but was instead instigated by the Soviet Union set the battle against terrorism back years.  We should not forget this today.<br />Those interested in the PLO-Israeli &quot;peace process&quot; should also read this book: its' account of the extent to which terrorism is condoned at the highest levels in the Palestinean leadership, and why Palestineans will never accept the existence of a Jewish state is quite sobering.	2001-10-17
US	52963571	R76G66XA41A4H	0671799320	635706820	The Prize: The Epic Quest for Oil, Money, & Power	Books	5	172	184	N	N	A biography of the world's most interesting business	My interest in Daniel Yergin's &quot;The Prize&quot; was piqued earlier in the year, when energy, not terrorism, was the most pressing domestic problem.  For an economy that had gotten so caught up with the intangibles, with over-hyped, un-real products (haven't we all had enough of &quot;e-business solutions?&quot;), it was refreshing to study an industry dealing with a very tangible product whose supply is so essential to the survival of our economy itself.<br />&quot;The Prize&quot; traces the history of oil from its humble, entrepreneurial beginnings in the hillsides of western Pennsylvania, to the shrewd domination of the industry by John D. Rockefeller, to the breakup of Standard Oil, and through the discovery of oil in the farthest flung corners of the globe.  Part of Yergin's history is something of a tragedy: the gradual seizure of oil from the voyagers who discovered it by national governments who were able to use their seizures to threaten the West during the 1973 oil shock and beyond.  In this one very big instance, third world governments really did take on multinational corporations -- and defeated them.<br />Yergin chronicles how oil went from a freewheeling business of refiners and speculators to an instrument of great geopolitical importance, one where nation-states played at least as great a role in shaping the industry as the oil companies did.  In this transition, anything could -- and did -- happen.  Rock bottom prices threatened the survival of oil producers one year, and sky-high prices forced drastic changes in consumer behavior the next (indeed, &quot;The Prize&quot; does give one a crystal-clear view of the price mechanism).  Nightmare scenarios involving the political manipulation of oil did indeed come to pass in 1973, in 1979, and during the Gulf War.  There is no shortage of high drama throughout this story.<br />One thing I would add to this book is a few pages, no more, no less, on the science and technology behind oil.  What is it --or what do we think it came from?  How is it extracted?  How have new technologies increased efficiency?  <br />If you want a business history that will simultaneously teach you quite a bit about world history (and about the Middle East), &quot;The Prize&quot; is a sure bet.	2001-10-09
US	52963571	RBHD0YV7MAVI1	0316277959	488930050	The Majors-In Pursuit of Golf's Holy Grail	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Fascinating perspective on a non-Tiger era	As it turns out, John Feinstein's The Majors was a perfectly timed book, chronicling a year in which Tiger Woods was at his nadir, winning only one tournament.  As a result, we get to learn about all the OTHER players on the PGA Tour, and it's about time: in the last year and a half, new golf fans have been able to witness one of the most extraordinary times in the history of the game, but have lost sight of the fact that golf isn't a one-man sport, and that there are many great players on Tour.  In The Majors, the spotlight is on them.  Also explored are the travails of qualifying for the majors (and the Tour): the quest for exempt status, Q-school, regional U.S. Open playoffs.  Though extremely rigorous, these rituals are a fitting reminder of just how open the sport is.  For instance, anyone, if they're good enough, can try out for -- and play in -- the U.S. Open.  <br />Fortunately, Feinstein's account doesn't consist entirely of a mere play-by-play of the back nines at all four majors.  The background he provides on the history of the tournaments and courses is prodigious.  Especially in his extended rendition of Augusta, the reader can easily feel like he or she is right there, standing on the freshly cut grass of the 18th green.	2001-07-26
US	52963571	R2G7FZ4NBCANYN	0684826631	526094708	Eyewitness to Power: The Essence of Leadership, Nixon to Clinton	Books	4	11	11	N	N	A Bird's Eye View of the Presidency	David Gergen has written a very worthwhile book even if his conclusions are not very original (in the introduction, Gergen admits this himself). The New Republic has called Gergen the guardian of Washington's conventional wisdom (and they meant it as a compliment). Eyewitness to Power is in keeping with this fine tradition, and doesn't stray much beyond it.<br />Essentially, Gergen offers his inside assessment of the four Presidents he has served -- Nixon, Ford, Reagan and Clinton. His account of the Nixon years is very balanced, but the most distant of all: as a mid-level staffer in an Administration that limited access to the Oval Office, Gergen could only get so close. Nonetheless, his informed speculation about both the grandiose aspirations and the dark side of Richard Nixon is enlightening and poignant. How could a man who accomplished so much feel so insecure as to pursue that catastrophic a course of action against his political opponents? We will never know, but Gergen lays out the evidence nicely.<br />The Reagan section is really the only place where Gergen can be faulted for not including more reflections on his day-to-day experiences. As a former top aide in the Reagan White House, one would expect more in the way of such recollections. For the most part, though, Gergen spends his time synthesizing others' accounts of Reagan, and fortunately, he does an excellent job of it. Though perhaps not his primary purpose in this book, Gergen proves his worth as an historian. <br />Only during the Clinton years do we get any sort of &quot;kiss-and-tell&quot; accounts. Beyond the titilating forebodings of Monica, Gergen does give the serious reader useful revelations on the early Clinton White House: how Clinton's flawed transition hobbled his ability to govern, how the youthful Arkansas Governor viewed the '92 campaign as a practice run for 1996, how Clinton had never expected to win early on, and how this hurt him when he got to the White House. Because the Clinton section is so short on the historical inquiry that dominate the book's earlier sections, Eyewitness to Power is a somewhat skizophrenic -- but still valuable -- work.	2001-07-14
US	52963571	R3KVDRR1R04KGE	0684853787	999464161	Bobos In Paradise: The New Upper Class and How They Got There	Books	5	6	9	N	N	We Are All Bobos Now	To those who might be tempted to set aside &quot;Bobos in Paradise&quot; as yet-another bestselling compilation of trendy anecdotes, I have one word: Don't.  This is the best darn non-fiction writing I have read in years.  David Brooks has a real gift for pulling the reader in, and on what seems like every page there is a story that made me scream out in agreement, and often with laughter.  Brooks does a fine job chronicling the idiosyncracies of this new &quot;bourgeois bohemian&quot; class and covers the variety and the intricacy of its new cultural tapestry very nicely.<br />Two parts of the book were quite striking to me.  The first is Brooks' biography of the public intellectual, which was absolutely dead-on, even as it strayed from the premise of the book in describing a lifestyle not at all unique to &quot;Boboism.&quot;  The second is his chapter on spiritual life, which highlighted the most poignant contradictions of this New Class.  Bobos are the first to assert their individuality and yet yearn for a new sense of community -- for the simpler life of the small town.  Bobos also exhibit a deep spirituality but often take it upon themselves to decide which of the Bible's teachings are right and which ones are wrong.  At the heart of Brooks' critique is that at some point, Bobos will have to choose: they can have a revival of the settled communities and the fixed religiosity (with eternal salvation, damnation, and everything in between) for which they yearn, but they will also have to accept the modicum of monotony and routinization that comes with it -- and which they have spent their lives to date resisting.<br />One of Brooks' most searing insights is that old leftist haunts like Burlington, Cambridge and Greenwich Village are becoming one with (formerly) conservative suburbs like Wayne, Pa. or Winetka, Ill., both in their worldliness and in their outward appreciation of offbeat lifestyles.  Boboism is indeed very widespread, and one of the ideas that Brooks doesn't completely explore is how both sides of the political spectrum are picking up &quot;bohemian&quot; ideas, and particularly the right.  Dinesh D'Souza's The Virtue of Prosperity celebrates the marriage of capitalist business with bohemian ideals of chaos and creativity.  Virginia Postrel's The Future and Its Enemies assails stodgy technocrachy and touts what F.A. Hayek called &quot;free growth and spontaneous evolution&quot; as its alternative.  How very &quot;Bobo&quot; indeed.	2001-07-01
US	52963571	RXTAHC6GQY3ZQ	0060197846	414816337	A Different Drummer: My Thirty Years with Ronald Reagan	Books	5	6	9	N	N	Lessons from the Master	For twenty years, Michael Deaver had the best job in the world (second only perhaps to Ronald Reagan himself): standing by the side of probably the most important, most inspiring leader of the American Century.  A Different Drummer gives us a close-in look at our 40th President, and accomplishes what the biographers-of-record only struggled at: explaining Reagan the man.  <br />For years, frustrated Reaganologists like Edmund Morris have told us Reagan's mind was too hard to penetrate.  Getting &quot;close&quot; to the private man was very difficult for most people.  That Reagan possesed a genius for leadership that hasn't quite been approximated is probably what made them try so hard.  Deaver's central message is that Reagan was really a simple man who was utterly and completely confident in who he was, and in the greatness of his countrymen.  This self-assuredness could explain his supposed lack of introspection so obsessed over by the historians.  The outward self-pity of presidents like Johnson, Nixon, Carter and Clinton have made for abundant and fascinating psychological profiles of these men.  Not so with Reagan. Reagan knew who he was, and had no time for self-doubt.<br />Regretably, Deaver's volume is all too slim.  But his memories of Ronald Reagan are gripping, and will give you a more complete picture of the whole Reagan than will the works of the often confused historians.	2001-06-20
US	52963571	R3W3VG4VBGX2IF	074320123X	217916880	Reagan, In His Own Hand: The Writings of Ronald Reagan that Reveal His Revolutionary Vision for America	Books	4	17	18	N	N	Groundbreaking	The ivory tower of academia has long shunned Reagan as a nostalgic simpleton.  Lou Cannon's authoritative Reagan biography upgraded Reagan's standing slightly, depicting a man with singular emotional intelligence but otherwise writing Reagan off as intellectually incurious.<br />Reagan in His Own Hand shatters all these myths, and it should force historians and Reagan scholars all over to rethink their conclusions about Reagan the man.  Far from the rather dim portrait that has prevailed on the Left (and in some corners of the Right), Reagan was in fact very intelligent and had a unique grasp of facts and statistics, knowing exactly when and where to deploy them to deliver the most effective argument.  This collection of hundreds of Reagan's radio addresses shows that the Great Communicator spoke not only in vague and soothing generalities.  Specificity was part of his eloquence too: &quot;Our productivity is phenomenal. ... We are 6% of the worlds population on only 7% of the worlds land we produce almost half the worlds corn, 2/3 of the soy beans, 1/3 or more of the worlds paper, electrical power, college graduates and almost 1/3 of the farm machinery. Just to round it off we make more than 2/3 of the computers &amp; 80% of all the worlds passenger aircraft.&quot;  The man's optimism, even in a time of national &quot;malaise&quot;, was irresistible. <br />One essay in the beginning of the book illuminates why Reagan enjoyed such a strong connection with America and Americans.  Reagan describes looking out of a high-rise hotel window and seeing the hundreds of headlights and taillights circulating on the streets below: &quot;I wonder about the people in those cars, who they are, what they do, what they are thinking about as they head for the warmth of home &amp; family. Come to think of it I've met them--oh--maybe not those particular individuals but I still feel I know them. Some of our social planners refer to them as 'the masses'... They are not 'the masses,' oras the elitists would have it, 'the common man.'  They are very uncommon.  Individuals each with his own hopes &amp; dreams, plans &amp; problems and the kind of quiet courage that makes this whole country run better than just about any other place on earth.&quot;	2001-06-09
US	52963571	R3QT30LKMVMT17	080902859X	806086708	Before the Storm: Barry Goldwater and the Unmaking of the American Consensus	Books	5	7	9	N	N	The way history should be written	Both liberals and conservatives must read this gripping, methodically researched and balanced account of the 1964 Goldwater campaign. Perlstein writes so convincingly you'll swear that he must have personally witnessed these events (in fact, he wasn't born until 1969). <br />When the book begins, Goldwater defies the stereotype of a bungling extremist who botched conservatism's first opporunity to reach the White House. Indeed, the biographical sketch Perlstein provides shows that Goldwater was seen as a dashing, charismatic figure who was often given even odds to defeat Jack Kennedy before his assassination, an event which profoundly transformed the cultural landscape and turned political moderation into a national imperative. <br />After the assassination, it is clear that 1964 will not be Goldwater's year. The story changes unalterably, and the first stirrings of major historical turning point are submerged underneath a temporary desire for calm and continuity. A major subtext of the book (and hence the subtitle) is that this consensus was beginning to unravel just as it had achieved its greatest political affirmation in the LBJ landslide. <br />It is a pity that Perlstein's book has to end on Election Day, 1964, just after he gives us a taste of Ronald Reagan's triumphant political debut with the &quot;A Time for Choosing&quot; speech and the revolution that is to come. The story that follows from there is eminently more interesting and Perlstein could probably write an even better sequel (in the interim, Matthew Dallek's book on Reagan's gubenatorial campaign, The Right Moment, picks up where Before the Storm leaves off). A political liberal, Perlstein has written perhaps the definitive history of the origins of the conservative movement in America.	2001-05-18
US	52963571	R2Z5VS1FG986IW	0815769504	374332511	The White House Staff: Inside the West Wing and Beyond	Books	5	9	9	N	N	A User's Manual for the 21st Century White House	Bradley Patterson has done our democracy a great service.  In this captivating book, Patterson offers a comprehensive but fluid explanation of the responsibilities of all the White House offices -- and illuminates the web of interactions between these offices that make the modern White House run like clockwork (most of the time, at least).  This book would be useful for anyone entering government service, and it offers valuable insights on the do's and don'ts of White House staff work.  After reading this surprisingly insightful book, I was definitely left with a stronger understanding of the presidency.  If only we could convince Patterson to write a similar book on all the major departments and agencies of our government, his collected work would probably constitute the most cogent and accessible guide to the Federal government available today.	2001-04-14
US	52963571	R3KQ6RLOTV4XUF	0385493282	556829614	The First American: The Life and Times of Benjamin Franklin	Books	4	11	11	N	N	Biography as Poetry	H.W. Brands is an exceptionally gifted writer, and The First American shows it.  More than most writers, he knows how to turn a phrase.  Knowing this (especially after having read his superb biography of Theodore Roosevelt) I was at times disappointed by The First American's missed opportunities.  Brands does an excellent job chronicling Franklin's numerous endeavors, but there were times I was hungry for a paragraph or two of pithy insight explaining how and why Franklin rose so fast.  Brands hints that Franklin was simply a talented man in one of the most open, meritocratic societies the world has ever known, but this explanation could have used some more depth.  From this book, it is also obvious that Franklin started a great many endeavors.  Did he continue to actively manage them and what did this mean for the lifestyle of an aging man?  Also, there is precious little detail and reflection on Franklin's personal life, perhaps an obvious reminder that Franklin didn't dwell openly on his wife or family, living alas in a more reserved, less romantic era.  Brands went far with the First American, but could have gone farther.	2001-03-31
US	52963571	RGSZC2OG80QKQ	0812931947	810824670	The Almanac of American Politics 2000	Books	5	0	0	N	N	There's no better way to learn about our country...	... and her politics than by reading this book.  Barone and Ujifusa's Almanac serves not only as &quot;the Bible of American politics,&quot; providing a wealth of information on our Senators and representatives, but paints memorable portraits of culture and society in all of America's states and in each of our country's 435 Congressional districts.  If you have read Barone's classic, Our Country, you will remember his thesis that culture, ethnicity and geography (rather than economic status) are the driving forces behind Americans' political choices.  Barone's detailed sketches of individual American communities illuminate these geographic and cultural rifts.  Better than any other work I've seen, the Almanac explains WHY the politics of San Francisco is different than that of rural Kansas or Appalachian Kentucky.	2001-03-17
US	52963571	R5R3R6Y1K27BF	0684868148	277349860	The Virtue of Prosperity : Finding Values In An Age Of Techno-Affluence	Books	5	12	14	N	N	Second Thoughts About the New Economy	Dinesh D'Souza has written a very significant book in which he endeavors to find the deep, true meaning behind the euphoria, the hype, the madness that is the new economy.  After a sober and methodical reassesment of the profound changes left behind in the wake of our recent prosperity, D'Souza ultimately comes down on the side of the optimists, the Party of Yeah he calls them, who embrace transformational technologies even as critics (whom he dubs the Party of Nah) charge that they threaten to uproot the old bonds of community, replacing spiritual values with purely materialist passions.   <br />D'Souza is scrupulously balanced in forthrightly presenting both sides of the argument.  The arguments themselves aren't new; the rigor with which D'Souza analyzes them quite possibly is.  Does technological capitalism ultimately degrade the soul?  We have all heard the liberal economic critique of the gap between the rich and poor.  How does the emerging conservative critique of the social consequences of inequality stack up in comparison?  D'Souza discusses these questions briskly and adroitly.  Often while reading the book, I would find myself thinking of possible counter-arguments to the views presented on any given page and invariably found them echoed a turn or two of the page later.  <br />More than most defenders of the marketplace, D'Souza does take very seriously the notion that the new prosperity may hinder our search for spiritual meaning.  The case for either sides of this often demagogued controversy is clouded by the fact that one's economic good fortunes don't seem to guarantee either frustration or inner fulfillment.  For every white collar criminal, there is a young man who is moved to depravity by hunger or poverty.  For every example of a person with modest means contented with the simple life, there seems to be an equal abundance of millionaires who find fulfillment and happiness in their enterprise and in the educational advancement that prosperity makes possible.  Perhaps this means that techno-capitalism really has less spiritual consequence (for good or ill) than we think and at best it offers unique people an outlet for their interests, much like art, science and politics.  These are the kinds of questions you will find explored in this refreshing work. <br />D'Souza concludes his work with a life-affirming statement of the dignity of human nature as a rebuttal and a caution against those who would take technology too far in the quest for pursuits such as cloning, genetic engineering or even merging the human race with computers.  Part of the beauty of techno-capitalism is that it allows for the satisfaction of human wants and desires in a decentralized environment that replicates natural processes.  Naturally self-regulating, self-perpetuating price mechanisms that nobody fully understands (much less controls) have much less to do with the marketplace than command-and-control decisionmaking.  Effectively, capitalism is the triumph of human nature over centralization and control.  Technology is the product of pure human nature and its perpetual quest for improvement.  Does the new emphasis on biotechnology, the rhetoric of &quot;overcoming&quot; human nature with vastly advanced, highly evolved computers, and the impetus to control nature through genetic manipulation violate the principles that have brought us such success and the Party of Yeah such satisfaction?  At the very least, it is something both optimists and pessimists must think through before taking the next bold leap into the future.	2001-02-23
US	52963571	RPKPI2DDX8EEZ	0465045901	212702260	Smash Mouth: Two Years In The Gutter With Al Gore And George W. Bush -- Notes From The 2000 Campaign Trail	Books	3	8	10	N	N	An Irreverent, Disjointed First Draft of History	The essential formula behind Dana Milbank's Smashmouth is this: string together clouded attempts at humor with serious reportage to produce the skeletal outlines of what is still an incoherent, non-sequitur narrative, when needed stick in a paragraph or two to summarize important month-long stretches of the campaign the author somehow missed writing about, and package it by naming your book after a rock band that most people who salivate over minor shifts in polling data have never heard of.  While you're at it, disregard typos and instances where the writer repeats exactly the same information, word for word, that he included 30 pages earlier.  Such are the travails of releasing a book a mere month after the presidency was decided.  <br />Other than that, you'll have a mildly entertaining series of vignettes that might be of interest to C-SPAN junkies who haven't quite yet gotten to reading every word ever written about George W. Bush and Al Gore.  On occasion, Smashmouth is worthwhile: some of the hard-headed reporting on Bush's background and philosophy might even please some of the Republicans in the audience.  Other times, Milbank slips and shows his true colors as a self-indulging mouthpiece for an Eastern media establishment that looks in disbelief on any aspiring president whose values have been thus far untouched by Beltway mores and sensibilities.	2001-02-19
US	52963571	R20KRDG5EV9TPH	068484320X	896801598	The Right Moment: Ronald Reagan's First Victory and the Decisive Turning Point in American Politics	Books	5	11	12	N	N	I'd give it a sixth star if I could	Matthew Dallek's The Right Moment was a highly enjoyable, well-written and insightful view of the turmoil in California politics in the mid-60s. Dallek's effort is a great work of historical scholarship, synthesizing different topics like the John Birch movement, the student uprisings at Berkeley, the Watts riots and the internal rifts in the Democratic Party into a coherent and compelling narrative of &quot;what went wrong&quot; with 1960's liberalism. The Right Moment also gives us a taste of what is to come with the rise of Ronald Reagan, and as such, it builds an important bridge between two very different eras, the 1960s and the 1980s. The only thing that can be said against the book is that the cover dramatically oversells the Reagan aspect -- at least two thirds of the book deals with Pat Brown and his struggle with liberalism's internal demons. Nonetheless, it is a joy to read, and even contains gems on Reagan you won't find anywhere else.	2000-11-28
US	52963571	R1LICOFUFV3V5Y	0684845598	273724840	Hardball: How Politics Is Played, Told by One Who Knows the Game	Books	5	4	7	N	N	How to Win Friends and Influence People in Politics	There is no more practical, enjoyable guide to retail politics than Matthews' Hardball; it's well on its way to becoming a classic and the &quot;ones who know the game&quot; know that it's mandatory reading. Hardball vividly explains how figures like Jimmy Carter and Lyndon Johnson got to where they were in politics -- using tactics like fighting for a seat at the table at any available forum and recognizing the value of rising stars who lost elections before they started winning. Hardball shows how the most unlikely politicians like Geraldine Ferraro and William Gray of Pennsylvania rose to surprising heights. You'll be delighted by the insights Matthews offers.	2000-11-23
US	52963571	RGJPRVFBVWGO5	0201627337	660338436	Bad Boy: The Life And Politics Of Lee Atwater	Books	3	11	18	N	N	Starting to Debunk the Myths...	I read Bad Boy with great anticipation and came away with mixed feelings. &quot;If only we had another Lee Atwater&quot; is a sentiment that resonates with today's too-often clutzy, tone-deaf GOP. But the Lee Atwater presented in Brady's comes off less as the strategic Messiah lionized in Republican circles and more like a go-getting prankster. The truth is probably somewhere in between.<br />Typically, Brady obsesses over the Willie Horton episode, even though he does dislodge the pervasive myth that Atwater was somehow the prime mover behind this over-hyped episode. Still, these pages would have worked better as a more detailed account of the strategy behind the '88 campaign. (That's why I bought the book -- not to read more re-hashing of the Horton claptrap.) After enjoyable and vivid accounts of Atwater's early South Carolina campaigns, Bad Boy starts to disappoint and doesn't shed much more light on the politics of the 1980s and beyond. <br />Atwater may be called the master of negative politics, but after watching the latest episode in Florida and recalling the impeachment ordeal, I doubt that this is what will distinguish him in the pantheon of political masterminds in years to come. Atwater's legacy will be that of a strategist who had a unique sense of what was really going on in his generation, and one of the first to recognize the current transformation of politics from a battle between left and right to contest between libertarian-minded thinkers who relish progress and freedom and traditional populists who want to control it.	2000-11-18
US	52963571	R198NGIK79XBXT	1568491433	409760275	The Making of the President, 1960	Books	5	16	16	N	N	A Landmark	If you want to understand what is happening in the closing stages of this campaign, then read Theodore White's Making of the President 1960. I was drawn to this book because of the parallels between these two very close elections featuring a cast of characters in many ways similiar: the dull but experienced Vice President running on peace and prosperity versus the more charismatic challenger who argues that American can do better. Who will win? Just like 1960, it's sure to go down to the wire.<br />In particular, White's accounts of the early primaries and the balloting at the Democratic Convention were completely engrossing. 1960 may have been the first modern election in that it was ultimately decided by television, but Campaign '60 started out much differently than the media-driven spectacles of today. White artfully goes behind closed doors and shows how the well-oiled Kennedy organization's battle of personal persuasion won them just enough delegates to seize the nomination. White's account of the Kennedy victory confirms the truth that the skill with which a campaign is waged has much more to do with victory and defeat than deterministic generalities like &quot;peace and prosperity&quot; or &quot;are you better off than you were 4/8 years ago?&quot;	2000-10-29
US	52963571	R21LIMOXHFGUIZ	039914563X	225323965	The Bear and the Dragon	Books	4	3	7	N	N	Couldn't put it down	<br />&quot;Bear&quot; is a worthy addition to Tom Clancy's Jack Ryan epic.  You can tell it's good when you find virtually all of the sub-plots in the  book compelling and interesting. Clancy did an especially good job of  connecting the big developments in the book to the ordinary lives of real  people -- showing how ordinary people can sometimes change the course of  history unknowingly. Clocking in at 1028 pages, &quot;Bear&quot; just flew  by. If anything, it was too short. <br /><br />Of course, Clancy can be accused  of sticking too close to the &quot;formula&quot; in this book. The prospect  of major conflict between big powers, though titilating for most of the  book's early section, quickly becomes blase in the Clancy universe. Didn't  the same thing happen in Debt of Honor and Executive Orders? Though Clancy  introduces fascinating new characters and leaves us wanting to know more at  the end, I for one sure hope Clancy's next novel is not about the next  &quot;War of the Year&quot; that Ryan has to deal with. <br /><br />Having taken  a break from Clancy for a while (dropped Executive Orders midway through  and skipped Rainbow), the first thing I will surely do is go back and read  what I missed. This guy is still good!	2000-09-10
US	52963571	R2M4YEUHPW46C0	0684853213	855973047	The SHADOW UNIVERSITY: The Betrayal of Liberty on America's Campuses	Books	5	6	7	N	N	A Devastating Indictment of the New McCarthyism	In 373 exhaustively researched pages, Kors and Silvergate present a comprehensive and devastating indictment of the state of freedom at American universities. The book is NOT the facile ideological tripe which  exploits a limited number of &quot;horror stories.&quot; Rather it features  countless examples of totalitarianism at our Universities, and moreover,  the book successfully explains where this came from and how it can be  stopped. In their respective roles as erudite scholar and seasoned civil  liberties litigator, Kors and Silvergate illuminate the intellectual,  philosophical, and legal aspects of this searing debate.	1999-02-02
US	52963571	R5W2K13SEEE5E	0465069592	114985244	T.R.: The Last Romantic	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Best Book of '98!	H.W. Brands has written a masterpiece. TR is at once epic, engaging, forceful and poignant. As an important historical figure, Roosevelt was also perhaps the most interesting person ever to serve as President.  Brands' unique style makes this very clear to the reader, and consequently,  this book was a pure pleasure to read. Brands is the most eloquent  scholarly writer I have ever read, and as such he does justice to his  heroic subject.	1999-01-04
US	52963571	RXK9QPKO8VVC7	0684827603	215865364	The Future and Its Enemies: The Growing Conflict Over Creativity, Enterprise, and Progress	Books	5	3	5	N	N	The Politics of Progress	Books asking us to envision a &quot;new&quot; politics are a dime-a-dozen. Only one of them is worth reading and that is Virginia Postrel's The Future and Its Enemies. This book is a sublime expression of the idea that the  laissez faire society envisioned by many &quot;conservative&quot; thinkers  will lead to far more creativity, diversity, and innovation than could have  been created by any policymaker's plan. The medium you are reading this on  is proof of it. Years ago, it would have been difficult to imagine the idea  of a transparent online marketplace where you could read a compilation of  book reviews from both experts and ordinary readers, and if you liked what  they had to say, have the book sent to you just by clicking a button. No  Washington sage planned out a World Wide Web with sites like Amazon and  eBay. It just spontaneously evolved when entrepreneurs began pushing the  limits of new technology. The result of this decentralized process is  pretty spectacular. This is exactly the point, argues Postrel. The best  things in life always emerge in a laissez-faire environment. Though this  may seem like common sense, it runs against the prevailing political  wisdom, even in this era of supposed fiscal conservatism. &quot;The era of  big government&quot; may be over, but Washington's appetite to control your  life in new ways is still very much alive. Bill Clinton thinks he can plan  out a good life for you through tax incentives for good behavior and  public-private initiatives. Anyone well versed in Postrel's ideas knows  this is folly. But Clinton's &quot;third way&quot; politics is only one  manifestation of a growing reactionary movement to rein in and shape the  future to fit some pre-determined mold. This is a movement that encompasses  much of the political left, right AND center. Buchananites attacks free  trade which bring lower prices and more convenience because it destabilizes  the industrial communities of the past. Reactionary environmentalists and  assorted leftists argue for small scale economic autarky, insularity, and  stagnation for the sake of restoring us to some pristine state of nature (a  state of nature in which the air was cleaner, but life expectancy was also  a fraction of what it is today). On one hand are the stasists -- from  Clinton to Buchanan to Ralph Nader, and on the other are the dynamists who  embrace change and innovation, even if they can't control it.	1998-12-27
US	52963571	R3LLDW1W1TM62C	0060168366	796423640	A History of the American People	Books	4	0	1	N	N	A good overview	By and large, this is a good overview of American history, and should  certainly be a starting point for any budding American history buff. The  book is not only endearing to me for ideological reasons (because, finally,  it gives FDR and JFK the judgments they actually deserved), but because it  tells the entire American story (I couldn't think of one major event in US  history which has been neglected). Unfortunately, though, 1100 pages is not  really enough to tell this story. Especially in the 20th Century, the  reader might feel that Johnson is giving little more than a basic account  with a greater focus on his own opinion. But this is not entirely a bad  thing: the inherently concise nature of the book gives us  eminently  understandable accounts of great periods in our history, especially his  excellent explanation of the Civil War.	1998-09-06
US	52963571	R26PB3CZCI0DY0	0451187849	922642678	We the Living: Anniversary Edition	Books	3	1	3	N	N	Shades of Gray	This book is billed as a great philosophical tour de force, a marketing  strategy clearly meant to appeal to Atlas Shrugged readers who may have  missed her first work. Instead, most of the time it reads like a  conventional love story, with many more shades of gray than one will find  in her all-or-nothing works like Atlas. This disappointed me.	1998-08-25
US	52963571	RJHHP0OR9VMTF	0674443020	734738555	The Ideological Origins of the American Revolution	Books	5	7	14	N	N	This book is poetry	This book is completely captivating, from front to cover. Anyone who loves  ideas should read this book; it shows the power of ideas and how they shape  our nation's Founding. In it, Bailyn traces the intellectual twists and  turns that shaped America in the years leading to revolution and beyond.  Nonetheless, it is open to criticism because it focuses almost exclusively  on ideas, to the detriment of a discussion of social conditions. To some  extent, these criticisms are valid: people aren't always rational and don't  follow intellectual necessity. But still, as an account of the American  Revolution as intellectual movement, it is sublime.	1998-08-23
US	52963571	RHB4YRYV2PYL9	0679736883	443101004	The Radicalism of the American Revolution	Books	4	13	17	N	N	How the American Nation Was Created	This is essential reading for any student of the revolution. Essentially,  it explains the origins of the idea of American exceptionalism--how we came  to be a nation radically different from any that had come before. It is  scholarship at its best, and is particularly well written. Moreover, it  succeeds where other accounts don't by telling the complete story of the  revolution. Whereas Bernard Bailyn's Ideologicial Origins of the American  Revolution, though excellent, may dwell too much on the intellectual  currents at the time, or other studies may seem to be little more than  accounts of battles, backcountry revolts, this book incorporates specific  facts of social life and shows how they shaped ideas. Two criticisms:  First, as a scholarly work, it is hardly evocative. Second, the tendency  for Wood to want to draw a clear &quot;before and after&quot; picture of an  unmistakable break with the past tend to makes me think that he chooses to  ignore &quot;democratic&quot; or Whig forces in America prior to 1760,  while over-emphasizing them later to paint a picture of radical change.	1998-08-23
US	52963571	R1Y2F2TEAH2IEE	0060187344	350370805	The Collected Speeches of Margaret Thatcher	Books	4	0	0	N	N	A rhetorical tour de force	Ever since reading the Downing Street Years, Margaret Thatcher has been an  inspiration to me. More than anyone, it is she who the idea of freedom into  action. This collection of her speeches doesn't disappoint. It is  illuminating, particularly in the years from 1975 to 1979 when she speaks  as Leader of the Opposition. These tracts reveal a deep philosophical  understanding of the workings (and the virtues) of the free markets and of  its inherent superiority over the collectivist cancer. They are worthy of  Adam Smith, even Ayn Rand. Naturally, ideas give way to actual policies  once she becomes Prime Minister. Nonetheless, her speeches from 1979 to  1990 provide a us with a useful guide to these tumultuous years of profound  reform. After 1990, freed from the shackles of Government, she speeks  eloquently, deflating the European federalists and the neo-statists on the  Left who have changed their stripes but not their ravenous appetite for  new, more ingenious methods of social control.	1998-08-23
US	52963571	R327U807CJ3ZX5	0805026924	525520624	Testament: The Bible and History	Books	5	21	22	N	N	A history of meaning	This is quite a book. If you can't find this book here (shh, don't tell anyone at Amazon!) you might be able to find it a bigger chain book store. If you really want to understand the beginnings of our civilization, and our search as humans for a sense of purpose and destiny, this is the book to read. The Bible has been at the center of this search for the sacred. Even for the non-religious, its story must be considered as quite a spectacular attempt by humanity to reach for that higher pinnacle. I would also strongly recommend the documentary based on this book if you can get ahold of it.   I have set up a page on Romer at [...] It grew out of a project for my English class last year. Much to my surprise, I have gotten e-mails from around the world by people who had a similar interest in John Romer and the Testament series.	1997-03-22
US	52963571	ROR2IZ9B1TFYC	0805032673	955584491	Ain't You Glad You Joined the Republicans?: A Short History of the Gop	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Batchelor brings history alive	Guiding us through countless elections, John Calvin Batchelor brings history alive in describing the triumphs and trials of the Republican Party. A must-read for any history buff or anyone wondering exactly where the &quot;most successful revolutionary party in history&quot; came from	1997-01-28
US	52963571	R116DINQB4Z5AJ	0684812010	794734184	Where Wizards Stay Up Late: The Origins of the Internet	Books	4	0	0	N	N	A True Cybernaut can't NOT read this!	Though this book could have used some more information  on the amazing expansion of the net, this book is well  done and a must read for any true netizen. It's hard to  believe that the net was little more than an idea in   someone's head at one time.	1997-01-12
US	52963571	R1KL6OHR3F6MIO	0452277051	203341062	The People's Choice: A Novel	Books	5	1	1	N	N	This is to C-SPAN junkies what ID4 was to action fans	It is seldom that I finish any book in half a day, but  this is exactly how long it took me to read &quot;The People's Choice.&quot; I simply couldn't put it down. Actually, this   story is kind of interesting. Being somewhat a fan of the  Electoral College, I couldn't resist but wondering what  really would happen if this took place. Because Greenfield  is in the media and the media sadly controls the   &quot;conventional wisdom&quot;, I have a feeling that Greenfield's portrayal  of the media frenzy surrounding this scenario is really on  target. If you ever wanted to learn about who really elects  our presidents, The People's Choice is a history lesson   you'll never forget. (Extensive review of this at   [...] )	1997-01-12
