US	52965794	RD9M2T23N4VWD	0553103547	268067011	A Game of Thrones (Song of Ice and Fire)	Books	1	104	188	N	N	Good stuff, some less good stuff; more of the latter, though	With A Game of Thrones, it's the good stuff that sucks you in, but all the problems that leave you frustrated and resentful when its done.<br /><br />The good stuff includes writing that flows well, characterizations that that may be occasionally ripped off but are at least many and varied and usually aren't completely flat (better than most fantasy/sci-fi), an immersive world, tension amongst the characters and factions, and hints of dire developments to come.<br /><br />But please, this is an 800 page book that fails to completely tell even one story. George R R Martin has taken about 8 plots, none of which would amount to even a novella on its own, and put them all in a blender in the hopes that when it all comes out as sludge, you won't notice that it doesn't add up to anything. The constant switching back and forth between plot lines and perspective doesn't allow even a single one to develop in more than a halting manner. I am of the school that believes if you are going to make me read 800 pages and call it a book, and make me wait 3 years for the next one, you better be able to write one complete arc anyway, somthing that has eluded this author. Good grief, when did it become acceptable to write an 800-page book with so little actual content? Huge swaths of this book could be deleted and it would make little difference to the reading experience.<br /><br />As frustrating as this is, it wouldn't in and of itself amount to fatal criticism if the book didn't have other problems. I think the chief one is just that we've seen all these people before. The Catelyn/Eddard/Robb trio seems so similar in feel to the Leto/Jessica/Paul trio in Dune that they could almost be carbon-copies, minus the trappings of setting; Catelyn's lines could be Jessica's in many spots. Sansa is straight out of the pages of War and Peace. I'm sure Arya basically wrote herself. I'm not opposed to borrowing in general, but I prefer that authors make some effort to disguise their efforts in this matter.<br /><br />Strip out all this, though, and you are left with some good stuff. Except in the more vulgar passages, which usually seem simply ostentatious, Martin clearly has a grasp of language. His descent into detail is occasionally tiresome, but often does do a good job at conveying a time and place, and the trade-off is well worth it. While the crush of different characters with hard-to-remember names can make War and Peace look like a one-man play, it does lend the novel a sense of grandeur and scope that is unique and welcome. And the building up of subtle tensions (like the ominous rumblings from beyond Hadrian's, er, The Wall) are well-handled, or would have been if they had ever amounted to anything.<br /><br />Still, at the end of the day, three books came to mind when reading this: a) Tolstoy's War and Peace; b) Stephen R Donaldson's Mirror of her Dreams; and c) Donaldson's Gap series, starting with The Real Story. A Game of Thrones is but a pale shadow of any of these books. Tolstoy has a very similar soap-opera-esque feel, but he is a master crafstmen who had a story to tell, who told it, and finished it. Martin appears to be none of these things, but of course War and Peace is a classic of western literature. Donaldson's Mirror of her Dreams features an incredibly similar medeval-esque setting of political intruige, but Donaldson's story had great imagination, vastly superior characters, and a plot that had an arc and momentun. Donaldon's Gap series had a similar format (character-switching chapters), similarly traumatized characters and a similar willingness to kill off anyone, and similar layers and layers of intruige - but it again had vastly richer and far more believable characters, managed to make even the nasty ones sympathetic at some level, and had a plot which actually moved and allowed the characters to develop in interesting ways and stuff to happen. In short, A Game of Thrones seems amaturish and derivitive by comparison to anyof these books.<br /><br />A book can be of less-than-epic quality and still do OK, but when it comes to A Game of Thrones, I keep coming back to one fact - 800 pages, and it's little more than an introduction to Westros. If I were an author writing an 800-page book, I'd want more to show for it.on to any of these books. <br /> <br />A book can be of less-than-epic quality and still do OK, but when it comes to A Game of Thrones, I keep coming back to one fact - 800 pages, and it's little more than an introduction to Westros. If I were an author writing an 800-page book, I'd want more to show for it.	2004-07-23
US	52965794	R33TD9Z8H8HM6T	0670032549	511631376	The Gunslinger (The Dark Tower, Book 1)	Books	2	6	16	N	N	OK, so what's the deal here?	Although I don't care for the horror genre Stephen King usually writes, I have still been convinced for a while that he is in fact a good writer and as The Dark Tower series has been getting a little press recently it drew my attention, and of course as a big Tolkien fan I was curious after learning it was inspired to some degree by the Lord of the Rings.<br />Now, knowing who Stephen King is, I was hardly expecting some Tolkien knock-off obviously. But I was expecting coherency. This book is, quite frankly, very poorly-written. Things happen (like the Slow Mutants) for absolutely no reason and have no impact on the plot, characters, or tension level, and feel like some sort of gratuitous wandering monster in a D&amp;D game. A key and mysterious character of Jake is handled very poorly, never generating any interest or sympathy and the relationships are never developed; Jake's eventual fate is unmoving and unsatisfying (ok, sorry about this but I'll break it to you: Jake dies. I think. But it's hard to care too much as this section is poorly-written and the relationship between Jake and the Gunslinger never really is as compelling as I think the author thought it was).<br />But, that's not all. The book clearly comes in two parts, and are completely disjointed; the first part could, in fact, be safely deleted in its entirety. The flashback sequences are often jarring and disconcerting. The book often gives you the feeling of simply being jerked around, as the author is witholding information because he simply can't think of a better way to generate tension.<br />Now, there is some good stuff in here, mostly in the realm of atmosphere. The whole post-apocolyptic &quot;is it earth or not?&quot; is fairly compelling. Jake's origins are facinating to consider, if meaningless in the scope of the book because they are never developed. The setup surrounding &quot;19&quot; is interesting, although again there is zero payoff. On balance some neat stuff, but it just doesn't go anywhere.<br />Anyway, I am torn as to whether to bother with the second book. I'm told the series improves dramtically, and there was some stuff in the first book that I'd like to see where he's going with. On balance, though, I really don't want to get sucked into a massive 5-book epic that I'll end up reading simply out of spite to see how it turns out. So I dunno. I'll probably end up reading more, but as of now it's against my better judgement.	2003-11-16
US	52965794	R3UR2OHJ0B7QHO	0786915501	633963573	Dungeons & Dragons Player's Handbook: Core Rulebook 1	Books	3	7	8	N	N	A lot of good stuff, some (significant) holes	D&D 3E is a massive improvement over previous editions in a number of ways ... D&D has finally embraced skills, a big plus; a lot of the arbitrary and annoying restrictions of previous editions have been eliminated; the whole thing has been streamlined greatly at a fundamental level (there is still a lot of rules grit - attacks of opportunity anyone? - but this has always been the case, and by using a much cleaner and less arbitrary basic system, the game is now more intuitive).<br />The problem with D&D 3e is that it requires a *lot* of work on the part of the gamemaster. This is not a ready-to-play game by any stretch, unlike WotC's Star Wars d20, say. You have to go to some lengths to create a campaign setting, and realistically you're going to have to throw some of those arbitrary restriction back in. Why? Because D&D 3e has some significant imbalances, and you're likely to be playing with one player who is going to be looking for rules loopholes to create an unbalanced character. A big culprit here is the multi-classing combined with the fact that many classes are front-loaded with a lot of cool abilities at first level, so it's not unusual to find characters with 3 or 4 classes so they can cherry-pick low-level abilities from each. This is not only aestetically displeasing and unbalancing, but makes it impossible to keep a coherent character vision. The prestige classes are a cool and interesting feature, but are for the most part egregiously broken and, in the words of a fellow-player, \\"pure munchkinism\\".<br />Another complaint of mine about the system is that characters are simply too hard to make distinctive; the only real tool you have is this problematic multi-classing, and that is at best a blunt instrument. The Feats are a very cool concept, but not well-balanced with respect to each other so many will simply never show up (and characters who are not Fighters and Wizards acquire them far too slowly to be of much use in distinguishing characters). Characters of some classes (notably Paladins, Monks, Druids, and Barbarians) are going to be essentially indistuinguishable from each other - an 8th level Monk is pretty much an 8th level Monk, and the variance will be quite small. I find the list of which skills can be bought by which classes unduly restrictive and occasionally bordering on the nonsensical. The restrictiveness of the class sytem, and the stereotyped nature of the classes and lack of advancement choices, is to my mind the most significant failing of D&D 3e. Some classes are now almost acceptably flexible: the Fighter has a huge number of choices with all their bonus feats, even if the basic class concept of a heavily armed and armored fighting machine can't be fundamentally altered; Wizards of course have a massive spell list, and can specialise in various schools; Clerics now can pick from a dozen or so dieties, all of which serve to flavor the class; and Rogues have immense numbers of skill points and a wide variety of skills. But if you want somthing a little more specific or flavorful, you're stuck with cookie-cutter classes.<br />Anyway, from a pure systems standpoint, the d20 system is fundamentally a good one, but from a pure gaming perspective it has been done better by other games. I actually like Wizard's Star Wars game better, as it addresses many of the problems I've mentioned here; but that doesn't help you much if you hanker for heroic fantasy. D&D 3e is cool, better than previous editions (often significantly), and is popular because it is so open-ended. It has rules for everthing, and a bazillion skills, feats, spells, monsters, magic items, etc. - everybody is going to find a cool idea in here somewhere that they're ready to run with. All those options don't always work together, though, and the choices are sometimes odd, so be aware that the gamemaster is going to have to do some work for D&D 3e to be truly robust.	2003-07-11
US	52965794	R2PEG7MWNPUMK0	0765341247	648432857	The Man Who Fought Alone	Books	5	9	9	N	Y	Book 4 in the series, but works as a standalone	I have to admit, I had an awfully hard time getting started with this book. I'm a big fan of Stephen R. Donaldson, and with his recent books I realise I have very high expectations and I'm always afraid that this is where he is going to lose his edge and start going downhill.<br />It hasn't happened yet, though. This series of mysteries (The Man Who Killed His Brother, The Man Who Risked His Partner, The Man Who Tries to Get Away, and now The Man Who Fought Alone) is another great series, stylistically quite different from any of his other books. I find it a bit hard to describe: the previous books in the series have been almost-parodies of stock detective-book plots; stock plots that Donaldson has injected with his own unique (often dark) perspective, effectively combined with a frequently light attitude that can really be quite humorous. The Man Who Fought Alone is more straighforward and less humorous than previous books, although the overall feel of the book is a bit lighter as Axebrewder starts to bring his life under control. Donaldon has managed to work the martial arts theme quite well too, with a look inside the world or martial arts competition which is both interesting and manages to develop good characters. This is what always draws me to Stephen R. Donalson's books, the wonderfully textured and developed characters, each with their own strengths and foibles and, well, character that really stands out in a genre that is not know for such things.<br />Now, the start of the book is a bit slow, and it's overall not quite as tight as previous entries in the series. The first few chapters will probably have a few long-time Donaldson fans rolling their eyes a bit as old Axebrewder goes on his lengthy &quot;woe is me&quot; bit. After this slightly rocky start, though, the book really does take off and it thoroghly engrossed me. It's not quite the best in the series, but the series is quite good and The Man Who Fought Alone is highly recommended. I'm glad that it looks like the whole series is being re-issued in hardback under Stephen R. Donaldson's real name (they were previously published under a pseudonym, Reed Stephens); they've been hard-to-get for some time and given his success, this is long overdue.	2002-11-04
US	52965794	R2PE6EYFO92QAY	0385503954	977000479	Atonement: A Novel	Books	4	48	55	N	Y	Brilliant in spots, some overall issues	The first two parts of Atonement are brilliant.<br />Part One features an inside look at a somewhat benignly dysfunctional early 20th-Century upper-class British family. There are segments written from the point of view of virtually every family member, and McEwan manages to powerfully convey the lifestyle and attitudes of not just the Tallis family, but of a segment of English society that really resonated for me. With the exception of a couple of minor passages that are a bit overwraught, the writing is wonderfully efficient, with everything having a place and importance, but with an effective pacing that isn't hurried.<br />Part Two features the experiences of one of the main characters (Robbie) in France, 1940, during the Dunkirk evactuation. This experience is apparently based on the letters from actual participants, and it shows in a real authenticity that makes it hard to believe that the author really *wasn't* there. This section really is better than a lot of non-fiction writing on the war, and like the first section, really manages to capture a time, place, and a real person caught in it.<br />Part Three is where the novel starts to fray a bit at the edges. We get another wonderful descriptive bit with the main character, Briony, and her experience as a nurse in a wartime hospital. But, it also starts to reveal what I believe is the key weakness of the book, and that's in the characters. All the wonderful setup done in part one (and to a lesser degree part 2) starts to fail to pay off here, as the characters seem to have been cast by their experiences in the first part - their development seems to abrubtly stop there despite just entering the primes of their lives. There is a scene between Briony, Robbie, and Cecilia that feels especially contrived. As it turns out, perhaps this particular scene is *supposed* to feel contrived! But that leads us too...<br />The last part (only about 15 pages!) is the most intruiging and also, to me, the least successful. Because as it turns out, despite the quality of the writing in the first sections, Atonement is a gimmick book. There are significant signals as to the nature of the novel throughout the first 3 parts, but it's unlikely to be enough to reveal the truth to all but the most attentive of readers. I think most will clearly realize that it's a novel-within-a-novel (and McEwen does some really interesting things here, with the style of the different sections undergoing important changes as the novelist-within-the-novelist matures), but there is more, and it's that &quot;more&quot; that causes some problems in interpreting the book. As it turns out (trying here to be somewhat circumspect), the novel is not *about* Atonement, it *is* Atonement, and is really *about* the writer's craft. The details of this &quot;surprise ending that makes you rethink the entire book&quot; not only really didn't work for me, but actually caused me to devalue the novel as a whole and walk away somewhat unsatisfied. When Atonement was &quot;about&quot; the trauma of growing up as a girl in a repressive English household in a repressive society, or the struggle for survival in a war zone or sanity in a hospital treating the mass of war wounded, it had power for me. When it turned out to &quot;just&quot; be &quot;about&quot; an application of the writer's craft, it lost a great deal of its resonance (and it seemed to needlessly aggrandize the power of the writer, although I suppose this point is open to interpretation - perhaps this just reflects Briony's desparation). Anyway, there was just no emotional payoff on all of the really powerful events many of the characters experience, just a small intellectual one on the nature of writing, and not being a writer myself, all of a sudden the relevance of the book to me seemed to rapidly fade. Regardless of how good the first 300 pages were, it's the last few that leave the lasting impression.<br />This ending is somewhat unfortunate, because after a slightly slow start, the book is frequently very well-written and really did keep me engrossed through most of it. And the meta-nature of the novel within a novel is a very interesting premise that is well-executed until the very end.<br />So I do recommend this book for the brilliant work in the first two parts, and part of the third - they really are that good. And the novel-within-a-novel format is well-executed and interesting. It's just a shame that the payoff is an intellectual unravelling of threads and motivations and analysis of writing rather than somthing with real emotional power.	2002-04-08
US	52965794	RNHT3K857ET2C	074322454X	867939499	Band of Brothers: E Company, 506th Regiment, 101st Airborne from Normandy to Hitler's Eagle's Nest	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Eminently readable	This is unquestionably the best book by Stephen Ambrose that I have read, in the main because it's pretty honest about what it is and what it isn't. Band of Brothers clearly isn't trying to be a \\"serious\\" history of WWII or the 101st Airborne. Ambrose set out to chronicle the experiences of the members of E Company, 506th Regiment, 101st Airborne from training through their return home, and in this he does a fabulous job. The work done in interviewing and rationalising the stories of all these different men, and turning it into a tight, engrossing, readable book is very impressive. Reading Band of Brothers really does feel like sitting down with the members of E Company and having them recount their story in a crisp, clear, and rivetting way.<br />I do have some minor qualms about the book though, and thus only four stars. It has to my mind a bit of a war-as-action-adventure feel. While the grime of war is mentioned, and even examined at times, Ambrose tends to be upbeat and tends to keep the unpleasentness at arms length. After all, we know all the main characters will survive because if they hadn't, there would be no story or they wouldn't be main characters. His narrative simply lacks the bite of, say, Guy Sajer's The Forgotten Soldier. Ambrose tends to look upon the members of E Company virtually as gods - perhaps a not unfounded opinion, but one that certainly interferes with his judgement on several occasions. Maybe it's just me, but I think a more critical look at events would actually make the members of E Company look even better, as Band of Brothers doesn't do as good a job as Keegan, Bergerud, or Sajer at conveying how hard and dangerous things really were.<br />It is important to remember that Band of Brothers does lack the critical angle of serious history. This is not a random infantry company, but one selected very specifically in retrospect. Other than interviews, Ambrose really only draws on two sources (!), one of which is the regimental history (while there are a fair number of footnotes in the book, they seem mostly for show as they get rather monotonous). In his landmark Face of Battle, written some 15 years before Band of Brothers, John Keegan agonises over the role of the military historian, and how a man who has never heard a shot fired in anger can convey any sense of \\"what it's like\\" to be in battle in his brilliant introduction to that book. Suffice to say, Ambrose is not troubled by such difficult questions and falls feet-first into some of the traps Keegan describes.<br />Bearing all this firmly in mind, however, and not trying to take this book for somthing which it isn't, Band of Brothers is still excellent and very highly recommended (moreso than the HBO miniseries, which didn't really capture the strengths of the book I thought). As somthing somewhere between reminiscence and history, this will give you a basic appreciation of what it was like for an elite, highly-motivated squad during World War II. I'd just recommend supplementing it perhaps with John Keegan's Six Armies in Normandy or The Face of Battle, both of which provide brilliant and critical insight into the nature of battle.	2002-02-26
US	52965794	R2QY9LIKCCTMTN	0813338697	226826039	Fire In The Sky: The Air War In The South Pacific	Books	4	6	6	N	Y	Facinating book, but where the heck was the editor?	A lot of the content in Fire in the Sky is great, in many ways a worthy successor to Bergerud's first-rate Touched by Fire and Red Thunder, Tropic Lightning. Even pretty knowledgeable readers will learn a lot from reading this book, and Bergerud presents the air war in a clear, dispassionate, and intelligent manner that really allowed me to understand the conflict in the Pacific at a level that I never had before.<br />All that having been said, this book is an incredible case study for a near-total editorial failure. The narration veers into meandering pointlessness for pages upon pages on many occasions. Huge sections are almost completely unfoucussed. Where Bergerud retains his focus and has a point, the effect is excellent, and produces a result that falls just short of Keegan. But brevity is the soul of wit, and where he doesn't, the whole thing becomes a morass.<br />It's interesting to watch the progression: Red Thunder, Tropic Lighting had tight, crisp prose and a focussed narrative, and was easily Bergerud's best book. Touched with Fire was detailed and insightful, and was absolutely first-rate despite it's tendancy to go on a bit and repeat himself a bit too often. Fire in the Sky, though, has really gone over the edge. To get the most of this book (and there really is quite a lot in there to come away with), you really  have to be willing to either wade through a lot of pointless rambling or be willing to skip over large sections.<br />Don't get me wrong, I'm giving this book 4 stars, because there is a lot of awesome content and when it's controlled, the writing is very good. This book clearly had the potential to be a definitive work with a strong editorial hand, which is how highly I think of a lot of the content. Unfortunately, the hand was clearly missing.	2002-01-02
US	52965794	R2SUYSPP20GZES	061812764X	396726984	J.R.R. Tolkien: Author of the Century	Books	5	11	15	N	N	For the serious Tolkien fan, absolutely recommended	Perhaps the single most important reason I loved this book is that now I can explain more coherently to the uninitiated why Tolkien is such a great author. I think a lot of us have an intuitive understanding of why we like the Lord of the Rings so much, but it defies simple explanation. Shippey dives into the tremendous subtlety of the books, explaining much of the background, many of the inspirations, and generally getting into the mind of Tolkien and thinking deeply about the Lord of the Rings. This is tremendously refreshing, since Tolkien's works have managed to escape serious study by being looked down upon in most academic circles, and yet being subtle and complex enough that those of us without a serious literary, philosophical, or philological background could certainly use the help.<br />I have only two complaints about the book, and I mention them only to make it easier to read. Firstly, much like Senior's analysis of Donaldson's Covenent books (also recommended, and Shippey cites him - although amusingly Shippey seems to have as weak a grasp of Donaldson as Senior does of Tolkien), the first chapter gets a little bogged down in a rather irrelevant and  needlessly defensive justification of the fantasy genre. This is emminently skipable. Secondly, once Shippey gets through the Lord of the Rings and starts wading into the Silmarillion, things get a little obscure and tedious even for the serious fan (and I have even read and enjoyed the Silmarillion).<br />Still, this is in contrast to the remainder of the book which is wonderfully and amazingly insightful, and very helpful for truly appreciating and understanding one of the 20th Century's great masterpieces. This is the best attempt at literary criticism of such a popular book that I have read. Anyone who has read the trilogy more than once should absolutely read this book, and it gets the highest possible recommendation from me.	2001-12-26
US	52965794	RW7C6BIBP8QIG	0345438337	74332503	Invoking Darkness (Babylon 5: The Passing of the Techno-Mages, Book 3)	Books	3	4	5	N	Y	Average conclusion for a very good series	I really liked the first two books in this series, which were amongst the best of the various Babylon 5 books. The last entry looses it a bit though, lavishing a lot of time on a simple re-telling of several episodes from the show, and lacking a solid payoff for all the good work in the previous two volumes. This book kept me hooked, thinking &quot;hey, not much is happening, but the tension is mounting, we've got to hit the payoff soon ...&quot;, but the final resolution of the Galen's internal conflicts is a serious let-down, more of a slight-of-hand really, a trick befitting a techno-mage who realised she had painted herself into a corner.<br />I suspect any Babylon 5 fan who has read and enjoyed the first two books in the series (as I did) will read this one, and it's certainly not nearly as disappointing as Keyes' &quot;Final Reckoning&quot;, but there was really only sufficient material here for two books and Cavelos would have done well to leave it at that.	2001-12-26
US	52965794	RMCPVE9CJB8RJ	0743204131	197934308	A Vast Conspiracy: The Real Story of the Sex Scandal That Nearly Brought Down a President	Books	4	7	9	N	Y	Interesting, but too long	I started out enjoying this book. While not denying a modest democratic slant (an opinion that is at least borne out by the facts), it's still a very well-balanced account of all the various Clinton &quot;scandals&quot; and the legal wrangling that surrounded them. The characters involved in the whole episode are well-presented and the story well-told. There certainly is a comic element, as most of the characters - up to and including the President - are utterly hopeless in one way or another and Toobin rather mercilessly runs them down for it.<br />That said, I just simply lost steam around page 200. The problem is just that the entire story is so utterly banal and sordid. Most of Clinton's adversaries are utterly beyond social redemption. There are relatively few meaningful conclusions that take more than a few incidents and a couple pages to state (one interesting episode is a forshadowing of the Supreme Court's involvement in the 2000 elections, the appellate court that ruled on whether or not a sitting President could be sued split along party lines - with the Republicans voting for and Democrats against, in direct opposition to their traditional positions). After reading some 25 pages of descriptions of Linda Tripp and her taping of the remarkably hopeless Monica Lewinsky, one starts to lose their stomach for that sort of thing.<br />At any rate, this is an important episode which deserves an honest, straightforward treatment. The only real flaw in this book is that it really is about twice as long as it should be. Still, if you can deal with that, it is recommended.	2001-10-23
US	52965794	R37I4S8ZLC2HLG	0345384687	858634254	The Guns of the South	Books	2	4	9	N	N	Engagingly written but very contrived plot	The good stuff in Guns of the South include a clearly well-researched setting, well-written, authentic-sounding dialog, and some fairly sympathetic characters (this is the Good Robert E. Lee from pre-Gettysburg, not the later, Less Sympathetic Robert E. Lee). Unlike most of the books in this genre, it's actually a surprisingly well-written book.<br />The problem for me was that the time travel drives essentially everything in the book. This is not a &quot;minimal-impact&quot; insertion; the Rivington Men not only come in and rearm the entire confederacy wit AK-47s, they also provide Robert E. Lee with a perfect retrospective on the Wilderness campaign, set up a large colony in the past (including computers, electric lights, and machine guns), get involved in political affairs (including an assassination attempt with Uzis on full auto that somehow misses its intended target but slaughters innocent bystanders in large numbers), transport huge quantities of documentation from the future, and generally treat the Confederacy like the Wild West.<br />All this means that the real people in the story, up to and including Robert E. Lee, are simply pawns to the time travellers. Nothing that happens is uninfluenced by their activities. This deprives the interesting ideas in the book of much of their impact. Turtletaub even manages to identify some crucial dividing points among a newly-established Confederacy (chiefly, what might happen if a pro-Slavery state were to choose to withdraw from a newly-independent Confederacy over Robert E. Lee's attempted gradual emancipation - something blatantly contrary to the Confederate constitution), but he bales even on these by simply having the characters decide to agree, without debate, when the &quot;wrong-thinking&quot; Confederates realize they have been manipulated by the Rivington men. It's as if one of the rules of the books is that real Confederates don't really disagree.<br />It's as if Turtletaub asked himself, &quot;what do I need to do to give this book a happy ending of the Confederates?&quot;, and came up with an influx of AK-47s, hard currency (i.e., gold - the inevitable inflation is never mentioned), and a galvanizing (but beatable) set of really bad guys from the future. This is not a novel, or serious historical thought, it's just something Turtletaub came up with one day.<br />So, despite the authentic feel of the background characters, it all feels very contrived and unconvincing; this is more of an ego-massage for the Confederate sympathizer than an interesting book.	2001-08-09
US	52965794	R3BKJ96VU68DIK	0345435397	595671727	Darth Maul: Shadow Hunter (Star Wars)	Books	3	3	3	N	N	Not bad, but not compelling	I really enjoyed Greg Bear's Rogue Planet, and was hoping for more of the same from Mr. Reaves' Shadow Hunter. Sadly, although a valiant try that succeeds beyond expectation in one specific area, as a whole it was not to be.<br />The problem here is that the character and background of Darth Maul remains almost competely mysterious. Perhaps that's as it should be, but the title of the book is &quot;Darth Maul: Shadow Hunter&quot;. As far as his character is concerned, we basically get the equivient of about 3 photographs from his early life; nothing close to a compelling (or even at all interesting, really) characterization or drama.<br />Not that we routinely expect gripping character studies from Star Wars, but other books have done OK; and where the characters in these novels are frequently weak to the point of anemic, at least the better ones make up for it in plot. Shadow Hunter is weak here too unfortunately: Maul is hunting down 3 individuals with potential foreknowledge of the Theed invasion, individuals who should be no match for a Sith - and yet they manage to elude him in an increasingly bizzare and improbable set of adventures in which their survival is more a matter of luck and circumstance than real skill - and so is rather less than compelling.<br />The not-insignificant bright spot in all this is the character of Darsha, a young female padawan who intervenes to attempt to preserve the heros from Maul, and who is a very interesting, likeable character - probably the best all-new character in any of the Star Wars books I've read. She has to deal with her own failings, and eventually face Maul - with predictable results - but even though we know she is not exactly a master of her craft and is doomed from the get-go, it's hard not to be touched by her idealism and heroic stoicism. Something I wouldn't think to say about a Star Wars book - a really quite good, well-done tragic figure.<br />Realistically, though, our sympathy with Darsha isn't quite enoughto salvage the rest of the book from mere adequacy. Give the Maul character a little better treatment, and make the plot more adventure and less of a random-event with an improbable bail-out feel, and this is an excellent book, a best-in-the-genre type. Sadly, though, it's just not there, and in the end there isn't really enough content for the book's 305 pages.	2001-02-26
US	52965794	R2DT2SNDW27IWU	0440215269	627647641	Soldat: Reflections of a German Soldier, 1936-1949	Books	3	34	43	N	Y	Interesting but not compelling	Sigfried Knappe's book is interesting for what it is: a personal history of WWII. Don't be fooled by the copy on the back of the book, though - it provides relatively little insight into the psycology of WWII Germany, the operation of the German Army, or the reality of Soviet prison camps. In fact, even the title is somewhat misleading ... while Knappe was a soldier in that he was employed by the Wermacht, he spent relatively little time during the war actually doing any shooting.<br />The problem here is that Knappe spent his life as an artillery staff officer, and while he nominally served in all those campaigns, he saw relatively little combat (none at all in Italy; only a few days in France; more in the invasion of Russia, but he was wounded early in Typoon, before things got really tough; and then none again until the last days of the 3rd Reich). His service in the late war is mostly as operations officer. On the one hand, this *is* quite interesting if you are curious about logisitcal details of the German Army; if you are interested in combat conditions and operational details, though, you'll need to look elsewhere. Knappe was a staff officer who lacked real decision-making authority, so you won't get either good high-level coverage of the campaigns, nor will you get the gritty details.<br />Additionally, the writing in this book has some issues. For one, the line between Knappe's contributions and Brusaw's ghostwriting is in some places clearly drawn, which raises questions about the areas where it isn't. For example, early in the book, distances and such are stated in English units; most of the middle in metric; and later on, metric with English conversions (Knappe, as a German, would presumably only use metric, and certainly would only have used metric in his diaries). Secondly, the book was apparently written mostly from diaries, and the style shows; the writing tends towards long, rambling narratives, and it tends to be unfocussed. We get long sections of realtively uninteresting material, and short sections on crucial campaigns and battles that cry out for some more supporting detail.<br />Bottom line, this is a book that will be of some interest to die-hard WWII buffs, but I doubt it will be of that much interest to most people. I hate to give a marginal review to a book like this, which probably has merit just for being what it is, but time is short and there are a lot of better books out there. Soldat hardly stands up in comparison to Guy Sajer's excellent (if somewhat mysterious) The Forgotten Soldier. That book is more compelling, more interesting, and far better written.	2001-01-02
US	52965794	R24MJFRPYMSXZL	0553580531	409245980	Gates of Fire: An Epic Novel of the Battle of Thermopylae	Books	4	3	6	N	Y	Great, entertaining read	A lot of things really come together to make this book entertaining: an excellent, authentic historical setting; a gripping story; engaging characters; and excellent writing. Mr. Pressfield really brings these ancient characters to life with a sense of persepective that feels honest - by the end of the book Alexandros, Polynikes, Dienekes, &quot;Rooster&quot;, and the rest are tremendously well-developed, intelligent, and real characters. You may not symapthise with them; these are, after all, bloody-minded Spartans living in a violent world - but this gives them some authenticity. These are not the characters of some of the later Colleen McCullogh &quot;Masters of Rome&quot; entries, who often just feel like 20th Century Americans in an ancient setting. Gates of Fire offers a real glimpse into Spartan culture. <br />Combine this with an epic and detailed historical setting (Thermopolyae and the attendant ascencion of the Greeks over the Persians) and a writing style that is crisp but intelligent and extremely readable, and you have a book that comes highly reccomended.<br />Now, I'll grant you that occasionally the plot is a little hokey, as other reviewers have commented on; the secret of Leonidis that is revealed at the end got a kind of &quot;uh ... yeah&quot; chuckle from me, and Dienekes intellectual study of fear occasionally didn't wash. But these are rare moments and somewhat orthogonal to what is outstanding about the book. This is great historical fiction, up there with the First Man in Rome and I, Claudius.<br />The book is written from the perspective of Xeones, the sole Spartan survivor of Thermopolyae, telling his life story to a Persian historian. There is a nice touch at the end, in which the Persian historian finally actually meets a character (&quot;Rooster&quot;) from Xeones' narrative and has to reconcile the fact that Rooster is perhaps not exactly as Xeones described him. It's just a passing moment in the story, but I thought it was a nice touch, a note of Mr. Pressman's respect for history.	2000-10-04
US	52965794	R2AP7O2M99B926	0345428447	87344379	Vector Prime (Star Wars: The New Jedi Order, Book 1)	Books	3	11	14	N	N	Not too bad, but definately 2nd tier	When talking about Star Wars books, there are two different scales: the universe of Star Wars fiction, and the universe of general fiction.<br />For Star Wars fiction, this really isn't too bad. We've got a new enigmatic enemy, and the relatively new characters of Jacen, Jaina, and Anakin. The plot is not the traditional Rebels vs. super-weapon-wielding (ex) Imperials. Sure, Salvatore is in way over is head when trying to have his characters work with the philosophy of the Force or deep emotional crises, but it still reads OK. If you just want to read a Star Wars book, this is reasonably good. It's no Greg Bear, Timothy Zahn, or Kathy Tyres, but you could do a lot worse.<br />Ultimately, though, this reads like a weak Star Trek episode: 43 minutes of meandering plot followed by 5 minutes of resolution, all with no character development. Sure, lots of (sometimes traumatic) stuff happens to the characters, but they hardly develop as people. War of the Rats had vastly better and more believable characters, and that was only a couple steps above pulp itself. The death of a major character is handled particuarly poorly, being both not very dramatic and too late in the book to have any meaningful influence on the characters; this whole plot line could have been written by a 12th grade English student, which leaves a sour taste in my mouth over the whole thing.<br />And then the final question ... is there nobody in the galaxy who doesn't have Skywalker DNA who is competant? I mean, we're talking 20+ years post-Star Wars, and the whole cast is still out there risking their lives to save the galaxy. I mean, haven't they done enough already? Luke is a Jedi Knight, so that's his job (maybe), but surely Han &amp; Leia  and their family deserve a break?<br />I'd recommend Greg Bear's Rouge Planet as a good Star Wars book. This is more readable Star Wars pulp. It's not bad, it's likely to keep you resaonably engaged for at least a few of the 390 pages, but there is way too muchirrelevant stuff in there, the characters are much too weak, and it's not somthing I felt good about when I was done. By about page 280 I just wanted to be finished. I certainly won't be reading any of the following books.	2000-10-01
US	52965794	R1AC1DSQXEE6T7	055358135X	298857171	War of the Rats	Books	4	9	11	N	N	Gripping, well-plotted, but light fare	This book is a great read. The comparison that comes to mind immediately  is Tom Clancy's Patriot Games, but with even tighter plotting and the added  bonus of a well-done historical setting. It's been quite a while since I  have been so thoroghly sucked in by a book. Mr. Robbins depiction of the  decimated Stalingrad is well-done.<br />What makes it more pot-boiler than  great historical fiction, though, are two things I think. First off, the  writing style is pretty basic. You'll rip through this book in no time,  even at almost 500 pages. Secondly, the characters are rather weak. Their  contemplation of life and death in Stalingrad is interesting reading,  really quite good, but there is no sense of actual character development.  And Mr. Robbins pays only lip service to the immense psychological stress  of war. All of the characters seem to survive more or less emotionally  unscathed, which seems unlikely. While that's OK for the genre this book is  part of, it doesn't add to the novel's credibility. My impression of the  true violence and bitterness of the struggle in Stalnigrad really isn't  represented. Both the Nazis and the Soviets managed to escalate warfare to  new levels of savagry; if you want history, read Anthony Beevor's  &quot;Stalingrad&quot; (which Mr. Robbins credits in his bibliography)  instead.<br />And then there is the ending. I actually didn't have as much of  a problem with it some other reviewers had. The odds of survival for  everyone, especially the Germans in this particular case, are so long that  it didn't bother me especially that the fates of everyone who wasn't  outright killed is left tantalizingly vague. By the time you reach the end  of the book, you really do have a sense of having come through somthing,  that you are a long way from where you started; I think it's reasonable  that it the end it is clear that there is still a long way to go and  everyone's fate is still quite uncertain.<br />So anyway, while it fails a few  ofthe tests as historical fiction, that's really just somthing to bear in  mind as you enjoy the book. As a &quot;historical techno-thriller&quot;,  it's really quite well done. If you like WWII history and if you want  somthing to keep you rivetted for a few days, while presenting a nice  high-level overview of the feel of the battle, this is highly reccomended.  If you want real first-person history, try Guy Sajer's The Forgotton  Soldier instead.	2000-09-06
US	52965794	R1EL7DOB9R86CB	0345333926	120812203	Ringworld (A Del Rey book)	Books	3	2	8	N	Y	Enjoyable read, but really not much there	First for reference, a small digression. In his excellent &quot;The Real  Story&quot;, Stephen R. Donaldson has a small afterword (almost as  interesting as the book itself) in which he talks about the creative  process and how ideas work for him. He has an interesting comment to the  effect that he needs two central ideas to really make a book work,  generally somthing fantastic and somthing mundane. His says that while he  wanted to do a book about a fantasy hero who didn't believe in his  surroundings for some time, he couldn't make it really click until he  combined it with the idea that this hero should be a leper. Most of his  books, from Mordant to The Gap, show this pattern.<br />I thought this was  facinating because I reread Ringworld at about the same time as I reread  The Real Story, and while Ringworld is a fun read, it's clearly a one-idea  book. Now, the one idea - the Ringworld - is a great one. Just look at how  big it is. Unfortunately, though, that's all there is. What Niven's done is  taken this facinating premise and filled it with stock characters and  cranked out an acceptable plot based around this one idea. Other than the  Ringworld, there isn't anything there, which is a shame.<br />So what we end  up with is somthing that is a reasonably enjoyable and eminantly readable,  but hardly engrossing or really satisfying. This isn't to say I don't  reccomend the book, because as lighter filler between more substantial  books, it's quite a good read. Maybe just a notch or two below Asimov's  Foundation Trilogy, but still easily amongst good &quot;classic&quot;  sci-fi. For a book with it's reputation, though, it certainly hasn't  cracked the top tier. Stephen R. Donaldson he is not.	2000-08-14
US	52965794	R2W62V828ZN62V	0553110349	225476603	Reave the Just and Other Tales	Books	4	6	7	N	Y	Shorter, but still Stephen R. Donaldson	Stephen R. Donaldson is, in my opinion, certainly the greatest fantasy writer ever to set pen to paper. I feel a little guilty saying this, because of course I love Tolkien. But Donaldon's works are deeper, more  moving, and - despite often being harsh and burtal in spots - more positive  and optimistic. Where Tolkien revels in the glory days of the past,  Donaldson looks to the future.<br />I enjoyed the short stories in Reave the  Just because they are thematically and stylistically closest to his early  works, mainly the Thomas Covenant books which I still think are by far his  best. If you liked Covenant, these give you a sort of condensed shot of  many of the things that make his earlier novels appealing. From the fool  who falls in love with a lady and looks to the legendary Reave the Just to  save him - only to find out that Reave's power is rather unusual and in the  end he has to save himself; to the man who is cursed by a genie to have all  the people close to him die horribly, this is classic Donaldson, but with a  cleaner style honed by experience. I also liked the variety; the stories in  this collection are not cookie-cutter fantasy but explorations of a variety  of different themes and ideas, approached in different ways with real  imagination.<br />Also worthy of note, what made the Gap and Covenant series  hard to read for many people was not so much the violence, which could be  frequent and graphic, but the rape - which was neither, but obviously could  still be rather difficult to tackle. There is no sex of any kind in any of  these stories, which should make them much more accessible. While I  &quot;enjoyed&quot; his most recent Gap series, in many ways those books  reached a level of brutality I can't deal with repeatedly. These stories  have backed off to being more typical fantasy fare with the Donaldson  trademarks of un-heroic, often disadvantaged characters trying somehow to  come to terms with difficult situations or tortured existances.Aragorn son  of Arathorn, heir to Elendil they most certainly are not.<br />I enjoyed this  book quite a bit and highly reccomend it.	2000-06-16
US	52965794	R214E2G3K76II1	0375700455	841119426	The First World War	Books	4	15	16	N	Y	An excellent introduction to the history of WWI	This book is John Keegan doing what John Keegan does best: presenting eminently readable, thoroghly engaging and thought-provoking military history. As Americans, we tend to get a fairly whitewashed history of WWI  from school and Hollywood. My early education amounted to a cursory  overview plus Paths of Glory and Gallipoli. Both outstanding and compelling  movies, certainly, but not exactly sound historical grounding in a dramatic  and crucial historical period. This book fills in the gap as an excellent  introductory yet serious history of World War I.<br />For me, prior to this  book WWI equalled trench warfare, and the big question was how these people  managed to persist in such unchanging futility for over 4 years. That was  about it. Of course, there is an element of truth there, but the whole  affair is far more complex. The four years of war saw dramatic advances in  tactics and equipment such that warfare in 1918 was barely recognizable  next to warfare in 1914. Keegan helps to enlighten us as to the course of  the war, the horrible problems both leaders and soldiers labored under that  give rise to trench warfare, and the many different attempts to break  it.<br />Keegan's exploration of the causes and after- effects of the war are  typically thoughtful, and I think one of his key strengths is his ability  to bring together military, social, and political history. What I like is  that he manages to discuss these topics at just the right level: detailed  enough to be complete and informative, yet brief enough to be readable.  When he talks about mobilization schedules and the failings of the pre-war  power structures, he gives you enough information to make his points and  point out facinating details, and yet only very rarely get bogged down in  minutiae.<br />John Keegan's writing style can be a little difficult at times.  His average sentence length is a bit on the high side and he does  occasionally abuse commas. The key is just to persist until you've  normalized it. When I first started reading his books, I found the style a  little disconcerting, but once I had read 50 pages or so I had sublimated  it and just enjoyed his fairly lively prose (for history, anyway!).<br />If  you like this book, John Keegan's &quot;The Second World War&quot; is a  similarly excellent &quot;survey history&quot; of WWII, and the first  sections of it compliment this book very nicely.	2000-06-15
US	52965794	RGYI274BXMF4M	0080374379	329455826	The Forgotten Soldier: The Classic WWII Autobiography (Brassey's Commemorative Series WWII)	Books	5	5	7	N	Y	compelling reading	To be honest, I've always been a little bit leery of first-person war autobiographies. When it comes to &quot;saying how it was&quot;, I've actually found historians to be more compelling; John Keegan's The Face of  Battle certainly provides, though research and scholorship, a compelling  and believable account of what it was like to be there, relatively  untainted by bias.<br />This, though, is an exceptionally well-written (or  should that be well-translated? I don't know) account of one man's  experience on the Eastern Front in WWII. In as much as I have read quite a  few books on the Eastern Front, none of them ever presented the reality of  the situation as clearly as The Forgotten Soldier. Or, perhaps I should say  more realistically, attempted to present - as I'm sure those of us who have  never toted a rifle can never really understand what it was like. I have an  intellectual understanding that it was awfully cold out there, but reading  this certainly brings it home in a way that scholarly history can't.<br />The  Forgotten Soldier provides a real human sense of the conflict - not just  the battles but the quest for survival under appalling conditions. In fact,  the descriptions of the battles are not the strongest parts of the book and  the author admits as much in the text. It's the cold, the mud, the  ever-presence of the enemy, standing in line for food, the hope of seeing  home again, and the fear that you will never be able to adapt to  peace.<br />When I was younger, I read a lot of mediocre 50's grade history,  and was taught the same in school. It's the books like this that are such  crucial elements of understanding historical events that never seem to be  taught, at least not in the history most of us get in school. Sure, it must  be admitted that Guy Sajer has his own secrets that he does not divulge in  his book; one reviewer says the book is as interesting for what it doesn't  say as for what it does. I agree this is both true and crucial; ashistory,  it should be coupled with some of the excellent, modern, readable history  such as Anthony Bevor's &quot;Stalingrad&quot;. Nontheless, I don't think  anyone can say they have any understanding of World War II in the East - at  least from the German side - until they have read this book.<br />The real  tragedy is that we don't have an equivilent tome from a Soviet soldier, or  at least not one that's been as widely accepted in the West. While Guy  Sajer's story is compelling, it is important to remember what he  represents. The plight of the Soviet soldiers he was fighting was often  worse, and their life expectancies certainly shorter.	2000-06-15
US	52965794	R9DXBISDGSK8T	0345348680	75353792	The Wounded Land (The Second Chronicles of Thomas Covenant, Book 1)	Books	5	7	9	N	Y	Very different from the first series, just as great	First off, if you haven't read the first Thomas Covenant trilogy (Lord Foul's Bane, The Illearth War, and The Power that Preserves), I reccomend you do that first. Mainly, it's an amazing an tremendous work. Also, you'll  get a lot of background that is necessary to appreciate the second trilogy,  and it's hard to really feel Covenant's sense of loss and despair at the  despoiling of the Land without having seen it when it was beautiful.<br />The  Second Trilogy of Thomas Covenant is very different thematically from the  first. The question of dream vs. reality is disposed of almost immediately  in The Wounded Land (and arguably it was just a plot trick in the first  trilogy anyway, so we could comfortably both despise and sympathise with  Thomas Covenant). All that the Council represents has been shattered and  the strength of their convictions must now be restored by Thomas Covenant  and a few friends. He must come to terms with what he has lost, who he is,  and what the Land truly meant to him. Linden Avery, his new companion from  the real world who is drawn in when Covenant is summoned, is herself a  flawed character - but she is a product of events she could not control. In  a reverse of the original trilogy, the story of her anguish, the truth she  must come to terms with, and her role in the fate of the Land is drawn out  slowly, over the course of all three books.<br />This second trilogy is more  personal than the first. In the first trilogy Thomas Covenant is profoundly  influnced by the Land and all the people around him, and must reconcile  their  strength with his own anguish, eventually confronting his own  failings to earn redemption; in the second everything the Land was, is  lost. Linden and Covenant must personally struggle to restore it despite  their own weakness and imperfection, with the help of a group of wandering  Giants, the always loyal but subtly changed Bloodguard, and two natives of  the Land. Wheras in the first book we know Covenanthas a latent power  which if he could only discover and unleash, he could defeat Foul, in the  Wounded Land Covenant's power is growing out of control and any release  could shatter the Arch of Time and give Foul victory - effectively  rendering Covenant's White Gold powerless.<br />Everyone must make tremendous  sacrifices in their struggle to see the land  restored, and the final  resolution in White Gold Wielder is amazing, thrilling, tremendously  moving, and ultimately incredibly satisfying - making these books arguably  the greatest work of fantasy literature ever written, eclipsing even the  remarkable works of Tolkien for depth and power.	2000-06-15
US	52965794	R1BQ2ZE6KTER9R	0802713432	654799136	Galileo's Daughter: A Historical Memoir of Science, Faith, and Love	Books	3	18	21	N	Y	An intruiging biography of Gallileo, but oddly disappointing	After hearing such rave reviews about this book, I expected it to be more about - oddly enough - Gallileo's daughter. Unfortunately, it's not, really.<br />What the book is, though, is a facinating biography of Gallileo.  For that alone, it's worth the read. It's easy to forget what difficulties  he labored under and what a staggering intellectual contribution he made;  certainly the father of modern science. This is the majority of the book,  and this much is well-written, engaging, and interesting. It's very unusual  to find history that is all these things.<br />Somehow, though, the parts that  bring in his daughter are much less successful and just not that  interesting. We really learn very little about her through her letters, and  that's all we get to see of her. We find that she was deeply religious, she  adored her father, and that he found her a sustaining presence, but the  nature of this relationship is largely unexplored and unexplained; we just  get the superficial expression - and that only from one side (Gallileo's  letters to his daughter are lost), and with massive gaps. It's like  listening to only one side of a conversation, and that only intermittantly.  Plus, many of her letters are mainly focused on domestic details which are,  sad to say, rather boring. I guess after all the hype I had expected or  hoped for more exploration of Suor Maria Celeste's character, perhaps  filling in the gaps and exploring the themes &quot;I Claudius&quot;-style,  but no dice. Since the communication is so sparse, the &quot;Science,  Faith, and Love&quot; elements do less well than the &quot;historical  memoir&quot; (whatever that means).<br />Anyway, this is a hard book to rate  because I did quite enjoy it for it's &quot;Biography of Gallileo&quot;  element, and as such I might give it 4 or even 5 stars. But as a book  rather grandiosely titled &quot;Gallileo's Daughter: A Historical Memoir of  Science, Faith, and Love&quot;, I found it fell rather short of thatmark;  it's attempts to delve into the character of Suor Maria Celeste were not  particularly successful in my opinion.	2000-06-09
US	52965794	R15X4S22YOBO6B	0345435389	753640827	Rogue Planet (Star Wars)	Books	4	34	40	N	N	Wow - surprisingly good	The Star Wars books are not exactly associated with literary greatness in my mind. The first ones were reasonably good (Kathy Tyres was quite good; Zahn could be rather tiresome occasionally, but was always a good read),  but things went downhill rather quickly starting when they allowed Keven J.  Anderson to set pen to paper, never a good idea.<br />So anyway, I haven't  been back to Star Wars books in quite some time - apparently, I picked a  good time to try again. Unlike previous installments, this book is not  obsessed with super-weapons and cartoon heros, but gives fair play to  actual dialog, characters, and plot. Mr. Bear has done an outstanding job  of capturing the characters of Anakin Skywalker and Obi-Wan Kenobi. As an  added bonus, this is not just another serial but adds some useful and  interesting back-story to the Phantom Menace, and should temporarily sate  the appetites of those of us waiting with a certain measure of impatience  for Episode II.<br />It's not perfect, and certainly isn't threatening to  become literature or anything. The whole plot with the building of Anakin's  and Obi-Wan's ship is extended a bit past its useful life, and the writing  is somewhat uneven. But these are really quite minor quibbles; almost  irrelevant, really, for what the book is trying to be. For the true Star  Wars fan who has been disappointed with some of the recent dreck, the  faithful characters and well-developed plot should more than enough.	2000-06-06
US	52965794	R3JSJW52571R3B	0670882178	132792490	The Age of Spiritual Machines: When Computers Exceed Human Intelligence	Books	1	28	41	N	Y	A book built on fundamentally flawed assumptions	This was a book so torturous, so sensationalistic, it was a brutally difficult read. Unfortunately, the premises of this book are so crucially flawed for all but the most fundamentalist believer in the power of  technology, it's almost a complete waste of time.<br />Kurzweil's claim of  thinking machines for less than $1000 within 20 years is clearly  outlandish, obviously designed to make headlines. Even if the hardware  continues to accelerate at his predicted rate, a somewhat dubious  assumption, he doesn't even seriously address simple software engineering  issues. In fact, virtually all of his assumptions and analogies have an  excessive technological zeal and don't hold up to any real questioning; it  is, after all, easy to believe you could create a human-equivilant computer  if you have an extremely low opinion of human intelligence (which Kurtzweil  does, apparently).<br />I think one of the advantages of a liberal education  is that it teaches you not to try to see every problem and issue within the  narrow scope of your own specialty, and it gives you a certain respect for  history. Kurtzweil seems to think of absolutely everything (including art  and music) as purely technological developments and engineering problems,  and seems to be possessed by the late-19th century belief that  (technological) progress is not only inevitable but the driving force of  our existance; i.e., his stated belief is that technology is simply a  seamless continuation of evolution, inevitable and involuntary.<br />If we  assume human intelligence were really this trivial (in one telling example,  Kurtzweil mentions the harpsichord as being obsolete in the same way as a  manual typewriter - perhaps not completely untrue, but clearly not a  particularly compelling analogy on which to build an arts-as-technology  argument), then perhaps we could develop computers of human intelligence  just by giving them a motivation for continuous self-improvement. Despite  Kurzweil's fervor,it is not so simple to say this with any real  conviction. In order to predict with confidence that we can create a being  of human intelligence, we would have to understand what we would be  creating. Kurtzweil's assumptions, that everything we do is technology- and  progress-oriented, don't pass logical muster for me (can you really believe  that Mozart composed for some evolutionary advantage?); since he rapidly  convinced me he doesn't have any more of a clue as to the nature of life or  human intelligence than the rest of us, in my opinion it makes all of his  outlandish claims of being able to create somthing as good or superior  unsustainable and the book superflous.	2000-06-06
US	52965794	RD9N7GUC2P4Y6	1582430659	97700501	Deus Lo Volt!: Chronicle of the Crusades	Books	3	22	29	N	Y	Not what I expected	Just to be clear on this point, Deus Lo Volt! is not a novel per se (or at least, not what I would think of as a novel). It certainly has nothing in common stylistically with the better historical fiction of Graves or the  First Man in Rome. It is told in the style of a period history, perhaps as  a piece of oral history written down. I must admit I found the style (and  the total absence of dialog) rather tedious. For example, every other  chapter seems to end with a lengthy rationalization (a.k.a.  &quot;rant&quot;) on the justness of the Crusades. Such text is also  liberally sprinkled throughout the text. Authentic, perhaps, but I became  rather tired of reading it after a while (and I think that seeing as we all  now live in the 20th Century, most readers will probably agree with me on  this point if nothing else).<br />When I first started reading the book, I  found it tedious, boring, and unreadable. The &quot;period recitation of  history&quot; style (with zero actual dialog) makes all the characters and  events seem distant, indistinguishable, and flat, as if vainly trying to  peer through the mist. Even the narrator is a distant, poorly-defined  character.<br />And yet, I do still give it 3 stars - because despite all  this, the oddity is that the book did end up capturing my attention. I can  only assume it's because of my near-complete ignorance of the Crusades and  of the entire time period. Despite a style which could charitably be called  &quot;difficult&quot;, a lot of stuff does happen, and being such a crucial  event in history it is interesting. If you can get into the zone with the  unusual perspective, it's an interesting book. My first attempt at reading  it I couldn't find it and couldn't even make it through 50 pages; second  try, though, I was taken in. Even if it's not going to make my Top N list  this year.<br />Still, even if it is worth trying, I'm not sure this is not a  book I would reccomend buying. Check it out of the library first (I'm told  these still do exist in many areas of the country; here in the heart of  Silicon Valley, I wouldn't know).	2000-06-06
US	52965794	R2Z6GB0DT6ASUL	0399145087	636904914	Black Notice (A Scarpetta Novel)	Books	1	2	2	N	Y	Absolutely Dreadful	OK, so the &quot;Black Notice&quot; of the title is a dead body that shows up in the first couple of chapters. By page 150 they still haven't even  finished the autopsy. The plot is buried in layers of irrelevant and  tedious detail presented with a tortured writing style.<br />If that weren't  bad enough, the majority of the first half of the book is dedicated not to  this intruiging story line, but - and I'm not kidding here - to a  burocratic power struggle amongst egotistical civil servants. I cannot  remember every having read a more tedious, uninspiring, lengthy and  pointless subplot (although I haven't read anything by Tom Clancy  recently). And this whole subplot is based on the premise of a computer  security breach that even the most novice user of AOL would find  laughable.<br />Throw in a cast of annoying, unsympathetic characters (not  even Kay or Mariano are even the least bit endearing), most of whom are  unbelievable to boot, and you get a read that is tiresome and  pointless.<br />Worst book I've read in quite some time.	1999-11-01
US	52965794	RVBWPNCBBSH4V	0553297988	797236535	Jedi Search (Star Wars: The Jedi Academy Trilogy, Vol. 1)	Books	1	3	5	N	N	Absolutely Dire	Talk about a thin, unimaginative plot, hopeless characters, and a thoroghly pedestrian style. For me, Timothy Zahn's Star Wars books were  guilty pleasures, sort of the Tom Clancy (before he went into the tank  himself) of Sci-Fi - we're not exactly talking high-quality here, but at  least engaging. Zahn's books may not have been particularly plausible even  in the fantastic Star Wars universe, and the plots were certainly strained  (to say the least), but they still caught your attention and kept you  reading.<br />This trilogy, though, is hopeless. Beyond the pale, really. Not  one redeeming new idea or character, nor any believable or even sympathetic  presentations of old characters. It must be admitted that Star Wars is, in  fact, a merciless world to write for since the pre-existing material is so  good and reader expectations are high. On the other hand, readers'  familiarity and enthusaism can carry an otherwise margial work; but not  even that is enough to save this dreadful hack.<br />I reccomend you retain  your enthusiasm for the Star Wars universe and not read this book. On the  other hand, once you've finished you are unlikely to believe that it had  anything to do with Star Wars universe anyway (although the lightsabres do  flash nicely, it's really hard to get that distinctive hum going when you  just don't buy any of it).	1999-10-28
US	52965794	R2U5ZQZKA2ROJO	0140277447	803730078	The Rape of Nanking: The Forgotten Holocaust of World War II	Books	4	7	10	N	N	A very difficult book	This is a very difficult book to understand, not just because of the subject material (which is beyond the comprehension of the average late 20th Century American), but because of the lack of really good sources.  While elements of the book clearly seem implausible (how did 27 Westerners  manage to continuously protect and guard 200,000 Chinese in the Saftey  Zone? All while finding time to run around stopping atrocities?), one  cannot deny the event occured. We are left with tantalizing first-person  accounts, but a lack of documentary evidence which leaves us straining to  peer through the mists of time.<br />In the end, we just don't know for sure,  any more than we know the true details of atrocities today in the Balkans  or China. We know atrocities did occur, we can sympathise with the author  because Japan's failure to deal properly with its past in the way Germany  has is frustrating, and because so many details of the Sino-Japanese  conflict are lost to Westerners, while the European conflict is  meticulously documented.<br />But, at the end of the day, we still just don't  know. We want to believe, but somehow while the stories relayed in the Rape  of Nanking are impressive, it feels more like the &quot;historian as  copy-typist&quot; that John Keegan indicts in his &quot;Face of  Battle&quot;. I do not believe that this is serious history in the way that  book is. We are asked to take too much on faith. What we end up with is  somthing that plays to our emotions but fails to hammer us with compelling  scholorship. The Rape of Nanking is like the reports of atrocities coming  out of Kosovo today. Compelling story telling, probably true to a greater  or lesser degree, but we are left sturggling to identify where the truth  really lies. Should this deter us? Perhaps not. Does it really matter if  10,000 or 50,000 or 100,000 acts of unimaginable barbarism were comitted?  Is 10,000 or 50,000 acceptable and 100,000 not? What do these numbers  really mean acrosstime and generations? However, I feel our response to  this book should be not to overrate it as history or scholorship (although  some of the work done in tracking down individual sources is impressive),  but to remind us how ignorant we (as Westerners) remain about the war in  Asia and that the gaps in our knowledge of history simply must be filled  in. This book does not do it, but it should be a compelling reminder to us  that the truth _is_ out there, and there is no doubt that to deny the past  is to deny the future.	1999-06-09
US	52965794	RFLL5ZDTRKLGZ	0345418433	150650131	Lord Foul's Bane (The Chronicles of Thomas Covenant the Unbeliever, Book 1)	Books	5	1	2	N	N	The Other Great Fantasy Series	Truly a masterful book. I have read the first Trilogy three times now, at different times in my life, and each reading has revealed new thematic depths which had passed unnoticed previously. Never obvious, always compelling, and thoroghly well-written; never have I remained so focused on a book. Perhaps the universe of the Land lacks the depth of history and legend found in Middle-Earth, but for what it may lack there, it more than makes up for with its compelling presentation of the fundamental truths of service, power, and responsibility. Not for the faint of heart, distinctly heavier than Tolkien, and truly a demonstration of the power and worth of a much-abused genre. <br /> These books, the first Thomas Covenant trilogy, are truly Donaldson's masterworks. Many of his other books are very, very good, but in my opinion he never equalled his achievement here.	1998-04-16
US	52965794	R32NFW3PC05AQC	0380710846	482251039	Caesar's Women (Masters of Rome Series)	Books	2	4	6	N	Y	Not too bad, but the series continues to decline	I really enjoyed the First Man in Rome, and while I still follow the series and moderately enjoy reading the stuff, it's certainly not a patch on Robert Graves for quality of writing or Suetoneus, Plutarch, Asimov, or any of the many good histories of Rome as history. If you have a real enthusiasm for the period, the setting alone may well overcome the absurdly modern dialogue and the considerable obviousness of the plot development - and the book is by no means bad. However, in my opinion the imagination and the thoroghly researched historical setting, which were the hallmarks of the first book, have declined considerably in subsequent volumes.	1998-04-15
