US	52977241	R5ZZSKBRR92DX	0393324826	925418329	Stiff: The Curious Lives of Human Cadavers	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Good book	I read this book while my wife was napping and she woke up from me laughing so much.  It's not that death is an especially comedic occurrence, but Roach's often wry commentary, in the form of footnotes to her text are funny observations on the circumlocutions we humans have surrounding death. <br /> <br />A good read.	2004-12-30
US	52977241	RXXMQV7MVOA5L	1400076935	454177999	Absolutely American: Four Years at West Point	Books	4	8	19	N	N	uneven effort	This is an interesting book, if only because it is highly improbably that it was written.  The author, a self-styled intellectual Jew from New York City's Greenwich Village has had about as much to do with military culture as the Pope has had to do with porn.  Which is to say that, prior to writing this book, Lipsky knew no soldiers, had no soldiers in his family, and probably was never on a military base. <br /> <br />Thus, it is interesting to read an account of military culture and life from the perspective of someone wholly foreign to the culture. <br /> <br />One of the hallmarks of military culture is its insularity and its differences from civialian life.  The military uses all sorts of jargon that is completely foreign to those of us in civilian life, and Lipsky's repeated use of this jargon gets a little tiresome after a while.  It would have been nice to have a glossary so that I could remember the difference between a \\"yuk\\" and a \\"firstie\\" (these are names given to different years of the West Point experience).	2004-11-01
US	52977241	R23SU0WTBQCJHL	0312422164	93392203	How to Be Alone: Essays	Books	4	11	16	N	N	my first exposure to Franzen	Franzen writes in such an evenhanded tone that it is hard to imagine anyone being mad at him.  He is by turns incisive, thoughtful, and intellectual, but his terrain is a personal one, in which he reflects on himself and his reaction to the modern world.  Hardly the stuff of polemics. <br /> <br />As the cliche goes, though, beauty is only skin deep and where I see at worst banal observations about Franzen's attempts to make sense of his disconnectedness from the world, he finds people who react to him negatively; those who call him an 'elitist' or an intellectual do not like the fact that he has used the word 'diurnality' in his prose. <br /> <br />Now, here's a curious phenomenon: Franzen, an author who seems quite at odds with the modern world, achieves success in the form of an endorsement from Oprah Winfrey.  Ophah Winfrey, who could hardly be less controversial and more banal than Franzen, endorsed his novel \\"The Corrections\\".  Suddenly, Franzen had more publicity than he had ever had before; a film crew wanted him to go back to his childhood house in St. Louis, and he started receiving hate mail, from those self-satisfied mensches in the midwest who do not like the \\"diurnality\\" in his prose. <br /> <br />What do we have here?  Well, I'm not an earnest person, and my admittedly cynical take on this whole scenario (which at once seems to befuddle and concern Franzen) is that many people who could charitably be called casual readers have their choices distilled for them by Oprah.  In general, this is an admirable goal; anything that increases the amount people read has to be a good thing if we accept that reading itself is intrinsically good.  But a unexpected problem arises when you are dealing with a person like Winfrey.  Winfrey is successful because of her safe banality; she does not, to use a cliche, push boundaries, nor does she demand much of her viewers.  Her \\"I'm Ok, you're OK\\" rhetoric has earned her millions, in both fans and dollars. <br /> <br />Thus, we have the endorsement of a novel like \\"The Corrections,\\" which, as I understand it, explores the existential angst of three smug, self-absorbed urbanites who, in certain ways, pine for the quotidian pleasures that their suburban parents take for granted.  All well and good.  But, ahh, that writing.  The demands, the heavy use of abstruse words.  Why \\"diurnality\\"?  Why not just \\"daily\\" or some such other simple, immediately accessible word?  We want our reading like we want our Oprah!  Spoonfed to us so we know what to think, what to feel, and how to react. <br /> <br />Therein lies Franzen's troubles: he wants to be alone in the world, to think, to cogitate, to enjoy language and the written word, and, well, everyone else seems to want the artifice of American pop culture.	2004-11-01
US	52977241	R38DHSLUHRE2EE	0312421702	344894931	Complications: A Surgeon's Notes on an Imperfect Science	Books	4	2	9	N	N	Gawande refuses to judge certain people who should be judged	When we think of science, we think of a lofty ideal full of certainty and devoid of doubt.  After all, when we learn science in school, we are taught that a water molecule always contains only hydrogen and oxygen, if we drop something gravity will always pull it down, and we will all surely die.  With inalienable certainties such as those, to say nothing of other certainties science offers us, then it should follow that medicine, which after all, is firmly rooted in the hard sciences of physics, chemistry, and biology, have no ambiguities or difficulties. <br /> <br />But then we expect our politicians to be above reproach, and are continually disappointed in them.  This is the paradox Gawande explores in his book: society expects that medicine, that very scientific endeavor, be perfect, yet perfection is impossible when people are involved.  Mistakes are bound to happen, ambiguities are bound to occur, communication is bound to breakdown, doctors are bound to become bad (or at least less capable) doctors, etc.  In effect, Gawande points out that all doctors are human and all humans are fallible, and therefore, medicine is unable to live up to the lofty ideal of inviolability placed upon it by society. <br /> <br />That these are considered to be novel observations is a disquieting notion; it should be implicitly obvious to anyone who has ever dealt with another person that mistakes are bound to occur.  The waitress at the restaurant brings you coffee when you ordered tea.  The elevator gets stuck between floors because the repairman left debris that blocked the elevator's path.  Your wife (or husband) cooks steak, after you told her (or him) you are watching your cholesterol.  In other words, anyone who has had to deal with the unpleasant imperfections in daily life (a population which includes everyone) realizes implicitly that we are fallible because we are human, and humans make mistakes.  But we do not apply this standard to medicine.  All participants in medicine-patients, doctors, medical device manufacturers-wish to operate under the assumption that doctors exist on some exalted plane in which mistakes never occur.  That, after all, is why they became doctors and not lawyers or businesspeople, right?  Because law and business can tolerate mistakes, but, well, the stakes of medicine are too high. <br /> <br />All of this is very compelling, and generally accurate.  It is unreasonable and unusual to assume infallibility on the part of someone with whom you are dealing.  However, this has some troubling implications, of which Gawande does not come to terms with.  Implicit in the trust endowed in a doctor, and the power that the law gives to a doctor to perform surgery, administer medication, and so on is the assumption that, despite our human imperfections, doctors do everything humanly possible to avoid error.   <br /> <br />Gawande proceeds to relate the story of a `good doctor gone bad' by which he means a doctor that quickly became incompetent and who was not stripped of his license in due course.  His is a sympathetic portrait of this incompetent doctor; sympathy is an inappropriate response to the doctor's plight and tells us little but that doctors have trouble confronting their unreliable colleagues and that it takes a while before a doctor is stripped of his license to practice.  This is troubling, given the power doctors assume. <br /> <br />On the whole Gawande's book is a remarkable portrait of the complexity and ambiguity of modern medicine.  When he ventures outside that limited terrain, however, and explores the ethical questions surrounding the phenomenon of good doctors becoming bad doctors, he trips on his own innate sympathy and objectivity.  One wishes he took a firm stand; a doctor's excuse that he is overwhelmed, or has worked too many hours does not wash.  A person who assumes responsibility for the health of another simply cannot get away with the excuse that he works too many hours.  If a doctor works too much, it is clear he has an ethical responsibility to cut back on the number of hours; this is neither a point of subtle debate nor a particularly difficult concept to understand.  If it is true that doctors, like the rest of us, are fallible then it follows that doctors need to avoid situations in which the number of hours worked exacerbates deficient care of patients. <br /> <br />Gawande would serve his interests better if he quit trying to see the innate good in everyone he comes across.  There are, of course, people who simply are not good people.  A formerly good person can quite easily become a bad person and focusing your attentions on the formerly good qualities of that person at the expense of the newly bad qualities simply is a method by which to avoid the unpleasant duty of having to judge another person.  A doctor who has worked himself to the bone, and has therefore become derelict in his responsibilities to his patient is neither a good doctor nor a good person.  Such a doctor has utterly failed to heed his responsibility for his patients; he deserves nothing less than to be rebuked for his actions.	2004-10-20
US	52977241	R25QBYOE4HEH2A	1591840082	853464652	Smartest Guys in the Room: The Amazing Rise and Scandalous Fall of Enron	Books	5	15	15	N	N	turning a dog into a duck...	It is by now a clich that arrogance and myopia contribute to many a downfall, whether the downfall is personal or corporate.  This book proves that point aptly.  Hubris and a sincere belief that Enron could do no wrong in the world contributed to an atmosphere of injudicious superiority.  Combine that tumultuous atmosphere with ineffective, weak-willed executives and poor business management skills, Enron always was a precarious edifice awaiting its fate. <br /> <br />At least, such is the narrative that the authors offer.  They argue that Enron, over the past 15 years, repeatedly found itself in financial trouble, and, rather than come clean to the Street, used financial engineering strategies to make its numbers appear better than they were.  This practice arose out of a fanatical devotion to the company's stock price; the company's stock price would not continue to rise if the company missed the Street's earnings expectations for the quarter.  Since so much of the executives' wealth was tied up in Enron stock and options, financial shenanigans became a self-fulfilling prophecy.  After all, the authors point out, if most of your wealth is tied up in a company's stock, don't you have an incentive to do everything possible to keep its stock at a high level?  Certainly, at this point, financial chicanery becomes more attractive than financial fidelity. <br /> <br />Therein lies the fundamental flaw of Enron (as well as numerous other bubble companies): the very compensation scheme created by the company to inculcate a sense of loyalty in its executives created a conflict too gross to manage adequately.  The conflict in this instance is, in retrospect, a simple one: executives had all the incentive in the world to keep their company stock at a high level because all of their wealth, and their future wealth, was tied up in the company.  Therefore, there was little incentive for them to be straightforward with the Street, or, for that matter, the company's finances.  Enron thus became a delusional place where it could do no wrong and its managers were businesspeople par excellence. <br /> <br />All of this is false of course.  Enron's managers are human after all, and all humans are susceptible to the foibles and follies of people everywhere; no matter how smart a group of executives, nor the sterling reputations of the schools from which they received their MBAs, absent sound business principles, ignorance becomes bliss and delusion becomes reality. <br /> <br />The authors are at their best when they explain the source of Enron's executives' arrogance, and the consequences for the company of that arrogance.  It is important, therefore, to understand the company's hierarchy.  The company was run by its founder, Ken Lay.  Despite having the title of CEO, he played a role more akin to Chairman of the Board or a statesman: he spent most of his time away from the company, hobnobbing with celebrities and heads of state, and otherwise embodying the rock star CEO mentality.  Business is just another form of theater, a la Sean Penn walking down the red carpet at the Oscars.  Thus, other executives, from Jeff Skilling, on down, basically ran the show, and their outsized, narcissistic personalities therefore dictated a lot about the Enron culture. <br /> <br />Skilling came from McKinsey, the famous consulting firm full of Harvard and Wharton MBAs.  As we all know, people with MBAs from Harvard and Wharton can be very intelligent.  But they can also be very arrogant and dismissive of those they consider to be their intellectual inferiors; the authors imply that Skilling demonstrated the worst tendencies of a Harvard MBA, and, absent any checks in his behavior, his arrogance and condescension became the shaky cornerstones of the poorly constructed edifice that became Enron. <br /> <br />The metaphor of a poorly built structure is, at the end, the appropriate one for Enron.  Despite the thousands of worker bees carrying out the daily operations of the company, the executives at the top were maniacally focused only on telling the Enron story: manipulating the Street into thinking that Enron was the greatest thing since sliced bread.  Their thought was that as long as the stock keeps going up, and the Street believes in the Enron story, then there is no need to make the hard business decisions that are actually quite unpleasant to deal with.  Enron had no organization and no comprehension of the risks it faced, either in its daily operations or in its financial engineering.  One need not be an architect or engineer to know that structural integrity is important to the sanctity of a building.  Such is the lesson we learn from the Enron fiasco: image is nothing when it is created only for the purpose of supplicating the Street and propping up the stock. <br /> <br />Incidentally, the title of this review comes from a reference in the book.  The authors quote an accountant who explains that Enron used creative accounting techniques that often hewed to the letter of the law but violated its spirit.  Under this logic, if you have a dog, but you paint its fur yellow and paste a beak on it, you technically have a duck, if by \\"duck\\" you understand it to mean \\"an animal with yellow fur (feathers) and a beak.\\"  In other words, if a transaction meets the technical requirements for it to be considered, say, revenue, then it need not matter that, in substance, it's not really revenue but debt.	2004-10-19
US	52977241	R70YUOGUO7M24	1400053552	946602413	Intellectual Morons: How Ideology Makes Smart People Fall for Stupid Ideas	Books	3	179	215	N	N	promising and problematic	Ideology is at odds with logic and consistency because logic and consistency require that, occasionally, a sacred cow must perish.  Ideology and its adherents require that those loyal to the cause never stray; fundamentalist religion and followers of a particular ideology can be said to suffer from the same myopic affliction.  Thus, what we have in Daniel Flynn's Intellectual Morons is an exploration of how otherwise intelligent people-mainly Howard Zinn, Noam Chomsky, and other intellectual luminaries of the left-have jettisoned the principles of logic and intellectual rigor in favor of chicanery, deceit, and manipulation to further their political agendas. <br /> <br />The premise for the book is promising, and, in some of the chapters (each of which chapter is devoted to a particular `intellectual moron' and his or her adherents) Flynn succeeds at this admittedly ambitious goal.  For instance, the first chapter on Herbert Marcuse is generally excellent (though it too has its flaws); Lynn eviscerates the idea that Marcuse's obscurantist prose contained worthwhile ideas.  Rather he compares Marcuse's often contradictory and perplexing phrases to that of Orwell's Newspeak in 1984 (\\"Ignorance is Strength,\\" etc.)  Unfortunately, this effort is inconsistent throughout the book, and some of the claims Flynn makes are bizarre, unsubstantiated, or just plain vicious in their nature. <br /> <br />Flynn believes that Marcuse's writing leads to the logical consequence of courts' upholding gay marriage, Clinton's lechery, Madonna, Christina Aguilera, and Britney Spears (page 21 of the hardcover edition).  It is not clear how this follows; certainly, if we are to adduce causes for these pop culture phenomena we can point to many strains of thought over the past 100 years that have allowed vapidity to flourish.  On the next page (page 22), Flynn, in a footnote, bizarrely refers to the movie The Hours as a \\"boring feminist film\\" when the film was neither, unless by `boring' is meant it was not a Jerry Bruckheimer movie, and by `feminist' is meant that most of its stars were women. <br /> <br />Further examples abound, all of which are to the detriment of Flynn's overarching thesis that the intellectual left is bereft of cogency and a commitment to an objective standard of truth.  To wit: on page 34, he cites as an inevitable consequence of Alfred Kinsey the playing of music videos on MTV that resemble \\"soft-core porn.\\"  When was the last time MTV played music videos?  The nineteen-eighties?  So why does Flynn mention Aguilera and Spears as the soft-core porn stars? <br /> <br />On page 39, he relates the story of Alfred Kinsey mutilating his genitals, and offers as the explanation for this act merely that Kinsey was perverse and repulsive; he refuses to explore the possibility that Kinsey's homosexuality caused him distress and that his genital mutilation was an attempt at a kind of self-flagellation.  This is a path of inquiry that is at once obvious and worth pursuing.  It certainly would not be the first time that someone shamed about their sexuality or sexual proclivities attempted self-mutilation. <br /> <br />Page 102: \\"According to [Howard] Zinn, [Christopher Columbus] and those who followed him to the New World ventured for one reason: profit.\\"  This isn't news; it's well established that Columbus convinced Ferdinand & Isabella to finance his voyage with the promise of jewels and gold and silver for Spain's empire.  Indeed, the whole of the mercantilist economy that developed when the new world was discovered depended on the assumption that exploration was undertaken for purposes of earning a profit.  Flynn argues that Zinn reduces everything to economics; if it happened in history, Flynn says, Zinn believes it has a profit motive.  While this may be a stretch, and Flynn is correct to point out that Zinn has an unhealthy obsession with trying to point out the alleged evils of capitalism, it does not follow from this that Zinn is incorrect in claiming that Columbus had money on his mind when he proposed his voyage. <br /> <br />These criticisms are a shame because his book attempts to highlight a very important fact that most other commentators conveniently ignore: much of what passes as intellectual conversation and inquiry among the political left these days (as well as the reactionary right) is ideological in nature and not really intellectual.  Most of it is artifice, some of it is conjecture, and all of it ignores the inconvenient reality that, as Lynn notes at the end of his book, ideas have consequences.  Lynn makes the point that Marx's publication of Das Kapital presaged the death of 100 million people in the twentieth century.  He implies that we ought to ask what will the consequences of some of the more outlandish ideas proffered by today's intellectuals be?	2004-10-19
US	52977241	R3GHE9F9EFVQLF	0743225708	281016025	Bringing Down the House: The Inside Story of Six M.I.T. Students Who Took Vegas for Millions	Books	3	4	8	N	N	I want to believe that this is a good story	I want to like this book.  I want to be able to say that it's possible to beat Vegas, and that if you're smart enough and diligent enough, it's possible to walk away with millions.  For all I know, it may be true that you can beat Vegas.  But this book doesn't tell me that. <br /> <br />What this book tells me is that a writer interviewed a bunch of people purportedly involved in this scheme and that he tried to create profiles of all of these people to create largely fictionalized characterizations of people involved in a scheme that may or may not have existed, and, if it did exist may or may not have been successful. <br /> <br />In other words, it's quite clear that, in descriptions of the group's actions, and their personalities, the author engaged in a bit of artistic license, probably to protect the identities of the participants. <br /> <br />This is all well and good, except it comes at the expense of cogency and interest.  In short, there is nothing in this book that engages the reader, other than the idea that you can walk away from Vegas with millions.  But I didn't find myself interested in the characters.  I wanted to be interested in them, to learn about their backgrounds and their personalities, and the traits they each brought to bear on betting. <br /> <br />Alas.	2004-10-08
US	52977241	R1PNYTUOGQCN56	1400032806	418900469	Under the Banner of Heaven: A Story of Violent Faith	Books	4	11	16	N	N	does not quite live up to its potential	Krakauer's book Under the Banner of Heaven has enough in it to disappoint everyone.  It will disappoint, if not offend, Mormons and their sympathizers.  It will also disappoint religious skeptics who long for substantial critiques of religious fundamentalism and the environments in which religious mania arises.  If each of the book's chapters were read as essays meant to stand on their own, each essay would provide a cogent analysis of some of the more interesting historical and contemporary accounts of the violence associated with Mormonism (and religion generally).  The problem is the book was not written as a collection of loosely related essays but was written with the intent to weave a historical analysis from events in the recent past, all the way back to the mystical, if not fanciful, beginning of the Mormon religion. <br /> <br />Krakauer starts by relating the story of two fundamentalist Mormons who murdered a young woman and her infant daughter because of some vaguely understood instruction on the part of God to do so.  Krakauer alludes to, but does not explicitly reference, a version of Kant's ontological fallacy: one can never disprove the claims of the murderers because they base their explanation, and admission, of their actions on divine instruction.  In other words, Krakauer points out that you can't refute the logic under which these murderers operated simply because they failed to operate under any logical system at all.  Rather, they operated because \\"it was the will of God\\", to use the reductive and simplistic terms with which fundamentalists the world over justify their actions.  In other words, to reduce an action to \\"will of God\\" is to absolve yourself of responsibility for that action; you state that God made you do it, and that there is no further discussion necessary.  Therefore, Krakauer notes, the peculiar quality of fundamentalist religion is that it is impossible to critique in normal terms because fundamentalists are necessarily myopicin their perspective.  God alone determines all things, they reason, so why consider another perspective?  Thus we have a scene in which Krakauer interviews one of the murderers, and the murderer tells him in a blas and banal manner that he did in fact commit murder and would do so again under similar circumstances. <br /> <br />All of this points to the tension between the fundamentalist and the secular, modern world that Krakauer finds so poignant.  But what of it?  Where is the coherent narrative that connects these heinous murders to the origins of Mormonism?  Krakauer would like to prove that the violent origins of Mormonism (which are very much tied up with the violent origins of the outlaw West of the 1800s) are somehow predictive of, and responsible for, the ultimate consequence: the murder of two innocent, defenseless people who did nothing worse than ignore the will of God.  Krakauer certainly explains the lineage between modern-day Mormon fundamentalists and their ancestral polygamists.  He certainly demonstratively proves the wanton abuse and manipulation of young girls and women at the hands of fundamentalist men in Mormonism, and notes quite correctly that this patriarchy is not exclusive to Mormons but rather rears its rapacious head in all fundamentalist religions, as well as some more mainstream ones. <br /> <br />Krakauer's fails to tie all of these points together.   In general terms, Krakauer wants to prove that: (1) religious fundamentalism has its roots in mainstream religion, (2) religious fundamentalism is stultifying for those not in a position of authority, and (3) religious fundamentalism is based on an explicit rejection of any modern conception of the role of the state in regulating human affairs.  Individually, Krakauer proves these points well.  He demonstrates the lineage of Mormon fundamentalism to the original theological schism in Mormon dogma (which is the debate of polygamy and its legitimacy).  He also demonstrates the venal and insidious way in which male authorities on fundamentalist communities humiliate, dictate, manipulate and destroy the lives of young girls and women.  Finally, he demonstrates how incompatible fundamentalist thought is with the intellectual and political origins of the United States.  In effect, Krakauer notes that fundamentalism and Jeffersonian-Lockean governments are ideologically opposed to one another.  Since the role of the state is often in direct conflict with the will of God, Krakauer notes that many Mormon fundamentalists explicitly endorse defrauding the government and otherwise hewing to the lunatic fringe of the libertarian movement (not paying taxes, driving without license plates, etc.) <br /> <br />Therefore, all of these ideas are explained well, in various chapters, and all of the chapters can stand alone as cogent analyses on problems at the intersection of fundamentalist religion and modern society.  However, the narrative suffers because Krakauer does not quite pull all of these various themes together.  The book jumps back and forth over the history of the Mormon Church and tries to relate current events to those of the recent past.  While it is clear that the theological schism that afflicted the Mormon Church directly bears on the fact that there are polygamous Mormons living today, it does not explain the violence with which certain of these modern, polygamous people act.  It is instructive to understand the violent origins of the world's religions.  It is interesting to draw parallels between historical and contemporary violence.  It is tempting, further, to believe that the existence of these parallels proves a direct and necessary connection between historical occurrences and modern events.  It is quite possible, even, that one can prove that the past necessarily predicts the present, but I don't believe that Krakauer quite succeeded here. <br />	2004-09-14
US	52977241	R3KZD2QNODET34	185984054X	181218559	The Missionary Position: Mother Teresa in Theory and Practice	Books	5	36	47	N	N	pugnacious polemics hit the mark	It would be an interesting exercise to have two people, whose perceptions of the world are at diametric odds with one another, sit down to expound upon their vision of the world.  Picture Karl Marx and Adam Smith knocking back a couple beers at the local pub and you get the picture.  Now, imagine that one of our participants casts herself as pious and sedulous and the other, he is direct, blunt, incredulous, skeptical, and, no doubt, an atheist.  And, he has no qualms about casting aspersions on the motives of a woman otherwise regarded as a saint by most of the (religious) world.  Thus, you have the conflict central to Christopher Hitchens's book The Missionary Position: Mother Teresa in Theory and Practice.  Hitchens, by turns brutal, incisive, critical, observant, and, above all, unrelenting in his attacks of Catholicism and its most famous adherent after the Pope has slaughtered all sacred cows; Hitchens most certainly is not, to put it pithily, a Hindu. <br /> <br />So what do we have here?  In part an ad hominem attack against Mother Teresa, in part an intellectual exercise in repudiating religion's corrupting influence over the course of man's history, and in part an expose of the ignorant and credulous idolators who lionize Mother Teresa, the book operates as an indictment of her and the religion and god to which she devoted her life.  Indeed, Hitchen's rhetorical style is that of a legal pugilist: he marshals his facts together and uses them, unrelentingly, to take apart the case for the other side.  He effectively demolishes any claim that Mother Teresa's organization takes care of the world's poor.  He illustrates convincingly that, in consideration of several odd affiliations Mother Teresa engineered for herself and her charities, she is at best nave and at worst calculating and mendacious.  To wit, she: (1) took in millions from wealthy crooks like Charles Keating (he of the S&L crisis in the 1980s), (2) affiliated herself with despots (the Duvaliers of Haiti), and (3) acknowledged the authority of the Communists in her native Albania (those famous practitioners of religious freedom).  It seems fair to say that her claims of ignorance about the implications of these affiliations fall flat.  He casts her as a cold and calculating woman whose purpose is to solicit as many donations as possible for her charities, affiliate herself with western politicians (witness Mother Teresa and Hillary Clinton at an adoption center in Washington, DC), and insist that the poor for whom she cares focus on the suffering that is their fate ordained by God.   <br /> <br />All of these descriptions and affiliations would likely be harmless were it not for the connection Hitchens makes between Mother Teresa's work on behalf of her charities (the donations and affiliations she seeks) and the conditions of the various shelters and clinics she runs around the world for the destitute and hopeless.  Despite raking in millions from crooks and from perfectly honest people alike, she refuses to give the sick and dying medical treatment; instead, they are to smile more, to wear their suffering gladly, so to speak.  Medical attention, one assumes, would be prideful.  Instead of using her money to educate poor Indians in overpopulated slums about birth control, she is a fierce opponent of abortion, contraception, and any strain of thought that deviates from the dictates of the Catholic Church on human sexuality.  This is a problem because it is the poor who are less able to afford large families, and it is the dense population of the world's slums that leads to many of the otherwise manageable health risks, which the rich world no longer endures.  Despite a lifelong ignorance of human passion due to her celibacy, she deigns, as do all devout Catholics, to tell others how to handle their sexual lives. <br /> <br />All of these criticisms leveled at Mother Teresa are also criticisms of Catholocism, for Mother Teresa was its most outspoken exponent,outside of the Vatican.  Therefore, per Hitchens, the conniving and calculating way that Mother Teresa worked for her charities, and the lack of palliative care that these charities provided for their clients, is morally repugnant.  Mother Teresa used the ecclesiastical tools of authority and ontological mania to refuse medical treatment for those whose suffering she alleged to be God's will.  Hitchens thus argues that Mother Teresa usurped the authority of her God to pursue her own ends, in which the suffering of those she tried to help was but a mere tool to use in extracting money from the wealthy people of the world who, by dint of guilt, wanted merely to ameliorate the condition of the world's wretched. <br />	2004-08-19
US	52977241	R1BSN362P9B35X	0375422331	168525794	Isaac Newton	Books	5	3	3	N	N	excellent	There is something to be said about a book, such as Gleick's Isaac Newton, when one can read it on the beach.  That is not to say that Gleick is light on substance, or that this is a typical 'beach read'.  But, it is to say that the economy of his prose, the clarity of his thought, and the rigor of his analysis is always interesting, and always illuminating. <br /> <br />The one complaint I have about the book is that Gleick frequently tries to adduce what precisely Newton was thinking at various points in time.  This is an interesting attempt at trying to contextualizing a confounding man (what genius other than Newton has been so apparently devoid of ego as to wish his work not to be published?)  But, it is not clear to me how, given a lack of contemporary accounts of Newton's state of mind (Freud and William James did not create psychology when Newton was alive) Gleick can claim to understand the nature of Newton's character. <br /> <br />That said, any effort to contextualize Newton is obviously an interesting one, if only because of his historical importance.	2004-07-27
US	52977241	R3AQPMUCKQ091K	0393324397	861144841	Globalization and Its Discontents (Norton Paperback)	Books	5	7	11	N	N	instructive analysis of globalization's ills	The title of this book obviously borrows from Freud's Civilization and its Discontents.  I suppose that one could stretch the relationship further and try to illustrate that Freud's sublimation of desire is similar to the IMFs sublimation of common sense, or some other such pithy observation, but what this book does really well is simply to point out many of the inconsistencies of the thinking at the IMF, its lack of accountability despite its being a public institution, and the arrogance displayed by it in the face of criticisms (including, as per the Afterword, this book).	2004-07-27
US	52977241	R348Z50I2VDTCC	0374529000	392598822	American Studies	Books	4	6	11	N	N	stilted writing obscures the essays	The essays in this book, while interesting, suffer from an acute case of stilted writing. In many cases, the complexity of Menand's syntax places heavy demands on the reader--to the detriment of the message Menand tries to impart. In a manner all too typical of academic writers, he tries to infuse a thought with associated side thoughts within the same sentence. What we get is an overly complex sentence that ought to be rendered into two or three.  <br />  <br /> To wit, in his essay &quot;Christopher Lasch's Quarrel with Liberalism&quot;, he writes, on page 206-07 of the paperback edition:  <br />  <br /> &quot;The 'narcissistic self', Lasch explained, was really a type of what he was now calling the 'minimal' self--'a self uncertain of its own outlines, [yet[ longing either to remake the world in its own image (as in the case of technocratic reformers and other acolytes of 'progress') 'or to merge into its environment in a blissful union' (as in the case of countersculturalists, feminists, and ecological utopians).&quot; <br />  <br /> Such a monster of a sentence is but on instance of a pattern all too common in this book. Clearly, one can make sense of the sentence after two or three readings, but, stil, there are more felicitous and econommical ways to write about highly abstract subjects than to lard sentences with parenthetical comments on quotations cited immediately before said parentheticals. It is an arrogant conceit, I suppose, one that claims that the reader's time is less valuable than the time spent crafting such sentences. <br />  <br /> All of this is a shame, in a way, because, if you allow yourself the time to understand Menand's prose, he has some very interesting things to say. His words remind me of Greenspan's oracular and circuitous testimony to Congress.	2004-07-27
US	52977241	R14ABIG5JODTAE	0142000957	323802732	Killing Pablo: The Hunt for the World's Greatest Outlaw	Books	5	2	4	N	N	an interesting argument against the drug war	This book, inadvertently, I suspect, is really an argument against the drug war.  By now a cliche, this line of thought postulates that, were drugs like cocaine not criminalized in the states, there would be no or little incentive for murderous thugs in Latin America to risk murder and lengthy prison times getting the drug in this country.<br />Thus, one could argue, quite blithely, that, had the American government wised up and attempted to regulate drug trafficking like any other international business, many of the unsavory elements of the business would depart for greener (more illicit) pastures.  The natural consequence of this, of course, would be that millions of dollars otherwise spent on futile attempts at interdiction and eradication would be spent elsewhere, and many of the thousands of people killed both in the United States and Latin America over the past 25 years would instead be alive.  <br />Would that it were true that the United States could hew to the lessons learned in the alcohol trade: once alcohol was legal again in the United States and it became a regulated drug sold only to people legally eligible to buy it, the violence associated with it declined precipitously.  In fact, the only violence associated with alcohol use today is domestic violence and drunk driving.  Those violent acts, while of course tragic to all those involved in them, are far fewer and far less bloody than the gang wars initiated by Al Capone and his antogonists.<br />That the same lesson applies in the drug war is sad.<br />On another note, a number of reviewers on this site have mentioned many apparent parallels between the hunt for Pablo Escobar and the hunt for Saddam Hussein and Osama bin Laden.  While it is true that, superficially, there are parallels, such as the US government deciding that its national security in all three instances was at risk with these monsters operating openly, it is nonetheless an unfair comparison.  Relatively few Colombians liked Escobar,and he never had the legitimacy of the state behind him, as did Hussein.<br />Given all that, this is an excellent account of the travails leading up to, and concluding with, the execution of Escobar.	2004-07-14
US	52977241	R2Z8K7H578Y11E	1594200033	464600964	Origins of the Crash: The Great Bubble and Its Undoing	Books	4	4	5	N	N	dry, acerbic wit accurately dissects the money culture	This is a really good, introductory book that explains the whole money culture of the 90s, its origins, and many of the seemingly absurd and illogical justifications used by various players to justify the bubble that permeated Wall St.<br />It is quite informative, always entertaining, and Lowenstein's wit and acerbic sense of humor make one chuckle at the outrageousness of some situations.<br />That said, the book, while descriptive, is not prescriptive: it does not offer much in the way of solutions to the issues so eloquently raised in its pages.  It is quite easy, after all, to determine that a hitter swings his bat too wildly to make contact with the ball; it is much harder to tell the batter how to make contact with the ball.  Describing the history and culture that gave rise to some of the more egregious practices of the past ten years is certainly informative; however, such descriptions merely contextualize the problem and do little to advance debate on how to overcome such problems.<br />For example, Lowenstein quite correctly points out that one big cause of the mania for shares was managers' sudden infatuation with hitting quarterly earnings targets...which fascination these managers fixated on because the Street told them that is the yardstick by which they would be judged.  So?  Good analysis, good explanation that the logic implied in the relationship between managers, their colleagues on the street, and the maniacal focus on hitting earnings targets is self-referential if not outright incestuous.  But Lowenstein does not take this argument to the next step: what do we do to cut off such self-referential silliness as that which is described?<br />That is a discussion he does not approach, and one that neither he nor anyone else seems to have.  History, of course, will judge if the corporate reforms as of late, such as Sarbanes-Oxley and the focus on corporate governance will have the desired effect.	2004-06-22
US	52977241	R15ORK9A5FMAYQ	0525946756	557461421	Skipping Towards Gomorrah: The Seven Deadly Sins and the Pursuit of Happiness in America	Books	5	11	19	N	N	the reviews are even funnier than the book	The negative reviews here are even funnier than the book!  But then I'm not a homosexual so I can't really take offense at people recoiling in moral shock from Savage's politics.  On the other hand I suppose if you are gay, the negative reviews on this site are a depressing reminder that people like Savage are judged for their sexuality and not for their ideas.<br />But still, the reviews make me laugh even more than the book.	2004-06-21
US	52977241	R1G98XC23SH198	0316192945	63681096	American Sucker	Books	4	3	4	N	N	an interesting look at a self-absorbed, humbled investor	This is an interesting look at a self-absorbed and humbled investor who fell for the allure of the markets and the get-rich-quick mantra of the late 90s.  It chronicles, cliched though it is, the rise and fall of a man's portfolio, along with his ties to some of the more notorious corproate crooks of the past few years.  It is worth 4 stars if only because the author is remarkably candid about his greed, his desire for quick riches through the market, and his admiration and jealousy of the 'rock star' CEO embodied in Sam Waksal.<br />There's not much original in here, or interesting beyond that rare candor.  Candor, however, is a rare quality in writers, and such makes this an interesting trifle of a read.	2004-06-14
US	52977241	R2ZV2O1ZOWBU4P	0767904842	603200076	Smart Couples Finish Rich: 9 Steps to Creating a Rich Future for You and Your Partner	Books	4	14	17	N	N	good, but conservative, advice	This is an excellent book to use when planning your family's finances.  Obviously, given the power of compounding, to which the author repeatedly refers, the earlier in your life you start planning for your financial future, the better off you will be.  I recommend the book to anyone with the understanding that it follows a conservative, fairly conventional path toward financial security.<br />If you are a finance whiz, you will find parts of the book too conservative and too plain.  If you try to magnify your investment returns by trading options, for example, or you invest in real estate, or any other kind of investment other than 'plain vanilla stocks and bonds' you will find the book limiting.<br />That said, the book provides an excellent organizational structure for any one trying to get a hold on his financial picture.	2004-06-11
US	52977241	R33GX218BFINGX	0060938455	515614189	Fast Food Nation: The Dark Side of the All-American Meal	Books	3	12	26	N	N	good writing, bad ideology	I hate fast food.  I look with pity and derision on those that consume it daily and those who find it to be their misfortune to work in such environments.  But I am not a liberal.  I do not buy into the idea that people are automatons without will, who can be controlled and manipulated by corporations in the way that a hunk of metal can be controlled and manipulated by a lathe.<br />But, that is the image Schlosser presents in this book: we are all doomed to be used like a child's toy at the hands of the big, bad, evil corporation.<br />Look, what Schlosser is arguing is that people are unable to make decisions for themselves, that they are duped into working at McDonald's because they think it glamorous or they think it a better route to fame and fortune than an education.  It is a specious to assert that McDonald's forced anyone to make these decisions; rather, people decide, based on their own igorance or failings that time spent flipping burgers is a better use of one's time than time spent, say, reading Shakespeare or doing calculus.  It is hardly McDonald's fault that it 'exploits' people's ignorance.	2004-06-09
US	52977241	R1KI1094U9DB03	0375704515	761338189	Nobrow : The Culture of Marketing, the Marketing of Culture	Books	2	5	6	N	N	not great	Interestingly, I read this book in one setting, but, upon finishing it thought to myself: 'And what of it?'  Never a good sign when reading, or reacting to, a book.  I suppose I read it all in one sitting because I'm a devoted New Yorker reader and have lived in New York my entire life, so there was a large part of my ego that was gratified when I read references about which I was intimately familiar (New York City) or read references to the culture of a magazine I read regularly (The New Yorker).<br />But, again, what of it?  All his observations are anecdotal but they don't add up to much beyond incidental coherence.  For example, Seabrook refers to a 14-year-old kid who just signed a multi-million dollar recording contract with Mercury Records.  In his recollection of his encounter with the kid, he makes reference to the kid playing Star Wars on Nintendo.  Next chapter, Seabrook is out in California meeting with George Lucas to discuss the myth of Star Wars and understand for himself how Star Wars exemplifies the 'low brow' culture which is the centerpiece of the book.<br />Thus, incidental coherence.  There is an incidental relationship between the teenager and George Lucas: namely, Lucas received more money in the year that the kid (or his parents) bought the game than if the kid never had the game.  Perhaps I'm being too drastic here, but it seems that the message of the book is that low brow culture has permeated American (if not the world's) culture, and therefore, it is easy to make connections between seemingly unrelated phenomena, or phenomena that are only tangential or loosely related to one another.  This is the narrative as told by anecdote: Anecdote A makes reference to issue 1, and issue 1 can be turned into anecdote B because it allows us to make reference to issue 2, et cetera.  But, of course, given a large enough and vibrant enough culture (low or high) it is highly probable that seemingly unrelated anecdotes can be said to have common threads.<br />What of all this?  Again, the same question.	2004-05-25
US	52977241	R3B76DS8WNE3D	0465014909	962096979	The Culture of Fear: Why Americans Are Afraid of the Wrong Things	Books	4	5	8	N	N	well written but at times didactic	The Culture of Fear is a book the demonstrates the ignorance of the American public and the willingness of major media outlets to pray on such ignorance in order to make easy points about issues that are really quite complex.<br />To wit: in an anecdote about anti-abortionists, Glassner relates the story of certain of the lunatic fringe of anti-abortionists claiming that a woman who has an abortion has a greater chance of developing breast cancer.  Media reports and politicians' please followed.  The underlying problem with these claims was that they were reductive: the reduced a complex problem about epidemiology, probability, and statistical analysis to 'abortion = high chance of breast cancer'.  That such an equation is emotive and not conducive to intelligent discussion of how cancers develop is not lost on Glassner but is lost on the American publics thirst for easy answers.<br />What Glassner alludes to, but never squarely comes to terms with, is that Americans by and large are ill-educated, ignorant, deficient in comprehension of mathematics, and utterly devoid of any understanding of scientific inquiry and the scientific method.  Instead, far too many Americans are seduced by the canivalesque emotion of the evening news; Dan Rather's stentorian authoriatarianism being sufficient proof that the end of the world is nigh.<br />On these points, Glassner excels: Americans are deluged with emotionalism and sensationalism, all to the detriment of intelligent discourse on the issue at hand.  But he does not finish this argument; namely, that America has inculcated in itself a culture in which such ignorance and naivete can flourish, and even be tolerated and expected.  That is an interesting discussion Glassner does not touch.<br />Despite these good qualities, there are times when Glassner becomes didactic in tone, especially when discussing the Catholic Church and the issue of gun control.  On the one hand he claims the demonization of the Catholic Church is misplaced (he claims sexual predators among the clergy is not as widespread as it appears to be) and on the other, he hews to the simplistic argument about guns that the mere existence of guns promulgates murders with guns.  <br />Neither of these positions really holds up to scrutiny.  While Glassner makes the interesting point that the Church ought to be criticized on the basis of its affiliations with certain political parties in Europe, that is really irrelevant to the discssion of the Church here in the United States, what with its rampant denials of widespread abuse by priests.  He in effect is saying, the Church ought to be criticized, but not because of sexual abuse by priests.  He fails to explain why the Church's affiliation with certain political parties in Europe (which he fails to mention by name) is a more worthy basis of criticism than is the wanton abuse of children by priests.<br />On the issue of guns, Glassner asserts that, if there were fewer guns (i.e., more gun control) there would be fewer murders.  No doubt this is true, however, he comes to this conclusion by effectively saying that the mere presence of guns contributes to mass slaughter.  This is like saying the mere presence of alcohol in a bar makes you drunk.  In both cases, of course, it takes the conscious action of a person for an undesired effect to occur.	2004-05-24
US	52977241	R1DW2BLGDJZA5O	0312422156	298109609	Middlesex: A Novel	Books	5	5	9	N	N	immigration and its viscissitudes	Though this book is narrated by a hermaphrodite, to argue that the book then is about a hermaphrodite or the condition that causes hermaphroditic people, is to miss the point of the book.  Though Cal's condition is central to his character, it is only incidental to the narrative arc of the book; it is a symbol of the dysfunction with which he arrived at the point that he tells the story of his family's travails.<br />This is really a story about ethnic strife, war, immigration, assimilation, materialism, social unrest, and, finally, making peace with one's past and heritage.<br />At times funny, sad, ironic, and witty the novel investigates the attempts of the Stephanides family to come from Greece to the United States and assimilat themselves into the boiling cauldron that is the American dream.<br />Where Eugenides excels in this novel is his descriptions of physical location and his characterization of the people populating the novel's pages.	2004-02-18
US	52977241	R2ZEMOFERKK9PO	0385413726	244095611	From Beirut to Jerusalem	Books	3	15	21	N	N	objective reporting only gets you so far	There is a strain of thought among journalists, to which Friedman unfortuantely succumbs, which says that one must at all costs be objective.  While that practice is instructive and helpful when reporting in a newspaper (this is why Daniel Pearl's murder was so heinous) it is of little use in a memoir.<br />One wishes that Friedman would take a stand, on any person and any issue about which he writes.  Unfortunately, that is not this book, so we are treated to vague, noncommittal descriptions of such heinous individuals as Arafat and Saddam Hussein.  These are descriptions devoid of context or judgment.  Friedman's resolute refusal to engage in the moral subtleties of the Middle East's contentious territorial fights is at once alarming and banal.<br />The principle of objectivity to which Friedman hews so closely is of limited use, and in a book like this, one hopes for more depth than the mere attempt to treat Palestinians as if they were Israelis, or to treat Kurds as if they were members of the Ba'ath party.  In short, Friedman espouses the morally relativistic multiculturalism that has become de rigeur among intlelectual liberals in the United States: judge no one, offend no one, and surely, don't morally indict the violent actions of those whose actions may be 'justified' under the rubric of 'oppression.'<br />His is a venal and insidious view of the Middle East conflict because he refuses to judge, analyze, or critique its state of affairs.  Rather, he merely wants to report.  What a shame.	2004-02-18
US	52977241	R7RNKQNKX6HRH	0743255453	937109510	The Price of Loyalty: George W. Bush, the White House, and the Education of Paul O'Neill	Books	5	32	104	N	N	sour grapes	This is an unsual book, so allow me to explain my rating before launching into my critique of Paul O'Neill.  I find Paul O'Neill a vapid man bent on revenge, and, were he the author of the book, would give it one star.  However, given that it was not he who exposed his own stupidity, but rather Ron Suskind (the man to whom Paul O'Neill gave a lot of his records), I feel that Mr. Suskind deserves credit for exposing O'Neill's angry thirst for revenge.  Mr. Suskind has created, in my mind, an image of King Lear thrashing about recklessly in the tempest.  I don't know if such was Mr. Suskind's intention or not, but the image he creates of Paul O'Neill is nevetheless illuminating, sad, and ultimately incisive.<br />Thus, to continue: Given the extraordinary amount of press coverage and controversy this book has received, and will receive, over the coming weeks, it is tempting to believe that the book contains earth-shattering revelations.<br />But, O'Neill is not writing about Watergate, or even Monica Lewinsky.  He's writing about his disatisfaction of, and alienation from, an anti-intellectual, politically motivated, focused, and principled man with whom he unilaterally disagrees on economic issues.<br />This is surprising?  It is surprising to me that the American press seems so naive as to believe it unbelievable that one could disagree with a President whose Administration normally is so tightly sealed.  But, people are people, and O'Neill, playing the role of relic, feels out of touch with the current Administration and its modus operandi.<br />And thus.  He gets even.  Or, at least he thinks he gets even, by spilling the beans: Bush did not want debate on Iraq; rather, he told people to 'find a way to do it.'  It hardly seems damning to me for a President to state explicitly that he did not want debate on the subject of removing a dictator from power; it's a pity that no previous president stated such a goal.  Sure, we may have our disagreements with the man on his bluntness, and his anti-intellectual refusal to engage in Clintonian or theological discussions of public policy minutiae, but there is a reason he was elected president, and not Al Gore.<br />The point is, Paul O'Neill offers less than an incisive critique of President Bush's Administration, and more of an angry outlashing at the Administration whose methods and political concerns were oblivious to him.<br />It is a testament, perhaps to O'Neill's stunning naivete and ignorance that he did not 'get' the Administration.  Here is a man who ran a large company--Alcoa--and yet...he shows himself utterly deaf to the realities of the organization for which he worked.  Such a thought makes the mind reel at the fact that he actually managed Alcoa pretty well.<br />There is a strain of thinking among management gurus which states that upper management--powerful CEOs, especially--are so used to getting their way simply by uttering words, that they are flummoxed when put in a situation in which their words account for nil.  This seems to be the psychological issue here: O'Neill, accustomed to power, intellectual rigor, and analytical discourse, is simply too blind to account for the more controlled atmosphere of Bush's Administration.<br />One can say all one wants about the inherent, willful, and venal stupidity of President Bush; still, such criticisms are irrelevant to this book.  This book is not a criticism of Bush's presidency or his methodology, but, rather, it is an unintentional case study into the bruised ego of Paul O'Neill, and the historical events that washed over him like so much seawater over a sunken boat.	2004-01-13
US	52977241	R4URXLC0WI93H	020530902X	241676942	The Elements of Style, Fourth Edition	Books	5	2	6	N	Y	focus, clarity, simplicity	This book hammers home the point that, to learn to write, one must focus on the clarity and simplicity of the words with which one writes.<br />Certainly there is a time and a place to write complexly; however, Strunk and White are interested in providing the framework of how to write well.  In order to use a framework, you need to start somewhere, and their focus on clarity and simplicity is a good one.  Why try to aspire to the obtuse and the impenetrable if you haven't the basics of cogent writing?  Interested in being a sedulous writer, and not an earnest one?  Well, in order to use such sophisticated words well, one could hardly do better than to suggest that you master the basic elements of effective writing first.  This is where Strunk and White excel.	2003-10-28
US	52977241	R1KUD6TNRDE8HU	0156334607	252269413	Free to Choose: A Personal Statement	Books	5	6	12	N	N	educational	I often think of this book in the context of Nancy Reagan's simplistic 'Just Say No' campaign of the '80s.  While her campaign to inculcate in children the idea that drug abuse was something best to be avoided was admirable, the implicit message she conveyed was that the discussion about drugs was as simple as saying 'no.'  Now, an economist would aver that, in fact, the argument is not so simple as that because, in addition to consideration of the deleterious effects of drug abuse that play into the equation, one must also do a cost-benefit analysis of the effect of drug criminilization on society, etc., etc., etc.<br />At least, this is what Friedman would argue, and, to my mind, it is a stunning way in which to view our world through the dispassionate lens of economic analysis.  My father recommended this book to me several years ago, having read it while he was in graduate school.  Friedman (to whom neither my father nor I are related) argues, in effect, that the most important things a society can provide for its citizens is the freedom to choose--free capital markets, free choice in education, free to use drugs if you so choose, etc.	2003-10-19
US	52977241	RYJHDBPBTPM7H	0895260743	350381184	Losing Bin Laden: How Bill Clinton's Failures Unleashed Global Terror	Books	4	16	25	N	N	hindsight is 20/20	In reviewing this book, one is tempted to be extremely partisan, as the only people likely to read it are those who either love or loathe Clinton and are intimately interested in the consequences of his presidency.  I belong to the latter camp; I find him feckless and superficial at best, disingenuous and duplicitous at worst.<br />My natural inclination, therefore, is to agree unilaterally with everything Mr. Miniter writes in his book.  The problem that I run into, and the problem that anyone writing on such a topic runs into is that his whole argument is constructed on hearsay and circumstantial evidence.  While that does not condemn his argument entirely, it creates a huge burden for Mr. Miniter to bear as an author.  He apparently never interviewed Clinton (though he likely tried to get access to do so), and it may be a brilliant conceit of Clinton that he did not submit to an interview, but, absent an interview of one of the main players of the book, it is impossible to be certain what thoughts went through Clinton's mind as he missed opportunity after opportunity to do something decisive about bin Laden.<br />Clearly, there are many points in the book in which Clinton's ulterior, political, motivations are exposed, but who is to say that any other President's motivations are not similarly political?  That is, it seems inconsequential to me to explain Clinton's failings due to political calculation; all Presidents are by nature political animals, and anything they do or do not do can be construed as a political decision.  Therefore, this kind of analysis, I believe, is of little use.<br />As the saying goes, hindsight is 20/20.  The more interesting analysis comes when Mr. Minter focuses less on Clinton's political actions and more on the ideology in which Clinton operates.  This is the ideology that believes in pafcisim and diplomacy, not force and compulsion, that believes in the inherent goodness and reasonableness of man, not the gross baseness to which uncivilized man aspires.  In short, the more interesting angle from which to analyze Clinton is in the context of the culture wars.  Whereas liberals of the past 50 years have been content to adopt the 'all views are equal' mantra of multicultralism, a more appropriate response to the threat of terror would have been one that explicitly defines the inherent goodness of America and its values and the inherent evil and baseness to which terrorists aspire.  Come to think of it, this is precisely what W has done in his take on Osama.<br />Too bad Clinton was so naive as to see a basic goodness in everyone.	2003-10-19
US	52977241	R274OSJFHOY1CO	0393057658	346106080	Moneyball: The Art of Winning an Unfair Game	Books	4	1	1	N	N	excellent explanation of market inefficiencies	Michael Lewis, by trade a financial journalist, has brought his knowledge and background in financial markets to bear on the subject of baseball.  Lewis saw the Oakland A's do as well or better than many teams whose payrolls were far in excess of that of the A's and he realized a parallel to what arbitrageurs and hedge fund managers on Wall St. do: the A's saw inefficiencies in the market in which they participated--the labor of elite athletes (if baseball players can be considered athletes)--and sought to exploit those inefficiencies to their benefit.<br />A little background is due here.  Lewis draws a parallel between the revolution that computing power brought to Wall St.--derivatives, specifically, and the ability to analyze reams of statistical data quickly, generally--and the analysis of baseball statistics.  Much like Michael Milken made a killing on trading bonds, or Michael Bloomberg made a killing on developing a computer system through which the Milkens of the world could analyze their data, Lewis insists, quite convincingly, that their are statisitcal analyses much more relevant to and predictive of success on the diamond than the simplistic statistics with which we are all familiar--fewest errors, most home runs, most strikeouts, most steals, etc.<br />It is on these points that Lewis excels.  He brings a clarity of thought to bear on these abstractions that is rare for a journalist.  His explanation of the theoretical underpinning of the A's success as of late is excellent and is accessible by a layman (of which I am one).<br />However, in an effort to evoke the constant tension between those more theoretical practitioners of the game and the more traditionally-minded 'tools' men--those people for whom strikeouts and homeruns and the most predictive measure of success--Lewis allows his narrative to veer from the clarity of his theoretical explanations.  All too often I dinf Lewis' depiction of inside banter to be confusing, if not irrelevant.  Ratherthan try to contextualize a lot of banter, Lewis instead throws reference, discussion, terminology, and name atop one another for extended paragraphs--and then brings this discussion back to the tension which originally intrigued him.<br />What Lewis tries to do, and what I don't find entirely convincing, is evoke through a narrative style the tension between the old and the new.  Of course, there is precedent for this: his earlier and more well known book Liar's Poker tried to demonstraste the culture of trading floors in the early and mid-1980s.<br />I recommend the book with the understanding that its dialogue is burdensome and distracts from the rest of the otherwise excellent introduction to how exploitation of inefficiencies in a market can give a poor organization returns disproportionate to the resources that organization has to devote to the market.	2003-07-05
US	52977241	R1F99TY31GLL4U	1565122798	771083932	Educating Esm: Diary of a Teacher's First Year	Books	5	3	23	N	N	please ban public education	As you can see from the title of my review, I emphatically do not support public education and wish to see it eliminated, or at the very least, radically restructured.  As an examination of that topic is beyond the scope of this book, I will say this: Ms Codell (sorry, Madame Esme) inadvertently provides a pretty cogent argument in favor of eliminating public education in this country.  In particular, I found her precise and contemptuous portrayal of Mr Turner to be indicative of the bureaucrats that create sclerotic educational environments for our children.<br />Aside fron the obvious humor and passion she brought to her teaching, she is a rather amazing individual who could do something I could never do.  That thing, obviously, is to teach in the inner city in a public school.  It is a rare person with the empathy and with that this young woman has, and it to those qualities that I commend her.  Thought I oppose her apparent support of public education, I can see that she is one of the rare teachers able to inculcate, competently, a love of learning in her students.  She is to be commended for that.	2003-06-05
US	52977241	R3ATTVEXKZAKKJ	0471230324	872290364	A Word A Day: A Romp Through Some of the Most Unusual and Intriguing Words in English	Books	5	35	38	N	N	linguistic delight	I will keep it brief because the title of this book explains its subject matter well.  This is a well-written, intriguing little book that begs to be pored over at one's leisure.  It is a pleasure to read about obscure words and their origins.	2003-04-16
US	52977241	RQVQ6KDIH4M45	0743224353	886010361	Kaplan LSAT 180	Books	4	5	13	N	N	good practice	This is a good book to use, if you are well-versed with the nature of the LSAT.  You need not use it merely because you are shooting for a 180--I'm not aimning for that score, but, still, the practice exercises are good because they are so hard, and the explanations are good as well.  However, I give it four stars for the simple reason that, like all test prep books, it insists on using annoying asides that are pathetic and unnecessary attempts at humor.  <br />Example: When discussing the first logic game of the book, it contains the following sentence: \\"But there are lots of events to juggle (no, juggling is not one of them)--eight to be precise--and nine possible slots for them.\\"  Well, the reader knows from having read the question that the juggling is not an event.  Why the lame attempt at humor?  This book is a utility, and the aim of improving one's LSAT score need not be obscured by silliness such as this.<br />Some of course may say that I am harping too much on a minor quibble, and perhaps they are right.  But it seems that since I bought the book for the explicit purpose of improving my LSAT score, I do not need to be reminded of the drudgery of studying for said test by lame attempts at humor.	2003-04-16
US	52977241	R2XBNB18Q4S8DH	1400046610	957571830	Slander: Liberal Lies About the American Right	Books	5	41	55	N	N	lyrical assassin	Ann Coulter's brilliant conceit--and it's a conceit that seems over the head of certain reviewers--is her writing is a vehicle meant to provoke.  Much like free-style rappers come up with outrageous lines to show down their opponents in verse, Ann Coulter drops lyrical bombs meant less to offer incisive critique on the great issues of the day than to humorously point out the abject illogic of the liberal position in today's world.  If you take her work as anything more than that--if you assume that she aims to be the Socrates of Hegel of our time--you will be sorely disappointed.  Her aim here is not critical thought or substantive thought but rather to embarras liberals.<br />Witness one paragraph of her book, from page 20 of the hardcover edition: \\"At the risk of helping liberals formulate more persuasive arguments, there are a few pointers that might help them upgrade from the overheated demagogic rhetoric of fanatical cult members....\\"Nazi\\" can be used properly in a sentence, but it tends to lose its sting when you call every Republican a Nazi....Using the same words to describe school vouchers as to characterize the Holocaust tends to leave the impression that you forgot your point.\\"<br />All in all, hers is a brillaint method aimed at exposing the naive simplicity with which the reactionary left rails against those that wish to preserve our liberties.	2002-12-07
US	52977241	R2ELM76G1BNAGA	0805068937	824124053	Joined at the Heart: The Transformation of the American Family	Books	1	28	40	N	N	The grass is greener on the Cosby Show, too	Al Gore and his fawning wife aim to create a portrait of the family as a way of establishing his street cred should he decide to (hopefully, for the benefit of his Republican benefactors) run for president again.  Simply put the book is a naive, sentimental and sentenetious ode to piousness.  The piousness to which I allude here is not piousness in the religious sense, but rather piousness to Democrats' ideals: equality, egalitarianism, sentiment, romance, et cetera.  While his views on homosexuals are admirable and slightly interesting, so much of his words are strained and so much of his prose is calculated that the book ought not be called 'Joined At the Heart', but, rather, ought to be a play on Jack Welch's 'Straight from the Gut': 'Straight from a Political Consultant.'  If you have ever heard a spin doctor try to contextualize a flippant remark made by a politician (think Ari Fleischer covering up for a gaffe by Paul O'Neill) you will have an idea of the mess that is this book.  It tries to appease every constituency except that of the far right and offend none and in doing so devolves into a depressing mediocrity that is at the abject center of Democrats' listlessness in recent elections.  Save yourself the money and buy a book by Dr. Seuss if you want insight into the nature of the world.	2002-12-07
US	52977241	R10UOD6JGFCI25	0486267466	911190503	The Common Law	Books	5	0	7	N	N	classic work	Oliver Wendell Holmes is regarded as one of the finest American jurists in history; this book deserves the accolades it has received.	2002-08-17
US	52977241	R3E4XB37569ASV	0226474089	690100742	An Introduction to Legal Reasoning (Phoenix Books)	Books	5	26	32	N	N	ambiguity made clear	Legal reasoning is famously ambiguous: there's no objective way to determine the outcome of a given case as there is with a physics problem.  If you know the weight of an item and the height from which it drops, you are able to determine fairly objectively (i) the rate at which it will fall to the earth and (ii) the time it will take to fall to the earth from the point at which it is dropped.  Law, unfortunately, is not so straight-forward.  Understanding its assumptions is absolutely critical to developing any sort of sophisticated understanding about the ways in which law affects civilization.  This book provides a broad outline of those assumptions.  I suggest having at least a rudimentary background in intellectual history and political philosophy to get the most out of this book.	2002-08-17
US	52977241	R2FDN3KDF4LJI2	0379000733	550001183	Bramble Bush: On Our Law and Its Study	Books	5	19	24	N	N	very awkward writing	Professor Llewellyn's writing style is not easy.  It's not an antiquated style, but rather the style of an obviously erudite man whose mind is very active and whose thoughts are not always felicitously expressed.  If you've ever sat in a class with a professor you thought brilliant but a little &quot;nutty,&quot; this book will remind you of that professor.  Many of his phrases are either obscure or seemingly illogical.  My advice is that if you insist on doing a close textual reading of a book, do not read this book.  If, however, you are interested in picking up general themes about the study of law and its development from a distinguished--and somewhat obscure--legal mind, then this is the book for you.  It is not, emphatically, an easy book to read.  To put it simply: either Llewellyn had a poor editor or his editor never heard of Strunk &amp; White's Elements of Style.	2002-08-17
US	52977241	R1HM3MTCAB89VE	0837709121	368232105	Acing Your First Year of Law School: The Ten Steps to Success You Won't Learn in Class	Books	3	30	33	N	N	good advice, little substance	Law school is an enormous amount of work.  Understanding its complexity and demands requires a substantial body of text.  Trying to convey the intensity of the law school experience and the breadth of material you will need to learn is hard to convey in a \\"follow-these-ten-steps-to-certain-success\\" format.  While most of what this book suggest will likely work for the aspiring law student, it will only work if the aspiring law student has a context in which to apply the suggestions.  This sounds a little vague; I suggest reading _Getting to Maybe_ by Richard Fischl and Jeremy Paul.  It has the substance and contextual relevance that this book does not.	2002-08-17
US	52977241	R2498UDCHZ2RVF	0300000332	601988602	The Nature of the Judicial Process (The Storrs Lectures Series)	Books	5	13	13	N	N	excellent explanation of the process of justice	The judicial process is often a maddeningly confusing one.  Cardozo, one of the most well known and respected jurists in the history of American law, aims to give a relatively straightforward account of the judicial process.<br />The book is a good introduction to law and its processes.  It certainly is not an authoritative text, as certain of his discussions seem to be out of date.  However, given the authority accorded Cardozo in the legal world one can hardly go wrong starting out with this book.	2002-07-21
US	52977241	R2V7WKS8C563CN	0446675210	667562513	Big Deal: Mergers and Acquisitions in the Digital Age	Books	5	6	8	N	N	Extremely dry book	This book makes the Mojave look positively flush with water.  Mr. Wasserstein addresses a fascinating topic--mergers and acquistions--with all the passion of a mortician.<br />Why the five stars?  Mr. Wasserstein also happens to be a brilliant attorney, and have a remarkably substantive body of knowledge about innumerable large acquistions that have occurred over the past thirty years.  Indeed, in his bibliography, he writes: &quot;Much of the contemporary factual material in this book is drawn from memory.&quot;  That is an especially impressive statement, given that the book weighs in at over 900 pages.<br />Read the book if only to be impressed at the mind of such a man.<br />Interesting side note: Mr. Wasserstein's sister is a Pulitzer-prize-winning playwright, Wendy Wasserstein.  Her plays evince a passion utterly lacking in _Big Deal_.	2002-07-19
US	52977241	RYK85P96XC4QW	0890897603	669787265	Getting To Maybe: How to Excel on Law School Exams	Books	5	97	112	N	N	Impressive rigor	The aim of this book is to help current law students perform well on law school exams.  Law school exams are famously ambiguous; hence the title of the book.<br />The title of the book is a play on the title of a classic book about the art of negotiation, called _Getting to Yes_.  Implicit in _Getting to Maybe_ is that, unlike a negotiation, performance on law school exams does not require an exact answer or resolution.<br />The method by which these law professors explain this concept is especially interesting.  In connection with their academic research, they propose to break down law school exams into small components, and thoroughly analyze those components.  The result is a very substantial and comprehensive analysis of the structure of law school exams and the skills required to do well on these exams.<br />You may be asking how the professors purport to explain _all_ law school exams, for surely there are professors for whose exams these methods will not work.  These professors make the interesting point that in the United States, law education is fairly uniform, and, therefore, the skills required to perform well on law school exams are fairly uniform, as well.<br />I read this book prior to starting law school.  I found it useful primarily because I have read a number of other books about legal reasoning and the study of law and the law school experience that are more basic than the material in this book.  If this is your first book regarding the study of law or peformance in law school, I would advise putting it aside in favor of a book offering a broader overview of law, its study, and law school.	2002-07-19
US	52977241	R1C0SB7ZMIWIKR	0890898774	481703767	Starting Off Right in Law School	Books	5	40	40	N	N	Excellent primer on the study of law	This is a book, along with _Bramble Bush_, by Karl Llewellyn, and _Introduction to Legal Reasoning_, by Edward Levi, that all prospective law students ought to read.  Ms Nygren's method is to introduce the prospective law student to the concept and strategy of legal thinking and legal study.<br />In her introduction, she cites two reasons for having written the book: (1) to provide information about the legal system, and (2) to provide information about the study skills necessary for success.<br />These two themes are repeatedly addressed in this book.  It is very tightly focused and dry, but if you push yourself through the book you will learn a lot.  Ms Nygren starts the book with a hypothetical situation--in which you, the reader, are a lawyer, and a client comes in with a complaint about a restaurant's food--and then she takes you through the process of identifying the legal issues in the case, how to advocate for your client, et cetera.  Though she addresses only very small portion of &quot;the law&quot;--the liability faced by a restaurant--the detailed and close manner in which she takes the reader through this portion of the law is of obvious relevance to the rest of the law.<br />Ms Nygren provides a very comprehensive introduction to the structure of legal reasoning, and the kind of thinking needed by law students who wish to excel in their studies.	2002-07-16
US	52977241	R2FGKMDT25EWZG	047155491X	188420706	The Complete Law School Companion: How to Excel at America's Most Demanding Post-Graduate Curriculum	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Great, and out of date, book	This is an excellent primer on the law school experience that is out of date.  I recommend this book with the understanding that certain of its references are woefully--sometimes, amusingly--out of date.  The book was originally published in 1984, and subsequently revised in 1992--the blurb on the back cover reads, in part: &quot;Written by a former Wall Street lawyer, [the book] includes over 50% new material for today's law student.&quot;  Keep in mind that &quot;today's law student&quot; was today's law student 10 years ago, and therefore, references to first-year associates' salaries in Manhattan, costs of legal education, and computer and information technology are out of date.  Additionally, there is a brief section on the components of the LSAT, which, though I have not looked at closely, may also be out of date.<br />What, then, is this book good for?  I think it's good for introducing the prospective law student to a broad, strategic understanding of what the study of law is about, as well as practical steps to excel in its study.  These broad, &quot;high level&quot; concepts do not change frequently, and certainly, they do not change in twenty years.  Chapters such as &quot;Daily Survival in the Classroom&quot;, &quot;How to Brief Cases&quot;, &quot;Sample Briefs,&quot; and the chapters devoted to preparing for law school exams are excellent.<br />Essentially, therefore, read this book with the understanding that any reference to a fact or figure that sounds out of date, or inaccurate, probably is.	2002-07-13
US	52977241	R3H3QYE606N8K1	0060930861	901054422	Cloudsplitter: A Novel	Books	5	1	2	N	N	beautiful	Rare is the book that makes you consider the intent of its language instead of the structure of its narrative.<br />I read this novel while on an extended post-collegiate camping trip through the desert in Arizona.  Its language, I found, was appropriate for the vistas I encountered in the desolation of the Southwest.<br />I would comment further, but unfortunately it has been a while since reading this novel, and I do not want to be disingenuous here and relate more than I recall accurately.	2002-03-20
US	52977241	R3FVVI5H7UE399	0393310396	772590568	Letters to a Young Poet	Books	5	2	5	N	N	a study of mentors	The concept of the mentor is fraught these days with the idea of the eager young business school graduate looking to position himself in the light of a beneficent elder who can guide our eager young MBA through the thickets of corporate culture.<br />What, pray tell, does this have to do with the contents of a book by Rilke, you rightly ask yourself.  Consider the concept of a mentor: the person who is supposed to guide you, to whom you turn for answers to questions you realize your family is too biased to provide, upon whose experience you rely.  Rilke, in this book descibes his aesthetic sense, that is, how the poet is to relate to the world, to make sense of the world about which he writes.<br />It is a beautifully elegant and simple theme.  Those seeking mentors would do well to carry this book around and heed its lesson that the mentor you choose should not be the person with the most accolades but the person with the most empathy for you.	2002-03-20
US	52977241	R31HBXLL7JKL0V	0895261901	148709607	Bias: A CBS Insider Exposes How the Media Distort the News	Books	1	4	13	N	N	a trite complaint about a worthy subject	The subject of this book--liberal bias in news media--is one that desperately needs to be written about.  This is not the book that fills that void.  Too often the book sounds like Mr. Goldberg whining about attacks upon his character and his integrity rather than a disciplined critique of the liberal bias he finds so pervasive.<br />Add to the whining the chatty, flighty feel of the prose, and you have a book of not much substance about a very substantial issue.  The prose is broken up into bite-size chunks, which like the triviality of the news, does little to further debate.  Rather, Mr. Goldberg jumps from one issue to the next with nary a breath to consider or to think.  It all sounds a lot like Liz Smith, were Liz Smith complaining about the people who employ her and the triteness of the people about whom she writes.<br />Perhaps such writing is Mr. Goldberg's style (he was a newscaster after all) and perhaps the style is indicative of the American public's inability to pay attention to something for more than thirty seconds, but the political Right trumpets this book as the ideological cornerstone of their principles.  I hope that the Right has more substance to its beliefs that two sentence paragraphs complaining about \\"the Dan\\" and other newscasters.<br />Were the subject about which Mr. Goldberg attempted to write not so important, this book would only serve as a pathetic characterization of someone licking his wounds.  But since the subject he wants to write about is so important, the void to which Mr. Goldberg alludes--that of a conservative critique of the liberal news media--still exists.	2002-03-19
US	52977241	RFCZSJ1IUP8DQ	0316346624	226933679	The Tipping Point: How Little Things Can Make a Big Difference	Books	5	1	1	N	N	great book	What Mr. Gladwell wants you to do, though, is consider how that example--of the hotornot web site, for example--parallels seemingly unrelated phenomena, such as the attraction a TV show like _Blue's Clues_ has for children, or the way in which Hush Puppies took America by storm a few years back, or, tragically, how suicide among isolated populations can become a recurring theme of adolescent angst.<br />In all these examples, Mr. Gladwell's underlying point is that the nature of the tipping point is the same as that of the beginning of an epidemic: at what point did AIDS change from an autoimmune disease affecting a very specific subset of the population (well educated, urban gay men) to a disease that could affect any member of the human race?<br />Mr. Gladwell's talent is that he steps back from the details of each example and continually relates the overarching theme of his book: fads, epidemics, styles, and so on can in large part be explained by an amorphous period in which something belies the seeming limitations of its origins.	2002-03-19
US	52977241	RPJHJA34NFF98	0312278586	244886090	The Nanny Diaries: A Novel	Books	5	5	10	N	N	It's All About the Benjamins...	To borrow from the current movie of the same name, this book is all about the benjamins, though in a way not intended by the movie.  To be precise: this is a novel, much like _American Psycho_ or _Bonfire of the Vanities_ that represents a very strange and very competitive version of modern, urban America.  Specifically, that world is the Upper East Side of Manhattan between roughly the years of 1978 and 2002.  That is not to say this novel takes place during that period, but the people who populate its pages are of the same ilk as those that populate _American Psycho_, _Bonfire of the Vanities_, and for that matter, Gordon Gekko and his _Wall Street_ cronies.<br />OK, so what am I getting at here?  Well, the novel is a very acute sociological study of upper class Manhattan and its obsessions, its pathologies, its dysfunctions and its gossip.  Ever wonder why Lizzy Grubman rammed her SUV into the inn at Conscience Point?  Ever wonder why Robert Chambers murdered Jennifer Levin in Central Park?  All of it revolves around the lure of money--copious amounts of money--that flow freely from one pocket to another in the foyers and anterooms of Upper East Side duplexes.  It's all about the benjamins at heart.	2002-03-19
US	52977241	R3KG4MNRFJZE8	0385498500	530548729	The 12 Bad Habits That Hold Good People Back: Overcoming the Behavior Patterns That Keep You From Getting Ahead	Books	5	26	28	N	N	Complexity and perscipacity	I use the words complexity and perspicacity to discuss this book because the nature of the material the authors write about--the human mind and its behavior--is necessarily complex, while the authors display a very acute sense of those complexities.<br />If you are a well-read, emotionally literate, self-aware person, this book contains many ideas and tools you can use to &quot;get ahead&quot; in business.  Its scope, however, is not limited to the business world.  One would think that Bridget Jones et al would do well to use the ideas presented in this book.  At heart the book is not so much about the behaviors that hold you back in the business world, but, rather it is about the behaviors that hold you back, period.  The business world just contextualizes the nature of the consulting practice the authors have and the audience to whom they write (typically business students and executives).	2002-03-19
US	52977241	R2KM9FJSKPTHLS	0375404481	204882178	Uncle Tungsten: Memories of a Chemical Boyhood	Books	5	3	3	N	N	infectious	I will preface this review by saying I am not a scientifically literate person.  My educational background is in English and Philosohpy.  So I cannot pass judgement on the science, a lot of which was above me (or, should I say, a foggy memory from confused high school days).  In any event, what struck me about this book is the passion Mr. Sacks demonstrates for the subject act hand--whether that subject be mixing chemicals together or recalling one of his many aunts and uncles or his immediate family.  One rarely encounters prose writers whose passion for their family and their work is so infectious.	2002-03-19
US	52977241	R21FKFMGY33O2S	0393320405	223246019	A Random Walk Down Wall Street; Including a Life-Cycle Guide to Personal Investing	Books	5	0	2	N	N	Sensible	Straightforward and sensible.  Mr. Malkiel is one of those rare individuals who is able to convey complex mathematical and theoretical ideas in language that is elegant and accessible to a literate (but lay) reader.  One need not have a background in statistics to understand his arguments about the overall mediocrity of fund managers, and one need not have a background in the mathematics of calculus and time value to understand his explanation of derivatives.  Though the book requires concentration (it is not, say, Danielle Steele) those with the interest and cognitive ability will do well to read this book.	2001-12-26
US	52977241	R13Q0JD3A4HD3L	0151003386	187303968	The Advent of  the Algorithm: The Idea that Rules the World	Books	1	12	16	N	N	One is at a loss with this book...	I finally get it.  This book is one of those post-modern, self-referential exercises that demonstrate the abject artifices in which we live our diurnal lives.  <br />If that sentence struck you as overwrought and needlessly erudite you get an idea of the mess that is this book.  The book is littered with overwrought and purple prose, as many other reviewers note.  But its conceit is even worse: by asking the reader to wade through such a thicket of words, Berlinski thinks he will convey to his audience the romance of the algorithm.<br />How mathematics is romantic is anyone's guess.  I suppose there is a certain beauty in mathematical exposition (the Fibonacci series comes to mind), but romance?  Yes, algorithms, and the computers they allow to exist, have transformed the world.  But so has the Pill and the internal combustion engine.  Romance?  Remind me to seduce my griflriend with visions of her pregnant while out on the open road.  Come on, this is a book that's supposed to be about the algorithm.  Romantic flights of fancy aside, the book ought to focus on its subject.  I'm not aware that it does.  Maybe it does in the sense that Bertolt Brecht's plays subverted the traditional play-audience relationship: Brecht knew his audience knew that they experienced an artifice, a fictional world.  Is Berlinski trying to be Brechtian?	2001-07-22
US	52977241	R2SLUX2O2MNJ5G	0140157352	307913571	Getting to Yes: Negotiating Agreement Without Giving In	Books	5	4	9	N	N	Arrogant in their intent but admirable in their method	The authors propose that all the world's difficulties could be resolved if only parties adhered to the principles of negotiation outlined in this book.  I doubt, of course, that the Israelis and Palenstinians, for example, could find an ever-lasting peace simply by adhering to the principles laid out in this book.  Such thinking is reductive, naive and quite possibly arrogant.  In any event, that caveat aside, what the authors present is an interesting set of tools one can use in negotiating with another party.  While most people will find themselves negotiating in situations far less dire than that of the Israelis and Palestinians (a business deal, a divorce, inheritances, etc.), the tools _in theory_ are applicable everywhere.  However, the authors fail to prove that the tools are _in practice_ applicable everywhere.  This failure to prove the tools' applicability in practice may be attributable to the authors' hailing from the theoretical shield of academia.	2001-07-22
US	52977241	R3Q04R5V2CEM7N	0060175869	664906388	From Dawn to Decadence: 1500 to the Present: 500 Years of Western Cultural Life	Books	4	7	17	N	N	over my head	Call me a jaded product of the late twentieth century, but certain of the author's attitudes and certain of the implications he makes in his narrative remind me too much of someone insecure about their feeling of irrelevance in the larger world--i.e., the world outside academia.  As is all too often the sad fate of academic intellectuals, Dr. Barzun seems blinded by his insistence to apply an intellectual rigor to the study of history vis a vis the downfall of the culture he holds in such high regard.  The last hundred pages of the book read like a testament to his insecurity that Western civilization is quickly slouching toward a low-brow hell (to borrow Bork's thesis).  This is old hat, of course.  No matter how much one might loathe Britney Spears, Eminem and any number of other pop icons of the past 50 (100?) years, one must remember that in his day, Shakespeare was considered a playwright as Redd Foxx was considered a comedian: bawdy but very talented and observant.  How are we to be so arrogant as to judge the recent past from such a lofty perspective as Dr. Barzun wants us to?  We simply can't, and it is on this note that his book falls on his own arrogance.	2001-07-07
US	52977241	R2PB0URGY2NSZC	0764546090	523690565	Microsoft Excel 2000 Formulas	Books	5	2	9	N	N	compels you to consider and use the rigors of logic	Mr. Walkenbach's book is interesting if only because it is so well written that it continually reinforces the imperative of sound logic in the design of spreadsheets.  His instruction is very cogent; that cogency fosters an environment in which the reader is continually reminded of the concept that faulty assumptions several formulas back will pervert data which rely upon those faulty assumptions.  If you can understand that concept intuitively as you design a spreadsheet--basically, if you can audit the logic and math of your spreadsheet--then you will go a long way with Excel (and other such applications of logic--be they programming, writing, etc.)  In short, if you can focus on the rigor that Mr. Walkenbach applied to his book, then you can use that rigor in a variety of environments outside of Excel.	2001-07-07
US	52977241	REUXCA89XA78H	157805026X	583527634	The Lost River	Books	5	2	3	N	N	I want to run rivers	Having navigated only a few rivers, none of them virgin, my interest was piqued when a former boss of mine told me about this guy Richard Bangs she knows.  So I ... read the reviews, ...Suffice it to say I sat down with the book in hand, looked up roughly three hours later, and noticed I finished the book.  The last book I recall which captivated me so was Dostoevsky's Notes From Underground.<br />In any event, the narrative is always fascinating if the prose is somewhat heavy-handed or purple at points.	2001-05-26
US	52977241	R25VIXZPEAUGSQ	0446525561	487605353	Monkey Business: Swinging Through the Wall Street Jungle	Books	5	3	4	N	N	The book erased my naivete	Struggling at a dying dot com making a pittance compared to i-bankers makes the banking industry all that more intriguing a career move.  But, alas, I've been warned by some in the know that my anti-authoritarian attitude and subversive and ironic tendencies would not mesh well with the hidebound and regimented processes that i-bankers endure on their way to Greenwich.  The book affirmed this for me; private equity firms or a hedge fund look more appealing now.  These two authors have that rare, and elusive, ability to reflect upon their experiences in a manner that conveys the absurdity of those experiences while highlighting the self-awareness that such absurdity oddly engenders.	2001-02-14
US	52977241	R20IX9Y5CLQF7C	0140188592	468027632	Gravity's Rainbow (Classic, 20th-Century, Penguin)	Books	3	0	3	N	N	Feel Naked and Dead reading this.	I first picked a copy of this book up when I was fifteen or so, as I was searching through my dad's library of books.  Now I'm in college, an English major.  Last semester, I was in a class devoted to Joyce; this semeser, a class devoted to Shakespeare.  Neither professor felt a need to justify their respective subject's canonicity.  But everyone I come across feels an overwhelming need to justify Pynchon's canonicity.  Why?  That for me is the problem with this book: is it so ponderous as to be an ostentatious piece of loquacity or is it a cogent discourse on the frailties of the human mind a la Ulysses, Portrait, Hamlet, Lear?  The jury is out.	1998-02-08
US	52977241	R2OJOSZ7CDOD2F	0679744398	270121541	All the Pretty Horses (The Border Trilogy, Book 1)	Books	5	0	2	N	N	The parthenon of literature	Briefly noted:  McCarthy's body of work has thus far been compared to: Homer, Dante, Milton, Cervantes, Shakespeare, Melville, Faulkner, Joyce, Woolf.  Among others.  Need we explicate further?	1997-12-12
US	52977241	R23XQ9ZTPX9VKM	0385086954	769595666	Carrie	Books	1	3	38	N	N	Predictable	No one said Stephen King is a literary writer, and this novel, like all his others, proves that point aptly.	1997-05-15
US	52977241	RULWKAINTXAUR	0393314804	232683594	Trainspotting	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Surreal	So I cheated.  I haven't read the book, but I saw the movie, and if that is any indication, this is a book in the spirit of A Clockwork Orange and other drug-induced classics.  I highly recommend both the book and the movie to anyone at all interested in the obsessions of drug addicts and their culture	1996-07-25
