US	52976897	R2JAZ7WOTFO6UB	0072126639	101096209	Mac OS X: The Complete Reference	Books	2	8	10	N	N	Too General for Most Mac OS X Users	As a Mac power user for almost ten years, I've seen quite a few sad Macs, bombs, and blinking question marks on monitors. What I hadn't seen before upgrading my PowerBook to a TiBook with OS X about six months ago was a Unix command-line interface. Until recently, I had dealt with major OS X crashes by rebooting in OS 9.2.2 (a.k.a. Classic) and then resetting the Startup Disk control panel preference to OS 10.1.4 (OS X) and hitting the restart button. One day, I was tweaking some data in the NetInfo Manager utility and some related library files, and somehow I accidentally trashed my root password. When I rebooted, I encountered the command-line interface on a black screen, with a line of text that read 'etc/master.passwd not found.' I entered my System Administrator and sysadmin (root) logins and passwords to no avail. Next, I reached for my copy of 'Mac OS X: The Complete Reference' by Jesse Feiler, which I had received as a gift but had never had occasion to use much. <br />'Using the Command Line,' Chapter 21, is intended for use with the OS X Terminal utility application, not for use in the situation I have described above. However, I entered almost every command listed there, from 'sudo' to 'chmod' to 'mkdir.' Nothing worked. I couldn't access the Mac Network Administration Help file for this problem because I needed to be logged onto the OS X network to do so, and I couldn't log on. I looked in this 'Complete Reference' for the troubleshooting section, and there wasn't one. The index didn't even have a listing for 'troubleshooting,' except for one on 'troubleshooting utilities,' which wouldn't have been useful for this kind of problem. I rebooted into Classic from a CD and then did enough online research to figure out that the best way for me to solve the problem would be to do a backup of my files, reinitialize the hard disk, and reinstall the OS X and OS 9.2 system software, applications, and files. <br />Next, I decided to partition the 48 GB hard drive. (The new TiBook had shipped with OS X and Classic pre-installed on one partition.) I consulted the 'Complete Reference' for some advice on partitioning. On page 103, there was one long paragraph that ended with this recommendation: 'One strategy is to create a small partition - with a very stable set of software - on your hard disk.' In other words, this book recommended that I create two partitions, one small (used for rebooting purposes) and one large (for everything else). There was no information on formatting with Unix, which it is possible to do by using Disk Utility. On pages 239-41, I found more vague information on using Disk Utility for partitioning that didn't answer my questions. 'Complete Reference' made the assumption that unless one was a software developer or tester, there would be no need for more than two partitions on one's internal hard drive. I had been doing extensive beta testing with OS X software applications, not industry related or for fun but out of necessity because so many of my apps for OS 9.x had not interfaced well, and some not at all, with OS X. <br />'Mac OS X: The Complete Reference' is an 800-page general overview. It gives a succinct history of the Mac OS evolution from 1984 to today, including chapters on Classic, Carbon, and Cocoa. From my perspective, the information presented in this book is too simplistic for most Mac users. The 'Using Mac OS X' section may be helpful to first-time Mac users who prefer a nonintuitive approach to learning their way around the Aqua environment. The information on iTools is nothing more than what is available at the Apple site. The 'Networking' chapter has very basic information that could be useful to Internet and Intranet novices. I think the lack of troubleshooting advice is a glaring omission. Based on other reviewers' helpful advice, I'm purchasing John Ray's 'Mac OS X Unleashed'  to assist me with what's 'under the hood' with OS X, and Robin Pogue's 'Missing Manual' for some new 'tips and tricks.'	2002-05-26
US	52976897	R3B75R7LHHC3Q	0345450884	431887144	The Lake of Dead Languages	Books	3	6	9	N	N	Evocative Adirondack Pastoral	As other reviewers have noted, there was too much 'tell' and not enough 'show' in Carol Goodman's Adirondack pastoral suspense novel, 'The Lake of Dead Languages.' Her fine poetic writing skillfully evoked a mood of place at the private girls' boarding school in upstate New York, but there were too many refrains of ice creaking and lake lapping in this overlong novel. The Latin classroom scenes, pagan rites, and lakeside idylls were well drawn. Ms. Goodman authentically portrayed learning of Latin declensions, sight reading debacles, and dorm-room confabs. However, I found the erratic interchange of 'goddess' names and real names for many of the characters to be confusing. It seemed at times that 'Lake' was to be a modern interpretation of a Greek tragedy, such as Euripedes's 'Iphigenia in Aulis' or 'Iphigenia in Tauris.' Instead, there was a mlange of themes: jealousy, lust, revenge, bloodletting, banishment, murder, suicide, and incest, thus turning opera into soap opera and drama into melodrama. Nonetheless, there were enough secrets and suspense in this literary mystery to keep me turning the pages till dawn. As I had correctly guessed 'whodunit,' I thought the crafting of the mystery could have been better. Even so, 'The Lake of Dead Languages' marks an auspicious debut for Ms. Goodman and is well worth reading.	2002-04-26
US	52976897	RYG3QHXC7GEPL	039914739X	683788691	Isle of Dogs	Books	2	20	25	N	N	Patsy Goes PoMo	In a departure from her many forensic thriller books, Patricia Cornwell has written in 'Isle of Dogs' a silly satire of the Commonwealth of Virginia, including Tangier Island. She skewers the First Family and the state police among others. 'Dogs' is the third book that features Andy Brazil, now a state trooper, and Judy Hammer, now superintendent of the Virginia State Police. (They were also in 'Southern Cross' and 'The Hornet's Nest.') It took me several days to finish this overlong book, unlike most of Ms. Cornwell's previous page-turners. As a fan of her Dr. Kay Scarpetta series, except for 'The Last Precinct,' I tried to suspend judgment on 'Dogs' and be open-minded about its postmodern narrative. Even so, aside from some very comical dialogue, I couldn't find much to like about this novel. Dr. Scarpetta made a cameo appearance in two chapters, but she seemed robotic. Judy Hammer was among the least-developed characters in the book. The quasi-historical Internet postings by Trooper Truth a.k.a. Andy Brazil were informative at times but distracted from the narrative flow. Governor Crimm's 'submarine' seemed like a poor imitation of Ignatius J. Reilly's valve. 'Dogs' is somewhat like other postmodern satires I've read, but it never really comes together as a novel. Ms. Cornwell, count me as another disappointed fan who would like to see a revitalized Kay Scarpetta back on the scene.	2002-04-24
US	52976897	R16KMFYNH6HO03	0618197303	157710736	In the Forest: A Novel	Books	5	25	25	N	N	Simply Stunning	After reading the opening paragraph of this newest novel from Edna O'Brien, 'In the Forest,' I was hooked. Her lush prose is so descriptive that I felt I was being drawn into that dark wood to revisit the scene of one of the most heinous crimes in the Irish Republic in the past twenty years. Between April 29 and May 7, 1994, Brendan O'Donnell, 20, abducted five people and murdered three. The innocent victims, whose bodies were found in shallow graves in Cleggs Woods, were artist Imelda Riney, her 3-year-old son, Liam, and Father Joe Walsh. At the time, the consciousness of the countryside of County Clare, where Ms. O'Brien had grown up, was galvanized in fear of this psychopathic killer. 'They are afraid of him now, the Kinderschreck, one of their own sons come out of their own soil, their own flesh and blood, gone amok.' Mr. O'Donnell was arrested, tried, and sentenced to life imprisonment, but, in 1997, he died while in prison from a drug interaction.<br />Not since reading 'In Cold Blood,' by Truman Capote, have I encountered a book based on a true crime as riveting as this one. This Irish Gothic novel is 'faction'; Ms. O'Brien bases her narrative on factual events around the time of the crime, but she has fictionalized the names and places. The editorial reviews give a good plot synopsis for this novel, so I will focus my remarks elsewhere. <br />Ms. O'Brien uses the true crime story as a springboard to comment on the Irish experience. Here she handles such hot topics as politics and sexual politics, paganism, priest pedophilia, and child abuse. As Jeanette Winterson stated recently on a BBC panel that discussed this book, '[t]he 20th century has been the century all the ordinary categories have been broken down, between fiction and non-fiction, between the real and the imagined, between autobiography and invention. . . . Edna O'Brien succeeds here perfectly.'<br />Her style in this novel is what I might call 'Faulkneresque-lite.' About when I would think the prose was becoming too purple for my taste, she seemed to shift into a sparer phrasing. The Gothic style is a perfect match for the story because her descriptions of the forest are so vivid that one feels fear and dread and senses the gloom of this place without light. 'How engulfing the darkness, how useless their tracks in the rust-brown carnage of old dead leaves. Pines and spruces close together, their tall solid trunks like an army going on and on, in unending sequence, furrows of muddy brown water and no birds and no sound other than that of a wind, unceasing, like the sound of a distant sea. But it is not sea, it is Cloosh Wood, and they are being marched through it.' <br />One approach to reading, 'In the Forest,' would be to look at the forest, woods, and trees - the landscape - as metaphor. Her powerful prose imagery engages the imagination through an association of forests and woods with primordial fears of dark, damp, deep, and devouring places. The pacing of the story is brilliant, and it keeps one turning pages well into the wee hours of the morning. My sole criticism of this stunning book has to do with the ending, which has a bit of a tacked-on feel to it. While there may be an essential Irishness to the need for atonement and repentance, the narrative here seems somewhat contrived. The final passage is a bit of Irish magic, as if to say that the darkness ends here, now come to the light. <br />'In the Forest' contains an evocative icon: 'the Kinderschreck,' or 'meaning someone of whom small children are afraid.' This image of bogeyman or monster is part of our collective unconscious. It's found in our fairy tales and is sometimes used to scare children into being good. The women in the search party for the victims of 'the Kinderschreck,' Michen O'Kane, said, 'Deep down we believe he has been sent by God, as punishment upon us.' <br />As many have said, Edna O'Brien is one of the greatest working novelists today. If you've not read any of her books, 'In the Forest' is a good place to begin.	2002-04-18
US	52976897	R1W5FMUSICFLFA	1889330655	406290181	Bread for the Baker's Child: A Novel	Books	5	11	12	N	N	Intense and Thought Provoking	When informed of his sister Aggie's emotional collapse following a tragic fire that had caused the demise of thirty eighth-graders at the school where she was Sister Superior, Phillip 'Peppy' Manrahan was faced with a Heinz dilemma. Aggie, a nun who went by the religious name of Sister Mary Rachel, needed electroconvulsive shock therapy in order to cure her of screaming fits and grief-induced psychosis. Because Phillip held a long-simmering rage and resentment over the lack of respect that his corporation's superiors had shown him, he decided to use his expertise as an accountant to embezzle company funds to pay for Aggie's treatment. His thievery didn't stop there. He continued to cook the company books as a way to endow the Order of the Sisters of the Annunciation with funds for a new wing of the college library and much-needed repairs for their schools, convents, and Motherhouse - more than one million dollars in all. The Order had graciously accepted these donations from their anonymous benefactor, not knowing that he was a thief and Sister Rachel's younger brother. Later, when Phillip heard about the cancellation of an office colleague's health insurance because he had AIDS, Phillip's rage at the company resurfaced, and he resorted to embezzlement again to help Jack. After Jack's death, Phillip was caught for stealing the twenty-three thousand dollars that he had given Jack and was sentenced to prison for four years. <br />There, Phillip, a handsome gay man in his fifties, became the protector of another inmate, Talford Starbuck, a younger man with a hideous disfigurement. At first, their hooking up was only a sham, designed to protect the fragile Starbuck from other inmates. As time went by, they fell in love. Then, a terrible chain of events caused several deaths and brought about Phillip's condemnation to death row, sentenced to die in the electric chair. At the same time that Phillip was doing his prison time, Sister Rachel was tending to her dying Mother General in an old mansion in an unnamed location. After Mother's death, the remaining half-dozen sisters in this moribund Order would be scattered to new assignments, and the Motherhouse would be bulldozed. <br />In alternating passages, the reader is swept along from prison to convent and back again, with intricate flashbacks and recalled memories that serve to provide insights and clues to the characters' motivations and situations. The narrative structure resembles a fugue, with themes stated and restated, then varied, then counterpointed. One overarching theme in the novel is taken from Scripture, from Saint Paul's first letter to the Corinthians, where he exhorts them to abide by what was known later as the Enchiridion and reminds them of what the Church would later call the theological virtues of faith, hope, and love (or charity, depending on the translation). 'If I have not charity' is the responsorial thread that is woven through the narrative. A second overarching theme is the 'Magnificat' from the gospel of Luke, which is Mary's response to the Annunciation: 'My soul gives glory to the Lord and my spirit rejoices in God my Savior.' A third overarching theme is the Last Supper.<br />The title of the novel, 'Bread for the Baker's Child' is echoed in its epigraph: 'No one is worse shod than the shoemaker's child' and is repeated throughout in its gentle insistence on charity. The novel portrays many acts of charity. Sister Rachel made two bereavement calls: one to Mrs. Levy, the mother of one of the children who burned to death in the school fire, and the other to the mother of the murdered prison guard, (which reminded me of the visits that Sister Helen Prejean, the author of 'Dead Man Walking,' has made to the bereaved families of the men that she had counseled on Death Row). At the most intense part of the novel, Aggie and Peppy prayed together for those who had died. <br />Not since reading Mark Salzman's 'Lying Awake,' have I come across such a realisticportrayal of nuns, as is found in the characters of Mother General and Sister Rachel. All romantic and idealistic notions of religious life are brushed aside to show these two wonderful flawed human beings who also happen to be nuns. In the character of Phillip, one finds a gay man who has turned away from the Church because he could not be accepted there. Intense irony is present in the prison scenes with a priest who is too tired to tend his flock and a nun who wants to be there but is not allowed because she's not a member of the clergy. <BR> <BR>'Bread for a Baker's Child' by Joseph Caldwell is a short novel that one might read from different perspectives. From one point of view, 'Bread' is a Catholic novel that examines the conscience of contemporary Catholicism; from another, it is a morality tale of sin and salvation; further, it is a Dostoyevskian narrative of crime and punishment; moreover, it is a story of redemptive suffering; and finally, one might find here an articulation of the mystical union between God, and a brother and sister, whose souls and destinies are forever entwined. Still, I do not exhaust the possibilities of meaning that one might find here, for to do so would require much rereading and reflection. Mr. Caldwell has been away from the literary scene for ten years, and, with this amazing book, he has returned.	2002-04-14
US	52976897	R13F8YEQ1FGHXC	1582431558	643966353	The Lantern Bearers	Books	5	6	6	N	N	A Scottish Summer of '62	There was nothing to mar your days, if you were a boy summering in that part, but the embarrassment of pleasure. You might golf if you wanted; but I seemed to have been better employed.' [Robert Louis Stevenson, 'The Lantern-bearers,' in 'Across the Plains.' London: Chattus & Windus, 1892.] In the summer of 1962, these words could have conveyed the sentiments of Neil Pritchard, a 14-year-old Glasgow youth who was vacationing with his Aunt Nessie at her home in Auchendrennan, a seaside village in the southwestern corner of Scotland that was also home to composer Euan Bone and his partner, cellist Douglas Maitland. Mr. Bone had been setting the words of this Stevenson essay to music, and he had engaged Neil to assist him in the task. Neil lent more to the composition than his soprano voice, however, as he soon became muse to Bone. <br />The story actually started thirty-five years hence, when Neil met with a publisher in an upscale Kensington restaurant to discuss his proposal that Neil write a biography of a composer who had died in 1963. It was to be 'an honest account. Provocative, if need be.' Neil had other business to attend to in London before he flew back to his home in Rome; he consulted an intestinal specialist who imparted the sad news that Neil was dying from inoperable cancer. The irrefutable evidence of his x-rays prompted Neil to accept the publisher's offer because 'I had to set the record straight. I had to unblock my memory, I had to make my atonement. Two ghosts from long ago had to be laid to rest.'<br />'The Lantern Bearers' by Ronald Frame is a dark tale of obsessive love and betrayal. It's a moody coming-of-age story of a gay adolescent in a class society; it's set in Scotland, but it could be anywhere. The narrative is spare, but it's sprinkled with colorful Scotticisms - not a word is wasted, and no more words are needed. <br />Neil was at the liminal age of being part boy and part man, and his experiences that summer were to haunt him for theremainder of his life. His sexuality was awakening, and he described his ambivalent feelings by saying, ' 'Masturbation'. 'Homosexual'. There was an association in my mind.' But his recollection of a movie theatre flasher belied the insights that he had gained from observing the lives of his new acquaintances: 'I knew what Maitland and Bone were, even though I didn't understand all that the condition entailed. What I chiefly realised was that the pair were different, they didn't live by the precepts of ordinary people, but didn't go out of their way to offend them either. They had fashioned their own world, observing their own values, which they protected as something apart but to which they had a perfect right.' As Neil's voice had cracked and changed, so did the world around him. In an attempt to prevent his home life from unraveling, he told his father a lie that would have dire consequences.<br />About halfway through this page-turner, I decided to look up Robert Stevenson's 'The Lantern-bearers' on the Internet, because the novel's narrative is spliced together with words from this short essay, along with Neil's reflections on them. It was quite easy to find the full text; it was part of a larger work entitled 'Across the Plains.' I enjoyed rereading it as I finished the book. For, as Neil said, '[t]here was no proper narrative. In the essay, Stevenson had offered poetic prose descriptions. Bone was locating his drama in the continual shifts and contrasts of tone, the counterpointing of moods, veering and tacking over and over again.' The essay told a story of boys who had attached 'toasted tinware' candle lanterns to cricket belts worn on their waists and concealed beneath buttoned-up overcoats. 'By their lanterns the boys will know one another; they are bonded in a brotherhood by the shared secret of what they carry under their coats hidden from view.' I found this image hard to visualize until I happened to come across a reproduction of 'The Lantern Bearers,' a 1908 oil painting by Maxfield Parrish that portrayed a more fanciful rendering of a similar scene. Of course, the image is metaphorical, too, but Stevenson's descriptive prose makes one want to picture such a phenomenon.<br />As an author of eleven previous books, Mr. Frame shows a mastery here of the art of writing fiction about music, composers, and composition. I'm not a musician and not able to attest to the authenticity of this aspect to the story, but composer Ned Rorem has given it high praise. Mr. Frame allows the reader to climb inside his characters' skulls, thereby becoming part of the artistic and creative process of musical composition, to experience the joys and frustrations that accompany such an endeavor. 'The Lantern Bearers' is a worthy successor to the works of Daphne du Maurier and Alfred Hitchcock, and it won the Saltire Award for Scottish Book of the Year in 2000.	2002-04-11
US	52976897	R3SDMNC57X7RKY	0805067752	215995297	Gone: A Novel	Books	4	7	8	N	N	Another Painful Case	'Gone,' the astounding debut novel of Irish writer Martin Roper, is an unsentimental look at the life of Stephen, a Dubliner who embarks on an almost-Joycean odyssey of bereavement and betrayal. Four-letter words abound in Stephen's candid narration and underscore his cynical and misanthropic worldview. This anti-portrait begins with a middle-of-the-night phone call from the hospice informing him of the impending death of his younger sister, Ruth, from cancer. 'Don't crash. Just get there,' Stephen says to himself. Such interior monologue punctuates the spare and unsparing prose in 'Gone,' which is also peppered by unattributed dialogue. Frequent mentions of the past as well as flashbacks are the scaffold for Stephen's story.<br />He marries his sixth-year school sweetheart, Ursula, and joins the workaday world as a painter of television set frames. Ursula, who is a step above Stephen's lower-working-class origin, works as a journalist and becomes 'a paragraph out of some feminist pamphlet.' Soon the one-legged Ursula and her emasculated husband buy a fixer-upper in Irishtown with her money. Neighborhood toughs taunt them and throw rocks at their windows, so they are forced to abandon their home, each going a separate way. <br />Running from the death throes of his marriage and 'the crude trap of Dublin,' Stephen emigrates to New York. In Manhattan, he meets a free-spirited daughter of the sixties, Icelandic photographer Holmfridur 'Holfy' Olafsdottir. Holfy is a recent widow who is fifteen years older than the now thirty-something Stephen. After the euthanasia of her cat, Holfy goes away to visit friends and leaves Stephen in her studio. During Holfy's parting instructions on plant watering, Stephen recalls a boyhood incident of near-asphyxiation at the hands of his cousin, Brian, that is analogous to the suffocation that he feels at being married to Ursula. For even though Stephen has left Ursula, he still chokes at releasing himself from her grip.<br />Stephen soon returns to Dublin, to his father's deathbed. He spares him the truth of his boyhood rage, so that Da 'dies happy with the inaccurate knowledge that I love him unconditionally.'  Stephen consoles himself with a litany of self-deception: <br />'There is no resentment. I will not wound my life with bitterness. . . . There is no resentment. There is no absolution. Would need to know all to forgive all. I know more than enough. How can one know a man who lived every spare moment in front of a television, believing in his heart that his wife might walk back in any moment and all would be well?'<br />After another unsavory visit with Ursula, Stephen returns to life in New York with Holfry. Yet, during intimate moments with her, his thoughts cling to Ursula. It's not quite clear how he supports himself, but it seems that he's a writer. After seeing his work one night, Holfry writes a seven-page response in which she advises him to <br />'go deeper. . . . Forget about understanding death. My husband. Your sister. Your father. We do not have death in common. We have grief and life. . . .There is nothing to learn about death except that it is not living. Stop looking for meaning. Go back to the writing. . . . Make up your mind if you want to write or type. . . . Break the rhythm. Annoy. . . . Write about our love with unflinching honesty. . . . Balance your sentences with arrogance and indifference. Put commas in the wrong place. This is our story and syntax will not hold it.'<br />Stephen soon leaves Holfry and sojourns in the Midwest. Here his story unravels as he spends his days in a vodka-gimleted stupor. 'There is no forever, only the eternity of our little beginnings and endings.' All the bereavements compound the loss that Stephen had felt after his mother had abandoned the family when he was a boy. Her betrayal set in motion the series of betrayals that Stephen endures and perpetuates throughout his life. The rocks that schoolmates threw at him as a boy resound in the rocks that neighborhood toughs throw at his and Ursula's house. Stephen's 'lovehating' pattern with women has been one of leaving them before they could leave him.<br />His odyssey continues with a trip back to New York to revisit Holfry, who walks away but leaves him a note with some scribbled words from T.S. Eliot: ' We shall not cease from exploration / And the end of all our exploring / Will be to arrive where we started / And know the place for the first time.' <br />On his way back to Ireland, Stephen stops off in Wales to look up his mother whom he hasn't seen in thirty years, and his story ends with a seaside epiphany reminiscent of James Joyce's 'Dubliners.' If one can look past some crude words and graphic situations that are encountered in this hard-bitten tale, one will find insights here into cruel realities that mark the human condition. 'The most horrific truth is forgetting, forgetting and going on. But there is no choice. The only option is to live a fiercely joyous life knowing full well that misery leans against every street corner.'	2002-04-02
US	52976897	R2MLZM5QS55DKY	0809317729	416813816	Six Masters of the Spanish Sonnet: Francisco de Quevedo, Sor Juana Ines de la Cruz, Antonio Machado, Federico Garcia Lorca, Jorge Luis Borges, Miguel Hernandez	Books	5	10	10	N	N	Masterful Translations of Spanish Sonnets	The sonnet form was introduced to Spain from Sicily in the fifteenth century through the writing of El Marqués de Santillana (1398-1458), a poet who wrote Petrarchan sonnets in Spanish. During the Renaissance, the Italian sonnet made its way to most of the countries of Western Europe. In England, Edmund Spenser changed the Petrarchan rhyming form of 'abba abba cdecde' to 'abab bcbc cdcd ee,' and William Shakespeare wrote 154 sonnets with the form 'abab cdcd efef gg.' As Willis Barnstone says in the introduction to his book, 'Six Masters of the Spanish Sonnet,' 'the Spanish sonnet, a literary vagabond in courtly dress, began in the court of the Sicilian Frederic II, went up to England, and finally, seven centuries after its Italian birth, with its picaresque wits and form intact, dropped down just above the Antarctic Circle to appear in the poems of the Argentine Anglophile [his maternal grandmother was English] Borges.' Professor Barnstone goes on to present a thorough history of the evolution of the Spanish sonnet and a colorful biography of six Spanish language poets who used the form. His writing is informed by his long friendship with Jorge Luis Borges. Barnstone offers here a sampling of 112 Spanish sonnets by these six masters, placed side by side along with his own magnificent translations. <br />Francisco de Quevedo (1580-1645) is described as a 'monstruo de la naturaleza' [monster of nature] because of his prodigious outpouring of writing. 'Like Swift, Dostoyevski, and Kafka, he is one of the most tormented spirits and visionaries of world literature ['El Buscón' (The Swindler), 1626, is his masterpiece] and also one of the funniest writers ever to pick up a sharp, merciless pen.' Though Quevedo's sonnets are at times scatological and darkly satirical, they are also humorous and hopeful.<br />Sor Juana Inés de la Cruz (1648/51-1695) was a Mexican discalced Carmelite nun who is considered by some religious scholars to be the first female theologian of theAmericas. Although I was familiar with her love poems and her articulate defense of a woman's right to write in 'Response to Sor Filotea,' I had not read her sonnets in translation before. As he does with all six sonneteers, Barnstone faithfully maintains Sor Juana's rhyming, meter, and cadence in his translations of her sonnets. His analysis encompasses her writing and her life, including some critique of Octavio Paz's definitive biography, 'Sor Juana, or The Traps of Faith.' <br />Antonio Machada (1875-1939) recalls the landscape of his native Sevilla in his sonnets. In, 'El amor y la sierra' (Love and the Sierra), he writes, 'Calabaga por agria serranía / una tarde, entre roca cenicienta. (He was galloping over harsh sierra ground, / one afternoon, amid the ashen rock).' Barnstone calls Machado 'the Wang Wei of Spain' because 'he uses the condition of external nature to express his passion.' As Petrarch had his Laura, Machado had his Guiomar (Pilar de Valderrama). In 'Dream Below the Sun,' he writes, 'Your poet / thinks of you. Distance / is of lemon and violet, / the fields still green. / Come with me, Guiomar. / The sierra will absorb us. / The day is wearing out / from oak to oak.'<br />Federico García Lorca (1898-1936) was a Spanish poet and playwright who was affected by Luis de Góngorra and gongorismo. His 'Gypsy Ballads' was 'the most popular book of poetry in the Spanish language in his time.' Barnstone states that 'his closest attachment, his passion, was the painter Salvador Dalí,' with whom he carried on a six year love affair. Luis Buñuel castigated him for his Andalusianism; indeed, Lorca felt that Buñuel's satiric and surrealist film 'Un chien andalu' mocked him. After traveling to New York and Havana, Lorca became 'the playwright of Spain' with his brilliant 'Bodas de Sangre' (Blood Wedding). His 'Sonnets of Dark Love,' unpublished during his lifetime, were probably written to Rafael Rodríguez Rapún, an engineering student. Barnstone believes that 'dark love' is an allusion to San Juan de la Cruz's 'dark night of the soul.' <br />Jorge Luis Borges (1899-1986) of Argentina considered himself a poet, though he was a master at prose.  According to Barnstone, because of the blindness that afflicted Borges in midlife, 'he could compose and polish a sonnet while waiting for a bus or walking down the street' and then later dictate it from memory. 'Borges's speech authenticated his writing, his writing authenticated his speech. To have heard him was to read him. To have read him was to have heard him.' In 'Un ciego' (A Blindman), he says, 'No sé cuál es la cara que me mira / Cuando miro la cara del espejo; / No sé qué anciano acecha en su reflejo / Con silenciosa y ya cansada ira. (I do not know what face looks back at me / When I look at the mirrored face, nor know / What aged man conspires in the glow / Of the glass, silent and with tired fury.)'<br />Miguel Hernández (1910-1942), a poor goatherd and pastor from the province of Alicante in Spain, wrote his best poetry while imprisoned during the Spanish Civil War. 'In the prisons, Hernández became,' in Barnstone's opinion, 'the consummate poet of light, darkness, soul, time, and death.' One of his poems, 'Llegó con tres heridas' (He came with three wounds), is a popular song, recorded by Joan Baez on her 'Gracias a La Vida' album. <br />'Six Masters of the Spanish Sonnet' is recommended to all who love this poetic form and want to know more about the lives of these remarkable poets. A good index and list of references are included for further study.	2002-03-13
US	52976897	R1RUNZJ5Z8CAP3	1566492254	458573740	Edinburgh	Books	4	5	6	N	N	A Survivor's Story	'Edinburgh,'  is an exceptional debut novel by Alexander Chee that tells the story of a gay Korean-American youth, Aphias Zhe, nicknamed Fee, who survives sexual abuse by his choir director, Big Eric Gorendt. Fee grows up in Cape Elizabeth, 'a town still half full of farms' near Portland, Maine, as part of a multi-generational family. He is twelve when the story begins, and he auditions for the Pine State Boys Choir and is selected along with another boy, Peter, who becomes his best friend and first love. Fee's story is told on many levels: 'This is a fox story,' Fee says. 'Of how a fox can be a boy. And so it is also the story of a fire.' <br />The reader learns of Peter's demise from the first sentence of the prologue: 'After he dies, missing Peter for me is like swimming in the cold spot of the lake: everyone else laughing in the warm water under too-close summer sun. This is the question that no one asks me.' From his Korean grandfather, whose six older sisters were taken away by the Japanese Imperial Army to become 'comfort women,' Fee hears the story of the shape-shifting fox-demon, whose imagery will reappear to him often over the years. Fire is a recurring theme in 'Edinburgh': it brings immolation, purification, and transcendence.<br />The title, 'Edinburgh,' comes from the city in Scotland, and it's  also a painted fresco on the library ceiling of Fee's part-time employer, Edward Speck, an Oxford-educated historian. Speck is an elderly bachelor who employs young men as his assistants; his mentoring of them is respectful and non-predatory, unlike that of the married Big Eric. One day, Speck shows Fee an old letter from Edinburgh that was found in the spire of a cathedral; it had been written by a man who was ravaged by the Black Plague. Much later, Fee builds a stone chapel on the private school campus where he teaches ceramics and coaches the swim team. These images reinforce the strong sense of transcendence that pervades Fee's story. <br />The narrativeis sometimes choppy, sometimes lyrical, but always true, for Mr. Chee  has written this compelling story with sensitivity and grace. Fee was afraid to tell, and he didn't want anyone else to tell. He garnered information on pedophilia from library books and newspaper articles. At home, he says about his family, 'I can see, they think I am still here. They can't see that I have a secret as big as me. A secret that replaces me.' The secret comes out when another boy tells, and Big Eric is arrested, then incarcerated in prison, along with his wife. Their infant son, Edward, goes to foster care, and then to his grandparents' house to live. About halfway through 'Edinburgh,' the point of view shifts from Fee to Warden, as Edward now likes to be called as a teenager. Warden is a student at the same school where Fee works, and after Warden becomes infatuated with him, Fee confronts demons from the past. <br />'Edinburgh' is a coming-of-age story that shows how someone can survive childhood abuse and devastating loss to emerge strong and secure. Alexander Chee is a gifted new author who writes with imagination and courage.	2002-03-05
US	52976897	R10MHJTDM3T4CA	1583222723	668754144	Lydia Cassatt Reading the Morning Paper	Books	4	13	13	N	N	Lyrical and Contemplative	Lydia Cassatt (1837-82) was the older sister of the avant-garde American-born Impressionist painter Mary Cassatt (1844-1926). This lovely novella, 'Lydia Cassatt Reading the Morning Paper' by Harriet Scott Chessman, is set in Paris and its environs in the late 1870s to early 1880s and recreates a fictional portrayal of their life en famille and with close friends like Edgar Dégas, the French Impressionist. Because it was the time of the Impressionist exhibitions in Paris, there are mentions of other artists such as Gustave Caillebotte, Claude Monet, Pierre Auguste Renoir, and Berthe Morisot. Lydia often posed for Mary, which she found to be 'a form of enchantment.' Afflicted with Bright's disease, a fatal disease of the kidneys, Lydia endured much pain and weakness to sit still while her sister painted her. Through the use of internal monologue in a stream-of-consciousness Impressionistic style, Ms. Chessman allows the reader to experience the passing thoughts, memories, and reflections of Lydia. Lydia had remained an unmarried woman because her fiancé had been killed in the Civil War. Mary (called May) was also unmarried, through choice, because she did not wish to compromise her artistic career with marriage and motherhood. <br />Included in the pages of this novella are five beautiful color plates of paintings of Lydia by Mary Cassatt. Each of the five short chapters contains almost a meditation on each painting. Through the imaginative writing of Ms. Chessman, I learned more about the details of Cassatt's paintings, such as the possible meaning of a scarlet sash in 'Lydia Crocheting in the Garden at Marly' (1880); that there was a pair of Mary's burgundy leather gloves resting on the loom in 'Lydia Seated at a Tapestry Frame' (1880/81); and that the little girl in 'Woman and Child Driving' (1879) was Edgar Dégas's niece. Mary painted the cover portrait of Lydia, 'Woman Reading,' in 1878/79, and the novella gave me a glimpse of what Lydia might have been thinking and feeling while she posed for it. Lydia's preference was to read poetry by Tennyson rather than the Le Journal newspaper that she is holding in this portrait. Mary Cassatt's portraits of Lydia look unposed, so I was somewhat surprised to read about the sessions where the silently suffering Lydia had posed for hours. <br />This novella has inspired me to view Mary Cassatt's work with a fresh eye. Now looking at the vivacious décolletage portrait of 'Lydia in a Loge, Wearing a Pearl Necklace' (1879), which is not discussed in this book, I might imagine her enjoying a rare night out at the opera, possibly in a happier mood. Lydia was model and muse for Mary, and 'Lydia Cassatt Reading the Morning Paper' shows a contemplative reflection of the artist's gaze.	2002-02-26
US	52976897	RSXCNHTNTAJFR	0743212746	828831796	The Shell Collector: Stories	Books	5	9	13	N	N	Exquisite Storytelling	'The Shell Collector,' by Anthony Doerr, is a brilliant debut collection of short stories that is narrated from a naturalist's perspective. Here one finds lyrical taxonomies of flora and fauna in tales that take place all over the globe, including Kenya, Liberia, Tanzania, Ohio, Oregon, Montana, and Maine. These eight stories are peopled by unforgettable characters, such as a blind shell collector, a fossil hunter, a sideshow metal eater, fly fishermen, a repentant killer, and a hunter's wife who has supernatural powers. The strength of this collection is in its diversity. While the stories are unified by their characters' shared experience of the human condition and the landscapes of their natural settings, each of these well-polished gems is almost a novella in itself, as there is full exposition of the characters' motivations and surroundings, leading always to redemption and resolution. Most of the stories have a theme that is familiar to many fishermen: 'catch and release.' Mr. Doerr has followed the simple precepts of this art in the way that he handles his fiction: the stories have perfect timing and pacing; they are gently and expertly handled;  the hooking and unhooking of the narrative is swift and smooth; and their endings leave the reader revived and refreshed. If I had to describe Mr. Doerr's writing as similar to that of any other writers, I would say that it could be a cross between that of Ernest Hemingway, Albert Camus, and Stephen Jay Gould. Here is a quote from 'Mkondo' that I like:<br />'This was a life, this was how people chose to live? Somewhere inside she could feel winds dying, the gales of her youth stifled. She was learning that in her life everything-health, happiness, even love-was subject to the landscape; the weathers of the world were inseparable from the weathers of her soul. There were doldrums in her arteries, gray skies in her lungs. She heard a pulse inside her ear, a swishing cadence of blood and it was time, the steady markingof every moment as it sailed past, unrecoverable, lost forever. She mourned each one.'<br />This collection is recommended for lovers of short fiction and for those readers who want more than the 'slices of life' that short stories sometimes offer. I believe that Mr. Doerr is working on a novel-I can't wait to read more from this new author!	2002-02-24
US	52976897	RJAU7XUK056S2	0375507264	700141431	Number9Dream	Books	5	7	9	N	N	Dazzling Dream	Twenty-year-old Eiji Miyake travels to the hyperkinetic, frenetic city of Tokyo in this second novel by David Mitchell, the English expatriate author of 'Ghostwritten' who lives in Hiroshima, Japan. Eiji-san has come to Tokyo to discover the identity of his long-lost father, and it's this quest that propels the narrative through the twists and turns, bumps and bells of its pachinko machine-driven plot. Eiji-san can only control the speed at which he plays this game of life that often slips over into the surreal; otherwise he haphazardly bounces around Tokyo and its environs, bumping into random people who befriend him and betray him.<br />Mr. Mitchell readily admits that he has been much influenced by Haruki Murakami ('The Wind-Up Bird Chronicle,' 'Sputnik Sweetheart') and Don DeLillo ('Underworld,' 'White Noise,' 'The Body Artist') in writing 'number9dream.' Readers who are fond of these two authors and their works will love this book. The title, 'number9dream,' echoes the fascination that John Lennon had for the number nine; his 1974 song '#9 Dream' peaked at '9' on the charts. ('So long ago / Was it in a dream, was it just a dream? / I know, yes I know / Seemed so very real, it seemed so real to me.')<br />The story begins: 'It is a simple matter. I know your name, and you knew mine, once upon a time: Eiji Miyake. Yes, that Eiji Miyake. We are both busy people, Ms Kato, so why not cut the small talk? I am in Tokyo to find my father. You know his name and his address. And you are going to give me both. Right now.' Or something like that.' Yes, something like that, because it's not such a simple matter after all. Slipping into the surreal, the realm of sci fi and phantasmagoria, Eiji Miyake soon inhabits a parallel universe. He goes about his day-to-day affairs, yet the narrative glides onto a giant turntable where the record that's playing repeats 'number nine . . . number nine . . . number nine.' <br />Eiji's quest leads him into the underbelly of the Tokyo scene, where he encounters the Yakusa. Does his father have a connection to the Yakusa? The origin of the Yakusa - Japanese for 'they without worth to society' - can be traced back to 1612; they were masterless samurai, ronin, wandering robber bands, who, after the industrialization of Japan, have transformed themselves into Armani-suited gangsters, who some call the Japanese Mafia. The code of the Yakusa and the structure of their organization is complex, but David Mitchell navigates their terrain with consummate skill. <br />After Eiji-san has met up with the Yakusa, he is then warned that he 'must persuade himself that tonight was another man's nightmare into which you accidentally strayed.' Yet the reality of Eiji Miyake's life is haunted and tainted by nightmares and dreams as he time-travels from his cozy capsule in Tokyo to his grandmother's home on the foggy island of Yakushima. In these flashbacks, he confronts ghosts and thunder gods while he seeks clues to the mystery-shrouded death of his twin sister, Anju. As Leatherjacket had told him earlier, 'nightmares are our wilder ancestors returning to reclaim land. Land tamed and grazed, by our softer, fatter, modern, waking selves.'<br />Through an unusual encounter in the Amadeus Tea Room with an elderly gentleman who may be Eiji-san's grandfather, he comes into the possession of a diary that was written by a kaiten pilot, who, while part of the Japanese Imperial Navy, was stationed off the coast of an island in the Ryuku chain during World War II. The journal entries, as they are read by Miyake in his capsule, are enthralling. Woven throughout other sections in the novel are a fabulist's tale, with oddball characters named Goatwriter and Mrs Combs, and a love story with Ai Imajo, a talented pianist. Unlike the narrative of 'Ghostwritten,' a novel of nine interlinked short-storied chapters plus one, the well-knit storyline of 'number9dream' doesn't unravel or drop any stitches as it goes along.  <br />Some may saythat 'number9dream' is no more than a Manga comic strip with cartoon characters and gratuitous violence, but they are missing the allusions and subtleties and humor that lightly grace the pages of this postmodern odyssey. 'number9dream' is a nonlinear novel in nine parts, a multilayered narrative that explores the nature of dreams and reality. Shortlisted for the Booker Prize in 2001, this novel is so extraordinary that you'll want to read it again and again and again.	2002-01-18
US	52976897	R3PHELNWU1IDOL	0312252072	8552804	Complicated Women: Sex and Power in Pre-Code Hollywood	Books	5	6	8	N	N	A Piercing Look at Pre-Codes	\\"The Code came in to prevent women from having fun. It was designed to put the genie back in the bottle-and the wife back in the kitchen,\\" says Mick LaSalle, film critic for the San Francisco Chronicle and professor of film studies at University of California at Berkeley, in his excellent book of film criticism, \\"Complicated Women: Power and Sex in Pre-Code Hollywood.\\" Before reading this page-turner, I had assumed that \\"women's pictures\\" came into existence during the `40s, featuring the femmes fatales of films noirs. Now I know that not to be the case because actors of the Pre-Code era, such as Greta Garbo, Norma Shearer, Jean Harlow, Constance Bennett, Ruth Chatterton, and Ann Harding, were modern and daring women who made some great films like \\"Queen Christina,\\" \\"The Divorcee,\\" \\"Red Dust,\\" \\"The Easiest Way,\\" \\"Madame X,\\" and \\"The Animal Kingdom.\\"<br />\\"The best era for women's pictures,\\" according to Mr. LaSalle, \\"was the pre-Code era, the five years between the point that talkies became widely accepted in 1929 through July 1934, when the dread and draconian Production Code became the law of Hollywoodland.\\" Moreover, in pre-1940 American films, actors were showcased through innovative close-ups, and directors took second seats to film stars and producers. In those days, \\"image-the public's idea of personality-was everything.\\" Greta Garbo and Norma Shearer were two stars whose images were packaged and polished by the production studios. Before their time, in the silent era and in the first talkies, women were cast into two film roles: vamp and ingénue. \\"Garbo, by nature aloof and mysterious, was forced to play the vamp, a role she hated. Shearer, who radiated integrity, was forced to play the innocent ingénue, which frustrated her. So they rebelled.\\"<br />Fans of Garbo and Shearer will love Mr. LaSalle's book. He uses his insider's knowledge to contrast their respective vamp-turned-martyr and ingénue-turned-modern-woman roles. Now I can re-view these favorite films, from the time when there was no censorship, with this book as companion and guide to understanding and appreciating the challenges that were faced by these \\"complicated women.\\"	2001-09-27
US	52976897	R7Y115ZT1WK2L	0877455570	986691121	Hints of His Mortality	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Fading into the Light of Common Day	For anyone who may wonder what goes on in minds of `men who lead lives of quiet desperation,' author David Borofka offers insights in his award-winning, finely wrought short story collection, `The Hints of His Mortality.' Most of the stories draw the reader in by using a similar narrative device: men speaking of their lives, describing other people as if their identities are defined by their roles in men's lives--`my wife,' `Grimshaw's wife,' `Parker's sister-in-law,' `Cunningham's father,' `Scot's girlfriend,' `his first wife.' Sometimes the protagonist is introduced by his last name only: `The sun was setting when Anderson turned back toward the highway . . . '; `Years later Ferguson would remember. . . .' (James Joyce used this technique in `Eveline' in `Dubliners': `She sat at the window watching the evening invade the avenue.') This style sets the tone for the storytelling; it compels a reader's need to know who is this person.<br />Thus, who might the `His' be in `Hints of His Mortality'? While all of the stories contain clues, the answer is found, first, in prefatory lines quoted from William Wordsworth's `Ode, Intimations of Immortality from Recollection of Early Childhood'; second, it's revealed in the eponymous final story of this thematically interrelated collection: `Years later Ferguson would remember-as the disabled 727 in which he was trapped as a passenger sank into the twilight of morning clouds-how his first wife had disappeared or died (he never knew which) in the fog of the Central Valley of California'; third, it's limned in `Epilogue,' which is a final story about two brothers and a fateful encounter. Whose mortality? It's Ferguson's and Anderson's and that of the other men in these stories. As they reflect on their lives, and what they have made of them, the reader becomes a privileged party to what is going on their minds: their anxieties, their regrets, their recriminations, and their rationalizations.<br />Mr. Borofka is a fine writer. Hiswriting is not always easy to read because it answers the perennial question that has been put to silent men: what are you thinking? `Life is indeed a garden of pain, that men and women are born for trouble and heartache, and that lyricism of experience is nothing but a chimera of our most fraudulent desires?'	2001-09-07
US	52976897	R30JC4E6BJCVRD	0375704027	339664983	Norwegian Wood	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Enchanting	\\" `Norwegian Wood' is still the one Murakami book that `everyone' in Japan has read,\\" says Jay Rubin in his Translator's Note of this simple, straightforward, semi-autobiographical story. Toru Watanabe as narrator of this 1960s period piece reminds me of Nick Carraway in Fitzgerald's \\"Gatsby\\"; Watanabe seems one step removed from the action even while he is part of it, and his commentary shapes a critique of contemporary Japanese society. So \\"Norwegian Wood\\" is a love story set against a larger theme of questioning the Establishment. Another theme is the characters' insouciance about lovemaking. Letterwriting and love letters are part of Murakami's (Watanabe's) narrative strategy, which lend this novel a heightened sense of intimacy. Near the end, Watanabe says, \\"Letters are just pieces of paper . . . Burn them, and what stays in your heart will stay; keep them and what vanishes will vanish.\\" Haruki Murakami's \\"Norwegian Wood\\" stays in the heart; it is his enchanting letter from the `60s, with love.	2001-06-21
US	52976897	R3NOYLSOY8TB4R	0679450041	383312801	The Amazing Adventures of Kavalier & Clay: A Novel	Books	5	13	19	N	N	A Love Story Writ Large	Following in the tradition of many renowned novelists of the twentieth century, Michael Chabon sets his love story, &quot;The Amazing Adventures of Kavalier &amp; Clay,&quot; in a large city. Mr. Chabon  contributes much here to the urban legend that is New York City. A troika of major characters, Joe Kavalier, Rosa Saks, and Sammy Clay, joins with a cast of minor characters so believable that they seem like neighbors. The comic book characters drawn by these three come to life as well.<br />Mr. Chabon's prose is passionate and, yes, purple in places, a narrative device used to lift the lyricism off the page. Sometimes I looked up unfamiliar words; sometimes I didn't. I found Leo Rosten's &quot;The Joys of Yiddish&quot; useful for looking up Golem of Prague and some Yiddish words. I enjoyed all the references to Harry Houdini; for the reader who wants to know more about him, I highly recommend &quot;Houdini!!!&quot; by Kenneth Silverman. Mr. Chabon provides a clue to his extensive research in his Author's Note and gives excellent suggestions for reading more about New York City during the 1930s to 1950s; Prague during the 1930s to 1940s; magic, magicians, and escape artists; the Antarctic; the Kabbalah; radio and comic books; and Levittown. &quot;Kavalier &amp; Clay&quot; is a tender love story writ large that caresses some controversial themes with sensitivity, humor, and grace.	2001-06-12
US	52976897	RGHA63SDXMUFY	0764103458	33520319	Dictionary of French Slang and Colloquial Expressions	Books	4	12	13	N	N	Dictionnaire moyen de l'argot	Unless one reads at least intermediate-level French, this pocket-sized _Dictionary of French Slang and Colloquial Expressions_ will prove useful only as a reference book, not as a guidebook for the traveler. It is a one-way dictionary in French-English, and many of the French entries are not defined but are cross-referenced to another entry. Thus, a few thousand French slang words and colloquialisms are represented but not all are defined. (For example, &quot;crêpe.&quot; See &quot;rétourner...crêpe.&quot;) As well, some of these French words are in common usage, and I would not consider them to be &quot;true&quot; slang or colloquial expressions because they can be found in _Larousse de Poche_ or _Larousse Dictionnaire Compact_. (For example, &quot;cravate,&quot; &quot;conduite,&quot; &quot;pareil.&quot;)<br />The preface to this small dictionary is quite excellent. One will find there explanations for &quot;javanais,&quot; &quot;largonji,&quot; &quot;louchébem,&quot; &quot;mézigue,&quot; and &quot;verlan.&quot; Thus, I recommend this book for as a good reference for online chatting because one will encounter French people who are logging on from Lyon and Marseille as well as Paris.   <br />For travel to France, I would recommend, at minimum: Rick Steves, Berlitz, or Lonely Planet phrasebooks; a Larousse pocket dictionary; Michelin the Red Guide France 2001; and a book of idiomatic usage and slang, such as &quot;Merde!,&quot; &quot;Street French Slang Dictionary &amp; Thesaurus,&quot; or &quot;Street French 3.&quot;<br />Recommended for collectors of slang and humor dictionaries!	2001-04-12
US	52976897	R3Y9V6JP06US4	0887393691	793549901	What Is Poetry?	Books	5	3	3	N	N	&quot;Poetry is what exists between the lines.&quot;	&quot;Be a poet, not a huckster. Don't cater, don't pander, especially not to possible audiences, readers, editors or publishers,&quot; is one of the recent challenges that Beat poet Lawrence Ferlinghetti offered to budding poets from thirty San Francisco high schools. He knows. He's been writing poetry since his own school days in the late 1920s. <br />_What is Poetry?_  is a golden-covered pocketbook of prose-poetry, with sixty-four pages of one to four lines of free verse on each page. The opening Note says that &quot;[a] very early prose version of this text was transcribed from a KPFA (FM) broadcast recorded by Mr. Ferlinghetti in the late 1950s under the title, _The Street's Kiss_ .&quot; After much revising and expansion, including publication in his &quot;Poetry As News&quot; column in the San Francisco Chronicle Book Review, Mr. Ferlinghetti has shared his insights into this mystery of what is poetry and of what poetry shoud be.<br />Something one might find on the cutting-room floor is this preface that Mr. Ferlinghetti wrote in his column on January 16, 2000: &quot; 'What is Poetry?' There are no doubt as many definitions of poetry as there are poems. Perhaps more, since there are more poetry professors and critics than there are poets. Perhaps there's a need in the new century for some new definitions. Or perhaps the golden oldies will hold up better than any. Risking the derision of postmodern eggheads, I'll put some of my old ones and some of my new ones to the test of the twenty-first century: Poetry is news from the frontiers of consciousness.&quot; <br />One might open this small book to any one of its pages and find &quot;what exists between the lines.&quot; For here is a pleasure for the mind and a tasty treat for the senses.	2001-04-07
US	52976897	R1X5ZXK037UGBF	0415917751	44850343	Latin for the Illiterati: Exorcizing the Ghosts of a Dead Language	Books	4	12	12	N	N	Cui Bono?	\\"Latin forms an integral part of our daily lives,\\" says Dr. Jon R. Stone, \\"and its use is foundational to our major branches of knowledge from law and medicine to literature and commerce.\\" _Latin for the Illiterati: Exorcizing the Ghosts of a Dead Language_ is a personal reading list of terms that the author encountered in his days as a graduate student. As such, it is a good reference book to keep on hand for looking up basic Latin words or Latinate expressions. Compared to Dr. Eugene Ehrlich's _Amo, Amas, Amat and More_ and _Veni, Vidi, Vici_, this book is not as humorous. Further, Dr. Stone has taken the excellent  _Cassell's Latin-English/English-Latin Dictionary_ as a guide and added his own parenthetical translations.     _Latin for the Illiterati_ is like a phrase book, except it is for a \\"dead\\" language. If one wants to learn Latin, then _Wheelock's Latin_ is the best. The    essential reference book for the Latin language is the _Oxford Latin Dictionary_ [OLD]. However, Dr. Stone's handbook is quite comprehensive: 6,000 entries, with 300 abbreviations; geographical place names, colors, calendar months and days, and Roman numerals (written out); an English-Latin index, (which is not as useful as the Latin-English section); and a quite good guide to Latin pronunciation. (It really is \\"weenie,\\" \\"weedie,\\" weekie.\\")     The Latin-English section has two parts, with listings in alphabetical order: \\"common words and expressions\\" and \\"common phrases and sayings.\\" I recommend this book for people who read books on philosophy or religion; for crossword puzzle fanatics; and for those whose work or worship includes the use of Latin.	2001-04-06
US	52976897	R1PVNRANERYN7R	0520215389	615165860	The BFI Companion to Crime	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Sociohistorical Survey of &quot;Crime in Film&quot; Genre	&quot;There have always been crime stories,&quot; says Richard Attenborough, in his foreward to &quot;The BFI Companion to Crime.&quot; Cinematic representations of crime and criminals are a worldwide phenomenon still in force after one hundred years. What editor Phil Hardy has done in his excellent reference book is to create an encyclopedic survey of the crime film genre from its &quot;origins at a certain period in Europe in the late nineteenth century which saw the formation of an organised police force and the professionalisation of both the forces of law and the criminal . . . .[that] gave rise to a literature, of which Sir Arthur Conan Doyle is the first great exponent, in which the process of investigation is paramount . . . .&quot; Such an investigation, or &quot;police procedural,&quot; did not concern itself solely with crime-solving: an apprehension of the criminal, or &quot;alleged perp,&quot; occurred. This &quot;apprehension&quot; involved a physical detention for questioning, as a means of &quot;apprehending&quot; the psychological and social dimensions of crime and criminal. In other words, the evolution of the crime film genre brought about an exploration of minds and motivations of criminals that would no longer be hidden in literary detail.  <br />&quot;What then arose both in Europe and America during the 1920s,&quot; according to Mr Hardy, &quot;were a series of representations of daring criminals (Fantômas, Dr Mabuse) and striking and highly popular recreations of the criminal underworld.&quot; The high energy of the Roaring Twenties during Prohibition, with its G-Men enforcers, produced the gangster film, a popular genre which initiated a &quot;ripped from the headlines&quot; approach to filmmaking that still persists today. A listing of these early gangster films would include: &quot;Underworld&quot; (1927), &quot;Little Caesar&quot; (1930), &quot;The Public Enemy&quot; (1931), and &quot;Scarface&quot; (1932). As the Depression of the 1930swore on, people cheered gangsters in films and made them their folk heroes. After federal agent Melvin Purvis gunned down John Dillinger in 1934, the gangster film shifted into a subgenre; now cops and criminals would have double billing, and television entered the scene. (Fast forward to &quot;The Untouchables,&quot; &quot;The Godfather Trilogy,&quot; &quot;Mean Streets,&quot; &quot;Goodfellas,&quot; and &quot;The Sopranos,&quot; to name but a few examples.)<br />This &quot;Companion&quot; artfully deconstructs the complex genre (or subgenre) of film noir that emerged in the early 1940s. These films noirs (and neo-noirs) have generated a cottage industry of critical and popular texts. While I do not concur with the editor's thesis of &quot;the lethargy that was film noir,&quot; I believe he presents quite valuable insights to the genre. <br />Several sociohistorical factors came into play at the beginning of the 1940s: America's involvement in World War II; the resurgence of the American economy concomitant with Rosie-the-Riveter's replacement of men in the workplace; and the shifting roles of women and men (&quot;Mildred Pierce&quot;). Soon, contrasting and overlapping images of overworld and underworld intruded into film: &quot;police were expected to be corrupt and the man running the nightclub was expected to be a criminal&quot; (&quot;The Big Sleep&quot; and &quot;Murder My Sweet&quot;). With the appearance of &quot; 'femmes fatales,' preying on confused males&quot; in these films, Hardy sees &quot;languidity&quot; and &quot;lack of masculine energy&quot; in this subgenre: &quot;. . . the way a (wo)man held a cigarette was as important as the way (s)he held a gun.&quot;<br />Films of the 1930s and 1940s also illustrate the influences of Freudian psychology and psychoanalysis, and of German Expressionist artists and filmmakers. &quot;John Huston's 'The Maltese Falcon' (1941), adapted from Dashiell Hammett's novel and one of the earliest 'films noirs,' is a convenient starting-point from which to examine changes in the narrative strategies of the crime film . . . .&quot; The 1950s highlighted &quot;the importance of the crime writer to the crime film.&quot; Preceded by a few pages of color photos from contemporary crime cinema, the extensive glossary includes entries of many of these writers (e.g., James M. Cain, Raymond Chandler, and Elmore Leonard). <br />&quot;The BFI Companion to Crime&quot; is a fascinating and up-to-date reference for the &quot;crime film&quot; genre. After spending time with Attenborough's gossipy foreward and Hardy's informative, opinionated, and rambling introduction, one might even read the rest from cover-to-cover. One drawback is the lack of an index and appendixes: no filmography or bibliography. However, the book is cross-referenced in bold type and displays several b &amp; w photos per page. <br />While there are many subgenres of the crime film genre, not all films with crimes are considered here, such as horror films and Westerns because they are considered by most film viewers, scholars, and critics to be separate genres. Film buffs may argue endlessly on what constitutes a genre or subgenre in film, with collateral agreements and disagreements as to the catergorisation of which film belongs in what genre or subgenre. Thus, I consider this book to be an invaluable reference for the crime film buff.	2001-04-02
US	52976897	R1EHCJTRMY4J8N	0471168068	627977765	Street French Slang Dictionary & Thesaurus	Books	5	39	40	N	N	Excellent Reference for Nonstandard French	&quot;Street French Slang Dictionary &amp; Thesaurus&quot; is a superb source for nonstandard terms and expressions that one might encounter in films, television and radio shows, news broadcasts, books, newspapers, magazines, business, and everyday conversations in France and French-speaking countries. Divided into five parts, this reference book includes most of the colorful and popular expressions that one will rarely learn through formal study of French.<br />The &quot;Street French Dictionary&quot; (Part 1) includes almost 200 pages of  2,000 popular French terms, including slang, idioms, colloquialisms, vulgarities, proverbs, special notes, synonyms, antonyms, variations, plus an array of hilarious illustrations. Usage examples are given so the reader can know whether an expression is considered to be &quot;very mild,&quot; &quot;mild&quot; or &quot;strong.&quot; Each entry contains at least one &quot;example,&quot; &quot;translation,&quot; and &quot;as spoken&quot; citation. Some etymological information is given in &quot;Notes,&quot; particularly where there might be some confusion over usage. As an example, the word &quot;baiser&quot; can have quite different meanings, depending on whether it is used as a noun or as a verb.<br />&quot;Popular French Gestures&quot; (Part 2) is very humorous. This section shows that the French are equal to the Italians in the use of nonverbal expressions. &quot;Beats me!&quot; deconstructs the infamous Gallic shrug which is accompanied by the quick &quot;ppp&quot; sound. <br />&quot;English Words Used in French&quot; (Part 3) is a short section of English words that are pronounced with a French accent, e.g., &quot;bestseller&quot; (pronounced: &quot;bestselleur) and &quot;gangster&quot; (pronounced: &quot;ganguestaire&quot;). I think this section should be longer because it can be a temptation to use an English word with a French accent when one is not certain of the equivalent French word. <br />&quot;The Street French Thesaurus&quot; (Part 4) contains general slang synonyms and expressions in alphabetical order. English expressions, such as &quot;How's it going?,&quot; are found in boldface type, followed by the French equivalents, such as &quot;Ça va?.&quot; There are 54 synonyms for &quot;partir&quot; (&quot;to leave&quot;), 59 synonyms for &quot;ivre&quot; (&quot;drunk&quot;), 95 synonyms for &quot;idiot&quot; (&quot;idiot&quot;), and 41 synonyms for &quot;manger&quot; (&quot;to eat&quot;).<br />Marked by a &quot;Danger&quot; sign, &quot;The Street French Thesaurus&quot; (Part 5) presents the raciest references of the book: expletives, obscenities, vulgarities, insults, bodily functions and sounds, sexual slang, and offensive language. As author David Burke maintains, &quot;Slang must be used with discretion&quot; . . . .[but] [t]ry using some in your conversations for extra color!&quot;	2001-03-30
US	52976897	R1W7OUFYJB8DCR	0812090241	616906606	2001 French and English Idioms (2001 Idioms Series)	Books	4	27	27	N	N	French and English Idioms: Useful Reference for Writers	When one writes in French or English, one usually tries to match the usage to the medium (to paraphrase the late Marshall McLuhan). Thus, one writes a formal essay differently than one would write an informal memo or an e-mail. &quot;Idiom&quot; books, such as &quot;2001 French and English Idioms: 2001 Idiotismes Français et Anglais&quot; 2nd ed., can help when one is writing not in one's native tongue. Even so, despite such dictionaries or the mass appeal of online language translation applications, one hesitates to venture into idiomatic usage for fear of embarrassment. When speaking in a foreign tongue, &quot;argot&quot; seems to come easier, and any mistakes in usage are often amusing, charming, and forgettable. In speaking French, for example, one finds many colorful and up-to-date expressions in &quot;Merde!&quot; and &quot;Merde Encore!&quot; by Geneviève, or in the &quot;Street French&quot; series. However, most of the idiomatic expressions found in these books would not be appropriate for written communications, other than for online chatting.<br />Divided into two almost equal parts, &quot;French-English&quot; and &quot;English-French,&quot; this thick book is a useful guide for both French and English-speaking writers. Each part contains a foreword, a reviser's note, a preface, an alphabetical listing of the respective idioms, and an index. What is missing from this book, according to the authors, are those expressions which are literally the same in both languages. Thus so, one will not find the following expression: &quot;Don't put all your eggs in the same basket./ Il ne faut pas mettre tous ses oeufs dans le même panier.&quot; <br />At first, the alphaphetical listing of idioms may seem difficult to search. Several times, I have not found a word or phrase that I have needed to translate. However, I do like the illustrative sentences that are part of each entry. Also, the book is truly bilingual. &quot;2001 Idiotismes&quot; is a good reference for writers of French and English who want a book that bridges the gap between a desk size dictionary and a pocket size dictionary that is academic in tone, without slang or vulgarity. <br />Recommended for high school and college students, general readers, and American travelers in France and French-speaking countries.	2001-03-30
US	52976897	RSZQD69A8NTMK	0375727345	498826779	House of Sand and Fog (Oprah's Book Club)  (Vintage Contemporaries)	Books	4	4	6	N	N	Brilliant Characterization	House of Sand and Fog,&quot; by Andre Dubus III (author of &quot;The Cagekeeper and Other Stories&quot; and &quot;Bluesman&quot;), is a compelling novel. Divided into two parts, &quot;House&quot; is a complex, disturbing, and thought-provoking tragedy. <br />Dubus's brilliance at characterization shines through this bleak and believable story. He climbs inside his characters' heads to give readers a chance to feel what it is like to be a recovering addict (Kathy Nicolo); what it is like to be first and second generation immigrants in pursuit of the &quot;American Dream&quot; (the Behrani family); and what it is like to be an ordinary man (Lester Burdon). <br />&quot;House&quot; is flawed; it is not perfectly written or edited. Those who are familiar with the Northern California setting of this dark tale will note incongruities of detail. But one can forgive these imperfections because of the powerful emotions that Dubus can generate in his readers through his storytelling. &quot;House&quot; is not a tragedy of Greek proportion; there is no chorus of readers which will respond in uniformity to protagonists' or antagonists' moral claims. Rather, &quot;House&quot; reminds one of a kafkaesque travesty: a minor clerical error which compounds itself into misfortune, mayhem, and murderous revenge. <br />Dubus employs an experimental style of narration, with his deliberate shifting of points of view. This narrative device manipulates the reader's response to the characters, thereby creating in the reader's mind a frustration of not being able to solve the moral dilemma. (Tim O'Brien uses a similar technique in his short novel, &quot;In the Lake of the Woods.&quot;) <br />I especially recommend this book to readers who like to weigh and measure their responses; to writers of fiction who wish to learn about characterization; and to book discussion groups. Further, I recommend that you explore the writings of this writer's father, the late Andre Dubus, especially &quot;Meditations from a Movable Chair&quot; and &quot;Dancing After Hours.&quot;	2001-03-29
US	52976897	R2RRK3VXE0VLFV	2035320216	841405301	Le Larousse De Poche 2001 Edition Mise a Jour	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Best &quot;All-French&quot; Pocket Dictionary	Have you reached the point in your formal study of the French language where you find yourself thinking and dreaming in French? Do you read, write, and speak French with a need to look up words in a &quot;pocket&quot; dictionary? If so, then  _le Larousse de Poche 2001: édition mise à jour, dictionnaire de la langue française et de la culture française_ is the best &quot;all-French&quot; pocket dictionary you will find. Larousse has long set the standard for French dictionaries, hardcover and paperback. Le Larousse de Poche 2001 2nd. ed. (1998 1st ed.) offers intermediate-to-advanced French students, and others, the ability to look up French words when reading, writing, or speaking French, without having to translate back and forth from their native tongues. <br />In almost one thousand pages of quite legible type, the table of contents (sommaire) includes: Abbreviations (Abréviations); French pronunciation (Pronunciation du français); Guide (Mode d'emploi); Dictionary of nouns, (Dictionnaire des noms communs), including usage notes (emplois); Proverbs (Proverbes); Dictionary of Proper Nouns (Dictionnaire des noms propres); Appendixes: Grammar--plurals and participles (Annexes grammaticales--le pluriel des mots simples et de l'accord du participe); Conjugations of auxiliary (avoir et  être), regular, and irregular verbs, in groupings (Conjugaisons); and a final section on Correspondence: the most frequent rules of &quot;polite&quot; address; models of eight types of letters, from business to condolences; and proper usage for a &quot;calling card&quot; (Correspondance: les formules de politesse; huit modélès de correspondance; et rédaction sur carte de visite pour divers événements).<br />Overall, this dictionary offers excellent &quot;French-French&quot; definitions and usage notes, in a handy size for pocketbooks, briefcases, and backpacks, as well as for home, office, and travel use. Le meilleur!	2001-03-08
US	52976897	R1U70BPCQGAV19	0486264432	753484395	French Stories / Contes Français (A Dual-Language Book) (English and French Edition)	Books	5	214	245	N	N	This Book Helped Me Pass the Subject A Exam!	Each first-year student at the University of California must fulfill the Subject A Requirement. This requirement has evolved since its inception at UC in 1897-98: now many high school students may fulfill it through College Board Sat-II Writing test scores or Advanced Placement (AP) Examination in English scores. However, if you happen to be one of 16,000 students each year who takes the Subject A Exam on the morning of the second Saturday in May, you will be given a prose passage of some 700-1000 words to read and analyze. Then you will be expected to &quot;write an essay responding on a single topic based on the passage's content. The topic is one of two general kinds: one focusing almost exclusively on the reading passage itself, and the other encouraging students to draw upon their knowledge and personal experience.&quot; So what does  _French Stories/Contes Français_ have to do with passing this dreaded exam? <br />That May morning, as I squirmed in my seat in labyrinthine Dwinelle Hall, I settled on this topic: &quot;The Use of Irony in a Short Story.&quot; Somehow, I recalled the final story from _French Stories/Contes Français_: &quot;L'Hôte,&quot; by Albert Camus (1913-1960). &quot;L'Hôte&quot; (The Guest) is one of six stories from his _L'Exil et le Royaume_ (1957--the same year he was awarded the Nobel Prize for Literature). Editor Wallace Fowlie gives this brief synopsis: &quot;The scene of the story is set on a high plateau of Algeria. An Arab has killed a man in a family quarrel, and he is brought to the schoolteacher who is to take him to prison in the next town. The story is constructed around a dramatic irony which forms the conclusion.&quot; Without giving anything away, allow me to tell you, if you do not already know, that &quot;l'hôte&quot; has two meanings in French: &quot;host&quot; and &quot;guest.&quot; French is that kind of language: nuance and double-entendre abound. <br />After one year of formal French instruction, _French Stories/Contes Français: A Dual Language Book_ became my constant companion. I loved how I could read these ten short stories in French while I covered up the English translations on facing pages. If I stumbled over an unfamiliar word, I could peek, or I could look it up in the small vocabulary section at the end of the book. Since then, I have re-read this &quot;French Reader&quot; many times.<br />_Contes_ displays no overarching unity, for it is but a sampling of some of the best short stories from 200 years of French Literature. In chronological order, here is the listing of the stories and their authors: &quot;Micromégas&quot; (Micromegas) by Voltaire (1694-1778), &quot;a philosophical tale written in 1752 . . . obviously imitating Swift's 'Gulliver's Travel's' &quot;; &quot;La Messe de l'Athée&quot; (The Atheist's Mass) by Honoré de Balzac (1799-1850), illustrates the passion of &quot;one of the most prolific writers in French literature, and one who has created the largest number of characters.&quot; <br />Next is &quot;La Légende de Saint Julien l'Hospitalier&quot; (The Legend of St. Julian the Hospitaler) by Gustave Flaubert (1821-1880). This story, one of a volume of three stories (Trois Contes), was written by Flaubert in 1877, twenty years after _Madame Bovary_. &quot;La Légende&quot; differs from this earlier masterpiece because &quot;[i]t is far from being a realistic study of contemporary life . . . .[but rather] it is the attempt to reconstruct medieval customs and characters.&quot; <br />A &quot;dark&quot; favorite of mine, poet Charles Baudelaire (1821-1867) follows with &quot;Le Spleen de Paris (trois poèmes en prose)&quot; (The Spleen of Paris (Three Poems in Prose)), first published posthumously in 1869. These three works, &quot;Le Vieux Saltimbanque&quot; (The Old Clown), &quot;Le Joujou du Pauvre&quot; (The Poor Boy's Toy), &quot;La Corde (A Édouard Manet)&quot; (The Rope (To Edouard Manet)) introduced the new genre, or &quot;literary form,&quot; of the prose-poem in France. The editor, Professor Wallace Fowlie of Duke University, stated that these prose-poems were &quot;apologues or fables representing a moral truth.&quot;<br />Other stories are &quot;Meneut&quot; (Minuet) by Guy de Maupassant (1850-1893); &quot;Mort de Judas&quot; (Death of Judas) by Paul Claudel (1868-1955); &quot;Le Retour de l'Enfant Prodigue&quot; (The Return of the Prodigal Son) by André Gide (1869-1951); &quot;Grand-Lebrun&quot; (Grand-Lebrun) by François Mauriac (1885-1970); and &quot;Le Passe-Muraille&quot; (The Passer-Through-Walls) by Marcel Aymé (1902-1967). &quot;L'Hôte&quot; ends the collection.<br />Fowlie's introductions to each story are succinct summations of each author's philosophy and purpose. He offers a few pages of endnotes and a &quot;questionnaire en français&quot; for each text. _French Stories/Contes Français_ is a book to be savored and studied. I recommend it to beginning students of the French language as well as to those who wish to refresh their memory of French literature.	2001-03-04
US	52976897	R2JKQ5UHUJCDNW	0199617279	965924572	Oxford English Dictionary on CD-ROM, Macintosh version 1.0d (CD ROM Mac)	Books	5	14	14	N	N	Have the _OED2_  on Your Mac!	It's three o'clock in the morning, and you need to know the meaning of that obscure English word now! It's not in any of your dictionaries, including _Webster's Third New International Dictionary_. The libraries are closed. If you are lucky, you can pop the _OED2_ CD into your Macintosh CD/DVD-ROM drive, and you have the Dictionary entry on your screen in a flash. This entry includes the headword,  (&quot;[t]he word whose spelling, pronunciation, and meaning are the subject of the entry&quot;). In the print version of the Dictionary, this headword is the only way you can search for an entry; in the _OED2 on CD-ROM for the Apple Macintosh®_, it is but one of several ways to access the data in the text. <br />Also included in the entry are: pronunciation; the part of speech; any variant forms; etymology; definitions, including subsidiary headwords and phrases; subordinate headwords; phrases; and quotations, which include the headword in use and contain a citation, which generally gives further details. All of these included items are separately searchable, too.<br />The _OED2 on CD-ROM for Apple Macintosh®_ [ISBN: 0199617279] comes packaged in a plastic vinyl box, which includes the CD in its plastic jewel case; a floppy disk, which contains Monotype TrueType fonts that need to be installed in the System folder on your hard disk; a software license and mail-in user registration card; and a 109-page spiral-bound manual.<br />The manual is excellent. Its introduction gives a brief overview and history of the _OED_, and it reminds the user that &quot;the _OED_  is a descriptive dictionary, not a prescriptive one. It does not attempt to set a standard of correct English: it records impartially the uses of writers from every part of the English-speaking world and at every level of the social or literary scale.&quot; <br />Here is the Table of Contents: 1. Introduction (system requirements; installation; getting started; error messages); 2. About the _Oxford English Dictionary_;  3. Application overview (SEARCH menu; carrying out a search; wildcards; proximity searches; FILE  menu; EDIT menu; DISPLAY menu; SETTINGS menu; HELP menu; WINDOW menu); 4. Searching (word look-up; text searches; etymology searches; definition searches; quotation searches, including author searches); 5. The query language (the query statement--search field, type, item, results file; constructing complex queries--Boolean operators; combining queries); 6. Troubleshooting: performance tips and warnings; 7. Glossary; Appendix: &quot;Character sets&quot; (3 main groups: Group 1--all the standard Roman characters; accented European characters; Old and Middle English characters; special characters (symbols); keyboard output  mnemonics are given for all; Group 2--the Greek alphabet and International Phonetic Alphabet (IPA); Group 3--Other characters and symbols (astronomical, mathematical, musical, palæographic, philological &amp; phonetic (e.g., Arabic, Cyrillic, Early Greek, Hebrew, etc.), prosodic, punctuation mark, scientific, and typographical; Index.<br />Here are the System Requirements, as stated in the Manual:<br />*Macintosh® computer with Motorola 68030 processor *Apple® System 6.07 or higher *2 Mb RAM (in addition to the RAM required by the system and any other applications that are open).  [You may need to install more RAM in your computer, depending on what other applications (e.g., Microsoft Word, PowerPoint, Excel) you many want to use concurrently with this application.] *1 Mb free hard-disk space *Apple® CD drive or full compatible *Apple® CD-ROM software extension, version 4.0 or higher (to allow ISO 9660 file access) *TrueType font extension software  *4 Mb RAM resident on printer for Quality Printing. [This option &quot;outputs text the same way as it is displayed on screen.&quot;]<br />Overall, I have found the _OED2 on Compact Disc for Apple Macintosh®_ to be indispensable for work and study. I find the small manual to be quite handyfor using the keyboard mnemonics. As a bonus, all the language and symbol character sets remain installed on your hard drive and are available for other uses when the CD is not in &quot;residence.&quot; On the downside, you do need to have the CD in your CD/DVD-ROM drive to access the Dictionary. However, I have found the additional searching capabilities of the CD-ROM version (over the print version) to more than compensate for this drawback. If you use a PowerBook, the CD-ROM version is wonderful for use on-the-road, at workshops and conferences, or when holing up in a hideaway to finish that work-in-progress!<br />Please excuse all the detail if you have found it tedious. I have made the assumption that you would be familiar with this Dictionary, so I have focused on the more technical aspects of this CD-ROM version in case you have need of this information before ordering it. [For the _OED2_ on CD-ROM (Windows), see ISBN: 0195215737]<br />Highly recommended!	2001-02-18
US	52976897	R1R4V6Y32N37X3	0380607727	978004504	Oxford American Dictionary	Books	5	9	10	N	N	The Best Paperback American English Dictionary!	The _Oxford American Dictionary_ , edited by Dr. Eugene Ehrlich, et al., is the best paperback American English dictionary. Even though the reissue edition of this dictionary is almost twenty years old, I consider it to be the best because it has excellent usage notes sprinkled among the usual definitions of words. Here is an entry with a note on usage: &quot;hope*ful*ly (hohp'-ful-lee) 'adv.' 1. in a hopeful way. 2. it is to be hoped, 'hopefully, we shall be there by one o'clock.' &gt; Many people regard the second use as unacceptable.&quot;<br />According to the editors, this dictionary &quot;contains words and phrases likely to be met in reading and everyday life, including a number of slang, informal, and technical words and phrases.&quot; Many proper nouns, common foreign words, and abbreviations are defined, too. I suggest its purchase to university students for classroom use because this dictionary is small enough to be carried in a backpack. Students of English as a foreign language find its pronunciation guides easy to use. Others find it quite handy to keep nearby, in offices and homes, as a quick reference when writing or reading. <br />Highly recommended!	2001-02-18
US	52976897	R6G45IZ9OCOWJ	1576109291	558855752	Mac OS 9.1 Black Book: A Comprehensive Technical Reference Guide	Books	3	44	45	N	N	Mac OS 9.1 Black Book: Needs More Updating	The _Mac OS 9.1 Black Book_ is touted by its authors as being written for three groups of people: (1) system administrators; (2) programmers; and (3) power users. Although I do not consider myself to have &quot;geek&quot; status, I might imagine that I am a &quot;power user.&quot; Since Apple released Mac OS 9.1 on January 10, 2001, I found the publication date of this book, December 29, 2000, to be slightly suspect. After I browsed the book at random and cross-checked index references, I was rather disheartened to discover that the information seemed to be rather basic (more in line with what one would find in a _ for Dummies_ book). Moreover, I found that the index pagination did not match up with the entries.<br />Further, I discovered that there were no references to _Microsoft Office 2001 for Mac_, which I consider to be a serious omission since this software was released in September, 2000. There are only a few pages on MS Word and Excel, and the information states that the Mac OS 9.1 user should not have very many problems because of the improvements made in _MS Office 98_! <br />Another entry that I checked was for the ARA (Apple Remote Access) control panel. The _Black Book_ gave some very basic information on it, and concluded that the ARA was not something that most Mac users would be employing, unless they were connecting to a LAN (Local Area Network). The book gave the rationale that most non-networked users would connect through a PPP rather than use ARA. To me, this information is not only outmoded, it is rather incomplete. Without going into too much technical detail, there are several ways to connect to an LAN, such as using AppleShare, AppleTalk, IRTalk, a LocalTalk cable and adapter, an Ethernet cable, or IrDA (Infrared). Unless I want to connect to one of the online services directly, I always use ARA (rather than PPP) to connect to my ISP (Internet Service Provider) because I get a higher baud rate that way, and ARA supports multiple connections, which is necessary if one is doing data transmission, using more than one browser, connecting to online services (such as AOL), e-mail servers (such as Telnet or Outlook Express), and instant-messaging applications (such as AIM). Also, one might use a DSL (Digital Subscriber Line) modem, cable modem, or direct network connection.<br />This _Black Book_ does go into some detail about cross-platform connectivity. However, most power-users, programmers, and sysadmins already know about how to address this issue. Mac OS 9.1 is a major system upgrade from Mac OS 9.04 in some respects, but not that much in the area of cross-platform connectivity. However, this book does discuss the new &quot;streamlining&quot; of folders that occurs. It also has a lot of detail on tweaking the &quot;Appearance&quot; control panel settings. <br />After I looked up a few more topics, I concluded that the information provided in this _Black Book_ was lacking in sophistication for &quot;power-users.&quot; Unfortunately, as far as I can tell, there are no other books in print yet that address Mac OS 9.1, (although Apple does provide online help and the &quot;Mac Help&quot; menu on OS 9.1 does cover the basics and &quot;what's new.&quot;) So if you are upgrading from Mac OS 8.6 directly to 9.1, and you have not bought a _for Dummies_ book on your Mac system software in some time, you may find this book to be a useful reference.	2001-02-07
US	52976897	R1LN8GGCQRCGDY	0393318117	223372159	Francais Parle (The Gimmick Series)	Books	2	7	8	N	N	Programmed Learning Method: Intermediate-Level Conversation	'Français Parlé' (previously published in 1977 as 'Le Gimmick: Français Parlé') by Adrienne is a method (Gimmick) of acquiring an international vocabulary. According to Adrienne, '[t]here is a basic vocabulary of words which is the same in any language.' One needs to know how to say the same things no matter where one might be. Her programmed method of learning everyday language for social settings is intended for use by students and others who have intermediate-level fluency, with a vocabulary of 5,000 or more words. Adrienne recommends self-study of at least 50 or more new words or phrases per week. <br />The 'Gimmick' begins with a short section of verbs in two columns, English and French. A large vocabulary section follows, with three to six words and phrases grouped in a column; one fills in the other columns as needed with translations, synonyms, and antonyms. Then one turns the page to check the answers. Next comes the idioms section that features a fill-in-the-blank column with the correct translation on the following page. The remainder of the book has a few pages of business vocabulary; 100 typical mistakes (one translates a sentence from English to French then checks the answer on the following page); adverbs and phrases; words and expressions 'not to say'  (in somewhat dated risqué language).<br />'Le Gimmick: Français Parlé' was originally published in 1974 (UK) and 1977 (US), and it's still in print as 'Gimmick I: Français Parlé'. Programmed learning was in vogue in the 1970s. For those who speak French at the intermediate level and know that they benefit from this type of programmed instruction, this book might prove to be useful for vocabulary building. Nonetheless, 'Français Parlé' needs updating: it is not 'the dynamic, uncensored vocabulary learning book' that the 1999 reissue purports it to be. There are two other books of programmed instruction by Adrienne: 'French in 32 Lessons (The Gimmick Series)' and 'Fast French: The Gimmick Series.' All four of these books are also published in Spanish, German, and Italian.	2000-12-23
US	52976897	R3NXZAR6IR0KOM	0684854279	552712486	Merde!: The Real French You Were Never Taught at School (Sexy Slang Series)	Books	4	15	18	N	N	Tchin! Tchin!	The very first &quot;naughty&quot; French word that most beginning students in the French language learn is &quot;merde!&quot; Thus, &quot;Merde!: The 'Real' French You Were Never Taught in School&quot; by Geneviève is an appropriately titled supplemental glossary of &quot;argot&quot; (slang) that probably is not be covered in Conversational French courses. However, one needs to learn this terminology as much as one needs to learn the subjunctive if one is to navigate successfully through the streets of France. Also, now that the internet has made it possible for people to chat online in French-speaking chat rooms, one needs to know more than formal French. Geneviève has compiled in &quot;Merde!&quot; twelve small chapters of &quot;a guide to survival.&quot; On each page the English words are on the left and the &quot;equivalent&quot; French colloquialisms are on the right. Geneviève has added asterisks to words that &quot;indicate a degree of rudeness above the ordinary colloquial . . . .[and] two asterisks show a whopper,&quot; which means the &quot;strength&quot; and &quot;rudeness&quot; of the expression. <br />Here are some of the chapter headings: &quot;The Body and Its Functions&quot;; &quot;The Weighty Matters of Love and Sex (National Obsession Number One)&quot;; &quot;The No Less Weighty Matters of Food and Drink (National Obsession Number Two)&quot;; &quot;Hassling&quot;; &quot;Money Matters&quot;; &quot;Work and Social Status&quot;; &quot;Indulging in Racism, Xenophobia and Disrespect for One's Elders&quot;; &quot;To Exit Rapidly&quot;; &quot;Positive Thinking&quot;; and &quot;Foreign Invasions of the Language.&quot; The first two chapters: &quot;Musts&quot; and &quot;Variations on a Theme&quot; go over basic idiomatic vocabulary, including all the parts of speech. At the end of all the chapters, there is either a &quot;review&quot; or a &quot;quiz&quot; to recapitulate what one has &quot;learned.&quot; This short book concludes with a four question &quot;final exam&quot; (and the answers are given in English).<br />There are several ways to approach this book. If one speaks decent French already, one may enjoy browsing through the book to &quot;pick up&quot; a bit of slang. (One will hear this type of language all over France and online in French chat rooms.) Further, one could make an attempt to memorize the vocabulary so that one may understand what is being said (or typed). &quot;Merde!&quot; offers a brief overview of the more salacious and, as Geneviève says, &quot;authentic&quot; language of modern France. However, &quot;Merde!&quot; does not offer that many idiomatic phrases because it is primarily a vocabulary book. <br />Highly recommended for travelers, whether &quot;real time&quot; or &quot;cyber&quot;!	2000-12-23
US	52976897	R217MEVLCLWJQ7	0684854287	552712486	Merde Encore!: More of the Real French You Were Never Taught at School (Sexy Slang Series)	Books	3	16	19	N	N	An Outsider's &quot;Look&quot; into the French Psyche?	In &quot;Merde Encore!,&quot; author Geneviève recommends that one should have looked over her previous book, &quot;Merde!,&quot; because she &quot;shall at times . . . assume knowledge acquired in the first.&quot; Thus, she says, &quot;What I offer here is further exploration of colloquial vocabulary and idioms and, through them, deeper insights into the French psyche.&quot; So, while the layout of &quot;Merde Encore!&quot; is similar to &quot;Merde!,&quot; there is a difference in tone between the two books. &quot;Merde!&quot; presents a colloquial and idiomatic French glossary, and &quot;Merde Encore!&quot; attempts to offer an outsider's view on the French psyche (in particular, on the Frenchman's psyche) in a rather sarcastic commentary interspersed with additional vocabulary. Here, Geneviève extends her thesis from &quot;Merde!&quot; (see the chapter on &quot;Xenophobia and Racism&quot;) on the &quot;innate French feeling of superiority&quot; by indulging in lots of name-calling and stereotyping. In the interests of free speech, a glossary, dictionary, or phrasebook may offer &quot;politically incorrect&quot; terminology and usage. However, it is up to the reader to decide if a line has been crossed when an author chooses to perpetuate xenophobic stereotypes by using the words &quot;Frog,&quot; &quot;Froggie,&quot; and &quot;Frog Pathology,&quot; and by offering undocumented commentary on the hygiene of the French, for example. Sometimes it is difficult to determine what is humour and what is not. (The foregoing remarks are offered by this reviewer as a disclaimer.)<br />&quot;Merde Encore!&quot; has thirteen short chapters: &quot;Verbs&quot; (i.e., the &quot;moi-je&quot; syndrome); &quot;Suffixes&quot; (&quot;instruments of belittlement and contempt&quot;); &quot;Les Beaux Gestes&quot; (with cartoons of French gestures, illustrated by Michael Heath); &quot;Guillotined French&quot; (&quot;shortened&quot; French words, like &quot;cap&quot; for &quot;capable&quot;); &quot;Counting in French&quot; (including &quot;The Frog Clock&quot;); &quot;Sound Effects&quot;; &quot;The Most Popular Ingredients of French Idioms&quot; (food and animals); &quot;Anatomy of a Frog&quot;; &quot;Appee Beurzdé Tooh Yooh&quot; (&quot;Franglais&quot;); &quot;Allons Enfants&quot; (&quot;kiddie talk&quot;); &quot;The Cocorico Syndrome&quot; (i.e., &quot;Frogs on Wheels&quot;); &quot;Geography à la Française&quot; (i.e., &quot;the Parisians and the rest&quot;); and &quot;Your PH.D. Exam.&quot;       <br />This book has quite a bit of useful idiomatic vocabulary and phrasing; it is also quite humourous. As to an insight into the French psyche or national character, I think not. For a more perceptive, witty, and insightful read on an outsider's view of the (Parisian) French, I highly recommend &quot;French Toast,&quot; by Harriet Welty Rochefort. The irony of Geneviève's books (particularly the second one) is that they would be most appealing to an age group who should not be reading them!	2000-12-23
US	52976897	R136I98C7CVP4Q	0395825172	956346567	The American Heritage Dictionary of the English Language, Fourth Edition	Books	3	201	223	N	N	Buyer Beware: The Handsome Book is Flawed!	After using &quot;The American Heritage Dictionary of the English Language&quot; (4th ed.) on a daily basis for three weeks, I have discovered that there is a potential defect in it that prospective buyers need beware. The paper used for the pages of this dictionary is very thin, almost like tissue paper. When I turn pages in searching for a word, the bottoms of the pages become very easily chipped (small tears occur). I am very concerned that my new dictionary will become shredded within a few months. I have not had this problem with the same dictionary in the third edition; my copy is several years old. (Publisher please take note and use better paper in subsequent printings.)<br />I still recommend &quot;The AHD&quot; (4th ed.) as a very good reference dictionary, but if one plans to use it a lot as I do, then &quot;handle with care.&quot;	2000-12-19
US	52976897	RD1QXI1P355RW	0844214655	918855353	Ntc's Dictionary of French Faux Pas/Common Errors of English-Speakers in French and How to Avoid Them (Language - French) (English and French Edition)	Books	4	11	11	N	N	Good Supplemental Dictionary for Translators and Students	Translation work, whether it be from French-to-English or English-to-French, presents extraordinary difficulties due to the ever-evolving usage of both languages. Thus, a translator (teacher, student, traveler) encounters many pitfalls when navigating the terrain of idiomatic language. Such &quot;faux pas&quot; (lit., &quot;false steps&quot;) may prove to be embarrassing, at the least. &quot;NTC's Dictionary of French Faux Pas&quot; sets out to eliminate blunders from translations and speech as the barriers are broached between English and French.<br />This dictionary is organized alphabetically: words in English form the left column on each page and their equivalencies in French form the right column on the same page. The main English word and phrase headings are in boldface; the subheadings of related English words and phrases and their facing translations in French are in small regular typeface. While a bit hard on the eyes, nonetheless, this arrangement is very handy for memorization purposes; one needs merely to hold one's palm over one side of the page and then recite the translations. <br />Interspersed throughout the dictionary are flagged &quot;faux amis&quot; (lit., &quot;false friends&quot;). These &quot;faux amis&quot; are arranged alphabetically, thus somewhat disrupting the two-column arrangement. These words present special pitfalls in that they &quot;. . . may look similar in French and English but have totally different meanings. For example, &quot;la monnaie&quot; means change and not &quot;money&quot; &quot; (iii). Other examples are: &quot;partir&quot; (&quot;to depart&quot;), &quot;lecture&quot; [f] (&quot;reading&quot;), &quot;fabrique&quot; [f] (&quot;factory&quot;), and &quot;éventuellement&quot; (&quot;possibly&quot;). [&quot;Possiblement&quot; is not French.] I would like this dictionary more if there were also a glossary of these &quot;faux amis&quot; because the misuse of these words is particularly egregious in translation and speech. Another useful feature that is not present in this dictionary would be an index of the French words and phrases with page numbers for their English equivalencies. <br />Overall, &quot;NTC's Dictionary of French Faux Pas&quot; is a very good supplement to standard French-English/English-French desk dictionaries, such as &quot;The Oxford-Hachette French Dictionary&quot; (2nd ed.), &quot;Harrap's Shorter French Dictionary,&quot; &quot;HarperCollins Robert French Unabridged Dictionary&quot; (5th ed.) and  &quot;Larousse French-English English-French Dictionary&quot; [Unabridged]. This book is not only an idiomatic English-French dictionary but also a usage manual, and, as such, is well worth memorizing.	2000-12-17
US	52976897	R2LW4BI3ULJOVH	2831562392	264684962	French Phrase Book (French Edition)	Books	5	28	29	N	N	Buy Two (They're Small)	Even in the States, I carry the &quot;Berlitz French Phrase Book &amp; Dictionary&quot; with me most of the time. Why you might ask? I love the French language so much that if someone I meet wants to learn it and practice it with me, I end up giving them this little book as a present. Its organization is superb, and you can easily find the section you need, whether it be the most basic French expression, such as &quot;Comment ça va?&quot; or more specialized information, such as a list of foods (look up &quot;pamplemousse&quot;), or how to get emergency help (&quot;au secours!&quot;). The pronunciation guides are pretty good, but the dictionary part is spartan, so I would not rely on it alone for looking up words. On a trip, take along a small &quot;Larousse Dictionnaire de Poche&quot; as well. You may want to add one of the &quot;racier&quot; phrase books from the &quot;Street French&quot; series or &quot;Merde!&quot; or &quot;Merde Encore!&quot; to keep at your place of lodging. As an alternative or as an addition, I recommend &quot;Lonely Planet French Phrasebook,&quot; which seems to have more variety in terms of content, but lacks the organization of the Berlitz.<br />Berlitz has been publishing these phrasebooks in many languages for years, so do not hesitate to buy this classic. Be sure to check for the most recent edition as these books are updated often.	2000-12-17
US	52976897	RIRPH8YZ7DN6F	0486204197	846347524	Essential French Grammar (Dover Language Guides Essential Grammar)	Books	5	63	65	N	N	Know Your French Phrases First . . .	&quot;The purpose of this book is to enable you to achieve greater fluency with the phrase approach, not to teach you to construct sentences from rules and vocabulary,&quot; says Professor Seymour Resnick, in the Introduction of &quot;Essential French Grammar.&quot; He goes on to say that his book is not supposed to be used as a primary text for a university course but for adult self-study. First, read the entire book--it is short but pithy. After this quick overview, one will be familiar with the areas in which one needs to concentrate. This little grammar book is designed to help one speak French better: &quot;On apprend à parler en parlant.&quot; (One learns to speak by speaking.) Yes, one does make mistakes, especially with verbs and verb tenses, but with practice one can improve.<br />&quot;Essential Grammar&quot; is such a handy little book. It reviews all the parts of speech with practical examples of usage. There are sections on vocabulary-building techniques and tips on how to build a specialized vocabulary based on one's immediate needs, such as travel or business communication. There is a list of 2,500 cognates (the most often used words that share French and English forms); the author recommends several methods for easy memorization of these words. The book concludes with a glossary and index.<br />Highly recommended as an aide to learning or reviewing French grammar and vocabulary!	2000-12-17
US	52976897	R3AKAYTJ4UR11F	0609602756	937772802	French: Complete Course (Book & CD) (English and French Edition)	Books	3	16	16	N	N	Improve your French Accent . . .	The &quot;Living Language Complete Courses: Compact Disc Edition&quot; are great to use in your car CD player or Discman. These CDs are available in French, Spanish, Italian, German, and Japanese. The &quot;French Complete Course&quot; is very basic instruction: the repeat-after-me words and phrases that one learns in a high school or university language lab during the first year or two of study. A small coursebook comes with the three CD set that has the transcript of the spoken material on the CDs, which is only in French. There are forty &quot;lessons&quot; in all; many of these lessons include translations of the French words and phrases, and there are some short quizzes you can take. There is also a small French-English/English-French dictionary in the set, and it has over 15,000 words in tiny print.  <br />This language course on CDs is not an intensive immersion-type instruction in French. However, it is the best way to form and improve on your French accent and sentence intonation. French is a difficult language to pronounce correctly and repeated drills are necessary. So if you are not in France, or another French-speaking country, and you have no one with whom to practice speaking French on a regular basis, these French language CDs will help you gain or regain confidence in your conversational skills. This boxed set makes a nice gift for someone who is planning a trip to France. (Living Language also makes audio cassettes in the languages mentioned above plus Hebrew, Portuguese, Russian, Hungarian, Korean, Polish, Mandarin, Czech, Arabic, and American English.)	2000-12-17
US	52976897	R15H5HJP1GVDQ6	0805047115	784692258	Les Bons Mots: How to Amaze Tout Le Monde with Everyday French	Books	5	14	16	N	N	Ehrlich Does It Again! (in French)	&quot;Les Bons Mots: How to Amaze 'Tout le Monde' with Everyday French&quot; is another fun book from Dr. Eugene Ehrlich, coeditor of &quot;The Oxford English Dictionary&quot; and author of the the &quot;Extraordinarily Literate&quot; series and other language books. At first glance, &quot;Bons Mots&quot; appears to be a glossary of sorts, or a compendium of useful French expressions and aphorisms, but on closer inspection, one finds a very well presented exposition of classic French phrases and proverbs, with excellent pronunciation guides. This book is not intended to be taken on a trip to France as a guide to what French people are saying, but rather it is a reference book for either looking up something in French that one comes across in one's reading, or a source for interjecting a bit of spice into one's own prose. Dr. Ehrlich's Latin phrase books, &quot;Amo, Amas, Amat&quot; and &quot;Veni, Vidi, Vici&quot; provided a model for this book, so people who like those books will like this one too. One can either use &quot;Bons Mots&quot; like a dictionary or simply read it here and there for fun. Many of the entries are annotated with morsels of French history and usage notes, and there is an index, in English. Highly recommended addition for the well-stocked reference shelf!	2000-12-14
US	52976897	RKXY4VMNNIMW	2034207106	751872812	Larousse Pocket French/English English/French Dictionary (French Edition)	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Larousse: le meilleur dictionnaire de poche	Larousse sets the standard for French dictionaries, no matter the size. This &quot;nouveau dictionnaire de poche: franais-anglais/anglais-franais&quot; (April 1999) is a quite good french-english/english-french pocket dictionary. However, for less than five dollars more one can obtain a better &quot;pocket&quot; Larousse (dictionnaire compact, January 2000), which is almost the same size (2/3 inch thicker). It is the same dictionary, but with 120,000 translations (instead of the 80,000 translations in this one). This smaller dictionary is also excellent for quick translations and has very up-to-date usages. As with any dictionary, keep an eye out for revised editions each year.	2000-12-06
US	52976897	R2XPA8MFDV7XRW	203301200X	718888690	Le Petit Larousse Illustre 2000 (French Edition)	Books	5	16	16	N	N	&quot;Le Petit Larousse Illustré 2000&quot;: Exceptionel!	&quot;Le Petit Larousse Illustré 2000&quot; is the most recent editon of &quot;un livre de mots mais aussi un livre d'images,&quot; which dates from 1905. &quot;Le Petit&quot; is written completely in French; thus, this reference book is best used by one with a basic understanding of the French language. At some point during one's study of French, one begins to be able to think in French. When one thinks in French and is able to read books written in French, it is best to have a dictionary that is french only. Then one is not constantly translating from one language to another, thus losing some of the &quot;sense&quot; of what one is reading. &quot;Le Petit Larousse&quot; is an excellent desk reference book, not only for looking up unfamiliar words, but also for cultural phenomena. The illustrations are in color and are quite beautiful; there are illustrations of words; photographs; botanical drawings; maps and atlases, both current and historical; tables of lists; and detailed schematics of medical, scientific, and technological terminologies. <br />The main organization of the book is divided into two parts: (1) &quot;common&quot; words, including all parts of speech, &quot;current&quot; vocabulary, specialized vocabulary, and encyclopedia entries; and (2) &quot;proper&quot; words (nouns) of people, countries, places, historical periods and events, institutions, titles of works, legendary and literary heroes, and celebrities. There is a small &quot;pink&quot; section in the middle of the book which contains Latin, Greek, and foreign sayings; and French proverbs. There is also an introductory section which has a French pronunciation guide; table of 95 French verb conjugations; and a review of participles, plurals of nouns, prefixes, suffixes, abbreviations, and headings.<br />There is a perduring philosophy which has guided the compilation and formation of this beautiful book through so many editions for almost one hundred years: &quot;Aujourd'hui comme hier, le &quot;Petit Larousse&quot;  propose à ceux qui ont la langue française en partage un savoir citoyen. C'est par la langue et à travers la mémoire collective que nous appartenons à une cité dans laquelle les mots ne sont ni abscons ni assassins, où l'on peut donner le meilleur de soi-même, recevoir sans méfiance la parole de l'autre et construire ensemble l'avenir.&quot; (Please forgive me for not translating this passage--it is so evocative, I feel to do so would be an injustice.)	2000-12-06
US	52976897	RJAT1L09DWH9U	2034205022	142908151	Larousse Concise Dictionary French English/English French	Books	5	17	17	N	N	Larousse: le meilleur dictionnaire de poche français-anglais	Larousse sets the standard for pocket dictionaries. This &quot;nouveau dictionnaire de poche: franais-anglais&quot; is the best small french-english/english-french dictionary one can find. The January, 2000 edition has 120,000 translations, which is 40,000 more than the 1999 editon and well worth the five dollar increase in price. This dictionary is excellent for quick translations and is very up-to-date with usage.	2000-12-04
US	52976897	R27AUZR0PD2UJJ	0812092813	652020059	501 French Verbs: Fully Conjugated in All the Tenses in a New Easy-To-Learn Format Alphabetically Arranged (English and French Edition)	Books	5	12	13	N	N	Pass&eacute; compos&eacute;? Conditionnel? Subjonctif?	&quot;501 French Verbs,&quot; fourth edition, is an essential companion to the Larousse french-english/english-french pocket dictionary. The format is arranged alphabetically and is very easy to use. I recommend this reference book for everyone, from the beginning student to the native speaker of French. Since the French language has many irregular verbs, as well as verbs which are conjugated with être and avoir, it is very easy to forget some of the conjugations. I use this verb book when I am writing in a formal style, and when I need to do precise translations. Useful Appendixes follow the 501 verb conjugations: an index; some idiomatic expressions; a pronunciation guide; a section on the use of the subjunctive, and much more, including verb drills.	2000-12-04
US	52976897	R3C9IHFLRBTW56	0671035576	689614798	The New Yorker Book of Literary Cartoons	Books	5	11	11	N	N	A Collector's Item	No matter how jaded, how cynical, how hard-boiled you may think yourself to be, at least one of these cartoons from the archives of The New Yorker will make you smile! Mr. Bob Mankoff, cartoon editor of The New Yorker since 1997, has put together a classic assortment of 104 drawings from the archives. &quot;The New Yorker Book of Literary Cartoons&quot; captures the cachet of the City, while poking fun at writers, editors, publishers, booksellers, and, most of all, at books, and those who read them. From the bookstore browsing Bibliophile Bikers Club to Mme Sartre's empty mailbox (&quot;Sacr bleu! Again with the nothingness, and on my birthday yet!&quot;) to the hilarious note magnetized on &quot;James Joyce's Refrigerator,&quot; one will find sterling examples of the wonderful satirical wit which has graced the pages of this magazine for 75 years. Buy this book for yourself! (Highly recommended for writer's block.) Better yet, buy this book for your editor or for your bookworm friends!	2000-12-02
US	52976897	R3OKLM49YKX26P	0684853523	44310359	On Writing:  A Memoir of the Craft	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Down East Sensibility	Surprise! Stephen King, master of the horror fiction genre, wrote a second nonfiction book, &quot;On Writing: A Memoir of the Craft.&quot; Surprise! S.K. penned a pageturner on his writing life (\\"C.V.\\"), his toolbox (well-constructed metaphor for a writer's toolkit), his practical advice for writers, his reading list, and his recent near-fatal accident. Surprise! This book appealed not only to his fans but also to those who have not read his other thirty books. <br />For an editor, what's not to love about an author who says, in his Third Foreward, &quot;One rule of the road not directly stated elsewhere in this book: 'The editor is always right' . . . .[and] to write is human, to edit is divine.&quot; I have recommended this book to several novelists, both for King's teaching on the craft of writing and for his down east sensibilty.   <br />Mr. King's &quot;C.V.,&quot; a creative &quot;Curriculum Vitae,&quot; offers this keen insight: &quot;In my character, a kind of wildness and conservativism are wound together like hair in a braid.&quot; So he recounts adventures and academic credentials.      <br />One evening, King asked San Francisco author Amy Tan what was the one question they were never asked. She replied, &quot;No one ever asks about the language.&quot; In &quot;On Writing,&quot; King shows us the language; he writes fresh, funky, in-your-face prose. Here are a few nuggets: &quot;. . . my testicles turned into stoplights&quot;; &quot;. . . by most Friday afternoons I'd felt as if I'd spent the week with jumper cables attached to my brain&quot;; &quot;. . . perky as a rat in liverwurst.&quot; No &quot;deified plums&quot; here.	2000-11-09
US	52976897	R11MUYKCSALTAE	1582430837	122266781	The Visitor	Books	5	15	16	N	N	A Haunting Glimpse of the Irish Temper	James Joyce has a rival in Maeve Brennan. In her first work, &quot;The Visitor,&quot; Brennan creates a chilling portrait of a young woman, Anastasia King. But Anastasia is no Stephen Dedalus. Unlike Stephen, she is uneducated and has limited opportunities. Crossing the channel in opposite directions, for opposite reasons, Anastasia and Stephen have visions of different destinies. <br />For Anastasia,<br /> &quot;Somewhere in her mind a voice was saying clearly, 'Ireland is my dwelling place, Dublin is my    station. . . .Home is a place in the mind. When it is empty, it frets. It is fretful with memory, faces   and places and times gone by. Beloved images rise up in disobedience and make a mirror for    emptiness. . . . Comical and hopeless, the long gaze back is always turned inward.&quot;<br />For Stephen, <br /> &quot;Mother is putting my new secondhand clothes in order. She prays now, she says, that I may learn   in my own life and away from home and friends what the heart is and what it feels. Amen. So be it.   Welcome, O life! I go to encounter for the millionth time the reality of experience and to forge in the                     smithy of my soul the uncreated consciousness of my race&quot; (&quot;A Portrait of the Artist as a Young Man&quot;).<br />For Joyce and Brennan, Dublin proved to be a cold inhospitable place from which they chose to escape--Joyce to Paris and Brennan to the United States. Here, in her new \\"station,\\" Brennan created a perfect novella, \\"The Visitor.\\" This undiscovered masterpiece will now take its place besides Joyce's perfect novella, \\"The Dead.\\"<br />To say a novella is perfect is to say that one has no words to add nor subtract, for the work is rare, beautiful, and truth-telling. \\"The Visitor\\" speaks volumes about the Irish temper; the icy chill that greets Anastasia shivers through one's soul. <br />Christopher Carduff adds an insightful Editor's Note to the novella. In it, he says, \\"In the music of Maeve Brennan, three notes repeatedly sound together-a ravenous grudge, a ravenous nostalgia, and a ravenous need for love. In `The Visitor' she plays this chord for the first time, announcing the key of all the songs to follow.\\" What follows are: \\"The Springs of Affection: Stories of Dublin,\\" \\"The Rose Garden: Short Stories,\\" and \\"The Long-Winded Lady: Notes from the New Yorker.\\" <br />Read \\"The Visitor\\" first: an entrée into the mind of a mistress of manners, Maeve Brennan.	2000-11-08
US	52976897	R2WJVYDNKLXZWM	0060197242	547397911	But I Love Him: Protecting Your Teen Daughter from Controlling, Abusive Dating Relationships	Books	4	31	36	N	N	Dating Violence and Adolescents	Dating Violence and Adolescents<br />Consciousness-raising can be the first step in a journey of social change. Speaking primarily to parents, the purported agents of social change vis à vis dating violence in adolescents, through the pages of &quot;but i love him: Protecting Your Teen Daughter from Controlling, Abusive Dating Relationships,&quot; psychotherapist Dr. Jill Murray seems to translate transcripts of her public speaking engagements from speech-to-text. While this reviewer has not had the opportunity to hear Dr. Murray speak, one  might presuppose from reading her book that she is persuasive. <br />Dr. Murray advises parents on how to identify dating abuse in their teenager(s). Next, she describes three levels of violence (which she believes may be sequential): verbal and emotional abuse; sexual abuse; and physical abuse. Based on her work in a Southern California battered women's and children's shelter with clients aged eighteen to twenty-two, Dr. Murray constructs practical questionnaires; profiles of abusers and abused; and lists of some &quot;fundamental truths,&quot; behaviors, and concepts regarding dating violence in teens. For instance, she states, &quot;Abuse is a learned behavior . . . . from seeing it used as an effective tool of control--usually in the home in which [the abusive boyfriend] grew up . . . . and [if] it is not addressed, it will continue and may escalate, regardless of whether the boy appears to be Mr. Wonderful&quot; (74-75).<br />In a subsequent chapter, Dr. Murray compares and contrasts &quot;infatuation,&quot; &quot;addictive love,&quot; and &quot;mature love.&quot; Most readers will find this review to be very useful, regardless of their ages. (For further insights, I highly recommend &quot;Sex, Love, or Infatuation: How Can I Really Know?&quot; by Ray E. Short.)<br />Leaving aside her rather abstract and unarticulated assertion that &quot;love is a behavior,&quot; this reviewer believes that Dr. Murray posits correctly that &quot;[f]amily dynamics are perhaps the most important indicator of whether a girl will choose an abusive boyfriend&quot; (80). In &quot;How to Prevent Abuse in the First Place: Family Dynamics,&quot; Dr. Murray cautions the parent/reader that &quot;[t]his may be the most difficult chapter in this book for you to read. I want you to know up front that I appreciate that, and my intention is not to blame, judge, criticize, or call you a bad guy. By addressing the elements of parental responsibility that 'helped' your daughter get into her abusive relationship with her boyfriend, we can begin to see a way to help her get out&quot; (115). Thus, although one's daughter may have &quot;chosen&quot; to be in relationship with an abusive boyfriend, (and Dr. Murray does not allow for abdication of choice here), she  may not have chosen freely. As well, though parents hold shared responsibility with their daughter(s) for this choice, parents may not have chosen freely all of their own behaviors either, as is true in the case of &quot;choosing&quot; to stay in a situation of domestic violence, perhaps with the compounding factors of substance abuse and/or mental illness. Further, as psychotherapist and parent, Dr. Murray shares in this struggle through her use here of the pronoun &quot;we.&quot; <br />However, Dr. Murray's rhetoric holds some tension; sometimes one gets the message that she is talking &quot;at&quot; parents rather than &quot;with&quot; parents. Such may be the inadvertent case when a book evolves from the lecture circuit rather than when a book leads an author to the lecture circuit. While a &quot;lecturing&quot; tone may be entirely appropriate when the medium used is abridged audiocassette, it seems out of place in a text on such a sensitive topic. There is an unevenness here: for the most part, Dr. Murray speaks only to parents, yet there are instances where she says to show &quot;parts&quot; of the book to teens. Anyone who is the parent of a teen, or whohas counseled teens, can attest that teens &quot;turn off&quot; when they feel patronized. <br />Further proof that this book is primarily rhetorical rests in iteration of slews of undocumented statistics. To name but a few: &quot;It is estimated that one in three girls will have an abusive dating experience by the time she graduates from high school&quot; (7); &quot;As many as 50 percent of dating women suffer physical, sexual, emotional, or verbal abuse from their dating partners&quot; (9); &quot;Alcohol use among teenage males is now at an all-time high. The use of crystal meth is out of control&quot; (72); &quot;. . .we are now aware that chronic use of marijuana or crystal meth causes rage and paranoia&quot; (73); &quot;While we know that 97 percent of physical abuse is perpetrated by men and boys, women and girls emotionally abuse others quite often&quot; (131). Further, there are pages with whole lists of statistics and assertions that are neither referenced nor documented. Yes, this book does fall within the self-help genre. No, this classification is not an excuse for failure to note sources. Chapter notes may be placed at the end of the book so as not to disturb the narrative flow. If one seeks to educate and enlighten readers, and thereby to create social change, one must give them a full set of tools for the toolbox.<br />Excellent &quot;Resources&quot; do append the narrative. With the exception of internet resources, which are limited to a few keywords for each subject heading, Dr. Murray offers parents, counselors, teens, and other concerned persons a selected compendium of books and organizations (including hotlines). There is also a good index. <br />In conclusion, with the reservations as stated above, I highly recommend this book. It is another important contribution to the literature on domestic violence: it continues the discussion as to the causes and prevention of this very serious societal problem; it gives practical advice for medical, legal, and psychological assistance; and it describes healthy dating relationships and the role of self-esteem.  I think parents will find hope here.	2000-11-05
US	52976897	R2DROW9GYH9EBZ	0465090737	982486352	Not To People Like Us Hidden Abuse In Upscale Marriages	Books	5	33	35	N	N	&quot;Every 12 seconds&quot;: Domestic Violence (upscale, too)	&quot;Upscale violence&quot;: a term coined by Dr. Susan Weitzman, a practicing psychotherapist in Chicago, refers to the often hidden physical and/or emotional abuse that is endured by married women of means. In her groundbreaking, well-referenced study: &quot;Not to People Like Us: Hidden Abuse in Upscale Marriages,&quot; Dr. Weitzman focuses a narrow lens. She offers a unique contribution to the literature on domestic violence: her work is based on many years of experience, both working in women's shelters and counseling battered wives. Through a combination of case studies of these poignant yet punished women of means and a rigorous analysis and review of the extant literature on domestic violence, Dr. Weitzman presents and proves a powerful thesis. She debunks the myth that conjugal abuse correlates with lower-class status, and, at the same time, deflects the hostility that some of her peers have heaped on her for selecting this particular population. &quot;A unique aspect of this book is the 'inclusionary' dimension of targeting battered women of means. . . .[which] is not a claim that this population needs special attention,&quot; says Dr. Weitzman, but &quot;[r]ather it is an attempt at 'specifically' including upscale wives who have been overlooked in the larger group of abused women.&quot;<br />Who are these women? They are well educated, with at least a bachelor's degree; they live in the top 25% of this country's neighborhoods; they see themselves as upper-middle-class or upper-class; and their combined marital income exceeds $100,000.00.   While Dr. Weitzman delineates the &quot;typical profile&quot; of the upscale abusive husband, she does not indulge in male-battering. She correctly identifies domestic violence as a systemic problem. The appendices of her book: &quot;Are You an Abused Woman?,&quot; &quot;Traits of an Abusive Man,&quot; &quot;Early Warning Signs,&quot; and &quot;Domestic Violence Resources&quot; are reason alone for its purchase. Therefore, this book belongs in every library, women's shelter, emergency room, and psychotherapist's office.<br />Notwithstanding the strengths of Dr. Weitzman's book and her contribution to the literature on domestic violence, as an editor, I feel compelled to offer some constructive criticism. &quot;Not to People Like Us&quot; lacks organization. In an effort to make the book dramatic (and it is a quick read), the case studies are interwoven with history, theory, flowcharts, classical mythology, and psychoanalysis; thus, it is difficult to follow the thread of each woman's life. A more traditional approach of formally presenting the case studies at the beginning of the book, so that the reader can refer back to them as needed, would help. Also, Dr. Weitzman limited her population to fourteen women, which is a very small sample; however, she clearly and convincingly states her reason for so doing. Finally, the careful reader will find the Notes, References, and Index to be littered with distracting errors; such is often the case when a dissertation manuscript is rushed into publication. It is hard to discern which style manual was followed, if any, (e.g., &quot;The Chicago Manual of Style&quot; or the &quot;APA Manual&quot;). (There are also a few places in the text that need copyediting, but I hesitate to comment on them because I make typos in almost every review.)<br />Another important new book which confronts the reality of domestic violence is &quot;But I Love Him,&quot; by Dr. Jill Murray. Dr. Murray focuses on abusive controlling patterns of behavior in boyfriends toward their teenaged girlfriends. This book dovetails well with Dr. Weitzman's book because it also looks toward prevention of abuse. To be truly informed about this societal ill, one must also read books by psychologist Lenore Walker: &quot;Battered Woman&quot; and &quot;The Battered Woman Syndrome.&quot; These books introduce the concept of the three-stage cycle of violence: the tension-building stage; the explosive stage; and the honeymoon stage (a stage which Dr. Weitzman found does not exist in upscale violence).	2000-10-24
US	52976897	R1722RGMZCGZW4	0674002903	944719563	This Craft of Verse (Charles Eliot Norton Lectures)	Books	5	14	14	N	N	Magisterial Magician: Borges	An otherworldly snapshot of Jorge Luis Borges, head tilted upward from the lectern with his mouth caught in motion, graces the cover of the slim volume, &quot;This Craft of Verse&quot; (Charles Eliot Norton Lectures). Once in hand, this book is difficult to ignore. Aside from his generous citations of poets, from Homer to Virgil to Coleridge to Keats to Whitman, Borges delivers his received wisdom, distilled from his years of writing. Any one of several passages taken from these five lectures, which have been skillfully edited by Professor Calin-Andrei Mihailescu, is well worth the price of admission. An example: &quot;What does being a writer mean to me? It means simply being true to my imagination&quot; (113).<br />Borges dissembles as he describes the poetic process. He cleverly tells the audience that perhaps they know more than he does about this subject. Yet his apparent humility before the genius of Homer seems authentic. Further, he proffers lines from Frost and Byron to illustrate the power of metaphor: sleep and night--are they &quot;words&quot; or do they connect to one of the twelve patterns in our collective imagination? For Borges, &quot;Words are symbols for shared memories&quot; (137).<br />When Borges says (after Whistler) that &quot;Art happens every time we read a poem,&quot; (6) he means to tell us that it is okay to live with the mystery, that we don't need to &quot;tinker&quot; with our poetry to make it &quot;right.&quot; What we must do is to be faithful to the dream from which the words came. The magic is in the words; thus &quot;the first reading of a poem is a true one&quot; (6). Such good advice from the master abounds--one can hear him speak through the text. (A CD is forthcoming.)<br />Highly recommended to struggling writers and readers of poetry! This book would be excellent for use in a poetry workshop as an antidote to poison of critical choruses. One does not have to be a disciple of Borges to appreciate these lost but now found lectures.	2000-10-05
US	52976897	RHAXXBDNRA6LM	0393967972	377046405	The Metamorphosis (Norton Critical Editions)	Books	5	2	4	N	N	Excellent Translation, Annotation, and Critical Essays	Professor Stanley Korngold translates Franz Kafka's novella, &quot;The Metamorphosis&quot; (1915), and edits this Norton Critical Edition. Even though Korngold's translation was done in 1971, it stands as an excellent idiomatic rendition of the original German manuscript. Korngold includes in this volume a section entitled &quot;Kafka's Manuscript Revisions,&quot; which reflects more recent German scholarship. Korngold's page-by-page annotations to the novella elucidate details which serve to clarify the text for close readings. Following the novella, (&quot;Die Verlandlung,&quot; in German), is a section of pertinent exerpts of Kafka's Letters and Diaries. The next section of the volume, &quot;Criticism,&quot; contains a collection of seven essays, which were written between 1970-1995. A Chronology of Kafka's life and work and a Selected Biography are also included.<br />Professor Korngold has done a masterful job with this edition of &quot;The Metamorphosis.&quot; Kafka's masterpiece, according to Korngold, &quot;...is perfect, even as it incessantly provokes criticism.&quot; For the transformation of Gregor Samsa into the &quot;monstrous vermin&quot; disturbs readers who want and need to &quot;control&quot; the text. To do otherwise is to accept the hopelessness that is at the center of Samsa's existence. For the uninitiated readers, who are  often first-year university students in required literature courses, &quot;The Metamorphosis&quot; often defies facile interpretation. Thus, the critical essays, which include poststructuralist, psychoanalytic, feminist, cultural, and historicist literary theories about the novella, are very helpful to frustrated students who may have been given essay assignments. Of particular note is Korngold's critical discussion of Kafka's &quot;literalization of the metaphor.&quot;<br />My suggestion is to read &quot;The Metamorphosis&quot; first (in this excellent Korngold translation) and to note one's immediate reactions to the text. Then, one can explore the other sections of this critical edition at one's leisure. Finally, one can re-read the text again. (&quot;The Metamorphosis&quot; is short enough that it can easily be read in one sitting.)<br />This Norton Critical Edition is highly recommended for inclusion in first-year university literature curriculae, as well as for AP high school English or World Literature courses. Franz Kafka was one of the literary geniuses of the twentieth century, and &quot;The Metamorphosis&quot; is an excellent introduction to his writings.Then, one can explore the other sections of this critical edition at one's leisure. Finally, one can re-read the text again. (&quot;The Metamorphosis&quot; is short enough that it can easily be read in one sitting.)<br />This Norton Critical Edition is highly recommended for inclusion in first-year university literature curriculae, as well as for AP high school English or World Literature courses. Franz Kafka was one of the literary geniuses of the twentieth century, and &quot;The Metamorphosis&quot; is an excellent introduction to his writings.	2000-10-01
US	52976897	R3LFUID4HA94A2	0393967972	377046405	The Metamorphosis (Norton Critical Editions)	Books	5	18	19	N	N	Excellent Translation, Annotation, and Critical Essays	Professor Stanley Korngold translates Franz Kafka's novella, &quot;The Metamorphosis&quot; (1915), and edits this Norton Critical Edition. Even though Korngold's translation was done in 1971, it stands as an excellent idiomatic rendition of the original German manuscript. Korngold includes in this volume a section entitled &quot;Kafka's Manuscript Revisions,&quot; which reflects more recent German scholarship. Korngold's page-by-page annotations to the novella elucidate details which serve to clarify the text for close readings. Following the novella, (&quot;Die Verlandlung,&quot; in German), is a section of pertinent exerpts of Kafka's Letters and Diaries. The next section of the volume, &quot;Criticism,&quot; contains a collection of seven essays, which were written between 1970-1995. A Chronology of Kafka's life and work and a Selected Biography are also included. <br />Professor Korngold has done a masterful job with this edition of &quot;The Metamorphosis.&quot; Kafka's masterpiece, according to Korngold, &quot;...is perfect, even as it incessantly provokes criticism.&quot; For the transformation of Gregor Samsa into the &quot;monstrous vermin&quot; disturbs readers who want and need to &quot;control&quot; the text. To do otherwise is to accept the hopelessness that is at the center of Samsa's existence. For the uninitiated readers, who are  often first-year university students in required literature courses, &quot;The Metamorphosis&quot; often defies facile interpretation. Thus, the critical essays, which include poststructuralist, psychoanalytic, feminist, cultural, and historicist literary theories about the novella, are very helpful to frustrated students who may have been given essay assignments. Of particular note is Korngold's critical discussion of Kafka's &quot;literalization of the metaphor.&quot;<br />My suggestion is to read &quot;The Metamorphosis&quot; first (in this excellent Korngold translation) and to note one's immediate reactions to the text. Then, one can explore the other sections of this critical edition at one's leisure. Finally, one can re-read the text again. (&quot;The Metamorphosis&quot; is short enough that it can easily be read in one sitting.) <br />This Norton Critical Edition is highly recommended for inclusion in first-year university literature curriculae, as well as for AP high school English or World Literature courses. Franz Kafka was one of the literary geniuses of the twentieth century, and &quot;The Metamorphosis&quot; is an excellent introduction to his writings.	2000-10-01
US	52976897	RUTQUKFN5KJP0	0898158532	484348139	The Compleat Cockroach: A Comprehensive Guide to the Most Despised (And Least Understood) Creature on Earth	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Conquer your Blattariaphobia	&quot;The Complete Cockroach,&quot; by biologist David George Gordon, is an exceptional  reference on cockroaches: from etomology to popular culture. Two pages are devoted to &quot;Kafka on Cockroaches&quot;  (129-30); students  found this information useful when writing on &quot;The  Metamorphosis.&quot;	2000-07-30
US	52976897	R3H279PXVXOR8U	0395711460	438664290	The American Heritage Dictionary of the English Language, Third Edition: Print and CD-ROM Edition	Books	5	15	16	N	N	Wait for the new 4th edition of &quot;AHD&quot;	Unless one has an urgent need for &quot;The American Heritage Dictionary of the English Language,&quot; third edition, hardcover [ISBN: 0395448956 or ISBN: 0395711460], please wait until September 14, 2000, when the same  dictionary will come out in a fourth edition [ISBN: 0395825172]. Of course,  when I wrote the previous &quot;AHD&quot; review a few days ago, I did not  know a new edition was being issued so soon. <br />Another note: please do not  confuse &quot;The American Dictionary of the English Language&quot; with  the &quot;College&quot; version of the same dictionary, which is not as  good. If one wants a great dictionary on CD-Rom, then I recommend the  &quot;OED,&quot; second edition. I have the Mac version, (and I love it),  but I have to keep it as my &quot;resident&quot; CD-Rom for it to work.  Unless one is a matriculated English major, I do not imagine that one would  need a CD-Rom version.	2000-07-29
US	52976897	R14AMHLJWP6M9H	0198601735	69619018	The Oxford Dictionary of Quotations	Books	5	27	33	N	N	The Best Source for Quotations	&quot;The Oxford Dictionary of Quotations,&quot; 5th ed., sits on my crowded &quot;reference&quot; book shelf next to &quot;The American Heritage Dictionary of the English Language.&quot; I consult both books on  an almost daily basis. <br />Compared to &quot;Bartlett's,&quot; I find this  book to be modern, witty, organized, and original. Whether one is looking  for a perfect quote for an online &quot;profile&quot; or a quip for an oral  presentation,  this book of quotes will serve its reader well.	2000-07-29
US	52976897	RZHQ9NJSUMD88	0198601735	69619018	The Oxford Dictionary of Quotations	Books	5	0	0	N	N	The Best Source for Quotations	&quot;The Oxford Dictionary of Quotations,&quot; 5th ed., sits on my crowded &quot;reference&quot; book shelf next to &quot;The American Heritage Dictionary of the English Language.&quot; I consult both books on  an almost daily basis. <br />Compared to &quot;Bartlett's,&quot; I find this  book to be modern, witty, organized, and original. Whether one is looking  for a perfect quote for an online &quot;profile&quot; or a quip for an oral  presentation,  this book of quotes will serve its reader well.	2000-07-29
US	52976897	RKBYNIR48IXHD	0395711460	438664290	The American Heritage Dictionary of the English Language, Third Edition: Print and CD-ROM Edition	Books	5	24	25	N	N	The Best &quot;College&quot; Dictionary!	A  riddle: what book weighs 8.5 lbs., is read almost every day, but is never finished? Easy answer: &quot;The American Heritage Dictionary of the English Language,&quot; third edition (1996, 1992) [&quot;AHD&quot;]. <br />As  a teacher of first-year college English courses, I recommend this  dictionary to my students. It has large print; lists some synonyms; has  word history and usage notes; offers illustrations; shows proper  hyphenation, syllabification, and pronunciation of words. <br />For the rare  instance that a word is not found in the &quot;AHD,&quot;  I suggest that  students consult the library's copy of the &quot;Oxford English  Dictionary,&quot; second edition  [&quot;OED&quot;]. For classroom use, I  recommend the &quot;Oxford American Dictionary&quot; (1980), an inexpensive  paperback, which has some excellent, brief usage notes. <br />This dictionary  makes an excellent high school graduation present for the college-bound  student. It is also a good reference book for the home or office library.	2000-07-26
US	52976897	RXS2G0R7SKCA9	0375708413	498826779	House Of Sand And Fog	Books	4	14	15	N	N	Brilliant Characterizations	&quot;House of Sand and Fog,&quot; by Andre Dubus III (author of &quot;The Cagekeeper and Other Stories&quot; and &quot;Bluesman&quot;), is a compelling novel. Divided into two parts, &quot;House&quot; is a complex,  disturbing, and thought-provoking tragedy. <br />Dubus's brilliance at  characterization shines through this bleak and believable story. He climbs  inside his characters' heads to give readers a chance to feel what it is  like to be a recovering addict (Kathy Nicolo); what it is like to be first  and second generation immigrants in pursuit of the &quot;American  Dream&quot; (the Behrani family); what it is like to be an ordinary man  (Lester Burdon). <br />&quot;House&quot; is flawed; it is not perfectly  written or edited. But one can forgive these imperfections because of the  powerful emotions that Dubus can generate in his readers through his  storytelling. &quot;House&quot; is not a tragedy of Greek proportion; there  is no chorus of readers which will respond in uniformity to the  protagonists' or antagonists' moral claims. Rather, &quot;House&quot;  reminds one of a Kafkaesque travesty: a minor clerical error which  compounds itself into misfortune, mayhem, and murderous revenge. <br />Dubus  employs an experimental style of narration, with his deliberate shifting of  points of view. This narrative device manipulates the reader's response to  the characters, thereby creating, in the reader's mind a frustration of not  being able to &quot;solve&quot; the moral dilemma. (Tim O'Brien uses a  similar technique in his short novel, &quot;In the Lake of the  Woods.&quot;)  <br />I especially recommend this book to readers who like to  weigh and measure their responses; to writers of fiction who wish to learn  about characterization; to book discussion groups. Further, I recommend  that you explore the writings of this writer's  father, the late Andre  Dubus, especially &quot;Meditations from a Movable Chair&quot; and  &quot;Dancing After Hours.&quot;	2000-07-21
US	52976897	R2837X88RU42J1	0375502548	684734174	Omerta (Godfather, Book 3)	Books	5	25	30	N	N	Operation &quot;Omerta&quot;	A posthumous publication by a major literary figure presupposes these  questions in the reader's mind: Did this author write this book? If so, how  much of the book? Did this author receive any &quot;help&quot; in its  writing? If so, then what was the form of this &quot;help?&quot;<br />Without  doubt, master storyteller Mario Puzo has placed the capstone of his life's  work in &quot;Omerta,&quot; the final tale of the &quot;Godfather&quot;  saga. At first glance, &quot;Omerta&quot; appears to be a continuation of  the struggles between older and younger generations, between traditions of  Sicily and America, between alleged crime families and law enforcement  agencies. Early on, the story seems to collapse  on itself because the  narrator deprives the reader of the suspense of &quot;whodunit.&quot;  <br />Nevertheless, the Puzo &quot;signature&quot; of larger-than-life  characters is stamped on every page of &quot;Omerta.&quot; When Don  Raymonde, the Sicilian scion of the Aprile family, is murdered, his adopted  Sicilian son, Astorre Viola, steps up to enforce the Don's last wishes.  Astorre is confronted by Don Aprile's daughter, Nicole, a corporate  attorney who happens to oppose the death penalty. The &quot;no mercy&quot;  tenet of Don Aprile is counterbalanced by the &quot;mercy&quot; obtained by  Nicole Aprile through her pro bono work. <br />The text of &quot;Omerta&quot;  is threaded with imagery and aphorisms: &quot;. . . when one changes one's  country, one must always change one's hat.&quot; The usual cast of  characters appears, including Roman Catholic cardinals and priests. A close  reading of the text will reward one with glimpses of Puzo's dark humor.  Beyond his use of irony, one can sense  self-parody, which is a hallmark of  his inimitable style. <br />However, there are some textual clues in  &quot;Omerta&quot; which lead one to suspect that Puzo may have changed his  narrative style partway through the novel.  After the early revelation of  the &quot;shooters&quot; and their &quot;contractor,&quot; the novel takes  on an uncanny resemblance to a &quot;police procedural.&quot; Indeed, the  director of the Bureau asks, &quot;And how is our operation 'Omerta'?&quot;  Further, the frontispiece defines &quot;Omerta,&quot; using the &quot;World  Book Dictionary.&quot; A final quibble concerns the book cover, which is a  minimalist European-style design:  black letters shadowed onto a white  background, with an oval of metallic red to dot the &quot;i&quot; in  &quot;Mario.&quot; My question is: where is the written accent for  &quot;Omertà?&quot; Without &quot;reading&quot; too much into this  &quot;omission,&quot; nonetheless,  I do find it to be an appropriate  symbol of how &quot;[t]he great Dons had accomplished their goals and  blended gracefully into society . . .  &quot; (315). <br />Naturally, one  cannot read this book without envisioning the sights and sounds of  &quot;the movie&quot; and its &quot;soundtrack.&quot; Bravo, Signor Puzo e  mille grazie.	2000-07-10
US	52976897	R3CXJH65ODKQC0	039592720X	658159771	Interpreter of Maladies	Books	5	4	5	N	N	An Exquisite Collection	Jhumpa Lahiri shows mastery of the short story genre in her  &quot;Interpreter of Maladies.&quot; These nine stories narrate the experiences of brief encounters with displaced persons. The narrator  maintains distance from the characters and does not pass judgment on them.  But the reader is drawn into their lives through everyday details which  appeal to the senses. It is in this way that the narrator is the  interpreter of maladies of arranged marriages, loveless marriages, and the  lives of the  lovelorn and marginalized.    <br />Anyone who has lived in a  university town or   in a country not one's own will be familiar with the  feelings of alienation and loneliness that affect Lahiri's characters. Her  debut collection is being compared to other authors of Indian descent. But,  in my opinion, her work has echoes of Shirley Jackson.	2000-07-06
US	52976897	R1UCLRTMDG57BO	157322152X	621480145	The Forest for the Trees: An Editor's Advice to Writers	Books	5	1	1	N	N	'A Good Title is One That is Sold'	Betsy Lerner extracts and distills the essences of writers' and publishers' processes and puts them into book form with 'The Forest for the Trees: An Editor's Advice to Writers.' As she says, 'this is not a book about how to write.' Rather, it's a book about project management: seeing one's work from the perspective of a book editor and, by this means, guiding it from conception to completion. <br />The first half of this book perceptively profiles some personality traits and types that writers might recognize in themselves and others: <br />*'the ambivalent writer' or 'How do you stop trying to sound like Raymond Carver and find your own material and voice?' <BR>*'the natural,' to whom she counsels, 'Take heart, late bloomers. . . . even if you haven't written the great American whatever by forty, don't give up.'<BR>*'the wicked child,' to whom she advises, 'You must give yourself permission to tell.' <BR>*'the self-promoter' who might know that '[o]ften the best writers are mortified by their work and fear that it's only a matter of time before others see through them.'<BR>*'touching fire' or 'The only place you're likely to find more alcoholics than an AA meeting is a writing program.'<br />Her intention here seems to be one of consciousness-raising and validation. Next, in the second half, Ms. Lerner demystifies the book publishing process from an acquisitions editor's point of view. This section contains a colorful compendium of authorial dos and don'ts that would be useful for both writers and editors to know. She gives reassuring advice on how to deal with rejection because she says that 'no one suffers as much as the rejected writer.' She goes on to discuss what editors want, what writers want, and what publishers want. For published authors, Ms. Lerner offers tips on dealing with 'postpartum depression' and handing publicity, publicists, and the reading public. 'When all is said and done, there is nothing quite like seeing your book for the first time!'<br/>A bibliography is included, (which is actually a works cited), but no index. Highest recommendation.	2000-07-05
US	52976897	R1MYLDBXXIPU6M	0684870355	111234739	Stacking in Rivertown	Books	3	8	10	N	N	A Year in the Life of a Failed Suicide	Drawn by the noirish cover art of a nude lightly bound in red ribbon, one uncovers an insightful first novel in &quot;Stacking in Rivertown,&quot; by Barbara Bell.  This pageturner proves easy for the reader to follow despite  its flashbacks, name changes for the ex-prostitute protagonist, and  overworked metaphors. <br />From this cover, one might imagine that this novel  is about S/M; however, even though some of its &quot;plays,&quot; which are  &quot;directed&quot; by Ben, a  violent pimp, have a sadomasochistic tinge,  &quot;Stacking&quot; is more about the posttraumatic stress disorder of  Beth, a young woman who survives childhood sexual abuse and subsequent  torture by Ben and his minions.<br />Reading this story requires a willing  suspension of disbelief because many of the plot elements simply do not  make sense.   Nonetheless, the prose is lyrical in places, and there are  some scenes that are very humorous.	2000-07-04
US	52976897	R1T673FDHREK2M	0060196122	622943913	Veronika Decides to Die	Books	2	14	17	N	N	Failed Suicide; Failed Storytelling	Beginning with his novel's intriguing title, &quot;Veronika Decides to Die,&quot; Brazilian author Paulo Coelho, promises something he does not deliver. As Veronika fails as a suicide, so does this parable of madness  fail as a narrative. Rhetorical devices abound in this contrived comedy of  errors: irony, interior monologue, metaphor. <br />For followers of the  writings of Che and Camus, who may view the choice of suicide as   revolutionary, political, and existential act, Veronika  not only fails but  also reawakens as an artist for whom the personal is apolitical. For fans  of Sylvia Plath's &quot;The Bell  Jar,&quot; Veronika's angst  may not ring  true. For  fun-seeking free spirits who love Ken Kesey's &quot;One Flew  Over the Cuckoo Nest,&quot; the sane/insane reversals of society/mental  asylum may dull in comparison. Nonetheless, this book does have appeal as a  fairy tale. <br />Rather than Veronika, the most interesting character is Dr.  Igor, a    psychiatrist who views the mental institution as &quot;Skinner  box.&quot; Through him, in but one of his numerous ironies, Coelho presents  his exposition of &quot;doctor playing God,&quot; or &quot;God as  puppeteer.&quot; However, Coelho's hagiography, replete with tortured  rendition of Mary as second Eve, reveals his lack of iconographic insight.	2000-07-03
US	52976897	R3LV5ODRLSA5P8	158234082X	24249899	Kitchen Confidential: Adventures in the Culinary Underbelly	Books	4	6	7	N	N	Wiilling Suspension of Dish Belief	Tony Bourdain, the Keith Richards of the culinary world, has written an entertaining and shocking &quot;dish&quot; book in &quot;Kitchen Confidential: Adventures in the Culinary Underbelly.&quot; With the advent  of armchair adventures of food television, Americans are glamorizing the  chef as cult hero. Bourdain takes the reader behind &quot;the line&quot; to  show that cooking is not pretty. While this book will not scandalize the  New York restaurant business as did Upton Sinclair's &quot;The Jungle&quot;  for the Chicago meatpacking industry, it will give pause to those who are  willing to look past his &quot;raw&quot; presentation to discover his  satiric &quot;bite.&quot;<br />As a long time vegetarian, I am a member of one  of Bourdain's &quot;hate groups,&quot; but,  oddly enough,  his  &quot;forking&quot; did not offend me. As he says himself, this book is a  &quot;rant,&quot; which I hope is a but a preface for a second book in  which he will find further courage to fling open the back doors of more hot  kitchens.  <br />An aside for female readers: yes, this book is phallocentric,  but so is the world which Chef Bourdain describes. At times, I found the  language of the kitchen to be appalling, but that is the reality of what  one does not hear from the &quot;four top.&quot; Read this book and learn  from him!	2000-06-28
