US	52974863	R2WBEHLI22TLLB	1878825038	141741796	The  Prosperous Few and the Restless Many (The Real Story Series)	Books	1	25	59	N	N	Unilluminating and ephemeral	This pamphlet comprises interviews with Chomsky from the early 1990s. They are not probing, and the subject matter is dated. It is not an illuminating read. No assumption or statement of Chomsky's is debated or challenged; the typical formulation of the interviewer Barsamian's contributions is \\"I'd like you to comment on...\\", rather than \\"your judgement must contend with this piece of countervailing evidence\\". <br />Barsamian starts with economics. Chomsky cannot let up on the notion that when a company establishes a plant in another country it is \\"exporting jobs\\". No international economist would agree; so far from \\"undercut[ting] opportunities for productive labor at home\\", as Chomsky puts it, the US has created 50 million new jobs since 1970. Chomsky makes what is commonly known as the 'lump of labour fallacy', believing that there is a fixed amount of jobs that trade redistributes, whereas in reality an open economy is able to redistribute factors of production from lower-valued to higher-valued goods and services. Likewise Chomsky inveighs against GATT (now the World Trade Organisation) and the North American Free Trade Agreement, but misunderstands their rationale. It is wrong, and has been shown to be wrong, to say that \\"NAFTA will very likely be quite harmful for American workers too. We may lose hundreds of thousands of jobs.\\" Trade has little effect on aggregate employment; it merely shifts employment between sectors. The economic argument for trade - that the consequent ability to specialise will enhance productivity - is not addressed by Chomsky, who prefers to level charges of nefarious intent against free traders.<br />Turning to politics, Chomsky returns to his theme of the alleged imperialist designs of the United States. He continually makes judgements that are supposed to be taken on trust but demand scrutiny. He declares, for example, that \\"the military budget is mainly for intervention. In fact, even strategic nuclear forces were basically for intervention.\\" Really? Where has the US \\"intervened\\" with strategic nuclear weapons since 1945? The rationale of US strategic nuclear forces is to deter a strategic nuclear attack on the American mainland. Chomsky appears to be merely declaring with rhetorical flourishes his disapproval of American military intervention. Ironically, his lambasting of all such intervention prevents him from analysing important developments in American policy over the last 20 years. He condemns the Reagan administration for intervening in Grenada (\\"it turned into a complete disaster\\", which apparently is how Chomsky sees the restoration of democracy), yet fails to note how cautious Reagan was in projecting American power compared with his successors. Chomsky is not propounding a history of US foreign policy, but he ought in fairness to deal with its complexities rather than merely make bald generalisations.<br />The discussion then takes a turn that has to be read to be believed: a chapter nominally about Yugoslavia makes accusations against Chomsky's domestic critics that, to say the least, require rather extensive evidence if they are to be sustained. Chomsky attributes to \\"the right wing in the West\\" support for Serb aggression. His evidence for this thesis is hardly careful or extensive: it consists solely of a letter to The Economist from a well-known eccentric Serb apologist. Chomsky pays no attention to rather better-known sources, such as Margaret Thatcher or Jeane Kirkpatrick, who called at an early stage for support for Bosnia. Ironically, the case against other western conservatives over Bosnia - namely that a pessimism about the limits of politics prevented them from acting sooner against Serb imperialism - is not available to Chomsky, who in this booklet repeats exactly their 'realist' arguments: \\"You have to ask about the consequences, and they could be quite complex.... It's not so simple.\\" <br />The book gets worse. Chomsky casually describes the historian Angelo Codevilla as propounding an argument about the effects of colonialism that is \\"so low you'd have to go to the Nazi archives\\" to find something comparable. Comment on Chomsky's rhetorical trope is unnecessary. Chomsky instead extends his approval for exposing official deceit to, of all people, the Nobel laureate Rigoberta Menchu. Those who have read David Stoll's book on Miss Menchu will appreciate the irony here.<br />Chomsky next turns to decrying the society he lives in. He depicts the United States as a haven for ubiquitous and influential religious fundamentalism. The trouble is, he once again cites no data and considers no countervailing evidence. The US does indeed strike the outside observer as unusual in its extensive civic professions of religious conviction, but the crucial question for a democratic polity is not its citizens' beliefs in origins and eschatology but whether those beliefs are separated from political practice. The subtlety of this question is not considered in Chomsky's ex cathedra assertion that \\"we could move back to real pre-Enlightenment times\\" - a particularly tendentious remark when read in 2002, not long after the US has managed to move one society, Afghanistan, firmly out of pre-Enlightenment times.<br />The booklet concludes with a section entitled 'Outside the Pale of Intellectual Responsibility'. The words are apparently a description of Chomsky by Martin Peretz, and Barsamian implicitly invites the reader to be shocked that so damning a judgement could be uttered of so upright a man as Chomsky. But then Chomsky discloses something remarkable. He complains that the New York Times doesn't always print his letters, and reveals that on at least one occasion, and possibly more, \\"I contacted a friend inside, who was able to put enough pressure on so they ran the letter.\\" Read that statement again. On Chomsky's own account, he used personal connections in order to gain access to newspaper columns reserved for the public, rather than allowing his arguments to be considered on their merits. So far as I am aware, this aspect of Chomsky's political activism has received little comment, and it deserves to be better-known.	2002-11-19
US	52974863	RTIIGWJI70HLX	1878825011	839698892	What Uncle Sam Really Wants (The Real Story Series)	Books	1	40	75	N	N	Lacks substance, data and context	This booklet ostensibly runs around four areas: the alleged goals of US foreign policy; the 'devastation' the US is supposed to have wreaked thereby; what Chomsky calls 'brainwashing at home' (i.e. the fact that Americans overwhelmingly disagree with Chomsky's political opinions); and 'the future'. Unfortunately, whereas the course for scholarly historians is to propound a falsifiable thesis by assembling evidence, Chomsky in this book resorts frequently to unsupported assertion and omission of relevant data.<br />In their 'forward' [sic], the editors remark that those who admire America's role in defending democracy will \\"find much of what you read in this book incredible\\". Couldn't have put it better myself. Chomsky begins with an account of the Cold War that reads as history would have been written if the wrong side had won. Echoing the language of Soviet diplomacy, he refers, incredibly, to 'the US-Nazi alliance'. He depicts US post-war strategy as \\"hard-line extreme, you have documents like National Security Council Memorandum 68 (1950)\\" - as if this document were a malign and unprovoked declaration of aggression. Extraordinarily, Stalin appears nowhere in Chomsky's discussion, yet his actions and attitudes were the key to America's reluctantly committing men and materiel to a decades-long struggle to contain Communist totalitarianism. Chomsky fails to mention that President Truman, a fiscal conservative who balked at the idea of tripling the defence budget as envisaged under NSC-68, had initially rejected the document's recommendations. The reason Truman changed his mind was Stalin's aggression in launching the Korean War. Chomsky's is, by any objective standards, a partial and misleading account of post-war US diplomacy. (Chomsky compounds this characteristic by taking out of context a quotation by George Kennan, from Policy Planning Study 23, that supposedly demonstrates US concern to perpetuate global inequality. In the original document, Kennan is in factmaking a separate and reasonable point that US security operates under certain constraints.)<br />Having started in such a vein, the book becomes no more reliable as it proceeds. Chomsky declares, while citing no evidence whatsoever, that \\"nobody in the corporate world or government takes free trade seriously\\". The very best one can say about such rhetoric is that it involves an unfalsifiable assertion: I have some experience of \\"the corporate world\\", and I can assure Chomsky that I take free trade very seriously indeed, on the demonstrable evidence that it enhances living standards globally. If Chomsky's blanket assertion is to be believed, then I am presumably either lying in this review or deceiving myself; either might in principle be true, but it is incumbent on Chomsky to demonstrate such conclusions rather than merely assert them.<br />Chomsky proceeds with what is not even a caricature of US foreign policy, for a caricature would at least have a recognisable grain of accuracy contained within it. He presents US foreign policy as \\"tolerat[ing] social reform only when the rights of labor are suppressed and the climate for foreign investment is preserved\\". This is a fine example of Chomsky's method. What does he mean by 'tolerate'? Does he mean 'allow to continue without external hindrance'? If so, why between 1985 and 1990 did the US stand by and watch the far-Left President of Peru, Alan Garcia, systematically wreck his country's economy with two million per cent inflation, the bankrupting of public reserves and the nationalisation of private banks? Does Chomsky instead mean merely 'agree with' - in which case why is the US presumed to have no legitimate viewpoints in foreign policy? Chomsky does not say. He claims that studies show a \\"correlation between torture and US aid and provide the explanation: both correlate with improving the climate for business\\". He cites no evidence and gives no sources for this charge, which is sharply at odds with the history of US aid in Latin America (torture and violence in Guatemala in the 1970s and 1980s were negatively correlated with US aid in the region - which is to say, President Carter's human rights policy showed a concern exactly opposite to what Chomsky claims as the basis of US foreign policy, and it didn't have the effect that Carter wished). But even if we accept this claim at face value, it is not generated by Chomsky's premise. Correlation does not indicate causality: both time-series should be joint covariance-stationary. This might seem a pedantic observation about what is, after all, merely a political pamphlet, but Chomsky is cited by the editors as a scholarly authority, and it is therefore worth pointing out some of the straightforward analytical flaws that this work contains. <br />Such weaknesses appear again and again as Chomsky levels unsubstantiated accusations against America. He asserts that \\"a tyrant crosses the line from friend to villain when he commits the crime of independence\\". Really? The US was sympathetic to the Sandinista revolution in Nicaragua in 1979 precisely because it did promise independence; that view was revised only when it became clear that the Sandinistas' distinctive characteristic was not independence at all, but subservience to Leninist principles of arbitrary despotism. Again: \\"The US wasn't upholding any high principle in the Gulf.\\" What about the principle that small nations shouldn't be annexed and pillaged by large bellicose ones? Chomsky might believe the US was insincere in its stated objectives, but that stated objective was certainly upheld. The most priceless assertion in the book is, for my money, Chomsky's insistence that \\"the US has very little popular support for its goals in the Third World\\". Anyone who recalls the television pictures in December 2001 of the residents of Kabul crying with joy at the fulfilment of the US goal of toppling the Taliban might reasonably wonder at the quality of the research that has gone into this book. As Chomsky concludes the book with the rallying cry \\"You can also do your own research\\", one can only hope that his readers will show him how it's done.	2002-11-18
US	52974863	R1FMMWPRKLQA2H	0962883883	953442900	Chronicles of Dissent: Interviews with David Barsamian	Books	1	10	43	N	N	Long on indignation, short on inquiry	This book comprises a series of interviews conducted with Noam Chomsky from the late 1970s through to aftermath of the Gulf War. In a sentimental introduction, Alexander Cockburn states that \\"Chomsky's greatest virtue is that his fundamental message is a simple one\\". Chomsky's message is indeed simple, though I am not sure that this should necessarily be counted a virtue rather than a debilitating weakness: the book is testament to a single animating principle, namely the excoriation of western democracies, without so much as a pretence of considering countervailing evidence. The interviews are in fact more properly characterised as a set of deferential supplications where no source is referenced by Chomsky and no assertion is challenged by his interlocutors. This is rarely a path to enlightenment. <br />The first interview is nominally devoted to Chomsky's academic specialism, linguistics, but the reader should prepare for disappointment. In reality it comprises only Chomsky's traditional complaints against America and Israel - and that forms the substance of the whole book. But if the complaints are traditional, the manner of their exposition becomes increasingly and unimpressively strident. Chomsky declares that, mirabile dictu, \\"There is such a thing as international terrorism.\\" And who is a principal progenitor of terrorism? Why, \\"the United States is one of the main sponsors of it\\", of course. Chomsky neither defines his terms nor gives any evidence for this judgement save for complaining at US efforts in the 1960s - early in the 1960s, for the missile crisis initiated by Khrushchev secured the tacit renunciation of such efforts - to overthrow Castro's dictatorship in Cuba. Now, there are strictly pragmatic arguments for allowing Castro to oppress and impoverish Cuba's people without external hindrance, but it is difficult to see any ethical reason to do so, for in no sense could the people under such a system be said to be exercising self-determination. Moreover, given that Castro was a strong advocate during the Cuban Missile Crisis of launching a nuclear first strike against the US (on 26 October 1962 he sent a cable to Khrushchev urging such an \\"act of legitimate defence, however harsh and terrible the solution would be\\"), there genuinely was a clear case for US preventive war against his regime. Yet Chomsky, with apparent indifference to these geo-political realities, damns US actions as 'terrorism'. As often happens, the reader who lacks a historical background might be susceptible to this sort of rhetoric, but it does not withstand critical scrutiny and is far from the levels of scholarship that ought to be axiomatic for someone in Chomsky's position. <br />The quality of analysis does not improve as the book goes on. Chomsky's insistent theme, as I say, is the supposed iniquities of Israel; he advances this notion with scant substantiation but a great deal of abuse. He condemns the Anti-Defamation League and Alan Dershowitz in terms that indicate a revealing defensiveness on his part (apparently they \\"defame and intimidate and silence people who criticise current Israeli policies\\" - an absurd charge given the well-known eagerness of Dershowitz to engage Israel's vituperative opponents in debate), but he goes far beyond the bounds of reasonable polemic when he describes the prosecutor of Adolf Eichmann, Gideon Hausner, as \\"us[ing] this terminology which is in fact rather reminiscent of Eichmann himself\\" (Hauser had apparently referred to the PLO, reasonably enough given its record of terrorism, as a cancer). He believes US support for Israel is founded on considerations purely of realpolitik, portraying Israel as a \\"strategic asset\\" for the US. Indeed, Israel is a strategic asset for the US, being the only state in the region to hold free elections and to have an independent judiciary, but there is more to it than that. Chomsky maintains all states have a common character - \\"they are instruments of power and violence, that's true of all states\\" - and thereby manages to miss the huge, qualitative difference between a liberal democracy like the US (or Great Britain, or Israel) and a totalitarian state like Iraq or Cuba. Certainly democratic states need to exercise force in their defence against terrorism, as Israel has had to do for decades, but that force is limited and accountable, rather than indiscriminate and aimed at civilians. These are rather basic questions of political sociology and history, and they receive literally no acknowledgement in this book.  <br />One surprising aspect of the book is that it refers to - if only to brush off - certain aspects of Chomsky's career that more than anything have damaged him in the eyes of former sympathisers. Barsamian refers to \\"your apologia for Nazi and Khmer Rouge genocide\\". Having thus been presented with a convenient straw man to knock down, Chomsky waxes indignant about these charges. The problem is that no one has ever made them. The particular comments of Chomsky that earned him notoriety were an indulgent description of the views of a Holocaust denier, Robert Faurisson, not (as Chomsky claims here) a defence of free speech, and attempts to discredit the accounts by Cambodian refugees of Khmer Rouge genocide - which accounts were in fact horribly accurate. <br />There is much else in this book, but it rarely rises above the level of calling other people names. Many of those Chomsky disapproves of are designated 'racist'. Abba Eban, former Foreign Minister of Israel, is apparently a racist for making the unexceptionable and irrefutable judgement that the Palestinian leadership, which has three times rejected the offer of a Palestinian state alongside Israel, has 'never missed an opportunity to miss an opportunity'. The New Republic, a bastion of American liberalism, is of course 'outright racist' - apparently because it disagrees with Chomsky's denigration of Israel. A Christian religious broadcast is 'typical of a racistculture'. To begin with, the effect of this sort of stuff is comic, but after a while merely becomes banal. Like the book itself.	2002-10-15
US	52974863	RH8X8VJPLVXQT	039471248X	743259855	Peace in the Middle East?: Reflections on justice and nationhood	Books	1	12	35	N	N	Speculative scheme of an imaginary movement	In his 1992 collection of interviews Chronicles of Dissent, Noam Chomsky declared, of the Arab-Israeli conflict, that a two-state settlement was \\"the only realistic political settlement, for the time being, in the past ten or twelve years\\". It's fortunate that he inserted that chronological rider, for it is a matter of record that twelve years before he gave that interview (which was conducted in 1986) he was virulently opposing any such arrangement. This book, published in 1974 and long out of print, is the evidence. In it, Chomsky proposes \\"some form of socialist bi-nationalism ... supported by an international socialist movement that does not now exist\\" as the proper political arrangement in Israel and the disputed territories.<br />This scheme requires an element of explication: Chomsky here seriously proposes not only an entirely speculative socialist order, but also the abolition of the Jewish state. He makes the right of Jewish self-determination subsidiary to his own ideological views, whether or not anyone else - specifically any Jew or Arab living in the region - happens to agree with them. It could be argued that, by proposing bi-nationalism, Chomsky is opposing the state rather than Jewish nationalism as such. But that is not the position advanced in this book. Rather, Chomsky argues that a specifically Jewish state incorporating a large Arab minority must be a denial of democracy. He thereby makes both a conceptual and a historical error. It is perfectly possible for a state to reflect a dominant culture and at the same time to be thoroughly democratic, provided that it guarantees and respects the civil and political liberties of minorities. That is precisely the position of constitutional democracies such as Great Britain and the United States, both of which have powerful undercurrents of civic nationalism allied to their democratic polities. Why should a Jewish state be any different merely on account of its being Jewish?<br />Chomsky does not vouchsafe an answer to this quite fundamental question: rather, he caricatures the animating philosophy of the Zionist movement in order to make it appear anti-Arab. To that end, he gives a tendentious account of the Biltmore Hotel conference of 1942, at which David Ben-Gurion and his Labour Zionists acknowledged that their previously inchoate agitation for a Jewish homeland had been superseded by the need for a Jewish state. Chomsky claims that this conference thereby elided the distinction between Ben-Gurion and his Revisionist adversary Jabotinsky. That is a remarkable attempt to rewrite the history of Zionism, given that the Zionist militia, the Haganah, was attempting at that moment to apprehend groups such as the Irgun. Chomsky makes no allowance for either the essentially liberal (and impeccably Wilsonian) argument for a Jewish state, or the exigencies of the position of Ben-Gurion and the Zionist movement in general. The British Mandatory authority was hardly sympathetic to Zionism, and indeed actively impeded Jewish immigration to Palestine; Western governments had closed their own borders to Jewish emigrants from Europe; and, of course, Nazi Germany was attempting to kill every Jew in Europe. For Chomsky to present the mainstream Zionist movement in those circumstances as somehow chauvinist for demanding a Jewish state - at any time but especially at that time - evidences poor historical judgement.<br />That is not merely a theoretical issue, for it carries damaging practical implications. It denies the very legitimacy of a Jewish state regardless of anything that state might do. Chomsky makes no reference to the security dilemmas of Ben-Gurion and the pioneers of the Jewish state as they struggled to defend themselves against Arab aggression and at the same time crack down on terrorism committed against Arabs by maverick Jewish fractions. Israel, in appallingly difficult circumstances, was attempting to build a democratic (and, incidentally, socialist) polity, which granted equal citizenship and full political rights to Arabs as well as Jews. There are many aspects of Israeli society that fall short of the ideals of its founders, but these have nothing to do with some inherent illegitimacy of the notion of Jewish nationalism. They are part of the human condition; the wonder is that Israel, having lived under a state of siege throughout her life, is so open a society. Chomsky nowhere gives credit for this fact, and instead proposes a scheme of bi-nationalism that, even at the time he wrote it, bore no relation to the views of the Israeli Left and was absolutely rejected by Israel's fiercely hostile neighbours. It is true that before the founding of Israel some Zionist thinkers, notably Martin Buber, advocated a bi-national state, but once the nascent Zionist movement took root in Palestine that option proved entirely incapable of fulfilment. There was, in short, no equivalent to Buber anywhere in the Arab world who favoured such a scheme.<br />I have criticised this book for its hostility to Jewish collective identity, but the lasting impression gained from reading it is of its political unreality. Chomsky unabashedly proposes the abolition of the Jewish state, and advances instead a proposal that \\"Palestinian Arab and Israeli have equal rights in the whole territory of Mandate Palestine\\". In short, the most extreme irredentist territorial claims of both sides come to fruition in a utopian political scheme - at precisely the time that Israel, the supposedly chauvinist state, was proposing territorial compromise with her neighbours under the Allon Plan! Chomsky's anti-Israel tergiversations are capable of various explanations, and there is one particularly obvious explanation for his opposition to the notion of a Jewish state; nonetheless, I don't think it's the right one in this case. Rather, Chomsky is here displaying what the philosopher Leszek Kolakowski has identified as the inherent totalitarianism of Marxism: the dream of a total unity, in which such particularist characteristics as nationhood are assumed to be evidence of `false consciousness'. Though this book is a forgotten part of Chomsky's oeuvre, it thus stands as a faithful expression of his ideology.which granted equal citizenship and full political rights to Arabs as well as Jews. There are many aspects of Israeli society that fall short of the ideals of its founders, but these have nothing to do with some inherent illegitimacy of the notion of Jewish nationalism. They are part of the human condition; the wonder is that Israel, having lived under a state of siege throughout her life, is so open a society. Chomsky nowhere gives credit for this fact, and instead proposes a scheme of bi-nationalism that, even at the time he wrote it, bore no relation to the views of the Israeli Left and was absolutely rejected by Israel's fiercely hostile neighbours. It is true that before the founding of Israel some Zionist thinkers, notably Martin Buber, advocated a bi-national state, but once the nascent Zionist movement took root in Palestine that option proved entirely incapable of fulfilment. There was, in short, no equivalent to Buber anywhere in the Arab world who favoured such a scheme. <br />I have criticised this book for its hostility to Jewish collective identity, but the lasting impression gained from reading it is of its political unreality. Chomsky unabashedly proposes the abolition of the Jewish state, and advances instead a proposal that \\"Palestinian Arab and Israeli have equal rights in the whole territory of Mandate Palestine\\". In short, the most extreme irredentist territorial claims of both sides come to fruition in a utopian political scheme - at precisely the time that Israel, the supposedly chauvinist state, was proposing territorial compromise with her neighbours under the Allon Plan! Chomsky's anti-Israel tergiversations are capable of various explanations, and there is one particularly obvious explanation for his opposition to the notion of a Jewish state; nonetheless, I don't think it's the right one in this case. Rather, Chomsky is here displaying what the philosopher Leszek Kolakowski has identified as the inherent totalitarianism of Marxism: the dream of a total unity, in which such particularist characteristics as nationhood are assumed to be evidence of `false consciousness'. Though this book is a forgotten part of Chomsky's oeuvre, it thus stands as a faithful expression of his ideology.	2002-08-12
US	52974863	R1OY8DK73TYHL5	1567510922	708943845	Class Warfare: Interviews with David Barsamian	Books	1	20	48	N	N	Unreferenced claims and unreliable judgements	This book comprises half a dozen extended interviews conducted in the mid-nineties with the polemicist Noam Chomsky by a radio producer, David Barsamian. Even admirers of Chomsky are likely to be dismayed by the lack of incisiveness of the questions. An interview does not have to be hostile or even argumentative to illuminate its subject's thinking, but Barsamian's questions and interjections go beyond mere sympathy with his subject's views. An example is \\"Are you looking forward to the summer at Wellfleet, on the Cape?\\" On receiving the answer \\"yes\\", Barsamian follows it up with, \\"And you get a little sailing and swimming in on the side?\\" (It turns out that Chomsky is agnostic on this supplementary question.) Lest I be accused of ill grace in subjecting pleasantries to criticism, I stress that these questions are representative of the tone of the book. Barsamian's typical formulation is not \\"a counterexample to your view would be X; how do you incorporate this into your explanation?\\" (as you would find in, say, Ramin Jahanbegloo's `Conversations with Isaiah Berlin', or Didier Enribon's `Looking for Answers: Conversations on Art and Science' conducted with Ernst Gombrich) but \\"what do you mean by Y?\\" This is not really interviewing at all, because the exchange goes one way only. No assertion or judgement of Chomsky's is challenged in the book, even as a device to draw out the complexities of a subject. In the first interview, for example, in denouncing the Reagan years, Chomsky declares - without offering any empirical evidence in favour of the proposition, let alone being asked for it - that since the 1980s there has been an \\"absolute reduction in standard of living for a majority of the population\\". In fact, there has been a steady increase in living standards in the US, in real as well as nominal terms, when you consider wages and salaries plus benefits (i.e. total compensation); the Council of Economic Advisors' annual `Economic Report to the President' containsa handy table showing this measure as an index.<br />Unfortunately, that particular factoid is by no means atypical of the book, which is generally unreliable in fact and interpretation. In the interview entitled `Rollback', Chomsky complains that \\"The very fact that the concept `anti-American' can exist - forget the way it's used - exhibits a totalitarian streak that's pretty dramatic.\\" Think about that for a moment. Leave aside the consideration that the term `anti-American' has a recognisable and precise meaning - reflexive and prejudiced opposition to anything and everything that the United States might do in order to preserve its interests, such as protecting her citizens from terrorism - and consider the cognitive aspect of Chomsky's remark. Surely, the reader will ask, Chomsky cannot be saying that merely thinking about an abstract quality is totalitarian; yet I cannot think of any other way to interpret this extraordinary remark, especially given that Chomsky explicitly enjoins us to ignore practical applications<br />A diffuse interview follows on \\"History and Memory\\", a title that apparently alludes to what Chomsky can recall from some decades back. Evidently his recall is uncertain, for he states that \\"my impression is that the Nagasaki bomb was basically an experiment\\". Again, think about that. Chomsky is here going way beyond the thesis, long debunked, of Gar Alperovitz that the bombings of Hiroshima and Nagasaki were intended as a political signal to deter the Soviet Union. He is claiming far more than the case expounded by revisionist historians that Harry Truman dropped the bomb without compelling military reason (though in fact the military arguments were strong and Truman's decision was eminently defensible to prevent mass killings of both Japanese civilians and American troops - see A.L. Hamby's biography of Truman, \\"Man of the People\\"). He is asserting that the US killed Japanese civilians on a whim. Chomsky states, as well he might, that \\"somebody ought to check this out, I'm not certain\\"; the critical reader might reasonably feel that to charge democratic leaders with crimes comparable to those of Josef Mengele but on a vaster scale requires a rather high degree of evidence. He will not find it here, and Chomsky allocates to others the task of assembling it.<br />So it goes on, with allegations and claims surprising only for their passionate intensity rather than their predictable content. Chomsky denounces Elia Kazan for his truthful testimony against Communist subterfuge in the film industry, and hails Lillian Hellman, whose account of Communist resistance to Nazism, dramatised in the film \\"Julia\\", has been shown to be untruthful (see William Wright's biography, \\"Lillian Hellman: The Image, The Woman\\"). In an interview on the Federal Reserve, Chomsky declares that the US economy conforms to Keynes's well-known warning about a country's capital development becoming \\"the by-product of a casino\\". Chomsky has unfortunately misunderstood this passage of \\"The General Theory\\". Keynes was concerned specifically about the sources of fixed capital investment; yet in advanced capitalist economies such as the US and the UK, it is very rare for to companies to finance their fixed capital investment from the capital markets. (The single exception to this rule is investment in premises, where the scarcity of land places a lower limit on the capital losses that may be sustained by a company.) Rather, they almost invariably finance it from shareholders' reserves. In the final interview, Chomsky turns his attention to his prolonged campaign against Israel. He asserts that, owing to supposed Israeli aggrandisement, \\"the issue of two states [i.e. a Palestinian state alongside Israel] is dead\\". Well, indeed it is dead, but its death has nothing to do with Israeli policy, which at Camp David and Taba offered the Palestine Authority a state with Jerusalem as its capital. As the world knows, Yasser Arafat responded with a campaign of violence and demagoguery - which is why we are where we are. <br />I am a charitable reviewer, but I am hard-pressed to find redeeming features of this book. It contains no references and scant substantiation for judgements that are at best questionable. I cannot recommend it.	2002-08-08
US	52974863	R1O9YMTN452RBI	1859843239	513688777	The Holocaust Industry: Reflections on the Exploitation of Jewish Suffering	Books	1	89	301	N	N	A highly familiar ideological bent	One of the two central facts of Jewish life in the 20th century was the almost unfathomable suffering of the Holocaust. The moral enormity of that crime has posed the terrible dual responsibility on Jews specifically and civilised people generally of commemorating the dead and protecting future generations from the awful consequences of anti-Semitic bigotry. Sometimes (I can think of certain exhibitions at the Holocaust museum in Washington) the attempt to meet that historical obligation has failed by descending into kitsch. As the historian Lucy Dawidowicz observed, considering the Holocaust presents the perennial temptation to indulge in inappropriate analogy (e.g. the appalling history of slavery and racial segregation in the United States: a monstrous evil but not an act of genocide).<br />There is much that could be written about the difficulties of discharging this moral obligation to past and future generations, and the diverse answers that Jews and others of goodwill have given. But to attempt such an account demands of a writer moral imagination, sensitivity and historical awareness. it is an understatement to say that Finkelstein's polemic does not exhibit these qualities. It is intemperate, abusive, obtuse - and at times astonishingly sentimental. Rather than provide historical or ethical insight into the Holocaust, Finkelstein prefers to mock and exploit the Jewish dilemma of how to make new generations aware of it. He derides historians of the Holocaust as \\"worthless\\" purveyors of \\"shelves upon shelves of shlock\\". Their efforts in commemorating the Holocaust are, in Finkelstein's judgement, also \\"worthless, a tribute not to Jewish suffering but to Jewish aggrandisement\\". The Nobel laureate Elie Wiesel, a moral giant of our times, is denounced as a \\"charlatan\\" who has a \\"shameful record of apologetics on behalf of Israel\\".<br />And there, in that last judgement, lies the nub of Finkelstein's rhetoric. His book is not a sociological or historical inquiry about the Holocaust at all: it is a means of propounding his own far-Left politics. By denouncing what he perceives to be a \\"Holocaust industry\\" - supposedly a racket that preys upon the generosity of European nations to extract wealth and gain influence - Finkelstein exemplifies an ideology that is eerily familiar. It has its roots in the 1930s, when the French Communist leader Jacques Doriot founded his Parti Populaire Francais, which aimed to preserve France from Jewish influence, and it extends to the anti-Zionism of the totalitarian Left today.<br />Quite apart from its dubious politics, Finkelstein's thesis is consistently unreliable in its historical judgements. The immediate post-war period was very far from being a favourable one for the Jewish national movement or for the development of a supposed (and I invoke Finkelstein's language reluctantly) \\"Holocaust industry\\". There was certainly no wave of sympathy for the Jews. Those western statesmen who were instinctively sympathetic to the Jews, such as Harry Truman, felt vindicated, but Ernest Bevin, who as British Foreign Secretary inherited the Palestine mandate, was frankly hostile to the cause of Zionism. More to the point, Jews had become so traumatised by the terrible events of the war years that it took years for Jewish communities to examine in any systematic way the sufferings that they and their families had undergone. For Finkelstein to malign this painful process as a politically-inspired act of mawkishness is a device that, for this reader at least, brings to mind the famous remark of Joseph Welch to Senator McCarthy in the darkest days of wild accusations made against decent men: \\"Have you no sense of decency, sir? At long last, have you left no sense of decency?\\"y about the Holocaust at all: it is a means of propounding his own far-Left politics. By denouncing what he perceives to be a \\"Holocaust industry\\" - supposedly a racket that preys upon the generosity of European nations to extract wealth and gain influence - Finkelstein exemplifies an ideology that is eerily familiar. It has its roots in the 1930s, when the French Communist leader Jacques Doriot founded his Parti Populaire Francais, which aimed to preserve France from Jewish influence, and it extends to the anti-Zionism of the totalitarian Left today. <br />Quite apart from its dubious politics, Finkelstein's thesis is consistently unreliable in its historical judgements. The immediate post-war period was very far from being a favourable one for the Jewish national movement or for the development of a supposed (and I invoke Finkelstein's language reluctantly) \\"Holocaust industry\\". There was certainly no wave of sympathy for the Jews. Those western statesmen who were instinctively sympathetic to the Jews, such as Harry Truman, felt vindicated, but Ernest Bevin, who as British Foreign Secretary inherited the Palestine mandate, was frankly hostile to the cause of Zionism. More to the point, Jews had become so traumatised by the terrible events of the war years that it took years for Jewish communities to examine in any systematic way the sufferings that they and their families had undergone. For Finkelstein to malign this painful process as a politically-inspired act of mawkishness is a device that, for this reader at least, brings to mind the famous remark of Joseph Welch to Senator McCarthy in the darkest days of wild accusations made against decent men: \\"Have you no sense of decency, sir? At long last, have you left no sense of decency?\\"	2002-07-26
US	52974863	R2O65VJTYR9RG6	1888363827	241379899	Profit Over People: Neoliberalism & Global Order	Books	1	96	273	N	N	A poor treatment of complex global issues	In this polemic Chomsky attacks `neo-liberalism' in international political economy. To that effect, he damns every supranational economic organisation and agreement that he can think of (the IMF, the World Bank, the World Trade Organisation, NAFTA, MAI etc.), charging them with being the agents or instruments of US multinational corporations intent on pillaging the Third World, despoiling the environment, and various other sins. The book is not so much an argument as an expostulation; and it is undermined at almost every turn by extravagant rhetoric and weak reasoning.<br />International political economy is - like all economics - a discipline about trade-offs and the assessment of costs and benefits. There are various criticisms that can plausibly be levelled at all of the bodies or treaties that Chomsky fulminates against, but it is important in formulating them to have a mind to what these institutions or agreements are designed for. To put mildly, the targets Chomsky denounces are not the same thing and do not pursue the same ends. It serves no purpose and does violence to critical inquiry merely to denounce them all as agents of US big business and of free-market fanaticism. The IMF, for example - a prime villain in Chomsky's account - has received much criticism from the school of free market economists that Chomsky believes it represents. These economists (see, for example, Money and the Nation State, edited by Kevin Dowd & Richard Timberlake, and published by the libertarian Independent Institute in 1998) charge the IMF with creating `moral hazard' in international lending, and wish to see the institution abolished. A different view, which I hold, is that the IMF performs a valuable service in allowing troubled economies a breathing space to sort out their difficulties, as was clearly the case with the `tequila crisis' in Mexico in 1994-5, and in fact ought to be more active in its prescriptions than it has been - consider the case of Argentina's ruinous currency peg, which the IMF was highly sceptical of and ought to have stood out against. There is room for discussion and disagreement about how far the IMF should loosen conditionality for its loans (and I am something of a dove in this respect), but these are inevitable debates about how to make effective a necessary and valuable part of the global economy.<br />Similarly, the World Trade Organisation has nothing whatever to do with free-market fundamentalism or US big business: it is neither more nor less than a commercial court that tries to eliminate discrimination on grounds of nationality. It is a thoroughly progressive institution whose effectiveness is greatly in the interests of the developing world, as evidenced by its first major ruling when it upheld Venezuela's complaint against a US levy on foreign petroleum producers. The World Bank, which under its current management - much to my regret - has veered very far from the cause of globalisation, went to immense lengths to support Third World socialist projects (such as the `ujaama' projects of President Nyerere's Tanzania), with extremely bad results for the impoverished peoples of the countries concerned.<br />To subsume these differing institutions, aims and approaches into a catch-all damnation of the machinations of big business is neither a profound nor a reliable guide to the modern global economy. Quite how Chomsky reaches his conclusions is of some interest, however, for it indicates quite a lot about the economic reasoning of the anti-globalisation movement. In short, Chomsky just hasn't acquainted himself with the normative arguments and positive findings of those he attacks; this is just not good enough in a book that aims to scrutinise the global economic order, for economics is a rigorously technical and empirical discipline, and not a matter of opinion. I give just two instances if the book's deficiencies in this respect, but they could be multiplied at great length.<br />Chomsky attacks theadvocates of NAFTA, the North America Free Trade Agreement, for supposedly claiming the it would create jobs. In this, Chomsky has just not understood the point - a very fundamental one - about trade. The basic Ricardian argument for trade does not depend on its effect on aggregate employment (which is virtually unaffected by trade: what matters in the short run is the level of aggregate demand, and in the long run is the so-called NAIRU, or Non-Accelerating-Inflation Rate of Unemployment); trade raises not employment but living standards. The chronic poverty that has afflicted Third World nations like Tanzania under a policy of 'self-reliance' demonstrates the point.<br />My second instance of the weakness of this book's treatment of economics is Chomsky's throwaway reference to William Greider's anti-globalisation polemic One World, Ready or Not. The Greider thesis that Chomsky has latched on to is that there is excess supply in the global economy owing to workers' not receiving enough to buy the goods capitalism produces. This claim is absolutely untenable in theory and in practice: wages are not set abstractly, but are pinned to the marginal product of labour. To put it simply, an additional dollar of output must represent an additional dollar of income to someone. The only way the `excess supply' nostrum could hold is if you claim that the additional dollar of income goes to someone with a higher marginal propensity to save - and that conclusion requires a study of the facts. This book doesn't trouble with the facts, which are that savings rates in most industrial economies have been falling for years, while in the developing countries they have been growing less quickly than investment demand.<br />Enough already. Chomsky is not an international economist, and his book is depressingly short on empirical research and economic logic. Indeed the book is almost a logical fallacy itself, for it exemplifies the anthropomorphic fallacy that one may attribute personality - in this case a wicked and grasping avarice - to an abstraction, namely the `capitalist system'. At any rate, it is a poor book that does nothing to enhance its author's reputation in his chosen personal interest - far from his specialist field - of politics and economics.advocates of NAFTA, the North America Free Trade Agreement, for supposedly claiming the it would create jobs. In this, Chomsky has just not understood the point - a very fundamental one - about trade. The basic Ricardian argument for trade does not depend on its effect on aggregate employment (which is virtually unaffected by trade: what matters in the short run is the level of aggregate demand, and in the long run is the so-called NAIRU, or Non-Accelerating-Inflation Rate of Unemployment); trade raises not employment but living standards. The chronic poverty that has afflicted Third World nations like Tanzania under a policy of 'self-reliance' demonstrates the point.<br />My second instance of the weakness of this book's treatment of economics is Chomsky's throwaway reference to William Greider's anti-globalisation polemic One World, Ready or Not. The Greider thesis that Chomsky has latched on to is that there is excess supply in the global economy owing to workers' not receiving enough to buy the goods capitalism produces. This claim is absolutely untenable in theory and in practice: wages are not set abstractly, but are pinned to the marginal product of labour. To put it simply, an additional dollar of output must represent an additional dollar of income to someone. The only way the `excess supply' nostrum could hold is if you claim that the additional dollar of income goes to someone with a higher marginal propensity to save - and that conclusion requires a study of the facts. This book doesn't trouble with the facts, which are that savings rates in most industrial economies have been falling for years, while in the developing countries they have been growing less quickly than investment demand.<br />Enough already. Chomsky is not an international economist, and his book is depressingly short on empirical research and economic logic. Indeed the book is almost a logical fallacy itself, for it exemplifies the anthropomorphic fallacy that one may attribute personality - in this case a wicked and grasping avarice - to an abstraction, namely the `capitalist system'. At any rate, it is a poor book that does nothing to enhance its author's reputation in his chosen personal interest - far from his specialist field - of politics and economics.	2002-07-25
US	52974863	R2LVJF68PXT5JZ	0297814885	801805295	Renegades	Books	4	10	18	N	N	A well-told and overlooked story of venality and stupidity	This book tells the story of those few Englishmen who served the cause of Nazi Germany in the Second World War. I know of no other account of these shamed and shameful men (and one or two women); it is a little-known story, and Weale - who has done much research in the Public Records Office on matters of national security - tells it well. (I should add that, while the only edition of the book that appears on the Amazon web site is the original 1994 edition, a new and revised edition has lately been published in Great Britain, and is available from Amazon's UK site.)<br />The book begins with a useful historical account of the development of British Fascism, which was led by the former Labour Cabinet minister (and, before that, Conservative MP) Sir Oswald Mosley - sometimes thought to have been an economic visionary and great orator, but in fact a silly and unintelligent man with thuggish tendencies. It then discusses individual cases of Britons who served the Nazi cause, either as propagandists (notably William Joyce, who broadcast defeatist propaganda under the title 'Lord Haw-Haw') or as soldiers under the specifically British division of the SS, the Free Corps. Apart from Joyce, who was a ferocious and bitter anti-Semite, many of the men depicted appear more pathetic than sinister. This judgement especially applies to the dull and untalented POWs who turned to the Nazi cause but were in fact despised by their masters as much as they were reviled at home. The most perplexing case is of a scoundrel and waster called John Amery, who, extraordinarily, was the prodigal son of a British Cabinet Minister (an impeccable patriot and supporter of Churchill) Leo Amery.  John Amery clearly never got a grip in life, and lived in a haze of debauchery and drug abuse, constantly hounded by creditors.<br />Yet Weale makes it clear that no sympathy should be extended to these traitors. He tells of one young Englishman, Thomas Cooper, who was trapped in Germany as war was declared,had never travelled far from home, and who joined and stayed with the SS believing the alternative would have been a concentration camp. Yet there is clear and chilling circumstantial evidence that Cooper committed atrocities against Jews and even boasted about his actions.<br />The close of the book tells of the inevitable fate of these malcontents. Joyce and Amery were hanged as traitors, while others - among them a disgusting man called Eric Pleasants - continued to live out their days. The finale gives the reader an uneasy feeling. Amery was a traitor, but he was clearly mentally unfit to stand trial and should not have been hanged. The British traitors - even Joyce, who was too hardened a Nazi to be effective as a propagandist - were too incompetent and too few in number to do much damage to our side in the War. British Fascism was never such a threat to the war effort as were, say, pro-German isolationists in the US, who acted as a lobby against US entry into the war. But these men betrayed their country, a liberal democracy, and served the cause of evil; they were accessories to the most vile regime in recorded history. Their pathos should not overshadow their support for that cause. Weale gives an important, indeed unparalleled, account of this aspect of Britain's war, with extensive research and much detail.	2002-04-06
US	52974863	R9500M83BQLA4	1888363495	847698617	Media Control: The Spectacular Achievements of Propaganda (Open Media Pamphlet)	Books	1	50	127	N	N	Intemperate and inconsequential	This pamphlet ostensibly discusses the impact of the communications media in shaping people's views on public policy. The subject is an interesting but inconclusive area of sociology and political science, in which some useful work has been published in the past few years (for example, Benjamin Page's 'Who Deliberates?'). Most such work, in my judgement, exaggerates the media's importance as intermediaries in a deliberative democracy, but raises important questions about matters of selection bias and the framing of policy issues. Chomsky's polemic doesn't begin to approach, and doesn't appear to be familiar with, this body of work. It is short on analysis and long on abuse. Few readers are likely to gain insight from its melange of unsubstantiated assertion, unfalsifiable thesis and frequent resort to abuse. <br />The unfalsifiable thesis is the notion that the communications media are a consistent force for communicating the policy preferences of a homogeneous elite, thereby 'manufacturing consent' among the governed. As an analytical device, this is useless, for it precludes nothing and predicts nothing. In Great Britain, for example, most newspapers opposed military action in Kosovo in 1999, but Tony Blair went ahead anyway and won public respect for doing so. One can read Chomsky's pamphlet on alleged media control in vain for any insight into the ambiguous relationship among the executive, the press and the people that this incident illustrates. All one will find is a refusal to credit people's ability to judge public policies for themselves. <br />Chomsky is thus a consistent elitist in the mould of Herbert Marcuse, and the reader should be prepared. But even so, it is still a shock to see just how deep is the contempt expressed in this pamphlet for the citizenry of a liberal democracy. What can one make, for example, of the assertion, with its preposterous identification of public opinion with unthinking militarism, that during the Gulf War everybody 'goosestepped on command'? Even as hyperbole, this is gross condescension and hardly consistent with democratic precepts. Unfortunately there is no stopping the stream of vitriol directed at those who have the temerity to hold different views from Chomsky. He asserts, \\"no reason was given for going to war that could not be refuted by a literate teenager.\\" I can assure Chomsky that the 80% of us in the US and Great Britain who supported Operation Desert Storm are not automata and were perfectly capable of stating an overwhelming justification for going to war: we didn't wish to see an aggressive and expansionist tyranny succeed in annexing and plundering a neigbouring country, threaten Israel and the Arab states, and augment its weapons of mass destruction. Fortunately for world peace, our side ignored the prescriptions of the anti-war activists and defeated Iraq. But to Chomsky, if he loses the argument, there must be dark forces at work: the overwhelming public support freely and responsibly given to our leaders and armed forces was, in his judgement, \\"the hallmark of a totalitarian culture\\".<br />In his new book 'Public Intellectuals: A Study of Decline', Judge Richard Posner notes that \\"the enormous volume of Noam Chomsky's political writings ... has received little public attention, much of it derisory.\\" No one who has read 'Media Control' will be surprised by that information.	2002-02-08
US	52974863	R26ZZ0WNJ4V0HK	0226853047	221899823	The Verdi-Boito Correspondence	Books	5	9	11	N	N	A moving testament to friendship and musical genius	This superbly-annotated collection of more than 300 letters between Verdi and his librettist Arrigo Boito shows not only an insight into musical creativeness but also the workings of generous and selfless friendship. Boito invested an immense amount of time and effort in his own opera Mefistofele; as those who witnessed its revival at the English National Opera a few years ago will attest, it is a hack work that can only successfully be portrayed as parody. In these letters, Verdi is ceaselessly encouraging and interested in the work, though he must have known that it was not a work of art. For his part, Boito is touchingly appreciative of his colleague's talent - he habitually addresses Verdi as 'Dearest Maestro' - and in their exchanges the reader can gain a glimpse into the creative workings that, Wagner not withstanding, produced the finest body of 19th-century opera.<br />There is real spine to the work of Verdi and Boito: it encompasses politics, religion, pathos and tragedy. These letters are testament to the men's friendship and genius; it is a moving and important work, and I strongly recommend it.	2002-01-20
US	52974863	R2J4H60D8WNBI5	0312206828	498838348	The Whys of a Philosophical Scrivener	Books	4	4	6	N	N	Fitfully reliable but hugely enjoyable	Martin Gardner is a writer for whom the term 'polymath' could have been invented. His reach in this idiosyncratic statement of beliefs covers philosophy, theology, literature, mathematics, physics, politics, economics and literature, and the book is excellently-written. <br />Inevitably some of this material looks either dated (the book was first published almost 20 years ago) or fitfully reliable. The weakest sections deal with economics and politics, in which Gardner - who counts himself a 'democratic socialist' - doesn't really have any insights that are not truisms (e.g. marginal tax rates should be neither too low to raise revenue nor too high to discourage enterprise), and evidences scant awareness of the arguments of the Public Choice school of economics regarding government failure. <br />Other chapters of the book, covering such matters as why Gardner is a sceptic regarding the claims of the pseudo-science of parapsychology, or why he believes that there are objective standards of aesthetic excellence, are deft in construction and more convincing in argument. He veers off-course again, however, when his theological premises turn him to the fideism expounded by such thinkers as Kierkegaard and Miguel de Unamuno. Gardner maintains that the essence of our humanity is not the capacity to reason but the capacity to feel, and restates William James's adaptation of Pascal's 'Best Bet' argument for the existence of God. This is one area where I cannot follow Gardner, for it seems to me that his religious credo requires the abnegation of critical faculties, but perhaps for the religious believer who respects science and reason there is nothing more to be said than Gardner presents. It makes, however, for a frustrating target for those who happen not to share Gardner's conclusions.<br />The best part of the book for me is the author's literary enthusiasms. Gardner's judgements almost never let him down: he explains well his admiration for G.K.Chesterton and Emily Dickinson (with which I entirely concur), but does so less successfully with H.G.Wells (who, contrary to Gardner's protestations, was a dupe of Soviet Communism in the 1930s quite as much as, say, the Webbs and Bernard Shaw).<br />All in all, this is a thought-provoking book that no one else could have written.	2002-01-17
US	52974863	R1Z8ZPA0U3UT4Y	1893554058	383388943	Commies: A Journey Through the Old Left, the New Left and the Leftover Left	Books	5	35	41	N	N	A notable activist's progress	Ronald Radosh is a first-rate historian who has travelled a well-worn political path from the Marxist left to the heterogeneous coalition devoted to the defence of liberal democratic values and processes. There are some fine autobiographical accounts of that journey - which many of us have also taken - extant, most notably the 1950s collection The God That Failed; Radosh's book is a valuable and often moving modern example of this literature. <br />The early chapters of the book evoke a distant world of Communist youth camps and Jewish radicalism. The author's insights into the nature of the Communists' exploitation of these movements (for example, protesting against the supposed anti-Semitic 'frame-up' of the atomic espionage agents Julius and Ethel Rosenberg, while being silent over the ferocious anti-Semitic pogroms practised by the Soviet Union) make scandalous reading, while his account of the naivete of the 1960s counter-culture draws out the rather pathetic nihilism of that movement. But the story really gets going when Radosh depicts his gradual disillusionment with 'the Movement' from the early 1970s, dating from a trip he made to the prison-state of Cuba and continuing through his seminal research demonstrating the guilt of the Rosenbergs. His conclusion at the end of the book - articulating the premise of those who subscribe to Madisonian principles of deliberative democracy and thus who know that democratic politics can have no pre-defined 'end-state' - about the relative merits of western societies relative to the tyrannies that Marxism has always and everywhere established is so true, and so apt an epitaph on the bloody course of much 20th century history, as to be poignant. <br />There are minor quibbles to be had with the book. Radosh pays generous tribute to his editor, but there was no need: the book is peppered with mistakes that, while not serious, are certainly irritating and ought to have been picked up. (On more than one occasion the book spells 'minuscule' wrong; the notorious 1950s game-show cheat portrayed on film by Ralph Fiennes was Charles, not Mark, van Doren.) Overall, though, this is an excellent read.	2002-01-15
US	52974863	R21A2ECO9EH4N0	0847671593	140054316	Marxism and Beyond	Books	5	11	12	N	N	The intellectual legacy of an outstanding democrat	This collection of essays, published in 1983 (in the last decade of the author's life) serves as an apt summary of the philosopher Sidney Hook's intellectual legacy as America's pre-eminent scholar of Marxism. To the end of his long life, Hook never abandoned his belief that the essence of Marx's thought was alien to the monstrous totalitarian regimes that, for much of the twentieth century, bore his name. The principal long essay in this book aims to give a 'synoptic exposition' of Marx's thought, and is the finest - and certainly the clearest - such attempt I know. At the same time, Hook allied his respect for Marx's thought to a passionate belief in the defence of western liberal democratic values against Communist tyranny. This idiosyncratic combination informs almost every essay in this volume, which comprises philosophical treatments of Marx, some excoriating book reviews of those who overlook the moral imperative of a vigorous prosecution by the western democracies of the Cold War, and various expositions of Hook's own credo as an anti-Communist social democrat.<br />Inevitably the reader's estimate of the success of this set of arguments will depend on the degree to which he believes Hook succeeds in allying his sympathies for Marx with his anti-Communist principles. To my mind, Hook's attempt fails because he underestimates the extent to which Marx's notion of Communist society - a perfect social unity - is essentially, and not accidently, totalitarian. Hook reviews - highly favourably - in this volume the Polish philosopher Leszek Kolakowski's magnificent Main Currents of Marxism, but never really comes to grips with this insight that Kolakowski first articulated some 30 years ago. Nonetheless, Hook's courage and eloquence in defending western civilisation against Communist despotism are displayed at length in this book. There is a particularly fine review demolishing David Caute's tendentious attempt, in his book The Great Fear, to draw an analogy between Stalin's purges and McCarthy's denunciations: as Hook acidly comments, whereas McCarthyism produced an abridgement of civil liberties, Stalinism produced rivers of blood. As an exponent of a principled anti-Communism of the Left, Hook stands in the company of George Orwell and Arthur Koestler. This book is an apt testament to the qualities of intellectual honesty and a devotion the principles of a free society.Stalin's purges and McCarthy's denunciations: as Hook acidly comments, whereas McCarthyism produced an abridgement of civil liberties, Stalinism produced rivers of blood. As an exponent of a principled anti-Communism of the Left, Hook stands in the company of George Orwell and Arthur Koestler. This book is an apt testament to the qualities of intellectual honesty and a devotion the principles of a free society.	2002-01-14
US	52974863	R1XK3NHFW0XK7X	0295979623	419714991	Henry M. Jackson : A Life in Politics	Books	5	4	8	N	N	A model biography of a good man	Henry `Scoop' Jackson is rarely referred to in contemporary political debate. The American polity and indeed the western alliance are much the poorer for his absence. This is a fitting - indeed, a model - biography of a notable American patriot. <br />Senator Jackson represented a distinctive, honourable and above all prescient tradition in American politics: that of the liberal hawk. He was unfortunate, in respect of his presidential ambitions, to hold consistently to his pro-western principles at a time when the Democratic Party was abandoning (or at least, compromising) the staunchly anti-Communist tradition of Truman, Kennedy, Johnson and Humphrey. Rent asunder by the experience of Vietnam and the rise of the New Left, the Democrats polarised around Jackson, on the one hand, and the party's disastrous 1972 presidential nominee, George McGovern, on the other. Only because of Watergate - and even then, only by a whisker - did a Democrat win the White House in 1976, and his presidency proved to be the most ineffectual in living memory. <br />Kaufmann describes this political background with a sure touch. He is unflinchingly honest in his depiction of Jackson's personal flaws, such as periodic irascibility with aides, but the essential Jackson - a man of deep humanitarian impulses, evident in such causes as his campaign for persecuted Soviet Jewry, and searing moral insight into the nature of Communist totalitarianism - shines through. The book is a fine political biography, but also a most touching personal portrait. It depicts admirably and with fine insight the circle around Jackson, some of whom later held office in the Reagan administration. I was unaware, for example, that the common view that Jackson's adviser, Richard Perle, was responsible for Jackson's unwavering support for Israel has it exactly the wrong way round. In fact, Perle, a secular Jew, came to see the urgency of supporting Israel because of the influence of Jackson - a Niebuhrian Protestant whounderstood better than any post-war American politician the moral import of a liberal democracy's struggle for survival while assailed by totalitarian states and terrorist organisations. <br />Jackson has the biography he deserves; I hope it is widely read and studied.	2001-12-05
US	52974863	R1HI0VJWGUJZWE	026205065X	883073626	The Elusive Quest for Growth : Economists' Adventures and Misadventures in the Tropics	Books	5	45	50	N	N	Deft deflation of myths	This is surely the most important book published in the field of development economics for many years. The author, who is Senior Adviser to the Development Research Group at the World Bank, is highly familiar with economic theory and empirical research, and is able to expound his knowledge in an engaging and jargon-free manner. <br />Easterly's aim - in which he succeeds brilliantly - is to show the self-defeating nature of most conventional prescriptions for development, notably foreign aid, investment in technology, education, population control and debt forgiveness. Against all these chimeras - many, if not all, of which, are desirable in their own right in some circumstances - he poses the economic common sense of provision of incentives. The argument is complex but two of Easterley's observations are especially worth noting. <br />The professional (and almost always economically-untrained) development lobbyists are fond of arguing that what they tendentiously call the neo-liberal consensus ignores the poorest. Easterley demonstrates that this is untrue, citing the work of David Dollar and Aart Kray of the World Bank, who have found that global poverty is attributable, rather, to lack of growth. Using statistical techniques to isolate the direction of causation, these analysts find that a 1 per cent increase in per capita growth in the developing countries causes a 1 per cent rise in the incomes of the poor.<br />Secondly, debt cancellation has become a fashionable cause for development lobbyists and the Churches - unaware, apparently, that the idea has been tried for at least 20 years (I recall it very well from my time at the Debt and Capital Markets Group at the Bank of England in the 1980s) and has resulted in a self-perpetuating cycle of bad lending. Eaterley's proposal is to tie lending to past performance (i.e. good economic management) to give Third World governments an incentive to pursue growth-creating policies. The alernative - unconditional debt forgiveness - would damage Third World living standards by ensuring a rise in developing countries' cost of capital. Easterley does not spell it out, but affluent western campaigners' demanding a course of action that the Third World would end paying a high cost for is not the most edifying of spectacles.<br />This book puts paid to much self-serving nonsense. It is a rare gem in a quarry of dross.	2001-11-16
US	52974863	R208RKFA1C2YGF	0300040016	856639564	The Essential Reinhold Niebuhr: Selected Essays and Addresses	Books	5	90	99	N	N	Essential indeed	Niebuhr was not only one of the great Protestant theologians of the last century: he was one of very few thinkers ever to have derived a sophisticated and illuminating approach to the worldly order from theological premises. This collection of his writings contains some truly essential expressions of his philosophy, in the form of shorter essays and addresses.<br />The volume's consistent theme is the Augustinian realism that Niebuhr expounded in the darkest years of modern history, when the western democracies faced the tyrannies of Nazi Germany and expansionist Communism. Against these messianiac creeds, Niebuhr posited the merits of democracy, *not* because of its supposed congruence with the characteristics of the Kingdom of God but because of its effect in tempering the destructiveness of man's urge for dominion. <br />He did so, moreover, when many Christians were susceptible to the romantic illusion that discipleship required them to oppose the militant defence of western values. No one has better exposed these pretensions than Niebuhr in his essay 'Why the Christian Church is not Pacifist', included in this volume. Those Christians' mistake was to fail to understand the nature of evil. To regard the Sermon on the Mount as a manual for political action without seeing it in the context of Jesus's expectation of the irruption of the Kingdom of God into human history is a misreading. The message of the Gospels is not non-violence, but the immanence of the Kingdom. Niebuhr argues that while conflict is not part of the Kingdom of God, it does not thereby dissipate if Christians act as though they are already living in the Kingdom. <br />This is a powerful corrective to much wishful thinking that passes for Christian social ethics. It ought to be read urgently by anyone who imagines that the sentimentality of today's anti-war movement, when the western democracies are fighting an enemy as destructive and nihilistic as any seen in the last century, is an expressionof the Law of Love.	2001-11-08
US	52974863	R1FQF5QGLXFJ1M	0898702720	284723327	The Collected Works of G. K. Chesterton, Vol. 21: What I Saw in America / The Resurrection of Rome / Side Lights	Books	2	9	19	N	N	Deeply embarrassing for Chesterton admirers	Few writers of the last century deserve a more drastic upward revision in their reputations and popularity than Chesterton. His magnificent prose, humanity and gift for paradox shine through his writings. His account in this volume of American culture and society exemplifies these strengths, and is the reason for my awarding it a second star. Yet this volume also includes his worst book by a long way, namely his first-hand account of Italy under Mussolini. This book doesn't approach the mendacity of some starry-eyed intellectuals who travelled to the Potemkin Villages of the Soviet Union and came back with glowing accounts of happy and fulfilled proletarians - Shaw and the Webbs, Henry Wallace (Roosevelt's Vice-President), and their equivalents (Susan Sontag, Noam Chomsky) who travelled as political pilgrims to China, Vietnam, Cuba and Nicaragua more recently. But it is still indefensible, and we admirers of Chesterton will just have to admit it. The author is massively confused; he goes on for pages and pages skirting round the question of whether he's for or against the Fascists. I'm afraid he even explicitly commends to his readers' attention the system of Fascist Syndicalism in preference to capitalism (\\"[A] policy ... which is worthy of a sharp and close attention which it has hardly received. It is not Socialism; it is not Distributism; but it is distinguished and divided in a most startling manner from anything to which we are accustomed as Capitalism.\\") All in all, this volume shows us a good and gentle man out of his depth; I'm sorry the book is in print and cannot recommend it.	2001-08-30
US	52974863	R2Q63BFX6XXW4I	1860660738	484729668	Hugh Gaitskill	Books	5	3	3	N	N	First-rate biography of Labour's forgotten leader	Hugh Gaitskell was leader of the British Labour Party from 1955 till his tragic premature death in 1963. That period, in which Labour was continuously in opposition, was marked by internal strife between Right and Left within Labour's ranks, on such issues as nuclear disarmament, with Gaitskell representing the pro-Nato, Atlanticist wing of British social democracy.<BR>Brivati's book is a model biography: balanced, historically-informed, and original. It portrays Gaitskell as a politician of immovable convictions about the proper end-state of a good society, and fewer fixed ideas about the means to achieve them. Most important, it relates Gaitskell's ideas to the changes in western society that have taken place since his death, and tries to assess his historical significance. And it compares him with his obvious successor, Tony Blair, who succeeded where Gaitskell failed in getting Labour to jettison its historic commitment to public ownership. Brivati sympathetically portrays Gaitskell's revisionism, which was 30 years ahead of its time; his irrevocable commitment to the values of western liberal democracy, an instinct that led to his courageous and historically vindicated stand opposing unilateral nuclear disarmament; and his insights into the political implications of what was then known as the Common Market. But Brivati also makes a telling point that Gaitskell's belief in equality and indicative planning has been rendered largely irrelevant by modern economic developments. There are still aspects of Gaitskell's political judgement that are timeless strengths and that stand out from this book. Brivati comments, \\"Gaitskell's revisionism offered a process of asking of each institution and relationship in our society: What is it for? Who [sic] does it benefit? Should it be changed?\\" That process of interrogation is an essential one for a healthy democracy, even if Gaitskell's criteria for answering those questions have been superseded by events. Moreover, Gaitskell, so far from his image of a dry technocrat, was a man of passion combined with a critical intellect. Though the collectivist ideology that informed his egalitarian principles has now (as Brivati again rightly comments) slipped into history, the wish for a more tolerant and gentle society has not. To that extent, Brivati's book is an inspiring as well as a scholarly and informative read.	2001-08-30
US	52974863	R1XTAUMPYO5ZHX	1557861080	58809641	Portfolio Selection: Efficient Diversification of Investments	Books	5	27	30	N	N	A brilliant intellectual feat	While Markowitz is a name well-known in economics (joint winner of the Nobel Proze in 1990) and the investment industry, it is known hardly at all among the public. Perhaps this is the inevitable fate of a man well ahead of his time: Markowitz's work on the relationship of risk and return is truly one of the staggering intellectual achievements of modern economics, and has a great practical impact on people's economic welfare. This volume recapitulates his argument that risk is what drives return, rather than being (as was thought by earlier generations of money managers) merely an unfortunate by-product of the search for higher returns, that the portfolio dominates its constituent assets, and that the way to minimise risk for a given level of expected return is to minimise the covariance of returns of the assets within that portfolio using a quadratic programming algorithm. This is brilliant, seminal stuff, written with a liveliness usually lacking in economic texts.	2001-08-30
US	52974863	R2I2CVLM72MU4N	0070527601	970950877	The Prudent Investor's Guide to Beating Wall Street at Its Own Game	Books	5	10	11	N	N	One of a kind	There is a huge mismatch between what is known by finance professionals and academics, and the literature that is generally targeted at retail investors. Forty years after the economist James Tobin set out his Separation Theorem disposing of the 'interior decoration' approach to investment (a little bit of growth here, a value stock there, not forgetting some fun on technology stocks), financial advisers are still getting away with peddling truly outlandish and superstitious notions. (My personal favourite among these fallacies is the notion that 'dollar-cost averaging' is a sensible and risk-averse approach to investing. Exactly the opposite is true.)<BR>In short, investment advice aimed at the retail investor often does far more harm than good. This is one of the very few books aimed at retail investors that does more good than harm. Indeed, it does a lot of good, by explaining in a non-technical but non-patronising way the essentials of modern portfolio theory (a discipline that sees investment as a process of risk management rather than of 'picking winners'), and advises on cost-effective ways to put them into practice. Retail investors looking to make a killing on the stock market by day-trading should take a deep breath, forget everything they once believed, throw away all their market tip sheets, and buy this book instead. Among its many virtues, this book will ensure that they no longer *worry* about what the stock market does - the first step to getting a happy and fulfilled life. Strongly recommended.	2001-08-29
US	52974863	R39VU11KWNYVB4	0375701044	306877497	Personal History	Books	5	4	4	N	N	A fine, honest and moving memoir	This is one of the most astute and inspiring memoirs to have come from Washington in recent years. Mrs Graham recounts with an understatement that makes them all the more dignified and poignant the family tragedies in her life, and gives a riveting account of the decisions she took to maintain the integrity of a free press. Most obvious among these were her decisions as publisher of the Washington Post to run the Pentagon Papers and Watergate. The American press has frequently been attacked by partisans of the far Left and the far Right for supposedly being in the pay of the conspiracies that these paranoids claim to detect; Mrs Graham's building the Post into a fearless journal of record demonstrates how bizarre those prejudices are. What is most obvious from this memoir, however, is not the shifting sands of politics and journalism, but the strength of character of Mrs Graham. At a time when it was far less common to find professional women in the higher reaches of the professions than it is now, she withstood prejudice and condescension, and displayed an eminently practical answer to her critics: ability and determination. Her life and career are a credit to American public life, and this book is testament to her qualities.	2001-08-28
US	52974863	RZAQ5VYBWUT42	037550317X	389338120	When Genius Failed: The Rise and Fall of Long-Term Capital Management	Books	4	17	23	N	N	Absorbing account, flawed conclusions	Lowenstein's book traces the collapse of the hedge fund Long-Term Capital Management in 1998. It draws two cautionary lessons, one relating to financial markets and one more widely applicable to human affairs: first, there are inherent limits to the usefulness of models based on historical data; secondly, there are inherent limits to human intelligence ' even Nobel Prize-winning intelligence ' when it is not tempered by judgement. <br />Lowenstein maintains that LTCM's models had an excessively narrow concept of risk, interpreted as volatility around the mean. Historic volatility proved to be an inadequate guide ' and in the autumn of 1998, no guide at all ' to future volatility. He states that a more relevant measure of risk for LTCM, unacknowledged by its partners, was leverage: the position size was too big. In the autumn of 1998 - when Russia in effect defaulted on its sovereign debt, and markets in South-East Asia and Latin America crashed in short order ' markets became characterised by so-called 'contagion', which gave a new understanding of the risk of leverage. A highly-leveraged fund found that it could not count on being right (that is, on betting on mean reversion) eventually: it had to be right sufficiently, every day. If it was highly leveraged and its bets proved wrong, it would not be able to get to the long term. A fund could be illiquid and heavily exposed, or it could be leveraged; if it was both, it could be wiped out in a single day. This simple truth was the weakness at the heart of LTCM. The company's models indicated that they were unlikely to lose more than about $40 million on any given day; in two days, in August and September 1998, they lost more than $500 million on each day. <br />Lowenstein's account is fascinating; he focuses on the irony that LTCM's strategic rationale was the management of risk, yet in practice the company ended up speculating and lost. But this is where his argument goes awry. He argues that this experience 'betrayed the flaw at the very heart ' the very brain ' of modern finance'. Yet the evidence contained in the book suggests the opposite conclusion. <br />Modern finance teaches that you cannot earn 40% a year without some risk of losing a lot of money; LTCM's experience confirms that. Indeed, Lowenstein makes two further points that are perfectly consistent with modern finance. First, LTCM's weakness was not its strategic rationale or its models, but its management procedures: there was no independent check on the traders. Perversely, LTCM increased its leverage as spreads narrowed ' as if borrowing more would turn an unsound business into a better one rather than a still-riskier one. Secondly, while LTCM's diversification strategy ostensibly proved of little value, as markets crashed simultaneously, in fact the company's investments were less well-diversified in practice than in theory. LTCM had in effect taken the same bet ' on lower-rated bonds ' but done so in so many permutations as to give the illusion of diversification. Diversification it might have been; efficient it was not. The experience of LTCM should in no respect be taken as an indictment of the role of financial markets in allocating scarce resources to productive uses, or of modern financial theory - whose insight it confirms rather than refutes.	2001-08-28
US	52974863	R1UYES1FSXD1ME	048626551X	292919072	The Napoleon of Notting Hill (Dover Books on Literature and Drama)	Books	5	25	26	N	N	A wise and exuberant fantasy	Chesterton is one of the neglected giants of 20th-century English literature. This book ought to be considered a minor classic of both fantasy and political allegory. It tells the story of the consequences of a decree issued on a whim by a bored governor that London be devolved into districts corresponding roughly to its ancient boroughs, and each given municipal rituals in order to instil a sense of civic belonging. This joke takes on a life of its own, as the citizens of the \\"new\\" boroughs take the battle - eventually, literally a battle - to each other. The Napoleon of the title is Adam Wayne, an enthusiastic *citoyen* who takes the new arrangements with great seriousness - and whose territorial aggrandisement and downfall mirror Napoleon's career. The point that Chesterton intimates - in a vastly more effective, because more subtle, way than more explicitly political novelists, such as Upton Sinclair - is that small and knowable communities are a desirable and indeed virtuous focus of our loyalties, but that the aggrandisement of power and territorial ambition tend to corrupt. While fashionable literary opinion (Wells, Shaw, Wyndham Lewis and so many others) was about to take a terrible wrong turning in favour of the totalitarianism of Right or Left, Chesterton's essential and very English sense of moderation formed, and continues to express, a most effective and beautifully written counterpoint.	2001-08-24
US	52974863	R1US1OV9QL9G8S	0471188794	706783876	Investment Timing and the Business Cycle (Frontiers in Finance Series)	Books	2	8	18	N	N	Founded on a misconception	The purpose of the book is to set rules for successful market timing according to the stage of the business cycle. The attempt is misconceived and the result is likely to damage the economic well-being of anyone who puts it into practice. <br />It is one thing to say, uncontroversially, that financial asset returns are affected by business conditions. It is even plausible to say that, in certain limited respects, financial asset returns follow predictable patterns (such as return to size, or price-to-book ratio) that are not encapsulated in the standard framework of the semi-strong form of the Efficient Market Hypothesis. But the suggestion that one can derive accurate forecasts of financial asset returns from a knowledge of the business cycle (even supposing, mirabile dictu, that it is possible to forecast the business cycle) is plain wrong. Financial theory, which is largely borne out in statistical tests, stipulates that expected returns on particular assets are equal at any stage of the business cycle once you have adjusted for risk. It is shifts in *expectations* for business conditions, and hence for the net present value of future earnings, that determine asset returns, not shifts in the conditions themselves. There is such a thing as the business cycle, and there is such a thing as the interest rate cycle, but there is no such thing as an equity market cycle. Equity prices don't go in cycles.<br />The entire premise of the book is thus a mistake. Basing your investment decisions on a mistake is never a good idea, and basing market timing decisions (in which, because you have to time your investment behaviour correctly on two decisions - when to get out of an asset *and* when to get into an alternative asset) is an exceptionally risky strategy to found on a mistake. I give this book two stars, because the discussion of the economic indicators themselves is well-presented an informative - but as an investment book, this fails. Much better to follow the adviceof Burton Malkiel, in A Random Walk Down Wall Street, or Charles Ellis, in Investment Policy.	2001-08-23
US	52974863	R3GH8N2XR8IKA6	0297768387	749463698	Socialist Idea: A Reappraisal	Books	3	12	12	N	N	Superb, ground-breaking essay by Kolakowski	This book is a collection of papers, by various authors of a socialist persuasion, presented at a conference in 1973. It is, unsurprisingly, a hugely dated work. The theme of the conference was a critical examination of the prospects for socialism at that time, when the experience of its application - especially, but not only, in eastern Europe - had hardly accorded with the hopes of its adherents. <br />Nearly 30 years later, it is striking just how little relevance to modern politics the authors' ruminations have. None of them foresaw the breakdown of the Keynesian consensus on the rock of high inflation, or dealt with the information problem inherent in the allocation of scarce resources. Some of the essays are almost comical in their social scientific jargon: an essay on 'Socialism and the Nation', by Peter Ludz, concludes portentously, &quot;In contrast to SED [the East German Communists] internationalism, however, the SPD [the West German Social Democrats] inter-state concept does not derive its internationalism from class theory.&quot; It's tempting to attribute this deadly bureaucratic prose to a simple failure to foresee that the only really important historical question that applies to these two parties is that one, the SED, was a totalitarian monstrosity running a police state, while the other, the SPD, is a democratic party adhering to liberal values. Tempting, but too generous to the author: there were many heroic souls throughout the Cold War and across the democratic political spectrum who saw these issues clearly enough, including left-wingers like George Orwell and Sidney Hook.<br />So far, so turgid. But the real importance of this book, and what makes it well worth pursuing in second-hand bookshops, is an outstanding essay (&quot;The Myth of Human Self-Identity&quot;) by the book's co-editor, Leszek Kolakowski, a Polish philosopher who at that time still considered himself a Marxist. Kolakowski calmly and with a complete absence of polemical tonemanages to isolate a crucial reason why the Marxist project has always and everywhere turned bloody when it has had the opportunity to wield power. His argument - which is not an easy read, but then it is a complex point - is that Marxism is rendered totalitarian by its notion of 'the perfect unity of social life'. It is not possible to have more freedom, more equality and more justice (the pronounced ideals of socialism) if at the same time one aims at a unified human society.<br />Kolakowski's insight, while wholly original, was also wholly consistent with the liberalism of a thinker such as Isaiah Berlin (who made a similar point in his very last essay, published as &quot;The First and the Last&quot;) and the conservatism of Michael Oakeshott. Socialism in the sense meant traditionally by the British Labour Party, the Israeli Labour Party or the German Social Democrats is not totalitarian precisely because it values liberty more than it values socialising production (though such economic and social policies have had real costs, as the more orthodox policies pursued by Tony Blair would indicate), but then it is not socialist either. Real socialism of the type advocated by the Marxist left *is* an essentially totalitarian project because of this fundamental flaw.<br />The principal reason I myself abandoned socialism was because the force of Kolakowski's point was too great to ignore. His point has never been answered, though he has been met with much abuse and accusations of bad faith (notably by the late E.P.Thompson, whom some mistakenly believe to have been an honourable man). It is well worth searching for this essay, as a prelude to Kolakowski's great trilogy &quot;Main Currents of Marxism&quot;.	2001-08-23
US	52974863	R468A2TOQ86JA	0070220107	31670376	Winning the Loser's Game: Timeless Strategies for Successful Investing	Books	5	15	19	N	N	Perhaps the best of all primers on investment	Charles Ellis takes as his premise the applicability of the Efficient Markets Hypothesis, not as a dogma, nor even necessarily as an explanatory model, but as an immensely powerful prescriptive model. Financial markets are *highly* efficient, and it is exceptionally difficult to identify opportunities for arbitrage (riskless profit) within them. For the individual, retail investor the best course by far is to accept that investing is what Ellis calls &quot;a loser's game&quot;. By this he means that - in his own analogy - successful investing is more like amateur tennis than professional tennis: in professional tennis the winner is the one who has the best technique and the greatest skill; in amateur tennis, the winner is the one who makes fewest mistakes. Investing ought to start with the axiom that managing risk (which is what drives investment returns) is immeasurably more important than seeking market inefficiencies (if such exist), while trading on 'tips' is an almost guaranteed way to make yourself poorer. <br />Ellis explains in non-technical but never simplistic language the essentials of a rational approach to portfolio construction and management. He has a particular gift for explaining highly abstruse notions in modern portfolio theory and making them sound like common sense. This is a necessary and important book in a field plagued by charlatans. I recommend to anyone seeking to maximise his wealth over the long run.	2001-08-23
US	52974863	R2VW4OOZ7UUOW1	156324487X	379236976	Letters of Sidney Hook: Democracy, Communism and the Cold War	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Spirited and erudite defence of democratic ideals	Sidney Hook's philosophical works, notably those expounding pragmatism and Marxism, are of enduring value and are still in print. But his most consistent writings were his shorter pieces attacking totalitarianism and defending the ideals of a free society. It was a feature of his exemplary life that he wrote an enormous volume of correspondence, where he felt it worthwhile to explain and explicate democratic values. <br />This book contains a small, chronologically-ordered selection of those letters, which make fascinating reading. The defence of democracy is never less than erudite and thought-provoking. Hook was often criticised for being impatient of those who differed from him, but these letters give no such indication. On the contrary, his unfailing generosity of spirit is evident in the letters reproduced here to his fellow-philosopher and humanist Corliss Lamont, who unfailingly defended the vicissitudes of Stalin and than whom no more egregious apologist for Soviet tyranny existed. The editor, Edward Shapiro provides a useful introduction to each decade's correspondence, and observes that in later years Hook's political writings were dominated by the subject of the Communist threat, and that the spark seemed to be lacking in, for example, Hook's defence of social democracy. I am sure this is right, and equally I am sure that Hook's emphasis was justified. The differences between conservatives and social democrats on economic philosophy are family differences among those who share a commitment to democratic processes and institutions; the differences between that heterogeneous collection of democrats and totalitarianism are fundamental and extreme. Hook's letters provide a powerful contribution to the defence of democratic values.	2001-08-23
US	52974863	R2LO1SPJ7RA6QS	044921821X	811923112	Self-Consciousness	Books	5	24	25	N	N	Wonderful evocation of formative years	John Updike is arguably, with Saul Bellow, the greatest of living authors writing in English. This volume exemplifies his strengths. His evocation of growing up in middle-America is often quite beautiful. Yet this book is not a memoir in the conventional sense of a chronological account, but more of series of scenes and reflections from a full and satisfying life. Updike's moving account of his struggle with psoriasis and his marital difficulties is personal without degenerating into the narcissism of so much second-rate autobiography, even if he pays slightly more attention to his rakish period in the 1970s than we might strictly wish to know.<br />Updike writes poignantly but with resolution of his lonely status as a liberal writer in the 1960s who did not lose his ideals as a liberal Democrat, in the traditional sense of that term, and thus who abjured the descent into extremism and anti-anti-Communism of many of his contemporaries. To have believed that the Vietnam War was imprudent and prosecuted by morally dubious means, yet known the noble cause that was at stake in it - namely, preventing a country from falling to a ferocious Communist tyranny - won Updike few friends and lost him many, yet his stance was an honourable and principled one. <br />The final chapter of the book is, for me, the best. Updike writes particularly well of his liberal religious faith, which almost amounts to fideism. One can admire his honest wrestling with such questions without sharing his conclusions, and admire even more the quality of writing and personal reflection here expressed.	2001-08-23
US	52974863	R1LNH3KP0K3B1D	0700610308	319429035	The Dark Side of the Left: Illiberal Egalitarianism in America (American Political Thought)	Books	5	24	24	N	N	Rigorous and salutary analysis of utopianism	This is a terrific work of cultural history, literary criticism and political philosophy. Ellis declares early in his book his own liberal-left political sympathies, before proceeding to identify the inherent illiberalism of much that has passed for left-wing thought in American history. His range is wide, and his knowledge of American culture impressive. But what is most devastating about his descriptions and analysis of the romantic illusions he catalogues is his awareness of the ostensible justice of the claims underlying them. <br />The abolitionist movement against slavery was a great moral cause, yet it included a wing devoted to violent and messianic extremism. The early activists in Students for a Democratic Society at least were aware of the need to formulate their demands in the language of liberal rights, before veering into advocacy of Maoist terrorism. Ellis traces these developments not to any simplistic teleology of the collapse of radical ideals into totalitarianism, but to the implict illiberalism of believing that all good things are necessarily compatible with each other, and that mere preferences (environmental protection, for example) should be treated as moral axioms. The sharpest analysis of this phenomenon in the book is Ellis's devastating exegesis of Edward Bellamy's now-forgotten but once vastly-influential utopian novel Looking Backward. Because the scheme of social organisation depicted in the novel has no awareness of how to reconcile conflicting claims to scarce resources or incommensurable values, the vision that it propounds is one of unabashed totalitarianism. Illiberalism and even totalitarianism are integral parts of the American left now; Ellis demonstrates how and why that intellectual tradition developed.	2001-08-22
US	52974863	R1T214356O15PU	0029177766	115191132	Armchair Economist: Economics & Everyday Life	Books	5	4	7	N	N	Witty and thought-provoking	Non-technical economic writing usually takes the form of superficial - and often inexpert - commentary on ephemeral issues. Landsburg's work is different, in that his non-technical writing consists in the explication of complex economic concepts in lucid and entertaining prose. It is witty and perceptive writing, and is likely to be of enduring value. There are three absolutely priceless chapters in particular that are devastatingly funny and economically important: a list of economic howlers (such as that of the well-meaning, non-economist academic who believed that government spending involves no cost anywhere else in the economy); a shrewd description of the differences between environmentalism (which, in its non-economic form, is more like a branch of religious fundamentalism) and economic reasoning; and a superb exegesis of equilibrium theories of asset pricing. The last of those chapters covers my own professional field, and I can only say that the sport Landsburg has with those supposedly expert financial advisers who tout dangerous superstitions like 'dollar-cost averaging' ought to be required reading for anyone considering investing in the stock market.<br />My only real criticism of the book concerns the ubiquity of Landsburg's premise, which he deploys over a range of subjects, that economic agents respond to incentives. That, of course, is absolutely right, but it is not the only reason that markets generally allocate scarce resources more efficiently than bureaucrats. A more powerful reason is the problem of information: market pricing is a co-ordinating system as much as it is a system of rewards. Even if men were sufficiently altruistic not to require incentives, they would still need information, of a type that dirigiste economic planning cannot provide. <br />But this is a minor quibble. The book is great stuff.	2001-08-22
US	52974863	RHXRQIF4C8LSW	0879754737	301503624	Convictions	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Fitting epitaph to an exemplary life	Sidney Hook was an outstanding philosopher who tried to fashion a synthesis of Marxism and Dewey's pragmatism. But his most important work was as a defender of the values of a free society against totalitarian ideologies. <br />This posthumous collection of essays contains Hook's reflections on a range of public policy questions, from an essay on euthanasia (which, while I do not agree with his conclusion, is a most moving account of his closeness to death) to a characteristically robust defence of the western enlightenment tradition against the educational obscurantists who would misunderstand it as 'eurocentric' and 'imperialist'. What shines through the book - especially in a gem of an essay in which he patiently explains to the pseudo-historian Howard Zinn why an imperfect liberal democracy has immeasurably great merits that are worth defending - is Hook's belief in the power of human reason applied to human affairs, tempered by his insistence on the necessity of constitutional government to protect us from the arbitrary power of totalitarian ideologies. A fine testament to a great man.	2001-08-22
US	52974863	R20008U60KEY9H	0618082328	394376277	The Holocaust in American Life	Books	2	20	42	N	N	Well-argued exposition of a deeply flawed thesis	Novick's book has suffered by being considered in the same light as Norman Finkelstein's polemic The Holocaust Industry. That is an unfortunate comparison. Finkelstein's book is a crude work of conspiracist anti-Semitism, designed to bolster an overriding political agenda. Novick's book is a challenging work of sociology, attempting to identify how and why the Holocaust became a motif of American culture.<br />He makes some good points and has a particularly sharp eye for the appropriation of the Holocaust as kitsch. Yet this is not a point unknown to scholars of the Holocaust. (Lucy Dawidowicz, in The Holocaust and the Historians, observed that there is always a temptation in expounding the Holocaust to resort to inappropriate analogy; Novick certianly doesn't improve on this observation.) What is problematic about Novick's work is his explanation. He identifies the needs of the state of Israel and in particular military victory in the Six-Day War as the start of a cultural fascination with the Holocaust. This is to confuse correlation with causation. It seems to me much more plausible to infer that Jewish communities after the war were so shattered and traumatised by the experience of Nazi tyranny that they simply had more urgent tasks than to reflect on the Holocaust at length: they had to pick up the shattered remnants of European Jewry and *survive*. Only a generation later would Jews reflect and act upon the need to ensure that future generations remembered and were educated about the Holocaust. Sometimes, as has happened with sentimental films (one particular Oscar winner, for example) or museum exhibits, the attempt at remembrance has failed or even come close to blasphemous frivolity. But that the task of remembrance is a vital one, for which occasional excesses are a price we should willingly pay, seems to me incontrovertible and a necessary corrective to Novick's thesis.	2001-08-04
US	52974863	R3CG4IXCK3D7RX	0316184136	844504752	The Complete Poems of Emily Dickinson	Books	5	15	16	N	N	One of the greatest of all writers of poetry in English	This is the standard and authoritative collected edition of Emily Dickinson's poems. It is a book that will stay with you for the rest of your life. I can think of no finer writer of poetry in English who manages to invest so short and simple a construction - no more than a couple of lines in some cases - with such emotional force. I say 'simple', but her poems are simple only in a deceptive sense. An unfinished poem like &quot;A letter is a joy of earth/ It is denied the gods -&quot; (that's the whole poem) says more about the joy of constructing prose than any number of effusive efforts from the Romantics.<br />Miss Dickinson has suffered from having been appropriated by the rather dreary crowd of 'cultural critics' who cannot grasp that a work of art tells us primarily not about the social mores of the time it was written in but about the human spirit. She is especially vulnerable to this sort of irrelevant sophistry, having lived as a recluse for much of her life and thus being ripe for 'interpretation' that is nothing more than a recitation of modern political sensibilities. That's a shame, and it certainly shouldn't put you off reading her. So far as I'm concerned, there is no one - not even Shakespeare, not even Jane Austen or Dickens - whom I read more frequently, and with greater pleasure and benefit.	2001-08-04
US	52974863	RF38K4ALJZAOZ	0465021522	768348685	Lying About Hitler: History, Holocaust Holocaust And The David Irving Trial	Books	4	34	58	N	N	An important exposition of the use and abuse of history	Since David Irving's disastrous libel suit against Penguin books, some highly disingenuous commentary has been written by people who clearly neither attended the trial nor understood it (some, for example, apparently not realising that Irving was the plaintiff, not the defendant). Richard Evans, who was an expert witness for the defence, puts the record straight in an important work. Much of the book is devoted to a devastating assessment of Irving's work as a historian; he demonstrates (with, most damningly, a detailed account of Irving's fabrications concerning the bombing of Dresden) that dishonesty has been at the heart of Irving's work since the 1960s. This done, Evans is in a powerful position to substantiate his judgement: the Irving libel suit went to the heart of what history - a contingent process of testing hypotheses - actually means. Irving subordinated historical inquiry to his neo-Nazi sympathies, in an egregious violation of the scholarly ethic. <br />The only substantial criticism I have of this salutary and important book is where, in his final chapter, Evans in my view deviates from the discipline of history and ventures some rather more speculative and tentative political judgements. He draws a sharp contrast between Irving's Holocaust denial and the work of those writers who have recently criticised the 'Holocaust industry', who at least do not doubt the historicity of the Holocaust. I'm not so sure. Evans describes the work of Peter Novick and Norman Finkelstein as displaying &quot;widely differing degrees of detail and accuracy&quot;, implying - quite rightly - that Novick's book has a claim to scholarship whereas Finkelstein's polemic does not. Yet Finkelstein (and even more so his associate Noam Chomsky) display very similar characteristics to David Irving: an agenda of extreme anti-Zionist agitation in preference to scholarship; an adherence to conspiracy theories about Jews; documented links with neo-Nazis (Chomsky, for example, describedone Holocaust denier whom Evans refers to, Robert Faurisson, as &quot;a sort of relatively apolitical liberal&quot;); and a willingness to fabricate source material (see Arthur Schlesinger's destruction, in his collection The Cycles of American History, of Chomsky's fabrication of quotations by President Truman). The Irving phenomenon is an extreme one, but it has its counterparts elsewhere on the political spectrum.	2001-08-04
US	52974863	R1XFRW5OGWUZKI	0815410646	599592784	Memoir: My Life and Themes	Books	5	10	12	N	N	Magnificently crafted memoir of a great Irishman	O'Brien is the living embodiment of what it is to be a polymath and a man of letters. The range of his work as statesman, academic and author is rivalled in recent history only by Malraux. This is a magnificent memoir of an exemplary life.<br />The most striking characteristic of O'Brien the statesman is his extraordinary courage - physical courage, not merely the willingness to express a controversial view - in expounding the essential moral difference between democracy and terrorism, and the need for a democratic polity to defend itself against those who would undermine it by violence. One need not agree with all of O'Brien's policy conclusions - an unyielding rejection of the deeply flawed Good Friday agreement, and a curious addendum in this volume that nonetheless Ulster Protestants might have to reconcile themselves one day to a united Ireland - to be thankful for, and to benefit from, his lesson that the advocates of revolutionary violence stand in defiance of the values of a civilised and liberal order.<br />The recurrent theme of the book, reflecting O'Brien's lifelong fascination with the subject, is the interaction of nationalism and religion. He is deeply critical of the cult of revolutionary nationalism in his native Ireland, and analyses with great insight the sources of nationalist mythology. He is similarly knowledgeable of the connections between Jewish nationalism and religion, and takes the - by now, unfortunately rare - position of a Gentile with a principled and liberal sympathy for the cause of Israel.<br />It is, in short, a consistently thought-provoking book by a man of courage, literary skill and outstanding intellect. Highly recommended.	2001-07-23
US	52974863	R1NC33FG83MC43	0863160999	348807061	In Defense of Mumia	Books	1	6	13	N	N	Don't buy this absurd and evil book	A load of political illiterates preening themselves would be an apt description of this absurd and evil book. At no point do these highly paid performers deal with the clear evidence of Mumia's cop-killing - literally,  he was found with a smoking gun.	1999-05-26
US	52974863	R1DMMRL373E9OO	0071340963	29549197	Stock Market Rules: 70 of the Most Widely Held Investment  Axioms Explained, Examined and Exposed	Books	1	8	10	N	N	Disgracefully ignorant	According to the dust jacket, the author earns his living as an investment adviser. One can only marvel at the generosity of his clients in retaining him if this book is anything to go by.<br />Mr Sheimo affects to  &quot;explain&quot; and &quot;examine&quot; some investment notions, and to  &quot;expose&quot; the ones he finds contentious. In order to do any of  these things, it would help if he were actually to trouble to acquaint  himself with what these &quot;axioms&quot; are in the first place. All too  often he merely displays his own ignorance by getting them not only  comprehensively wrong, but wrong in such a form as to constitute a  schoolboy howler. <br />I take just one example as representative of Mr  Sheimo's cluelessness: chapter 65, which attempts to debunk the  &quot;random walk hypothesis&quot;. The author considers that he has  accomplished this task by setting a chart of numbers generated randomly in  a lottery draw against a chart of the Dow Jones price index, over two  years. And, duh, they look different. It beggars belief that a professional  investment adviser should be in business at all let alone could have  written stuff like that without first having worked out what variable it is  that the hypothesis posits as random. It isn't *prices* that are  hypothesised to follow a random walk, but price *changes*. If Mr Sheimo  goes back to his database and tries this exercise again, but does it  properly this time, I suspect he will see immediately why his published  work has - to coin the euphemism to end all euphemisms - somewhat missed  the point of the exercise. Having started with a howler of monumental  proportions, the author then goes on to a series of misconceptions  buttressed by non sequiturs. The most egregious of the lot is his  misconception that in an efficient stock market the past doesn't predict  the future. Wrong yet again: to the contrary, in an efficient stock market,  where all publicly available information is already discounted in market  prices, today's price is the best possible predictor of tomorrow's price.  It's today's price *change* that has no implications for tomorrow's price  *change* - thereby rendering the disciplines of technical analysis and  stock market forecasting a damaging irrelevance at best.<br />It would be  difficult to do justice to the sheer awfulness and ignorance of this book  in a single review. But the effect after a while is just tedium rather than  the majesty that you sometimes get from reading something that is  unspeakably bad. Don't bother buying it, in any event.	1999-05-20
US	52974863	R1B4HGCR2FEBMK	1567510701	91867682	Race for Justice: Mumia Abu-Jamal's Fight Against the Death Penalty	Books	1	10	27	N	N	An insult to the memory of a brave police officer	If there's one thing you won't learn in this farrago of nonsense it is that the subject of the book was caught, literally, with a smoking gun. The evidence of his guilt is overwhelming. It is an insult to the memory of a  brave police officer that this murderer, properly tried and sentenced with  two black jurors having heard the evidence, should be presented as some  sort of political prisoner. He isn't; he's a thug.	1999-02-21
US	52974863	R2DRMMDXA1GENL	0684835541	155478329	One World Ready or Not: The Manic Logic of Global Capitalism	Books	1	17	27	N	N	An almost complete misunderstanding of economics	Paul Krugman of MIT - one of that rare breed, a serious economist who can write - has famously called this &quot;an astonishingly silly book&quot;. I have to disagree: the book is much, much worse than that.<br />Greider's  thesis boils down to the &quot;global excess supply&quot; nostrum - and  it's based not only on a fundamental misunderstanding of economics but also  on straightforward innumeracy and an inability to think critically. As  Keynes tells us, wages reflect the marginal product of labour. Any  increased production in the Third World must *go somewhere*, in the form of  increased income either to labour (wages) or capital (profits). That  increased income must be either spent or saved - so if there really were  inadequate aggregate demand (or equivalently excess capacity) then we would  expect savings to exceed profitable investment opportunities. Do they?  Well, Greider provides no evidence - which is unsurprising....<br />Greider's  economic analysis is thus wrong - indeed, absurd and intellectual  disreputable. His policy recommendations derived from his wrong-headed  arguments are downright destructive, however. They amount to a recipe for a  misallocation of scarce resources to unproductive uses and a hike in  inflation. There could be few more damaging courses for the developing  world, or surer ways to cut real wages and depress living standards. But  then the identity of interest between the far Left (Chomsky, Nader etc.)  and the far Right (Pat Buchanan) has never had logic or reason on its side.	1999-02-19
US	52974863	RJDN2IAA3XEVU	0300071507	462756208	The Soviet World of American Communism (Annals of Communism Series)	Books	5	20	22	N	N	A model of historical documentation and interpretation	Interpretation of US domestic politics during the Cold War has been bedevilled by ad hominem accusation and counter-accusation. The undoubted injustices perpetrated by McCarthyism have also long obscured the subject. The work of these authors - and also, in other books, of Ronald Radosh - must be counted not only impressive, but definitive. We now know, thanks to their efforts, that the Communist Party of the United States really was a tool of Soviet clandestine operations, and that those &quot;revisionist&quot; interpreters who portrayed it as merely a persecuted and progressive group of idealists were egregiously mistaken. In short, what was wrong with McCarthyism was its wild and irresponsible exaggeration, not its premise; there really was an organised attempt on the part of the CPUSA and its front organisations to infiltrate Soviet influence into the liberal democratic American polity. The authors demonstrate this with meticulous scholarship; their book is one of the most important works of contemporary history to have been published since the collapse of the Soviet Union.	1998-05-27
US	52974863	R12C3C3MEQVQLC	0195209125	359859252	Europe: A History	Books	1	24	73	N	N	A much-hyped work suffering from innumerable errors of fact.	This is a most perplexing work. It has received extensive and highly favourable reviews, but its reliability as a general work of history is slim. The straightforward and quite extreme errors of fact are almost as numerous as the page numbers - for example, Davies gets the dates of all but one of the British Tudor monarchs wrong. What I find especially misleading, though, is its relentless stress on the centrality of Polish history to Europe; this reflects the author's specialism, not a disinterested judgement. Finally, his treatment of the term &quot;genocide&quot;, with its bizarre attempt to identify analogous experiences with the Holocaust, runs perilously close to frivolity. All in all, this book will probably be forgotten in a few years' time; at least, I hope so.	1998-01-22
