US	52977633	R2HN77YC6913U3	0679753826	601428370	Mohawk	Books	4	3	3	N	N	get out while you're young	This is the second time in a few weeks I'm reviewing a first novel by an author I like. I can understand why people like Russo's later books better, but this is defintely worth a read. I can't fault the writing, and I was bleeding for the characters. Mohawk is a dying tannery town in upstate New York, where the stores are closing, the downtown is decaying, and it doesn't pay to be too smart. Reminded me of some graffiti I once saw in a similar town when Amtrak's Lake Shore Limited was making a stop \\"Stay Stupid and Survive.\\" There seem to be no lasting friendships or social groups or activities. The main recreation consists of drinking and gambling, and no one can blame the characters for doing these to excess, given the truly awful things that keep happening to them. I was praying for any of them to be able to get away and stay away. In the background is the suggestion that the tanneries have been polluting the water supply for years, causing residents to get cancer at many times the national average (if you're familiar with A Civil Action, this is the same thing). The only times the entire town turns out in a ten-year period for entertainment is destruction, once a demolition of the old hospital, and once for a fire. Domestic violence is rampant. If you are looking for a happy book, this is not the one. However, I felt the author did a great job of creating a realistic place and the interrelationships of the people who lived there. I won't rehash the plot, as others have done, but as a Russo fan I say this can stand with his other work.	2005-10-08
US	52977633	R3OAQ2LGG89UB2	0440164931	140094580	Northern Lights	Books	3	12	14	N	Y	3.5 really, but read what i have to say	Tim O'Brien is an award-winning writer and I have really enjoyed some of his other novels. This is his first, written in 1975. I recommend reading Tim O'Brien, but don't start with this one. You may get turned off early and miss out on something really good. After slogging through the first half of this book, I almost pitched it. Nothing happens, even when there is a big buildup to make you think something is finally going to happen. The writing style is poor. There is endless repitition, uninspired description \\"It was very hot,\\" bad grammar and other irritants.  <br />THEN, I read the second half and was plunged into an action-adventure-survival drama with two brothers fighting for their lives in a whited-out northern Minnesota forest in January. The style didn't improve, but I didn't care. In many ways this book seemed to me the forerunner of his bestseller In the Lake of the Woods, which I highly recommend. Don't pass this one by, either. Skip or skim the first part if you feel the way I did. He gets a lot better as he goes along.	2005-10-01
US	52977633	R1UBMXS84PC1UO	157322300X	762441270	The Harmony Silk Factory	Books	5	10	11	N	N	nothing is as it appears to be	This is the underlying theme of this extraordinary first novel set in WWII era Malaya. Don't expect a book about contemporary Malaysia. The story revolves around Johnny Lim, as told by his son, his wife, and a British man who settles in Malaya/Malaysia and remains for the rest of his life. If you are looking for the absolute truth about Johnny or the other characters, you are not likely to find it. Each story is told from an individual perspective, leaving the reader with completely different ideas, but the truth may be made up of all these different pieces of information. The first story is told in a straightforward manner by the son, who sees his father as a criminal psychopath with no feelings for anyone else. The story told by the wife is like walking further and further inside a surrealist painting. It was hard to know what was fantasy and what was reality. The third story resolves some of this, but adds surprisingly new twists. The description and use of language is stunningly beautiful. I was reminded of The Hamilton Case in reading about the physical and psychological effects the jungle has--including in this book what it feels like having a poisonous snake land on your shoulder and take a bite of you before you know what's happening. The names have meanings, some of which are not apparent until the end (Snow, Honey, Jasper, Wormwood). And what really is the Harmony Silk Factory? Although it starts out like a literal plot kind of book, it really also is not what it appears. Keep an open mind and don't be fooled by the style of the first part. I think this author is wonderfully talented and hope he will be coming out with more novels. I would say definitely dont miss this one.	2005-09-17
US	52977633	R2FMELUEOMINDE	1400063175	905858065	Dying to Win: The Strategic Logic of Suicide Terrorism	Books	5	9	13	N	N	A book everyone concerned about suicide terrorists should read	This is the first in-depth study I have seen on the subject of suicide terrorism. I recommend this to everyone, regardless of their own political or religious beliefs. This is a non-partisan, objective study of every suicide terrorist attack in the world from 1980 through 2003, in all countries, including Sri Lanka, Israel, Lebanon, Turkey, Russia and the U.S. The book is well researched and everything is documented. The author employed a team of people fluent in Hebrew, Arabic, Tamil and Russian to assist him with sources not available in English. We hear many hypotheses as to why suicide terrorism exists; he debunks a lot of the myths, and based on the facts, comes up with what may well be the real reasons. He explores what motivates individuals to become suicide bombers and gives biographical profiles of the most notorious suicide terrorists, including Mohammed Atta. He outlines possible strategies for ending suicide terrorism, which this country has yet to follow. As one of those standing in the street watching the fall of the twin towers in New York on 9/11, I found this book to be a real eye opener. At the time none of us knew what to think. Whether or not you agree with everything the author says, this is a good background book to a subject that mystifies most Americans.	2005-08-06
US	52977633	RTQRQQZJQ8YG9	1400061504	313524035	Metropolis: A Novel	Books	5	8	15	N	N	Fabulous, well-researched novel of 1870s New York	I couldnt put this book down. The author tells a story of immigrants in New York City in the 1870s, and much of it is based on actual people and events. At the center is a criminal gang called the Whyos, who really existed. The reader is plunged into the action in the very first chapter, with the main character waking up in a fire at the Barnum museum (also an actual event). The person who set the fire (this is established right away, I'm not giving away the end) is a repulsive sociopathic killer with the nickname of The Undertaker. The book gives an incredible sense of time and place, in minute detail, which is only possible through extensive research. It clearly shows the myth that this country offered people: someone could arrive here with nothing and be willing to work hard, and end up a millionaire. Everyone had an equal chance in the land of golden opportunity. The reality was it was hard to avoid the criminal elements, one was lucky to find back-breaking dangerous work for little pay and no benefits, women had few options, disease (typhoid, tuberculosis, etc.)was rampant, there was appalling overcrowding and lack of santitation. The action is nonstop, with a large cast of characters, right to the very last page. Although the story paints a dark picture of life among the underclass, the book has many hopeful notes, and some of the characters do move upward. This is without a doubt one of the best (and best written books) I've read this year. The author's attention to detail is to be commended.	2005-07-24
US	52977633	R2AUKRK3D1PNS2	1420831445	406954085	The Acts of a Pagan Jew	Books	5	0	1	N	Y	I loved Pagan Jew	I really enjoyed this book - an \\"eye-witness account\\" of life in the Roman Empire.  What a great idea and what a great story!  There's something here for everyone--Jews, Christians, pagans and atheists.<br /><br />Galen makes her historical and biblical figures into regular people who speak contemporary dialogue.  This is funny and really brings home that people have been pretty much the same through the ages.  I loved Pontius Pilate (and i'm Catholic!)  I even loved Caligula and the crocodile.<br /><br />The book is just so entertaining.  Galen has done a terrific job.	2005-07-17
US	52977633	R136VCLQK1YCP2	0452286123	149920312	Summer in the City	Books	2	5	8	N	N	Read Weekend in Paris if you must read this author	I loved Weekend in Paris. This book by comparison is awful. If you've heard of the Ashcan School, this is the Trashcan School. My friend warned me it was \\"silly.\\" A better description is \\"Ripoff.\\" This book borrows from all the chick lit I have ever read. The first chapter is lifted straight out of Bridget Jones. The London/New York thing comes from several books. The mother-in-law is out of the Shopaholic series. So is the set-up to cause trouble and get the guy fired. The title is from an old Lovin Spoonful song. The scene in the Hamptons was done in Trading Up. The book itself is a revised version of a previously published book with a different title. There is nothing original or memorable at all. I really dont know who wrote what first, but if chick lit is going to survive as a genre, it needs to have a little more to it than the predictable plot of girl with unsatisfying romantic life ends up with great job and great guy. I guess I couldnt expect too much from an author thanking Lizzie Grubman for her input. But there is much better stuff out there, and Weekend in Paris is one.	2005-07-16
US	52977633	R3OXV7CGZRI3KB	1569473706	115812677	Detective Inspector Huss	Books	5	35	37	N	Y	All-star Swedish thriller	I really got into this story about a woman police detective in Goteborg, Sweden. This is not a lightweight mystery that comes to the conclusion that X killed Y. There are complex relationships between the characters, a lot of interrelated violent crimes, and motives that are not at all apparent at the start. The book pulls the reader right in by having a wealthy prominent man fall to his death from a high-rise balcony, landing in the street where his wife and son have just parked the car. The net of people involved continually widens, and the action doesnt stop. Some subplots running through the book add to the story (rather than distracting readers, as some authors do). The most interesting for me was the main character's having to handle her 13-year-old daughter becoming seriously involved with a group of neo-Nazis. The details of family and departmental relationships add a sense of reality. The one criticism I had was that the main character's husband was too perfect to be real. I thought it may have been more interesting if she had been divorced, raising the kids on her own. This would leave the possibility open for some romantic involvement. Apart from that, I did get the feeling of having been to Sweden when I finished the story. I highly recommend this book.	2005-06-30
US	52977633	RCJVIFZEPH2P	0452286530	781983073	The Jane Austen Book Club	Books	1	11	16	N	N	Jane down the drain...	If you like Jane Austen or are interested in Jane Austen, read her books. Read good imitation sequels, like Julia Barrett's. Read some good literary criticism and learn something. This book uses Jane Austen's name and a clever title to sucker people into buying a flatly uninteresting story about a group of Californians. Chapters begin with a sentence from one of Jane Austen's novels, then drift into the past of each character, usually involving teenage sexual angst and bad experiences in high school. This kind of thing has been done so many times and so much better you won't believe you are wasting your time on it. There is no plot, there are no memorable characters. I didn't find the book particularly witty, but there were passages that indicated the author was capable of producing something more competent. The amount of blank pages and white space should give you a clue before you buy. This book was clearly written just to make some money, but I didn't buy it and the author won't be getting any other royalties from me.	2005-06-14
US	52977633	R3GR8HP20YF7G6	0446695564	718882852	Skinny Dip	Books	3	10	11	N	N	not the best,, not the worst	That about says it. Carl Hiaasen has written some really entertaining books, and this one almost makes it. I suspect some of the people who gave it the rah rah rave reviews havent read his earlier greats. The idea for the story is really good, but I think his writing is starting to slip. Here's what I consider some of the flaws. I wish he'd stop recycling minor characters like Skink (who is now called Captain). I am just plain sick and tired of watching him eat road kill, tie people up and pop his glass eye in and out. I think it's time he was laid to rest for good. Mick Stranahan I remember from an earlier book, but he doesn't do anything that interesting in this one. Joay is the real mastermind, and I think she could do better. The writing should have been tightened up, in the middle of the book the story began to grind to a standstill for awhile. There were a lot of silly incidents that didnt further the action, which was pretty exciting when it would get going. Finally the earlier books created outrageous situations that just kept on growing and the humor was incredible. In this book, I thought the author was laying on the humor with a sledge hammer. The character of Tool was a good personification of the technique. In short, the author can do a lot better, although in some books he's done worse. I'd like to see more of Joey, maybe Rolvaag, Rose and Corbett. This book raises some good new possibilities if the author wants to take advantage of them.	2005-06-12
US	52977633	R1JLKQBRJIMLE7	1400042127	100769891	French Women Don't Get Fat: The Secret of Eating for Pleasure	Books	4	5	9	N	N	Good advice, great recipes, but...	I think the author is right about most of the things she says. A lot of it is common sense, the kind of thing parents (used to) say: eat slowly, chew your food, eat small portions, don't skip meals, eat breakfast, drink water, get some exercise. However, I agree with some of the reviewers that intentionally or not, the author is talking more to the New York elite than the average American. Union Square does have a wonderful farmers' market, but unless you work close by, there isn't time to get over there. And what about this scenario: single working mother with maybe two jobs to make ends meet, getting squeezed more and more in today's economy, cutting out all the unnecessary items. Is she about to run out for a bottle of Veuve Clicquot to pour over the chicken? Are the kids going to care? Is she going to bake her own bread and make fresh croissants in the morning? I wouldnt go that far and I dont have kids. I also felt the author was plugging her product just a little too often, as wonderful as it may be. I am glad I read the book and found I have been doing the right thing for the last six months. Her suggestions really have worked for me (sans the expensive champagne.  I do recommend the book, even just because it's fun to read, gives you one of those little pleasures the French women indulge in.	2005-05-31
US	52977633	R2LDXDH8IR70TU	0375724575	254577781	The Family Orchard	Books	5	13	13	N	N	orchard growing and old jerusalem	...two things i knew nothing about when i picked up this book. I found this family story of succeeding generations, renewing the cycle of life over and over, to be fascinating. The author takes the bare facts her father writes down and lets her imagination take her back to tell the stories of her ancestors, starting in Jerusalem in the 1830s. Her use of language is wonderful, and she adds tidbits of etymology throughout. The book is enhanced by 31 illustrations, a growing family tree, and an appendix explaining orchard terms.<br /><br />I'd like to refute the negative reviews that I don't think do the author justice. People seemed not to like this book for two reasons: it had graphic sex and it was boring. The only graphic sex was in the first chapter, for those that didnt read any further. In no way is this book filled with graphic sex or gratuitous sex scenes thrown in just to sell the book. One person compared it to pornography and I can't imagine what book they were reading! I also did not find it boring, when I read fiction I want to learn about new things and places. Not everyone has been to Israel or has studied the history of pre-1948 Palestine. I am amazed this book has't come out in paperback (update, it appears it is now in paperback and i'm glad to see people reading it). I would highly recommend it and already have to some friends.	2005-05-15
US	52977633	R2R2W38TY59VZ	0874517389	630836881	Summer Light (Hardscrabble Books–Fiction of New England)	Books	5	2	2	N	Y	Beautifully written story of family interaction	Roxana Robinson has become one of my favorite authors. She writes with exquisite style and her characters are really believable. Her novels focus on families in crisis situations, usually as the result of divorces and second marriages. She writes especially well on the subject of children traumatized by divorce. In both this book and This Is My Daughter, this leads to a shocking ending. It's interesting to speculate what will happen to the characters here. The main character, Laura, does a lot of growing during this summer and learns to see things from others' point of view. This book is so well constructed, there are no unnecessary scenes or characters. The author is really gifted and I would highly recommend any of her novels.	2005-05-08
US	52977633	R2J2O4X07ITSO4	0684864363	390970926	This is My Daughter: A Novel	Books	5	10	11	N	Y	Outstanding characterization	It's really necessary to read this book more than once. The author has created great depth of character, and every personality is well-developed. It's true that the characters are not \\"nice\\" or particularly likable, but they are endlessly interesting and realistic. I can't believe this whole story came out of the author's imagination; she must have known some of these people. Roxana Robinson is really a phenomenal talent and I agree with one of the other reviewers that this would be a good book for a discussion group.<br /><br />Amanda isn't spoiled. Her parents are indifferent, not indulgent. Amanda does whatever she wants because no one bothers to find out what she's doing. Peter leaves the marriage and his daughter for purely selfish reasons, resulting in a drastic lifestyle change for Amanda and her mother, which he doesn't seem to notice. He wants Amanda's presence every weekend, but he spends no time getting to know her, finding out what she likes, what she thinks, how she feels about the divorce or anything else. He lets Emma have all the responsibility for her. Caroline was dealt a bad hand, but she proceeds to drown in self-pity and pays no attention to her daughter. It's easy to see she is thinking only of herself when she brings men home for one-night stands in the bedroom next to Amanda's. Caroline does nothing to help herself or her daughter to move forward.<br /><br />It is Tess who is the child from hell, who is really spoiled. At the age of three she is already a master of manipulation. If she remotely senses things may not go exactly the way she wants them to she has spectacular tantrums, sometimes several within the hour, crying, screaming, throwing herself on the floor, banging her head on the furniture. She ends up having Emma apologize to her! If she isn't  the center of attention, she interrupts adults and shouts over other people's words. At one point she yells at her nanny for not looking at her when she wants to say something. She doesn't outgrow this, either. At the age of twelve she crawls into bed for the night with her mother and stepfather because she has a nightmare or is afraid of the dark. This is really inappropriate behavior, as Peter says to Emma. Emma refuses to listen to him. She always behaves as though Tess can do no wrong.<br /><br />Emma is trying to be the perfect mother, but she doesn't succeed. Several characters tell her she is rigid and intolerant, and it's true. She has rules for the kids that border on the ridiculous. They aren't allowed to chew gum. Amanda, at 15, isn't allowed to have a cup of coffee. The kids are never allowed to watch any television. It would be reasonable to set a limit on the time they spend watching, or to say they couldn't watch certain programs, but Emma takes it to an unbelievable extreme. Meanwhile, Amanda is doing drugs all summer and Emma doesn't have a clue. Emma really has trouble getting along with everyone, including her parents, her sister, her co-worker, her ex-husband, and even Peter.<br /><br />Although the book does end on a hopeful note, here are my predictions for five years later:<br /><br />1. Emma and Peter get a divorce.<br /><br />2. Amanda goes off to college, has little or nothing more to do with Caroline, and less to do with Peter than he would like. I think he is going to realize it's too late.<br /><br />3. Caroline continues her downward spiral unless she is able to leave New York and move back to where her family is.<br /><br />4. Tess may grow up and grow away from her mother. Emma may try to live vicariously through Tess.<br /><br />I could go on and on, but dont want to give the story away. It's one of the best books I've read, period. I'll want to see more of this author's work.t outgrow this, either. At the age of twelve she crawls into bed for the night with her mother and stepfather because she has a nightmare or is afraid of the dark. This is really inappropriate behavior, as Peter says to Emma. Emma refuses to listen to him. She always behaves as though Tess can do no wrong. <br /> <br />Emma is trying to be the perfect mother, but she doesn't succeed. Several characters tell her she is rigid and intolerant, and it's true. She has rules for the kids that border on the ridiculous. They aren't allowed to chew gum. Amanda, at 15, isn't allowed to have a cup of coffee. The kids are never allowed to watch any television. It would be reasonable to set a limit on the time they spend watching, or to say they couldn't watch certain programs, but Emma takes it to an unbelievable extreme. Meanwhile, Amanda is doing drugs all summer and Emma doesn't have a clue. Emma really has trouble getting along with everyone, including her parents, her sister, her co-worker, her ex-husband, and even Peter. <br /> <br />Although the book does end on a hopeful note, here are my predictions for five years later: <br /> <br />1. Emma and Peter get a divorce. <br />2. Amanda goes off to college, has little or nothing more to do with Caroline, and less to do with Peter than he would like. I think he is going to realize it's too late. <br />3. Caroline continues her downward spiral unless she is able to leave New York and move back to where her family is. <br />4. Tess may grow up and grow away from her mother. Emma may try to live vicariously through Tess. <br /> <br />I could go on and on, but dont want to give the story away. It's one of the best books I've read, period. I'll want to see more of this author's work.	2005-04-23
US	52977633	R1TURILOG1SGUV	0743454537	354573823	My Sister's Keeper: A Novel (Wsp Readers Club)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	A Picoult Powerhouse	My Sister's Keeper is possibly the best book I have read yet by Jodi Picoult. As there are already so many reviews, I'd like to address some of the negative points other people raised first. Several people didn't like the ending. If this is the first book of hers they have read, they won't be familiar with the one or more ironic plot twists she gives at the very end of most books. The reader generally won't guess what happens (and I won't tell). The ending here really packs a punch, straight to the gut. The first words that occurred to me after finishing the book were be careful what you wish for. I think it not only could have happened in real life, it was a masterstroke by the author. Someone said they didn't see why Sara would dust off her law degree and go into court on this matter. First, there was very little time, a few days, both for the hearing and for Kate. Second, they had already raided the kids' college funds to pay for 10% of a $100,000 bone marrow transplant. People go into bankruptcy over things like this. Finally, she was desperate and probably wouldn't have trusted a stranger to handle the case.<br /><br />Fire is all over the place in this book. It's no accident Brian's profession is firefighting. Kate's illness is like one of those wildfires you see on the news every summer. They put it out, and before they know it, it reignites in a different spot. There's no control over that kind of fire and the family had no control over Kate's leukemia. Brian is able to save other people's kids in fires, but he can't do a thing for his own. Ironically, as if that weren't enough, his teenage son becomes an arsonist.<br /><br />My initial reaction to Sara was that she was a real cold-blooded piece of work. If a mother can say to one daughter, \\"Give us your kidney or you have just signed your sister's death warrant,\\" and to the other, \\"Why don't you just go and commit suicide?\\" the daughters may forgive her after many years, probably not before one of them is dead, but they won't forget it. Sara is not good for any of her kids by this time. However, unless one has been in her position, it's impossible to know what one would do in the same circumstances. The family is living through hell, every day of their lives. Nothing is normal. The kids have no friends, no outside activities. And it keeps getting worse. The suffering here is mind-boggling, and these things do happen to people. It's hard to take when terrible things keep happening to good, decent people who have done nothing to cause or deserve them.<br /><br />I did have a few criticisms of my own. I really thought we could have done without the high-school romance redux. It was improbable and did not further the story. Do authors and publishers still feel compelled to insert romantic interests and sex scenes that have nothing to do with the plot so that the book will sell? If they had to get together, it would have made more sense to meet for the first time on the case, become attracted and resolve it at the end. To have the plaintiff's attorney and the guardian ad litem hop into bed together the night before this crucial family court hearing is ridiculous. How much were they thinking of Anna? How much were they thinking of potential conflicts?<br /><br />I also thought they could have left out Julia's sister and Julia's trips to the gay bar to talk to the straight bartender. These people had nothing to do with the story. If the author wanted to show another example of sisters, why didn't she develop Sara's sister, Suzanne, more? After about the middle of the book she sort of disappears. I would think she could have been some help with her other niece and nephew.<br /><br />But on the whole, this book was everything her earlier novel, Mercy, should have been and wasn't.f them is dead, but they won't forget it. Sara is not good for any of her kids by this time. However, unless one has been in her position, it's impossible to know what one would do in the same circumstances. The family is living through hell, every day of their lives. Nothing is normal. The kids have no friends, no outside activities. And it keeps getting worse. The suffering here is mind-boggling, and these things do happen to people. It's hard to take when terrible things keep happening to good, decent people who have done nothing to cause or deserve them. <br /> <br />I did have a few criticisms of my own. I really thought we could have done without the high-school romance redux. It was improbable and did not further the story. Do authors and publishers still feel compelled to insert romantic interests and sex scenes that have nothing to do with the plot so that the book will sell? If they had to get together, it would have made more sense to meet for the first time on the case, become attracted and resolve it at the end. To have the plaintiff's attorney and the guardian ad litem hop into bed together the night before this crucial family court hearing is ridiculous. How much were they thinking of Anna? How much were they thinking of potential conflicts? <br /> <br />I also thought they could have left out Julia's sister and Julia's trips to the gay bar to talk to the straight bartender. These people had nothing to do with the story. If the author wanted to show another example of sisters, why didn't she develop Sara's sister, Suzanne, more? After about the middle of the book she sort of disappears. I would think she could have been some help with her other niece and nephew. <br /> <br />But on the whole, this book was everything her earlier novel, Mercy, should have been and wasn't. <br /> <br />	2005-04-06
US	52977633	R2RY03DW8CN66K	037550916X	968053683	Sweetwater: A Novel	Books	5	15	16	N	Y	wonderfully written and absorbing	This is the second book I have read by this author. She has an astounding talent for weaving a story. One thing she can do that many people can't is description. Detailing everyday events in ordinary people's lives turns tedious and boring in the hands of many writers. With this author, reading her description is like listening to a beautiful piece of music. Her plots center around tensions between people stuck together whether they like it or not (usually family members), and build to a catastrophic crescendo. The last part of this book is lived by the reader along with the characters. She also knows her subject matter. She gave a really accurate picture of what is was like for a person suffering from a major mental health disorder, and for the person's family. She made the valid point that no matter how supportive and sympathetic others may be, they can't cure the condition. She also gets across the fact that other people's behavior, good or bad, does not cause the condition (although it may help or aggravate it). The illness is no one's fault. I also liked her discussions of environmental issues, including the argument around the family dinner table (think back on it when you have finished the book). I personally will want to get my hands on everything this author publishes.	2005-04-01
US	52977633	R1HO57KDDMNA7Y	0812970985	575215393	The Art of Mending: A Novel	Books	3	5	5	N	N	Needed a lot of work	This book could and should have been much better. Berg is certainly capable of good writing (eg, Say When, What We Keep). If she is going to tackle a serious subject like child abuse, the plot and characters need to be much more developed. Part of the problem with this story is the first-person narration by Laura. The plot doesnt seem to move because Laura doesnt know and cannot know what is going on in the other characters' minds. A third-person or multiple point of view might have worked better. The parents are a total blank. We dont know enough about them to understand what happened and why. The book is too short and sketchy; it needed much more depth. As it is, it reads like a lightweight version of Mommy Dearest. I was never sure that Laura and Steve really believed their sister, and the ending was strange. On the other hand, it is true that in the 1950s, families were likely to keep their dirty secrets to themselves and not deal with problems. The best characters the author creates are contemporary kids (Anthony and Hannah, Zoey in Say When). They are believable and likeable. This is not something everyone can do, so I think if she had put more time and work into this book, it could have been really good. I'd give it 2.5 stars if allowed.	2005-03-16
US	52977633	RLXTCILPQAMFT	0743422449	876610287	Mercy	Books	2	28	31	N	N	The quality of mercy leaves a lot to be desired	I have read most of Jodi Picoult's books and reviewed some, and they were all outstanding. This is the first one in which I was really disappointed. After page 25, I knew a lot about one person's genealogy, another's high school reminiscences, an unknown person who had a tag sale of all her husband's stuff when he was away, and a few notes with no indication who wrote them or to whom they were written or what they had to do with anything. The story seemed to be constantly sidetracking. It took forever to cut to the action and then it would be interrupted by more distractions.<br /><br />I didn't get the point of having this book set in a town inhabited by an entire Scottish clan that emigrated together two hundred years before. Maybe there actually is a town like this, but it didn't ring true. By page 100, the names of the characters were making me nuts. It reminded me of Brigadoon where there is a song that goes something like MacGregor, MacDougall, Macduff and MacCoy, McKenna MacNeil and MacRae, etc. If she had set the book in Scotland, not everyone would have names like this. It was impossible for me to take seriously anyone named Verona MacBean. There also names like Watchell Spitlick (!)<br /><br />The plot seems far-fetched and unrealistic. The issue is a good one; there is a controversial case in the Florida courts right now. But smothering your wife and then pulling up in the main square to announce it to the whole town, with the dead body in tow-they didn't even do that in Brigadoon. You're kind of waiting for James to break into song at this point.  Allie hiring Mia and inviting her to stay in their house when she knows nothing about her and doesn't even ask is crazy. She could be a fugitive from justice, a serial killer, an illegal immigrant with no Social Security number, who knows. The police chief and his wife never lock their doors. I've never lived in a small town, but come on, this isn't the 1930s, where anyone would invite a passing transient in to have lunch with the family. The police chief secretly pays a lawyer to get his cousin off a murder charge while he participates in the prosecution? Wouldn't the court appoint an attorney?<br /><br />The book really isn't about euthanasia. It's about marital problems, flower arranging, New Age healing, people seeing ghosts, scenes that are repeated later in the story, and scenes that don't go anywhere. Verona seems like she's going to be a major character, but we hear nothing about her after chapter 1. Why didn't Picoult do some research on the real issue and treat it in depth instead of straying off into all this trivia? Anyone can write about extramarital affairs. It's as if she felt she had to fill 400 pages no matter what.<br /><br />This is the first time I've had to force myself to finish a book by Jodi Picoult. Neither the plot nor the characters captured my interest, and it didn't get any better. It's too bad, because she could have done so much more with the real subject matter instead of wandering off onto topics that may have interested her, but bored a lot of readers.n to have lunch with the family. The police chief secretly pays a lawyer to get his cousin off a murder charge while he participates in the prosecution? Wouldn't the court appoint an attorney?  <br /> <br />The book really isn't about euthanasia. It's about marital problems, flower arranging, New Age healing, people seeing ghosts, scenes that are repeated later in the story, and scenes that don't go anywhere. Verona seems like she's going to be a major character, but we hear nothing about her after chapter 1. Why didn't Picoult do some research on the real issue and treat it in depth instead of straying off into all this trivia? Anyone can write about extramarital affairs. It's as if she felt she had to fill 400 pages no matter what. <br /> <br />This is the first time I've had to force myself to finish a book by Jodi Picoult. Neither the plot nor the characters captured my interest, and it didn't get any better. It's too bad, because she could have done so much more with the real subject matter instead of wandering off onto topics that may have interested her, but bored a lot of readers. <br />	2005-02-28
US	52977633	R5UG2ED7KPLZX	B0006BQ9NU	648048135	The Rennlaufer	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Downhill Racer Dynamite	Here's another out-of-print gem that isn't always easy to find--but the author tells me it may be reprinted in the near future. The title is a German word for ski-racer and the story takes place at a remote ski resort in the Austrian Alps. The racing champion is a young man named Dieter Schnell (\\"fast\\" in German)and his parents own a ski-pension outside a small village. In the middle of winter, while Dieter practices for the world championship in downhill skiing, his parents have four guests. Baldur is a young north German architecture and design student. His wife, Freia (real name Ada Levin) is a Jewish-American girl from the edge of Beverly Hills. Stanley M is an old college friend of Freia's, who shows up in the same place entirely by accident. Herr von S is a former Nazi officer, also from northern Germany. Everyone has an attraction to Dieter. It should be noted that the book takes place in the period 1963-1965, so that prominent Nazis are still alive and young people such as Baldur would have spent their early years in the Hitler Youth. The war is much closer than it would seem to people today. The interaction of the characters is laced with delicious irony, and no one is who he or she seems to be. Freia is trying so hard to be more German than the Germans, except when it gets difficult. Baldur at first seems kind, loving and a bit dense, until his past is reawakened by some childhood friends. Stanley M doesn't speak German and is truely clueless as to the game he plays along with, to his peril. Herr von S is so diabolically clever, he outsmarts himself. The story builds against an impressive backdrop. A tragedy occurs, and people start to reveal themselves, building up to an ending of truly horrifying possibilities. Nina Galen is a brilliant writer, and I highly recommend this book. Although she uses German words at various places, I can tell you that she translates for English readers, and the usage is correct. Hopefully the book will be reprinted.	2005-02-22
US	52977633	R24Y7VSD2HPQXB	0880014113	156224444	The Primitive: A Novel	Books	5	2	2	N	N	thriller that should not be forgotten	I guess this is out of print, because I picked it up at a church sale. This author is a talented writer, nice and clean, keeps action moving, no factual errors that I could see, no unnecessary elements. A great story of a North Carolina tobacco town that is destroyed by a leveraged buyout of the main employer and plunged from prosperity to depression. This is not just backdrop but becomes an integral part of the plot. The main character stops to help a woman after a car accident and becomes more and more involved with her, without knowing her past or her identity. He risks his job, his marriage and maybe his life as he becomes obsessed with \\"helping her.\\" One secret after another is gradually revealed with a tremendous momentum building to the end. I think this is excellent writing, and I would hope people would still be able to get this book. It was written in 1995, and it definitely works as a period piece from the events that were taking place at that time. It works just as well today.	2005-02-08
US	52977633	R59F4VMZO2CTD	1569473315	642465093	Murder in the Sentier (Aimee Leduc Investigations, No. 3)	Books	5	32	35	N	N	I didn't want it to end...	and that's the truth. This is the best Cara Black mystery I have read yet. The plot and the details of Paris were so interesting I hated to have to put the book down to do something else (like eat or sleep). I'll add some personal reasons why this book appealed to me, since there are a lot of rave reviews already. First, I have spent time in many parts of Paris, but never the Sentier. I had just finished Sarah Turnbull's Almost French, a nonfiction book about an Australian who comes to live in the Sentier. While it gave me an overview, Black supplies historical and cultural details of the neighborhood that now make me feel I have been up and down every street. The book also comes with a map of the area so that readers can easily follow along.<br /><br />The German terrorists Black bases the story on were real. The Baader-Meinhof gang came to trial in 1975 and I was in Germany at the time. I still have the issue of Der Spiegel magazine that features the indictment on the cover. Much of the detail she uses about the fictional gang members is actually true. \\"Ulrike\\" would be Ulrike Maria Meinhof, a journalist turned terrorist. She actually did have a family, with twin daughters, that she abandoned. She was not a young student, however, but a woman over 40. She and others really were found hanged in their cells, and whether it was suicide or homicide has never been proven. \\"Marcus\\" is Andreas Bernd Baader, and he was in fact supported by Jean-Paul Sartre and other well known persons. For information on the real story, I recommend [...] This site is in English.<br /><br />Here is my one criticism: if an author is not fluent in a language (German), it is better not to use it or to have a German-speaker proof it. Spelling and grammatical errors aside, there are two things non-German-speaking Americans dont always know. One is that all nouns are always capitalized. I had to convince one of my bosses of this (in publishing) because he thought it looked \\"weird\\". Most importantly, English and German do NOT translate literally into each other, and one has to be very careful with idioms. A word in English can have five or six different meanings, while in German there may be five or six different words, one for each meaning. Please, Ms Black, dont get in over your head. It's not hard to make sure of the correct way of saying things, in any language you have your characters use. If you cant do it, use English. Readers will assume that a Russian is thinking in Russian, und so weiter.rtantly, English and German do NOT translate literally into each other, and one has to be very careful with idioms. A word in English can have five or six different meanings, while in German there may be five or six different words, one for each meaning. Please, Ms Black, dont get in over your head. It's not hard to make sure of the correct way of saying things, in any language you have your characters use. If you cant do it, use English. Readers will assume that a Russian is thinking in Russian, und so weiter.	2005-01-20
US	52977633	R35CYRZASSBC7B	0881845973	916671890	Don't Tell Alfred (Mitford, Nancy)	Books	4	10	10	N	Y	fun sequel to pursuit of love, but caveat	I enjoyed this book, but it has to be viewed in context. Readers not familiar with Nancy Mitford or the rest of the background will find the story dated, the characters confusing and much of the satire meaningless. It really is a prerequisite to read Pursuit of Love/Love in a Cold Climate, where most of the characters are first introduced. There have been two excellent productions of this work on PBS, one in the 1980s and one about two years ago. The book was written and takes place about 1955 in Paris, i.e., fifty years ago, so if one doesn't know or isnt willing to look up the political and social background, one also wont get much of the story. Fashions of the time play a role, with one of Fanny's sons being a \\"Teddy Boy\\" (I had to look this up on the web). French and English slang has to be viewed in the context of the 1950s. There was no European Union, or even a Common Market yet. Communism and the Cold War were in full swing.<br /><br />With all that warning, the writing is good and a lot of ridiculously funny situations occur. If you're a Mitford fan and an Alconleigh family fan, this will come off as a good period piece. But dont make it your first Mitford.	2005-01-12
US	52977633	RNS90TGTLMYG1	1862075654	301588700	Payback	Books	5	19	21	N	N	war is hell on the civilians	This book is fiction, but the author actually lived through the events described. The descriptions of people buried alive in air raid shelters, trapped in burning buildings, dying in graveyards while tombstones, coffins, and corpses explode around them are not for those with weak stomachs. This book depicts the firestorms and carpet bombing of a German city (probably Dresden or Hamburg). The same thing happened in many cities on both sides in the second World War (e.g., Warsaw, London, Tokyo). It is a profoundly wrenching story, and gave me the beginning of an understanding of what this must have been like. It's important to me because one of my best friends, now deceased, lived through this and would never talk about it. I'd give this book ten stars for graphic realism and it should be read by those fortunate enough not to have lived in a war zone.	2005-01-05
US	52977633	R316BPI4R0VZOQ	0395963494	15085847	Bay of Souls: A Novel	Books	2	8	11	N	N	Bad story	I find myself agreeing with some of the other reviewers. This book isn't poor writing style, but the story is so far-fetched, improbable and just plain unbelievable that this book cant be saved. There are two related stories, neither of which really works. First there is a group of professors deer hunting in the winter in a godforsaken part of minnesota (this is the characters' opinion, not to offend anyone). A few strange things happen, and the main character comes home to find his son has been lost in the snow. The son nearly dies, but miraculously pulls through. The main character goes on to meet a woman professor who has just come to teach at the college. She dresses exotically, comes from a ficitious Caribbean island, goes in for a little S&M, and he falls head over heels, despite his jealous wife and little son. After the woman tells him her brother has died of AIDS, has xtolen her soul and given it to a voodoo queen who died two hundred years ago, and how dangerous it is to walk around in a body without a soul (a recitation that would send most men running scared), he decides to pack up and go down to the island with her. Although it's hard to tell what is really going on, things get wilder and wilder, with Haitian voodoo ceremonies, Colombian drug gangs, Latin-American style juntas supported by the U.S. governement. At this point I felt the author was just letting his imagination run wild or he didnt know what he was talking about. If you've read this far, you'll have a hard time finishing, although I did. You''ll wish you hadnt. I cant believe people act like this.	2004-12-18
US	52977633	RYXSHTIGNNPL6	0671776134	362447474	Plain Truth: A Novel	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Another winner from Jodi Picoult	This is a wonderful book. No surprise coming from me when Jodi Picoult is the author, but this comes with something added: a setting in the Amish country of Pennsylvania and a wealth of information about the Amish and other \\"Pennsylvania Dutch\\" communities. As usual, the author did meticulous research, including staying on an Amish farm as her character Ellie does. This was a unique opportunity, but she made the most of it. You can see it with the attention to detail and the determination to get things right. While I had learned a few basics about the Amish during a family vacation (over 40 years ago!), I became  so interested that I started looking up web links to the Amish communities, religion and culture. I came away with a great respect for people that stick to their way of life and beliefs in a world that is getting more and more removed from them. The author dispels a lot of myths and misconceptions about the Amish as well. I particularly liked the character of Katie, who was trying to bridge the gap between the two worlds. In addition, this book may have been the forerunner of Second Glance, which I loved. One of the people in Plain Truth is a ghost hunter and several people have paranormal experiences. The author actually went out on ghost hunts to make this authentic. She works hard at creating a book, and she has excellent credibility. There isn't one of her books I havent liked, and I look forward to picking up the next one.	2004-12-04
US	52977633	R19XS8UJSY2OKU	0345467493	257610007	Death in Holy Orders (Adam Dalgliesh Mystery Series #11)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Plot, Characters, Background Equal Success on this One	I can't believe there are only 3 reviews, but I'll confirm what the others said. I have not liked all of P.D. James's books, but this one seems to be the crowning achievment of her lifetime. I generally read mysteries now only if there is a background theme that is of interest, something new I can learn about. In this book it was the Church of England. Being of the Roman persuasion, I found it interesting to compare the two religions and look at the similarities and differences. I also always like stories that involve authentication of art objects, which played a part in the murders in this book. The plot moved along well, and the author did keep me guessing right up to the end. She supported a large cast of characters, with any one of a dozen people as possible suspects. She had the normal couple doing the cooking and maintenance, and then she had Eric and Karen(!). She had a priest who had served a prison sentence for child sexual abuse, certainly a very timely issue. However, which I liked, she never spelled out whether he was actually guilty or had been framed. The person was written as a very sympathetic character rather than the evil stranger who lures kids into his car and then dumps them in a ditch. It gave the reader something to think about. She showed compassion for all of her characters, while at the same time giving many of them dark secrets. The location in East Anglia was interesting also, as this was the same area in which Dorothy L. Sayers set her bell-ringing classic, The Nine Tailors. The only criticism I have is that the motive for murder was not all that convincing. I believe other reviewers said the same thing. This was a great read and I blasted through it on a weekend without putting it down. I now want to see the video.	2004-11-23
US	52977633	RFFJZLO91WMF	0743261232	70528879	Maximum Security: A Crime Novel	Books	1	2	6	N	N	and now to the issue of credibility...	This book has none, and the author should know better. The prosecutor lets loose a stream of profanity in the judge's chambers, then perches on his desk to show off her good-looking legs. The associate bounds into bed on the first night with a client charged with murdering her husband and makes sure the cops find him there the next day. The financial planner thinks he can stand up in front of the judge and represent another person without being a licensed attorney. The judge lets anyone and everyone get up and start yelling about whatever they want, any time in the courtroom. The defendant is supposedly one of the top graduates in her law school class at Yale, but doesn't even know the basics, like when to keep her mouth shut. Maybe all this does go on in some jurisdictions, but I wouldnt want to try any of this behavior. Not to mention the lawyers trespassing and breaking and entering on the excuse that everybody just walks in everybody else's kitchen doors on the Cape. We had to pass a Multistate Exam in professional ethics for admission to the New York Bar. These people must have flunked it countless times. The evildoers in the book (who are in the majority)are unrelentingly evil. Anastasia and Lucifer (names out of Walt Disney's Cinderella, by the way) are so over the top they belong in a cartoon. There are unnecessary evildoers, like Marty's ex-husband, who shows up to curse everybody out and then leaves, with no further connection to the story. The dialogue is repetitive and \\"cute.\\" Finally, there is no mystery. The solution is so simple that for all the characters to miss it is absurd. You can spot if you know anything about wills (yes, that would be me). You don't have to be a lawyer, either. Nowadays you can learn this kind of thing by watching television. This is poor writing all the way around. I would not recommend it.	2004-11-16
US	52977633	R2QCMU433N46IJ	0375724591	516718361	The Pursuit of Alice Thrift	Books	4	2	2	N	N	The Elinor We Know Is Back	Elinor Lipman has not lost her touch. Although I was Deeply Disappointed with her Dearly Departed, her latest book gets us Lipman fans back on track. I enjoyed Alice Thrift tremendously, and unlike some people have said, she doesnt really give away the story at the beginning. Alice's being a resident in surgery at a big city teaching hospital makes for an interesting background and sets the scene for some wild incidents, as well as introducing a large supporting cast that keep things moving. These characters and the setting make up for the fact that Alice may not have quite as much pizzazz as some earlier Lipman heroines. However, Alice is capable of growing and learning, and that is a big part of what the book is about. I think Lipman actually took a step forward with this book, moving to a more serious story that still is laced with her humor. I also found the medical scene from the viewpoint of an overworked intern was interesting enough in itself. I'm sure there are some arrogant doctors like Charles around. I'm looking forward to Lipman's next book. Go for it.	2004-10-22
US	52977633	R19GQQILM5QG7X	038551185X	608080240	Angels Crest: A Novel	Books	5	1	4	N	N	Do NOT Miss This One	Superb and astounding--the initial plot involves a father who negligently leaves his three year old son in the truck for a few minutes while he follows some deer in the woods, resulting in the child's death. The underlying story is the portrait of a small northern California town, the tragic losses suffered by various characters, the legend of the angels rescuing five children during the blizzard of 1889, people's faith, people's inability to have faith, forgiveness, separation and reunion and the cycle of life and death. This author has created a masterpiece against a deceptively simple backdrop. I'd like to give a copy of this to everybody I know.	2004-10-17
US	52977633	R17HDBBOA2QLUF	0743454510	409444903	Second Glance: A Novel	Books	5	6	9	N	Y	Brava, Jodi!	I'm the biggest Jodi Picoult fan, but wow, am I impressed with this book. What a story! Some of the best plot twists she's ever done. If you are into the paranormal (like me--yes, I have had experience with ghosts), you're gonna love this book. If you are not, you will suspend your disbelief. She went on real live ghost hunts with pros to research this. The book introduced me to the pseudo-science of eugenics, which attempted in the 1920s and 1930s in this country to achieve \\"racial purity\\" and formed the model only a few years later for the Nazis'euthanasia and sterilization programs to weed out \\"inferior\\" traits. This was mentioned in the film Judgment at Nuremberg (based on real cases) but I'd never heard the term before and had no idea of the widespread movement in the U.S. Picoult ties all the characters and incidents together very well without making it seem pat or contrived, and there is no lack of action. I say it's one of her best novels.<br /><br />Now for the nitpicking criticism. One thing I thought was inaccurate was people drinking openly in bars in 1932 when prohibition was not repealed until 1933. One man freely tells the police he tends bar for a living and gives the name and address of the place. Not that cops wouldnt have known where speakeasys were, but prohibition is never mentioned. The other thing that bothers me is not unique to this author, but is becoming a trend with many fiction writers today: the \\"screenplay\\" approach where scenes are sometimes two paragraphs, and we cut to another scene with different people in a different place. I wish she would cut this down a little, it is distracting and frustrating when you try to follow what is happening. At least make the \\"scenes\\" longer. After all, these are not lightweight books. I feel my train of thought being constantly interrupted. Let's hope this technique dies out.	2004-10-02
US	52977633	R21BSCOI6UIR11	0316735485	919631242	The Hamilton Case: A Novel	Books	5	32	33	N	N	Author shows phenomenal talent	Some of the positive reviewers have already done a terrific job, I'll just emphasize a few points. First, this book is not a mystery, thriller or legal novel, although some people may get that impression from the title. There is not a lot of fast-paced action. That would be unsuited to the book, set in a hot, wet jungle climate mostly during the British colonial period. You can't read through it fast, because it is necessary to savor the author's use of language. This is a gourmet feast. If you have never been in a jungle at night, you'll learn exactly what it looks, sounds and feels like. Her description is strikingly original: the main character's brother-in-law has a hairy body. What the author says is \\"one longed to ask him if he'd had an accident with a bottle of hair restorer.\\" The idea of Sam trying so hard to be an Englishman, while the British would always see him as Sinhalese (when he gets off the train at Paddington, a woman immediately assumes he's a porter, although he's been a barrister for many years) reminds me of the predicament of Hari Kumar in The Jewel in the Crown. The story is very intricate, and it is necessary to read to the end to see what may (or may not) have really happened. There are plenty of ghosts (real and figurative)that haunt this family. I think it may be necessary to read this book more than once to fully appreciate it.	2004-09-17
US	52977633	RE8CIKDFOQTUA	0743418204	418870210	In Her Shoes: A Novel	Books	5	1	3	N	N	chick lit plus	I enjoyed this book so much. The author created a very dysfunctional family with accurate portrayals of certain disorders. The only thing I didnt buy was the character of Maggie. She is portrayed with all the classic symptoms of a psychopathic personality, which very generally involves an inability to experience emotions or to care about others. I dont believe this type of person is capable of changing, in fact there is no effective treatment. This is fiction, and the author can have any ending she wants, but I felt this was unrealistic in a book that seemed to me otherwise very realistic. This is a book to think about and even reread, and has more substance than much of the genre known as chick lit. Since so many people seemed to like her earlier book Good in Bed, I intend to get that one and read it. I hope we see a lot more from Jennifer Weiner.	2004-09-04
US	52977633	R3AFJBUWQON4KM	0425185508	112076379	Picture Perfect	Books	4	3	6	N	N	Good, but not perfect	I love Jodi Picoult. She is one of my favorite authors. I liked this book, but I wanted to like it more. There's nothing wrong with the subject matter. Domestic violence is a serious issue and people need to be aware of it. What got to me was the emotion that oozed from every single scene, the excruciating psychological agony every character experienced, the nonstop telling us how everyone felt. It's as if they were all overacting, and even if it does take place in Hollywood, the author should have resisted the temptation to descend into melodrama. Thr ending left me feeling it was a hopeless cycle, whether Alex and Cassie got back together or found other partners. I mean, go back and check out Will again. He's a lot more similar to Alex than the first read-through makes you think. He's a career police officer who lost one job--why? It's not the best book she wrote but it is by no means bad. I disagree that Strange Fits of Passion was better. In fact, that one was so awful I stopped reading anything by Anita Shreve. Jodi Picoult writes on a far more intellectual level. I'll go on reading her books.	2004-07-23
US	52977633	R1P7938JWORS49	0060959355	136587156	More Than You Know: A Novel	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Beloievable ghost story and great interweaving of tales	There have already been a lot of reviews of this book, so I'll just mention a few things. If you tell me about the supernatural, you're preaching to the choir. But this ghost story REALLY scared me, using the premise the dead can hurt you and worse. I actually left the light on last night. The writing is beautiful, but what impressed me most was that the author was telling two interrelated stories alternately, in different time periods, and managed to make both of them interesting without becoming an annoying distraction to the reader. This is not easy to do and I have read a lot of books where the author is less than successful at it. This is the fourth book I have read by this author, and I think it's the best. Definitely read this, but not at home alone on a dark and stormy night.	2004-07-05
US	52977633	R1J03SH8I944EM	0312311389	335750043	A Weekend at Blenheim: A Novel	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Dont listen to Publishers Weekly	I think for a first novel this is a terrific book. I can criticize the writing, especially since the author is an editor who works in publishing in New York. But dont let that stop you from reading the book! Here's what another editor in New York publishing (right down the street, Mr. Morrissey) thinks:<br />The description was wonderful. Far from skipping over it as I do with other writers, I read it two or three times so as not to miss any detail. Either the author spent a lot of time at Blenheim or he did a great job on the research. Not everybody can recreate the scene for readers without making it sound like hard work. It's a gift. Maybe some of the dialogue wont exactly set the world on fire, but I think here one has to cut the author some slack. It's not easy to reproduce conversation from a hundred years ago, and make it sound the way people actually talked. On top of that, he is writing about both British and American characters, who would speak differently. The chase scenes through the palace and all that action on the roof should keep people turning pages right to the end. Some reviewers complained about the characters. I'd like to make the point that sometimes people in a book, especially a narrator, are there to facilitate the story. The &quot;character&quot; everything revolves around can be a place or an inanimate object. I think this book is really about Blenheim and the effect it has on the people in the story. It gets rive stars from me and went a long way to make my weekend.	2004-06-21
US	52977633	RVJDRRQA2JBNC	0385336179	902335429	Shopaholic Ties the Knot (Shopaholic, No 3)	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Best Shopaholic Yet	If you enjoyed the first two Shopaholic books, you'll love this one. Sophie Kinsella just gets better and better. I feel like Becky Bloomwood is an old friend by now. Unlike some books in this genre, the author really lets you get to know the characters while creating intricately farcical plot situations that keep you reading to see how the problem will be solved. I was laughing out loud at various points throughout the book. I cant wait until the next one in the series comes out. Although I am less dazzled by the Plaza than Becky is (I'd call it imitation-elegant and I've been to many meetings there), I have to say if you are visiting New York or entertaining out of town guests, lunch at the Palm Court will be wonderful (Becky got dragged away from there.) And under no circumstances bypass dessert. Brava, Sophie!	2004-06-13
US	52977633	R2X1WYRD5786HD	0786016418	840445983	Kiss Her Goodbye	Books	4	10	11	N	N	suspense, atmosphere, plot twists	I'm a big fan of Wendy Corsi Staub. I may have grabbed the first copy of this book. In general, she's great at building suspense and atmosphere--for instance, she will make you want to get up and check that your deadbolts are locked. You may find yourself looking out the window to be sure no one is watching you. She is a master at throwing in plot twists. You think you just got a clue to who the killer is, and she throws you a contradiction. You end up suspecting just about everybody in the book. This time, however, I not only guessed the killer but also some other things before they happened. I gave this a 4 rather than a 5 because the story was just a little too neatly wrapped up as well as highly unlikely to happen the way it did in real life. Part of the fun of mystery/suspense/horror stories comes from things happening to ordinary people in ordinary situations, i.e. this could happen to you. I enjoyed the book, read it straight through (with some interruptions like going to work) but I think the plot could have been better. A lot of it seemed out of the 1950s rather than the 21st century. I'll be anxious to see what others think.	2004-06-05
US	52977633	R154BS3NXWSCDZ	0767914767	167500313	The Devil Wears Prada a Novel	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Good entertainment	I'm giving this four stars, after reading a lot of the bad reviews. Is this great literature? No. Will it be out of date in a few years? Yes. Is it fun to read? Yes. It's lightweight fluff, undoubtedly, along the lines of Shopaholic, Bridget Jones and High Maintenance, but sometimes that's just what I need. What did people expect? The Forsyte Saga? Anna Karenina? I think it was probably very realistic, and by the way, it does a good job of showing how much time and money goes into trivial nonsense in this world; shopping, fashion, Martha Stewart living. At least Andrea does a reality check once in awhile--a $40,000 dress? The annual income for a family of four? Face it, it's not a highly intellectual, constructive or creative world we're living in. People with the means to really accomplish something can't be bothered. Miranda thinks the Met is a place to entertain out of towners at a dinner party. Anyway, I thought the book was a funny look at the artificial worlds that have been created. I dont agree that this was bad writing, for a first novel. Ms. Weisberger was obviously writing what she knew. I was grateful to have her during a nightmare layover in the Chicago airport this week.	2004-06-02
US	52977633	R1OO7YTHGXBDMY	0312995423	201960968	Digital Fortress	Books	1	7	7	N	N	Worst I've Read in a Long Time	This is only my opinion, but I have trouble calling this a thriller. It certainly is no longer cutting edge (published in 1998), but that's not the author's fault. The rest of it is. For the first 200 pages, the action moves forward with all the speed of a dead horse. You aren't sure what the point is, and you don't care. What the action lacks in thrills, it makes up for in melodrama. There was one endless scene where the pretty heroine-crytographer is pulled back and forth between two men that is reminiscent of that old silent serial (Perils of Pauline? for you movie history buffs). The dialogue is ghastly and the  description is nonsensical. His jet black eyes were like coal? She was conservatively dressed in plaid pants? What was the author thinking? There is a whole lot of disgusting stuff we don't need to know, like a detailed description of the hero's several visits to a filthy public restroom. Finally, if a character is speaking a language other than English, the author should be sure to get it right. I can't tell you about the Spanish, but the German was pretty bad. I'm not paying full price for the DaVinci Code after this.	2004-05-26
US	52977633	R3FFUQE93MSAWJ	140220096X	164472143	Daughter's Keeper	Books	3	18	21	N	N	Not slush-pile, but not Pulitzer Prize s tuff either	I read this book through to the end and tend to agree with almost all of the previous reviews. The story (the plot) is interesting and compelling and kept me going. The author did make her point about the DEA and the federal sentencing guidelines and how the federal system eats the innocent and the amateurs, while the hard-core professional criminals are rewarded for ratting out others. I am a lawyer and this is not my field of work, but I did know a little bit about the subject. I say this because even I was horrified at the results obtained in the case the author described and I'm sure it is accurate. I think the book is worth reading just to open people's eyes. That said, the author's writing technique is not very good, use of m--dashes on every other page to break up runon sentences drove me crazy, as well as all the other things reviewers mentioned. I also felt that her characters were not well thought out or believable, particularly Elaine. If you're going to deliever such an important message, take the time to do it well,	2004-05-23
US	52977633	R218TFILG5CYPB	0345452550	330974377	A Cold Heart: An Alex Delaware Novel	Books	4	0	1	N	Y	Kellerman makes a great comeback...	I just finished this book and I thought the story was great, much better than some of the author's more recent ones like Flesh and Blood, Dr. Death. We had plenty of action, interesting characters, characters from other novels by the author, and new characters that show promise. Putting Alex in a new relationship is also refreshing. The plot was intricate, and I didnt guess who the killer was until Milo and the others did. Kellerman must read these reviews, because he cut out a lot of the monotonous and pointless driving around LA, Alex mooning over Robin, descriptions of what the dog and the fish were fed for dinner, and so on. The book never dragged, and the ending had a few surprises and a good set up for the next novel. The reason I didnt give this 5 stars was because it contained a horrible gaffe that is really inexcusable. The 1920s blues artist on page 185 was Blind Lemon JEFFERSON, not Blind Lemon Jackson! This kind of carelessness with details tends to taint the author's credibility somewhat.	2004-03-13
US	52977633	R1QL7BOIDR8POK	1400030382	321194841	The Piano Tuner	Books	2	4	9	N	N	t he style got me in the end	this is a book that i looked forward to reading, a novel about 19th century Burma in the colonial period<br />i'm sorry to say i couldnt finish this one either<br />the author has actually lived in Burma or Myanmar now, and some of his writing is really good<br />examples are descriptions of the scenes when the main character arrives in Rangoon, the visit to a local temple, and the walk home through London's dark foggy streets at the beginning<br />in the main, however, the book was far too slow moving and tedious<br />one of the very worst techniques was the main character reading (and forcing you to read) long official reports and legal documents word for word<br />this is like instead of describing a character's family home, i insert the whole abstract of title and let readers plow through it<br />i dont know what the long bizarre story of the arab man on the ship had to do with anything either<br />i may have found out later, but i'm not counting on it<br />some other reviewers'criticisms of this book may be a result of misreading<br />if readers think the dialogue is stilted, they can pick up any 19th century English or American novel and find dialogue even more stilted<br />it's no secret people were more formal and talked differently from the way they do today<br />it's not easy to weave history into a novel, but i dont think this book does a good job of it<br />anybody that wants to read a good novel on colonial burma should try George Orwell's Burmese Days<br />i'll look for a nonfiction book on this subject	2003-12-25
US	52977633	R1MFDVSPAZ88SS	0671830198	119319708	Lying Low	Books	1	4	8	N	Y	half of this book was enough	i loved diane johnson's other books<br />this one i couldn't even finish<br />although i lived through the period depicted, in today's world it seemed dated and irrelevant<br />halfway through i didnt know where the plot was going and didnt care<br />i felt no sympathy for the characters who seemed to be in messes of their own making, although everything was so vague it was hard to tell what was going on<br />i felt no sense of urgency or suspense about the story<br />how this could have been a national book award finalist is beyond me<br />i agree it was pretty awful	2003-11-30
US	52977633	RJYWAHWDJOSJX	0345450892	431887144	The Lake of Dead Languages (Ballantine Reader's Circle)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Good read, but plot line should have been better	The first think I really liked was the title! Puts the focus right where it belongs, on the lake and on the dead who it seems never let go. Although some people complained about weak characters, this book wasn't really about characterization, but about plot and mood. The author creates a great atmosphere, with the ice forming and breaking up, the winter storms, the ice house with doors opening right into the water. You can feel the chill (especially anyone who's ever been on the Northway in a snowstorm, gone to this part of upstate New York in January, or lived in a place where lakes do freeze solid). Combined with the insular environment and isolation of a girls' boarding school, the scene is set. I'm giving it 4 stars instead of 5 because of the plot twists. None of them surprised me, I guessed them all. I wouldnt call this a Nancy Drew, but the author should not have left such obvious clues, used more red herrings. It's too predictable, plus the ending (which i wont give away) is not only way too pat, it doesn't fit with the rest of the book. I read a lot of mysteries, and this was the author's first novel. I did enjoy the book, and I'd like to read more of this author.	2003-08-11
US	52977633	R19MQYCSWEREK6	0345450892	431887144	The Lake of Dead Languages (Ballantine Reader's Circle)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Good read, but plot line should have been better	The first think I really liked was the title! Puts the focus right where it belongs, on the lake and on the dead who it seems never let go. Although some people complained about weak characters, this book wasn't really about characterization, but about plot and mood. The author creates a great atmosphere, with the ice forming and breaking up, the winter storms, the ice house with doors opening right into the water. You can feel the chill (especially anyone who's ever been on the Northway in a snowstorm, gone to this part of upstate New York in January, or lived in a place where lakes do freeze solid). Combined with the insular environment and isolation of a girls' boarding school, the scene is set. I'm giving it 4 stars instead of 5 because of the plot twists. None of them surprised me, I guessed them all. I wouldnt call this a Nancy Drew, but the author should not have left such obvious clues, used more red herrings. It's too predictable, plus the ending (which i wont give away) is not only way too pat, it doesn't fit with the rest of the book. I read a lot of mysteries, and this was the author's first novel. I did enjoy the book, and I'd like to read more of this author.	2003-08-11
US	52977633	R2TO6GXVI51PYN	0345450892	431887144	The Lake of Dead Languages (Ballantine Reader's Circle)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Good read, but plot line should have been better	The first think I really liked was the title! Puts the focus right where it belongs, on the lake and on the dead who it seems never let go. Although some people complained about weak characters, this book wasn't really about characterization, but about plot and mood. The author creates a great atmosphere, with the ice forming and breaking up, the winter storms, the ice house with doors opening right into the water. You can feel the chill (especially anyone who's ever been on the Northway in a snowstorm, gone to this part of upstate New York in January, or lived in a place where lakes do freeze solid). Combined with the insular environment and isolation of a girls' boarding school, the scene is set. I'm giving it 4 stars instead of 5 because of the plot twists. None of them surprised me, I guessed them all. I wouldnt call this a Nancy Drew, but the author should not have left such obvious clues, used more red herrings. It's too predictable, plus the ending (which i wont give away) is not only way too pat, it doesn't fit with the rest of the book. I read a lot of mysteries, and this was the author's first novel. I did enjoy the book, and I'd like to read more of this author.	2003-08-11
US	52977633	R1TOEDTVI8LTRS	0375724583	133893239	The Dearly Departed	Books	2	5	5	N	N	not the great elinor lipman i know	I agree totally with the review of my fellow new yorker below. I love Elinor Lipman, but even the one other book of hers I didnt care for was better than this. It's as though she got another good idea, but wasnt really paying attention when writing the story. There are too many bit players in too many subplots that go nowhere. The main character is almost a complete blank. All we really know about her is she plays golf and seemed to have a rough time socially in high school. The main plot is also neglected. About halfway through I was asking myself, where is this going? What's the point? The usual snappy dialogue and feisty characters seemed to be watered down also. This is NOT typical Lipman. I found five of her other books to be excellent. If this is the first one you read, try one of the others. Even if you think this book is good, youll see how much better she can be. I'll try for better luck with her next one.	2003-07-27
US	52977633	R2H3C43LXKA7YW	1860465528	66124885	Trap for Cinderella	Books	5	6	7	N	Y	cant  get enough of him	Japrisot takes the mystery/thriller genre to another dimension. There aren't just plot twists, reading one of his stories is like taking a roller coaster ride with hairpin bends. You're never really sure what the answer is, and yet if you pay attention, maybe you are. When you think you've found an answer, it opens up more questions, revealing levels of complexity most writers never approach. What I particularly like is, he doesnt use exotic and high-flying settings like english manor houses, international espionage, the world of high finance, etc. Like that American genius Rod Serling, Japrisot's plots happen to ordinary people, a salesperson, a bank teller, a truck driver, a farmer. If his books dont hold your attention nothing will. Also the translations have been dynamite and lose nothing. When I run out of his books that have been put into English, I already am stacking up the ones only available in French. Everyone of the four I have read have been masterpieces.	2003-06-14
US	52977633	RA6O7CNYV3GJN	0758203055	111259670	Cha Cha Cha	Books	3	4	4	N	N	like her stories, one weakness	This is the third Jane Heller book I've read. As usual, I found her story and her heroine entertaining, and if you're in the mood for something light and enjoyable, this may do it. I'm starting to have problems with her characterization. While her heroines are funny, witty, smart, believable, the men they inevitably end up with (and they do always seem to end up with someone) are way too perfect. On the other side, most of the rest of the characters in each story, friends, coworkers, neighbors, bosses, relatives, whatever, are awful, evil, obnoxious and destructive. I know this is mass market fiction, but Heller's books are good enough that I wish she'd try for a little more balance. It would also help keep up the suspense of what will happen.	2003-06-06
US	52977633	R3O5DIUPEKE4CJ	0375704558	437002233	Charlotte Gray	Books	5	6	7	N	N	great story, good writing	I think this book was great writing for the most part. The description made me feel a part of the story, I could feel the freezing air going up in the plane with Peter, I was with Charlotte arriving in London for the first time after the blitz, I could almost taste the terrible wartime food. Good writing uses description to give the reader a clear picture of a setting, a character, a situation. Bad writing uses description to fill up paper without serving any other purpose, often giving detail that can be taken for granted. The book gives insight into French and British politics at the time, and how many ordinary people got trapped because of political maneuvering. I learned things I hadnt known about before. There is as much action as in any thriller and I dont see how people find this book boring. It is, however, not a light, fast read. You need to be prepared to give it some time and thought.<br />Juliens character didnt seem to me as convincing as it could have been. If he is in the Resistance, why does he take calls through the switchboard at work from members of the Communist Party and openly discuss roundups of Jews in Paris and the provinces? An operator on a plug-and-cord PBX board can listen to any call just by leaving the key open on the line. Even if French equipment was somewhat different, you would think hed know better. Worse, if because of his connections he knew as much as the author says about Jews being deported to camps in Poland, and suspected that people were not being sent there to work, it was strange he didnt take more steps to protect his Jewish father. He never even appeared to consider that his father might be in danger. He seemed much too trusting for a Parisian working in the underground. This one possible flaw should not deter anyone from reading the book.	2003-06-01
US	52977633	R3LQTGYG5Q4YLP	1559706058	214373991	Riot: A Love Story	Books	5	3	3	N	Y	first rate	This is an ambitious book that succeeds. Based on several real events, it encompasses the Hindu-Muslim conflict, centuries old, the history of India itself, American naivete, corporate behavior in foreign countries, and the tragedy of people deeply emotionally ... involved in a relationship that has no future. The author leaves the reader with the hope that diverse peoples in the same country won't end up the same way. The style, with multiple points of view and \\"chapters\\" in different formats, e.g., diaries, newspaper articles, narratives, dialogues as in a play, is very difficult to pull off, and most writers don't succeed. They end up losing and confusing the reader. This author makes it work. I give a book 5 stars when it provokes thought and curiosity, tells me about something new, and makes me want to learn more. This book did it all.	2003-05-12
US	52977633	R2QZRKP76CC9NL	0446679593	706464487	Suzanne's Diary for Nicholas	Books	2	0	1	N	N	throwback to 30 years ago	All you people who said this was not typical James Patterson were right. This is typical Erich Segal writing tear-jerker surface-level Love Story in the early '70s just to show he could do it and make money at it. I have to say this book was pretty schlocky, but if you want something that reads fast (which I did this week) and enjoy reading about the perfect lives of yuppies, by all means pick it up. James Patterson is capable of much better writing. I got the book free from someone else, so I dont feel I was taken. If you like romance, family stories, personal tragedy, whatever, there is much better stuff out there to choose from. And if you like Patterson, he's published better stuff, too.	2003-05-02
US	52977633	R8PI3GKZJ59ES	0345433491	562456905	Hanna's Daughters: A Novel (Ballantine Reader's Circle)	Books	3	1	2	N	N	mixed feelings	People seem to either love or hate this book. Since there are a lot of reviews already, I'll just discuss what I think are the pros and cons. I loved the description of the Swedish landscape and countryside, and this is definitely a country I'd like to visit. I also found interesting the life of the people from the 1800s to the early 1900s. Most people have heard of the terrible famine and poverty in Ireland, and know that is why a lot of Irish people emigrated. Probably far fewer know about the same conditions existing in Sweden, unless that is their ancestry. The book describes a way of life most of us can barely imagine. Hanna and her husband pushing and pulling the plow because they can't afford a horse, even though she is pregant and he is sick, because if they don't they will starve, along with the children they already have. Hanna's mother's first four children died of starvation. This happens today in many parts of the world, but people dont usually identify it with Sweden. You can see why people emigrated, they had no future. Life as a farmhand or a servant was probably much worse than the book portrays. Here are the negatives. The translation didnt do it. The title, not the original title, really didnt make sense. Hanna did only have one daughter. Dialect is a function of spoken language. When it is written, it is almost always cumbersome and awkward to read, and after awhile gets annoying, and that is in the original language. DIALECT DOESNT TRANSLATE. Forget about it. There is no way to effectively render Bavarian German or Mandarin Chinese or any other regional or ethnic dialect effectively into English. In this book it came out sounding like repeated use of poor grammar, and it got old. Much better to say that a person comes from a certain area and speaks that dialect, and maybe give a few examples of differences in words and expressions. It was more effective to have Hanna ask Ragnar when he came home speaking standard Swedish instead of the dialect whether he had learned a foreign language. Johanna's character, as well as Arne's, was confusing and inconsistent. I dont care about an author's personal politics, but I dont think she got much of anything across with these two. Also there was a tendency to move very slowly, then suddenly skip 50 years or cover World War II in two or three pages. The book seemed very uneven. It was also distracting to have characters not only with similar names, but many with the same name. There are two Johannas, plus a Johannes, plus two Johns, two Annas, two Rickards. The author said she writes for herself and not the audience, and I guess in many ways she is right.	2003-04-30
US	52977633	R1S4RUZ8W2UH0W	0345433491	562456905	Hanna's Daughters: A Novel (Ballantine Reader's Circle)	Books	3	16	20	N	N	mixed feelings	People seem to either love or hate this book. Since there are a lot of reviews already, I'll just discuss what I think are the pros and cons. I loved the description of the Swedish landscape and countryside, and this is definitely a country I'd like to visit. I also found interesting the life of the people from the 1800s to the early 1900s. Most people have heard of the terrible famine and poverty in Ireland, and know that is why a lot of Irish people emigrated. Probably far fewer know about the same conditions existing in Sweden, unless that is their ancestry. The book describes a way of life most of us can barely imagine. Hanna and her husband pushing and pulling the plow because they can't afford a horse, even though she is pregant and he is sick, because if they don't they will starve, along with the children they already have. Hanna's mother's first four children died of starvation. This happens today in many parts of the world, but people dont usually identify it with Sweden. You can see why people emigrated, they had no future. Life as a farmhand or a servant was probably much worse than the book portrays. Here are the negatives. The translation didnt do it. The title, not the original title, really didnt make sense. Hanna did only have one daughter. Dialect is a function of spoken language. When it is written, it is almost always cumbersome and awkward to read, and after awhile gets annoying, and that is in the original language. DIALECT DOESNT TRANSLATE. Forget about it. There is no way to effectively render Bavarian German or Mandarin Chinese or any other regional or ethnic dialect effectively into English. In this book it came out sounding like repeated use of poor grammar, and it got old. Much better to say that a person comes from a certain area and speaks that dialect, and maybe give a few examples of differences in words and expressions. It was more effective to have Hanna ask Ragnar when he came home speaking standard Swedish instead of the dialect whether he had learned a foreign language. Johanna's character, as well as Arne's, was confusing and inconsistent. I dont care about an author's personal politics, but I dont think she got much of anything across with these two. Also there was a tendency to move very slowly, then suddenly skip 50 years or cover World War II in two or three pages. The book seemed very uneven. It was also distracting to have characters not only with similar names, but many with the same name. There are two Johannas, plus a Johannes, plus two Johns, two Annas, two Rickards. The author said she writes for herself and not the audience, and I guess in many ways she is right.hether he had learned a foreign language. Johanna's character, as well as Arne's, was confusing and inconsistent. I dont care about an author's personal politics, but I dont think she got much of anything across with these two. Also there was a tendency to move very slowly, then suddenly skip 50 years or cover World War II in two or three pages. The book seemed very uneven. It was also distracting to have characters not only with similar names, but many with the same name. There are two Johannas, plus a Johannes, plus two Johns, two Annas, two Rickards. The author said she writes for herself and not the audience, and I guess in many ways she is right.	2003-04-30
US	52977633	ROAXPF604TDVR	1881896021	157256497	Strangers Always: A Jewish Family in Wartime Shanghai	Books	5	2	2	N	Y	different view of the second world war	This book is the memoir of a young woman from a Russian Jewish family growing up in Shanghai during World War II. The setting is multicultural, multilingual and multiracial, and the author provides fascinating details from the history of a city that no longer exists. Shanghai had Chinese, White Russian, French, British, American, German, Iraqi and many other citizens. The author lived there under the Japanese occupation, but this is not a Holocaust story. Some people were interned and imprisoned, and there was some anti-Semitism, but there were no mass deportations to death camps or a \\"final solution\\" as was taking place in Europe. The city was full of refugees from many governments, including Nazi Germany, Communist Russia, Fascist Italy and Franco's Spain, as well as \\"stateless\\" people, many of whom had escaped to China following the Russian Revolution. The author documents publications of the day, Japanese propaganda, and news from the U.S. and its allies. She also explains well what happened to various people later, what rumors turned out to be true or false, and gives her sources. First-rate research, good writing, and an interesting story add up to a great read. I add that I read this after becoming interested in pre-Communist Shanghai after reading Kazuo Ishiguro's When We Were Orphans. If you liked that book, try a real-life version!	2003-04-19
US	52977633	R1WT3TC63BN9YO	1881896021	157256497	Strangers Always: A Jewish Family in Wartime Shanghai	Books	5	4	4	N	Y	different view of the second world war	This book is the memoir of a young woman from a Russian Jewish family growing up in Shanghai during World War II. The setting is multicultural, multilingual and multiracial, and the author provides fascinating details from the history of a city that no longer exists. Shanghai had Chinese, White Russian, French, British, American, German, Iraqi and many other citizens. The author lived there under the Japanese occupation, but this is not a Holocaust story. Some people were interned and imprisoned, and there was some anti-Semitism, but there were no mass deportations to death camps or a \\"final solution\\" as was taking place in Europe. The city was full of refugees from many governments, including Nazi Germany, Communist Russia, Fascist Italy and Franco's Spain, as well as \\"stateless\\" people, many of whom had escaped to China following the Russian Revolution. The author documents publications of the day, Japanese propaganda, and news from the U.S. and its allies. She also explains well what happened to various people later, what rumors turned out to be true or false, and gives her sources. First-rate research, good writing, and an interesting story add up to a great read. I add that I read this after becoming interested in pre-Communist Shanghai after reading Kazuo Ishiguro's When We Were Orphans. If you liked that book, try a real-life version!	2003-04-19
US	52977633	R1FT9WGKWXVSA9	0312979886	724183614	Female Intelligence	Books	4	1	1	N	Y	enjoyed every page	A few years ago I read Heller's The Club and loved it. Then I somehow forgot her and was reminded by a friend who'd just reviewed this title for amazon. This book is a really fun read, and it makes some good points without being preachy--i.e., that both men and women have a lot of the same faults and both can change for the better if they want to. I particularly enjoyed the major characters. Personally, I'd go out with Brandon Brock in a New York minute, even before his sensitivity training. He could call me Honey at a Yankees game too. I'm going to start looking at the other Jane Heller books I've been missinng.	2003-04-10
US	52977633	R3FFP083IR7H99	0140276238	186887370	The Undertaking: Life Studies from the Dismal Trade	Books	2	7	19	N	Y	m ind-wandering	I found this book extremely difficult reading. The author is, he says, a poet and a funeral director. I wouldnt exactly call the chapters essays, because they wander all over the place in a stream-of-consciousness format, completely losing the reader as to what the point is. One chapter covers his brother's sanitation service business, suicide, homicide, abortion, assisted suicide, Jack Kevorkian, rape, birth, death, the baby boom, the author's own moral, religious and political views on all of the above--if this were an essay, there would be some structure, arguments and a conclusion. Instead this looks like a diagram for the study of chaos theory. None of the chapters seem to have any relation to the others. One is about (as far as I can tell) invention of the flush toilet. Another is about combining cemeteries with golf courses. Another is about building a bridge to the cemetery in the author's town after the old one fell into the river. Is any of this serious? Most of the book is the author's philosophizing, but often I wonder if he knows what he's talking about.<br />There are also a lot of spelling and grammatical errors, that further detract from the text. I've read lots of interesting books on the funeral profession, but this isnt one of them.	2003-04-08
US	52977633	RI9LKXZI4EMOY	0061030635	648069616	Wild Justice (Amanda Jaffe Series)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	good story, but too much like his last one	I'm giving this four stars because of the action packed plot and interesting characters, and in general i feel this author is one of the better ones writing in the legal thriller genre.<BR>My problem was this: the theme, basic plot and even certain details are too much like Gone But Not Forgotten for me to be shocked, scared, horrified this time.<BR>Yes, the characters are different people, but there are a lot of similarities (young female attorney starting out, man who looks like the obvious villain with criminal background)<BR>It seems Mr. Margolin is getting mired in kidnap/torture/serial murder scenarios, even using the same MOs.<BR>while I enjoyed the book and had looked forward to reading it, I feel like I've just read the same book twice.	2003-02-08
US	52977633	R2EOH9XQP2LM2B	0553581929	138360553	Special Circumstances (Mike Daley, Book 1)	Books	4	1	1	N	Y	terrific style, good courtroom scenes	I really enjoyed this book, from Chapter 1. Mike Daley talking to me, the reader, expresses a lot of the same reactions and in many of the same words I would myself. This book sticks so well to procedure if I ever need to try a criminal case in California I may use it as a manual (I'm kidding, but the testimony, the objections, the rulings, the weighing of the evidence I really couldnt fault. I really like the character of the trial judge, they should all be so competent and fair. The author might have moved some of the action a little faster, but thank God he didnt spend pages and pages on voir dire, and every juror's life story as some authors of this genre do. In a novel that is boring. If you think the obnoxious big firm partners were an exaggeration, I can tell you I have met attorneys like Art Patton and Skipper Gates and Hutch the video man. I liked this book much more than Incriminating Evidence. Even the surprise ending, given some of the scumbag characters we were dealing with, was plausible. Here's what I didn't care for or fully understand: what is this with the main character being an ex-priest? It had little or nothing to do with the story. I have several friends who are divorced from each other and live happily together, Mike and Rosie's situation didn't bother me. I'd like to see their daughter have more of a role. I wasn't sure what the point was of having Mort on the team, and leave halfway through it. These are not real flaws in the book. Treat yourself to an enjoyable read, and if youre not one of us despicable lawyers, don't worry, the author does a great job of explaining legal jargon in layman's terms.	2003-01-18
US	52977633	RP03FGDUQJFJU	0452277809	648554746	One Deadly Summer	Books	5	11	11	N	N	Dark Side of Provence	Get this book if you can find it! A real twister of a plot, an atrocity committed 20 years before, a member of the next generation planning total revenge...every time you think you know what's going to happen, you're taken down another road. A plot skilfully woven with everything gradually revealed, up to a gut punch of a horrifying ending. The ramifications of this story are still occurring to me the next day. It's one of the few books I will keep to reread. The setting of the scene is also wonderful--if your idea of Provence is Peter Mayle's Hotel Pastis or Chasing Cezanne, try a taste of Japrisot for different point of view. If you like contemporary French authors, dont miss it.	2002-12-29
US	52977633	RHAA3VPQDK0V7	034541389X	466482043	Flesh and Blood (Alex Delaware)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	love alex delaware series	I love kellerman's alex delaware novels, have read just about all of them. One of the best things about them is the way he covers the map in L.A., every street, every neighborhood, all kinds of people from all walks of life. Alex, with a power of observation that may rival sherlock holmes's, tells you every detail of what every person looks like, including what they are wearing. with some authors this is tedious, but kellerman really gets me to picture every scene as if i were there. The biggest flaw in this particular book was that certain famous people were so thinly disguised i thought i was reading something by dominick dunne. If any of these stories are based on something that really happened, it should be on people and events that are a little-less well-known. Also, i thought it was about time alex and robin's relationship had a reality check, he could have taken this even further. Through most of the books it's a continuous round of gourmet meals, fine wine, fabulous sex, no money worries, and perfect harmony. We should all be so lucky. Still, the story captured and held my interest, and i like the character of milo a lot. He helps carry this one.	2002-11-22
US	52977633	R1IYMA2L3N7HD7	034541389X	466482043	Flesh and Blood (Alex Delaware)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	love alex delaware series	I love kellerman's alex delaware novels, have read just about all of them. One of the best things about them is the way he covers the map in L.A., every street, every neighborhood, all kinds of people from all walks of life. Alex, with a power of observation that may rival sherlock holmes's, tells you every detail of what every person looks like, including what they are wearing. with some authors this is tedious, but kellerman really gets me to picture every scene as if i were there. The biggest flaw in this particular book was that certain famous people were so thinly disguised i thought i was reading something by dominick dunne. If any of these stories are based on something that really happened, it should be on people and events that are a little-less well-known. Also, i thought it was about time alex and robin's relationship had a reality check, he could have taken this even further. Through most of the books it's a continuous round of gourmet meals, fine wine, fabulous sex, no money worries, and perfect harmony. We should all be so lucky. Still, the story captured and held my interest, and i like the character of milo a lot. He helps carry this one.	2002-11-22
US	52977633	R3VJD844XAV5UG	031225394X	725330135	The Idealists: A Novel of Revolutionary Russia	Books	3	3	3	N	N	Story doesnt live up to backdrop	When you have a novel set against some tumultuous period in history such as the French Revolution, the US Civil War, the Holocaust, or in this case, the Russian Revolution, you expect a story with some depth to it. There are books set in times and places that I have never personally experienced, but after reading the book, I feel I had been there in person. This book is not one of those. A lot of the history (which I've read) is accurate enough, but the characters are flat as cardboard, and I never felt they came alive. I had trouble figuring out their motivations, they ended up seeming like victims of their own incredible naivete. The skeleton in the family closet was predictable, not shocking to a 21st century audience, and really did not further the story. This is not a long book, which may also be part of the problem. I realize not everyone can produce a War and Peace or a Doctor Zhivago, but I felt this novel didnt rise above the mediocre. I felt the authors barely scratched the surface of the subject matter.	2002-10-29
US	52977633	RMXC2D0C9R586	0804113424	810638307	House of Blues (Skip Langdon Novels)	Books	3	78	82	N	N	author's trends are disturbing	I have read most of Julie Smith's Skip Langdon novels, and enjoyed some of them. Her later ones are starting to bother me. There are way too many subplots going on, at the middle of this book I had forgotten all about the main thread of the story until the author suddenly brought it up again. She also uses multiple points of view, which works in some books, usually long epic stories, but in a short mystery it is jarring and distracting. I see some reviewers of 82 Desire questioned whether she was also doing racial stereotyping or at least not portraying black characters realistically. To be honest, I wondered about that also, both in that book and House of Blues. I am white and have only had two brief visits to New Orleans, one in 1969 and one in 1995, so I don't have personal experience to draw on. However, it seems to me that if anyone is going to write about something they dont know, or that they themselves are not, they should at least run it by people who do know to make sure the story has some credibility. Based solely on my reading, I also felt many of her black characters appeared stereotyped and two-dimensional. She seems to be trying to draw an all-inclusive portrait of the city and its population, but it would be good to know that readers were getting an accurate picture.	2002-09-29
US	52977633	R2OMODUBE4OJJ9	0679771867	223977650	The American Way of Death Revisited	Books	5	1	4	N	Y	Dead on Target!	I've read the earlier version, but everyone should read the update. Good practical advice on how to protect yourself as a consumer. Subject matter is great--from the 1885 National Funeral Directors embalming contest, with a $1000 first prize for the best-looking decedent after 60 days, to the wonderful Batesville Burping Casket. It's only too bad that another update can't be arranged in the future via Ouija board broadband with the author!<br />Seriously, do yourself a favor and get this.	2002-08-24
US	52977633	R2QYFOLFJ0A29Q	0679771867	223977650	The American Way of Death Revisited	Books	5	3	6	N	Y	Dead on Target!	I've read the earlier version, but everyone should read the update. Good practical advice on how to protect yourself as a consumer. Subject matter is great--from the 1885 National Funeral Directors embalming contest, with a $1000 first prize for the best-looking decedent after 60 days, to the wonderful Batesville Burping Casket. It's only too bad that another update can't be arranged in the future via Ouija board broadband with the author!<BR>Seriously, do yourself a favor and get this.	2002-08-24
US	52977633	R3J1NH61PFDXDZ	0618082360	522471250	The Fall of the Year	Books	5	4	4	N	N	vintage mosher; the magic Kingdom	The Fall of the Year is a wonderful book, especially for dedicated Mosher Fans. I'd like to point out to first-time readers of his novels that his masterpiece is A Stranger in the Kingdom and I strongly recommend reading that first. Most of the people in the town and county where his books are set are featured in considerable detail in that book. That is the place to really get to know them, so that when you pick up one of his other books, you recognize the person being written about and have a better understanding of his/her character. Also, don't be surprised that he sprinkles many of his books with touches of the surreal or supernatural. You wont get a concrete explanantion of some of these phenomena, but it's obvious that Kingdom County (real life Orleans County, Vermont) is a magic place for him and he makes both wonderful and terrible things happen there. I'm proud to own every one of his books, I was hooked after A Stranger in the Kingdom and even led my book discussion group in it a few years ago. You can re-enter a time and place that is fast disappearing from this country; many things about the way of life he describes are already gone for good. But dont pass up Mosher, whatever you do. If you read this book and felt you didnt get much out of it, read Stranger in the Kingdom and then come back. All his books run through the whole history of the area and are worth having as collectors items.	2002-04-20
US	52977633	R1TF2M80SPXWCT	0671527932	347421310	The Light Years (Cazalet Chronicle)	Books	4	5	6	N	Y	Author created an entire world, but too much detail	I enjoyed this book and it made me want to read the others (after having been introduced to the series by Masterpiece Theatre). The author really did create a world here, and follows up with every character, rather than just presenting one main character's point of view. It gave me a feeling of getting to know each person over time, as though I were another guest in the household. Particularly interesting was the backdrop of international events and Chamberlain's appeasement of Hitler over Czechoslovakia. He is almost universally condemned for it today, with the benefit of hindsight. The reactions of the characters, and Britain's being so unprepared for war one doesnt hear about now. The one thing I didn't like was the author's compulsion to mention every single thing that happened, every move that everyone made, every bite at every meal. It got tedious after awhile; some things can be assumed. She should not mistake description of every breath taken for action.	2002-04-13
US	52977633	R306374JE7C67F	0156001314	444581246	The Name of the Rose: including the Author's Postscript	Books	5	2	2	N	N	needed latin translation	There are already plenty of reviews of this amazing book so I just want to add my voice to those readers who missed out on a large part of the book because it was in latin. While the particular characters in that time and place no doubt did use Latin, whole pages and paragraphs of it become impossible for many of today's readers to follow. There ought to have been more translation, especially in a mystery where the facts are important, and given the underlying themes of the book. Readers shouldn't have to buy a guide that costs more than the original book to understand what is being said.<br />This is my one criticism. I found the book fascinating, learned a great deal and had trouble putting it down. I have no trouble giving it 5 stars, latin or not.	2002-02-19
US	52977633	R1S5078C4JM3N1	0312283474	360390420	So Far Back: A Novel	Books	5	3	4	N	N	great story of charleston	I really enjoyed this read. I've read a lot about charleston, been there several times and had one of my most memorable(!) ghost experiences there ! This ghost story was to me utterly believable, and i loved the history of the two families intertwined over 200 years. The tourists usually see the beauty of charleston, the historic district, the antiques, the culture, the flowers, etc. This author reminds us that there was a not so beautiful side of life in this city, whether one was black or white. She brings to life the horrors of slavery and lynchings, as well as the killer climate with its heat and dampness, hurricanes and storms, poisonous snakes, the epidemics of diseases like yellow fever that struck year after year when there was no cure or treatment, and the deaths of many, including children and babies, from causes such as kitchen accidents, ulcers, and other then-unknown reasons. This gives the book a balance and makes it realistic. The main character learns to look a little deeper, and so will you. And i'm cheering for Diana--read the book and find out why.	2001-12-16
US	52977633	R3KLQFWAZ72GJL	0345434765	256253688	Dark Justice	Books	3	0	1	N	N	good action page--turner, but problems	I always have enjoyed the Ben Kincaid series. While the incidents in the story are supposedly based on real events, some of the actions and characters are a little hard to believe. The ending becomes very far-fetched and all loose ends are tied up neatly. You have to suspend disbelief at a point. Real life doesnt generally work that way. However, it is fiction and it is entertaining, and it does bring to some people's attention the complexity of environmental vs. economic problems. I suggest reading one of the author's first books before starting this one, so that you can get familiar with the recurring characters.	2001-12-02
US	52977633	R1CH2XVOQUTP3P	0316789844	35085155	Resistance: A Novel	Books	2	2	4	N	N	do not waste your time	Everyone says to write about what you know. The problem here is not that a present-day American author can't write about another country in another time. It has been done, and the situation described in the story could have happened. The problem is just poor writing. The plot was was as conveniently contrived as a bad made-for-TV movie. The characters never really came to life. Instead of listening to people, I was reading the author's painful constructions of words. The style and sentence structure throughout are absolutely abominable. Anyone who thinks this is the best World War II novel they have read should try something with more substance by authors who have mastered the craft. Try Herman Wouk, John Hersey, Leon Uris. This is a very slight cut above supermarket-checkout lane paperbacks. Even this particular author has done better in some of her other books. I would have considered this a first rough draft. And for people just getting into reading, I'd like to say the more different books you read, the better you get at being able to tell good writing from bad. This is dreck.	2001-10-21
US	52977633	R1JBHVQ5T14T4T	0316789844	35085155	Resistance: A Novel	Books	2	1	3	N	N	do not waste your time	Everyone says to write about what you know. The problem here is not that a present-day American author can't write about another country in another time. It has been done, and the situation described in the story could have happened. The problem is just poor writing. The plot was was as conveniently contrived as a bad made-for-TV movie. The characters never really came to life. Instead of listening to people, I was reading the author's painful constructions of words. The style and sentence structure throughout are absolutely abominable. Anyone who thinks this is the best World War II novel they have read should try something with more substance by authors who have mastered the craft. Try Herman Wouk, John Hersey, Leon Uris. This is a very slight cut above supermarket-checkout lane paperbacks. Even this particular author has done better in some of her other books. I would have considered this a first rough draft. And for people just getting into reading, I'd like to say the more different books you read, the better you get at being able to tell good writing from bad. This is dreck.	2001-10-21
US	52977633	R3ENJYP9UGP48R	0452281784	128488664	Bad Heir Day	Books	4	2	3	N	N	absolutely fabulous	This was a totally fun and entertaining read.Some people here are making the mistake of taking the characters too seriously. Cassandra reminded me so much of Jennifer Saunders' character Eddie on Ab Fab. I thought it was a great takeoff on the media, the fashion world, the rich and famous and the wannabes. If you have a depressing weekend ahead (this time we had the remains of Tropical Storm Allison) this should pick you up nicely. Definitely recommended for Britcom fans this side of the Atlantic.	2001-06-18
US	52977633	R1ET557AD5S3TE	0879727292	370070089	In the Zone: The Twilight World of Rod Serling	Books	3	41	43	N	Y	For Zone addicts only and maybe not then	Don't even bother to read this book unless you have seen all or most of the TV shows and/or have memorized Marc Scott Zicree's Twilight Zone Companion. The author presumes extensive knowledge on the part of the reader. I've been a fan of Rod for almost 40 years, and I found this book difficult. The author does make some interesting points and new insights, but they get drowned in his stream-of consciousness style that is constantly jump-cutting from show to show and point to point without continuity. The book struck me as disorganized, even though he has chapters with names. Another irritant is his criticism of production errors, when his own writing and editing is inexcusably sloppy. He constantly gets details wrong, especially characters' names. This is important because he seems to find meanings in each person's name that I'm not sure Serling even thought of. He expounds on the meaning of the name Christopher, when the character is actually named Christian. In an episode involving two brothers, he mixes up the names repeatedly in discussing the plot. A character named &quot;Jeff&quot; he often refers to as &quot;Jess&quot;; unfortunately there is another episode with a main character named Jess, in which the same actor starred. He nitpicks about background noises from microphones and bandaids on actors' fingers until it makes you crazy. I also disagree with some of his premises. I think Serling did want the show to be about the paranormal rather than everything being projected in the characters' own minds. I believe in the paranormal; I get off the train right where Willoughby is supposed to be. Part of the wonder of the show is that the paranormal exists side by side with a very normal setting--the point is the episode could happen to you, with a little imagination. The author seems to lack this quality.	2001-05-04
US	52977633	R1P4MDB0F5Y53S	189795932X	81359434	Shebeen Tales	Books	5	5	5	N	Y	Hard to find, worth the wait	I learned of this book through reading Mr. Hove's editorials in the Zimbabwe Weekly Standard online. He is an outstanding writer and this book is a series of essays on Zimbabwean life in the 1990s. For anyone who is interested in what is happening there now, the book provides essential background. The country's problems are not new. It is often difficult for American readers to find books by contemporary African authors, and I highly recommend this one. I also recommend checking out Zimbabwe's independent papers on the Web: The Standard, the Daily News, the Independent, and the Financial Gazette. Congress is now pushing through major legislation on Zimbabwe, and the U.S. press barely mentions the country. The British press focuses on limited aspects of the situation. Read what this author has to say, he knows what he's talking about.	2001-04-28
US	52977633	R3KIOLX3NMBKW6	0253212936	49939396	Scroll of Agony: The Warsaw Diary of Chaim A. Kaplan	Books	5	54	55	N	Y	an eyewitness and a master storyteller	This is the 4th Warsaw ghetto diary I've read and the 3rd I've reviewed. If I had to do it over again, I'd pick this one first. The author was a teacher and more than just a recorder of events. He was a gifted writer and master storyteller who was never deluded for a moment about what was going to happen and who never lost sight of the universal perspective. He writes in a wry, almost sarcastic style that makes his point effectively as he blasts the Nazis, Polish and Jewish collaborators, corruption in the ghetto, etc. He had me asking myself deep questions as I was reading. He constantly refers to the Nazis he encounters as stupid people. It shows how dangerous stupid people can be when given power. At one point, he says cruelty is a sickness that can affect whole communities and even entire nations. You see from his writings how contagious a sickness it is, and the more that violent, sadistic, atrocious behavior is permitted, the more it occurs. He vividly shows what can happen when people lose their sense of outrage. He knew what was going on at Sobibor and Treblinka and that the people being &quot;resettled&quot; were not coming back. He never trusted the Nazis, saying only evil can come from evil people. Who can argue with that when you are talking about people who lied up to the minute they closed the door of the gas chamber behind you? The last line in the book is &quot;If I am taken, what will become of my diary?&quot; He was not afraid of dying, but afraid that all his effort would be wasted. Well, it wasn't wasted. If only one more person reads this book on the basis of this review, I'll feel I have done my belated bit for a man who had real guts and unfortunately didn't live to see the ultimate survival of his people.	2001-04-12
US	52977633	R1NFYO2X932DXJ	0688169783	182078128	The Days of the French Revolution	Books	5	86	87	N	N	1790s Paris, You Are There	This is a great book to learn about the French Revolution. It's full of interesting characters and packed with nonstop action. The author doesn't analyze or judge from the vantage point of an armchair 200 years later. If you want to know what sort of people Marie Antoinette, Robespierre, Marat, Danton, and other names from history were, you'll hear it from their friends, enemies, relatives, neighbors, servants and clients. You get the feel for what it was like to be a lawyer, butcher, restaurateur, farmer, journalist in 18th-century France. You'll find out what it was really like to be imprisoned in the Bastille, to be pounding on your husband's locked door while a mob was trying to break your bedroom door down, to get up on a table and address a a riotous crowd for the first time in your life, and even what it felt, looked and sounded like to be guillotined. The author doesn't intrude on the story at all; he lets the facts speak for themselves. He doesn't moralize, you reach your own conclusions about what happens when mob rule takes over, when violence generates more violence, and the rules of law and order are abandoned. This is one of the best written history books I've read in a long time, as absorbing as any novel. I'd have hated to miss it and it's a great way to learn.	2001-03-23
US	52977633	RYC6NCELBPKS5	0809571056	780262501	Ghosts of the Trianon: The Complete "an Adventure"	Books	5	8	9	N	N	Add to my Review	This fall (10/5, I believe) it will be one hundred years to the day that Moberly and Jourdain saw the Ghosts of Versailles. I expect to be there around then and if I get a chance to lurk around the Petit Trianon and see anything, I'll add to this review. I thought I'd point this out to anyone else planning to be in Paris at the time. Ghosts seem to like me, the chances are good. Watch for my next review on The Days of the French Revolution, another 5-star.	2001-03-23
US	52977633	R3ROGJTWX58NT9	0609607995	769420448	IBM and the Holocaust: The Strategic Alliance between Nazi Germany and America's Most Powerful Corporation	Books	2	62	96	N	Y	This Case Not Proved	IBM may be guilty of what the author claims, but he doesn't prove it, and admits at the end that he can't. As far as this book shows, Thomas Watson was not a fascist (by the author's own admission) and his motive was making money, period. There is nothing to show his priorities included killing Jews and others, propagating a &quot;master race&quot;, or making the world safe for National Socialism. The technology was in Germany long before Hitler came to power. Watson was certainly amoral and an arch-capitalist who played both sides against the middle to win, but this book did not convince me he was an advocate or an engineer of genocide.<br />The author also doesn't stick to the point. He retells everything that went on in the world from the 1860s to the 1940s. The point is not what the Nazis did (most people are aware of this), but what IBM did.<br />One of the biggest problems I had with this book is that so much is written with the benefit of hindsight. He seems to think the entire population of the U.S., all the Jews in Germany, everyone in Europe, and often the whole world &quot;knew&quot; what was going to happen. I can't believe that when Hitler published Mein Kampf in the 1920s (before he was even well known) that the whole world should have foreseen Auschwitz 20 years later. I have trouble with the idea that because a census of the population was taken in 1933 in Prussia that everyone should have envisioned the &quot;final solution&quot; first discussed at Wannsee in 1939.<br />IBM's relationship with the German company it bought was always adversary. Thomas Watson, after &quot;insulting&quot; Hitler by returning a medal he had earlier been awarded by the Third Reich, was in the author's words, &quot;persona non grata&quot; in Germany. He was certainly not privy to the Nazi government's top secret plans about the destruction of the Jews and the implementation of death camps in Eastern Europe. He may not have been disturbed about it if he had been, but the book doesn't show it. IBM was not IG Farben, at least not based on this material.ook doesn't show it. IBM was not IG Farben, at least not based on this material.	2001-03-18
US	52977633	R2UED691GHEDS5	1566632307	564012407	The Warsaw Diary of Adam Czerniakow: Prelude to Doom (Published in association with the United States Holocaust Memorial Museum)	Books	5	50	52	N	Y	Worth the read--but get the background first	This is the daily diary of the man who was the head of the Judenrat (Jewish Council) in Warsaw during the Nazi occupation and most of the ghetto period. Czerniakow was misunderstood by a lot of people, and to avoid this I suggest some background reading about the ghetto first (Emanuel Ringelblum's Notes from the Warsaw Ghetto, Bogdan Wojdowski's Bread for the Departed, John Hersey's The Wall (fiction)). This is because Czerniakow does not give a lot of detail about life in the ghetto (and occupied Warsaw before the ghetto) for the ordinary person. It does not at all mean he was unaware of conditions; he was trying to do an impossible job and please everyone at the same time: the ghetto residents, the other council members, the profiteers, the Polish city administration, the German army, and the SS. That he accomplished any positive goals at all is remarkable and his story must be looked at from that perspective. It comes across clearly that he acted according to his conscience and put his personal concerns last. Without the introductions and the supplementary notes the diary might be difficult to understand, as Czerniakow did not always put down full names or explanations and kept entries brief. It was suggested he may have been afraid of it falling into the wrong hands with good reason. Therefore, I would say it takes a reader with some knowledge of the ghetto period and the Nazi occupation of Poland to get the fullest understanding from this book. I do on that basis give it the highest recommendation.	2001-03-13
US	52977633	R8VYWTP3KC6EQ	0192833227	13409988	The American (Oxford World's Classics)	Books	5	24	28	N	N	Fabulous story, French vs. American culture shock	I have this friend who hates Henry James. I can't understand it. The style is dated, in that people dont write that way today, but as you get into the book you begin to enjoy the style, as well as the plot, characters, and French/American dual culture shock that still goes on today. (For an update on the theme, look at Le Divorce and Le Mariage by Diane Johnson). I couldn't wait to see what was going to happen to these characters and the description of Paris in the Second Empire were fascinating. If you watch the Masterpiece Theatre version without having read the book, you will be totally confused. They moved events out of sequence all over the place and after about ten minutes I shut off the tape and picked up the book. You have to know the whole story before you watch them throw characters and events at you in the first two scenes that only appear 2/3 of the way through the novel, after a foundation has been laid as to who they are and when and why things happened.<br />I couldnt recommend this more for a good read. The only caution I have is for readers who have never been to France. They may get an extremely negative impression of French people from many of the characters in this book. Go to Paris and you will find the city is wonderful, and so are the French people. These characters are not typical!! They belong to a certain class, and the book does take place 150 years ago. If this book doesnt get you hooked on James, I dont know what will. Try Washington Square and dont miss that movie, with Jennifer Jason Leigh, Albert Finney and Maggie Smith.	2001-02-09
US	52977633	R2CXQ866Y5BE41	067976402X	877433184	Snow Falling On Cedars	Books	3	3	4	N	N	difficult to follow	I'm about 1/4 of the way through this and am determined to finish it as it won an award and rave reviews from my friends. But it's like struggling through quicksand. The problem is not that the author can't write. I wish I could write as well as he does. His description is gorgeous! What bothers me (as with many books I read lately) is the constant use of flashbacks, which are far too long and detailed. In the middle of testimony in a court case that I still know almost nothing about and that does not seem to be following a set procedure, do we need to go back into everyone's past, including their parents' and grandparents' entire histories? Do we really need to explore every single childhood trauma, teenage romance, illness, death, birth, etc? What does it add to the story that one character's father died of a heart attack while sitting on the toilet with his pants down long before any of the significant events took place? Why do we need pages of description of the addresses and living conditions and landladies of every boarding house and farm where another character's parents lived? Do we have to hear about someone's entire college curriculum in another city where he doesnt interact with anyone else in the story? Characters are real to authors and they invent family histories for them (writing for fun, and certainly not as well as Guterson, I do this myself). However, nowadays they don't seem to be able to cut parts that may have interested them, but don't further the story line. The switching of &quot;time zones&quot; back and forth, especially when it is done for every character, is disorienting and distracting. Some things may be relevant, others are not. A really good writer should also take the time to edit or work with an editor.	2001-01-20
US	52977633	R2SSPAL72XPG6B	037570275X	990721402	Bicycle Days	Books	3	6	7	N	N	Good premise, ineffective rendering	The story of an American transplanted into Japanese society is a fascinating idea, and the author's descriptions of Tokyo and Japanese life and customs lived up to my expectations. The main character (Alec) however, seemed to be a stereotypical insensitive American, with not much feeling for anyone but himself. The other thing that got to me was the alternating of stories from Alec's childhood with the main action. It seems to be a popular technique, telling two stories in one, but it's not easy to pull off. In many of these novels, including Bicycle Days, I felt the author kept interrupting me in the middle of what I was interested in to drag me back to obscure past incidents that seemed irrelevant. As a reader I find this irritating. The only way it works is if the past story and the present one are equally interesting, or if the past contains some secret that is gradually being revealed and the author is building up the reader's suspense. Otherwise, divorced parents, loneliness at boarding school, sibling rivalry, the terrible angst of a rich WASP in New England, have been gone over so many times in so many books that this is no more than excess baggage.	2001-01-12
US	52977633	R3GS18GBV1E06	0767903579	648018356	Falling Leaves: The Memoir of an Unwanted Chinese Daughter	Books	4	4	5	N	Y	Personal memoir, no more, no less	I enjoyed this book, even if I didnt always like the narrator. I'd like to comment on a number of the negative reviews. A lot of people seem to forget that a personal memoir is one individual's experience, seen from his or her perspective. This book was not meant to tell the history of China, give an in-depth analysis of the political situation over the last 50 years, or be a definitive work explaining Chinese culture. The author came from a well-to-do merchant family in Shanghai. The book would have been completely different had she been from a working-class family in Beijing or a farm family in one of the inner provinces. All she was doing was relating what she experienced. Since she was a small child at the time of the Second World War, obviously she would not have the same memories and reactions had she been an adult. Her family left for Hong Kong at the beginning of Communist rule and she was educated in Western countries. What experience would she have had of the Mao era and the Cultural Revolution? These readers have unrealistic expectations here as to the scope of the writing. It's like expecting The Diary of Anne Frank to give the same comprehensive coverage of the Holocaust and the war in Europe as maybe Shirer's The Rise and Fall of the Third Reich. It's also important to remember that one person's experiences don't define an entire country or culture. The writer doesn't have to be a wonderful person or even a likeable person. The best thing that can come of reading another person's memoir is making the reader curious to learn more, particularly from other points of view. In that, at least with me, the author succeeded.	2001-01-02
US	52977633	R3K6E67IMDTKF4	0688169686	120644687	Island Justice	Books	3	0	1	N	N	I can wait for this author's next work	One reviewer alleges this is a thinly-disguised true story, in which case a rave review from Dominick Dunne is no surprise. Unlike many others, I didn't have as much trouble with the ending as the beginning--two-thirds of the way into this book I still didn't know or care much about most of the characters and wondered what the plot line was supposed to be. I disagree that these people were realistic; many did not have enough substance and seemed to be there just for background, including &quot;Maggie&quot;. I really had a hard time believing Dennis and Sam, both way too perfect to be true. They were always strong, handsome, intelligent, caring, sensitive, good in emergencies, good at lovemaking, always around when needed...and available yet. One has a charming Irish accent and the other is an Italian gournet cook who always has every ingredient handy. These two men stepped out of daytime TV. On the other hand, while Al fit the textbook pattern of a control freak, abusive husband, he had no redeeming qualities at all. I wondered why Anna married him in the first place. The author did do a great job on the description and creating the atmosphere of the island, but she has a long way to go on plot and characters.	2000-12-29
US	52977633	RYW6CLVMZ5SMW	0688177867	127493012	The Book Borrower: A Novel	Books	4	3	3	N	N	good book-within-a book	The book-within-a-book technique is not easy, but this author kept me interested in both stories and both sets of characters, who come together in the end. The one thing I did find confusing was the author's use of names. One of the main characters is always referred to by her last name (yet called by her first name when other characters speak to her). Her son is given a silly nickname for no apparent reason. The author of the book the characters read, Trolley Girl, changes her sister's first name in the memoir, but keeps the actual last name and everyone else's first names the same. The sister later turns up using a completely different first and last name. I'm not sure of the reason for all this, but it made the book harder to follow, especially as one story was embedded in another.	2000-11-22
US	52977633	R2T7WK7A28VW3O	0810114569	217393143	Bread for the Departed (Jewish Lives)	Books	5	5	5	N	Y	grphic description of life in warsaw ghetto	This book is labelled fiction, but it is actually autobiographical, and stands up to any non-fiction written about the Warsaw ghetto during 1940-1942. It takes a strong stomach to read this book, because the author has a real eye for the most graphic detail and spares the reader nothing. At the end, you wonder how so many people survived as long as they did under such conditions. The story is told from the point of view of a child (which the author was at the time. It's not a pretty book, but it gives the most realistic picture I've seen yet of what ghetto life really must have been like.	2000-11-19
US	52977633	R2GFPY6HE4GGKL	014018936X	277311248	Mr. Sammler's Planet (Penguin Twentieth Century Classics)	Books	5	1	2	N	N	deep and fascinating	This review is to refute some of the negative customer reviews. Anyone who is reading only for plot is reading on a very superficial level. I had never read Bellow and didnt know what to expect. After a few pages, I wasnt sure I wanted to continue, but I'm glad I did. I felt this book was, among other things, like opening a time capsule from the late 1960s. I did not at all feel the author was preaching his own views or that the characters were not developed. The author delves deep into the mind of a well-educated man who is a Holocaust survivor, living in New York when the city was decidedly at a low point and confronted with hippie-era social and political attitudes. I don't know if this story is autobiographical, but it is not plotless, dull or stupid. I urge potential readers to ignore those comments.	2000-10-08
US	52977633	RVMM10Y7K18NG	072481129X	596193606	My Mother's Diamonds: In Search of Holocaust Assets	Books	4	1	1	N	N	interesting coverage from australian point of view	As a U.S. reader, I had heard a lot in the media about the attempts to recover assets taken by the Nazis, particularly Swiss bank accounts. This book is not the most comprehensive work on the subject. However, it focuses on Australian Holocaust survivors, and discusses their efforts to regain all types of property from all over Europe. It makes the important point that it was not just the Swiss and not just bankers who profited from the Nazi atrocities. The narrative is interspersed with stories from people who lived through the war and managed to get to Australia. Any personal account makes history much more compelling, and the stories are well told. The author also makes the point that it isn't always easy to get property back, even with documentary proof--what may have been a factory during the war might now be a housing development with a lot of people living in it, who had nothing to do with the Nazis' seizure of the original property in the 1930s or 1940s. The author certainly makes the case that some compensation is due and maybe long overdue. The reason i did not give this a five is that the writing/editing is very sloppy, misspelled words (in English and other languages), grammatical errors, and missing words in the text on almost every page. This, however should not deter anyone from reading the book. Everyone can learn something here.	2000-10-06
US	52977633	R2CSKIVP95J0SA	072481129X	596193606	My Mother's Diamonds: In Search of Holocaust Assets	Books	4	0	0	N	N	interesting coverage from australian point of view	As a U.S. reader, I had heard a lot in the media about the attempts to recover assets taken by the Nazis, particularly Swiss bank accounts. This book is not the most comprehensive work on the subject. However, it focuses on Australian Holocaust survivors, and discusses their efforts to regain all types of property from all over Europe. It makes the important point that it was not just the Swiss and not just bankers who profited from the Nazi atrocities. The narrative is interspersed with stories from people who lived through the war and managed to get to Australia. Any personal account makes history much more compelling, and the stories are well told. The author also makes the point that it isn't always easy to get property back, even with documentary proof--what may have been a factory during the war might now be a housing development with a lot of people living in it, who had nothing to do with the Nazis' seizure of the original property in the 1930s or 1940s. The author certainly makes the case that some compensation is due and maybe long overdue. The reason i did not give this a five is that the writing/editing is very sloppy, misspelled words (in English and other languages), grammatical errors, and missing words in the text on almost every page. This, however should not deter anyone from reading the book. Everyone can learn something here.	2000-10-06
US	52977633	R24FQWN203G87M	0395924871	845740110	Shtetl: The Life and Death of a Small Town and the World of Polish Jews	Books	5	34	34	N	N	detailed, unbiased analysis of complex subject	I give this book 5 stars. The author has rejected myths, generalizations, and prejudiced thinking to give a fascinating history of Polish Christians and Polish Jews. She is careful to give the viewpoints of both groups, beginning in the Middle Ages and continuing to the present. When she quotes a source, she reminds us that this is that person's opinion, not necessarily a universal truth. She cites to references in Polish, Yiddish, and Hebrew. She does not condemn or defend either group, and realistically argues that neither was right or wrong; some people helped each other, some people harmed each other. She gives a detailed account of the history of Poland that is not widely available in this country. The author is both Polish and Jewish, and grew up in Poland. Her ability to abjectively at her subject is convincing and admirable.	2000-10-01
US	52977633	R3VYTKZYIXSOR8	0671015648	249435806	Isabel's Bed	Books	3	2	5	N	Y	Not as good as usual	First, I am one of Elinor Lipman's biggest fans. I have read every one of  her novels and especially loved The Ladies Man and Inn at Lake Devine. So I  expected more than I got from Isabel's Bed. Elinor Lipman has a unique  talent of putting obnoxious, sometimes weird characters into bizarre  situations and making you enjoy every minute until somehow it all works out  in the end. But this time, by page 300, I felt I still didnt know or care  much about Harriet, the narrator. I think this book was too long and  involved with too many things going on. The result was characters that were  flat and forgettable and a plot that stalled. Lipman's usual formula might  have worked better if she had just told Isabel's story and cut out Harriet  and all her baggage. Maybe Isabel should have dispensed with the  ghostwriter and written her book herself. Still,Lipman's writing after this  one has been fantastic, and I can't wait for her next book. I guess this  one is the exception that proves the rule.	2000-09-12
US	52977633	R2VO1YDLDEBO7L	1582340757	811064658	The Prayer of the Bone	Books	2	3	6	N	N	Disappointing	I was disappointed in this book. The plot was so vague and slow-moving I  wondered if the author was making it up as he went along. For a murder  investigation, there is little investigating going on, maybe because the  British author didn't know (or didn't research) U.S. procedure. There is  way too much stumbling around in the snow and fog contemplating life and  death and sexual fantasies that don't get anywhere. A major problem is the  author cannot seem to get American dialogue right. He makes it difficult  for both himself and the reader by writing in the third person and  constantly switching the point of view between English, American and Native  American/Indian characters. The result is people living on the reservation  sometimes sound like they're in a London drawing room, sometimes like a bad  cowboy movie. The omniscient point of view is particularly confusing  because of the language difference. Do you use British English for the  thoughts of an American character? It becomes very distracting. The sex  seems to have been put in just to have a few sex scenes; it is neither  necessary nor relevant. There is practically no action, and none of the  characters come across as convincing. The ending seems like an  afterthought. I expected much more. This author was compared to Stephen  King, but Stephen King lives and works in Maine and knows what he's talking  about. Write about what you know, or know about what you write!	2000-09-05
US	52977633	R2ES1R6TOM04FC	0060930535	951868170	The Poisonwood Bible (Oprah's Book Club)	Books	5	1	1	N	Y	not to be missed	I read (and think I reviewed this when it first came out in hardcover). I loved it and the consensus among everyone else I know who has read it has been unanimous. Fascinating characters, nonstop action, great historical  setting. Well worth the read.	2000-06-23
US	52977633	R11OEEMJGDB8UT	0809571056	780262501	Ghosts of the Trianon: The Complete "an Adventure"	Books	5	35	36	N	N	you can find it and you should	Let me start by saying I just came home from Paris where Ipicked up this book in French at Versailles and read it late everysingle night! If you want it in English, amazon.uk will special order it. I first saw this as a movie on PBS, &quot;Mrs. Morison's Ghosts,&quot; about 20 years ago and never forgot it. At the time I didnt know if it was fiction or nonfiction and couldn't find the book because the title was different and the authors did not use their real names for the first edition. This book, published first in 1911 and many times since, was a best seller in England and France. &quot;les Fantomes de Trianon&quot; or &quot;Ghosts of the Trianon&quot; not only includes the original story, but the painstakingly detailed research the authors did to track down and authenticate everything they had seen, their three subsequent visits to Versailles, and various analyses of their experience, which amounted to stepping across a time warp. As my version points out, mankind has conquered the speed of sound and the speed of light, so why shouldn't we someday be able to break through the barrier of time? I found both the book and the movie thrilling and thought-provoking. This story has not had the publicity it deserves.<br />By the way, I've hung out in the gardens of Versailles on two occasions so far, and both times there were repairs in the area of the Petit Trianon, so I wasn't able to see if I could duplicate their experience. If I ever do, I'll let you all know!	2000-05-17
US	52977633	RX34KUS3HB5ZM	0965187926	389070090	The Empty Quarter	Books	5	9	9	N	Y	Exciting, entertaining, credible read	This excellent thriller set in the uninhabited desert of Saudi Arabia on a drilling rig tips you off right away that the writer has both been in the situation himself and done meticulous research. The book is packed with  action and fascinating interaction, between men from various countries  working for an American/Arabian oil company. There are constant clashes of  culture, race, religion, nationality and personality in one of the most  isolated situations possible, where the people involved are forced to work  aas a team, no matter how they may feel about each other. I particularly  enjoy fiction that teaches the reader something about a new subject, in  this case oil and gas drilling. The author thoughtfully provided a picture  of the works at the front of the book, with many of the parts labelled.  Even though it is fiction, I would have also liked some kind of glossary of  technical terms. But I sure can't fault the writing--this is one of those  books I just blasted through without wanting to put down, and one I can't  wait to lend to family and friends. Good books are  made to share!	1999-12-24
US	52977633	R2LL8LQWN9T33O	0312161190	817282431	The Rise, Corruption and Coming Fall of the House of Saud	Books	5	27	33	N	N	excellent expose from inside circles	This book is well-written, well-documented and important. The author (who is writing from a country outside Saudi Arabia, but is himself a Saudi) minces no words in discussing the history, government and Royal Family. My  personal view is that it is important to read books about other countries  that are not authored by Americans. While this country has much more  freedom in what is allowed to be written, read, published and broadcasted  (the chapter on the Saudi press was very chilling), the media here tends to  oversimplify many issues, and people don't take the time to hunt out other  sources. Thus, another country is our &quot;friend&quot; one day in the  news, the next they are &quot;the enemy&quot; and politics, foreign loans,  arms deals, and all sorts of other goings-on are not really explained. This  author explains the reasons behind everything that has been happening in  the Middle East from 1900 on, and I certainly learned a lot about the Gulf  War. In addition, I have read several books from the women's viewpoint in  Saudi Arabia (e.g., Princess, Eight Months on Ghazzah Street), but this  shows what is going on with the men in the ruling class. The author also  did a good job of convincing me that the Saudi people may not be of one  mind with the Royal Family, and that ordinary citizens can be subject to  many abuses. Anyone who is interested in the Middle East ought to read this  book. Informative, compelling and convincing.	1999-12-12
US	52977633	R1L16T6OS63HJJ	015600710X	403499621	Strange Fits of Passion: A Novel	Books	2	19	23	N	N	addendum to last review (also mine)	I'm glad someone has found my review helpful. There was too much vagueness and obscurity surrounding this plot. While in the 1970s, there were few resources for battered wives (as they were then known) and i myself spent  many frustrating nights on the phone with women who were afraid for their  lives and had nowhere to refer them, let alone do anything concrete to help  them out of their problems, the author seemed to me to get lost on the way  to deciding what she wanted to say. I'd like to recommend Anna Quindlen's  Black and Blue or even Sleeping With the Enemy (forgot author name) for  more realistic plots. Even a lightweight author like Belva Plain did a good  job of showing the effects of domestic violence on families in Whispers.  This story line (in life) is not and should not be romanticized or shrouded  in description of weather, nature, countryside, etc. If you are on the run,  with children especially, I doubt you are concerned with these things.  Shreve is a skilled writer, but she needs to get out more into the real  world--she kind of reminds me of her heroine in The Pilot's Wife when she  discovers what is really going on under her nose. Again i dont judge all  her books by this one.	1999-12-09
US	52977633	R1DMMH7FJNGE5B	015600710X	403499621	Strange Fits of Passion: A Novel	Books	2	19	29	N	N	slow moving, improbable and cluttered	This is one of the few books I was not able to finish. The author is capable of very good writing; I really enjoyed The Pilot's Wife. However, this book moved so sluggishly with so many unnecessary incidents and  characters that I got impatient. The gimmick of using another person  writing a magazine article AND a flashback is confusing and renders the  story far less effective than if the main character (Maureen) had told it  straight herself. The multiple points of view of minor characters add to  the confusion, as well as the main character's use of a different name. I  do know about domestic violence, first hand, through friends who have  survived it, and as a crisis-line counselor for several years. I found it  unlikely that the character would conveniently begin an affair within a few  days of running away with no plans, after escaping an abusive husband who  was likely to be jealous and paranoid. I think the author could have done a  much better job of addressing the issues. This book should have had me on  the edge of my seat and I was so bored by it I skipped to the predictable  end. In fairness to the author, this was written about nine years ago. I  would try her again on the strength of The Pilot's Wife.	1999-11-24
US	52977633	R2I4S5ZJ03K18Y	158195008X	821991146	Cracks	Books	2	4	11	N	Y	disappointing, depressing and dull	i see that others have given this book five stars, which is why i bought it, but the truth is i'm sorry i did. i actually had trouble finishing it.  there was so much foreshadowing from the jacket blurb to the reviews to  every sentence on every page to every mosquito buzzing through the air,  etc. that i was finally guessing what was going to happen and wishing they  would get it over with. i never liked any of the characters, and in fact  the author did not give us anything to like. i read all the time, including  many south african authors. i think a much better novel on the same theme  was Marita van der Vyver's Childish Things. it could be that this  particular book is just not for me, but i am unlikely to pick up any of  this author's other works.	1999-10-23
US	52977633	R1Z40FYORM6FJ6	0440226104	337409677	Black and Blue: A Novel (Oprah's Book Club)	Books	5	0	0	N	Y	Photorealism	Reads like a thriller, keeping you on the edge of your seat all the way, but unfortunately, this story is a daily reality in too many families and relationships. What impressed me was the way Quindlen dealt with the  frequently asked question of why the abused person doesnt just leave.  Because they may become fugitives, afraid for their lives every minute,  because they cant ever lead a normal life, because the abuser is likely to  stalk and trace them and do further harm, including killing them. In this  story the abusive husband was part of the legal system: a police officer.  The system sides with the abuser and the spouse has nowhere to turn. I  agree with another reviewer that this story should be told more often. Two  others with similar plots are Sleeping With the Enemy and Whispers (by  Belva Plain).	1999-07-10
US	52977633	R2Q6CP7IIHG0B9	037570485X	610660223	The Inn at Lake Devine	Books	5	1	1	N	Y	a serious sujbect effectively treated with a comic touch	I started laughing out loud in the first chapter when Natalie began her retaliations against the anti-Semitic Mrs. Berry at the Inn. I found myself alternately laughing and crying with the characters throughout the comic  and tragic events of Natalie's life. Brains are not Mrs. Berry's long suit,  as is apparent from the first offensive letter she sends Natalie's mother;  but though she is more stupid than evil, she still has the power to hurt  people, including herself. Natalie finds, however, that her Jewish  relatives are hardly free from prejudice against others, when they boycott  her sister's wedding to an Irish Catholic, nor even among themselves  (Natalie's grandmother disdains her future son-in-law because he drives a  fruit truck, at which point her husband recalls that she herself is the  daughter of a rag dealer.)Mrs. Berry never does quite get it. Despite the  older generation and some real tragic events, the book builds to a  wonderful finish and makes you want to see all the kids of Natalie's (and  my) generation succeed all the way.	1999-07-05
US	52977633	R1RM0XNCZ4O0ZC	0679750703	202923996	Havana Dreams: A Story of a Cuban Family	Books	5	10	10	N	Y	story of an anything-but-ordinary cuban family	I thoroughly enjoyed this book. I dont see how anyone can find it boring, and I am not of Cuban descent. Gimbel gives a fascinating picture of 100 years in the life of one Cuban family-and not just any family, since one  member had an affair with Fidel Castro and a daughter by him. Gimbel was  not telling the story of her own childhood, and she deserves credit for not  letting it interfere with the subject family's story. Her Cuban background  and early life in pre-revolutionary Havana does give her credibility and  explains her access to these people at all. She gives enough of a  historical and geographical persepective of the country to make me want to  know more, and her detailed descriptions allow the reader to visualize each  scene in detail. This book should not be taken as representative of the  entire country over the last century--a different family could probably  have told a very different story. The author makes an effort to remain in  the background and let the people in the book tell her their feelings.  Gimbel has certainly captured my interest with this book.	1999-07-04
US	52977633	R2JCZ0RV883KII	0393009610	890444139	Foreigner	Books	5	27	28	N	Y	culture shock;exile;uncertainty:formula for a great read	I've been a fan of Nahid Rachlin and her portrayls of Iranian women for some time. Like another reviewer, I couldn't put this book down. In Foreigner, Rachlin explores culture shock (as Feri first feels it as an  Iranian studying in the U.S., and then on her return years later to Iran,  where it seems as though she is stepping back several centuries, both in  people's way of life and way of thinking (e.g., the attitude toward women).  When she becomes ill, she has to deal with the fear that medical facilities  may be nothing like what is available in the States. In culture shock, she  also re-experiences the difference in Eastern and Western ways of thinking.  Rachlin makes very clear the unhappiness that comes with exile from one's  own country, even if a person is forced to leave for the sake of his/her  freedom or even life, and yet, on return to that country, it is never quite  the same as remembered. Feri's uncertainty, feeling of being pulled in  several directions, and reluctance to follow in her mother's footsteps are  entirely understandable. What I find intruiging is this book was written  (and takes place) right before the overthrow of the Shah and the Islamic  revolution. Feri's decision to go or stay could make an interesting sequel  for this book.<br />Nahid Rachlin's writing is exquisite; she lets you picture  Iran in detail even if you have never been there. Her work ought to be  publicized more, to give readers a better understanding of the culture and  country that she came from.	1999-06-20
US	52977633	R2TJXB7E8P2UDO	1884910173	287545070	Address Unknown	Books	5	13	14	N	Y	the horrors of the Hitler reign in a few letters	I was so impressed with this book. It's only a few pages, letters between two partners, one a Jew in America and one who becomes a Nazi in Germany. The &quot;addressee unknown&quot; stamp says it all, just like &quot;night  and fog&quot;; the disappearance of people into a void. It evokes a  chilling horror, but what was even better was the revenge story, in which  the Jewish man proved just how wrong his partner was about the  &quot;Semitic race.&quot; This book can be read in an hour or less, but  you'll think about it a lot longer. Brilliant.	1999-06-09
US	52977633	R2FFGAIBQOK2H1	0880016728	588655450	Summer at Gaglow	Books	3	1	2	N	N	I loved 50% of this book.	I was very caught up in the story of the Belgard family during the First World War, and would have liked the book to continue on about them, through the inflation, the Hitler years and World War II. I was not at all  interested in Sarah and her presenet day family. If the author wanted to  introduce the contemporary issue of returning property in the former East  Germany to its original owners, she could have put them in the first and  last chapters instead of making them half the book. There seems no other  point to their existence. Unless you get into the Weimar Republic and the  Third Reich, there also seems no point in making the characters a Jewish  family or emphasizing this. They seem to be Jewish in name only; no  religious holidays are ever celebrated, no one goes to the synagogue, the  parents were married at the Society of Friends. There are one or two  prejudicial remarks made by others, but this book almost trivializes the  problems of anti-Semitism in Germany, even before Hitler came to power. So  much time is wasted talking about Sarah and her baby and her friends and  relatives that serve no purpose that important questions about the other  family go unanswered. Why did the governess try to turn the daughters  against the mother? Didn't any of these girls ever try to think for  themselves? What made the father sink into such a depression without anyone  appearing to notice? I think the author couldnt decide which story she  wanted to tell and wound up with half of a good story and a lot of  meaningless chapters sandwiched in between.	1999-06-05
US	52977633	RRYVL5TRCHY6K	068484267X	698161422	Angela's Ashes: A Memoir	Books	4	0	0	N	Y	a need for amnesia	everyone in the world is reviewing this book, but i'll get my two cents in as well. the author deserves the pulitzer prize just for coming through this. what i dont know is how he could re-enact it by writing down every  last detail. i would have been off to the nearest hypnotist to induce total  amnesia, and i'm not joking. there is certainly no question here about  authenticity or writing what you know about. the detail is so graphic it  made me sick more than once (why 4 stars). this is not a criticism; good  writing makes you care about what is happening. it was particularly  interesting to me as i had just finished a book on nonphysical abuse in  families; while this father did not beat up his wife or children, and  professed to be loving and caring, he most certainly abused them by keeping  control of the money, which he spent on drinking, allowing the family to  literally starve and go without the most basic necessities. i wonder if  this woman and her children thought of the father as abusive. in those days  probably not. the other thing worth mentioning is that it seemed strange to  me that people still find the U.S. such a paradise. although these people  were living in the most terrible poverty, that no one anywhere should have  to live in, there seemed to be no gangs, drugs, guns, or violent crime. in  the U.S. these things are not even limited to poor neighborhoods any  longer, and even in the 1930s, the author mentions crime and gangsters and  gun violence in America. i think this is an important book and you dont  have to be Irish, Catholic, or poor to relate to it. Although it wasn't  pretty, I'll be interested in the sequel.	1999-05-31
US	52977633	R33NBP13LUA3I8	0312861540	116661784	Lizzie Borden	Books	5	21	21	N	Y	intruiging and original explanation	Before reading this book, I had just read Arnold Brown's factual account. Ms. Engstrom did her research down to the details and those that differed I assume she changed for the sake of the story. I always find it intruiging  to imagine what may have gone on in the minds of actual people, to delve  deeper into a true story in my own imagination. Since we know so little  about the Bordens other than what came out at the murder trial, I found  this novelization interesting and entirely in keeping with the picture the  actual testimony presented of the various people, while at the same time  rounding them out and making them human. Andrew Borden has been called a  &quot;despicable miser&quot;, but this author shows him as a man with  feelings, good and bad. Emma, Lizzie's sister, is made into a dynamic  character rather than a nonentity. And  while there is no indication Lizzie  ever had a friend such as Beatrice, the book points out the dangers of  dabbling in the unknown (here, definitely the occult) without knowing what  one is doing, as a person can lose control over what is happening. I dont  want to give away anything, but Lizzie's experience's are not brought on or  controlled by her, but arise spontaneously. As anyone who has had it happen  will know, this can be pretty scary. I thnk Ms. Engstrom must have at one  time or another to describe the feelings so accurately and I recommend this  book for anyone interested in the case, just to get another slant on  things.	1999-05-10
US	52977633	R1TAMV6EXE99KX	0446520713	389506192	The Fortune Catcher	Books	4	2	3	N	Y	great story, style disconcerting	I've enjoyed the story as much as everyone else, and the book is hard to put down, but the author's style bothers me somewhat. I like books where multiple characters tell the story from their own points of view, but this  author has several characters telling it in the first person, present  tense, then switches in some chapters to the third person, then goes to  flashbacks, all in no particular order. To enable the reader to follow what  is going on, when using mulitple characters to tell a story I think the  first or third person should be used consistently and there should be some  kind of time line. This is particularly true for readers who may not be  familiar with a country's history. Otherwise I liked this book a lot!	1999-04-14
US	52977633	R3CDEGC2TLO47V	0872862763	895651831	Married to a Stranger	Books	5	20	23	N	Y	well-told story in simplistic style	So far this is my favorite of Nahid Rachlin's books. The story is told in simple sentences, corresponding with the youth and naivete of the main character, Minou, who marries an older man of her own choosing after  graduating from high school. She has no idea what she has gotten herself  into, and while her parents claim an arranged marriage would have been  better, this is questionable since the book takes place in the late 1970s,  before, during, and after the overthrow of the Shah and the fundamentalist  revolution. The book opens with a young girl's happiness about her upcoming  wedding and the tension gradually builds up to the end. Rachlin's books  give Americans an inside picture of Iranian culture and society,  particularly concerning the position of women. I hope she will continue  writing.	1999-04-11
US	52977633	R3DIAKC3F9KZZZ	0316825336	152903978	Evening News: A Novel	Books	5	0	0	N	Y	dare you to put it down	This is a sensitive and believable treatment of something that can easily happen all too often in this country today when parents keep loaded guns in the house--for any reason--and children manage to get access to them. The  author has portrayed the characters of both sexes realistically and the  book is likely to make a reader think about all of the issues surrounding  gun control, crime, protection from criminals, etc. She also shows the  destruction and resurrection of characters through their various reactions  to tragedy. I found it endlessly interesting and left with a hopeful  ending.	1999-03-18
US	52977633	R1TBDE3OIZO813	0553564668	406299863	What Falls Away: A Memoir	Books	5	2	5	N	Y	mia yes, woody no	what i got out of this book (and the included court decision, which lent great credibility to ms. farrow's narrative, is that mr. allen is a very sick man who has no business being around young children. it certainly made  a mockery of that scene of his in Manhattan with michael murphy and the  skeleton where he talks about his personal integrity, modeling himself  after God, and being well thought of by future generations. ms. farrow  deserves a lot of credit for believing the children and standing by them.  (a little girl who locks herself in the bathroom or screams for the rest of  the family to hide her when she sees her father coming is not fantasizing).	1999-02-27
US	52977633	RSZO1XD27MY0S	0679454845	402745839	China, Hong Kong, Taiwan, Inc.: The Dynamics of a New Empire	Books	5	4	5	N	N	excellent, objective, well-informed	I bought this book around the time of the HongKong handover and just read it now. I found the author very knowledgeable about Chinese history and culture, his political and economic arguments well-reasoned. The  information in the book was also very helpful in some Asian international  tax and business work my group is doing. I thought it was also good that  the author lives in Beijing, giving him personal knowledge, and is neither  American, British, Chinese, Hong Kong Chinese or Taiwanese, thereby  avoiding any slant towards or prejudices against the major players in this  saga. Overall, I learned a lot and I'd like to see him follow up in a year  or two on subsequent developments. This book also got me interested in the  history of Shanghai, so I ordered a few books on that subject.	1999-02-11
US	52977633	R1IAX4CLLPPXJT	0395848385	591032379	The Gate of Angels	Books	3	2	7	N	N	imaginative but not enjoyable	I've read most of this author's other books and really liked them. This one was a bit too strange for me. I have to say the ghost story took some imagination--Fitzgerald has a lot of preoccupation with the  supernatural--she must have had a few occult experiences. Anyway, I could  follow the book and saw what she was doing, but unlike others, I didn't  find it all that funny and I didn't ENJOY it like The Bookshop, or Offshore  or Innocence. To me it seemed deadly serious and I had to force myself to  finish it. it may be a lack of familiarity on my part with Cambridge and  that era, but this one is getting donated to the library.	1999-02-05
US	52977633	R2GHUH0JSE868V	0688148905	630234086	Last Year in Hong Kong: A Love Story	Books	1	4	6	N	Y	absolutely awful	this is one of the poorest-written novels I have ever read, and I read 100 a year. flatliner characters, speaking in cliches, contradictions within paragraphs that make no sense, constant asking of rhetorical questions by  the author through the characters, preachiness without any depth, and  laughable sex scenes. sweaty bodies popping apart like champagne corks? the  only saving grace that made me finish this was the descriptions of Hong  Kong itself, showing the author at least knew something about the place. he  should have written a travelogue. this is neither a political, historical  or erotic novel. i dont believe i paid money for this.	1999-01-27
US	52977633	R83P5EHW3F0L9	0330339249	908881445	Pippa Passes	Books	3	2	4	N	Y	as a fantasy, maybe; as reality never	This book, if viewed as a fairy tale with a travelogue of the best things to see and do in Venice thrown in, is entertaining to read. As a story, it is ridiculous. No one could be so beautiful and desirable to people of both  sexes, so good and innocent, so charming to the local nobility, so talented  a dancer that she immediately shoots from the back of the corps to a  principal role, so talented a singer that she becomes an overnght success  and is offered a $100,000 contract--all without doing much work to get  there. And to call this a children's story is not too accurate--young adult  maybe, but it contains a same-sex attempted assault and a dishonest affair  on the part of Nicolo. I dont know how much Godden knows about ballet and  what hard work it is, and how few people do make it, some only after many  years. This book just does not ring true and this author has written better  stories (e.g., The Peacock Spring).	1999-01-11
US	52977633	RPW7YABSJSESA	0312968051	182136567	The Set-Up	Books	5	5	6	N	Y	Paul Erdman's best to date	I love financial thrillers and have read most of Paul Erdman's fiction, but this is by far the best. Not only does he expertly take the reader through the world of derivatives investing and international banking, he  paints a picture of Switzerland from Zurich's Bahnhofstrasse to the most  remote parts of the Alps that makes you long to get on a plane and go there  (and I have been there--it's worth it). The plot moves fast, from the point  of view of every character; his knowledge of German, Swiss-German and  Italian is impeccable, and the story culminates in an around-the-world  chase that keeps you from putting the book down. I can't wait for his next  one.	1999-01-06
US	52977633	R22V874N1NK63P	0374216495	358028755	The Museum Guard	Books	5	2	2	N	Y	must-read for understanding WWII period	When I started this book I thought it might be just a character study of a group of definitely strange people in a small town. When I finished, I had gained further insight into how various people reacted to the European side  of the war and the Holocaust, and was reminded of people who risked their  lives escaping from Auschwitz to bring the western world evidence of what  the Nazis were really up to, only not to be believed. Nobody wanted to hear  it. The plot starts out almost dull, then suddenly builds to an  action-packed climax with an amazing ending. This is another one I'll be  recommeding to my book group. There is plenty here for discussion and a  fabulous read.	1998-12-13
US	52977633	R1QATTZ8ZVH1MZ	0395901413	441763569	Kowloon Tong: A Novel of Hong Kong	Books	4	4	6	N	N	excciting and frightening thriller	I liked this book a lot. As a thriller it was well put together, just long enough, and very scary. The most frightening (not to mention disgusting) scene was probably Mr. Hung eating his Chinese dinner. Keeping in mind that  this is fiction, it was also scary to think how far his &quot;long  arm&quot; could reach. I think the author also depicted well a certain type  (or stereotype) of British attitude towards any foreigners in the character  of Betty. The reason I give this four stars and not five is that the book  may present a lop-sided picture of the Chinese people for readers like me  who have never been to Hong Kong or China. I'd suggest the author's Riding  the Iron Rooster, which discusses his own extensive travels through China  and Tibet, before forming an opinion.	1998-12-07
US	52977633	RU8AIB3PUI9EL	0060175400	951868170	The Poisonwood Bible	Books	5	0	0	N	Y	&quot;defintely a five&quot;	This book is so fascinating I can't put it down. It's been well researched as one can see from the bibliography at the end, and I feel I'm learning so much about one African country's tragic history, something they never told  us about in school. I like one reader's comparison to the Mosquito Coast;  the family power structure is very similar, as well as the white Americans'  naivete and total unpreparedness for what they find.I'm almost at the end  and find I dont want to let it go either. The characters (except for the  father) have done so much growing throughout, and the plot never lacks for  action. On a scale of 1-5, I'd give this a 6.	1998-11-27
US	52977633	RHWU37S5D7Z82	0671014994	930252669	Always Outnumbered, Always Outgunned	Books	5	0	0	N	Y	another five stars	I can see there are plenty of raves for this book already, I'd just like to say Mr. Mosley has topped himself again and I really enjoyed following this new set of characters. Can't wait to get into his next one.	1998-11-15
US	52977633	R2T8BCNYHND21K	0940793253	924907207	Wild Thorns  (English and Arabic Edition)	Books	5	8	10	N	Y	Not just two sides, but endless dimensions	I am very grateful to a friend in your Customer Service Department for  recommending this book to me. It is an authentic account of life in the  occupied West Bank and Gaza Strip, ringing true as only someone who had  been there can make it. This siutation, between Palestinians and Israelis  remains a powder keg today, and doubtless much of the Western world is  uninformed about it, except for what the newspapers tell them. The book  illustrates most vividly how hate, war, violence, and ignorance are  destroying everyone, regardless of the side they take. There are not just  two sides here; the author presents the situation in all its complexities  and really makes the reader think. Most people in the book are just trying  to survive and are not being allowed to. This has happened again and again  throughout history, but the novel is a highly vivid and relevant  description of how continuing intolerance will result in destruction for  everyone. It is particularly relevant for U.S. readers, due to recent  terrorist acts in this country (such as the World Trade Center Bombing).  One of the main characters is a Palestinian terrorist. No one can afford  not to try to understand where he is coming from. The author has done an  outstanding job and the book should be more publicized.	1998-08-30
US	52977633	RNKNOMRX1U3ID	1555877753	813447292	Voices of Change: Short Stories by Saudi Arabian Women Writers	Books	5	25	26	N	Y	respect for authors and characters	This collection of short stories from a society so vastly different from  that of our own left me feeling a tremendous respect for the authors,  producing literary works of art in a country where women's freedom is  limited, as well as the characters they created. I want to point out that  this is NOT a &quot;male-bashing&quot; book. Although the authors are all  women, the editors and translators are 2 men and 2 women, and characters of  both genders are portrayed as a mixture of good and bad, i.e. human. The  characters are to an extent a reflection of their society, but they are  dealing with problems (alcohol, drugs, divorce, child abuse, etc.) that are  not unique to any society. The stories show great sensitivity and  compassion and in addition reveal more about life in a country that many  Americans know little about.	1998-08-23
US	52977633	RC6DFKQO7FSSM	0385477872	554674494	A Good Family	Books	2	1	2	N	N	not enough depth to be interesting	I found this book tedious--the angst suffered by wealthy WASP New England  families over problems that many ordinary people have to face (alcoholism,  anorexia, depression, etc.) has been covered over and over in far better  written books. To me the characters were shallow and underdeveloped by the  author--we never know exactly why various family members ended up the way  they did, almost nothing is known of the parents whom the author seems to  indirectly blame for the children's troubles, and it is hard to identify  with the son in his last year at Princeton with a hundred thousand dollar  trust fund, deciding his life is ruined because his father tells him he  doesn't have what it takes to become a pianist. If he were at all serious,  he'd have set out to prove his father wrong. As a woman in the 1970s, I was  told this by everyone (including parents) when it came to becoming a CPA,  then a lawyer, then moving to New York, etc. I just can't sympathize, to  this day, with rich WASP males who are born into the ruling class. Even if  the author does, however, his characters come out flat and two dimensional,  and at the end one wonders what the point was.	1998-08-14
