US	52987668	R1PIYGGWQQTX8N	043935806X	667539744	Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix (Book 5)	Books	4	0	0	N	Y	A MUST READ for All Harry Potter Fans!	Was any book so eagerly awaited as this one? I admit to a slight bit of disappointment--HARRY POTTER AND THE ORDER OF THE PHOENIX isn't quite as good as I thought it would be. But why is that?<br />Perhaps because it is the darkest book in the series (to date). Lord Voldemort is on the rise again, and his threat hangs over all the characters. But for all the hooplah, you'd expect the Dark Lord to do all sorts of nasty things, wouldn't you? Well, he does a few horrible things, but not too many. In fact, I felt Voldemort was a bit on the quiet side, which probably means he'll be in fine fettle and killing the good guyes right and left in Book 6.<br />Then, perhaps it's because Harry is just now growing up a bit. He's 15 years old, and he's just had a major growth spurt. His hormones are in flux, and poor Harry is prone to outbursts of anger when he is tried too far.<br />Perhaps it's because Professor Dumbledore is visibly missing-in-action during most of the book. We get a glimpse of him here and there, but gone are the intimate exchanges between himself and Harry.<br />On the other hand, it just may be because Harry doesn't have quite as much to do in this book as he did in previous ones. After you've been in a Tri-Wizard Tournament fighting off dragons, hexes, and the like, I'm sure life does tend to get a bit boring. &lt;grin><br />However, all in all, it is a welcome sequel to GOBLET OF FIRE. Students just finishing their exams can sympathize with Harry, Hermione and Ron as they struggle with their huge courseload and upcoming O.W.L exams. The new Defence Against the Dark Arts teacher is one we all can (hem, hem) hate vehemently. Fred and George Weasley are in fine form and are putting Harry's Tournament winnings to good use in getting their joke shop started. Best of all, in my opinion, was \\"Dumbledore's Army\\" (I won't say more and spoil the effect).<br />If you're a Harry Potter fan, be sure to read this one. And listen to the audio version, too. It always adds another dimension to the story.nother dimension to the story.	2003-06-23
US	52987668	RPLY7H31JFQJ1	0743458117	859537711	Alpine for You: A Passport to Peril Mystery (Passport to Peril Mysteries)	Books	5	46	47	N	N	Funniest Book of the Year	If you like Janet Evanovich's books, you'll like this new series by Maddy Hunter. The laughs never stop coming, and yes, there's a mystery to solve. One by one, the elderly tourists on a group tour of Switzerland are dying under mysterious circumstances. Emily Andrew, who's accompanying her grandmother on the trip, helps a sexy police inspector in his investigations. I laughed hysterically all the way through the book, and I'm very much looking forward to the next book in this series. This will be one of my  \\"Best Books of 2003\\". Highly recommended.	2003-02-06
US	52987668	R1ORJXRMNL6XF5	0525944885	251893357	The Songcatcher: A Novel	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Engrossing!	I found THE SONGCATCHER, Sharyn McCrumb's latest ballad novel, so very engrossing I read it all in one sitting. As with most of McCrumb's ballad novels, it's not a mystery. Instead, it's a study of human relationships.<br />The usual ballad characters (Nora Bonesteel, Sheriff Arrowood, Martha Ayers and Joe LaDonne) are back, although they remain in the background for most of the book. In fact, there isn't one main character. Instead we follow a song through each generation of the McCourry family, starting in 1751 when young Malcolm McCourry is kidnapped from his home in Scotland and is pressed into service on a ship. We follow Malcolm to America, where he settles and spawns a dynasty in the Tennessee/North Carolina area. With him he brings his family curse (the firstborn child will never be best loved; another will always supplant him) and the family's special song. We then follow each succeeding generation as they suffer under this curse but still pass on Malcolm's song. It is in the present-day generation that we meet Lark McCourry, a country singer who has only a vague memory of her family song. Long estranged from her father, Lark returns home to attend his deathbed and seek out this elusive song for her next album.<br />While well worth reading, THE SONGCATCHER isn't Ms. McCrumb's best work. I think the book suffers from the lack of a major protagonist, which is why I gave it only 4 stars. However, it is still a wonderful study of human relationships, and I expect most readers will be caught up in the book's magical spell.	2001-06-07
US	52987668	R1PJTQPD6B7CK9	0525944885	251893357	The Songcatcher: A Novel	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Engrossing!	I found THE SONGCATCHER, Sharyn McCrumb's latest ballad novel, so very engrossing I read it all in one sitting. As with most of McCrumb's ballad novels, it's not a mystery. Instead, it's a study of human relationships.<br />The usual ballad characters (Nora Bonesteel, Sheriff Arrowood, Martha Ayers and Joe LaDonne) are back, although they remain in the background for most of the book. In fact, there isn't one main character. Instead we follow a song through each generation of the McCourry family, starting in 1751 when young Malcolm McCourry is kidnapped from his home in Scotland and is pressed into service on a ship. We follow Malcolm to America, where he settles and spawns a dynasty in the Tennessee/North Carolina area. With him he brings his family curse (the firstborn child will never be best loved; another will always supplant him) and the family's special song. We then follow each succeeding generation as they suffer under this curse but still pass on Malcolm's song. It is in the present-day generation that we meet Lark McCourry, a country singer who has only a vague memory of her family song. Long estranged from her father, Lark returns home to attend his deathbed and seek out this elusive song for her next album.<br />While well worth reading, THE SONGCATCHER isn't Ms. McCrumb's best work. I think the book suffers from the lack of a major protagonist, which is why I gave it only 4 stars. However, it is still a wonderful study of human relationships, and I expect most readers will be caught up in the book's magical spell.	2001-06-07
US	52987668	RROIXGXUESJMZ	0312209576	334146828	The Singing of the Dead (Kate Shugak Novels)	Books	4	13	14	N	N	Terrific addition to the Kate Shugak series	Terrific! That nicely sums up this latest entry in Dana Stabenow's Kate Shugak series. Stabenow, who was born and lives in Anchorage, provides her readers with an up-close and in-depth look at Alaskan life. And boy, is that life rugged and cold! Stabenow doesn't pull any punches as she describes everyday life in Alaska. People drink way too much. Marriages break up right and left. Just living day to day is difficult.<br />Kate Shugak fiercely loves her native Alaska. She lives simply, without many of the conveniences we consider necessary. It's a lonely life, but one that Kate wouldn't change for the world. The only thing she would change is to bring back her recently deceased lover, Jack. But life goes on, and Kate slowly recovers from her grief. Helping her is Jack's teen-aged son, Johnny, who loves Alaska as much as Kate does. Unfortunately, he has run away from his mother, which causes Kate legal and emotional problems with Johnny's mother.<br />As legal problems cost lots of money, Kate reluctantly accepts a job as security guard for state senator candidate Anne Gordaoff, who has been receiving threatening letters. Life on the campaign trail is hard, but not as hard as Kate's regular life (in my opinion). When first Anne's fundraiser/future son-in-law is murdered, followed shortly by the murder of another staff member, Kate digs into the past to identify the culprit. <br />In fact, it is the past that provided the most interesting parts of the book. The parallel story of the Dawson Darling, a good-time girl of the Alaskan Gold Rush period, is riveting reading.  <br />Stabenow does an excellent job with her plot twists. There's lots of substance to THE SINGING OF THE DEAD, which makes it a satisfying read. Stabenow provides her reader with the necessary clues to identify the murderer along with Kate, although I must admit I didn't figure out &quot;whodunit&quot;. <br />All in all, I think this is one of the best in the Kake Shugak series. If you haven't read any, I recommend you start with the first book and work your way up to this one, as each book builds on the previous ones.	2001-05-30
US	52987668	R3LL0JBHWKRK49	1575665247	95177255	Chocolate Chip Cookie Murder (Hannah Swensen Mysteries)	Books	4	2	4	N	N	A delightful amateur sleuth makes her debut	Hannah Swensen makes her debut in this culinary series. Hannah, a thirtyish spinster, is under constant pressure from her mother to get married. It's obvious that Hannah is a candidate for sainthood, as she is more than patient with her mother's constant telephone calls and criticisms. What's more, she's a great baker, and she nicely provides us with terrific (the best I've ever seen!) instructions on how to bake all those high-calorie cookies mentioned throughout THE CHOCOLATE CHIP COOKIE MURDER. There's even an index at the back of the book so you can easily locate the recipe you want. What a woman! And she has a great cat. The scenes showing Hannah's relationship with her cat Moishe are heartwarming.<br />Oh, the mystery. Yes, there's a mystery, and it's even logical that Hannah would be involved in snooping around town (she wants to help her policeman brother-in-law solve the case and earn a promotion). Unfortunately, I felt Hannah was a bit slow to figure some things out, as certain things were clear to me quite early in the book. However, for the most part Hannah was a clever amateur detective, and I remained glued to the story until the last page. I very much look forward to the next book in this series, and I think most cozy lovers will find this series delightful.	2001-02-25
US	52987668	R3PR1MACUWAEYN	0312262248	436827953	The Return of the Spanish Lady	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Warning! Don't read the cover blurb!	Nick Scott is back for another round of her favorite airplane archeology (bet you didn't know such a thing existed!) in THE RETURN OF THE SPANISH LADY. Author Val Davis sets up a nicely suspenseful scenario, but the cover blurb gives away everything, so I never had a chance to figure things out with Nick. Don't read the cover blurb!!!<br />I might have rated the book higher, if the cover hadn't taken away all the suspense. The 1918 characters were well done, and I liked those parts best. And if you haven't read TRACK OF THE SCORPION, the first Nick Scott book, you should do so, as this is a very nicely written and unusual series.	2001-02-25
US	52987668	R2TW2KY2DXNLVC	0399147020	447087218	Blood Lure	Books	4	9	10	N	N	A delightful and educational look at Glacier National Park	Anna Pigeon returns in BLOOD LURE, as she take time away from her regular park duties to assist with bear DNA studies at Glacier National Park.  Right at the beginning, we, along with Anna, learn the best (or worst, depending on your point of view) recipes to lure bears. (I must admit this isn't the first time Barr has presented me with more information than I care to learn about a particular subject.) Also, the description of the bear attack on Anna's research group is chilling and enough to make me forget any ideas I'd ever had about going camping!<br />Barr unravels her clues carefully and fairly; the reader has ample opportunity to put everything together (along with Anna) to solve the mystery. Yet the clues weren't blatantly obvious. Barr did a terrific job with her plotting on this book, and she deserves a pat on the back. BLOOD LURE is well worth reading. Thumbs up!	2001-02-22
US	52987668	R11U7VGX9N44HC	0380804743	542948797	Miss Zukas Shelves the Evidence (Miss Zukas Mysteries)	Books	3	13	15	N	N	Helma FINALLY gets a life!	In the latest in this cozy series, our Miss Zukas finally gets a life. Not only does she call her Police Chief boyfriend by his first name in this book, Helma also puts him ahead of her job.<br />It all begins when Helma's new neighbor, TNT, asks her to comfort his stepdaughter, whose older husband has just been found dead in his rosebushes. This gets Helma involved in investigating the man's death, which naturally turns out to be murder. Meanwhile Police Chief Wayne Gallant brings his two teenagers to meet Helma for the first time. Before the evening is over, Wayne is called away on police business and is injured. Helma, ably assisted by her mother and Aunt Em, as well as sidekick Ruth, assumes responsibility for the teenagers while their father is in the hospital. It's amusing to see how well everyone but Helma gets along with Wayne's kids. <br />A couple minor points--I never did figure out how the book's cover figured in with the story. I either missed something, or the cover is way off base. Ditto with the title. Helma didn't shelve anything in this book, so why is the book entitled MISS ZUKAS SHELVES THE EVIDENCE? Miss Zukas deletes the evidence would have been more appropriate.<br />While I enjoyed seeing a different side to Helma Zukas, and the mystery was convoluted enough to be satisfying, there was something missing that caused me to give the book only a 3-star rating. Perhaps the next book in this series will have more zing.	2001-02-20
US	52987668	R164K7UNEDMD9K	0425178560	437983418	A Bicycle Built For Murder	Books	3	6	8	N	N	Charming cozy period piece, but the mystery is fluffy	In this first book of Kate Kingsbury's new Manor House series set in World War II England, delightful characters abound.  The lead character, Lady Elizabeth Hartleigh Compton, is the last member of her impoverished but noble family, living on the rents she receives from her tenants. Lady Elizabeth takes her duties seriously, and tries to keep the villagers of Sitting Marsh on an even keel, in spite of rationing, possible invasions, and Yanks. When a local girl is found murdered, Lady Elizabeth takes a hand in investigating the incident, as the local constabulary is less than adequate due to war-time enlistments of the regular officers.<br />Kingsbury's attention to detail is delightfully accurate, from Lady's Elizabeth's courtesy title to that often repeated refrain &quot;Yanks--overpaid, oversexed, and over here!&quot; Lady Elizabeth is an interesting character, as are her household staff members. Unfortunately, the mystery is decidedly fluffy. Kingsbury's clues are overwhelmingly obvious, causing the reader to wonder how Lady Elizabeth could miss them. The murderer's identity was obvious from the beginning of the book, which is why I gave the book only a 3-star rating.<br />I do look forward to the next book in this series, when the American officers take up quarters in Lady Elizabeth's family home. I just hope the clues are less blatantly obvious in that one.	2001-02-19
US	52987668	R2WTYCHANVDZG9	0312241747	884920185	An Angel to Die For (Augusta Goodnight Mysteries)	Books	4	6	6	N	N	A delightful cozy!	Cozy fans, if you haven't read these &quot;angel&quot; books by Mignon F. Ballard, don't wait any longer! Temporary guardian angel Augusta Goodnight returns in this second book in the series, though this time we see a gentler and kinder Augusta than the one we saw first in ANGEL AT TROUBLESOME CREEK. Augusta's assignment this time is to watch over recently bereaved Prentice Dobson until she is assigned a new guardian angel (Prentice's previous guardian angel was just promoted to the heavenly choir). From the moment Prentice discovers her Uncle Faris' vandalized grave, things start going downhill. Prentice is sure she's being watched, but why? <br />There are lots of delightful moments in AN ANGEL TO DIE FOR. I wish I had a guardian angel who cleaned house silently during the night and cooked like a dream! What's more, the mystery remained a mystery to me until the end of the book--a definite plus for me! Be sure to read this series.	2001-02-19
US	52987668	R2EVGU81OHNW0V	051512902X	14576775	After Dark (Ghost Hunters, Book 1)	Books	3	0	1	N	N	Not a lot of romance, but a very nice mystery	AFTER DARK is Jayne Castle's 4th futuristic novel. I liked all 3 previous  books, so I anxiously awaited this one. Lydia Allen, a para-archeologist  suffering from a close encounter with a ghost, has lost her university job  and her reputation in one swoop. She is trying to establish herself as a  highly paid para-archeologist consultant, but she has to pay the bills so  she is working at a third-rate museum until she makes it big. But clients  are hard to come by, especially when &quot;friends&quot; like Chester steal  the best ones away. So when Emmett London, a hotshot businessman who likes  his privacy, wants to hire Lydia, she's thrilled but wary. Emmett wants  Lydia to find a stolen family heirloom, and her inquiries into the matter  unleash all sorts of problems for Lydia. Emmett's really looking for his  18-year-old nephew who pawned the heirloom and subsequently disappeared.  Together, Lydia and Emmett make an unbeatable team as they handle the bad  guys with aplomb.<br />Now, I really did like Castle's previous futuristic  books (ORCHID, AMARILLYS, and ZINNIA), and I was prepared to like AFTER  DARK as well. Unfortunately, there's not much romance in the book. It  seemed to me that Castle concentrated on the mystery aspect to the  detriment of the romance. And yes, the mystery was pretty good, especially  for a book classified as romance. But if a book is going to be classified  as a romance, it should have at least *some* romance in it (as opposed to  sex scenes). While she did admire Emmett's physique early in the book,  Lydia never seems to fall in love with Emmett. And isn't that--falling in  love--what qualifies as romance?<br />All in all, I think AFTER DARK could  have been a really great book, but it suffers from the rush-to-print  syndrome. It reads awkwardly in places, and the book would have been better  if the author had spent a bit more time polishing and developing the  romance between Lydia and Emmett. However, the mystery is a nice one, andif you like futuristic novels, you should enjoy AFTER DARK.	2000-09-11
US	52987668	R2IHD9519G3J6Q	0451200217	892760110	Wolf at the Door (Annie O'Hara & Claudius Mysteries)	Books	4	11	11	N	N	Great debut!	WOLF AT THE DOOR marks the debut of Annie O'Hara and her partwolf, part canine companion, Claudius. Annie is always coming to someone's aid. First she adopts (temporarily) Claudius, who belongs to Annie's soon-to-be-ex sister-in-law, who abandoned both her husband and her dog without a backward look. Then Annie agrees to drive to Roswell, New Mexico, during her vacation so she can nurse her aunt after she undergoes surgery. Annie does all this cheerfully enough, although she does have some qualms about providing a home for Claudius who has proven to be headstrong, demanding and aloof.<br />Once in Roswell, Annie is overwhelmed by the UFO mania. In fact, her aunt and uncle belong to a UFO cult/church, along with most of their neighbors. While walking Claudius, Annie stumbles upon the murdered body of their pastor, and his death is soon followed by that of a sex-crazed neighbor who tried to blackmail the killer. As the local police zero in on Annie's uncle as the prime suspect, Annie investigates the case, along with a local reporter she's considering dating. <br />I wasn't able to correctly guess the identity of the killer, but I felt the author kept the one vital clue to the killer unfairly hidden, as it was a visual clue never described in words. The reader never has all she needs to know to solve the case; hopefully in future books the author will play fairly. After all, the mark of a good/great mystery author is to provide all the necessary info while distracting the reader from the vital clue.<br />All in all, I very much liked WOLF AT THE DOOR, as there were lots of fun, quirky characters who really came to life under the author's pen. Annie's relationship with Claudius (a true alpha dog) is a delight! This is a great summer read, and I look forward to future books in this series.	2000-08-27
US	52987668	R1S4UJIRQOEJY3	0812571576	5795828	Death in Paradise: A Thea Kozak Mystery	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Terrific!	Thea Kozak returns, this time attending an education convention on the  Hawaiian island of Maui. Thea hadn't planned on attending, but when her  partner comes down with pneumonia, Thea has to take her place. But instead  of spending part of her time in convention activities and the rest of her  time on the beach relaxing and working on her tan, Thea finds herself in  the &quot;Ms. Fixit&quot; role as problem after problem arises at the  convention. When the universally disliked convention organizer is  strangled, Thea finds herself investigating the case in spite of her desire  not to become involved. She is aided by a charming 11-year-old girl who  sees herself as a secret agent and spies on hotel guests constantly.<br />Poor Thea is much abused in DEATH IN PARADISE. Every time she turns  around, she is attacked verbally and/or physically. On top of that, she is  feeling ill from the very first chapter, to the point she knows she must  see a doctor when she returns to Boston. What amazed me is how Thea  remained oblivious to the nature of her illness throughout the book. While  admitting the symptoms (extreme tiredness, nausea and excessive thirst),  she didn't put 2 and 2 together to come up with the correct diagnosis. I  spent the entire book waiting for her to figure things out!<br />As far as the  mystery goes, I was clueless as to the killer's identity. Suspects  abounded, and the author kept the suspence level high throughout the book.  You won't want to miss this series, which combines a strong, likeable  heroine with great secondary characters and realistic situations.	2000-08-27
US	52987668	R4C726REG6OJJ	044900421X	591062395	Bad Luck (Victoria Lucci Novels)	Books	3	5	5	N	N	Awkwardly written medical/legal thriller	Vicky Lucci is a lawyer working for a large metro hospital. It's her job  to investigate problems and provide the hospital administration with the  facts of each case. Vicky quickly has her hands full when her immediate  superior, Jette, disappears, and the wife of one of the hospital's top  doctors lapses into a coma after routine cosmetic surgery. When Jette is  found dead, Vicky searches for the murderer. <br />While I was clueless as to  the identity of the murderer, when Vicky placed herself in a really stupid  situation, it was obvious she was in trouble with the murderer.<br />Right  from the start something bothered me about BAD LUCK, but it wasn't until I  compared a page to that of a book I recently read and liked very much that  I figured out what exactly bothered me. The book is written in the present  tense (i.e., &quot;I shrug out of my coat&quot;), perhaps in an attempt to  keep things moving or to create a sense of excitement. Unfortunately, it  distracts more than it helps, as it reads awkwardly. I think I would have  liked the book much better (and rated it higher) if it had been written in  the past tense instead.<br />There were some funny scenes in the book (the  patient &quot;attacking&quot; other patients, and the way Vicky acquired a  new pet). Fans of medical and legal thrillers may want to check this one  out, as it combines aspects of both types of books.	2000-08-13
US	52987668	RKV3HNS421X5B	0373263570	510218545	Murder Flies Left Seat (Grace Beckmann)	Books	3	1	1	N	N	A mixed bag	Since she hates flying in small aircraft, when Grace Beckmann and her husband Albert arrive at the airfield to take a quick jaunt in his beloved  Piper Turbo Arrow, she is ecstatic that the plane is missing from the  hanger. Jann, the wife of the airplane's co-owner took the plane without  notice. Albert and Grace's irritation soon turns to concern, as the plane  crashes killing Jann. When it turns out to be sabotage, Grace thinks she  and Albert might have been the intended victims, and so she starts  investigating the case.<br />I should have been able to identify with Grace,  as she and I are similar in many ways (same age, both married with  children). However, I failed to connect with her (a definite minus for me),  and she didn't seem to enjoy her life at all.<br />While I was able to figure  out some of the intrigue, I didn't figure out who had sabotaged the plane  to kill Jann, so the author was successful in that area (a definite plus).  <br />If you enjoy flying small planes or flying in them, you'll probably  enjoy reading MURDER FLIES LEFT SEAT.	2000-08-12
US	52987668	R39Z17HJTJVZ4Z	0425176126	263017626	Love and the Single Corpse (Hannah and Kiki Mystery)	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Kiki has some great scenes!	Hannah Malloy and her outrageous sister Kiki return in LOVE AND THE SINGLE  CORPSE. When one of their high school teachers asks Hannah for help but is  killed before she can explain what's going on, Hannah starts investigating  the case. While the teacher, Geraldine, had appeared to live the blameless  life of a old maid schoolteacher, she, in fact, had a wild and woolly  past.<br />Kiki, of course, is far more concerned with trapping a man than in  investigating murders. She has her sights set on a newly widowed doctor who  is dating Kiki's high school rival. The funniest scenes, such as Kiki's  mummy wrap at the local spa, center around Kiki. Hannah is no fun at all,  and I didn't like her as well in this book as I had in the previous  ones.<br />I found the identity of Geraldine's murderer totally predictable.  However, the killer of the hit man (a secondary murder that failed to  interest me much) was not so obvious, and I was taken by surprise by that  one. All in all, I do recommend this book, just because of Kiki. She has  some great scenes in this book that make it well worth the purchase price.	2000-08-12
US	52987668	RXOYKTB2RYEYS	0449006395	360350805	Dying to Remember (Jennifer Marsh Mystery)	Books	1	3	4	N	N	Contrived plot	Jennifer Marsh, a pre-published mystery author wannabe, returns for her fourth appearance in DYING TO REMEMBER. Jennifer and her friend Teri have  been invited to their high school reunion. Jennifer has no desire to  attend, although it's been 12 years since graduation. Teri cajoles her, but  it's when Jennifer receives a letter from a former boyfriend asking her to  attend that she finally decides to go. <br />As she remembers her senior year,  all Jennifer's unresolved issues come back to haunt her. A student  disappeared the night of her senior prom, her date left her stranded at the  dance, and his former girlfriend (now wife), Sheena, had made Jennifer's  life hell for months. Once at the reunion, Jennifer runs into her prom date  briefly, and shortly thereafter he's found dead in his car. Sheena knows he  was murdered, and she demands that Jennifer investigate the case.<br />I found  the plot contrived and the murderer obvious from the start of the book. I  failed to connect with Jennifer, but that may be due to the story being  written in the third person (I much prefer mysteries written in first  person). Sam and Jennifer's relationship is placed on the back burner in  this episode, so even that plot line failed to interest me. Pass on this  book.	2000-08-05
US	52987668	R1T3E4UZ9C2YXB	0380975017	158033193	Devil's Claw (Joanna Brady Mysteries, Book 8)	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Another great Joanna Brady book	Joanna Brady returns in DEVIL'S CLAW, and as usual, things are really hopping in Cochise County, Arizona. Joanna and Butch are getting married in a week, and the mother of the bride is finally able to plan the wedding of  her dreams for her daughter. Normally all the hoopla would drive Joanna  crazy, but she's turned all the wedding details over to Butch so she can  concentrate on clearing her desk so they have have a real honeymoon  (destination: Top Secret). When a teenager disappears and a woman is found  near death, Joanna has even more work than she anticipated.<br />When the  investigation into the woman's death reveals that she's the missing  teenager's ex-convict mom, Joanna finds herself becoming more and more  involved in the case. Compounding her stress, Joanna meets Butch's parents  for the first time and has to deal with assorted pre-wedding parties. I  especially enjoyed the side plot involving Joanna's secretary,  Kristin.<br />As in all the Joanna Brady stories, Judy Jance provides the  reader with a real-life look at southern Arizona. Since she grew up in the  Bisbee area, Judy really knows the area well. I look forward to the next  book in this exciting series.	2000-07-31
US	52987668	R11I0JN6JJQS56	0061043893	829904168	Killing Kin	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Great characterization!	Out on disability with an injured knee, former police officer Leigh Ann Warren is at a cross point in her life. She reluctantly gave up the job she loved, as she can't pass the physical to return to active duty, and her  knee seizes up if she sits at a desk too long. Prior to her injury, she had  broken up with her police officer fiance, Duck, and so both her  professional and personal lives are in turmoil. <br />Returning home after a  short vacation, Leigh discovers a dead man in her kitchen. Leigh hadn't  known the deceased in life, but it soon becomes apparent that Duck did.  What's more, everyone from the police to drug dealers are looking for Duck,  who has disappeared without a trace. Leigh sets out to find her man and  finds danger along the way.<br />Chassie West has created some terrific  characters in KILLING KIN. Tank and Tina are especially funny yet  realistic. There's lots of suspense, too, which kept me glued to the book.  I hope that Leigh and Duck will return in future adventures.	2000-07-29
US	52987668	R1UVT9BYFP50SI	0802711197	127307691	The Stolen Bride (A Regency Romance)	Books	2	18	20	N	N	Who is the protagonist here?	So many secondary characters abound in THE STOLEN BRIDE, the reader almost needs a score card to keep track. A sequel to THE STANFORD SECRETS, many of those characters return in this continuing regency saga. Warning: if you  haven't read THE STANFORD SECRETS, you should do so before reading THE  STOLEN BRIDE, as the author has many spoilers spread throughout the  book.<br />There's a reason why this book is so hard to find. It really isn't  up to the author's usual standards, and I'm sure she would want to rewrite  it before reprinting it again. While there was a plot of sorts, there  wasn't much romance between the title character and her fiance. In fact,  the book's biggest weakness is that we never really connect with Lady  Sophie. We are given much more insight into one of the secondary  characters, Beth Hawley, who is portrayed much better. THE STOLEN BRIDE  isn't one of the author's best works, but then, it is one of her earliest  efforts. If you never locate a copy, be satisfied with one of her more  recent books, which are much better.	2000-07-25
US	52987668	R3B9W3E2OB6OZZ	0440224454	806233294	The Pink Flamingo Murders	Books	3	10	11	N	N	Interesting characters	Columnist reporter Francesca Vierling makes her third appearance in THE PINK FLAMINGO MURDERS. Most readers can sympathize with Francesca, who is chronically unable to control her temper and tongue. Consequently, she  finds herself in hot water both at work and in her personal life. <br />Always  looking for a good story, Francesca starts covering her own neighborhood  when less than desirable characters start dying after arguing with wealthy  real estate owner Caroline. As the body count starts climbing, and all are  murder victims, Francesca is positive Caroline is the killer and tries to  find enough proof for the police. When Caroline herself is killed,  Francesca is stumped--but then, so are the police.<br />Viets provides the  reader with an intimate look at St. Louis, especially the proud old houses  suffering from neglect and in need of &quot;rehabbing&quot;. She also  provides the reader with an up-close and personal view of a reporter's  daily life, but I hope this isn't how a typical newspaper is run.  Francesca's boyfriend Lyle can't understand why Francesca doesn't quit, as  she and the other reporters are treated extremely poorly and aren't allowed  to write any real news stories. I don't think Francesca herself knows why  she stays and takes the daily punishment dished out by managing editor  Charlie.<br />I was able to figure out the killer's identity early on. In  spite of that, the book held my interest all the way to the end, mostly due  to the interesting characters.	2000-07-24
US	52987668	R1PXO3UM3A92FS	0312972776	246519865	Larger Than Death (Josephine Fuller Mysteries)	Books	3	3	3	N	N	Strong role model	LARGER THAN DEATH introduces Josephine Fuller, a full-sized woman who is comfortable with her larger figure. Josephine's long-time friend, Nina, who helped Jo come to terms with her larger size, is murdered, apparently by a  serial killer determined to rid the world of heavy-set women. While Jo  deals with Nina's funeral arrangements and settles her estate, she also  collects clues to the killer's identity. It turns out that during her life  Nina was involved with a cult, its randy leader, and a weight-loss guru,  all of which interweave throughout the story.<br />Jo is a great role model  for large-size women who want to come to terms with their bodies. In a  world where people wanting to be politically correct will refrain from  ethnic slurs, it's common for these same people to make fat jokes or  obnoxious remarks when they encounter an over-weight person. When insulted  by others (who range from inconsiderate to downright phobic), Jo always has  a comeback designed to put the person in his/her place. Words are her  sword, and she wields them well. <br />I was able to figure out the killer's  identity halfway through the book, and I'm not sure why Jo wasn't able to  figure it out at the same time. While I do think Jo is a strong character  and a good role model for large-size women, I'm not sure how likeable she  is to the average reader. She didn't sparkle or laugh very much in LARGER  THAN DEATH, which would have helped the book immensely. I hope Jo has more  fun in future books or at least enjoys life a bit.	2000-07-23
US	52987668	R14S1LB1YCQPO8	0440224314	876713512	Back Stab	Books	3	2	4	N	N	Likeable heroine, but killer was obvious	Reporter columnist Francesca Vierling makes her debut in BACKSTAB by Elaine Viets. Francesca works for a second-rate St. Louis newspaper, where the emphasis is on covering the &quot;right&quot; rather than  &quot;important&quot; news. The managing editor, Hadley Harris III, and his  minion, Charlie, strive to maintain &quot;family values&quot; at the  newspaper by printing non-controversial stories only. Francesca finds this  frustrating and limiting, as many of her stories are designated  controversial by her editors.<br />When two of Francesca's friends are killed,  she suspects foul play. Unfortunately, no one agrees with her, including  the police. After someone tries to run her over, Francesca knows she's  right. Not one to let that stop her, Francesca continues to dig into their  deaths.<br />While Francesca is a likeable heroine, I was able to figure out  the killer's identity long before she did, which eliminated much of the  suspense necessary for a successful mystery. The author needs to work on  her plotting techniques in future novels; however, she does provide the  reader with a terrific insight into the world of newspapers and some of the  seedier sides of life in general. In spite of figuring out whodunit early  in the book, I was unable to put the book down. I look forward to the next  book in this series.	2000-07-22
US	52987668	ROPYES3EL5ZBO	0449004260	161488113	Dying for a Clue (Jennifer Marsh Mysteries)	Books	3	5	6	N	N	Hilarious scenes, but book needed more work	Jennifer Marsh, a pre-published mystery writer, returns in DYING FOR A CLUE. Deciding a little PI experience will help provide authenticity to her writing, Jennifer accompanies sleazy PI Johnny &quot;Z&quot; on a case at a  local fertility clinic. When things turn violent and a nurse is killed and  Z is shot, Jennifer hides in a garbage dumpster (a really hilarious scene)  and escapes harm. The hoodlums manage to ID her and break into her  apartment, and Jennifer puts her  &quot;how-to-escape-when-someone-breaks-into- my-apartment&quot; scenario  (another great scene) into effect. While her apartment is being repaired,  Jennifer moves in with her reporter boyfriend, Sam, for protection.<br />In an  attempt to figure out why the nurse was killed and Z was shot, Jennifer  investigates the clinic staff and Z's client, a college coed who wants to  locate her birth parents. Unfortunately, Jennifer isn't very bright,  because she isn't able to figure out the clues when they are handed to her  on a silver platter. The coed's real identity was obvious to me at once  from the clues given, and I kept waiting for Jennifer to catch up to  me.<br />Jennifer's supporting characters, including her writer's group, are  in fine form, and were the best part of the book. An interesting read, but  the author needs to work on her plot developments and the clues she  provides the reader.	2000-07-22
US	52987668	RNRR9Q50BMBJU	1890768189	931360755	Memories Can be Murder: The Fifth Charlie Parker Mystery	Books	3	2	4	N	N	Engrosing but predictable	I found MEMORIES CAN BE MURDER to be an engrosing but predictable story. Charlie Parker (not to be confused with Charlie Plato of CHAPS created by Meg Chittenden), 30-ish and newly engaged, is hesitant to set a wedding  date to fiance Drake as they have only known each other a short time.  However, Charlie and Drake have agreed to live together, and he is in the  process of moving from Hawaii to Charlie's home in Albuquerque. While  making room for Drake's things, Charlie discovers several boxes of her  father's papers in the attic, which cause her to relive old memories of her  parents who died in a plane crash.<br />Charlie learns she didn't comprehend  much at the time of their deaths, and she starts investigating. It soon  becomes obvious that someone has something to hide, as much of the  information regarding the plane crash has disappeared. What's more, someone  who has info to give to Charlie is killed right in front of her  eyes.<br />While engrosing, much of the plot is predictable. As soon as  Charlie took her father's boxes of papers next door to spread out in a  neighbor's empty room, I just knew that something was going to happen to  Charlie's house. I kept cringing at the end of each chapter, expecting her  house to blow up with her fiance in it. So when the expected did happen, it  was nice to find that no one was killed after all. Also predictable was the  bad guy's identity, which eliminated much of the suspense.<br />In spite of  the predictability, I very much enjoyed watching Charlie's relationship  with Drake develop. I'm looking forward to the next book in this series.	2000-07-21
US	52987668	RE260M72015L8	0312262280	532012809	Shakespeare's Trollop (Lily Bard Mysteries, Book 4)	Books	4	23	23	N	N	An engrosing story	Cleaning lady Lily Bard appears for the 4th time in SHAKESPEARE'S TROLLOP. This time the murder victim is Deedra, the local &quot;bad girl&quot; who was best known for her promiscuity. Nearly every male in town is a suspect,  but in spite of having a ton of suspects to question, the police can't  figure out the killer's identity.<br />Deedra's mother, Lacey, asks Lily to  help her dispose of Deedra's belongings, and Lily unintentionally learns  more about the victim's personal life than she wants to know. Without  actually snooping or interrogating suspects, Lily manages to find the vital  clue that exposes whodunit. I was kept guessing right to the surprise  ending.<br />Lily is a difficult character. Herself the victim of rape and  attempted murder, she has slowly worked out her anger and is just starting  to get on with a more normal life. Always an arresting personality, she has  become more likeable with each book. In SHAKESPEARE'S TROLLOP, Lily shows  her more human side, and I was pleased to see her developing relationship  with Jack. I very much look forward to the next in this thought-provoking  series.	2000-07-20
US	52987668	RF6QMICYMJUXN	038079943X	172748181	Mourning Shift: A Tory Bauer Mystery	Books	4	30	31	N	N	Entertaining and funny	I very much enjoyed reading MOURNING SHIFT by Kathleen Taylor. Once again, Tory Bauer, overweight, over 40, and over likely to discover dead bodies, is in fine form. Right away she discovers the dead body of an elderly man  in the bathroom of the cafe where she waitresses. Turns out he was the  husband of cafe cook/owner Aphrodite. Shortly after discovering the body,  Aphrodite's step-daughter and her son arrive in town, making it a regular  family reunion. Unfortunately, there's a bomber on the loose, and one of  the main characters is killed. Tory investigates and soon puts all the  clues together for a surprise ending.<br />While the author did provide  readers with all the necessary clues to figure out whodunit, I never put it  all together. (A book is successful for me if the author can provide all  the clues and still keep me guessing.) I also enjoyed the Woo-Woo Factor  (the term used by mystery buffs to describe supernatural incidences in  books). All the usual characters were back being their normal, quirky  selves, providing additional laughs. A nice, light summer read perfect to  take with you on vacation.	2000-07-20
US	52987668	R1XJMWTZ8HMRB6	0425175510	737998221	A Little Traveling Music, Please (Prime Crime)	Books	2	5	8	N	N	Entertaining but Dimwitted Heroine	ALITTLE TRAVELING MUSIC, PLEASE is the 3rd Honey Huckleberry mystery, which I didn't realize when I picked the book up. If you haven't read the first two books and intend to do so, be sure to read them before starting  this one, as the author provides many spoilers throughout.<br />The story  opens with the mailman delivering an envelope addressed to Honey's dog,  Bailey. All that's in that envelope is a brass key. The mailman also  delivered several notices of termination of service from Honey's utility  companies. It seems that Honey's accountant, who normally pays all her  bills, hasn't been doing so for months. When no one answers the phone at  his office, Honey goes there in person and encounters the huge,  threatening, former Navy SEAL, private investigator Sledge Hamra, who also  is looking for the missing accountant. He follows Honey wherever she  goes.<br />In addition to a missing accountant (and her $4 million!), Honey  has misplaced her fiance, and she had planned to go to London to search for  him. Her adventures while searching lead her into many dangerous  situations, including being abducted and physically hurt. She doesn't let a  little think like kidnappers get in her way, and Honey is soon scouring the  English countryside seeking her man.<br />While the book was funny and  interesting, I was disappointed in Honey's dimwitted antics. Given all the  signs of a hurricane, does Honey ever once tumble to that? Even turn on the  radio to listen to the weather forcast? Nope. She easily dismisses all  evidence that the shore has been evacuated until it's too late. Later,  after being kidnapped and released, does she call the police? Nope.  Instead, she tries to find the kidnappers to tell them her fiance is dead  and they should leave her alone now. As if they would take her word for  it!<br />I prefer intelligent protagonists, so I don't plan to read any  further Honey Huckleberry books. If you, too, prefer to read books where  the heroine acts in an intelligent manner, skip this one entirely.	2000-07-20
US	52987668	R9JF08HFDU3HZ	0380793806	367961273	Funeral Food (Tory Bauer Mystery)	Books	4	22	24	N	N	A delightful cozy	I had read the first two Tory Bauer books by Kathleen Taylor when each was originally published, and for some reason I can't remember I decided not to read any more of her books. However, as it was highly recommended to me  this week, I decided to give FUNERAL FOOD a try. I was pleasantly  surprised, as I enjoyed the book tremendously. Over 40, overweight, widowed  and terribly human, Tory is a heroine for the average American woman. I  certainly can identify with her. <br />Tory discovers the dead body of a young  Morman missionary in the closet of the cafe where she waitresses. Tory  thinks he is the victim of a love triangle, as her roommate Del has had eye  on the young man, rousing the ire of Del's current (and abusive)  flame.<br />While the identify of the murderer was obvious to me mid-way  through the book, I still enjoyed the book very much. The characters were  fully developed, and I laughed all the way through. Cozy lovers should find  FUNERAL FOOD a delight.	2000-07-19
US	52987668	R3K9WW7EBH8KS9	0440235235	510179462	Wash, Fold, and Die (Mandy Dyer Mystery)	Books	3	2	2	N	N	Lacks warmth	While I very much enjoyed the first Mandy Dyer books, I don't seem to like the most recent books as well. I think there's a lot of potential for this series, if the author can just get the books back on the right track. For a  &quot;cozy&quot; mystery, there's not much coziness/intimate knowledge of  the protagonist/warmth.<br />Mandy wasn't much fun in WASH, FOLD AND DIE, and  I was disappointed that she allowed herself to be discarded and then picked  up at will by homicide detective Stan, her so-called boyfriend. Doesn't the  woman have any pride at all? The man dumped her 9 months previously, and  then pops up one day on official business and Mandy is all ready to start  dating him again.<br />As far as the mystery goes, I liked it somewhat. I  didn't get so involved in the story line that I was waiting breathlessly  for all to be revealed. There were a couple times I felt Mandy behaved  recklessly and illogically (after all, a killer is loose!). Doesn't the  woman have any sense of self-preservation?<br />On the positive side, I felt  as though I were back in Colorado; the descriptions of winter scenes and  clothing requirements reminded me vividly why I no longer live there! And  Mandy always provides us with helpful stain removal tips, such as how to  remove grape juice stains from carpets and clothing.	2000-07-18
US	52987668	R373LAJO8PJ2TZ	0440226422	782949709	Dating Can be Deadly	Books	4	11	11	N	N	Fun and Quirky Characters	After 22 years of marriage and nearly 9 years of being divorced, Jimi Plain's family has decided she needs to start dating, and they give her a gift certificate to &quot;The New You&quot; dating service. Jimi is less  than thrilled, as she's content with her life as it is, but she don't want  to hurt her grandmother's and daughters' feelings, so she finally goes to  The New You to tape her &quot;Before&quot; video. Once there, Jimi  discovers her counselor's dead body, and Jimi soon learns that just about  everyone had a motive for killing the woman. <br />The only drawback I had was  the way Jimi interrogated all the suspects. At times it felt like a scene  from &quot;Dragnet&quot;, with Jimi constantly asking people leading  questions, just as though she were a police officer. And what's more, the  characters answered her questions without hesitation. This didn't seem  believeable to me.<br />There are lots of fun and quirkly characters in DATING  CAN BE DEADLY. I enjoyed becoming involved with Jimi and her family, and I  look forward to further books in this series.	2000-07-18
US	52987668	R2JIWRFKK8971H	0505523876	735348451	Truly, Madly Viking (Time of Your Life)	Books	3	3	7	N	N	The Vikings are back!	I was thrilled to see a new Sandra Hill romance in the bookstore, and I couldn't wait to read it. There's lots of sizzle between Joe the Viking and Maggie, his dock-whore (doctor), and there were lots of funny scenes in the  book. A very nice romance developes between Joe and Maggie.<br />Joe the  Viking is sent by his father on a quest to locate Joe's younger brother,  Rolf (whose story is told in THE LAST VIKING). Through the auspices of a  killer whale, Joe is transported to the year 2000 where he meets Maggie, a  psychologist. As he arrives stark naked (except for his longsword) on  whaleback at a Galveston ocean park, he is thought to be mentally unstable.  Maggie arranges to have Joe brought to her clinic for observation. Joe soon  escapes to search for his whale so he may return to his own time. It's not  so easy to return back in time, and Joe must figure out where his destiny  lies and with whom. <br />While the book has many good points that make it a  good read, there were several things that bugged me in TRULY, MADLY VIKING.  First of all, I found it very difficult to suspend belief. For some reason  the whale scenario just didn't work for me. I much preferred Hill's  previous book, THE LOVE POTION, as it seemed much more reasonable. Of  course, it wasn't a time-travel book.<br />Secondly, the cover art of TRULY,  MADLY VIKING left much to be desired. It's obvious that whoever chose the  cover (and the authors never have much input into this area) feel that  women readers only want to see unclothed, impersonal male bodies. Why else  cut off the model's head and emphasize certain other parts of his body?  This is the type of thinking that gives romances a bad name.<br />The third  thing that bugged me was the title itself. I never could figure out how it  related to the story.<br />These 3 things that bothered me are small, and they  didn't prevent me from enjoying the book. If you like Viking hunks, you'll  like TRULY, MADLY VIKING.	2000-07-17
US	52987668	R1N4DDUYFBDRZF	0821762141	101291384	The Bride Quilt	Books	4	7	7	N	N	A touching, heartwarming romance	THE BRIDE QUILT is a delightful book that chronicles the growth of Madeline Preston, a 19-year old spinster who flees an arranged marriage to be a frontiersman's mail order bride. Unfortunately, Maddie is plagued by  bad decisions (both her own and the guide leading her party out west), and  finds herself stranded in the Rocky Mountain wilderness in the middle of  winter with a snowstorm on the way. She stumbles across an isolated cabin  occupied by a huge bear of a mountain man and his five newly orphaned  nieces and nephews.<br />Maggie knows nothing about being a pioneer woman, but  she's willing to learn, and learn she does. Along the way she falls in love  with the children and their uncle, who lost his wife and unborn child nine  years previously and now shys away from permanent relationships. Their  romance provides a touching and heartwarming story.	2000-07-16
US	52987668	R12D49XPXWZWQ	0425160971	724028099	Death of Dimpled Darling	Books	3	4	6	N	N	Wedding bells and murder go hand-in-hand	Perpetual office temp Bonnie Indermill returns once again in DEATH OF A DIMPLED DARLING. In this go around, Bonnie is assisting her best friend Amanda with her wedding consultant business. Amanda, who has just learned  she's pregnant, is having a few medical problems, and Bonnie steps in to  cover for her with Amanda's one and only client. Dealing with wedding  chores is not Bonnie's cup of tea, but she perseveres and handles most  problems with aplomb. When one of the bridesmaids is murdered, Bonnie does  her best to deal with that problem, too.<br />Being closely involved with  wedding plans causes Bonnie to re-examine her personal life. She's been  engaged to Sam for months and has yet to name a wedding date. Actually, I  found this plot line to be of most interest, as the killer's identity was  obvious to me mid-way through the book.<br />DEATH OF A DIMPLED DARLING is an  enjoyable read, but not one of the author's best, in my opinion, as I  prefer books in which the author keeps me guessing right to the end.	2000-07-16
US	52987668	R3RQL78WUIK5XQ	0505523663	864914506	No Strings Attached	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Light Escapism	This light romance requires you to suspend your belief (there's a genie in a bottle, a talking  cat, and a sea serpent in this book!), but it's an enjoyable romance. Holly O'Mara is a very likeable heroine. Unfortunately,  the hero combines a great body and attractive personality with the tendency  to bolt at inoportune moments (he leaves Holly high and dry twice without  notice!). A nice, easy to read romance you can take on vacation with you.	2000-07-15
US	52987668	R2QFOVV3H6O2OK	0425173550	867508319	Dead Angler (Loon Lake Fishing Mystery)	Books	2	22	34	N	N	Boring	While I liked retired dentist Paul Osborne, I failed to connect with him. Consequently, I didn't really care what happened to him and the rest of the characters, and I found myself skipping sections of the book. Perhaps I  would have become more involved and enjoyed the book more if it had been  written in the first person, rather than in third person. Also, I prefer  that the protagonist in the books I read be female. Contrary to the cover  blurb that indicates the female police chief is the protagonist, the real  main character in this book is Paul Osborne. The female character is just  an add-on.<br />I do think readers who really, really enjoy fishing will like  this book, as a great deal of time is spent with the characters engaged in  fishing or talking about fishing or thinking about fishing.	2000-07-14
US	52987668	RRBM8GM4KGI3C	0380805707	446453224	A Secret Love (Cynster Novels)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Another Cynster bites the dust!	In A SECRET LOVE, once again we meet the Cynster family. This time it is Gabriel who finally succumbs to love. Both Gabriel and Lady Allie are strong, likeable characters, and I avidly followed their attempts to rescue  her family fortune. Passion soon sizzles between the two characters.<br />With  the Cynster Family stories, Laurens has founded a terrific dynasty. It's a  shame there is only one unattached male Cynster left! I like the Cynster  stories much better than Laurens' earlier works. Be sure to collect them  all now while they are still available, as I expect they will become  collector's items in the future.	2000-07-13
US	52987668	R1QVBJ5ASVQU0J	0425175111	449606044	A Stitch in Time (Needlecraft Mystery)	Books	4	13	14	N	N	A delightful needlecraft cozy	A STITCH IN TIME is the 3rd book in this needlecraft series by Monica  Ferris. Betsy, the protagonist, is a novice at needlecrafts, but she is  aided by a number of knowledgeable and quirky crafters in running her shop,  Crewel World. When a tapestry is found hidden in the local church, Betsy  donates the materials necessary to repair it. It soon becomes obvious that  someone didn't want the tapestry found, and Betsy is nearly killed several  times in order to maintain the secret of the tapestry. The killer's  identity was obvious to me halfway through the book, but I very much  enjoyed the book anyway. I think most cozy lovers will find this series  delightful.	2000-07-10
US	52987668	R3T9F1NEMQXH2X	0451200551	399447374	Murder of a Small-Town Honey (Scumble River Mysteries, Book 1)	Books	4	13	13	N	N	A likeable heroine I can identify with	The first in a new mystery series, MURDER OF A SMALL-TOWN HONEY is a  charming look at small town life. We meet Skye Denison as she is judging  the chokeberry jelly contest at the Chokeberry Days festival in her home  town of Scummy, er, Scumble River. A woman is killed at the festival, and  Skye's brother is the main suspect. To protect her brother, Skye  investigates and discovers there are some secrets in a small town afer  all.<br />Skye is a likeable protagonist, but there is much about her past  life we don't know. We do know she was fired from her previous job in a big  city, she was jilted by her fiance, and she's totally broke, but we never  learn exactly why all these things occurred. Skye starts rebuilding her  life, and I'm rooting for her all the way. I'm looking forward to the next  in this series.	2000-07-10
US	52987668	R1S2RWPWFS2IOV	0380805332	558873556	Don't Drink the Water: An E.J. Pugh Mystery (E. J. Pugh Mysteries)	Books	4	12	13	N	N	Great to take to the beach	Although E.J. Pugh and her 3 sisters don't get along, their mother  contrives a group vacation for them in the Virgin Islands. (Though I noted  that mom didn't go along on vacation with the group!) Naturally E.J. finds  several dead bodies, to the point that the local police chief says E.J.'s  group causes him more problems than college kids on Spring Break.<br />While  exploring the island wonders and solving the murders, E.J. finds herself  delving deeper into her family relationships. A fast, easy read, you can  take this one to the beach with you. I found myself laughing out loud at  times.	2000-07-10
US	52987668	R2IBXA6C9DXK0O	0439139597	667539744	Harry Potter And The Goblet Of Fire (Book 4)	Books	5	2	2	N	Y	Lots of action, but a darker story	My first impression after reading the book was how similar it was to the Star Wars movies when they first came out. Everyone anxiously awaited The Empire Strikes Back, but as the bad guys seemed more powerful and kept the  heroes on the run throughout, many fans were disappointed. THE GOBLET OF  FIRE is very similar, as Lord Voldemort returns to power and keeps all our  heroes struggling to keep up with him.<br />THE GOBLET OF FIRE, as promised by  J. K. Rowling, is a much darker story than the first 3 books. There's lots  of action throughout, as we follow Harry to the World Quidditch Cup in  August and then to Hogwarts for the school year and the first Triwizard  Tournament in ages. Due to the high death toll in previous tournaments,  they had been discontinued, so everyone is a bit apprehensive. Students  from 2 other wizardry schools in Europe have been invited to participate,  and only the most senior students (17 years old) may enter their names into  the Goblet of Fire. The Goblet selects one student from each of the 3  schools as entrants, so imagine everyone's surprise when a  4th person is  selected--Harry! But who placed his name in the Goblet of Fire? Danger  abounds in every tournament event.<br />We see our old friends and meet many  new characters. As always, the people in Harry's world are well drawn and  very interesting. I would have liked to see more day-to-day life at  Hogwarts, as that has always been the most fun for me. In spite of running  over the entire year, we see very little of classes as the book  concentrates more on the tournament. The book ends after the tournament is  over, but don't expect a nice resolution to the story. The characters are  busy planning avenues of attack against Lord Voldemort, which sets things  up for Book 5. Be sure to read these books in order, as each builds on the  previous.	2000-07-09
US	52987668	R23R6ZLRDC07XC	157566450X	497871464	Captivated: Ecstasy/ Bound and Determined/ Dark Desires/ A Lady's Preference	Books	2	4	6	N	N	Disappointing	Robin Schone's A LADY'S PLEASURE is the only good story in this  compilation of romances. A nice romance and lots of sizzle, well up to  Schone's usual standards. For this reason alone, I recommend this  book.<br />However, the other stories ranged from ok to disgusting. Small's  book had lots of sizzle, but it was lacking in the romance department. I  wasn't able to get through more than a few pages of the Johnson and Devine  stories. Johnson's hero was a boar from the first paragraph. Devine's hero  was the worst of the bunch, as he was disgustingly abusive to his bride.  Skip both of these stories.	2000-07-09
US	52987668	R3AIQ1T6O60HY9	0345429338	63545360	Helen Hath No Fury: An Amanda Pepper Mystery (Amanda Pepper Mysteries)	Books	3	0	2	N	N	Ho hum	This latest Amanda Pepper mystery lacks the punch of the earlier books in this series. I was able to figure out whodunit mid-way through the book, which was disappointing to me (the best books keep me guessing right to the  last page). The best part of HELEN HATH NO FURY was the last chapter, where  we finally learn C.K.'s real name, Amanda and C.K. make a decision about  their relationship, and we learn something surprising about Helga the  Office Witch. Perhaps Roberts has lost interest in these characters. If  there are further books in this series, I'll wait for them in paperback.	2000-07-08
US	52987668	R3KV88CDHOM3HU	0505520915	113650418	The Princess and the Pea (Faerie Tale Romance)	Books	4	27	28	N	N	An entertaining read	THE PRINCESS AND THE PEA is a bit hard to find, as it is out of print, but  it is worth the search. It's an entertaining version of the princess and  the pea fairy tale by Hans Christian Anderson. Set in 1895, the  &quot;princess&quot; is Cece, an America heiress in her early twenties  whose family thinks it time for her to be married. The &quot;prince&quot;  is the Earl of Greystone (hey, wasn't that Tarzan's title?), who  desperately needs to marry an heiress to repair his family estates and  fortune. The two fall in love at first sight, both unaware of the other's  true identity and circumstances. The Earl then dumps Cece, as he must marry  for money. When he discovers she's an heiress, he thinks all turned out  perfectly. Cece soon sets him straight, and he must earn his way back into  her good graces. The Earl's mother sets many tests for Cece to pass before  true long conquers all. Cece is a strong heroine, well able to deal with  stuffy peers and meddling mothers-in-law. A delightful and entertaining  story. Be sure to find this one!	2000-07-08
US	52987668	R3M5TUD5QF1D0M	0877192685	492383214	The Case of the Black-Hooded Hangmans (Hank the Cowdog 24)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Delightful	What's better than a Hank the Cowdog book? Listening to theaudio cassettes, of course! The author himself does all the voices,and as usual, he brings the characters to life. In this adventure, Hank, Drover and Little Alfred must track and save Eddie the Raccoon from mysterious black-hooded hangmans in a haunted house. And if that isn't enough adventure for one day, Hank then has to save everyone from the neighbor's bull. Sure to please children of all ages and their parents, too.	2000-07-07
US	52987668	R1YJ872J8EMFE5	0380976595	734607570	He Shall Thunder In The Sky: An Amelia Peabody Mystery	Books	1	3	16	N	N	PLEASE--no more!	Although I loved, simply loved CROCODILE ON THE SANDBANK when it came out all those years ago, and I was tickled to death when Peter wrote a sequel to it, enough is enough! I can no longer distinguish a thing between each  Amelia book, and I find I don't like Ramses and Nefret nearly as much as I  liked Amelia and Emerson. What's more, I don't care a bit what happens to  them. <br />Let's stop beating this poor, tired horse. It's time to move on to  other books and series, please! I'd be thrilled to read a Vicky Bliss or  Jacqueline Kirby book, or even something new.	2000-07-07
US	52987668	R4VS47SH892TA	0590353403	667539744	Harry Potter And The Sorcerer's Stone	Books	5	2	2	N	Y	A masterpiece for all ages	After hearing so many recommendations on a Georgette Heyer listserv I belong to, I tried out HARRY POTTER AND THE SORCERER'S STONE. I was quickly drawn into Harry's world, and I just had to read the others in the  series.<br />J. K. Rowling has created a very detailed world that people of  all ages will find enchanting. Harry quickly earns our sympathy when we  meet his horrible family, the Dursleys. We share Harry's joy when he  escapes their clutches to attend Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and  Wizardry, where he is appreciated for the first time he can remember.  Hurrah for Harry Potter and J. K. Rowling!	2000-07-07
US	52987668	RVQ7TCZGHK7NL	0425169855	646195397	Date with the Perfect Dead Man (Hannah and Kiki Mysteries)	Books	4	27	27	N	N	I laughed out loud!	DATE WITH THE PERFECT DEAD MAN is an engaging and humorous entry in the Hannah and Kiki mystery series. These two sisters don't let a little thing like being of retirement age slow them down one bit! Kiki dresses like a  teenager and has the hormones to match. Hannah is more dignified and  reserved, but she still manages to keep a man or two on her string. What's  more, they are able to investigate and solve murders with panache.<br />I  didn't figure out who killed the obnoxious but still glamorous Hollywood  bigshot until all was revealed at the end of the book, so the author was  successful in that respect (a major plus for me). This is one of the  funniest books I've read this year. Be sure to read both books in this  series. I'm waiting for the next one to be published.	2000-07-06
US	52987668	REAEUT7RAITFT	0553801252	623737680	The Bride and the Beast	Books	3	4	9	N	N	Wait for the paperback!	THE BRIDE AND THE BEAST is Medeiros' version of &quot;Beauty and the Beast&quot; meets &quot;Cinderella&quot;. There are a few good points--the bride is a larger-sized woman with a good heart and a strong personality,   and she's intelligent to boot. Unfortunately, the book lacked that certain  something that either makes or breaks a book for me. I also felt the  bride's motivation for allowing herself to be &quot;sacrificed&quot; to the  beast (which we discover at the end of the book) was totally out of  character.<br />Not one of the author's best works. Wait for the paperback, as  it's not worth the hardback price.	2000-07-06
US	52987668	R3SD48911XHKOP	0380795981	495033943	Killer Wedding (Madeline Bean Catering Mysteries #3)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	A delight!	KILLER WEDDING, the third in the Madeleine Bean culinary series, is a delight. Madeleine has three (count 'em, three!) men courting her, along with every less-than-successful catering firm in Southern California, all  who want her to buy them out. Farmer's fast-paced plotting kept me guessing  to the very end of the book. This one is sure to please any cozy lover.	2000-07-06
US	52987668	RA40U1WFI2NRN	0449001342	942913769	The Riddle of Alabaster Royal (Regency Romance)	Books	3	2	2	N	N	A mixed bag	It's hard for me to rate RIDDLE OF ALABASTER ROYAL, as I liked the mystery but disliked the romance (well, there wasn't any romance). I didn't figure out the identity of the villain at all, and the clues were there, so Veryan  was successful in that respect. However, her heroine, Consuela Jones,  wasn't likeable at all. When you combine that with a total lack of romantic  interest between the hero and heroine, you get a dud. What's more, as I  read the book, I was reminded constantly of plot devices used by Georgette  Heyer in her mysteries and romances such as THE QUIET GENTLEMAN and  FOOTSTEPS IN THE DARK. The ending was most unsatifactory, as it left the  reader hanging, but at least I'm not waiting on the edge of my chair for  the next in the series. I think I'll pass on future Veryans.	2000-07-06
US	52987668	R3NPOO0EYSNGUN	0141306785	933744440	The Case of the Saddle House Robbery #35 (Hank the Cowdog)	Books	2	2	3	N	N	Not up to standard	Usually the Hank books are delightful for all ages, so I was very disappointed with this latest book. THE SADDLEHOUSE MYSTERY seemed a bit disjointed, as we jumped from wierd Jake looking for Madagascar to the  saddle thief. It would have been better if Little Alfred had been included  in the story, as those stories tend to be the most endearing and  interesting.	2000-07-03
US	52987668	R1U5IYAVCUKUHQ	0373834489	81836383	The Corinthian	Books	5	4	9	N	N	A delightful romp!	If you haven't read THE CORINTHIAN, wait no longer! This is one of Georgette Heyer's most charming regencies, sure to delight fans of the regency genre. It has a bit of everything: a love interest, a bit of  skullduggery, and we get to see a bit of England as we follow along on a  &quot;road trip&quot;.	2000-07-02
US	52987668	R3CNBIACN34QI0	0373834586	321239264	Rogues' Reform	Books	4	7	7	N	N	The Lester Family!	Stephanie Laurens fans who have looked for the Lester family stories for years are in luck, as  ROGUE'S REFORM is a 3-in-1 combo book showcasing the Lester family. Long out of print, many fans have been unable to locate  copies of these books and consequently will be very pleased with ROGUE'S  REFORM. Although these stories don't sizzle as much as Lauren's other  series, the Cynster family stories, they are very nice regencies.	2000-07-02
US	52987668	R3BLEAN1OSABCN	1575665743	41748885	Going Out In Style (Dallas O'Connor Mysteries)	Books	3	3	4	N	N	A Zany Comedy	Look out, Dallas, Texas, here comes Dallas O'Connor! In this debut mystery by Chloe Green, we are introduced to Dallas O'Connor, a fashion stylist who finds the body of a model and immediately becomes the top suspect. To save  herself, Dallas hunts down the real murderer and provides the reader with  an up close and personal view of the Dallas fashion scene. An interesting  and zany read.	2000-07-02
US	52987668	R2QN2XT69359U0	0312971311	525744460	The Irish Cottage Murder: A Torrey Tunet Mystery (Torrey Tunet Mysteries)	Books	1	6	10	N	N	Didn't hold my interest	The cover blurb was attractive, but I couldn't get interested in this mystery, due to the constantly changing point of view. I like to get to know the protagonist, so this was a major flaw in the book for me. I think  I would have enjoyed the book more if Deere had kept to just one point of  view throughout.	2000-07-02
US	52987668	R3F1P4QE82ZZLS	0848813650	243424364	The Great Roxhythe	Books	1	142	167	N	N	THE GREAT ROXHYTHE by Georgette Heyer	If you're expecting one of Heyer's usual light-hearted regencies, you'll be extremely disappointed in THE GREAT ROXHYTHE. In fact, I would recommend you skip this one entirely. I found it as dull as ditch water and the  characters one-dimensional; definitely not up to the author's usual  standards. However, if you've read and enjoyed any of Heyer's other  historical novels (ROYAL ESCAPE, THE CONQUEROR, MY LORD JOHN, and SIMON THE  COLDHEART), you'll probably enjoy this one too.	2000-06-21
US	52987668	R29PDSV2TILMHV	0312246625	586083896	A Conventional Corpse	Books	4	7	7	N	N	A CONVENTIONAL CORPSE by Joan Hess	his latest Claire Molloy mystery is a hoot! In addition to the usual cast of characters, we meet five mystery authors and one editor who have come to Fayetteville, Arkansas to attend the first (perhaps only) &quot;Murder  Comes to Campus&quot; mystery convention. Claire, who had hoped to sell  tons to books to the 100 convention attendees, finds herself instead roped  into managing the convention when the original organizer is hospitalized.  Claire must deal with the 5 mystery guests of author and a troublesome  editor, all of whom are based on real-life people. Joan Hess and St  Martin's Press are sponsoring a &quot;Who Are These Characters Based  On?&quot; contest, but alas, we in Arizona are prohibited from entering. I  was able to figure out the real-life identity of 3 of the 6 characters (but  am I right?). See how many you can figure out! Oh, and while you're at it,  see if you can figure out whodunit. I was guessing until the very last  page.	2000-06-21
US	52987668	R2Q3NAWPSOPKJR	0312205406	963436946	Hot Six	Books	5	16	21	N	N	HOT SIX by Janet Evanovich	This latest entry in the Stephanie Plum series by Janet Evanovich is hilarious and fully up to her usual standards. Fans who have followed Stephanie's progress as a bounty hunter will be proud of her as she tackles  some of the biggest challenges in her new career: bringing in a homicidal  rapist FTA, babysitting a friend's dog, and providing room and board to  Grandma Mazur. If you liked HIGH FIVE, you'll love HOT SIX. And yes, you'll  find out who was at the door.	2000-06-20
US	52987668	R2L6FK0KRFAE4V	0877191794	950106640	The Wounded Buzzard on Christmas Eve	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Heart-warming; one of the best of the Hank tapes.	Slim, Little Alfred, Hank and Drover are headed to town for Slim's last-minute Christmas shopping, and who but Wallace the Buzzard flies into the truck windshield. Wounded and out of his mind, Wallace won't make it through the night without a little help from his friends. Fortunately, Slim is a soft touch, so he agrees to nurse Wallace back to health. After putting Wallace in an empty feed bag, they all continue on their way to the mighty metropolis of Twitchell, Texas. While Slim does his Christmas shopping for Sally May and Miss Viola, Little Alfred discovers why you should never, ever let the bird out of the bag! This tape includes two of my all-time favorite songs: &quot;My Daddy Had a Wreck Today&quot; and &quot;A Pox, A Pox on Emily Post!&quot;. This is a heart-warming tale, performed to perfection by the author, that you won't want to miss	1997-07-23
