US	52984061	R29MSHTA9KT308	0007156111	98149052	Man About Town	Books	3	1	4	N	N	Bleak look at gay middle life	Joel Lingemann works for the OLA in Washington, DC.  He has just broke up with his partner of 15 years.  He remembers the \\"man about town\\" he saw in a magazine when he was 14 and begins a project to find him.  Meanwhile, Joel tries to reinvent his sex life until he meets a young African-American, Michael Greeley.  Inserted into his personal life, is a bill he is helping to craft that would deny medical benefits to people becoming infect with HIV through unsafe practices.  He is horrified by this legislation, but find himself only helping through the process.  This piece his little closure except to reveal that it is w worthless legislation that if passed and signed will actually never be used.  The votes with help senators and congressmen retain their jobs. At times these discussions seem like references to Jim Wallis' God's Politics.   <br /> <br />  Merlis' story is a bleak look at gay middle life, especially when a long-term relationship dissolves.  Joel's partner, Sam, needs something he does not get from him.  Sam finds a 23-year-old twink, who leaves him and he is back in bars at 50 chasing somebody, anybody.  While Joel tries to do the same thing, he realizes that this chasing, whether in the bars or want-ads, leads nowhere.  He is bored with his life, his job and he has turned down two potential lovers. <br /> <br />  Michael is a challenge that is difficult to accept.  Joel cannot believe Michael   really could be happy with a 45-year-old bellied man.  Michael occasionally takes a small amount of money from Joel's wallet.  Joel wonders why until he understands that Michael wants him to know this.  Finally, Joel has to come to terms with reality.  The reality that the young guy he saw in a picture when he was 14 is now an old man.  He needs to face the challenge of taking care of himself.  He made even need to make a job change.  He has become so settled, he is sinking into a malaise.  Will he be able to accept the challenge of the relationship Michael offers?	2005-04-18
US	52984061	RII6Z2YUNI5WM	0854492860	855805826	An East Wind Blowing	Books	3	1	2	N	N	Fun	This is a fun story about two young Britons whose village is devastated by Angles, one is the chief's heir, the other is a freeman who has ambitions to be a warrior.  Both are brought low through this attack and have to become friends as they travel post-Roman Britain looking for safety and then joining the warriors of Eboracom.  In turn they learn the value of alliances and the part love plays in their lives.	2005-04-04
US	52984061	R2WICDSC4CTKY4	0826459498	64245048	A Question of Truth: Christianity and Homosexuality	Books	4	7	8	N	N	Exhausting argument, but enlightening	The contention of this book by Fr.  Moore is that documents recently written by the Holy See concerning homosexuality, their theological underpinnings and scripture references are incorrect.  Moore is a Thomist and argues effectively, although some may perceive these arguments as obtuse or lengthy.  This is the Thomistic manner and is both careful and systematic.  Additionally, Moore is careful not to challenge the Catholic Church's teaching that homosexual acts are immoral.  His book challenges the arguments in Persona Humana, Pastoral Care of Homosexual Persons and a Note on discrimination are not accurate.  The position of the Vatican in these publications cannot be maintained by the arguments they contain. <br /> <br />  Moore carefully examines scripture references by interpreting what these statements mean through the language and cultural context in which they have been written.  While making allowances that the Bible may in other places may condemn homosexual actions, the passages referred to in the above-mentioned documents cannot.  He also examines traditional teaching from Augustine to Aquinas and beyond.   <br /> <br />  This is not a popularly written book, but a careful one and deserves to be part of the Roman Catholic Church's examination of sexual morality.	2005-04-04
US	52984061	R3LQPOX48DYJY1	0758204051	647633295	Last Summer	Books	3	3	8	N	N	Made-for-TV Movie	This novel reads like a made-for-TV book.  There are numerous characters and subplots.  And as it ends happily, we can see the credits rolling over the happy little diverse family of gay people. <br /> <br />   There are books I refer to as \\"summer\\" reading meaning that they are light and entertaining.  This novel qualifies and in fact it is about summertime in Providence, Rhode Island, where gay people gather for their vacations.  Some of the characters are \\"Rounders\\" who stay in Providence all year and some come there to enjoy the sun, beach and the attractive people. <br /> <br />  Josh Felling is a copy writer who has recently broken up with his lvoer of eight years due to the other's one-time infidelity.  Felling's trauma over this has more to do with the predictability of his life.  Later when he will have a fling, he will remember some of their former stirrings he had before he settled into his relationship.  Ford does not comment on that.  One might have thought this could have led Josh to a better understanding of Doug and perhaps led to a reconciliation. <br /> <br />  Other characters include a gay film producer and his gay lover, who happens to be the big star of the moment.  How they work out their relationship both professionally and romantically provides some fun.  Jackie, an African-American lesbian ,wants to have a baby, has recovered from alcoholism, but still runs the bar she inherited and wonders when it will be time to leave.  Emmeline/Mason  wants to be totally a woman and has one more operation to complete the transformation.  Yet she still needs to come to terms with her family, importantly her dying mother.  She mothers the \\"newby\\" Toby whose first sex came crashing down when he realized he was a trick.   <br /> <br />  Ford's novel reads briskly, but has its own predictability, but one does not want \\"summer\\" reading to challenge one's deepest dreams.  One can imagine that as a movie this story would be brisk, entertaining and fanciful.  Andprobably forgotten the next day.  If one wants a more \\"literary\\" work, skip this one.  But it is certainly good reading for one's vacation.	2004-08-20
US	52984061	R1UXFP7QV0N6PI	1892065169	62811729	Kirith Kirin	Books	3	1	5	N	N	Nice fantasy but plodding	Kirith Krirn <br />  Jim Grimsley <br /> <br />  This is a fantasy story concerning a young boy who will become the next Wizard of the northern kingdoms.  The Prince to be King will fall in love with him and they will have adventures.  The plot moves slowly with attention to many details that are not obviously connected to the story line.  Unlike Robert Jordan, however, Grimsley does not overdo the language and culture.  Much there is here to link to history and culture.  Also there aren't monsters and a brace of enemies.  There is one Drugaen Keefax with whom Jessex struggles.  One apparent thing missing with Drugaen is why he turned to shadow.  Also why did Queen Arthryn allow him to bring shadow into the southern kingdom?    <br />	2004-08-19
US	52984061	R1AXF8HHJAIZGO	1400041600	777334531	Father's Day	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Effective intertwining of pieces of a life	Galanes adroitly blends the elements of Matthew Vaber's life.  The novel begins with a statement that Matthew's father committed suicide while he was still in college.  From that point we see Matthew traipsing through the Pump Line for the perfect man.  Matthew goes to the baths to have anonymous sex.  He yearns to find a boy friend and when he does, he keeps testing him.  His trips to see Goldstein the psychiatrist have him analyzing the doctor instead of investing into his own psyche.  Matthew's relationship with his mother derives from the need to be approved and the need to defeat her. <br /> <br />  Through these intersecting episodes we see a person emerge, fearful, nostalgic, yearning for what was lost.  He describes a scene of himself at the age of six when his father wakes him up and carries him to the kitchen to plan a surprise for his mother.  Matthew thinks that he'll go along with any plan as long as it involves being carried by his father.  The father's suicide leaves unfinished business.  It is that business that has Matthew sojourning so pathetically down dead ends.   <br /> <br />  Galanes is able to keep us interested in Matthew by hearing Matthew tell stories of himself that are at once pathetic and humorous.  We see Matthew with his worts, but we empathize with him, cheering him on to self-discovery.	2004-08-19
US	52984061	R1URK2J13NOT9I	0060633999	555529494	What Makes Us Catholic: Eight Gifts for Life	Books	4	14	24	N	N	A good overall review, but could be more specific	This book reads very much like a previous one he wrote, although this is much shorter.  Groome approaches being Catholic from the usual approach theologians do, the anthropological one.  Here, as in the previous book, Groome updates Catholic language and speaks of a Catholic world view in terms of prayer, justice, relationships, etc.  His ideas concerning church tradition are interesting He does not believe that the magisterium belongs exclusively to the hierarchy.  He encourages lay people to seize it, too.  He asserts that this tradition is developing.  This is an easy book to read for those with a background in theology.  A neophyte could also read this book with interest. <br /> <br />   <br /> <br />	2004-08-19
US	52984061	R10VYW0NQALR69	0789004968	78415098	The Mentor: A Memoir of Friendship and Gay Identity	Books	3	4	7	N	N	Interesting story	As a 23-year-old innocent from North Carolina, Jay met an engaging older man also from the South.  They began a relationship that never included sex, but involved the most intimate and important times of their lives.  Jay portrays his growth through drugs, relationships, family and careers along with Joe's.  It is a journey that continues.   <br />	2004-08-19
US	52984061	RC5PFHAAIW62J	0195141830	600036030	The Lost Christianities: The Battles for Scripture and the Faiths We Never Knew	Books	4	6	12	N	N	Interesting and riveting	Lost Christianities: The Battles for Scripture and The Faiths We Never Knew <br />  Bart D. Ehrman <br /> <br />  Ehrman writes of the various heresies that existed at the beginning of Christianity   Each of these had cults, books and rituals that emanated from some belief in Jesus the Christ.  In contrast there developed an orthodoxy, that Ehrman calls \\"proto-orthodoxy\\", meaning that it was the beginning of what seem \\"right thinking\\" for the early Christians.  This proto-orthodoxy challenged these cults, fight them, suppressed their writings and excommunicated their followers. In the end they won.  Christianity reflected the efforts of these early thinkers.  Many of the documents of these early movements have been lost.  Only with discovers in the 20th century have the words of these people come alive for us. <br /> <br />  Ehrman considers a number of these sects and tries to portray what might have happened if they had succeeded.  He concludes that proto-orthodoxy was the best of the lot in that it could be more rational and could serve the best interests of the Roman empire.  Some of these early sects might have so narrow that Christianity would never have become a reality.   <br /> <br />  Yet by reviewing these sects and writings we are able to come to some appreciated of what some people sincerely believed in.  Also Ehrman notes that proto-orthodoxy was diverse also and at times out orthordoxed itself.  Another important aspect of Ehrman's book is to see that proto-orthodox leaders also made forgeries of documents that became canonical.  Orthodoxy is not as monolithic that some of today's so-called orthodox adherents want everyone to believe	2004-08-19
US	52984061	RINLR1FJ2BIT1	0874779669	204439344	Coming Out Spiritually: The Next Step	Books	3	5	7	N	N	An Anthology of Spirituality	This book discusses a number of ways of \\"coming out.\\"  But de la Huerta concentrates on a spiritual foundation for this.  He begins his book with a story from a meeting of people from around the world forming United Religions.  The purpose is to find common ground among the world's religious traditions.  At this conference he spoke up about including gay people.  From some of the positive reception Huerta received, he continued discussions and developing research for this  book .<br />  In chapter one he names ten ways gay people are spiritual gifts to the world.  He presents evidence of these roles throughout history and in different cultures.  He stresses that being gay includes these types of dispositions, such as the caregiver, the risk taker, etc.  It is true that gay people experience these ten dispositions, but so do straight people.  Yet in numerous cultures the one who plays two sexes or changes their way of being is viewed as a manifestation of the presence of God in their society and they are respected and their advice followed.<br />  Huerta explores the background of many of the world's religions.  Through them  he discusses different spiritual disciplines people could practice to become aware of their own spirituality and connection to God.  That chapter becomes somewhat tedious in that everything presented is not going to be for everyone reading the book.  That chapter is best skimmed over and passages resonating with the reader can be explored.<br />  The last chapter of the book stresses doing things.  He presents a number of stories of people in traditional religions, non-traditional religions and in non-sectarian services.  He tries to show how these gay people find their spiritual well-being by putting their spirituality to work.  This sounds like a Protestant/Catholic faith/works dialogue.  What Huerta is stressing is that there are needs in the world around us, our neighborhoods and cities.  Gay people do have disposition for service and leadership.  They can find spiritual health as well as personal well-being in taking part.  Sometimes this can lead to understanding.<br />  There are some interesting discussions of spirituality in this book by several people Huerta has interviewed.  Other people's stories of coming out are touching and challenging.  This is a good book to read for information.  His index in the back offers lists of religions and services for gay people to consider.	2003-12-12
US	52984061	R1FU1XFO3HW2L4	0312205147	543338950	The Coming Storm	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Interesting characters	This novel of repression being lived in a New York boarding school may deal with uncomfortable topics, especially sex with a minor.  Behind much of the narrative tension the repressed and suppressed desire influences the lives of various people.  Noah Lathrop III, scion of a wealthy nation-maker, is a confused and troubled teen-ager.  Prone to accidents, he lives without the nurturing attention of parents and family.  Tracy Parker, the new teacher, is his idol and his idol is falling in love with him.  But this relationship has had a precedent at the Forge School and headmaster Louis Tremper has had an involvement with it.  Tremper himself finds he is attracted to Parker and attempts to share with him his love of music.  <br />  The storm of the plot gathers and comes to grips during a New Year's Even blizzard that finds repression exploding and brings all the tensions of the characters into direct confrontation.  Russell touches on these relationships in a realistic rather romantic manner, but his denouement is somewhat too pat.  The deus ex machina ending does not really deal with the effects of the storm.<br />  The art of this novel, however, is the blending of several characters as they move to some transition in their lives.  They each touch and change and then move on.  In some there is growth; in others only acknowledgment. The threads that are not tied reinforce the feeling that human beings may have a relentless destiny to live out interior forces they do not understand and may continue not to understand.  Until the next storm.	2003-04-22
US	52984061	R3TMPEQQT2Z2GG	006065340X	598071688	Lives of the Saints: From Mary and Francis of Assisi to John XXIII and Mother Teresa	Books	4	23	27	N	N	Succinct and ecumenical	Lives of the Saints<BR>  Richard McBrien<br />  McBrien's compilation of saints for each day covers a multitude of canonized and non-canonized people.  He also offers saints who are recognized by the Anglican/Episcopalian, Lutheran and Greek Orthodox churches.  His descriptions are short, comparatively with Butler's descriptions, but non-devotional.  He includes in his short essays references to history, legend and myth.  This book can exist along side other longer works and can offer some perspectives that others do not.	2003-01-01
US	52984061	R173RHEOP2FHV8	0786868139	384130626	The Snow Garden: A Novel	Books	3	5	6	N	N	A whimpering second novel	The second Rice novel is something of a mystery again.  Rice weaves gay and straight characters in such a way that, while his main characters are gay, his novel resembles fiction written by straight authors in that the sexuality of the character is only part of the story.  Neither book is a gay book.<br />  The novel involves several freshmen at a prestigious eastern university, who are trying to adjust to college life.  Some are not what they appear.  Jesse, Kathryn and Randall are hiding things from their past.  Unfortunately, these hidden secrets, once revealed, are not all that compelling. The mystery part of the novel involves accidents that may have been murders.  And these are never really clarified.<br />  The book engages the characters in engrossing conversation, but the characterization does not seem to move.  Jesse Lowry, for one, is intriguing, but is dispatched with his secrets not fully explored.  <br />  Rice's first novel has more power in its mystery.  This novel whimpers.	2002-12-31
US	52984061	R3RKV2LFR77R94	0312289480	302465668	The Year of Ice: A Novel	Books	3	2	5	N	N	Pat ending pushes credibility	At times this novel is very frustrating because the reader keeps waiting for Kevin Doyle finally to bed someone.  But this novel is a little more than a teen-age awakening to sexuality.  Kevin Doyle lives with his father in Minneapolis/St. Paul.  It is now two years since his mother died in a car accident.  Kevin is a senior in high school and not looking forward to a career in college or technical school.  He is infatuated with a boy he abuses and he lets girls fall in love with him because he needs everyone to think he is straight.<br />  During this year of \\"ice\\" in which he ponders his mother's death, Kevin deals with widows who want to marry his father, his father, who has difficulty staying sober and stable, his Aunt Nora, an Irish woman and sister of his mother, who tries to tell him what he should think and do, his friends Tommy and Rick who depend on his being the alpha.  <br />  Malloy tries to work reconciliation into the last fourth of the novel, but so much gets ripped apart in Kevin's life the reader wonders how Kevin is satisfied with that.  While it is certainly a truism that people maintain ambiguous relationships with family members and close friends, this part of the novel does not convince and feels to pat.<br />  But sure finding the means of reconciling oneself with one's own being, one's family and friends is part of the growing process.  And while Malloy does not suggest that this is achieved, he leads the reader into thinking it is well on its way.  This is not dramatically satisfying.  <br />  There is growth in Kevin and some of the others in the novel.  The atmosphere is bleak, a reminder of the film Fargo, another Minnesota story.  And one wonders is the stupidity some of the characters show will ever lead to growth.  But in many characters there is some sort of self-acknowledgment and that is hopeful.  For three fourths of the way, this book is convincing.	2002-12-01
US	52984061	RM4SZLRK73APR	157731140X	419541583	The Mystic Heart: Discovering a Universal Spirituality in the World's Religions	Books	5	31	31	N	N	How we can be one	The Second Vatican Council issued a document called Nostrae Aetate, which called for dialogue among all religions in terms of prayer and spirituality.  The Cistercians and Benedictines were commissioned to lead this dialogue.  Since that time there have been cross spiritual or interspiritual dialogue among Christians, Buddhists, Hindus, Moslems and others.  Wayne Teasdale is a Benedictine monk who has spent considerable time studying the religions of the east.  In this book he writes of the different emphases of these religions as well as their commonality.  He maintains that spirituality is the work of all religions and cultures.  He blends insights from spiritual masters of the east and west.  For Christians, Teasdale notes how some practices in eastern religions match those of Christianity. The devotion to the Sacred Heart is much the same as the eastern practice of being one with God in compassion.  The united presence of all people and God relates to the Cathgolic devotion to the Eucharist.<BR>  <BR>  Teasdale calls not for a bland homogenous spirituality, but one which does not cultural accretions to blind people to the beauty of prayer, devotions and mysticism available to all.  This movement is not a denial of a particular religion, but a way in which all religions can benefit.  Additionally, one can find support from one's own tradition. And yet receive insight from another that enhances one's own.  This book offers hope that spirituality can unite humankind, not divide.	2002-11-04
US	52984061	R5GF3M4P4KSBF	0684853205	987530685	A Mind of Its Own: A Cultural History of the Penis	Books	4	9	13	N	N	Scholarly without the verbage	This elongated book covers how human beings thought of the penis.  What some may assume to be a light, caustic treatment requires some background in theology, classical philosophy, church history, Freudian psychology and 20th century feminism.  By treating these and other topics Friedman has constructed a book that describes how humans viewed sexuality, especially the role of the penis.  At times the penis is considered the source of evil and original sin, at other times man's greatest accomplishment.  In almost cyclical ways the penis is reviled and adored.  It seems that at least in medical science myths and incredible conclusions stand side by side with revelations that give humans true insight.  One wonders if what we know now is as undependable as some of medicine's earlier forays into the study of the penis.<br />  Friedman ends his book in the Age of Viagra, pointing out that there are no long-range studies of men's uses of this drug.  Who knows what we may discover about this.  Certainly some men have been experiencing heart problems in conjunction with the use of this drug.  But what the drug accomplishes is to move a man's relationship to his penis away from being out of control to well within his power to control.  And while some feminists see Viagra as a backward step to men understanding that sex is based on relationship, nevertheless many men are finding that their urological problems are not relational.<br />  Friedman makes medical and philosophical matters palpable and readable for many interested in this treatment.	2002-08-25
US	52984061	RXTJECS78X0EC	0385494106	322130850	Papal Sin: Structures of Deceit	Books	5	15	22	N	N	Strong language indicts church leadership	Garry Wills writes about the structure of deceit that the popes have used, especially in the 20th century, to promote the teachings of the Catholic Church.  Starting with the Holocaust, Wills discusses the involvement of the popes either in speaking out against the persecution of the Jews or their silence.  He notes the canonization of Edith Stein and Maximilian Kolbe as disingenuous examples.  In Stein's case Wills claims the Church was interested only because she converted to Catholicism.  With Kolbe, one has to consider his long time involvement in a Marian society that published anti-semitic propaganda in Poland.<br />  Wills discusses celibacy and women as priests.  He demonstrates how the arguments supporting or opposing these positions have changed, with much emphasis on the manipulation and deliberate misreading of scripture.<br />  Each chapter of this book takes contemporary issues, some of which go back in time,   and he shows how the Vatican promotes its causes without regard to historical, scientific and even theological truth.<br />  Wills does not hold back his criticism as he is not afraid to used the word \\"deceit\\" many times through the book.  Yet he makes a very strong case for his position.  Perhaps theologians with a mandatum could not be as honest as a Catholic lau journalist who has no hierarchical position to lose.  And that is both a pity and an indictment against those who govern the Catholic Church.	2002-08-11
US	52984061	R2V5GIZBBLDQ5P	0802136621	129559433	Allan Stein	Books	3	4	5	N	N	Intriguing, but ultimately disappointing	This novel mixes art history with the fictional present.  Matthew, a young teacher in a private school, is accused of molesting one of his students.  The turth of this is is that he has not molested him - yet.  Ironically his suspension from the school gives him and the student the opportunity to consummate these accusations, from which Matthew is even more ironically cleared.<br />  During his suspension, Matthew and his friend Herbert, an art museum curator, discuss a painting by Picasso called Boy Leading a Horse.  Herbert discusses the painting and the past that the boy was the nephew of Gertrude Stein.  He suggests there must be sketches this boy that somehow could be obtained by going to Paris and meeting the family.  Matthew now interested in Allan Stein, long dead by this time, gets Herbert's permission to assume his identity, fly to Paris and hunt for evidence and sketches of Allan.  <br />  Matthew stays with the Dupaigne family and becomes attracted to fifteeen-year-old Stephane.  At this point author Stadler interposes Allan Stein's life as a teen-ager as a counterpoint to Matthew's attraction to Stephane.  It is as though Matthew obsessed with Allan is trying to seduce a boy who was Stephane's age in the early 1900's with Stephen himself.<br />  This is an interesting concept, but the last several chapters of the book become confused as Matthew attempts to seduce Stephane before and during a trip Matthew makes with him which is tracing a trip Allan took with his parents and a woman to whom he was attracted.	2002-08-10
US	52984061	REYVHP1IO3O63	0060608145	609607320	Jesus: A New Vision: Spirit, Culture, and the Life of Discipleship	Books	4	18	20	N	N	Concise presentation	Marcus Borg explores the spirit, culture and the life of the early Christian community.  He writes that Jesus came to proclaim the kingdom of compassion as contrasted to the kingdom of holiness.  His aphorisms, parables and actions as seen in the New Testament underscore this proclamation.<br />  Borg's treatment of culture is one of the main features of this book.  He explains cultures in transition, in conflict with each other.  He sees Jesus as a prophet, sage and miracle worker, but most importantly as a leader of a reform movement with Judaism.  Borg's Jesus reflects on the culture of holiness and sees how it creates unconscionable burdens for people.  The son of God proclaims that his father does not demand holiness, but compassion.  And in an important way compassion is more difficult than holiness, as holiness tends to be juridical.  Compassion challenges people and their societies more fundamentally.<br />  Part 1 of the book concerns the life of the Spirit as seen in the life of Jesus.  Part 2 deals with Jesus and his culture.  In this section Bork treats of the various ways Jesus is seen: as sage, prophet, reform movement leader.  As he writes Borg tens to be quantitative.  He breaks things down into compartments in order for the reader to understand a concept by its parts.  It is easy to underline statements in this book.<br />  While Bork does not seem to present new material, he utilizes research and explains it in ways that do not have the constant citing that other scholars apply.  There are notes from each chapter, with annotations that explain more fully.  Borg's style makes an easier read.	2002-08-03
US	52984061	R2FIKRWRNEFW2N	0385494181	681247843	The Holy Longing: The Search for a Christian Spirituality	Books	3	44	74	N	N	At times a 5  at times a 1	Fr. Rolheiser explains at the beginning of this book that he is anot about to answer profound questions, but in a simple manner describe spirituality from a Christian point of view.  This is he does.  Along the way he does raise profound issues, causing both argument and agreement.  But at all times opportunities for reflection.<br />  His chapter on eccclesiology expresses the traditional Roman Catholic perspective that one ought to attend Mass on Sundays.  He does not let off on anything personal:  prayer, morality, or even relationship to God.  But his reasoning and allegories cause one to reflect if staying away from Sunday Mass is really in one's best interest.  Catholics used to be told that they had to do certain things because the hierarchy in the Church knew better.  Rolheiser does not write in this manner.  His arguments are simple and based in human experience.  <br />  The chapter on sexuality reaches grandiose debate at times.  One can sense his overreaching, especially when he tries to describe what sexuality is by numerous examples, such as a young man just having a drowning person.  He is trying to demonstrate how sexuality is an integrated part of ourselves, apart from genital sexuality, which is sexual intercourse.  He may actually reach vulnerable places for some readers, not this one.<br />  He writes of the meaning of incarnation in one's life.  Prayer, in this regard, he writes, is made through Christ. In other words, one cannot pray for something if one is not already involved in bringing it about.  He speaks of prayer as shared existence with others, thus he argues prayer cannot remain only private.  <br />  The Paschal Mystery involves death, resurrection, a Forty Day grieving period, an ascension of letting go and a pentecost to be filled with the Spirit or the renewal of life.  Rolheiser demonstrates how this works in our natural lives.  This is the strongest chapter of the book as it is the most applicable.<br />  At times this book is infuriating, as Rolheiszer likes to write: if this is true, and it is. . . .  At other times this book challenges one to reflect on how one is living and if perhaps changes might make one happier and closer to God.	2002-07-21
US	52984061	R306SYSO0PBR2S	0743222946	337618584	At Swim, Two Boys	Books	5	3	5	N	N	The Cost of Ideals	The story takes place prior to the Easter Uprising of 1916 in Ireland.  Doyler, a black skinned Irish boy and Jim Mack a young scholar meet and begin am unusual friendship that is filled with erotic tension.  Doyler offers to teach Jim to swim to the Muglins, an island quite a distance from the Forty Foot, where the gentlemen bathe.<br />During this time, Doyler becomes involved with the Citizen's Army, Jim's brother Gordie is lost in the World War I at Gallipoli, Jim's father attempts to raise himself in society, Jim has a kind of lewd relationship with Brother Polycarp.   Anthony MacMurrough is the nephew of Eveline who is a kind of matriarch of the area.  Her father once led the Irish in rebellion against the English.  She now joins with a new young curate in establishing Irish language and hero making in Jim's school.  MacMurrough has been having a sexual relationship with Doyler.  But he becomes exceedingly fond of Jim.  He withholds his sexual desires in order to encourage Jim to give himself to Doyler like the soldiers of Thebes.<br />Classical literature is rife in this novel, as one of MacEmm's imaginary characters is one Scrotes, a representation of the philosopher Socrates.   These characters and several more take us to the Uprising with the disastrous results that occurred then.<br />What is confusing to me is the comment toward the end of the novel about the Free State Troopers and more bitter defeats.  Ireland achieved independence from Britain in the early 20's.  I do not understand these references.<br />Moments in this novel sometimes soar with beauty, especially of the relationship of the two boys.  Being so young they do not seem to understand the price of ideals.  As Mack only comes to understand after he has encouraged his older son to achieve glory in the Army.  <br />As one begins to the reada this story, the language and vocabulary of what appears to be authentic voices of the time. challenges one's ability to understand.  Yet the rhythm of speech begins to be felt and captures one's imagination and heart.  Few books have moved this reader as this one.<br />One theme seems to run through the story and that is the contrast between an ideal of freedom for an oppressed nation and the cost that is required. O'Neill raises the question:  why do young people have to give themselves up to promote the causes older people cherish?  Can there be no peace without the shedding of blood?  His story gives one pause when one hears of the need for vindication.  At whose cost?	2002-07-19
US	52984061	RVSGGOXABKOBI	0877932433	632858424	Alone With the Alone: An Eight-Day Retreat	Books	2	2	10	N	N	Too much discoursing	Twenty years ago George Maloney wrote this eight-day retreat.  His scriptural references seem quite dated.  While there are parts to this retreat that can be beautiful and thought-provoking, other parts seem to be so much verbage.  For instance, he delves into the Eucharist with great enthusiasm.  But too much discourse concerning this mystery can make it seem irrelevant and remote.  At the end of the retreat he writes that Christ is available to all, but will give himself to those who make a conscious effort to know him.  To this reader, this is the kind of locked in logic of Catholic teaching.  A statement is made and then withdrawn almost.  What is this conscious effort?  What does it require?  Maloney says nothing.  so in the end all this wonderful stuff, while available, may not be attainable because the reader may not be doing the right things.  Apparently, according to Maloney, God has neither the power nor the love to crash through a person's inabilities or blindnesses.  Pity.	2002-07-14
US	52984061	R2VKVE1I55IPT5	0226410412	866191765	The Silence of Sodom: Homosexuality in Modern Catholicism	Books	5	6	11	N	N	A challenge to gay Catholics	Mark Jordon's book does an adequate job of discussing the systematic Catholic language that does now allow for disagreement or dissent.  Beyond that Jordan reveals how homerotic the liturgy and the beauracracy of the Church is.  Jordan then challenges to begin a new Catholic community.  Not a community such as Dignity, but one in which a new language and a new way of saying homosexual can become the foundation of a new teaching.<br />For some Gay Catholics, who wish to stay within the church, this may seem like whistling past the cemetery.  But it may be the only way one can move the Catholic Church, albeit probably through another milennium, into not only the recognition that its basis is homoerotic, but to embrace it as well.<br />One wonders, though, how this community begins.  Where are the writers, the liturgists, the theologians?  The only other answer for gay Catholics is to find another denomination or marginal quasi Christian group.<br />Jordon's idea may be quite exciting.	2002-07-11
US	52984061	RH4VNKFQU9MWQ	0854491848	7837176	Gaveston	Books	3	5	5	N	N	Interesting but too long	Hunt's novel concerns the life of Edward II of England and his love affair with Piers Gaveston.  Young Piers is from the low nobility of France and joins with Edward I is routing the French from Gascony.  He hopes to gain lands and glory that way.  The King send Piers to England to attend the adolescent heir to the throne, Edward.  Edward falls immediately in love and there begins a fiery relationship that covers 12 years of falls outs, reunions, condemnations and sadness.  Edward II himself does fare all that well in history, although that is not part of this novel.<br />  The book is a little too long. Once can sense what is coming halfway through and the last half is somewhat torturous.  Hunt keeps on writing about birds and peasants as though the reader is not aware of what is happening.  One has the temptation in the last 75 pages to skim.  For the most part, however, it is an interesting and entertaining historical novel.	2002-07-04
US	52984061	R3PH88IGACZ2B4	0743225309	713326504	Finding the Boyfriend Within: A Practical Guide for Tapping into your own Scource of Love, Happiness, and Respect	Books	4	2	3	N	N	A book of simple but insightful exercises	This self-help book for gay man is full of exercises in which one can get in touch with the person within oneself, the one who lingers deep in our unconscious and the one who attempts to speak words of wisdom.  Often gay men wonder why they do not have a boyfriend.  Gooch is writing that all men do and he is within them.  By find this friend people, gay or straight, can come to know themselves better, make better choices and rely on their own resources for deriving meaning from life.  Upon achieving this, anyone, gay or straight, can be a better lover, husband, wife or friend.  <br />  For five of the six chapters the exercises described by Gooch seemed simple enough as well as perhaps a bit simple.  In Chapter 6 Gooch write that love makes you feel loved.  He was not discussing romantic love, which can certainly be a part of this love.  He was speaking more directly to the kind of love that comes out of oneself.  He spoke of volunteering. He wrote of responding to \\"charitable\\" causes or acts, such as visiting a sick friend.  In these activities, Gooch advises the reader that one can experience a good feeling, but more important this type of loving nourishes one's own need to be loved.  Love makes you feel loved.  <br />  This insight is probably nothing new to people who practice various religions.  But it is an insight that needs constant renewing. I think it is the most valuable chapter of Gooch's book.  <br />  Gay people would do well by reading this book.  While its insights may seem simple and simplistic, following the exercises can actually help to re-focus on one's most important values.  A sort of examination of conscience without the guilt.	2002-07-01
US	52984061	R11DC9JHUJFSYD	1575668459	356579320	Can't Buy Me Love	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Funny, witty and true?	A young man complete with art studies degree finds his older lover dead and himself without a way of supporting himself.  Several months later his parents toss him out as well.  When he aplies for food stamps, he discovers he can take a microbusiness class instead of doing a job search.  What follows is an hysterical story of a gay prostitution business in Denver.  The story is also about growth.<br />  This is a fun book to read with some interesting observations, espcially on the sexual tastes and meanings to men and women.	2002-06-28
US	52984061	R3PBHFS847FJZD	1575666669	14799812	The Biograph Girl	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Interesting story	A woman 107 years old, slowly reveals that she is the original Biograph Girl to a writer who is looking to create a free lance article on aging.  Richard Murphy discovers the story of his life.  As others become involved in this project, inclujding his twin brother, Ben, who is looking for a cinematic project after a dearth of ten years from his only success.  Florence Bridgewood becomes Florence Lawrence.  Asa she changes, Flo begins to understand the process of her life.  Richard and Ben revisit their rivalry, their love lives, successes and defeats.  Ultimately they discover what Flo sees - everything is where it is supposed to be.<br />  Mann's style involves interspersing chapters of Flo's narrative of her life to Richard and Ben with chapters from the present.  This demonstrates many similarities of the early period of film making with the contemporary.  This style also helps create characters as foils from one period to another.<br />  Flo's life is intriguing, albeit sometimes contrived as the McKinley chapter appears.  But one is able to see through Mann's writing how Bridgewood becomes Lawrence who becomes Bridgewood again.  These metamorphoses help all main characters understand how change can be developmental or harmful.  Ultimately the reader can judge whether what could have been.	2002-06-28
US	52984061	R2UPV3W0T9PU8A	0060627581	500347194	Honest to Jesus: Jesus for a New Millennium	Books	5	7	10	N	N	Challenging study of the beginnings of Christianity	Robert Funk is the founder of the Jesus Seminar, a controversial group of scholars, who attempted to study scripture through historical and literary methods.  Funk and his collaborators have opened many doors to theology as they studied the beginnings of Christianity and the foundations upon which it has been built.<BR>  <BR>   The implications are intimidating.  It leaves obe with little to believe.<br />  Nevertheless the inadequacies of creedal Christianity have developed accretions that have taken the meaning away from the sage and social deviant Jesus.  The redactions to the Gospels have insulated and isolated hierarchical community from world views that actually would nourish faith within.<br />  Some conclusions: Jesus had a biological father, if not Joseph, then someone else.  A bastard Jesus has appeal and certainly fits into his vocation to call the outcast and outsiders to God's domain.  Jesus is not divine in the sense he was spawned by a deity, he is divine, like all of us are divine, in his discovery that in God's domain humans are all children of God - dydimoi of Jesus - his twins.<br />  Funk's twenty-one theses are challengees to Christians and their governing bodies to formulate and re-formulate the creeds that cut off discovery: Nicea, Chalcedon, etc.  When one compares the meaning of Jesus' parables, aphorisms and sayings top what the Church has become, one wonders whatever has the Church to do with God's doman.<br />  The challenges of the Jesus Seminar call people to look at their creeds, ethic.  Jesus asked people to trust in God, who he called father.  If people gave creedence to Jesus' call to become one with the outsiders, what would happen to privilege, to rank?  One suspects the Church would collapse.<br />  Yet the Church has experience and resources to incarnate Jesus' vision.  The spiritual traditions and theological reflections of the church call us to renew ourselves - and our vision - to make God's doman our own.  To the extent people can, people incarnate Jesus' vision.  And by trusting in the unconditional love of God, people may discover their grand mystery, which has been intimated by stories, visions and all create human expression: we are God's children.	2002-06-28
US	52984061	R2ZXMZZR92X8ZN	0786886463	711918396	A Density of Souls	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Great first novel	Christopher Rice has written a story about a group of souls whose conflicts both internal and external lead to tragedy as well as redemption.  There are numerous characters and lines to the plot that Rice maneuvers and integrates very well.  He manages to maintain suspense without teasing the reader.  One discovers  halfway through the book who someone is.  Rice chose to reveal this subtly rather than coyly keep the secret.  <br />Sometimes Rice's use of symbolism is a obvious.  The Hurricane at the end does provide a context for the resolution. One thing, however, that does not seem played out is the falling out of the three male friends.  There is an obvious reason, but going from their playing to the  rejection of Stephen is not quite clear.<br />One of the critical final scenes is somewhat blunted.  One expects something more catastrophic.<br />Yet this novel is a good read and keeps the reader's attention.  It's not an easy book to lay down.	2002-04-08
US	52984061	REXRE0TZBTFPB	0226551946	695338866	Homosexualities (Worlds of Desire: The Chicago Series on Sexuality, Gender, and Culture)	Books	4	12	15	N	N	Many details take us to three main ideas	The conclusion of this book synthesizes what the hundreds of details and citations have been about.  Murray sees homosexuality around the world throughout recorded history asa being age-stratified, gender stratified and egalitarian.  In addition, he wants to demonstrate that the social construction of these activities did not eliminate the desire of the pleasure of them, asa some researchers try to maintain.<br />The first two types of homosexualities predominate history.  Some of these stratifications become sacralized in the society's religious foundations.  The egalitarian type is more pertinent to the 20th century.<br />What Murray accomplishes in this book is a description of a wide variety of meaning in homosexual activity.  There are different constructions throughout history and even within a particular society on the meaning, purpose and acceptance of certain acts.<br />This is a well-researched book.  For the creative writer there is a mine of information from which to use the imagination.  What is so important to understand is that 20th and 21st century criticism often assumes the terminologies more recently developed.  Murray and others successfully demonstrate that one has to be more discrete in interpreting literature and art from ancient cultures.<br />What is fascinating is that throughout the world the same kind of age stratified or gender stratified acitivties have similar meanings. Each culture has particular meanings or levels of acceptance.  But somehow humans have found meaning in what today many would call perversions or sickness.  Who knows best?	2002-04-04
US	52984061	R1S47RLJM1F57D	0375506276	990748107	The Fourth Hand	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Not as intriguing as the others	The Fourth Hand is certainly a work by John Irving.  It has a main character who has peculiarities and who lives in an atmosphere of oddities.  Patrick Wallingford works for an all-news network, which devotes its time to stories that have a peculiar twist.  This kind of reporting is dehmunanizing and it dehumanizes Patrick.  Then he becomes a subject himselfwhile covering a story in India, he loses his hand to a lion.  This is typically Irving.  His characters all experience these types of events.  The loss of his hand leads to all sorts of attention, including the amorous advances of a Green Bay Packer widow, who wants to donate her husband's hand to him.<br />Wallingford has had an unsuccessful marriage and numerous relationships with women, mostly initiated by them.  He is used to this kind of attention, so he does not grow up emotionally.  But for the widow, he seems to experience some personal and professional growth.<br />Unfortunately, the plot simply is not that interesting.  It is hard to connect with this character.  He is neither admirable nor a complete jerk.  I suppose that is Irving's way of portraying Everyman.  At any rate the plot crawls along in a ho-hum pace and ends enigmatically, but hopefully.  This is not a work like Garp or Cider House Rules and disappoints.	2002-03-31
US	52984061	R23S3DLK44OXN6	0452262267	197057281	Hold Tight: A Novel	Books	3	7	7	N	N	Interesting possibilities	Hank is a sailor during WW II, who comes from Texas and has had no problem is accepting his homosexuality!!??  While trying out a brotherl in NY, he gets arrested.  Tied into this story is a movie projectionist and his daughter who are Nazi spies. A closeted queen who is a wannabe Nazi becomes involved with Hank who now is being turned into an American spy and whose boss is a Navy psychiatrist who intends to send him to a mental hospital after his tour of duty as a spy is over so he can be \\"happy\\" because homosexuals are sick and unhappy.  Add to this list of characters a Viennese jew who has become an American citizen who has conscious qualms about the way the Navy is handling Hank, Juke an African-American teen queen and an appearance by Monty Whooley, Benny Goodman and Gene Krupa and one has a novel that has some possibilities, but has to finish too fast with an ending that raises more questions than it answers.  <br />The characters are sometimes well drawn and interesting, but Bram does not develop them in a way that satisfies the story.  Obviously Hank and Juke are attracted to each other. but Hank's attitude towards African-Americans is not overcome until it is too late.  That is good writing, but why Juke's outcome happens is not.<br />This novel has some good passages, some interesting characters, but a plot that falls apart.	2002-03-31
US	52984061	RNVQDJ0VUB9XZ	0553575325	880178536	Simple Justice	Books	3	3	3	N	N	Not so mysterious	This is the first in a series of novels about a gay reporter Benjamin Justice, who once won and lost the Pulitzer prize.  In this story Justice is called back to work to help discover the murderer of a young gay man.  The accused is a young Hispanic, who is gay, too.  The plot works fine for half the book and then the reader figures out who the murderer is.  The climax is not very much fun, since it is all talking.  Interspersed with the plot Wilson integrates gay issues in a not-too-heavy handed manner.  His writing style is most readable.	2002-01-27
US	52984061	RLA2J21Q46YD7	1555835929	99972846	The Book of Lies: A Novel	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Interesting plot for its type	Ross Ohrenstadt is a graduate student going to UCLA to teach a summer course in gay literature and assist Professor Damon von Slyke is putting together research on the Purple Circle, a group of gay writers who fictionally influenced gay literature of the 70's and 80's.  On the way Ross finds pieces of literature which seems to have been written by someone else.  He hopes to discover the author and make a significant contribution to this study, thereby receiving his PHD and a position.  The title of the novel should warn readers about what to believe.  Picano develops some nice plot twists and keeps the pacing fast enough so the reader won't develop boredom concerning the topic.  However, the ending is not satisfactory.  First of all, one of the final scenes leaves the reader wondering what actually happened and secondly the denouement calls for more explanation.  While everyone sort of lives happily ever after, at least as happily as this group of characters could live, one may wonder why one read this book.	2002-01-01
US	52984061	RRH8HEOMAO2Q8	0060670991	474088646	Why Religion Matters: The Fate of the Human Spirit in an Age of Disbelief	Books	3	9	10	N	N	The question asked is unanswered	Huston Smith's book does offer any answers for those who would like to believe in God, but find it difficult.  He explores philosophical developments leading into the twentieth century as well as describes how science displaced religion in the nineteenth and continues to do so today.  Smith believes, however, that science has not answered the questions in its turns and it seems there is a trend back to religion.<br />The book emphasizes the philosophical and offers little help to people who are trying to make sense of the world around them.  They may still practice their religion, but they do so more out of hope that something will emerge from the mythology and irrelevant doctrines that will help them discover the meaning of the universe, their place in it and who God could possibly be.<br />If one is looking for a book that will inspire or comfort, this is ther wrong book.  Its heavy philosophizing and its centrality in academe keep it from being a source from which searching people can taste and move on.  In that sense it was disappointing.	2001-10-31
US	52984061	R5RRSJG8F33S1	0664255000	584555008	Spiritual Life: The Foundation for Preaching and Teaching	Books	4	3	5	N	N	Small but insightful	John Westerhoff's book on spirituality for preachers and teachers can be read very slowly, a section at a time, and reflected upon.  Westerhoof follows a classical approach to spirituality, but he is also able to relate the discipline whose ministry involves teaching and preaching.  This is a small volume, but is very insightful.  There might be a temptation to read it in one sitting, but that would impede the reader from savoring the insights obtained by reflection.  Each chapter is broken down into sections and each section offers material for reflection and prayer.	2001-10-16
US	52984061	R17Q3TFBWXVFLG	0884892638	316476012	Praying With Ignatius of Loyola (Companions for the Journey Series)	Books	4	28	28	N	N	Thoughtful, meditative reading	This book, which belong in the series &quot;Companions for the Journey,&quot; is structured around the life and thought of Ignatius Loyola.  Loyola, who began the Society of Jesus, also developed a way of praying called the Spiritual Exercises.  This volume utilizes the Ignatian style.  There are words from Ignatius as well as short vignettes from his life.  The authors offer questions for the reader's reflection.  While a compact work, it by no means is a fast read.  The whole series helps people join with a spiritual master.  <br />The book has fifteen &quot;chapters.&quot;  Each of these chapters takes one a theme developed by Ignatius.  One that was particularly evoking for me was the last one on the Trinity.  This is a very difficult concept for Christians to comprehend.  Ignatius apparently had a vision in which he saw how the Trinity related to his life.  The authors' questions were very enlightening.  Quoting Gerard Manlet Hopkins, the Jesuit poet of the 19th century, they write of the Trinity as the Utterer, the Uttered, and the Uttering.  They go on to develop this in the Lover, the Loved and the Loving.  <br />These kind of questions help the reader delve into the spirituality of Ignatius not simply to know what the Spiritual Exericses are about, but also to challenges oneself in interesting and meaningful ways in deepening one's relationship with God.	2001-09-03
US	52984061	R3ENAT4IPVOCTS	1560252294	323409035	Straight Parents, Gay Children: Inspiring Families to Live Honestly and with Greater Understanding	Books	3	33	35	N	N	Many good stories	Robert Bernstein's account of the development of P-Flag is emtional and inspiring. His book helps parents of gay children to learn about what gay means and how to accept their children. One flaw in this book is that all the examples he uses are men and women who have achieved high status as pretty much defined by society. Most of them are in &quot;marriages&quot;, long-term relationships. All of this makes them look &quot;just like&quot; straight people. This position is only one of many taken by gay people and gay organizations. I wondered as I read this book where I fit in. None of those gay people were like me and I did not share many of their views. So where does that put gay people like myself in Bernstein's perspective? The book seems to whitewash much of the gay world. Bernstein does not seem to be in touch with the youth programs. As a volunteer in one of those programs, I can tesitfy that none of the teens in our project reflect the kind of gay people he described. That criticism aside, Bernstein's book attempts to fight bigotry and help straight parents climb the mountain, as one parent put it to dealing with their own issues and reaching out to their children in love.	2001-08-26
US	52984061	R351L2TNU86BBZ	1890460001	968215527	Introduction To Brain-Compatible Learning	Books	4	19	21	N	N	A readable introduction	Eric Jensen has been teaching and writing in the area of brain compatible learning for some time now.  He has a series of books that go into great detail concerning the implications of brain reseach for educators.  This small volume is an appetizer of what is to come.  The book presents a quick review of brain research and the anatomy of the brain.  Then Jensen develops 12 principles to apply to educators.  Jensen refers this as the new paradigm of education.  Some of what he writes is not new, but finally can be proved scientifically.  The book is what it is a good introduction to the implications for educators of what brain research has been doing.  As Jensen notes, much of brain research is very esoteric and not practical for educators.  The book skims over ideas that are dealt with in greater detail in other books and Jensen's workshops.  However, this book serves to be a good starting place for educators who sense that something is missing in the methodologies that exist today.	2001-08-18
US	52984061	R3FKWZMB27P7YF	1582441030	599918197	A Jesuit Tale	Books	2	3	15	N	N	Self-absorbed	What passes for a novel is a panegyric to a religious order in the Roman Catholic Church that has had its highs and lows.  This novel attempts to follow three young men as they progress through the initial formation of the Society of Jesus and venture into the world of the Jesuit mission.  Two of the three drop out before they are ordained.  One remains to struggle with his faith, his sex life and his mission.  <br />The characters take themselves very seriously which is common among young adults.  They believe that their actions have an importance for the entire cosmos.  This belief is fundamental to their formation as Jesuits.  The Jesuits were founded, among other things, to defend the Pope against the Protestants.  That particular mission does not receive much attention in this novel.<br />Fr. Tom finds himself in Guatemala where he experiences a conversion to devote his university teaching of Economics to demonstrate the injustice of the country's economic system.  Naturally those in power are offended by this teaching.  Where much of this part of the novel finds relevance in current events, the ending is particularly contrived.  One wonders how the character of the priest sent by the Father General to Guatemala plays out.  And who is Fr. Beltrane, who is quoted throughout the book?  Is he some sort of Teilhard?  <br />None of the three characters comes across convincingly.  All three go through life conflicted about everything.  At the enbd of the novel they are dispensed with peremptorially.<br />It was not a satisfying novel.	2001-06-05
US	52984061	R3AIEQU2O6VWPT	0824518918	431679828	Is Jesus God?: Finding Our Faith	Books	4	45	52	N	N	Reconciling religion with reality	Michael Morwood spent 29 years of his life as a Roman Catholic priest in Australia.  When he wrote &quot;Tomorrow's Church,&quot; he got the attention of the Vatican.  Eventually he chose to leave the priesthood.  The present book responds to the questions that arose from the former.  What Morwood believes is that religion comes from a worldview that is based on the realities one perceives.  When humans learn more about those realities, they find their religion unable to explain the divine story.  Morwood suggests that Christian religions, notably Roman Catholic, are based on philosophical and linguistic perceptions that no longer are relevant.  For instance, he rejects the notion of Original Sin.  He writes that the Adam and Eve story has been shown to be a myth borrowed from other cultures.  Our scientific studies have shown that life evolved.  Original Sin theory is a way of explaing evil in the world.  But it poses some serious problems as the kind of God who could punish all people is not the same God of later philosophers and theolgians, indeed the God the Church proclaims.<br />Morwood refers to a New Story, meaning the way humans see the world today.  Anthropology, arhceology, psychology and other sciences have revealed knowledge long accepted.  Yet the language of religion has not adapted, causing many to perceive that Christianity is irrelevant.  Morwood believes that religious leaders need to explore language and rituals that speak of this New Story by reconciling the Old with it.  <br />An example of this is to try to explore how Jesus is God.  He refers to the Trinity teaching as being irrelevant today.  Yet many people, evne though they do not subscribe to this teaching, believe that Jesus was something special and was God in a way we are not.  The divinity of Christ needs further exploration.  This means looking at things like resurrection and what it means.  Does Jesus go somewhere else?  If God is everywhere, how do we consider a heaven where God lives?<br />These and other questions Morwood explores with the hope that others will also try to explore through prayer, reading and dialogue.<br />This reviewer did not agree with the idea of a &quot;New Story.&quot;  There are realities known today not known hundreds of years ago.  This revieweer believes the challenge is to relive the old story in this current reality.  Christians shoudl explore language and rituals that reflect current realities, but integrate them into the old story.  This is nothing new really.  In Roman Catholicism to some extant new realities have always been added, even though the old story remained.	2001-05-28
US	52984061	R1EBC0SLEVOS5R	0812550293	504533718	The Path of Daggers (The Wheel of Time, Book 8)	Books	3	1	3	N	N	The Wheel of Time trudges on	The Wheel of Time series trudges endlessly on.  Surely it will come to an end.  At the beginning the spankings were cute, but grown men and women going through this is not cute anymore.  Also the pat phrases about playing with dresses and glares and stares have been common in this series.  Because of the length of the series some of the groups of friends and enemies have been forgotten and now are being re-introduced.  The daimane are back in this book, but the reader may not remember what they are because they appeared much earlier.  The plot is similar to the other books.  The Ta-veran Rand al Thor, Matt Cauthan and Perrin are doing something to bring Rand to the cosmic fight.  This book does not see Matt, which detracts from it.  Rand has been suffering from his mystical powers - again.  Won't Mr. Jordon spare him further grief?  The Ninth Book has been written but is not yet in paperback.  Does anybody know how many books there will be?	2001-05-13
US	52984061	RUFWYNE33RAB	0151003688	437234577	When Jesus Became God: The Epic Fight over Christ's Divinity in the Last Days of Rome	Books	4	16	22	N	N	Interesting perspective of a complicated time in church hist	Richard Rubenstein delves into the complicated Arian heresy of the 4th century and writes a readable account of the times and personalities that were part of Roman and church history.  Rubenstein does not always quote from letters or council documents at times when the quotation seems critical, but he summarizes well.  One criticism I would have is that he develops ten chapters very well, but the last seems to be hurried, like the climax in a novel that the author is rushing to after making painstaking plot developments.  Overall I believe that Rubenstein does a good job explaining the context of Roman history in which Constantine was trying to unify the empire through a unifying religion.  To today's perspective it may seem that the riots which occurred over phrases, even a single word, that makes such a fine distinction, were extreme.  <br />For those who read this book to find out how Jesus became God, they will discover it had to do the Nicene Council.  This does not answer how Jesus actually did become God.  As a historian, Runbenstein does not deal with this from faith.  This faith is what caused the riots, the murders, the excommunications and eventually the split between not only the eastern and western Roman empires, but also between the eastern and western churches.  One wonders how this is a work of God - from the faith perspective.  <br />Reading this book can help to explain how today's broad spectrum of religious faiths can  both unify and divide the world.  Still Constantine, Constantius and others probably could name make any other decisions than they did.  The complexity of conscience and political realities as well as raw survival is very hard to determine.  People so the best they can.	2001-04-22
US	52984061	RNF3K0O3SOVB3	0805061835	523514507	Real Boys: Rescuing Our Sons from the Myths of Boyhood	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Good ideas, but sometimes repetitive	As a person who has been a teacher and an administrator in high and elementary schools, I value much of what William Pollack has written in this book.  I did find he repeated himself frequently, especially in the second half of the book.  A criticism of the book also is it seems to focus on families who have enough money to afford insurance for counseling.  While I believe that many of the principals Pollack discussed are relevant to boys of American socio-economic classes, I wonder if he had ever focused on other groups to test his ideas.<br />His chapter on schools is quite good, especially since he presents ideas on what to do.	2001-03-06
US	52984061	R1Q5CAK6W8SEV3	0739201352	975888905	Millennium Pope : A Novel of Spiritual Journey	Books	2	0	0	N	N	Grand Opera, but little book	This novel follows the short papacy of Pope Robert who attempts to change the Cathoic Church from eliminating epithets such as &quot;Your Holiness&quot; to ordaining women to the priesthood.  As a card carrying liberal Catholic I found this novel too short to encompass all the issues Federick Luhmann attempts.  The first half of the book is interesting as it concerns the election of the new pope.  Then as Pope Robert goes through what the novel bills itself as a &quot;spiritual journey,&quot; he engages all the issues on the liberal agenda, one wonders whether this small book can accomplish all this.  And the answer to that is that the novel cannot realistically contain all of these issues without development.  The pope's opponents are develop too superficially and their positions given too little credence.  If the novel is supposed to create discussion, it will have little positive effect.  As a proponent of the issues Pope Robert takes, I would have liked to have read much better treatment of these issues from different perspectives rather than engaging in rather fantastic displays of drama.	2001-03-02
US	52984061	RU1LJDM50C5K1	0824518411	595607035	Religion in Exile: A Spiritual Homecoming	Books	4	19	21	N	N	Spirituality without religion	Diarmuid O'Murchu is a counselor and former (I believe) religious priest who explores the idea of a spirituality without religion.  He speaks of conemporary experience as being in exile from the earth and from the presence of God that the earth manifests.  Christianity, Judaism and Islam have been patriarchcal religions which have divided and conquered the world.  They rely heavily on authority to promote their revelation.  What is most appreciative about this work from one Roman Catholic's perspective is that a fellow Catholic, who has been imbued with the theology and spirituality of that religion has discovered what other Catholics have.  Namely that religion can take a person only so far in the discovery of God.  There is a truth that exists beyond all religion.  O'Murchu explores the Mother Earth Goddess spirituality pre-existent of the modern religions as well as aspects of it in those religions.  He explores current ecological and political movements for a sense of &quot;homecoming&quot; as he calles it.  This is a short book that is tantalizing in some aspects.  His bibliography points to longer, more focused works that have been part of his research.  The view that O'Mucho presents does not mean one must leave one's religion.  It is simply a way of seeing in anew.	2001-01-23
US	52984061	R1OW5ORRBV8V22	0813331641	428371077	Same Sex, Different Cultures: Exploring Gay And Lesbian Lives	Books	4	5	7	N	N	Challenging and insightful	Gilbert Herdt is an anthropologist who has studied sexual lifeways in a number of cultures.  In this book he explores how homosexual lifeways in different cultures are constructed.  Outside of western civilization the idea of a homosexual orientation does not appear in the consciousness of these cultures.  Yet there are activities that look to the western mindas being blatantly  homosexual.  The difference as Herdt tries to point out is that they constitute an integral part of a society.  These lifeways are present for a time or during part of a male's life and have a specific social purpose.  <br />Briefly he reviews how the western world develop a sense of an orientation and how western societies have reacted to it.  Herdt concludes that one ought not to adapt the constructs of another world, nor should one impose western ideaas in another part of the world.  He claims one should acknowledge them with a sense of wonder.  <br />Herdt wants to open debate about homosexual orientation and its place in western society.  He observes that a recent study disputes that 10% of men are gay.  That study shows it is closer to 2.6%.  He shows that surveys that focus on the 12 largest cities in the United States show a much larger percentage of men preferring other men as sexual partners.  He points this out because he has been maintaining throughout the book that answers are not simplistic.  And that differences need to be explored.<br />While one might wish for a more comprehensive study of the ideas presented in this volume, Heerdt does indeed open the debate.	2001-01-02
US	52984061	R365C2INY9BHOL	0060930535	951868170	The Poisonwood Bible (Oprah's Book Club)	Books	4	2	4	N	N	A rich tale	Barbara Kingsolver's book uses the literary style of having several characters tell the story from each perspective.  That is something the reader needs to know at the outset.  It was a maddening experience for a hundred pages or so.  Then the book fell into a rhythm.  This story of the Congo in the 50's and 60's concerns a preacher and his family.  Nathan Price uses his minister to cover up guilt from a World War II experience and his wife and four daughters pay the price.  The novel is full of African lore, language and ecology.  The story itself comes to a climax a little over halfway through.  The denouement was long and tedious.	2000-10-30
US	52984061	R1DXHL5P3Z8D36	068419354X	150810861	SAINT PETER: A BIOGRAPHY	Books	3	10	11	N	N	a Modest Proposal	Michael Grant's book which attempts to uncover historical details about St. Peter makes modest claims about the touted head of the Christian church.  Grant examines the Gospel view of Peter, which is not very flattering.  He writes that this view had to do with the Gentile influence.  Nevertheless Grant maintains that Peter did lead the early Christians in Jerusalem, although this leadership was short-lived due to what Grant bellieve to be Peter's role as mediator between rival factions.  Grant can find little evidence that Peter lived and died in Rome, but he avers that this may be very likely since the tradition concerning it so strong.<br />While not a long book, St. Peter:  A Biography makes a modest proposal that the tradition concerning this Apostle may baasically be historically true.	2000-09-20
US	52984061	R2VEHBD6UCZFLG	0965727246	91405954	Garden's Corner: A Novel	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Good story potential, but flawed	Garden's Corner concerns the psychological and physical journey of Speedy Copeland to recover from a gun shot wound and recover the purpose of his  life.  The novel has much of what good novels are about:  an archtypical  journey of youth to manhood, interesting characters, a likeable hero, some  passages that are very powerful.  But Reed misses the target.  Speedy's  clmactic speech is banal, very typical.  While many people may not rise to  these kind of occasions in their lives, in a novel our hero must.  Speedy  needs to say something more than what can appear to be an adolescent whine.  <br />Reed diverges in his story with other stories, whose purpose is to  relate to that part of the story.  He begins one such by saying how Miss  Pearl, Speedy's grandmother, told him a prayer that he found meaningful.   For several pages Speedy recounts his journey into religion to demonstrate  that he is not religious, but that this prayer was meaningful to him  anyway.  The reader starts feeling:  get to the point, what is the prayer.   It is one we all have heard before.  Not that a young person person cannot  find this significant he hears it for the first time, but the build-up is  less than the punch.<br />There is a powerful short story in the middle of the  novel about two black boys playing a one-on-one for the pleasure of a white  coach.  The reader may suspect that Mr. Reed has written this before and  has pasted in his story.  But the presence of this episode is relevant,  helping to fill out the character and setting us up for the journey.   <br />The reason I believe the novel is flawed is the divergences that take  place that are not necessary.  At some point in time while reading the  story, the reader will discover the truth that is the ending before one  gets there.  That is not fatal.  However, with that in mind, Speedy ought  to have a speech or narrative that has some punch.  That was a big  disappointment.	2000-08-17
US	52984061	R3CHE71OU2OY1F	0874779693	311453509	A Fine Young Man: What Parents, Mentors, and Educators Can Do to Shape Adolescent Boys into Exceptional Men	Books	5	32	34	N	N	A practical book substantiated through scientific research	One of the best features of this book is the fact that Michael Gurian. having lived in other cultures, researches his material through the  scientific process aas well as by investigating other cultures in how they  relate to boys.  In so doing Gurian discovers some common elements and some  differences.  Some of these differences are surprising and offer our own  culture something to thnink about.  It is hard to focus on what is good  about this book because one would have to summarize all its chapters.   Perhaps a strong element of &quot;A Fine Young Man&quot; is the structure  of those chapters.  Guriam presents the thesis of the chapter.  He presents  cross-cultural references, scientific reseach and personal histories.  He  then offers some practical &quot;how-to's&quot;.  For those of us who work  with boys, especially adolescents, this practical aspect is quite  important.  While Gurian's style makes this &quot;easy&quot; reading, one  finds oneself pausing numerous times and talking to oneself about what one  has just read.  Gurian inspires the reader to bring &quot;his&quot; own  life to the process.  I thought this book would be a releif from the  spiritual and theological reading I have been doing.  Yet I found myself  reflecting frequently on Gurian's insights, the implications of the  research he discovered and the stories he presents.  I found myself  journaling about these times.<br />This book has solid practical value, but it  also has a deep spiritual challenge to those of us to want to help our  young men grow into healthy and faithful adults.	2000-08-17
US	52984061	R87YXWC1E3N1F	002521490X	771930587	The SILENCE OF GOD	Books	3	2	8	N	N	Wordy but makes contribution	At the beginning of these four meditations author James Carse discusses  the paradox of using words that cannot describe what he is about to reflect  upon.  Carse makes a number of assertions that are material for reflection.   He calls prayer begging, begging for life itself.  He goes on to explain  how our need to be listened to us based on our need to live.  <br />At times,  though, his meditations are wordy and sound more like philosophical  discourse.  He makes use of examples and stories which enflesh his points.   Kierkegarrd's story of the king and the peasant girl, the couple who  through a medium believe they have contacted their son are among  several.<br />One can read this small book carefully and use it for  meditation, but one has to read slowly.  the structure of the paragraphing  make it difficult to be meditative.	2000-08-07
US	52984061	R1QMUIXEW8MLBO	0824518039	82363465	The Honor of My Brothers: A Brief History of the Relationship Between the Pope and the Bishops (Ut Unim Sint)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Short, but concise	William Henn's short, but concise book on the history of the relationship between the pope and the bishops appears to be thorough and balanced. The  book is a response to Pope John Paul II's encyclical &quot;Ut unum  sint,&quot; which called for a discussion of papal supremacy and  infallibility.  This small volume explores the various church councils that  dealt with these issues as well as issues in which the church in Rome was  involved.  Henn is careful to place conciliar documents in the context of  their times.  He traces the various emphases of this relationship in such a  way that the reader can see the interconnectedness of these positions from  one part of the church's history to another.  Henn is careful to translate  the appropriate Latin phrases for the reader.  He also in some cases  demonstrates how some Latin words can be nuanced and how that can affect  the understanding of the writer's position.  <br />The best thing that can be  said of this book is that Henn is able to communicate to the reader how the  present understandings of the papal office have developed.  One can see it  was not always thus.  And even the present position may not always be thus.   The practice of this office has been influenced by historical events as  well as pastoral care.  And for the most part, this office is and has been  what the faithful allow it to be.	2000-08-04
US	52984061	R3K9AAFAOV8MXD	0809136600	349316301	Christian Spirituality: Themes from the Tradition	Books	4	14	14	N	N	A basic book	While Christian Spirituality is a fairly basic book about the spectrum of the spiritual life,its main focus is spirituality developed within the Roman Catholic tradition.  Cunningham brings his description forward to the  21st century keeping the roots connected to the future.  I particularly  liked his chapter on Friendship and how it relates to one's spiritual  growth.  That is one of the more unique contributions this book makes.  Cunningham's foundational approach is a good start for someone initially  exploring this topic.  He presents every chapter in a chronological manner,  describing first the scriptural basis of this aspect and then bringing it  forward through the history of Christian history.  Obviously this is not  done in depth, but provides a reader with many footnotes, bibliography and  some exercises to help the reader look for his/her own nuance.<br />I have  read and heard many of the things Cunningham wrote, but I found his  presentation be to be a concise and terse one.  I enjoyed that.  It is the  kind of book one can go back to find something quickly for further  exploration.	2000-07-31
US	52984061	R11CC1ZYJRB2LE	0670869325	874362925	James, Brother of Jesus: The Key to Unlocking the Secrets of Early Christianity and the Dead Sea Scrolls	Books	5	51	59	N	N	Creates  a different perspective from which to read history	The reader is not a scholar, but enjoys reading scholarship concerning early Christianity.  Eisenman's book produces so much detail it is hard to keep it all in mind.  Yet after 400 pages this reader, through meticulous  repetition on the part of the author, was able to make sense of what the  author was trying to say.  And that is:  that James is the blood brother of  Jesus; James was the one who succeeded Jesus; and very importantly, if  James Messianic version of what would become Christianity had succeeded,  there probably would have been no Christianity because it would have died  in the ruins of Jerusalem.<br />Eisenman's work challenges current mythologies  of Jesus in the Gospels as well as the Pretine succession.  But a faithful  Christian need not fear his conclusions, because one can see how important  tradition is.  Tradition interprets events and scripture.  <br />The rewrites,  overwrites and omissions in the New Testament are a teastment themselves of  how what would become the prevailing understanding would see the impact of  Jesus' life, death and resurrection.  Eisenman at the beginning of the  study warns the reader to beware of what comes from the predominant view of  any particular time.  <br />Eisenman being a scholar does not always write  things directly because he is working with material that has shifting  meaning.  Several languages are involved and studies from the first several  centuries did not understand Hebrew and Aramaic languages.  Yet there were  times when the reader would have wished for a statement about where he was  going.  <br />There is to be volume II, hopefully shorter.    But this reader  is looking forward to seeing it.	2000-07-30
US	52984061	R1GJIH26IMSFX2	0884892409	346855274	Praying with John Baptist de La Salle (Companions for the Journey Series)	Books	5	12	12	N	N	Practical and deeply spiritual	John Baptist dela Salle founded the order known popularly as the Christian  Brothers.  He believed God had called him to teach poor boys in France.   The hardships he endured, the criticism and the lack of support from the  members of his own community were the means through which he was able to  find his faith.  Carl Koch briefly describe this life and then writes  fifteen meditations based on la Salle's writings and integrates some  scripture into these.  Koch provides exercises during these meditations to  help the reader personalize them.  One is inspired by the life and thought  of this man.  Koch's presentation has the pleasant aspect of a retreat, one  that a person could take at home.  Each meditation is worth much thought  and time.  The book should be read carefully and slowly. Each section of  each meditation provides for prayer and reflection.  This book is a good  spiritual resources for teachers because the methodologies la Salle  espoused are quite contemporary.  For Christians teaching in public  schools, these meditations provide a way of viewing their work as ministry.   For teachers in Christian schools la Salle challenges a deeper insight  into the vocation.  This is a good companion to methodologies.	2000-07-27
US	52984061	R1G3DMIBVE3PNZ	0684853000	893214399	Beach Boy: A Novel	Books	2	12	13	N	N	Listless and without direction	Beach Boy is a book about a young boy who likes to eat in other people's  houses and mind other people's business.  He is a student of tennis, who  does not work to use his potential.  Throughout this novel Ardashir Vakil  introduces us to interesting characters, but the plot goes no place.  It  begins and it ends and the reader wonders, where have I been?  This is  Vakil's first published novel and he shows a talent for describing  characters.  But he does not seem to have a direction other than to write a  group of vignettes.  So what does happen to Cyrus?	2000-07-09
US	52984061	R22I7L7OZ9P6AZ	015600500X	590444972	Funny Boy (Harvest Book)	Books	3	3	11	N	N	Episodic and choppy	Advertised as a book abour growing up gay in South Asia, Funny Boy actually says very little about being gay.  There are hints in the early chapters as family members use the term &quot;funny.&quot;  Most of the book centers around family members, mainly the women, who experience the  burdens of living in a society that does not yet respect a woman's  development.  Sri Lanka is also a society in which the Sinhalese majority  terrifies the Tamil minority.  It is against that background this story is  played.<br />But the novel is not so much a development of plot as it is  episodes or short stories about family members.  Unfortunately each of  these epidoes ends in sadness or tragedy, the ultimate ending being that of  the displacement of the family to Canada after a brutal riot has destroyed  the family's homes and killed the grandparents.<br />Selvadurai's portray of  Arjie's awareness of being gay is sensitive and torturous.  But it seems  quite western.  One wonders of that is the impact of British culture on  this society.  <br />It was a good book to read, but the episodic nature of it  got boring.	2000-04-25
US	52984061	R2RJMUSEZ1BW23	0867160071	55417116	Six Ways to Pray from Six Great Saints	Books	5	27	27	N	N	Short, but profound	Gloria Hutchinson has written a book that capsulizes the ways in which six saints have prayer.  She features Francis of Assisi, Clare of Assisi, Ignatius of Loyola, Therese of Lisieux, Teresa of Avila and John of the Cross.  She writes a brief biography of each and then describes their  approach to prayer.  Each section has questions for the reader to use as a  meditation.  The thoughtful reader might take quite a while getting through  this little book.  In fact, Hutchinson is able to make the styles of each  of these saints very appealing and inviting, leaving the reader wanting to  know more.  This a good book for people who are starting to explore ways to  pray.  it is a book for those who have been doing this for a while and  would like a short pick me up.	2000-01-09
US	52984061	R3SHB3VJNFD6X9	0345395433	781977827	Good Enough Catholic	Books	5	19	28	N	N	Fundamental Catholic Theology	Paul Wilkes' &quot;The Good Enough Catholic&quot; is like taking the fundamental theology course in the seminary.  The difference here is that Wilkes has a popular writing style that makes the theology accessible to  many people.  The main point Wilkes makes is that many Catholics,who want  to be loyal to their church, but also find some practices and teachings  troubling, are trying to find some ways to be &quot;good enough,&quot; even  though they may not understand or are able to be &quot;perfect&quot; in  their practice.  The idea of being &quot;good enough&quot; is that  sometimes many people have to settle for something that seems less than the  ideal of what one should be as a Catholic.  <br />Wilkes treats the  fundamental topic in Catholic theology, scriptures, church, sacraments,  marriage, priesthood, the papacy, etc. by attempting to find ground  somewhere between the extreme positions of absolute loyalty and an attitude  of skepticism.  He finds much in the Catholic tradition that speaks well of  being Catholic.  He refers to the moral teachings of the church as the most  comprehensive and systemitized than any other religion.  He also  demonstrates that throughout the church's history there have been different  emphases and nuances in how and what the church has taught.  <br />Wilkes'  book is positive and honest.  He includes quotations from lay people and  clergy throughout using opinions that spread the gamut of Catholic thought.   He summarizes very clearly some complicated history.  He presents some  failures of the church along side great successes, showing how the  institution of the church can be guided by the Holy Spirit as well as be  mislead by the popular culture of the time.  <br />I believe this book to be  balanced in its approach. It can be applied easily to RCIA programs as well  as other adult education in the church.	1999-12-09
US	52984061	R3LMPS49K3BHE8	0060615761	898840252	The Gospel of the Beloved Disciple	Books	3	5	21	N	N	A little unctious	It is maddening when so-called wise &quot;men&quot; turn questions constantly back to the questioner, especially when the questioner is sincere.  This book, which purports to be a &quot;gospel&quot; shows a  Jesus who never answers a question or replies with a story that says  little.  If one of the major relgions of the world were based on the kind  of Jesus represented in this book, people of this faith would be inept.   Surely, there are some interesting dialogues in this gospel.  The  conversation between Pilate and Jesus has an interesting bent.  But overall  one would wonder why anyone would follow this man.  His words are  uninspiring and he seems not really to care about anyone.  Maybe I missed  the point.	1999-08-23
US	52984061	R2W2BK4ZOJN0JI	051512558X	453276093	The Overseer	Books	4	2	4	N	N	Exciting story, but could be shorter	Jonathan Rabb's first book reflects his life as a scholar inthat one of the principal characters is a scholar studying a fourhundred year document, On Supremacy by one Eisenreich.  This document takes Machiavelli much further along.  Eisenreich writes about a plan for the Catholic Church to take over the world.  Now in the late twentieth century a cabal in America is trying to follow Eisenreich's plan with a schedule of their own.<br />Rabb writes from a liberal point of view.  His cabal are quite conservative, albeit without much moral foundation.  His cabal quite cynically use conservative slogans to try to convinve the masses that society is in chaos.  A subtle point is made when Jonas Tieg does one of his television programs from a charter school.  Education for these people means producing disciples who will follow orders.  <br />The plot is full of twists and surprises; sometimes one gets tired of these surprises and simply wants the story to find a conclusion.  That is probably the one major weakness of this first novel.  <br />But it was a fascinating read for this reader, who had to finish it in a couple of days.  When a section would end and yet one would want to continue with the next.  Rabb is a good writer.	1999-08-16
US	52984061	R3VM211022KLTC	0785270957	893324573	C. S. Lewis on Faith	Books	4	5	18	N	N	Pithy and thought-provoking	C. S. Lewis was a convert to Roman Catholicism after having been something of an agnostic.  This compilation of statements about faith in his writings was compiled by Leslie Walmsley.  Lewis remarks are pithy, sometimes  cryptic, sometimes thought-provoking.  It is difficult to use this book for  meditation because Lewis is a high intellect.  Frequently his statements  are devoid od emotion.  For those of the Thomistic spiritual persuasion,  this would be a good read.  I prefer something that involves feeling.  Yet   I found material to read over again. Those who want some short statements  about topics like hell, love, christian and virtues will find some  interesting quotes to throw into a sermon - or cocktail party conversation.	1999-08-16
US	52984061	R3PFMMZ7Z7FUCZ	0060904879	544304099	The Divine Milieu (Perennial Library)	Books	3	52	64	N	N	Forward-looking in its time	Years ago I read this book because I believed the author was ahead of his time.  I did not understand much of it due to Teilhard's pencity to create his own language.  Having read this book recently, I find myself  understanding it more, but having the feeling that it is irrelevant.   Teilhard's work in developing his version of Incarnational theology was  considered very dangerous by the Catholic church and he was not able to  publish during his lifetime.  After his death private sources began to  publish his works. &quot;The Divine Milieu&quot; seems quite tame today.   In fact it may go over people's head because his language is difficult to  understand.  He sees Christ as the beginning and the end point of creation.   Nothing is profane; everything is sacred because Christ is transparent  throughout creation.  The work of humans might seem quite insignificant,  but human endeavors are epiphanies of the reality of God's presence.   Teilhard uses traditional Catholic virtues and spirituality to demonstrate  his views.  It is difficult to see how the church in the earlier part of  this century found this dangerous stuff.  But Teilhard was breaking with  recent tradition in inviting humans to join Christ through creation and  their work.  Before this Christians were invited to do good works as part  of the salvation and sanctification.  But the world was suspect.  &quot;The  Church in the Modern World&quot; a document from Vatican II, dispelled that  notion and could be seen as a more contempoary take-off on Teilhard's  present work.	1999-08-12
US	52984061	R3QPFPM0Z3AWMH	0151001812	297422625	The Fencing Master	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Fast read	The Fencing Master is an interesting and feast read book.  The dull life of Don Jaime Asterloa is charged when Adela de Otera enters and requests that he teach her his special thrust.  Don Jaime falls in love with his  pupil only to see her disappear from his life.  He eventually discovers why  she needed his assistance.  The conclusion of the novel, placed in the  context of the decline of the Spanish monarchy, is fast-paced and  intriguing.  For those who do not understand the language of fencing,  aspects of this book are hard to follow.	1999-08-03
US	52984061	R2T4GPR0DKFMMN	038547427X	224828411	God in All Things: The Spiritual Excercises of Anthony De Mello	Books	4	8	8	N	N	A little book with much to share	John Callanan develops the spiritual exercises of Ignatius Loyola using the methodology develop by Jesuit Anthony de Mello.  This book contains practices for meditation as well as processes and material to reflect upon.   Ignatian spirituality is an excellent method for those with a great  imagination.  And De Mello's use of this process integrates psychology and  some eastern meditation exercises in an eclectic spirituality.  The title  of the book suggests that these exercises are designed to assist people to  become aware of the spirit of the divine in the experiences that we have  each day.  De Mello helped people to re-awaken within themslves new  perceptions and shake off the dispositions that were part of their field of  formation.  De Mello helps people become aware of what they believe and not  be afraid of entering into this.  This comes at a time when leadership in  the Catholic Church has become very repressive with &quot;internal  assent&quot; now the watch word from Rome.  De Mello methods are subversive  to the Congrregation of Christian Doctrine.  But unity with God does not  neep permission from Rome.  These are the ideas, small and simple, that  will bring the Church into the kingdom of God.	1999-08-02
US	52984061	R2E3YYYA5YWCNO	0060616598	838932953	The Birth of Christianity: Discovering What Happened In the Years Immediately After the Execution Of Jesus	Books	4	11	12	N	N	Lots of scholarship; what was it about?	Crossan's book is full of scholarship, his own and that of other scholars in various fields.  I learned a great deal about a the Commonl Meal Tradition, the Essenes, the Didache and the the Cross Gospel.  But I am not  sure I know what the book's subtitle says it was supposed to be about:  what happened between the death of Jesus and the writing of the  Gospels.<br />Crossan is careful and thorough in his research.  But I was  always looking for some chronological summary of what actually did happen.<br />I believe that the strands he explains in quite detail are supposed to  come together.  I think a re-reading of the book may do that.  I also  believe that there are presentations made, especially as regards the Jewish  concern for justice, the purpose of the Lament, the life of the Essene  community and the life of the communities of the Didache, that presents a  picture of different elements of first century Christian life.  But what I  think is missing is a simple portrait tying all this together.	1999-07-30
US	52984061	RPHEMQ59EP92V	0671537466	339013638	Streets of Laredo	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Engaging, but too long	Streets of Laredo is an interesting and engaging book, but too long.  McMurtry repeats himself such as the times when Joey Garza keeps thinking that he is going to his mother's house to ahve his wounds cleaned.  Other  characters' thoughts are also repeated unnecessarily.  This makes a long  story even longer.<br />Yet the characters of this novel are interesting. Joey  Garza's hatred of Maria, his mother, is left unfinished.  The reader knows  his attiude is inocrrect, but Joey never realizes it.  Also how he became  bad is left to the reader's imagination.<br />Minor characters appear in this  book, who require circumstances.  Doobie Plunkert appears as a rash,  immature girl.  Yet she will have some relationship to the story toward the  end as her husband Deputy Plunkert roams Texas with Woodrow Call and his  posse.  The story of this couple and that of the accountant Brookshire and  his wife Katie seem to serve as reminders that people live and die and are  promptly forgotten.  Perhaps also this is McMurtry's way of showing how  relentless the brutality was in the developing west.<br />The impact of all  these deaths was depressing.<br />Despite some of these problems Streets of  Laredo continued where Lonesome Dove left off.  I wish McMurtry had not  killed all those people in the former book.  It would have been nice to  have seen Newt again.	1999-07-12
US	52984061	R72Q16WHUME0U	0814623824	738593070	Butler's Lives of the Saints: June	Books	5	22	22	N	N	Thorough and broad	The June edition of the Butler series has two very lengthy sections on the lives of St. Peter and St. Paul.  The editor did an excellent job of summarizing the sources.  This series has been quite thorough and broad and  emphasizes the accuracy of the sources.  Kathleen Jones introduction of  this volume gives on overview of the well-known and lesser known saints of  this month.  I appreciate the stress she places on what is conjecture and  what can be proved, almost.  This edition does not delve in cultic  devotion, but presents each saint as accurately as possible.	1999-07-01
US	52984061	RP3FHSK6DCADF	0670847321	181114430	A Year of Rhymes	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Evocative	Burt is 6th grader waking up to his sexuality at the same time his older brother is dying from leukemia.  His brother works for their attorney father by serving subpoenas on people.  Burt sometimes accompanies him.   Bob falls in love with Marion Hirsch a kind of free spirit who cannot  return his love.  The novel follows a year using the title of a book of  poems Burt receives as its theme.  Aunt Ida reads the poems to Burt eveery  day.  Slowly Burt begins to put the memories together.  When he realizes  his brother is dying, he tries to hold on to sensations, descriptions,  feelings.  The novel ends suddenly.  It is almost as if someone did not  include a few more pages.  This suddenness leaves the reader with a sense  of unfinished business.  This contrasts with the careful way Bernard Cooper  had been approaching this final scene. Yet the novel is full of memories of  the people and friends Burt lives with and the seemingly mundane events of  their lives.	1999-06-16
US	52984061	R1579UTQVPU7V9	0312963815	151456505	Birds of Prey (Courtney Family Adventures)	Books	4	0	1	N	N	High adventure	Wilbur Smith is a great storyteller. In Birds of Prey he tells the story of young Hal Courtney who is learning the craft of sailing from his stern father.  His father's hard discipline will turn out well for the lad as he  faces treachery, uncharted lands and seas, and a confrontation of cultures.   The setting of this novel is around southern Africa.  Smith's research  into sailing seems quite throrough as well as his attention to the areas  around the Cape of Good Hope in the 17th century.  Smith does give his plot  away at the beginning, but that does not prohibit the reader from enjoying  the playing out of the plot - and sometimes a few surprises as well.  This  is good reading.	1999-05-17
US	52984061	R4CJFKL88XSPK	0385482639	510051158	A Portrait of Jesus	Books	3	11	14	N	N	Simplicity	Joseph Girzone has written in this book his Christology.  He follows the classical pattern of Christological works, but he expressed the simplcity of Jesus' message, as he does in his novels of Joshua.  This simplcity can  be very charming and inspiring.  And at times it can be irrelevant.<br />In  this book he sometimes repeats themes in separate chapters.  For example,  he writes about priestly celibacy.  He believes that it is a discipline  that should be changed.  He writes early in the book about this and then  repeats himself almost word for word later.  This appears to me redundant  and unnecessary.  <br />Chapter 4, &quot; A Humble, Casual Savior&quot;, sums  up New Testament Morality.  It is a very effective chapter, the best in the  book.  It is also the longest and needs to be digested carefully.  Girzone  also writes simply and that style can be deceiving.  He summarizes Jesus'  teaching in the chapter and manages to cover all the bases that New  Testament moralists take books to write.<br />This simplicity of style is best  appreciated when the book is read in small increments.  Reflection should  follow, even prayer.  <br />The last two chapters concerning the end of Jesus'  life seem unimportant.  He simply narrates at that point.  a point or two  is made, especially about God's humor, but one would wish for a little more  reflection.<br />Nevertheless as usual Girzone challenges the soul with his  spiritual insights in the Savior.	1999-04-22
US	52984061	R3AA3DIBSNBEM3	0140340246	548638073	An Episode of Sparrows	Books	4	27	27	N	N	A simple, but heart-wrenching book	As a child I read this book.  I read it again.  I remembered the poignant moments of this novel.  Lovejoy's heartbreak over the destruction of her garden, her intense loneliness and desperation when she learns her mother  has left her, Olivia's pain when she realizes she cannot live to belong to  someone.  Godden writes of the gritty streets of London in the post-war  years.  Her story of Lovejoy, Tip and Sparkey fighting against the brutal  realities of survival to create something beautiful ins both inspiring and  charming.  <br />Overall stands the statue of the Virgin disturbing and  consoling the efforts of the girl who tries to keep things clean and  pretty.  <br />The characters of this story, the Chesneys, Mrs Combie and her  husband Vincent, Father Lambert and Charles and Liz give flesh and spirit  to the bleakness of a world trying to rise from ashes, with hope, tarnished  and torn, but insistent.	1998-12-07
