US	52987389	RI4XCC33JAP3R	0345464710	904659248	The Murder Artist: A Thriller	Books	5	2	3	N	N	First Rate Chills and Suspense...I Couldn't Put it Down!	Workaholic Washington DC based Alex Callahan has been-there, done-that in most of the major trouble spots of the world.  Obsessed by the demands of his high-pressure career as an investigative TV journalist, he's relegated his wife Liz and six-year-old twin sons, Sean and Kevin, to a distant second place on his priority scale until Liz decides that she's no longer willing to accept whatever crumbs of time and affection he has to offer.  Taking the children with her, she accepts a job at a museum in Portland, Maine, and leaves Alex to discover just how empty and meaningless his life becomes without them.  Desperate to make amends, Alex is willing to agree to anything she proposes that might help mend the rift: specifically, a month's trial visit from Sean and Kevin and full-time, single parenthood 24/7.  One of the first lessons he has to learn is that you don't break a promise to your kids.  When the boys set their hearts on attending a Renaissance Faire being held in nearby Maryland, Alex quickly agrees and then, reluctantly, is forced to stick to his word.  Caught up in the spirit of the Faire, he bows to their pleading and lets the boys head for the jousting ring which takes them briefly out of his sight.  In that tiny instant...they disappear, and Alex, for the first time, realizes the full weight of what it means to be a parent.  Concern turns to fear turns to increasing terror as his frantic personal search becomes a police dragnet which still yields no sign of his boys.  Then his cellular rings...a trembling voice from his home phone cries \\"Daddy\\"...and after it's abruptly silenced, the full horror of the situation crashes down on him.  Now he and Liz become enmeshed in the media circus he knows so well from the other side of the camera, but, as time goes by with no demand for ransom or other contact, the officials reluctantly back-burner their search and Alex is left to go it alone.  Now 24/7 takes on a different meaning for him.  Using his job-honed research skills, he starts with a tiny clue left behind in his home for whatever reason by the kidnapper and hits the Internet for answers.  A nebulous pattern begins to emerge which necessitates an increasingly far-ranging personal search that takes him from the neon wilderness of Las Vegas to the back country and swamps of Louisiana to the decadence of Northern California.  When he finally understands WHY they were taken...HOW to find and rescue his boys becomes his and the reader's imperative.  That's the point where this breathtakingly superb thriller quite literally becomes un-put-downable. <br /> <br />In his previous novels, John Case has primarily focused his attention on global issues, so this highly-personalized, domestic thriller is a stunning change of pace for him, highlighted and intensified by his use of a first-person narrator.  Roughly the first hundred pages of the book explore the mindset of an abductee's parents in some depth and establish Alex as a completely sympathetic and wholly believable protagonist...essential given the trials and terrors that he's subsequently called upon to face and overcome...whom Case then surrounds with a fascinatingly diverse and equally well-realized cast of supporting characters.  Fictional Alex uses research as a tool to provide him with the answers he so desperately seeks and dearly wants.  John Case's obviously thorough research into the real worlds of Ren Faires, professional magic and voodoo provides his readers with an intensely interesting and beautifully-detailed background for the story he has to tell.  This may well be his strongest and best novel to date, and I can't help thinking how well it would translate into a genuine blockbuster of a movie.	2004-10-22
US	52987389	RICC0C7OYP33T	0345456548	53099443	Shoulder the Sky : A Novel	Books	5	8	13	N	N	Stunning Continuation of a Superb Historical Series	Last year's introduction to the Reavley family saga \\"No Graves as Yet\\" established the essential parameters of plot and character which now become the building blocks for its searing sequel.  Shortly after the arranged murder of their parents by a sinister person whom they come to think of as The Peacemaker on the eve of the assassination of Arch-Duke Ferdinand at Sarajevo, Cambridge Professor of Bible Studies, Joseph Reavley; his brother Matthew, an intelligence officer in the British Secret Service; and their sisters, Hannah and Judith, uncovered and thwarted a plot masterminded by that same individual whose world-shaking implications could have altered the course of history.  Nine months later when their story resumes, the juggernaut that has become World War I is threatening all of Europe, and Joseph (as a chaplain) and Judith (as an ambulance driver and occasional chauffeur for top-level military personnel) are serving their country amid the mire, blood and slaughter of the front lines near Ypres as part of the outnumbered and all but overwhelmed British Expeditionary Forces valiantly trying to stem the tide of the German invasion of Flanders.  Back in London, Matthew is all too aware that their previous encounter with The Peacemaker has \\"...scotched the snake but not killed it...\\", so his primary goal as an intelligence officer is to try to keep one step ahead of him while searching for anything that might provide even the slightest clue to his identity or what he has in mind for Britain.  These two story lines begin to intertwine after Joseph encounters blustering, grossly insensitive journalist Eldon Prentice who has used his connection with his uncle, General Owen Cullingford, to gain access to the front-lines for purposes of writing a blistering and unvarnished expose of their real horrors thereby undermining and crippling vital recruiting efforts at home.  Before he can do so, Joseph finds his drowned body face down in No-Man's-Land and realizes that hisdeath must be murder...not by the Germans, but at the hands of someone from their own outfit.  While Joseph is torn between his moral imperative to find and bring Prentice's killer to justice and the fear that a friend might be culpable, Matthew becomes convinced that there is a traitor in Intelligence who is helping The Peacemaker in his anti-war efforts.  Two more deaths muddy the waters, and he finally sends Joseph to Gallipoli on a top-secret mission that may help to confirm the face of their enemy.  The answers he seeks there elude him, but a chance encounter with another journalist, brilliant, iconoclastic Richard Mason, confirms The Peacemaker's plan to strike at the heart of Britain's morale through the power of the press.  The terrifying consequences of Joseph's desperate venture only leave more issues for the next book to resolve...and the Great War rages on. <br /> <br />I believe that it's impossible to read Anne Perry's moving and impeccably accurate historical novels...especially her Reavley books...without becoming personally involved in the moral issues which confront her characters.  They present an intellectual and emotional challenge which I find rare and incredibly stimulating.  In addition to watching people whom I've come to care for deeply face up to and grow as a result of their experiences, it seems to me that Ms. Perry is using the War as a crucible: Joseph learns to feel as well as think (and to trust his feelings); Judith evolves from a sheltered, aimless chit into a strong, selfless, dedicated woman through heartbreak and loss.  Platitudes about tight-pacing, extraordinary attention to period, vividly-realized, suspenseful plotting and nuances of characterization simply don't quite cut it.  I'm just extremely grateful that Ms. Perry decided to bring her family history to life to share with us and am eagerly and avidly waiting to find out what happens next.        <br />	2004-10-04
US	52987389	R8HBDN3P1DAHL	0345468104	440446932	Grave Endings: A Novel of Suspense (Molly Blume)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Mazel tov, Molly!   You're a Mitzvah!	Tough and tenacious Molly Blume's nose for nuances of attitude and behavior is largely responsible for her success as a free-lance journalist cum true-crime author.  Sticking that nose where it doesn't belong has led her into danger as well as successful sleuthing in the past, usually because something about those previous cases had piqued her curiosity and made her unwilling to settle intellectually for what seemed obvious to everyone else.  \\"Grave Endings\\" involves a totally different situation.  Young wanna-be actor Randy Creeley's death from a drug overdose in his shabby apartment meant just one thing to Molly's friend LAPD Detective Andy Connors: a locket once worn by a dead woman has been found in his possession.  Ergo!  He could now write 'case closed' to the unsolved, six-year-old stabbing death of Abby Lasher...Abby who was Molly Blume's best friend and the recipient of Molly's gift of the locket with its protective red thread enclosure.  It seems like a simple and obvious matter of identification and conclusion to Andy, but Molly has spent those years haunted by what-ifs? and regrets, mourning the death of her friend and agonizing over her own guilt in not being there for her when she might have helped to prevent it.  Not just her mind, but her emotions reject this quick closure to her friend's brutal ending, and now that she finally has a starting point for an investigation of her own, nothing...not police indifference, her family's concern, nor her pending wedding to her beloved Zack...will prevent her from pursuing it.  Driven by her insatiable need to know more, Molly sorts through the human wreckage that dissolute, charismatic Randy has left behind.  The deeper she digs, the more she becomes convinced that his death is not an isolated accident, but a conscious and deliberate ending to a pattern of cover-up and complicity in old abuses and deaths that began many years before.  Once the pieces start falling into place, Molly unearths one damning piece of evidence which enables her to act swiftly and daringly to save an innocent woman's life and ensure that justice will be served so the LAPD can at last enter \\"case solved\\" into both Abby and Randy's files.   <br /> <br />I think that the Molly Blume novels are some of the freshest and most exciting additions to the Female Sleuth component of the suspense genre that I've encountered in the past several years.  Basically, if Rochelle Krich writes it, I want to read it, but her Molly books please me most.  Why?  Because I love the character!  Molly's warm, she's caring...she's smart and savvy...yet she's so intensely and believably her own person.  Moreover, I'm always delighted by their fast-pacing, intricate plotting and intriguing premises (the fascinating tie-in here to those Kabalistic-inspired red threads, ie.)  However, lagniappe for me is not just Molly herself, but Molly's world.  Perhaps more than is true of either of Ms. Krich's two previous books in this outstanding series, \\"Grave Endings\\" gives me entre and welcome to the world of Orthodox Judaism, and I genuinely value and appreciate the privilege of sharing it with Molly, Zack and their families.	2004-10-04
US	52987389	R1ECG931136II0	0345410971	693332749	Paradise City: A Novel	Books	5	3	6	N	N	Magnifico!	The \\"Family\\" meant different things to different Italian-Americans.  To young Giancarlo Lo Manto growing up in the slums of New York, the Sicilian Mafia was only a distant, menacing shadow in comparison to the cruel reality of its Neapolitan wing, the Camorra, and the powerful Rossi family who exacted the lifeblood of his East Bronx neighborhood in tribute.  His father's murder at their hands puts an end to his childhood; his mother takes him and his sister back to Naples, but Giancarlo remembers.  As an adult, his thirst for vengeance impels him into police work with but a single goal in mind: to cripple and ultimately destroy the Neapolitan drug trade with its murderous understructure which is at the heart of the Camorra/Rossi New York operation.  Under the mentorship of brilliant and equally dedicated Commander of Homicide Pietro Bartoni, he hones his skills as a deadly, 'street-smart' detective to the point where he does indeed become a highly disruptive and effective adversary, and the American Camorra under the leadership of young Don Pete Rossi first takes notice and then takes action. Once he arranges the kidnapping of Lo Manto's fifteen-year-old niece Paula (who is spending her junior year in New York) as bait to lure Lo Manto to New York, this extraordinary novel becomes an absolutely breath-taking and unforgetably suspenseful game of cat-and-mouse between its charismatic hero and the men who are determined to kill him played out against the dark underbelly of the City.  Although he's out of his territory and stripped of his gun, Lo Manto isn't completely out of his depth.  His childhood acquaintances are there to help him, and his old friend, Midtown North's Captain Frank Fernandez, puts the Department's resources at his command.  To 'Lone Wolf' Lo Manto's disgust, he also assigns a veteran police officer, daring and determined Jennifer Fabrini, as his 'baby-sitter' and back-up.  As their partnership grows more interdependent, the ramifications of their search for the missing girl become increasingly complicated by echoes from a past which refuses to stay buried and eventually culminate in an electrifying confrontation which crystalizes the life-or-death choices implicit to Omerta.   <br /> <br />More than any other genre, if a thriller is to 'work' for me, I have to genuinely care about what happens to its characters when they are faced with a crisis situation in a believably true-to-life environment.  Jennifer and Lo Manto...their allies and foes...inhabit an intensely real, completely credible world, and watching them maneuver within its confines while driven by their own demons against the wildest odds for success was a genuinely thrilling literary experience for me.  Cross the verisimilitude of \\"The Godfather\\" with the high-wire tensions of \\"High Noon\\" redefined on his own terms by the magic of Lorenzo Carcaterra's brilliant craftsmanship and \\"Paradise City\\" becomes a reading experience to be savored and treasured.	2004-09-27
US	52987389	R3MS8UDBLRN1EJ	0345463269	118965360	Loaded Dice (Swain, James)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Another Smashing Success for James Swain	While he was still with the Atlantic City PD, resourceful Tony Valentine parlayed his innate talent for spotting and exposing casino cheats into a fine science...one which has stood him in good stead in his Florida retirement years.  When the death of his wife left him at loose ends, he successfully reentered the gaming world as a private consultant and scam-buster.  His latest commission involves a fast trip to Las Vegas where he's been hired to demystify a highly sophisticated cheating device called Deadlock for some high level gaming executives.  The pay's good, and the visit will give him a chance to unobtrusively touch base with his irresponsible son, Gerry (currently in-town to learn card counting from one of Tony's shadier acquaintances before joining his Dad's business)...what could possibly go wrong?  In a word, everything!  Gerry's nowhere to be found; Tony's demonstration comes to a screeching halt when he spots a 'jumper' on a penthouse balcony at his old friend Nick Nicocropolis's casino, and after he talks distraught Lucy Price down and takes a shine to her, Nick tells him that she's suspect number one in cheating the casino out of a sizeable amount of money which is only the start of Nick's immediate problems.  A stripper apparently involved in some heavy-duty money laundering at the Acropolis has been murdered, and now the FBI are threatening to close him down unless he cooperates with their investigation.  Nick is in dire need of Tony's 'grift sense', and Tony...convinced that his kid is in some sort of major trouble...desperately needs some fast, insider help in finding him.  As these two mavericks join forces, the violence escalates, and Tony suddenly realizes that he's inadvertently gotten caught up in a multi-national game where unless he can control the wild cards in the deck, the dealer's hole card could bust Las Vegas.<br />Since Travis McGee entered my life many years ago, nobody else has captured my heart and loyalties like Tony Valentine.Yes, actually living in Tony's 'world' as I do certainly adds to this splendid series' enormous appeal for me, but James Swain's compelling and creative storytelling coupled with his extraordinary flair for creating characters whom I can genuinely care about is a rare and wonderful thing in my eyes.  With so many over-the-top thrillers flooding the bookstores these days, how exciting it is to find an author who really knows his chosen milieu and is talented enough to allow his characters to interact naturally and believably within the confines and perils of the conflicts which confront them there.  \\"Loaded Dice\\" may just be the caper that puts Tony and James Swain firmly in Edgar/Anthony/Shamus awards territory as one of this year's most innovative and suspenseful reads, and I simply cannot recommend it too highly.	2004-06-19
US	52987389	R2ILPDUX39UMRS	034546222X	619839404	Bone Harvest	Books	5	4	6	N	N	A Bountiful Harvest of Chills and Suspense	The tragic death of her husband impelled Minneapolis policewoman, Claire Watkins, to flee the pressures of big city law enforcement and accept a Deputy Sheriff's position with the Pepin County PD in the rural bluff country of upstate Wisconsin.  Their three years in the small farming community of Fort St. Antoine have been good ones for Claire and her young daughter Meg.  Claire's gradually putting her life back together; the demands of her new job are minimal; she's even found a new love.  Then one phone call changes everything.  On July 7, 1952, the entire Schuler family - Bertha, Otto and their five children - was mercilessly gunned down on their isolated farm.  That crime was never solved.  Now, precisely fifty years later, anonymous letters to Editor Harold Peabody of the Durand Daily from an apparently Schuler-obsessed 'Wrath of God' are crying for vengeance and threatening mayhem and death.  Their author starts small.  Claire's originally called upon to investigate a break-in at the local Farmers' Co-op...troublesome, but nothing missing except some expensive pesticides.  Then a much-loved garden is 'murdered'...a little girl's chickens are slaughtered, and, finally, a local's Fourth of July lemonade is laced with deadly poison.  In each case, Unknown leaves a trail of tiny bones to mark his passage.  With time running out and a madman now poised to strike at the entire community, Claire's only hope is to outthink him by reading the riddle of those bones correctly and uncovering the horrific truth behind the Schuler massacre whose consequences apparently time can neither bury nor erase.  When an old photo suggests a shocking possibility, Claire goes with her gut.  Once she does, the consequences of her decision will literally and figuratively blow you away.  <br />This fourth entry in an increasingly solid series has everything going for it: most especially, a wonderfully-realized, vibrant heroine who's intensely and believably human as well as an utterly chilling 'what if' plot premise that is so skillfully developed, so logically and psychologically apt that it will linger in your memory long after Claire and her friends have restored sanity and stability to Fort St. Antoine.  The book presented me with an intriguing dilemma.  Its plotting is so tight...its characters, so real...the suspense, so gripping that I couldn't put it down, and, yet, the sheer lyricism of the writing made me want to slow down and savor the nuances of Ms. Logue's style.  It's so good to know that she's already at work on her next Claire Watkins novel.  I can hardly wait to read it.	2004-06-15
US	52987389	R327JVOT52HL4K	0345467779	799300283	Earthquake Weather	Books	5	4	7	N	N	Wry Hollywood Noir with a WOW! Finish!	Mark Hayes has no desire to be in the movies; he just wants to make them...HIS way!  He has a dream; he has talent and experience, but after fifteen years of trying to cut himself a slice of cinematic production pie, he not only can't seem to catch a break, but what little luck he has had has been all bad.  When this unforgettable noir chiller opens, he's on shaky ground in more ways than one.  LA (including his vintage apartment in the San Fernando Valley) has just been rocked by a major earthquake, and all hell is breaking loose on the Warner Bros lot where he and his neurotic co-worker, Alex Richards, are somewhat tenuously employed as creative executives aka D-(for development)-boys by (...) slimy, utterly ruthless but currently hot producer, Dexter Morton.  His immediate situation does have one upside.  While it costs him his womanizing roommate, the earthquake has given him a chance to finally meet his neighbors who will soon become his friends and allies: former premier-script-writer, Clyde McCoy; mysterious, ganja-smoking T. Zimmerman ('Zim\\"); and attractive, reclusive Becky Osterhage.  Unfortunately, the quake also gave Morton time to take a good look at the script for his next production, and now he's on the rampage.  Mark had figured if he could just manage to cope with Morton's abusive behaviors, he might be able to ride his coat-tails long enough to parlay a dead end job and a loser's image into a ticket to ride on his own.  However, his plans to keep his cool at all costs start to unravel when Dexter fires its original author and coerces Mark into mavening a ghost-writing deal with a local hack to revise the script with some very illegal money involved.  He gets further enmeshed in his boss's unsavory lifestyle at Morton's 50th birthday bash after he plays reluctant Good Samaritan and rescues Charity James...Morton's mistress...from his brutality during the course of the evening.  Going back early the next morning to retrieve her possessions, Mark finds Morton face-down \\"doing a William Holden\\" in his swimming pool, and his frantic call to 911 quickly brings the LAPD, eager to charge him with Murder One once they can discount accidental death.  From that point on, don't plan on putting this spellbinder down.  Mark is a clueless Alice blundering through the warped underbelly of Hollywood's looking-glass world, desperately searching for answers while trying to corner a remorseless killer before he winds up very dead himself.<br />To quote classic noir hero, Rick Blaine, this wickedly wry novel has \\"...a WOW! finish!\\" which is exactly what I was thinking when I turned the last page with its pluperfect zinger and finally shut off my light.  Tour-de-force plotting!  Wonderfully real (and wonderfully realized) characters are just the tip of this blockbuster of a literary iceberg.  Mr. Lankford's gritty, insider's take on the film business made fascinating reading, but it was his style that completely blew me away.  The writing here is simply so good...so true to its genric predecessors...that savoring its nuances was a genuinely delightful experience.  Long and short...if there were a Richter scale for modern noir, \\"Earthquake Weather\\" really is 'the Big one'!	2004-05-14
US	52987389	R2UCH27W81QG2X	0345467159	999628123	The Alpine Pursuit (Daheim, Mary)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	More Than Worth Pursuing!	Mid-February in Alpine, Washington, is no fun!  While the little mountain town is no longer as isolated as it used to be, alternating blizzards and thaws keep its residents close to home with one wary eye on the steadily rising Skykomish River but, otherwise, eager for diversion.  Drawing her cast from both town and gown, Destiny Parsons, Professor of Theatre Arts at Skykomish Community College (SCC), takes advantage of Alpine's winter shutdown to mount a full-scale production of her own avant garde melodrama, &quot;The Outcast&quot;.  Eccentric Vida Runkel, House &amp; Home editor for the Alpine Advocate, heartily approves...her obnoxious grandson Roger has a walk-on part; amateur sleuth Emma Lord, its Publisher and Editor in Chief (who's suffered through other productions by the Alpine Council Dramatic Club in the past and is in no mood to appreciate sturm und drang, real or make-believe)is dubious.  These last two years since her longtime lover and about-to-be-husband, Tom Cavanaugh, was assassinated have been hard ones for her.  She's depressed and trying hard to cope with mid-life-crisis syndrome which not even a recent, diversionary trip to Rome with her priest brother Ben has eased.  Nevertheless, when duty calls demanding an Advocate review of Destiny's drama...its cast of characters reads like a who's-who of Alpine society, Emma's on-hand for the premiere performance where things suddenly get terribly out of hand.  Unfortunate accident or premeditated murder?  Someone has substituted real bullets for blanks and the shots that ring out as the final curtain falls literally spell curtains for SCC's controversial Dean of Students, Hans Berenger.  Even though she'd rather sit this one out, Emma's nose for news won't allow her to let the law take its course because the Law in the person of her old friend, Sheriff Milo Dodge, has his hands full already with a major flood alert which is seriously impeding his all-out pursuit of a missing drug dealer.  Once again, Emma and Vida are hot on the case, and, as is generally true of their previous investigations, Mary Daheim provides them with an intriguing variety of viable suspects who have motives aplenty for murder.  By the time the murky Skykomish has subsided, Emma has had to wade through some emotionally deep waters herself before she can find the face of a killer behind the mummer's mask and come to terms with the real reason why Dean Berenger had to die.<br />Applause! Applause!  This is number 16 (A-P) in Mary Daheim's beautifully-sustained, Emma Lord mysteries, and I can certainly understand why.  Nutshell?  &quot;Pursuit&quot; (like its predecessors) is a psychologically-apt, extremely interesting story, extremely well-told.  As a longtime fan, I find it impossible not to immerse myself in the Alpine milieu; it's one of those fictional worlds that's almost more real than any true-to-life setting.  I care about the characters who live there.  I'm as much rooting for Emma to find personal happiness as I am for her to solve whatever case she happens to be working on, and I find myself as much involved with her friends and co-workers as people as I am with their impact upon Emma's detecting.  Finally, I'm always impressed by Ms. Daheim's skill in providing just enough backstory to remind her 'regulars' where she left off but still enable new readers to easily tune in to the Alpine mindset.  Good news!  There's a lot of alphabet left...I'm pretty sure that Emma will be back, and I know for certain that I'll be glad to see her.	2004-04-21
US	52987389	R10LF52QPLP2OX	0345433327	437074957	Black Creek Crossing	Books	5	11	15	N	N	Saul's Old Black Magick Will Hold You in Its Spell	I don't normally read horror fiction, but I always make an exception for John Saul's novels.  He has a rare talent for decanting the old stereotypic conventions of the genre into engrossingly new American Gothic bottles that always somehow manage to transcend the melodramatics and cliched limitations of his chosen subject area.  His latest highly-complex, beautifully-crafted chiller kept me glued to my chair until its gory lightening-and-thunderbolt-from-the-blue denouement shocked me back shuddering into the relative sanity of the real world.<br />Coupled with an offer of employment for her ne'er-do-well, drunken husband Marty, devoutly-religious Myra Sullivan sees her wealthy, realtor sister Joni Fletcher's encouragement to buy a badly run-down, old house in Roundtree, an historic New England community, as a sign from heaven offering a fresh start for her troubled family.  Unfortunately, the Sullivan's bright daughter Angel's hopes that a new school in a new environment will transform her life are soon dashed.  Once again, she's a total misfit within her peer group: her only friends, her classmate and fellow pariah, Seth Baker, and a mysterious, Cheshire-like cat that apparently comes with her new home whom she names Houdini.  Fighting a losing battle against terror and harassment on all sides, what happens to Angel and Seth after John Saul juxtaposes the influence of the Sullivan house with its tragedy-haunted past upon its desperately, dysfunctional modern inhabitants is magical storytelling at its suspenseful best.  I should actually say 'MagicK' because...once Houdini leads them to a witch's grimmoire hidden away for more than three hundred years in the Sullivan's basement and then to a safe hideaway where they can practice its teachings...that's what his desperate young protagonists eventually turn to as their only defense against a world where neither their parents nor their peers offer them any welcome, acceptance or personal security.  The horrific resultsof their steadily increasing involvement with Old Magick are literally and completely spellbinding.  <br />There are so many strengths to &quot;Black Creek Crossing&quot;.  Most horror novels require tremendous leaps of the imagination in order to accept their premises.  Here, the utterly realistic characterizations...the beautifully-detailed backstory...and the utter 'logic' of the youngsters' actions given the pressures of their situation all combine to create a moving and thoroughly compelling reading experience.	2004-03-16
US	52987389	RLWE6DBKTWOFR	0449007197	749794487	Death in a Beach Chair	Books	5	5	7	N	N	Strong Addition to a Delightful Series	Mid-January in Hancock, Connecticut, finds Susan Henshaw fighting a bad case of winter blahs and game for anything that doesn't involve snow, slush or sub-zero temps.  When her close friend, Kathleen Gordon (second wife of Jed Henshaw's longtime pal and co-worker at the ad agency, Jerry Gordon) mentions the magic words, tropical vacation! faster than you can say Google, Susan hits the Internet and emerges with reservations for four at Compass Bay, a small but posh resort on a tiny island in the Caribbean.  After their plans to travel as couples hit a snag, the Henshaws arrive a day late to find the resort exactly as lovely and luxurious as advertised but something seriously amiss with the Gordon's presumably happy marriage.  Jerry seems preoccupied, remote and entirely too interested in glamorous, single guest Allison McAllister to suit an increasingly grumpy and worried Kathleen who is afraid that Jerry may be having second thoughts about remarrying and starting a new family with her after the tragic deaths of his first wife and children some years ago.  Practically before she can unpack her suitcase, Susan finds herself confronted with a case of murder: Allison's strangled body has been discovered in the resort's beachfront gazebo.  Once the exotic blonde is identified as Jerry's no-longer-frumpy, former sister-in-law...who's popped up out of the blue and apparently trailed him to Compass Bay...the local police are disinclined to look any further for their killer.  With Jerry locked up at the local embassy in lieu of jail and Kathleen the victim of a sudden attack, Susan substitutes sleuthing for snorkeling until unresolved mysteries from the past suddenly make all too perfect sense in the present and the real murderer can be exposed. <br />So many series 'cozies' that I read are long on fluff and short on substance, but Valerie Wolzien's 'Susan Henshaw' novels are delightfully meaty.  She has a refreshing knack for creating warm, believable characters and then enmeshing them in intriguing predicaments which always encourage her readers to tag along while her protagonists ingeniously manage to extricate themselves from whatever pitfalls she's devised to test them during their various investigations.  &quot;Death in a Beach Chair&quot; is a fine blend of clever dialogue and suspenseful action with a minimum of gore...a grand cure for winter doldrums or very pleasant company on a lazy summer day at the beach.	2004-03-07
US	52987389	R1O7HPJ26TS7WH	0345451473	636432474	Hate Crime (Bernhardt, William)	Books	5	2	4	N	N	Graphic!  Gripping!  Great!	\\"Let's consider the facts.  The defendent is painfully unpopular and has been crucified in the press.  I understand the evidence is hopelessly stacked against him...the case is impossible and unwinnable...you don't have any money.  Will Ben take your case?  I'd say it's a sure thing!\\"  And so would most of best-selling, legal thriller author William Bernhardt's legion of fans: those of us who have faithfully followed Tulsa-based, defense attorney Ben Kinkaid's ardent championship of the down and desperate in and outside the courtroom ever since his debut appearance in \\"Primary Justice\\".  Surprise! surprise! Ben wants no part of defending Johnny Christensen who's on-trial in Chicago for the sensational, gay-bashing, torture-murder of Tony Barovick...a trial which has come to screeching halt when Johnny's co-defendent and fraternity brother, Brett Mathers, and his defense attorney are gunned down in open court by a member of a militant, gay rights group.  Now Johnny's desperate mother wants Ben to take over his case.  Johnny has admitted to his participation in the bashing, but not the murder.  If Ben can't get him off, Illinois has a death penalty.  In the face of Ben's flat-out refusal to do so, aggravated by his equally firm refusal to explain why, his partner, spunky Christina McCall, decides to go it alone, gets their client's reluctant consent and steps up to the plate for her first major, criminal trial.  While she and other series regulars (Jones and Paula, Loving and their newly-hired intern, Vicki Harmon) are desperately searching for alternative possibilities which just may be enough to get Johnny a lesser sentence, back in Tulsa, Detective Mike Morelli is still licking his wounds over his recent failure...yeah, he got the kid back BUT!...to apprehend a daring band of kidnappers and/or recover the ransom money despite full cooperation and support from Chicago FBI Special Agent Danielle Swift.  An exceptionally horrific murder unexpectedly brings Agent Swiftback to Tulsa where she again teams with Morelli and his feisty new partner, Detective Kate Baxter, to try and put faces and names to both killer and victim.  Nothing is adding up until another, inexplicably brutal murder provides an obscure connecting link and, suddenly, things start falling into place.  Inevitably, all roads lead back to Chicago and the Christensen trial.  Secrets which have been hidden for years start emerging from the shadows.  A breath-taking series of slam-bang, cliff-hanger events first put Ben and his entire crew in deadly peril and then lead Morelli inexorably to the master criminal and the shocking truth behind both the murders and what really happened to Tony Barovick.  Plan to stay up late with this one!  It's a winner!<br />Nobody does grippingly complex plotting and hair-trigger suspense better than William Bernhardt.  Yes!  This stunning book absolutely stands alone, but it's even more absorbing reading for fans of the entire action-packed series.  What we have here are characters who are so realistic and true-to-life that one of this novel's real joys is the light which it sheds as backstory on Ben and his friends' lives and involvements.  I've read them all.  I've yet to find a more timely, engrossing, un-put-down-able case for Ben & Company than \\"Hate Crime\\".	2004-02-25
US	52987389	R15KHO5XHLGY8Y	0449007294	724374944	The Bar Mitzvah Murder: A Christine Bennett Mystery	Books	5	2	2	N	N	A Dream Vacation Turns Deadly Serious!	Recently, versatile Lee Harris gave her fans a much grittier, extremely intriguing change of pace with &quot;Murder in Hell's Kitchen&quot; which introduced police detective, Jane Bauer, coping handily with mayhem and murder in The Big Apple.  Although Ms. Harris' latest novel, &quot;The Bar Mitzvah Murder&quot;, takes us back to her established series characters: Christine Bennett (former nun turned amateur sleuth) and her policeman husband, Jack Brooks, it too represents something of a departure from her usual suburban focus which makes it, I think, one of the strongest and most moving novels in the 'Holiday Mysteries' to date.  After a rough patch of several years while Jack struggled to balance his responsibilities to NYPD with night classes at law school, things are finally looking up for the Brooks family.  When the novel opens, degree in hand and newly-promoted to a lieutenancy, Jack comes home with the astonishing news that the Police Commissioner has personally assigned him to a joint American/Israeli task force aimed at tracking down international criminals and that creating a database for this project will entail a two-week trip to Israel...a trip which can and will also include Christine and their young son, Eddie.  Thrilled by the prospect of fulfilling her life-long desire to visit the Holy Land, icing on the cake for Christine is knowing that her trip overseas will overlap a visit by close friends, Mel and Hal Gross, who have been invited...all expenses paid...to attend Mel's wealthy cousin Gabe Gross' late-life Bar Mitzvah being held in Jerusalem just prior to the Brooks' arrival.  So much for dream vacations!  Still fighting jet-lag, Christine receives a frantic yelp for help from a thoroughly panicked Mel: Gabe has disappeared!  According to witnesses, he had left his party, was found lying on the ground outside the hotel, and while a doctor member of the family tried to administer CPR, an ambulance came and whisked him away.  Problem?  The ambulance never arrived at any of the local hospitals.  While Jack uses his connection with the Israeli police to jump start an investigation, Christine focuses her attention on the immediate family only to discover that genial Gabe was not averse to sharp dealings, had a troubled marital history and had managed to completely alienate his adult children.  After Gabe's body turns up DOA some days later, Christine subjugates sightseeing to sleuthing.  The cops now know how he died...it's up to her to discover why and who.  As usual, following in her footsteps while she does so makes for a thoroughly satisfying and completely enjoyable reading experience.<br />I always finish a Lee Harris novel with a smile on my face.  In addition to the fun and excitement of tagging along during their well-plotted, intricate investigations, connecting with Jack and Christine's world and becoming part of their extended family is always such a pleasure.  Lagniappe for me in &quot;The Bar Mitzvah Murder&quot; was a chance to not just see, but genuinely experience Israel vicariously while I shared their working vacation.  Emis!  They were absolutely delightful travel companions.	2004-02-09
US	52987389	RAJGMIRF4CKCP	0345462742	44171075	The Cutting Room	Books	5	3	4	N	N	There's Nothing Trivial about this Magnificent Mystery	The highest compliment that I can pay &quot;The Cutting Room&quot; is my gut sense that Orson Welles would probably have relished filming it!  And what a vehicle it could make for Woody Allen!  However, in its present form, mystery readers and film buffs alike should rejoice that Edgar-winning author Laurence Klavan has chosen to make his hardcover debut with this wonderfully off-the-wall thriller that so faithfully echoes the cinematic characters and devices its ingenious plot celebrates.  What's especially intriguing is that he has created such a likeable anti-hero in Roy Milano that we're...or, at least, I certainly was...perfectly willing to make his priorities our own.  In a nutshell, Roy is obsessed with the movies.  Ever since his wife left him for refusing to abandon his reel world in favor of her more down-to-earth one, he has happily immersed himself in the counter-culture of movie trivia addicts, a culture that is preoccupied not only with what was, but with what might have been.  Long-lost, missing footage from Welles' post &quot;Kane&quot; masterpiece, &quot;The Magnificent Ambersons&quot;, is &quot;...the stuff that dreams are made of...&quot; for such devoutees.  When Roy receives a call from obnoxious Alan Gilbert, self-subsidized TV film maven, announcing that he has a copy of the uncut version, Roy races over to Alan's studio only to arrive too late: Alan has a knife in his heart; the movie has disappeared; sinister Gus Ziegler has been seen leaving the premises, and the chase is on.  At this point, the plot not only thickens, it metamorphosizes into something quite rare and very strange indeed.  In the best tradition of noir gumshoes, Roy and his 'trivial friend' Jeanine trail Ziegler to Hollywood.  There they encounter Schwarzenegger-type megastar, Ben Williams, who (in a true Tinker to Evers to Chance progression) acquired the film from Gus...planning a remake to Roy's horror and dismay...just long enough for his exotic new girlfriend, Erendira,to decamp with it heading for her native Spain.  Ben sends Roy haring after her, and once they connect, the explosive real story behind the film's survival emerges.  The fat lady doesn't sing until all the missing pieces finally come together in a chilling yet bittersweet finale at the Rhinebeck Film Fair in the wilds of upstate New York.  To say any more would be to spoil the enormous pleasure that can be found in watching Roy...faithfully following in his celluloid idols' footsteps...putting paid to assorted villains and giving virtue its due reward.<br />It's subtly and beautifully done, but...direct references aside...every page of this completely engrossing read reminded me of the great films of the past.  Only a tru-fan could have devised this superb caper, and while I've yet to find the McGuffin, I have my suspicions and am planning a more leisurely reread of &quot;The Cutting Room&quot; soon for the sheer fun of savoring all of its cinematic nuances and looking for it.	2004-02-09
US	52987389	R3CJML3155UVPR	034544972X	910379181	Dream House	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Good golly!  Miss Molly!	Molly Blume doesn't like loose ends.  Her career as a crime novelist  free lance journalist involves making sense out of horrific bits and pieces taken from police blotters and weaving them into cohesive investigative reports.  When the pieces don't fit, she wants to know why.  A series of seemingly random acts of malicious vandalism in LA's exclusive Hancock Park catches her attention, and an initial swing through the neighborhood provides her with a first hand introduction to the kind of fiery dissension pro and anti-HARP (Historic Architectural Restoration and Preservation) forces have created in that area, an impression which is reinforced after she attends an acrimonious meeting where both factions are present.  Her involvement with the dispute deepens and becomes more personal due to a chance encounter with former professor of architecture, Oscar Linney, whom she finds wandering the street in a mental fog and takes home to the house he once shared with his daughter Margaret and his irascible son-in-law Hank, thus precipitating her directly into the affairs of the troubled Reston family.  Here are puzzles galore.  It seems Margaret vanished without a trace five months ago, and now the house is up for sale.  Inexplicably, a few days later, it burns to the ground with Linney trapped inside.  While the police opine a case of HARP-related arson with tragic but accidental consequences, Molly's sense of order insists that there must be a connection between Margaret's disappearance and her father's death.  Establishing it puts her right in the line of fire as she turns up enough missing links to eventually form a horrifying picture of greed, graft and corruption, point the police in the right direction to catch a clever and ruthless killer and write - 30 - to her story.<br />I think Molly Blume is one of the most thoroughly satisfying, utterly delightful new sleuths to come along in ages.  \\"Blues in the Night\\" hooked me, but \\"Dream House\\" sold me.  I always expect rock-solid, off-beat plotting and expert craftsmanship from Rochelle Krich, but the mysteries that really ignite the fan impulse in me are novels of character.  And Molly is such a wonderfully complex one!  She's smart, caring, feisty...and fun!  Lagniappe?  Ms. Krich does such a superb job of delineating Molly's deep commitment to her Orthodox Jewish faith that her on-again-off-again romance with her rabbi boyfriend adds still another dimension of depth and humor to her adventures.  I think James Joyce would be very happy with 21st century Molly...I know I am.	2003-11-09
US	52987389	R15J0HPGPUZU79	0345457781	139790280	Mortal Remains	Books	5	7	7	N	N	A Graphic and Gripping Medical Thriller	Charismatic, compassionate Dr. Earl Garnet, Peter Clement's series hero, has a problem.  More than a quarter of a century after his residency days at New York City Hospital, he's solidly established in his chosen profession, living happily in Buffalo with his obstetrician wife, Janet, and their young son...life is good.  However, Coroner Mark Roper and Sheriff Dan Evans' sensational discovery of the 'mortal remains' of his fellow student, old friend and former lover, Dr. Kelly McShane Braden, in the murky depths of an upstate lake at Hampton Junction, NY, twenty-seven years after her mysterious disappearance threatens that serene existence and puts his own life in jeopardy once he commits to actively involving himself in Roper's decision to proceed with a thorough investigation into what is now an obvious case of murder.  Unhappily married to abusive Dr. Charles 'Chaz' Braden, IV (son of prominent and powerful Dr. Charles Braden, III)at the time of her disappearance, Kelly came to Earl for help in leaving him the same day that she vanished.  Although their connection was never established at the time since 'Chaz' was the primary suspect and the case was eventually shelved for lack of evidence, dedicated Dr. Roper...who knew and loved Kelly from his childhood...is now determined to track down her killer, and Garnet somewhat reluctantly volunteers his assistance.  Bad mistake!  Suddenly felled by a mysterious illness, while Earl fights for his life, Roper doggedly continues to search the past for reasonable answers to present enigmas.  He is absolutely convinced that one or both of the Bradens are at the heart of the matter, and once he digs deep enough, he and Dr. Lucy O'Connor, his brilliant and spunky resident assistant, uncover a generation-old cesspool of murder, malpractice and fraud that not only provides ample motivation for Kelly's seemingly inexplicable death (as well as the rapidly mounting death tally at NYCH), but also places them both squarely in harm'sway.  Once we reach this point in the novel, it's impossible to put the book down until justice is finally served in a genuine nail-biter of a tour de force finale.<br />Anyone at all familiar with Earl Garnet's previous walks on the wilder, darker side of his profession has already experienced Peter Clement's enormous talent for turning the nuts and bolts of modern medicine's issues and technology into complex, jet-propelled, reader-friendly medical thrillers.  What I also thoroughly appreciate is his equal talent for creating protagonists that move and intrigue me.  Aside from an exceptionally strong cast of supporting characters, something that I thought was particularily interesting about \\"Mortal Remains\\" is that Dr. Clement took the risk of subordinating his well-established series hero in favor of spot-lighting two new, secondary characters: Mark and Lucy.  That gamble really worked for me and added a great deal to my enjoyment of this wonderful addition to an extremely solid series.	2003-11-09
US	52987389	R3VHN0OUKOTXU0	0345460030	601148044	The Amber Room	Books	5	3	3	N	N	A Treasure of a Thriller	Fact: Three hundred years ago, Frederick of Prussia commissioned it; for centuries, the Romanovs cherished and protected it; Hitler seized it; Goring coveted it; the Russians wanted it back...but in the final days of World War II, the fabulous Amber Room was disassembled and vanished.  Fiction: in the grand tradition of Ludlum and Le Carre, Steve Berry's engrossing debut novel presupposes the possibility of the Room's resurfacing almost sixty years later as the object of a killer-take-all, international treasure hunt with its naive protagonists, Judge Rachel Cutler and her ex-husband Paul, being inexorably drawn deeper and deeper into the dark and deadly world of art collectors who will stop at nothing to further their mania.  Rachel and Paul still have a live-and-let-live relationship, so when her adored father, Russian emigre/Holocaust survivor Karol Borya, dies suddenly under questionable circumstances, Rachel asks Paul for help in settling his estate.  Borya has left her an enigmatic legacy: letters and documentation which identify and speak of but warn her against the Amber Room...a tentative connecting link between it and the recent, inexplicable deaths of Paul's parents...and the unavoidable conclusion that Borya and at least one of his contemporaries knew where the priceless amber panels comprising the Room had been hidden by the Nazis.  Was Borya murdered for this knowledge?  Determined to find some answers, Rachel impulsively sets out to try and locate her father's old friend and is manipulated into acquiring a treacherous new one in her quest for the truth: amoral Christian Knoll, hired assassin for one of the ringleaders in a highly-secret, international art cartel aka The Retrievers of Lost Antiquities.  While Rachel is learning a terrifying lesson about trust, Paul has an equally unfortunate encounter with exotic Suzanne Danzer, Knoll's bitter enemy and rival.  Convinced that Rachel is in real trouble, Paul follows her to Germany.  Reluctantly they join forces with likeable but unscrupulous entrepreneur, Wayland Drew (who has his own plans for the Room), and together they manage to track it to a cavern deep in the Harz Mountains only to discover that they have arrived too late...the panels have disappeared again...and the trail that will eventually lead them to the legendary artifact in situ is both perilous and bloody.  \\"Over my dead body\\" acquires a whole new meaning within the walls of the Amber Room.<br />It's really hard to believe that this is a first novel.  Its fast-moving, complex plot is tightly and beautifully structured for maximum emotional impact; the central characters (both heroic and villainous) seem totally real within the context of the storyline, and its high-powered combination of fact with fiction overlaid with romance and genuinely chilling suspense make for a real nail-biter of a reading experience.  I'm a thriller fan, fairly choosy about what I expect from the genre, and I found it very hard to put this book down.  I'm looking forward to reading more by multi-talented Steve Berry...and, hopefully, soon!	2003-09-02
US	52987389	R34IDIDL7LUWGO	0449007316	729564984	Death on a Silver Platter	Books	5	6	6	N	N	A Solid Gold Reading Experience	Amateur sleuth Sophie Greenway more than has her hands full running the Maxfield Plaza Hotel, critiquing Twin Cities restaurants for the Minneapolis Times Register while still trying to enjoy some semblance of a happy home life with her husband Bram.  Unfortunately, she's also a soft touch for a friend in trouble, so when a working dinner with gal pal Elaine Veeland is abruptly cut short by Elaine's daughter Tracy's attempted suicide, Sophie suddenly finds herself precipitated full-tilt into the barbed-wire animosities of the dysfunctional Vreeland family and up to her neck in the most emotionally-fraught murder investigation of her career.  Carl Vreeland made a fortune in the construction business...a fortune which he did not live long enough to enjoy, but which he passed intact to his bigoted wife Millie and their three troubled children: Alex, Elaine and Danny.  Millie ran the company until the youngsters...all but Danny who chose a different path...were old enough to take control of its various operations, but now the firm is floundering, and the adults are at each other's throats over what to do about resolving the situation.  Then Millie dies.  Accident or murder?  While the police are still investigating, deeply-disturbed/rebellious Tracy disappears and is later found strangled in Bram's daughter Margie's apartment.  Her subsequent death fuels Sophie's search for a double killer, and, as is frequently the case with Ms. Hart's superbly-crafted puzzlers, the solution to all of these present evils lies buried in the dreadful past, a past which, by a quirk of fate, actually links Sophie directly to the Vreelands and adds impetus to her quest for the truth.  When she peels away the shadows, what she finds hidden there almost gets her killed.<br />Ellen Hart is one of my very favorite mystery writers.  While I honestly believe that she couldn't write a bad book if you put her in handcuffs, I also think that \\"Death on a Silver Platter\\" is her most compelling and psychologically-complex Culinary Mystery to date.  Its intricate plot moves like a house-a-fire; the style is absolutely gripping, and although Sophie is always at the heart of the action, Ms. Hart has developed her entire cast of characters in far greater depth than is generally true of genre fiction, so it's almost impossible not to become genuinely involved in their lives.  Although I would never apply the term 'cozy' to Ms. Hart's novels, there's also just enough of her trademark wry humor here to keep the darker aspects of her plotline lightly leavened.  Oh...and forget about trying to out-guess the denouement; it rings utterly true to the life premises of the Vreeland menage, but it brought a surprised YES! from me when I reached it.  The silver platter here is actually solid gold reading, and like the novel itself, that taste-tempting recipe we've come to expect by way of lagniappe is a keeper!	2003-09-01
US	52987389	R386YV66QNT55Q	0345456521	233278468	No Graves as Yet: A Novel of World War I, 1st Edition	Books	5	10	15	N	N	A Brilliant and Evocative Page-Turner	It's always seemed odd to me that no one has given the 'Great War' the same kind of fictional attention that has been lavished upon World War II and the American Civil War.  Drawing from her own family records, Anne Perry proposes to remedy that deficiency.  If \\"No Graves As Yet\\" is indicative of the caliber of the four volumes still to come, this quintet may well become her masterwork.<br />We will be following the fortunes of one English family, the Reavley siblings - Joseph (our hero), Matthew, Hannah and Judith - from that last halcyon summer of 1914 thru the horrors and devastation of World War I until the Armistice is finally signed in 1918.  \\"No Graves As Yet\\" introduces these central characters in a thrilling, stand-alone story that is as tightly plotted and emotionally/intellectually challenging a mystery as any of her previous books.  When the novel opens, their parents have both been killed in an automobile accident, and their grieving children...especially Joseph, the eldest (a professor of Biblical languages at Cambridge) and Matthew, an officer in the British Intelligence Service...find themselves confronted with a peculiar puzzle.  Before his car inexplicably went off the road and crashed, Reavley senior was on his way to consult Matthew professionally (something he would not normally do) about a mysterious document that had somehow come into his possession which he claimed would disgrace the British Empire and could destroy the civilized world.  That document is nowhere to be found in the wreckage, and the 'fortuitous' car accident suddenly becomes horrifically suspect.  Subsequent events quickly convince the two brothers that unknown, powerful forces who will stop at nothing to recover the manuscript are behind their parents' deaths, thus impelling them to somehow get to it first themselves for fear of they know not what.  While storm clouds gather in Serbia after the assassination of Arch-Duke Ferdinand, Jospeth sustains another, equally personal loss: one of his most brilliant and beloved students is brutally murdered on campus.  As Matthew follows an elusive trail chasing the document, Joseph finds himself enmeshed in a criminal investigation where nothing...not friendship nor position nor avowed morality...can be taken at face value.  Inevitably the two plot threads intertwine, and the utterly logical yet brutally chilling denouement is a shocker.<br />For anyone who is as captivated by Anne Perry's writing as I am, it's easy to simply assume that the qualities which make her books so addictive will be present in anything new that she chooses to publish: exciting storytelling with a 'twist'...here, the surprising whereabouts of the document...which always leaves you thoroughly satisfied; characters whom you can genuinely care about and identify with, and vivid, evocative world-building that recreates whatever historical period she has chosen in your mind's eye as if it were here-and-now.  It's no surprise to me that \\"No Graves As Yet\\" embodied ALL of these literary nuances.  However, what stunned and delighted me about this special novel was what I can only call the utter beauty and lyricism of its style.  I don't think Ms. Perry's ever written on this level before, and some of its passages left me aching for an England-lost-to-time which I love and have loved for so long.  My only regret?  There will apparently be a year between novels, and that's TOO LONG!	2003-09-01
US	52987389	R1273RJHYI32ZM	0345447530	863760590	Done for a Dime	Books	5	10	10	N	N	A Rollercoaster Ride on the Dark Side of Police Noir	\\"The Devil's Redhead\\" brought David Corbett critical kudos and an Edgar nomination for Best First Novel, 2003.  I've read it...by me, it's a hands-down winner, and \\"Done for a Dime\\" is every bit as explosive and compelling an exploration of the darker side of noir as that debut outing was.  It's certainly equally well-written and so completely realistic as to make it abundantly clear that Mr. Corbett is a powerful new voice in suspense fiction.  Rio Mirada in Northern California is schismatically polarized: economically, racially and geographically.  Gang warfare, drug trafficking, political corruption, chicanery and greed have created a climate of violence in the Baymont area particularly which angst-ridden Detective Dennis Murchison; his bigot partner, Larry Stluka, and their fellow police can only hope to contain, not curtail.  The latest random killing finds black jazz legend, Raymond 'Strong' Carlisle, brutally gunned down in his front yard.  Cantankerous, proud and feisty, ill-health and age have forced him into an uneasy dependence upon his estranged musician son, Toby Marchand, who has a major problem explaining his fast arrival at the scene of his Dad's murder.  Trying to uncover a motive for the old man's death by unraveling the last hours of his life, Murchison learns that Carlisle had taken part in a brawl at the Zoom Room (where he'd gone to hear his son's band with Toby's white girl friend, Nadya Lazarenko), effectively endangering Toby's gig there, and also tangled with some gang members, one of whom, Arlie Thigpen, had later been spotted in the vicinity of the Carlisle home by a neighbor.  With two suspects safely in custody, what Murchison doesn't realize is that there's a wild card in this lethal deck: gangbanger-wanna-be, paranoic arsonist Manny Turpin who has been camping out in an abandoned house next door has a bone to pick with Carlisle too.  At this point, we pick up the second plot thread: Manny has become the willing pupil and dupe of conniving Richard Ferry who has entered into a sub rosa agreement with corrupt power broker Clint Bratcher to torch the entire hillside enclave...lower/middle class predominantly black homes...thus clearing the way for lucrative redevelopment projects.  Inevitably the two cases intertwine, but by the time Murchison and Stluka sort through a maze of misdirection and human duplicity, Baymonth is in flames and trapped people are dying.  As answers slowly begin to emerge from the rubble, Murchison finds himself faced with the most desperate decision of his life: how to put paid to horrific crimes and a criminal whom only street justice can touch?<br />Frankly, I'm finding it very hard myself to do appropriate justice to this brilliant book.  It reminds me so much of the music which it celebrates: there's a kind of wild power and barely contained desperation, a depth of feeling, an evocative dark splendor in the way it's developed and structured that makes Mr. Corbett's characters...their environment...their conflicts and dilemmas so achingly, utterly real.  In Carlisle's terms: this is a 'Deep Sweet' of a novel, one that is not easily forgotten and absolutely a contribution to the genre that should not be overlooked.	2003-08-05
US	52987389	RGJC1SXC3TV7Z	0345447824	628526956	Jackson Park (Cook County Mystery)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	An Exciting, Enthralling Mystery	There's an immediacy, a you-are-there quality to JACKSON PARK that makes it a truly extraordinary reading adventure.  Far more than just another 'mean-streets' narrative, this hard-hitting thriller captures the violence and tensions of post-King-assassination Chicago in stunningly realistic detail through dialogue that literally crackles with authenticity.  Its plot centers around middle-aged Woodson \\"Woody\\" and Ivy Lisle who are currently living comfortably in Hyde Park, one of Chicago's oldest integrated areas, and enjoying the company of their twenty-year-old grandniece (the story's narrator) Cassandra whom they've raised from early childhood and who is presently a student at Debs College in the Loop where she has become peripherally involved with a black militant group.  After a somewhat checkered past, Woody has achieved a solid position...almost Godfather status...in the black community while still maintaining his ties with the white political establishment.  When Clay Jackson from their old neighborhood comes to him for help after his granddaughter, Lavelle, has apparently been arrested and subsequently vanished, he agrees to make some inquiries.  On the surface, there seems to be little more to the matter than a part-time hooker who fell victim to her lifestyle until Ivy and Cassandra follow a lead of their own which uncovers a ring that somehow connects Lavelle to a decade-old murder of a white teacher by a black man.  Because the past is now no longer safely buried, the present suddenly explodes in violence.  Ivy is shot and Woody and Cassandra are attacked, costing Woody's nephew, Hero, his life.  No more Mr. Nice Guy!  Hot on the trail, Woody finds himself hamstrung by Chicago's long history of racism, venery and corruption until fate takes a hand in a clever twist of the plot that allows him to right old wrongs, put paid to some old scores and give Cassandra a new vision of her life and future.<br />Do you have to be a Chicagoan to fully appreciate allthe nuances of this compelling novel?  No!  It stands alone beautifully on its own considerable merits as an exciting, enthralling mystery.  But speaking from the POV of both having lived in Hyde Park and taught in the inner city during the Sixties, I was completely blown away by Ms. Carter's knowledgeable recreation of the people...the place...and the period.  It held me spellbound, brought back so many memories, and made me eager to read more about the lives of the Lisles.	2003-08-02
US	52987389	R29S62ZXBH9Y3C	0345441745	508002073	Death Row	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Superb  Addition to Ben Kinkaid's Case File	Erin Faulkner is a survivor.  In the harrowing preface to William Bernhardt's latest legal thriller, she survives the horrific massacre of her entire family and subsequently claims to be able to identify their masked killer by the sound of his voice.  Despite corroborating evidence that is highly circumstantial at best, her testimony damns Defense Attorney Ben Kinkaid's client, chemist Ray Goldman (one of her father's business associates), and he is sentenced to death.  Seven years later, that sentence is about to be carried out as this complex and utterly gripping story begins.  The principal players in the Faulkner tragedy including Erin assemble at the prison.  Still desperately fighting to prove his client's innocence, Ben manages to pull-off a last-minute stay of execution.  His hopes for a successful appeal rise when Erin comes to his office to confess that she had been pressured into testifying by the DA and now wants to recant her identification of Goldman.  Before she can do so, she is murdered.  Detectives Mike Morelli and Kate Baxter of the Tulsa PD catch the case.  Now Kinkaid's only chance to save Goldman's life is to work with them to establish a connection between Erin's death and those earlier killings by reexamining all of the circumstances surrounding the Faulkner murders.  With time running out and a monster on the loose, Ben's associate Christina comes to a startling conclusion that alters the entire thrust of their investigation and puts her in deadly peril before a heart-stopping turn of events allows justice to be served both inside and outside of the courtroom.<br />William Bernhardt is a superb craftsman.  He has a rare and wonderful talent for devising intricate plots and creating believable characters who consistently capture and hold his readers' attention.  It is absolutely possible to enjoy every new addition to this best-selling series as a stand-alone read, but caveat lector! following in Ben and his friends' footsteps can be addictive.  \\"Death Row\\" is an exceptionally engrossing entry in Ben's casebook, and I had a hard time putting it down.	2003-07-04
US	52987389	R81XFZT85XG1V	0345457005	11776923	Dirty Laundry (Charlotte Justice Novels)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Paula Woods is Graphic! Gritty! and GREAT!	With the city still reeling from the aftershock of the Rodney King riots, the mean streets of Los Angeles have gotten a lot meaner and more treacherous as African-American detective Charlotte Justice of the LAPD's elite Robbery-Homicide division returns to active duty after serving out a four-month suspension following a previous investigation which had ended tragically.  Three weeks away from a potentially explosive...multi-candidate...mayoral primary, LA is a powder keg of racial/political tensions that's ready to blow at the slightest provocation.  When Charlotte and her new partners, black lesbian Billie Truesdale and white 'newbie-Tec' Roger Middleton, catch their first case as a team (the cold-blooded killing of a politically-well-connected Korean-American woman whose dead body has been found bound, gagged and dumped in a Koreatown alley), it could well prove to be the high-profile spark that will destroy LAPD's last remaing shreds of credibility and set the city ablaze.  Savvy, stunning Vicki Park had been working as a campaign strategist for charismatic, former news-anchor Mike Santos who is running hard and well-ahead of the pack in his campaign to become LA's first Mexican-American mayor.  Apparently dissatisfied with the role which she's being asked to play in his race, has Vicki's discontent caused her murder?  Charlotte's investigation becomes further complicated by another death...that of a Korean detective who has been serving as her link with the community: was it an accident or was he set up? and she needs every bit of her hard-won street smarts, detective skills and self-control to work her way through a maze of false clues, misleading information and an old-boys' Department network that would like nothing better than to see her lose her badge permanently.  Inevitably, as she starts to zero in on the how's and why's of Vicki's murder, the stakes rise, and the final confrontation between Charlotte and a traitorous killer/cop had me glued to the pages until I could safely breathe again.<br />That's actually the best criteria that I have to praise Paula L. Woods as a fresh, unique and utterly absorbing new voice on the police procedural scene!  This lady can WRITE!  I came to Charlotte Justice cold, and was excited to the point where I stopped reading after only a couple of chapters (hard to do!) in order to seek out her two previous adventures first.  Yes, this novel will absolutely stand-alone, but I quickly realized that if I really wanted to be able to savor its nuances...especially those having to do with the black community: its family values and focus which are so integral to Ms. Woods' plotting...obtaining additional background material from \\"Inner City Blues\\" and \\"Stormy Weather\\" could and did make an enormous difference in my enjoyment of \\"Dirty Laundry\\".  I was especially enthralled and impressed by Ms. Woods' 'take' on Chalotte's experiences in dealing with the barbed-wire, racist/sexist climate in LAPD.  This novel rang with the fervor of I'll-tell-it-like-it-is-let-the-chips-fall-where-they-may! authenticity, and I can tell you this: whatever she chooses to write in the future, I plan to be right there with her.	2003-07-04
US	52987389	RPYUDDCNPVJNU	0345454901	905449621	Claire and Present Danger	Books	5	8	8	N	N	A Delightful Addition to a Solid Series	It's official!  Series heroine Amanda Pepper and her long-time, ex-cop lover, C.K. Mackenzie have finally decided to commit matrimony.  On top of moonlighting with C.K. as private investigators to help keep the wolf from the door while C.K. works on his PhD in criminology, now all she has to do is face up to the pressures of a new term at Philly Prep while bracing herself for a close encounter of the first kind with C. K.'s unconventional parents and pacifying her own demanding family anent her as yet up-in-the-air wedding plans.  What Amanda really doesn't need when the novel opens is the added complication of overbearing, reluctant mother-in-law-to-be Claire Fairchild who hires them to do a background check of her wealthy son Leo's enigmatic new fiancee, Emmie Cade, and suddenly winds up very dead because someone has decided to call a halt to their investigation by poisoning her.  In for a penny...Amanda doggedly tracks down Emmie's past only to discover that it's a checkered one indeed.  There seem to be way too many loose ends for her to make sense of until a clever killer makes one simple yet fatal slip.  Amanda may teach English, but she's enough of a mathematician to add up the pieces that quickly point to the real culprit in the veritable nick of time in the slam-bang finale to this thoroughly engrossing caper. <br />As always, the ex-teacher in me takes an enormous amount of pleasure in following Amanda into her classroom and watching her in action.  Ms. Roberts has crafted a thoroughly literate, utterly delightful puzzler that kept me guessing right up to the climax.  This delightful series just keeps getting better and better as new characters arrive on the scene to share Amanda and C.K.'s lives, and I'm really looking forward to spending more time with Gabby and Boy.	2003-06-06
US	52987389	R2ISKVLHTR97XF	0345440072	31030644	Seven Dials (Charlotte and Thomas Pitt)	Books	5	21	23	N	N	Anne Perry Goes Platinum	I think by this point in time it might be more appropriate to call Anne Perry's stunning Charlotte and Thomas Pitt Victorian mysteries a saga rather than a series.  Her masterful exploration of the minutiae of 19th century manners and mores not only reminds me of Galsworthy or Trollope, but her overall vision of Pitt's world has evolved into something almost epic in scope.  \\"Seven Dials\\" is an especially fascinating extension of her steadily intensifying image (most recently \\"Whitechapel Conspiracy and \\"Southhampton Row\\") of Thomas Pitt as Hero, struggling desperately and essentially alone to defend Queen and Empire against sinister political forces which seek to destroy them.  This latest, enormously complex novel begins shortly after Pitt's recent forced reassignment to the Special Branch when he is dragged from his bed at dawn and ordered to report to Victor Narraway, head of Her Majesty's Secret Service, for briefing.  Edwin Lovat, a junior diplomat, has been shot to death late at night in the garden at luxurious Eden Lodge; the owner of the weapon, its Egyptian tenant...beautiful, enigmatic Ayesha Zakhari...has been caught in the act of trying to dispose of the body, and her current paramour, senior cabinet minister Saville Ryerson, has inexplicably arrived on the scene within minutes of her apprehension.  Pitt's charge is to investigate the matter but protect Ryerson if at all possible since even a whiff of scandal could jeopardize on-going negotiations in a potentially explosive labor situation in Ryerson's Manchester district (dependent on Eqyptian cotton for its weaving industry) and might be disasterous to already fragile Anglo-Egyptian relationships.  Ryerson swears his lady is innocent; the lady refuses to say anything, and Pitt's search for the truth eventually leads him to Egypt where he uncovers horrifying evidence of a terrible atrocity linking past and present in a deadly conspiracy that, if revealed, could shake the British Empire.  Meanwhile, Charlotte and her faithful servant, Gracie, undertake an investigation of their own: an apparently small matter of Gracie's friend Tilda's missing brother.  Only Anne Perry...echoing Charles Dickens...could manipulate such diverse events so adroitly that a relatively minor subplot leads surely but inevitably to its utterly logical interconnection with the main thread of the story thereby solving both mysteries and providing a shattering conclusion to this gripping adventure.<br />As always, Anne Perry's superb plotting and vivid characterizations kept me glued to my seat until I was able to satisfy myself that, once again, the Pitts and their friends had emerged triumphant against danger and misfortune and justice had effectively been served.  I was especially pleased by Ms. Perry's delightful resolution of one plotting element...something that has been hanging fire for several books now...that brought a smile to my face as I watched it unfold.	2003-03-04
US	52987389	RG1D3GSH2CVPG	0345447964	240615849	Over His Dead Body	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Hoot-and-a-Half She-Dunnit!	It's always fun to watch an established author in one aspect of a genre tackle something different.  Best-known for her noir-ish, hard-hitting 'April Woo' procedurals, Leslie Glass's latest mystery &quot;Over His Dead Body&quot; is a hoot-and-a-half romp on the wild side of chicanery and double-dealing peopled by a veritable smorgasbord of off-the-wall characters who become involved in an utterly bizarre series of events.  Its suburban-housewife heroine, aptly-named Cassandra Sales, is frumpy, frustrated and fifty.  Her twenty-six-year marriage to her work/money-obsessed, largely-absentee husband Mitchell Sales (a highly successful wine dealer with a penchant for scamming the IRS) has gone so sour that she can't remember the last time they made love, and her decidedly unlovable, constantly-bickering adult children seem like aliens from another planet.  Since she apparently can't change her environment, Cassie decides to start with herself.  Taking advantage of Mitch's extended absence on a European business trip, she has a facelift.  While she's still in its Grand Guignol recovery stages, Mitch comes home unexpectedly, takes one look at her and drops like a stone.  He winds up in a coma and diagnosed as brain-dead in the hospital, and Cassie is suddenly on her own.  Trying to get a handle on Mitch's business affairs turns her world upside down.  The deeper she digs, the nastier things get.  Not only has her husband been cheating on her for years (aided and abetted by their lawyer, their accountant, their family doctor and various members of the firm including her own son) with his stunning, amoral 'business associate', Mona Whitman, but, between them, they have squandered huge sums of money on a lifestyle for Mona (all charged under Cassie's name) which is as different from her own simpler realities as chalk from cheese.  To further complicate matters, the IRS in the person of Special Agent Charlie Schwab is taking a strong interest in what he believes to be 'her' concealed assets as part of an overall audit of Mitch's affairs.  When she ultimately discovers that Mitch was planning to divorce her and keep his millions for himself and Mona, Cassie goes on the warpath.  And the tables don't just turn, they rotate.  <br />&quot;Over His Dead Body&quot; is a delightfully-orchestrated riot of a novel that puts the fun back into dysfunctional.  Just when you think things can't possibly get any crazier, Ms. Glass adds another twist to her intricate scenario, and we're off and running.  Once they get their act together, Cassie and Charlie remind me a little of Nick and Nora Charles, and their tongue-in-cheek sparring not only provides a touch of wit and humor in Cassie's otherwise thoroughly dire predicament, but also adds a whole new dimension to the phrase, &quot;Revenge is a dish best served cold&quot;.  By me, &quot;Over His Dead Body&quot; made mighty tasty eating.	2003-03-04
US	52987389	R2SB2OXSDOHPSK	0345458486	109136189	Death in the Family	Books	5	10	11	N	N	Smashing New Entry in a Solid Series	One of the things that always amazes and delights me about Jill McGown's wonderful DCIs Hill and Lloyd British procedurals is their completely baffling, yet utterly flawless structure.  Her intricate plots move at a breath-taking pace towards what seems like a wholly logical denouement and then suddenly your jaw drops because her solution to the crime in question...utterly reasonable once you put the right pieces together...is not at all what you (or, quite frequently, her characters) had anticipated.  That is certainly the case with appropriately-titled \\"Death in the Family\\". Judy and Lloyd's wedding plans have been temporarily shelved due to the early arrival of their daughter, Charlotte Frances.  However, while they are happily adjusting to their new status as a family, elsewhere in Stansfield, families are being shattered left and right with deadly consequences.  Self-centered, well-to-do Lesley Newton has no particular qualms about breaking up Ian and Theresa Waring's marriage so that she and Ian can marry and emigrate to Australia, taking her adopted daughter from her first marriage...rebellious, troubled, thirteen-year-old Kayleigh Scott...with them.  Her blithe disregard for anything but her own desires infuriates her former husband, Kayleigh's devoted stepfather, Phil Rodham, and also impels Kayleigh (since her mother has arbitrarily separated her from her best and only friend) into a sexual entanglement with petty criminal, Dean Fletcher, that leaves her pregnant and him arrested and jailed as a pedophile.  All of which and more eventually add up to sufficient grounds for Lloyd to call it murder when Lesley's dead body is discovered at the Waring's country cottage shortly after Fletcher's release.  As he pursues his investigation, Judy - still on maternity leave - inadvertently gets unofficially caught up in one of her own: while walking Charlotte in the park, she hears terrified screams.  A teenage nanny has made a quick trip back to the car park leavingher charge alone, and the baby has disappeared.  Inevitably, Judy's desparate need to find the kidnapper in time to save the baby becomes part and parcel of Lloyd's search for an elusive killer.  The pieces start to come together...suspects are jailed...then Judy makes a startling discovery, and all bets are off.  The real truth behind Lesley Newton's murder is a shocker.<br />I understand that plotting is paramount in the mystery genre, but I especially love reading novels that not only weave a compelling story, but also allow room for me to get thoroughly involved with the every day lives of their protagonists.  Judy Hill and hitherto nameless Lloyd are so lovingly-drawn that it's a rare and genuine pleasure to spend time with them.  Jill McGown never disappoints me.  I think \\"Death in the Family\\" is the strongest entry to date in this rock-solid series, and I found it almost impossible to put down.	2003-02-17
US	52987389	R10Q3D4TJLJX6Y	044900709X	391368784	Malice Downstream (Erskine Powell, Book 5)	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Anglophile's Delight!	With his estranged wife on sabbatical in Canada and himself very much at loose ends (still recovering from a leg injury that he sustained during his last investigation), Detective-Chief Superintendent Erskine Powell agrees that a vacation in rural Hampshire with a few day's fly-fishing under close to idyllic conditions might be just what the doctor ordered as a morale-booster.  Therefore, he's more than happy to accept when his old Cambridge roommate, Jim Hardy, calls out-of-the-blue and invites him to visit his bed and breakfast in picturesque Houghton Bridge on the River Test, home base for the Mayfly Club...the world's oldest and most exclusive fishing club...whose by-invitation-only membership changes only with the death of a current member.  Powell's arrival on the scene coincides with an opening in the Club's roster, but the three candidates in contention quickly become two when Richard Garrett, a controversial young man whom the village holds responsible for the suicide of pregnant local beauty, Maggie Stewart, seven years earlier, is found murdered in a downstream weir.  His plans for a care-free vacation curtailed by the official investigation, Erskine decides to take a busman's holiday and quietly conduct his own unofficial one, but, by doing so, he also puts his own career in jeopardy since the essentially clueless local authorities clearly do not welcome his interference.  As is always true in Graham Thomas' novels, there are a plethora of fascinatingly viable suspects with motives aplenty, and the more he involves himself in the affair, the more he realizes that the placid surface of the village like the river that surrounds it can conceal deep and deadly currents.  When he finally makes his cast, the killer rises to the bait only to slip the hook until fate takes a hand through a clever twist in the plot which, in the best tradition of classic British thrillers, allows appropriate justice to be meted out and Erskine to move on to new possibilities in his life.<br />I'm an Anglophile down to my fingertips and love British procedurals.  For me, Graham Thomas' beautifully-crafted novels are almost as good as actually being wherever he chooses to set them.  In addition to being simply a crackerjack of a good mystery and an utterly grand read that allowed one of my favorite sleuths plenty of scope to exercise his deductive talents, \\"Malice Downstream\\" captured the essence of rural England in loving detail and served as a delightful introduction to the mystique behind the sport of fly-fishing.  I can hardly wait for the next book in this wonderfully satisfying series which I devoutly hope will again include spunky Jemma Walker among its cast of characters.  She has the potential to brighten Erskine's life almost as much as she did mine.	2002-12-03
US	52987389	R14IJ0BAFCNQ4P	0345433092	870440752	The Eighth Day	Books	5	2	3	N	N	A Walk on the Wild Side of Nanotechnology	It take a very special and unique kind of mindset, I think, to anticipate a literary trend and create speculative fiction that's on the cutting edge of tomorrow's headlines before the concept itself becomes passe from overexposure.  By me, that's one of John Case's fortes.  Having successfully broken new ground in bio-technical medical thrillers with \\"Genesis Code\\", he subsequently turned his attention to spine-tingling Armageddon theses in \\"The First Horseman\\" and \\"The Syndrome\\", and now \\"The Eighth Day\\" offers his fans possibly his most exciting and fully-realized adventure to date: a far-ranging walk on the wild side of nanotechnology and intrigue where, once again, he tests his hero to his utmost limits and lets us have the fun of watching the bad guys get their comeuppance in an oh-my-gosh-he's-actually-gonna-pull-it-off! denouement.  On the way to getting to that point, however, his hero Danny Cray is in big trouble.  He's your Hitchcockian innocent caught up in a game plan he doesn't understand that has suddenly turned lethal.  An artist and part-time private investigator, Danny initially accepts what looks like a fairly simple assignment from wealthy lawyer Jude Belzer: for a sizeable fee (which he needs badly), an unlimited expense account and first class accommodations all the way, he is to track down the European source and then do damage control on rumors that are maligning the reputation of Jude's client, a mysterious billionaire.  \\"Things are not always as they seem/skim milk masquerades as cream\\" abruptly becomes Danny's modus vivandi because the more he probes into the situation, the more nothing checks out as it should.  Suddenly, with his life in ruins, he's on the run himself in a desperate game of international cat-and-mouse trying to keep just one painful...very! as his encounter with some Greek thugs graphically evinces...step ahead of an amoral, ruthless killer who, having successfully perpetrated sacrilegious fraud against an ancient and powerful cult to gain access to their treasury, will now stop at nothing to maintain the deception and thereby achieve world domination.  Once Danny decides to fight back, it's impossible to put the book down.<br />It's also extremely difficult not to make this utterly engrossing and compelling thriller a one-sitting read.  John Case has an amazing talent for devising whitewater scenarios that inevitably and immediately engulf both his characters and his readers in a veritable maelstrom of suspense and hairbreath escapism set against exotic yet intensely realistic backgrounds.  Possibly because his central characters are so thoroughly viable and believeable, it also becomes extremely easy \\"to believe six impossible things before breakfast\\" and accept his premises about their motivations and behaviors without question or doubt.	2002-12-02
US	52987389	R17Z15T1N0VJNB	0345444892	646331214	Murder at Ford's Theatre (Capital Crimes)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Delightful Addition to a Solid Series!	After a seventeen-novel run, you might think that Margaret Truman must have pretty well exhausted the possibilities for murder and mayhem on the Washington scene, but with \\"Murder at Ford's Theatre\\", she has found yet another fascinating new venue to explore in her popular 'Capital Crimes' series.  Her real life premise?  Restored to its original Civil War Era splendor and maintained by the National Park Service as an historic site, today Ford's is also a state-of-the-art, working theater run by the non-governmental Ford's Theatre Society.  Fictional charismatic Clarise Emerson: former Hollywood TV producer, ex-wife of playboy Senator Bruce Lerner and presently a nominee for the Chairmanship of NEA is currently its producing director, but...aided by her new comptroller, Bernard Crowly...her primary concern is fund-raising and public relations, so she delegates the actual production mounting tasks to her staff of trained professionals including former Shakespearean matinee idol, Sydney Bancroft.  When Sydney is a no-show at an early morning tech staff meeting, real life drama abruptly intrudes into Ford's make-believe world as a stagehand going out for a smoke stumbles over the badly beaten dead body of alluring volunteer intern, Nadia Zarinski.  Seasoned police officers Rick Klayman and Mo Johnson 'catch' the case.  As they pursue their investigation, among other confusing pieces of conflicting evidence, they uncover a romantic relationship between Nadia and Senator Lerner as well as one with his and Clarise's son, Jeremiah.  After Jeremiah is arrested and charged with her murder, Clarise asks Lincoln scholar, legal expert and law professor Mac Smith and his wife Annabel...her close friends...to come to his rescue.  In the novel's exciting denouement, their insiders' take on the tangled emotional environment at Ford's helps winnow out the real killer during a Gala evening at the Theatre while, on-stage, history almost repeats itself in a chilling tour de force performance by a madman.<br />Margaret Truman has such a marvelous flair for capturing the minutiae of Washington's history as integral addenda to her thoroughly engrossing mysteries.  She successfully combines a solidly-crafted police procedural format with completely believable characterizations and plenty of fast action to always provide an extremely pleasurable reading experience.  I was especially interested in the material that I found here about the Theatre itself as well as Abraham Lincoln which made \\"Murder at Ford's Theatre\\" a thoroughly enjoyable read for me.	2002-11-21
US	52987389	R2DMXCN2LHEWQH	0345452364	914196507	The Edge of Doom	Books	5	5	7	N	N	Vintage Cross...a Literary Thriller  to Savor	Those of us who are fans of this bibliophile's dream of a series remember that amateur detective Kate Fansler played a more or less peripheral role in Amanda Cross' last novel, \\"Honest Doubt\\", which precipitated her new heroine, feisty PI Estelle 'Woody' Woodhaven, head first (and over her head without Kate's help) into murder in academia.  Hopefully, we have not seen the last of Woody, but what a joy it is to have Kate take center stage again in \\"The Edge of Doom\\".  As Kate well might put it about her Cross progenitor, \\"Age cannot wither her, nor custom stale her infinite variety.\\"  With her usual panache, she has presented Kate with a fascinating and almost diabolical problem: a possible case of mistaken identity...her own.  Kate, as the youngest Fansler child, has always felt herself something of a changeling in the family structure, alienated from their stuffy conventionalism by her own far more liberal attitudes, behaviors and beliefs.  However, when her oldest brother Lawrence brings her the startling news that she may not legitimately be a Fansler at all; that one Jason E. Smith had appeared in his office out of the blue claiming that Kate was the result of a love affair that he had had with their mother well over fifty years ago, obviously Kate and her attorney husband Reed have to take some action, but what?  Meet him?  Ignore him?  After DNA testing confirms Smith's claim, it opens a veritable Pandora's box of possibilities and questions.  Who is Smith really?  What does he want?  Why has he suddenly chosen to appear in Kate's life?  And, most importantly, why does he equally suddenly and mysteriously choose to disappear?  Following much confusion worse confounded (and from her POV confounded confusion!)coupled with a hair-breath encounter with a killer, Kate is finally able to make sense out of a convoluted pattern of decades-old crimes and misdemeanors, lay her own ghosts happily to rest and eventually resolve matters in such a way that even the stuffy Fanslers can find at least tolerably acceptable.  <br />There is so much pleasure built-in to sharing Kate's world: characters who come insistently to life, precise plotting that moves briskly and intriguingly from event to event, and, above all, a literary style that has delighted me for over thirty years.  Amanda Cross paints verbal pictures that linger in my mind, and she reminds me with every paragraph that conversation is indeed an art and not a lost one so long as she, Kate and Reed are around to keep it flowing.  \\"The Edge of Doom\\" is a warm and witty novel to be savored...I certainly did.	2002-11-18
US	52987389	RIG5PGU9CYVQO	0345449711	63189990	Blues in the Night	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Molly Has Me Hooked!	Fans of Rochelle Krich's previous thrillers already know what a marvelous talent she has for extracting the ultimate in chills and suspense out of what at first glance might appear to be the most ordinary of events, but her latest novel \\"Blues in the Night\\" takes a slightly more bizarre approach to murder: as her spunky new series heroine, writer/freelance reporter Molly Blume, puts it, \\"It was the nightgown that hooked me!\\"  And Ms. Krich and Molly have me hooked! Molly's job at \\"Crime Sheet\\" involves reporting daily crimes in the LA area in digest form for her readers; her insatiable curiosity about the how's and why's of the darker aspects of human behaviors fuels the longer, more detailed true crime books which she also publishes (under an assumed name for her own protection).  When an unidentified woman...clad only in a flimsy nightgown...is found fatally injured late at night high up on Mulholland Drive, the apparent victim of a hit-and-run accident, Molly wants to know why.  Once she tracks Lenore Saunders to her bedside in the intensive care unit, their tantalizingly brief conversation leaves her with just three names and a plethora of unanswered questions.  As she gradually puts faces to those names, Molly finds herself increasingly involved in the tragic events of Lenore's past.  Because she refuses to believe that her initial sympathy for a fearful and deeply troubled woman has been completely misplaced, Molly is determined to uncover an underlying rationale for murder...murder which her instincts tell her must have its roots in human dysfunctionality and blackmail.  Another sudden death provides shocking confirmation of her theories and leads her to the terrible truth about why Lenore had to die...a truth which also puts her own life in danger before she can write '30-' to her investigation.<br />Novels that I find truly memorable...those rare reads which I savor and treasure...are books that successfully combine rock-solid story-telling with charismaticcharacterizations in an atmosphere or environment that is either unfamiliar to me or somewhat different from what I tend to think of as run-of-the-mill genric backgrounds.  \\"Blues in the Night\\" was absolutely this kind of thriller.  Rochelle Krich has chosen to place Molly (her family and friends) within an Orthodox Judaic framework, and that decision on her part added enormously to my pleasure in the novel as a whole.  It gave me an entre into as well as an opportunity to relish a world that is not my own.  \\"What's not to like?\\"  Molly is a MENSCH!  More please!	2002-10-03
US	52987389	R1EINMV7INJ80R	0345440056	382624042	Death of a Stranger	Books	5	38	38	N	N	A Series Milestone!	I don't believe Anne Perry could write a bad book if you <smile> put a derringer to her head, but William and Hester Monk's latest case \\"Death of a Stranger\\" is definitely a series milestone and a solid gold reading experience.  After their return from America, William has resumed his private investigative practice while Hester is donating her time and nursing expertise at a clinic in Coldbath Square which her friend Callandra Daviot has established to provide medical care for women of the streets.  When a wealthy railroad magnate is found brutally murdered in a squalid brothel in that area, suspicion falls on the women whom Hester is trying to help.  Attempting to prove their innocence, she stumbles upon a plot to force gently-bred women into usurious debt and prostitution and resolves with or without Monk's assistance to put a stop to <BR>it.  Naturally, she needs some help, so she turns to series regular, Sir Oliver Rathbone, with fascinating results.  Meanwhile Monk has acquired a new client: Katrina Harcus, a beautiful and enigmatic woman who is concerned that her fiance, a trusted employee of the murdered man, may be involved in some kind of fraud in connection with a new and highly secret railroad project that the company is presently undertaking.  When Monk agrees to handle her case and looks over the relevant papers that she has brought him, they evoke tragic echoes from his own past which start to shake him loose from his amnestic fog.  Inevitably his and Hester/Rathbone's separate investigations intertwine, and another shocking death pulls the triumvirate deeper and deeper into the terrible implications of old horrors that suddenly threaten to become life-endangering present realities.  The final pages of this brilliant piece of Victoriana held me completely spellbound.<br />Anne Perry is utterly addictive.  I truly envy readers who encounter her chosen milieu for the first time because they have so many wonderful adventures yet to explore.  Fortunately for those of us who absolutely require a regular Pitt/Monk 'fix', Ms. Perry's fertile imagination coupled with a prolific pen  keeps devising newer and increasingly intricate, psychologically-fraught investigations for each of her two detective couples to pursue, and the wait between novels is never unbearably long.  Her books just keep getting better and better, but \\"Death of a Stranger\\" is an especially satisfying and rich reward for our patience.	2002-10-03
US	52987389	R6655B7H8XU3N	0345447913	112373438	The Alpine Obituary (An Emma Lord Mystery)	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Viva!  Emma and Vida!	In an always powerful series, I think the \\"Alpine Obituary\\" is quite possibly Mary Daheim's most complex novel to date.  She's incorporated a number of historical flashbacks into her text which worked extremely well for me and added both depth and dimension to her here-and-now plotline.  When the book begins, the dreary, dog days of August seem to have extended into September, and Emma Lord, Editor-Publisher of the Advocate, is feeling overwhelmed by the frustration of having to scrape up enough 'new' news to fill her editions and stay even with her arch-rival and competitor, radio station KSKY owner, Spencer Fleetwood.  Adding to her emotional malaise is the fact that she is still mourning the tragic death of her long-time lover, Tom Cavanaugh, and worrying about their son Adam, who has just accepted his first Parrish assignment in the wilds of the Alaskan outback.  Preoccupied with past horrors and her own miseries, she finds it hard to work up either outrage or amusement when an oddball obituary for recently-deceased Alpine resident Jack Froland floats across her desk, and she is not at all receptive when Marsha Foster-Klein...the local judge who sent Tom's killer to prison...asks her to try and find out who's behind an anonymous letter with an enigmatic photo attached that threatens to expose Marsha's 'dark secret' unless she immediately withdraws her candidacy for a plum appointment to the Court of Appeals.  However, because the photograph piques her interest and Marsha is willing to let her involve her old friend, the Advocate's indefatigable super-snoop, House & Home editor Vida Runkel in her sleuthing, Emma finally agrees to look into the matter.  Drawing on Vida's encyclopedic knowledge of the community's history, they not only ferret out the blackmailer, but uncover some sad and startling connections between the Foster-Klein and Froland families...extending as far back as pre-WWI Alpine...that become all the more disturbing once the present intrudes itselfinto their investigation in the form of Widow Froland crying murder and a flash fire in a nearby forest that turns up a corpse together with evidence of arson.  Somewhere in all this mass of conflicting data, Emma reasons, there must be a common link.  Finding it takes her from no news to almost more news than she and Vida can handle as the action intensifies to its cliff-hanger conclusion when Emma makes a last, devastating discovery that provides an amazing answer to everyone's questions and finally allows the dead past to RIP.<br />One of the things that always delights me whenever I begin a new Alpine mystery is just how easy...and how pleasurable...it is to re-immerse myself in Emma Lord's world.  Mary Daheim has such a marvelous flair for making her on-going characters so immediately accessible and appealing that even if you haven't read any of her other books, it still feels as if you are coming home.  However, I thought one of the especially outstanding features of Emma's latest adventure was the new light that it shed on so many old, familiar faces.  There were also some marvelous, almost O'Henry-like twists to this particular plot that heightened my overall enjoyment of the novel and made me extremely eager to find out what will happen next in Emma's life.  Maybe we could follow her to Rome on an Alpine Pilgrimage?	2002-09-19
US	52987389	R2F39XXVSU1G9Y	0345441737	733035158	Criminal Intent	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Solid Writing Marred by an Ambiguous Premise!	William Bernhardt is a past master at successfully turning red-hot issues into fictional pyrotechnics.  As a long-time fan, I am pretty thoroughly convinced that his latest Ben Kinkaid legal thriller is probably the darkest and quite possibly the best-written novel to date in this incredibly solid series.  Ben always allies himself absolutely with his clients, but Father Daniel Beale is a voice out of his past: a political-activist Episcopal priest who served as role model, mentor and friend during his unhappy childhood.  Now Father Beale is in desperate trouble.  Called to St. Benedict's in Ben's own Parrish, he has polarized the small church with his radical theories and practices, outraging the predominantly ultra-conservative members of his congregation.  When Helen Conrad, a prominent member of the vestry, is found brutally murdered in the churchyard, although the police haven't enough evidence to charge him directly, even the suspicion of murder is final straw enough to bring him before an ecclesiastical court charged with 'conduct unbecoming a priest'.  Ben manages to talk him out of that one, but then the murderer strikes again...and again...thereby enmeshing Father Beale in a web of  circumstantial evidence from which there appears to be no escape.  Now facing a civil court on a charge of murder one, Ben desperately battles for Father Beale's life against increasingly lengthening odds.  The only hope seems to be for Ben and his colleagues to identify the real killer in time to prevent a terrible miscarriage of justice.  Bernhardt's denouement?  The stuff that nightmares are made of...incredible but factual...and drawn from real life.<br />William Bernhardt is asking a lot from his readers with this novel.  I believe that \\"Criminal Intent\\" is a brilliantly written book.  It is a genuine thriller: a multi-faceted roller coaster ride of a read in terms of hard-hitting suspense and the almost unbearable human tensions implicit to the central characters' need toface and deal with bloody and brutal events which shock and appall all the more once their perpetrators are revealed.  Speaking as objectively as I can, I admire Mr. Bernhardt's courage in tackling the diverse moral issues that concern his characters here and applaud the skill with which he develops some extremely ambiguous points of view reasonably and logically.  However, although Ben seemed to come to terms with their complexities, I found myself genuinely repelled by much of what I was reading as well as extremely skeptical about one of this author's major plot premises: the plausibility of an aberrant behavioral pattern that Father Beale had apparently successfully imposed upon his congregation over a period of time.  My inability to \\"willingly suspend (my) disbelief\\" and cope with what I can only see as an irreconcilable good priest/bad priest dicotomy marred much of the pleasure that I usually take from sharing Ben's world and regretfully made me wish on the whole that I'd ever decided to go there at all.	2002-09-19
US	52987389	R2Q5CG5BVBPPVN	0345439384	950204338	The Tutor	Books	5	13	13	N	N	The Dark Side of the Teaching Force!	Like Stephen King, Peter Abrahams has the literary skill and imagination to tap into our worst nightmares and bring them chillingly to life.  His special forte seems to lie in exploring the nature of obsession: the monster that lurks beneath a mask of normalcy until circumstances suddenly combine to put its prey within reach.  Julian Sawyer, THE TUTOR, is a man obsessed with a meglomaniacal desire to create a living novel out of the raw material of ordinary people's lives...to first learn their secrets and then exploit them at his will in order to destroy them.  The Gardner family is his chosen target.  Scott and Linda are doing their best to achieve today's upper-middle class dream of 'having it all', but their sand-castle world is a sadly dysfunctional one.  Scott, desperately competing with his more effectual brother, has never been able to achieve the quick-fix financial success that he craves; Linda is career-driven to the point where she has become oblivious to what's going on with her children, and both teen-age Brandon and his precocious eleven-year-old sister Ruby are in trouble.  That trouble becomes grim reality for his shocked parents when Brandon's SAT results are far below their expectations, although only Ruby...escaping parental pressures to become what she is not into a dream world with her idol, Sherlock Holmes...realizes the full extent of his rebellious, anti-social behaviors.  In desperation, Linda calls a tutoring service, and Julian Sawyer enters their lives.  In the tradition of &quot;Kind Lady&quot; and &quot;Night Must Fall&quot;, he slowly gains their confidence and trust which, in turn, also exposes their fears and weaknesses.  When circumstances combine to place Julian in charge, the stage is set for an increasingly horrific series of life-threatening confrontations that beggar description.<br />THE TUTOR walks an extraordinary stylistic tightrope between spine-tingling suspense and dark horror...a tour de force combination of taut plotting and brilliant characterization that captured and held me spellbound.  Peter Abrahams careful attention to the 'whys' of their behaviors made me not only understand the Gardners as fallible human beings, but care deeply about them, especially young Ruby who is probably one of the most enchanting fictional children that I've encountered in my recent reading.  His talent makes the bizarre seem believable, and I found it impossible not to accept the complete plausibility of his nightmarish premise.  This is not an easy novel to read, but it is one that the reader will not readily forget...a totally gripping literary experience and a benchmark for the genre.	2002-06-28
US	52987389	R29KSGIRHX04GK	0345445899	287961022	Vertical Burn	Books	5	5	5	N	N	A Milestone in You-Are-THERE! Suspense!	If there can be a literary equivalent to cinema verite, no one is better qualified than Earl Emerson to immerse his readers in the life and death realities of the world of professional firefighting. In VERTICAL BURN, Emerson, a twenty-four year veteran of the Seattle Fire Department, gives us a graphic and gritty, warts-and-all, microcosmic vision of that world...its daily routines, terrible stresses, moments of glory and terror...as seen through the eyes of his hero, John Finney, who has dedicated his own life and honor to his profession only to find himself at the mercy of a political/criminal cabal that threatens the one and would tarnish the other.  Branded a coward and denied promotion after the (to him) inexplicable death of his long-time friend and partner in a questionable fire and sensing a cover-up, Finney starts his own investigation into its circumstances and uncovers evidence of a horrifying pattern of arson for profit being executed with diabolic ingenuity, apparently aided and abetted from within the department itself.  Talk about smoke and mirrors!  No one except his fellow firefighter Diana Moore is willing to take him seriously when he predicts that there will be more fires, and when his worst fears are realized, he is again demonized by the political powers-that-be as a glory-seeker and an arsonist.  Helpless to prevent the initiation of the arsonists' final scenario, his focus narrows to putting his own life on the line to save those of hundreds as the novel culminates in a stunning confrontation between deadly treachery and death-defying heroism high in the skies above Seattle.<br />VERTICAL BURN is the ultimate in you-are-there suspense fiction.  Although its premise seems almost unbelievably horrific in the abstract, Mr. Emerson's skillful craftsmanship...his superb pacing and vivid characterizations...quickly caught me up in the story that he had to tell and made me completely willing to suspend my own disbelief that such things actually could be and simply accept as real his world wherein they well might and apparently do happen.  Especially set in juxtaposition to the events of 9/11, I found living in that world an immensely moving and enormously satisfying reading experience.	2002-06-02
US	52987389	R2MPTE7VQ8UKXW	0449007200	960375188	Give the Dog a Bone (Allie Babcock, Book 3)	Books	5	10	12	N	N	Move Over, Barbara Woodhouse!	In addition to rock-solid plotting with an always-involving premise, Leslie O'Kane has a rare talent for creating delightfully feisty heroines whose unusual occupations provide additional dimension and interest to her novels. It's always a pleasure to share freelance fax/greeting card designer Molly Masters' world, but when Ms. O'Kane introduced canine therapist Allida 'Allie' Babcock in PLAY DEAD, this dog-lover found herself completely caught-up in the technicalities of behavioral modification that Allie employs during the course of her investigations and loving every minute of the time that we were spending together. <br />Allie's third adventure in crime GIVE THE DOG A BONE may well be her most intriguing and complex outing to date. Off to a rather rocky start, her consulting business is finally solidly in the black; her somewhat up-and-downish relationship with her dogaphobic office-mate Russell seems to be working itself out nicely, and her datebook of problem pooches is satisfyingly full. However, when eccentric millionaire Ken Culberson and his charming but utterly undisciplined golden retriever Maggie arrive in her office, she finds herself trying to cope with \\"six impossible things before breakfast\\". Ken is absolutely convinced(encouraged by an unscrupulous psychic)that Maggie's misbehaviors are occuring because she is possessed by his dead ex-wife Mary whom he's equally convinced that he's killed, albeit by accident. A threat that Maggie's running wild in his trailer park may lead to her incarceration by the Animal Control League achieves what neither his psychiatrist nor his social worker have been able to accomplish and brings him to Allie, begging for help. Dubious about Ken's sanity but a [turkey] for a dog in obvious trouble, Allie agrees to make a site visit where she discovers that the bones that Maggie's been gleefully draging home recently probably aren't animal bones and calls the police. Before he's taken to the station to discuss the matter, Ken asks Allie to assume temporary charge of Maggie and emends his will (which names Maggie as sole heir to his millions) making Allie her legal guardian. While the police are still investigating the matter, Ken is released and then murdered. Suddenly Allie is confronted with a plethora of equally unsavory claimants to Maggie's paw and fortune...one of whom is probably Ken's killer. Finding out which puts her own life on the line in the chilling denouement to this thoroughly satisfying, delightfully whimsical whodunnit.	2002-04-29
US	52987389	R3MA7LA0NZ4VSS	0345449622	66515407	Final Round	Books	5	8	18	N	N	Another Hole-in-One for Bernhardt!	William Bernhardt has a positive genius for creating iconoclastic heroes whose endearing quirks put the reader firmly on their side from the git-go.  His latest thriller, FINAL ROUND, introduces maverick golf pro, Connor Cross, going head-to-head with the prestigious but ultra-stuffy Augusta National Golf Club after he has barely managed to qualify for the Masters tournament.  Despite the best efforts of his long-time friend and mentor, fellow golfer John McCree, and his veteran caddie Fitz to get him to shape up and produce the kind of golf he's capable of playing, bull-in-the-china-shop Connor is within an inch of being bounced off the premises for outrageous behavior before the contest even begins until the competition takes a deadly turn.  The night before the first tee-off, Connor finds John's body buried in a sandtrap.  He's been bludgeoned to death with Connor's nine-iron, and the fun and games suddenly come to an abrupt halt.  Not only course Management, but the Augusta cops are desperate for a quick conviction with no scandal attached to the Tournament, and Connor is their prime suspect.  The only way he can change their minds and avenge his buddy is to find the killer himself.  Although attractive policewoman Nikki O'Brien is willing to give him the benefit of the doubt, convinced that one of his fellow golfers is the real culprit, Connor has to play the game of his life in order to stay on the scene long enough to ferret him out.  As the field dwindles to the final cut, the body count mounts until Connor works out what's par for the corpse and gets his man in a delightfully appropriate denouement.<br />Anyone who thinks that it will be easy to put this marvelous mixture of mirth and mayhem down before that point is reached should probably think again.  Bernhardt's ability to combine fast-paced thrills with strong characterization and an intriguing, knowlegeable take on the lore and intricacies of professional golf made FINAL ROUND a one-sitting read for me...and one which I thoroughly enjoyed.  Connor and Fitz!  Bravo! Encore!	2002-03-27
US	52987389	R1ACWSQ6TUHR6E	0345426266	955062554	The Analyst	Books	5	11	14	N	N	Cat-and-Mouse Thriller with a Twist!	One of the things that I enjoy most about John Katzenbach's novels is that he consistently takes the what-if principle of story-telling to its ultimate limits without ever violating his readers' need to accept and believe in the logical probability of whatever human situation he has chosen to explore.  THE ANALYST is certainly case-in-point.  Here he is asking what-if? an inherently good if rather conventional man, Dr. Frederick Starks...a thoroughly competent, much-revered New York psychoanalyst...has inadvertantly harmed a patient during the course of his long and distinguished career.  What if? that patient has now decided to seek revenge long after the fact by destroying everything that Starks holds dear?  Could this actually happen?  John Katzenbach shows us in chilling detail that such ruination is indeed not only probable, but possible, and the reader becomes completely caught up in a quicksand world of shadows where nothing seems too farfetched to be true, sharing Starks' increasingly desperate need-to-know how and why his life is suddenly crumbling around him and then DO! something about it.  The choices which he makes when he decides to act instead of react are utterly riveting.<br />This wonderfully intricate thriller worked extremely well for me on several levels.  Since its plot premise is so highly melodramatic, I really needed to be able to accept the down-to-earth reality of both Dr. Starks and his antagonist.  Well, vivid characterization is one of Mr. Katzenbach's fortes; central or peripheral, his people are alive!  Also, since the web of entrapment is so very convoluted, taut, hell-for-leather pacing was another absolutely crucial 'must' for me.  Again...kudos! Mr. Katzenbach.  This diabolic game of cat-and-mouse is perfectly devised and structured to grab the reader from the outset and keep him glued to his chair until its ironic yet oh-so-thoroughly satisfying denouement.  Long and short...chalk up another genric bullseye for John Katzenbach, and oh! what a great movie it could be!	2002-01-29
US	52987389	R1IHIP5MI5N19R	0345437683	669099405	Natural Suspect	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Natural Suspect...a natural wonder!	NATURAL SUSPECT is a roller coaster ride on the noir side which alternately keeps you glued to your chair while its amazingly cohesive plot unreels and hanging on for dear life to keep from rolling on the floor with laughter.  Mavened by master of suspense William Bernhardt, this delightful whodunnit-and-why? thriller combines his own talents with those of eleven other top writers in the genre round-robin fashion...each in turn adding hir own unique touch to whatever has gone before...and moves hilariously from twist to turn as we follow the trail of a cunning killer down one blind alley after another to the novel's absolutely logical denouement.  There's simply no way to capsulize the plotline since what Bernhardt begins as a dysfunctional family saga...mega-millionaire Daddy Hightower, after threatening to disinherit his entire wacky family, has been found dead in the deep freeze...speedily develops a life of its own as a hoot-and-a-half pastiche where all the gimmicks and stock characters appropriate to the genre (from the hard-boiled gumshoe to amateur-detective-wins-out with overtones of international espionage plus Hitchcock's classic McGuffin in the form of a rabbit) are brilliantly satirized, limited only by the imaginations of the individual writers and the reader's willingness to accept their premises.  What fun! its authors must have had playing Can-You-Top-This? and their pleasure is thoroughly contagious.  As a reader, I found myself mentally rubbing my hands in glee to see what would/could happen next under the now-given circumstances.  What is perhaps most unusual of all about this surprisingly compelling exercise in suspense is just how well the whole story hangs together without ever violating our willingness to suspend disbelief.  These folks really know their business, and I'd call NATURAL SUSPECT a &quot;natural&quot; wonder and a definite must-read for fans of the genre.	2001-12-01
US	52987389	RCKVPKHW3ZFG4	0345446976	693427296	24/7	Books	5	13	16	N	N	Game Show Scenario Turns Deadly Real!	To my knowledge, broadcast-journalist Jim Brown is the first person to adapt the current rage for Reality TV into fictional form.  His debut novel is not only a thematic trail-blazer, but an imaginatively-conceived, utterly chilling expose of the darker, more appalling side of America's obsession with vicarious thrills and violence.  Its plotting and pacing are truly extraordinary; its characters, unforgettable; and its writing...absolutely first-rate!<br />Loosely based around the overall concept of the &quot;Survivor&quot; TV phenomenon, he has envisioned a scenario wherein the game situation suddenly becomes a life-or-death reality for its twelve players after a madman seizes 'Control' of their isolated island location while the TV cameras continue to operate 24/7.  As the world watches in horror, the sponsoring network's entire technical staff is wiped out by an Ebola-type virus, and the contestants themselves are infected with a delayed version of the same deadly disease.  The only way that they can stay alive is to receive a daily injection of a life-prolonging antidote.  Control's dictum: that one-by-one decision shall rest entirely in the hands and votes of the viewing public.  What immediately evolves into a frantic race against time and popular opinion for his protagonists is further complicated by an unusually effective twist in the plot (which also paves the way for its shocking denouement): if they can successfully accomplish a diabolically-individualized task wherein they are forced to face their worst fears under lethal circumstances, they will be rewarded with 'safety stones' which can cancel out a percentage of the negative votes that might be cast against them.  Meanwhile their numbers diminish and their odds narrow as the government (at a loss for any other way to contain the unknown disease) hovers on the brink of a decision to obliterate the island.  Cliff-hanger!  In a nutshell, reality TV becomes the ultimate in reality reading, and Jim Brownhas my vote to garner enough critical safety stones to take him straight to the top of the best-seller list!	2001-10-31
US	52987389	RK7TE4KR4BJBL	034542154X	958404690	Dial M for Meat Loaf	Books	5	9	9	N	N	A Tasty Entree for Mystery Buffs!	Having grown up in Minneapolis, I've always enjoyed the way in which Ellen Hart capitalizes on what I think of as the uniquely Minnesotan mindset to provide a logical albeit somewhat locally-skewed rationale for her characters' attitudes and behaviors.  That's why I found it not at all unusual that irascible Cora Runbeck...her ne'er-do-well husband's sudden demise from a car bomb starts the plot action of the book off with a bang!...would take time out from her own somewhat nefarious plans for blackmail and mayhem to sit down and submit her special \\"No-Nonsense Meatloaf\\" recipe to the Minneapolis Times-Register's contest.  Like the dish that this delightful read celebrates, it's exactly that kind of marvelous mixture of off-beat humor and action-intense realism that makes Ellen Hart's novels such fun!  <br />Series heroine Sophie Greenway (wife of radio personality Bram Baldric, owner of the historic Maxwell Plaza hotel in St. Paul and recently-appointed restaurant critic for the Times-Register) together with her friend, Bernice Washburn, its food editor, are supposed to serve as judges for this event, but tasting takes a backseat to detecting when (spoiler).  Plato, his son, is especially distraught, but it is Bernice who begs Sophie to draw upon her talents as an amateur sleuth to try and unravel the why's behind this unlikely scenario and uncover the real murderer.  Her only starting point?  A series of puzzling letters that (spoiler). Ms. Hart's ingenuity and clever plotting provides clues aplenty, but unraveling former Mayor Washburn's past almost leads to another tragedy before the trail leads Sophie to the heart of the matter and justice can be served up piping hot!  As always, character-driven plotting and a tight, suspenseful pace kept me happily involved in the lives of Sophie and her family and friends, and the included recipes are pure lagniappe.  Meatloaf may be plain cooking, but Ellen Hart dishes up haute cuisine in cozies.	2001-10-31
US	52987389	R1025FQVHTZ98X	0345421256	685328810	The Alpine Nemesis: An Emma Lord Mystery	Books	5	9	11	N	N	A Superb Addition to a Strong Series!	A recent dearth of reportable happenings in Alpine, Washington has Advocate editor Emma Lord gnashing her teeth in frustration as she tries to make newsworthy bricks out of banal, local straw in this latest addition to Ms. Daheim's beautifully-crafted series of domestic mysteries.  Scooped by her media competitor Spencer Fleetwood on the last major story in the area...the mysterious disappearance of a snowboarder some two months prior to the events of this novel...Emma is trying hard to even the professional playing field while making up her mind about how to handle her recently rekindled romance with Tom Cavanaugh, the father of her son Adam, who is now very much back in her life with marriage on his mind.  However, it's never quiet in Alpine for long, and when a long-simmering local feud suddenly heats up and bullets start flying, Emma and the rest of her loyal staff are on the spot in more ways than one.  Intricate plotting is one of Ms. Daheim's fortes, so it's no surprise to the reader when an unexpected corpse shows up to further complicate the body count while other bodies suddenly start disappearing.  Once she uncovers the connecting link between these unlikely occurances, the plot takes a tragically international turn, and Emma is forced to pay a terrible price for unmasking a well-hidden conspiracy of terror and death and bringing its perpetrators to justice.  <br />In many respects, THE ALPINE NEMESIS is probably the strongest...certainly the most emotionally engrossing...novel in the series to date and case in point that, in Ms. Daheim's skilled hands, the 'cozy' has indeed come of age.  With a plot premise as engrossingly current as today's headlines, even her peripheral characterizations seem deeper and more three-dimensional than is generally true of the genre.  This is a wonderful stand-alone read and should provide a powerful incentive for any reader who wants both content and character in hir mystery fiction to pick up Emma Lord's other adventuresand savor them all.	2001-10-18
US	52987389	R1HC2DHDXV6JJW	044900631X	34343427	Murder in the Forecast (A Josie Pigeon Mystery #5)	Books	5	2	3	N	N	My Crystal Ball Says Must-Read!	Unlike action-intense soap operas, if a mystery series (especially a cozy one) is to have any 'legs' at all, I think we probably need to care more about the people involved in the chase than about the various capers that they choose to pursue.  By me, Valerie Wolzien's cozies have 'legs' because she has a simply marvelous flair for exactly this kind of get-the-reader-involved characterization.  I have become extremely fond of her series heroine, spunky building contractor and single parent, Josie Pigeon.  She reminds me of Mr. Micawber both in her optimistic approach to life in general (and running her business in particular) and in her fierce loyalty to her friends and family.  MURDER IN THE FORECAST puts both to the test.<br />When the novel begins, there are no storm clouds on Josie's horizon.  Her love affair with Sam Richardson is going smoothly; son Tyler is happily involved with his computer camp; her newly-wed friend and former employee, Betty Jacobs, is down for a visit bringing the happy news that she and John will soon become parents, and Josie's recruited a whole new crew of (mostly) likeable ladies to help her tackle one of Island Contracting's most ambitious projects to date: the complete renovation of Point House...a summer cottage in the grand, turn-of-the-century tradition...which should keep her busy and solvent for the entire summer.  Best of all, its new owner, wealthy New Yorker Cornell Hudson, wants the job done right with no corners cut and no expense spared.  Happily looking to the future, with typical Islander, hurricane-zone mentality, Josie pooh-poohs the radio's present warnings about a possible strike from Hurricane Agatha until the winds and waters suddenly start rising.  During the process of belatedly battening down her hatches, she makes a flying visit to Point House only to find Hudson's dead body in its living room and her old nemesis, Police Chief Rodney, banging on the front door threatening to arrest her for trespassing if she doesn't leave now!  Then Agatha hits.  When her fury subsides, the Island has been devastated and Point House...body and all...has been washed away.  (One of the strengths of this delightful novel is the extremely graphic way in which Ms. Wolzien handles the human realities of coping with and surviving both a hurricane and its aftermath.)  Unfortunately, RIP Cornell Hudson is not an option since three other furies in the form of Hudson's daughters (on-island during the storm) now want to know where their father is.  Josie has an answer for that one (which self-preservation and Rodney force her to keep to herself), but once his body is washed up on the beach, with the usual help from Sam and company, she is then free to sift through the minutae of the Hudson's highly dysfunctional family situation until she gathers enough evidence to first lead her to the reason behind his death and, ultimately, to its solution.  MURDER IN THE FORECAST is the fifth Josie Pigeon novel, but it stands-alone beautifully and is an intriguingly-plotted, thoroughly-enjoyable addition to a rock solid series which should make any first-time reader eager to know more about Josie and her friends as well as her previous adventures in amateur-sleuthing.	2001-10-18
US	52987389	R18TIMXM76J8BM	0312978979	559105152	Lie Like A Rug (A Ginger Barnes main line mystery)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Deftly done and absolutely delightful!	Donna Murray's Gin Barnes novels always epidomize that oh-so-rare quality in the genre: genuine cozies...but cozies with a brain! LIE LIKE A RUG (7th in the series)comes especially well-equiped with heart too and is quite probably my favorite of them all. Why?  Because not only does spunky Gin's determined sleuthing in this particular instance logically evolve out of her completely understandable concern for an old, dear friend who's in big-trouble when the novel opens (something that we can all relate to), but we get to see her win-out in an especially satisfying, cleverly-conceived, cliff-hanger denouement that keeps the reader guessing right down to the finish-line.  More? If Gin Barnes flew a flag, it would probably read &quot;Don't Tread on Me!&quot; with the sentiment extended to read &quot;Me or Mine!&quot;  Some of the strongest sections in this book are part of its subplot (which eventually dovetails marvelously with the main thrust of the action) wherein Gin helps husband Rip...another beautifully developed characterization...deliver a well-deserved kick in the pants to an enfant terrible who's been wreaking havoc at Bryn Derwyn Academy while the reader stands up and cheers!  Finally, as is again typical of what her fans expect, Ms. Murray has focussed her book around a thoroughly-researched, utterly intriguing technical background in which antique textile arts and their intricacies introduce us to a side of history that I have not encountered before and makes me want to transplant bag and baggage to the Winterthur Museum and experience its wonders for myself.  Warm and wonderfully real...Gin is a heroine to cherish, and since LIE LIKE A RUG reads beautifully as a stand-alone novel, it's a perfect introduction to a consistently outstanding mystery series.	2001-08-15
US	52987389	RZRZVXQYS8U6X	0345439929	756090484	Acid Test	Books	5	2	3	N	N	What Can't Happen Here...Just Might!	My personal litmus test for a successful thriller is whether or not it can keep me hanging on long past bedtime to satisfy my real need to know what happens next.  And I have to care: care about the characters, care about their problems and feel a sense of personal involvement in whatever crisis situation is central to its plot.  Russ LaManna's first novel ACID TEST hit me on a gut level in all of these areas.  What I found absolutely fascinating here was that, in his talented hands, a seemingly impossible scenario for world terrorism and domination...based on chemical 'time bombs' and stolen military technology, skillfully manipulated by an utterly ruthless dictator...coming within literally seconds of destroying our world as we know it becomes so utterly plausible.  Frankly, this was one very scary read!<br />I think a large part of its success is probably due to the fact that this novel is so beautifully-structured.  Mr. LaManna's previous literary experience may have dealt with the eye of the camera, but he has an absolutely bang-on! sensitivity for the kind of nuances that will capture and hold a reader's eye and attention.  The tension and fast-paced action simply never let up from our initial encounter with its protagonist, Matt Wilder, former hero of the Gulf War...invalided out and reassigned to the Air Force Office of Special Investigations...performing an apparently off-the-wall feat of personal bravery in the Australian outback which, in turn, sets the stage for its logical repetition on an even more hair-raising scale in the climactic confrontation at the end of the novel.  In addition to surrounding him with a host of equally well-realized allies and enemies, Mr. LaManna's skill at characterization makes it completely possible for us to accept Matt's heroic qualities at face value, and once we can believe in them, we can understand and accept the how's and why's of everything else that this brilliant author has envisioned.  I was also struck by the enormous amount of care that has gone into creating a rock-solid technical background...scientific, medical and political...which adds so immensely to the book's verisimilitude and appeal.  Long and short, ACID TEST is one of the most exciting and frightening novels that I have read in a long time, and I see it as a strong warning that what can't happen here just could and might if we continue to ignore some of the possibilities for disaster implicit to our present military/political policies.	2001-07-31
US	52987389	R225WMOU5DWZ8W	0345443373	266021617	Mutant	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Whistle-blowing Can Be Fatal!	Ray Bradbury once defined Science Fiction as &quot;a logical extension of reality&quot;. In his spell-binding, stand-alone thriller MUTANT, best-selling physician-author Dr. Peter Clement relentlessly takes his readers one horrifyingly-logical step beyond today's scientic realities of laboratory-controlled genetic manipulation into an absolutely plausible and terrifyingly probable consideration of their what-if's should amoral men deliberately set out to unleash cross-specie genetic mutations for purposes of mass destruction.  His heroine, Dr. Kathleen Sullivan, a brilliant research geneticist, has become increasingly alarmed by the lack of environmental curbs imposed on multi-billion-dollar corporate enterprises which utilize unmonitored genetic alteration techniques on plants for commercial purposes.  Her fears crystalize shortly after the sudden, horrible death of a child in Hawaii has been attributed to a deadly strain of &quot;bird flu&quot;, a disease which has somehow passed from its chicken carrier to a human host.  After she's almost killed while trying to uncover hard evidence to prove that genetically-tainted feed (which may have originated at Agrenomics International, one of her targeted corporations)was the lethal link, she shares her fears and suspicions with Dr. Richard Steele, a burned-out ER doctor...in recovery from a heart attack brought on by overwork and personal stress...during a chance encounter at a convention and piques both his professional and personal interest.  Once he becomes convinced that her fears are entirely justified, they join forces only to discover that whistle-blowing can be deadly business as the appalling, utterly damning evidence begins to emerge from a tangled web of false leads and corporate misdirection.  Caught up in what soon proves to be an international terrorist conspiracy, they ultimately find themselves in a race against time to stop the implementation of a doomsday scenario aimed at the heart and heartlands of North America.  The cliff-hanger uncertainties of the will-they-won't-they ramifications of its final pages make this brilliant novel's unforgetable denouement a genuine milestone in the genre.<br />MUTANT quite literally leaps from today's headlines into the heart and mind of its reader.  One of Dr. Clement's rare talents as a writer is his ability to make highly technical material completely understandable in lay terms without sacrificing any of the elements of superb storytelling.  His characters are solidly-realized and intensely real; he has a positive genius for pushing his plot action to its utmost limits without ever violating our sense of cedibility, and I find it impossible to believe that anyone can come away from this literary experience entirely unshaken or unmoved by his shattering vision of an all-too-possible, near-future America.	2001-07-17
US	52987389	R2VCRPMWHFHDVK	0449006220	46836228	The Procedure	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Murder and Malfeasance Make for Deadly Medicine	Peter Clement's charismatic hero, Dr. Earl Garnet, outspoken chief of ER services at St. Paul's Hospital in Buffalo, has always been something of a maverick. Deeply caring and utterly involved in his profession, he puts his patients before what's politic and his professional ethics before personal advancement.  His infinite capacity for outrage in both areas is tested to the hilt when a baby arrives too late and dies in his ER because the mother's HMO had withheld not timely treatment, but their guarantee to pay for it.  He subsequently publicly charges powerful Brama Health Care with &quot;No fault murder&quot; and opens a can of worms that rocks the hospital's hierarchy to its core.  Dr. Clement's own years of experience and technical expertise in ER medicine coupled with his brilliant flair for suspenseful plotting and and non-stop action make this latest addition to an already best-selling medical series almost impossible to put down.  As has been the case with his two previous thrillers, he keeps several plot-lines running in tandem.  Shortly after the baby's death, a doctor who might have been associated with Brama is found brutally murdered in the hospital parking lot, and another doctor, an alcoholic friend and former colleague of Garnet's, disappears after enrolling in a secret, experimental drug rehab program which also appears to be linked to the HMO.  As the financial stakes increase and pressures to cover-up and deny mount, Garnet finds himself increasingly alone in his attempts to establish a connection between these apparently disparate events that will provide tangible proof of murder, malfeasance and corruption in both the HMO and the medical establishment, bring the real culprits to justice and create the desperately needed mandate for managed care reform which he sees as a personal imperative.  In order to do this, he ultimately puts his own life on the line with utterly spine-tingling results.<br />I believe that Dr. Clement is a 'muck-raker' inthe original and most honorable sense of the term.  He wields his creative talent like a scapel with devastating power and accuracy to expose the multiplicity of flaws and shortcomings inherent to our present system of medical care, and it is impossible to come away from his fictional world without having some terrible concerns about the real one which we all have to deal with sooner or later ourselves.	2001-07-17
