US	52988835	R21YBFBSS2X64K	0380978407	737838666	Lamb: The Gospel According to Biff, Christ's Childhood Pal	Books	3	5	10	N	N	This "Lamb" is a little lame	First, let me say that I have been a big fan of Christopher Moore. His \\"Blood Sucking Fiends\\" remains an all-time humor favorite.  In many ways, \\"Lamb\\" will not disappoint Moore's many fans. I smiled often while reading it, and it did hold my attention throughout.<br /><BR>The major disappointment with \\"Lamb\\" is that it initially held out some promise that Moore would break into new literary ground. Any work that tackles the life of so influential a personage as Jesus Christ,would seem guaranteed to have a serious side.  Oh yeah, there is a message of the essence of Christianity to be found here, but it comes through as a sort of background, intermittant mumbling to the almost non-stop guffaws. \\"Lamb\\" is very funny, in the off-beat manner of its predecesors, but it could have been... well... so much \\"Moore.\\"<br /><BR>\\"Lamb\\" is narrated by Biff, the Messiah's \\"best buddy.\\"  Problem is that Biff is being forced by an angel to record this \\"missing gospel.\\" And so he does, in a wise-cracking and often hilariously sarcastic manner.  But is this enough?  Wouldn't we expect that the guy who stayed with the Messiah through thick and thin, the guy who followed him on all manner of risky adventures, would, in the end, be somehow *transformed* by this special friendship? That he would joyfully tell the tale, rather than carp about the angel's watchful vigilance? Biff gives us the laughs, but, by book's end, he is the same character that he was at the beginning -- older, but with the smirkiness still intact, and no sign of a deeper faith.  Had Moore taken more of a risk, and delved courageously into the serious potential that his premise held forth, this might have been a real classic.  Instead, it is pretty much the stock, zany spoof that Moore's readers have come to expect. And agian, this is NOT to say it's bad.  It compares very favorably to his other books -- in the humor department.  This guy is a very talented author, and I wish he would not try so hard to please his fans, but go out on a limb and balance the comedy with some more profound stuff.  I eagerly anticipated \\"Lamb,\\" thinking he might do that here, but, alas, he stayed true to formula.  Maybe the next one will be the one that surprises us.<BR>I'll keep buying his books, because they are fun to read.	2003-01-22
US	52988835	R2VAEVD5BUQQCF	0738202789	802542965	Love at Goon Park: Harry Harlow and the Science of Affection	Books	5	17	17	N	N	Science of love and the darker love for science	Harry Harlow was an \\"envelope pusher\\" who,increasingly driven to find answers to the most fundamental questions about why we both need and give love, transformed himself into a strident and self-righteous researcher -- admired and hated by his colleagues.  This book tells the story in a gripping manner, really putting the reader \\"inside the mind-set\\" of a researcher who, driven by his own sense of being unloved, developed a seeming manaic compulsion to dissect and analyze the nature of love.  He did it in a way that both enthralled and infuriated others.  <br /><BR>The primate research lab at the department of psychology of the University of Madison is the setting for this absorbing book.  Here, we also learn of academic subterfuge and conspiracy, and the irony of psychologists behaving in a severely dysfunctional manner.  The title refers to the address of the lab, which was 600 N. Park, but often looked like \\"Goon Park\\" when scrawled by hand on envelopes and memos.  This is great science writing that is balanced, insightful, and manages to capture both the beauty and the ugliness of scientific research without taking a pious stance.  Quite a neat trick, but Deborah Blum pulls it off and brings this overlooked episode of psychology research into the forefront of our understanding of how science is really practiced.  Very readable, with fascinating insights throughout.  Even if you're thinking \\"Harry WHO?\\" you will, after completing this book, feel that everyone should know about his life and work.	2002-10-16
US	52988835	R3L4BTGYX70VS5	0374131430	853021791	Crescent and Star: Turkey Between Two Worlds	Books	5	13	14	N	N	Turkey: Destined to Become the World's Greatest Democracy?	&quot;Crescent and Star&quot; is a very intriguing, accessible, and passionately written overview of Turkey, with special emphasis on its struggle to emerge as a democratic state.  While some have complained that this book is &quot;shallow,&quot; I think that's being overly harsh, since, with all the history and varied cultures that have defined modern-day Turkey, copious volumes could still be written that would provide new insight. <br /> <br />Author Stephen Kinzer should be credited with producing a fluidly written and I daresay exhilirating introduction to this fascinating nation that, as the subtitle suggests, literally and symbolicallly stands between &quot;two worlds.&quot;  Kinzer comes across as a sort of &quot;cheerleader&quot; for Turkey and the Turkish people, not hiding his hopes that this tradition-steeped nation reach its potential to become the world's first Islamic democracy.  And why shouldn't he cheer?  The implications of Turkey attaining this goal are nothing short of staggering. <br /><br />As Kinzer points out, Turkey is faced with the challenge of forging a secularist, free, multicultural, and economically strong nation.  It's enticing destiny is not to become another United States, but to achieve a world stature that will in certain ways exceed that of the United States.  The U.S. became the world's poster-nation for freedom, in large measure, because its history was forged in a relatively short time, unencumbered by centuries-old antagonisms. You often hear that peace is hopeless in the Middle East because of the anciently rooted antagonisms that continue to fester.  Kinzer shows glimmers of hope that Turkey, while never dismissing nor forgetting its history, may just be capable of breaking free of its oppressive grasp. This is something the U.S. never had to overcome.  Turkey's success would forever put to rest the argument that Middle East nations are incapable of peace because history works against that goal.  Turkey would be the firstto show that, while history defines what a nation is, a nation can nevertheless become the author of its own history, making it hopeful. <BR>It is this perspective that Kinzer lays out, and it is easy to understand why he is so enamored with it.  After reading<BR>&quot;Crescent and Star,&quot; you will be too.  You will also understand why those who are committed to perpetuating the sad and worn out legacy of violence and extremism will continue to hope that Turkey does not succeed.	2001-12-29
US	52988835	R2YDPTM1FCE88M	1580621449	988027682	Everything Dog Book	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Want a Dog? Here's an Excellent Place to Start!	The &quot;Everything Dog Book&quot; actually sticks pretty much to the basics of dog care and training, but it presents this information in a highly readable and thought-provoking manner. Want a dog?  This book asks YOU why, and what you are looking for in a dog. There are helpful worksheets to assess lifestyle and whether or not ANY dog should be in your future.  I like that.  At times, DeVito almost seems to be talking the reader out of getting a dog, and this is great, for so many people make such an important decision without seriously thinking of how it will change their lives.<br /> There are some brief, but very accurate descriptions of some of the top breeds (don't look for a comprehensive listing). This will help those unfamiliar with breed profiles to narrow down their preferences in short order.<br /> Many helpful hints abound in this book, too.  Did you know that if you knick Fido's quick while clipping his nails, common cornstarch will make an effective clotting agent?  Do you know ten great questions to ask a breeder?  Web sites devoted to dog  health issues?  DeVito even includes a section of grieving the loss of a companion dog, something often neglected in such books. <br /> Another strong point for this book is the presentation style. There are really nice line drawings and half-tone images, along with very interesting side-bars (one is on famous quotes about dogs) scattered throughout the pages.  The writing style is breezy but to the point.  This is a great book for those who want to get right to the useful information without a lot of digressions.  This kind of writing will appeal to young adults as well as adults.<br /> Overall, this book covers all the information you will initially need in your quest to obtain and care for a dog.  The information is accurate, up to date, and clearly presented.  DeVito advocates crate training (and tells why it is NOT a &quot;cruel&quot; technique), stresses the ways in which you incorporate a dog into your ongoing lifestyle, and laces this work with frequent humor. I highly recommend this book to get started, and then checking out &quot;The Art of Raising a Puppy&quot; by the Monks of New Skete.	2001-07-17
US	52988835	R3MS36OC8HF4FK	0613171373	817918233	A Child Called &#34;&#34;It&#34;&#34;: One Child's Courage To Survive (Turtleback School & Library Binding Edition)	Books	2	23	31	N	N	Proceed with skepticism!	I approached this book from the outset with skepticism, and for what I think are good reasons.  First, the publisher is not mainstream, and one wonders how many rejections came at the hands of more demanding editors.  Second, Peltzer claims that he is writing with the &quot;voice&quot; of the abused child, telling the story as it might be told as the harrowing events happened to him.  That sounds like a slick editorial decision to &quot;cover&quot; for what is essentially very poor writing style. (&quot;Hey, this guy writes like a kid, so why not SELL it as the memories of a kid?&quot;)  Thirdly, Peltzer goes on and on detailing all manner of horrors, yet he stridently overlooks many pressing questions that the reader will have.  WHAT might have motivated his mother to do such things?  HOW was she coping with other aspects of her life?  At one point, Peltzer describes an injury that would certainly require hospitalization, and then, astoudingly, just moves on to another incident of abuse.  The reader is left wondering if and how Peltzer got the needed medical attention... how on earth his mother could have done a cover up for this... and yes... just how much of this is truth and how much is fictionalized sensationalism.  Try reading a book like the marvelous memoir of Gregory Howard Williams' &quot;Life on the Color Line&quot; -- it is rich in detail, probes the motives of his parents, and leaves you utterly convinced of its authenticity.	2001-06-15
US	52988835	R2AC9THR227Z0C	0684864142	400589607	The African-American Century: How Black Americans Have Shaped Our Country	Books	5	34	36	N	N	Great Reference: Just Understand Its Purposes	Even though this book gives brief biographical sketches of  significant African Americans, I still give it five stars for the following reasons:<br />1) It is a very neatly organized resource for notable African-Americans, that can give quick and accurate information about these people and their times.  I like that each page clearly shows the decade during which that person made major accomplishments. For each person profiled, there is at least one  photo, and a provocative, &quot;boxed&quot; quote.<br />2) This kind of book is desperately needed by most of America's schoolteachers. Many are not well-informed about the achievements of African-Americans, and here they get a quick, clear, and stimulating profile of many who made major contributions.  Further, Professors Gates and West provide a bibliography that leads the reader to at least one significant in-depth work about each person profiled, so those who want to know more are &quot;pointed in the right direction.&quot;<br />3) While there are some sports and entertainment figures, I don't think there is any bias in that direction. With personages like Muhammad Ali, Jackie Robinson, and Hank Aaron, you MUST include them in a work like this because they really transcended sports, and became larger-than-life symbols of social issues.<br />4) Professors Cornel West and Henry Gates Jr. write in a very clear manner, and don't candy-coat their subject manner.  They point out the contradictions in many of these peoples' lives, mention their social critics, and demonstrate that meaningful lives are seldom neat and tidy ones.  To professors Gates and West, I say &quot;Thanks, fellas, for not coming across like the stereotypical &quot;stuffy Harvard scholars!&quot;  <br /><br />Finally, if you know of a school teacher who is well-intended about teaching more about African American history, but maybe  can benefit from an attractively presented and easily accessible resource book, think of this as a thoughtful gift to that person.  Next time February (Black History Month) rolls around, they will have lots of suggestions for class projects and pupil reports.	2001-03-09
US	52988835	R1KVCP9VORMRZZ	0375404031	295818442	The Endurance: Shackleton's Legendary Antarctic Expedition	Books	5	7	8	N	N	The ONE Shackleton book to get!	Yes, there have been many books about Shackleton's famous Antarctic expedition: the one that should have become tragic, but amazingly did not. Some of these books are recently published.  Why spend your money on this one? Because it offers the best combination of narrative, photographs, and assessment of the expedition's success.  Alexander chooses to let the story unfold from the multiple perspectives of those who lived it.  You get absolutely outstanding photos (by Frank Hurley, the expedition photographer), diary excerpts (sometimes revealing different perspectives of the same event), and Alexander's sure-handed narrative that never succumbs to sensationalistic &quot;second-guessing.&quot;  The photos are beautifully integrated with the text, presented at just the right places (and they are graphically sharp and clear).  The captions vary, sometimes using Alexander's own observations, sometimes quoting from the diaries of the men who, as Shackleton put it, had &quot;been to Hell&quot; and all returned. If you only have time to read one book about this extraordinary tale of survival, this is the ONE.  A worthy purchase, as you will likely find yourself going back to browse after the first reading.	2001-03-06
US	52988835	RAODK3B1XD0LN	0452278651	223524794	Black Robe: A Novel	Books	4	6	7	N	N	Unsettling exploration of  &quot;strange&quot; others	The late Brian Moore delivers an historically grounded novel that vividly and disburbingly explores how two distinct cultural  worlds can view each other as strange, dangerous, and threatening.  The worlds of French Jesuit missionaries and Algonkian and Huron Indians collide in the midst of 16th century exploration.  <br /> The Jesuits see the Natives as sexually unrestrained, uncivilized, and worst of all, unknowing of the road to eternal salvation.  The Natives view Jesuit fixation on possessions and  ignorance of the wisdom of nature with contempt.  Moore provides many examples of cross-cultural misunderstanding.  For example, some Huron, at one point, wonder why the Jesuit priests would forego sex, such a natural human experience, and worship a fallen god whose pieces of corpse are kept hidden in a little box.  The Jesuits cannot understand why the Natives show no respect for privacy, why everything they do is within full scrutiny of the rest of the tribe.<br /> Father Paul gradually feels his faith slipping away.  Towards the end, we see a radical shift in the nature of that faith, brought about the only possible way it could have been brought about -- by harrowing encounters with a strange and menacing and perhaps never to be understood culture -- but one which nevertheless reveals a human face at odd and unexpected moments.<br /> Do be forewarned.  There is lots of sexually explicit language here, as Moore tries to capture the historically documented &quot;scatological&quot; speech patterns of the Natives.  Neither cultural world -- French nor Native -- is idealized.  Moore reveals many of the warts here -- inhumane and gruesome attributes surfacing on either side.  Some might find this approach to be &quot;politically incorrect,&quot; but I suspect, more likely, Moore is taking us back to the harsh realities of an earlier century.  He reminds us that while it may be tempting to &quot;reinterpret&quot; cultures with our cozy and comfortable contemporary sensibilities, that is just plain self-deception. Those were horrible times in which to live, and different standards of morality prevailed in both cultural worlds. Despite this strong conviction to creating historical sense of place, there is a tenous and fleeting humanity to be discovered in the actions of Indians and missionaries alike.<br /> I will admit that I found elements of this book disturbing, even a bit offensive... but the ending brings it all into a greater context of profound human insight, and left me thinking: &quot;Of course it was a difficult and disturbing read -- how could it be otherwise?&quot;  If you are fascinated with how contact with strange cultures can create unsettling and even tragic consequences, you will find this story both memorable and well worth your moments of reflection upon it.	2001-02-28
US	52988835	R1OIJBQ9WYXU8G	0062516078	564522465	The Measure of a Man	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Mr. Poitier's Life... or YOURS?	This is not the typical &quot;memoir&quot; that many readers in this &quot;tell all&quot; age now expect.  Yes, Mr. Poitier holds back and deliberately keeps many details of his personal experience out of the picture here.  What he does, is to selectively draw upon those aspects of his life that somehow manage to inform and enlighten on the transcendent meaning of life that we ALL struggle for, that we ALL must be responsible for creating. You cannot read his words without bringing them to bear on your own life in some profound way (that goes for women readers too). It is in this sense, that the autobiography is deemed &quot;spiritual.&quot; (Don't expect &quot;saved by Jesus,&quot; &quot;visited by angels&quot;, or other such accounts here -- the spirituality grows from confronting life's challenges on many fronts). <br /> Poitier begins his book by describing an experience so symbolic of our meaning-starved times: surfing through TV channels with a remote: &quot;This vast sophisticted technology and... nothing.  It's given me not one smidgen of pleasure.  It's informed me of nothing beyond my own ignorance and own frailties (p. 1)&quot; He then goes on to describe how, in order to become the man that he is today, he had to go out and find his personal meaning, find a craft that he could commit to, channel rage into forgiveness, and  know what it means to &quot;take his measure.&quot;  His language is deceptively simple.  Seemingly blunt assertions are, upon reflection, just oozing with profundity. Just &quot;listen&quot; to him wind down at book's end: &quot;Human life is a highly imperfect system, filled with subordinate imperfections all the way down.  The only thing we know for sure is that in another eight billion years it will all be over.  Our sun will have spent itself; and the day it expires, you'll hear the crunch all over the solar system, because then everything will turn to absolute zero... But you can't live focused on that.  You can't hang on that...(p.242).&quot; So what does the reader hang on to here?  The creation of a life that matters... helped along by one who really did succeed in this quest.  Sidney Poitier is putting elements of his life onto the table so that you and I can learn from them, see how one indiviudal life can say a lot about the bigger LIFE.<br /> Finally, I must say that the writing style has a real flow to it, and it moves along with a rythm that is punctuated by the &quot;pop! pop! pop!&quot; of one searing insight after another.  I teach college sociology, and am going to use this book as required reading. I wish it were required in all high schools.  So many students today are searching for meaning, but finding that our culture lets them down with false promises of consumerism and diversion.  This book will, I'm sure, help point many of them in the right direction.  But, of course, it's a book for everyone.  Very inspiring, the kind of book you'll want to turn back to -- especially when the sailing gets rough.	2001-02-10
US	52988835	RPM3D4ASF1JWA	0062716115	598183009	Witness to America: An Illustrated Documentary History of the United States from the Revolution to Today	Books	3	3	7	N	N	Interesting Browsing, Could Have Been So Much More	First, you need to appreciate that this is indeed a &quot;coffee table&quot; book, and is not, never was intended, to be a piece of serious scholarship.  It's for browsing, and with that purpose in mind, &quot;Witness to America&quot; offers enough disparate accounts to make it interesting. The book consists of first person narratives at various junctures in U.S. history, broadly organized by the major societal transitions that this nation experienced (e.g., &quot;The Last West&quot; &quot;The Rise of the City, &quot;The Progressive Era,&quot; &quot;The Individual Rights Movement&quot;).  These strike me as pretty standard categorizations, what you would typically find in most school texts, so ignore the reader comments that allude to some special &quot;agenda&quot; of the editors -- liberal or otherwise.  Besides, the editors keep their prefacatory comments to each reading exceedingly brief, and allow the &quot;witnesses&quot; to speak for themselves.<br /> &quot;Witness&quot; does cover broad territory, with many accounts that represent both influential and minor participants in America's development.  That's a plus, as it is always enlightening to see how both the big players as well as the everyday citizens interpret events around them.  On the other hand, these are all American observers, and you wonder how much more the book might have accomplished had it included &quot;witnesses&quot; from the outside looking in. For example, we get to read General Washington's farewell address to his troops.  Wouldn't it have been fascinating to see some of General Cornwallis' observations on the defeat of England and his take on this new nation &quot;born of rebellion?&quot;  Similarly, we read Secretary of State Cordell Hull's recollections of the day Pearl Harbor was attacked, and sense his  scorn for what seem in his mind to be those &quot;naughty little Japanese ambassadors.&quot;  Again, what about a view of America from  somebody like Admiral Yamamoto?<br /> Okay, maybe I'm being a bit picky here.  Including these &quot;outside views&quot; would make a 600+ page book even longer.  But then again, so much of U.S. history is cast as how we look at ourselves.  The added diversity of other views would have been fascinating in a work like this.  So look at &quot;Witness&quot; as the work it was intended to be -- a reference for browsing.  Even the editors explain at the beginning of their citation list that they have declined to annotate it because they are serving the interest of general readers, not scholars.  Three and one-half stars.	2001-02-10
US	52988835	RG5LC04WEUTA0	0812929012	924992585	The Working Life: The Promise and Betrayal of Modern Work	Books	4	14	14	N	N	Provocative Overview of What We Often Take for Granted	Joanne Ciulla presents a very well organized, philosophically grounded overview of work -- its varying meanings, its historical evolution, and its paradoxes as found in modern institutions.  She is very up front with the reader in her introduction, admitting that this book is not a scientific investigation, but rather a broad interpretation of the meaning of work and how it has come to both bless and curse us in present times. Accordingly, there are succint summaries of some of the major interpretations of work -- from the early Greek philosophers to contemporary management schools.<br /> But this is more than just an overview, too.  Ciulla has a way of getting her readers to look at work with unexpected insights every step of the way. She peels away the common sense and taken-for-granted interpretations of work (which are often based on promising the worker some sort of fulfillment, but at the price of surrenduring autonomy).  She does a nice job of deflating recent management theories that tout &quot;new&quot; approaches (management theory is woefully a-historical, she asserts, and is always looking at recycled approaches as though they are breakthroughs). There is a tone of leariness here, rooted in a skepticism over those who apply new management theories in order to exert greater control over individuals, and encourage them to shift their focus more and more away from families, community, and individually expressed forms of self-worth.<br /> Overall, if you're skeptical of the latest management promises of creating &quot;fulfilling work&quot; (or if you really think the &quot;Dilbert&quot; cartoon series is right on the mark), you'll like this book.  If you are looking for something that offers a new twist to management technique, you will likely find this book impractical and overly alarmist.	2001-02-05
US	52988835	R4825IF6C1FD2	0767903501	671795868	Beethoven's Hair: An Extraordinary Historical Odyssey and a Scientific Mystery Solved	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Story comes together at points, misses at others	Russell Martin writes a very intriguing story that interweaves  elements of Beethoven's times and his contemporaries, Danish efforts to help persecuted Jews emigrate to Sweden during the  Second World War, and Forensic medicine.  The vehicle that keeps these stories together is a locket containing some hair of the composer, and how it is passed on from one owner to another.<br /> If you know a lot about Beethoven, or have read other books on his life, you will likely find the first third of the book redundant.  It really picks up in the middle section, the strongest part of the book in my view.  That part tells the story of how the locket surfaced in the midst of a heroic effort to protect Danish Jews under Nazi pursuit.  Martin effectively creates the sense of danger that both fleeing Jews and their  covert assistants must have felt.<br /> The last part of the book offers new insight on what may have caused Beethoven's terrible suffering and eventual death.  However, it is not necessarily a startling finding; only one that hasn't been suggested yet.  The book's &quot;mystery solved&quot; subtititle is a little misleading in that respect.<br /> Getting back to the real strength of the book, it lies in telling how the boy who originallly clipped Beethoven's hair propehtically expressed concern of the pending &quot;bloodbath&quot; to come in Europe, how his family strove to hide their Jewish identity, and how Beethoven's relic of hair played a role in  saving a number of Danish Jews.  I only wish the author would have explored more fully the question of how contemporaries of Beethoven (like Wagner and Liszt), who were so moved by the  humanity-affirming 9th Symphony, could allow creeping anti-Semitism to become part of their lives.  To me, that is the even bigger &quot;musical mystery&quot; to be investigated.  Martin does, however, provide enough historical context and sharp insight to  point the reader in the direction of some answers.  In that respect, reading &quot;Beethoven's Hair&quot; will be just the beginning for those who ponder the darker side of human nature. The book serves as a fascinating take-off point for further investigation. It is well written and keeps a good balance between the three elements of the story.  Just don't expect it to be a great biography on Beethoven nor a revelation of startling discoveries about his death.  Again, the strength of the book is in the middle section.	2001-01-17
US	52988835	R1N38KQVF1P8MU	0767903501	671795868	Beethoven's Hair: An Extraordinary Historical Odyssey and a Scientific Mystery Solved	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Story comes together at points, misses at others	Russell Martin writes a very intriguing story that interweaves  elements of Beethoven's times and his contemporaries, Danish efforts to help persecuted Jews emigrate to Sweden during the  Second World War, and Forensic medicine.  The vehicle that keeps these stories together is a locket containing some hair of the composer, and how it is passed on from one owner to another.<br /> If you know a lot about Beethoven, or have read other books on his life, you will likely find the first third of the book redundant.  It really picks up in the middle section, the strongest part of the book in my view.  That part tells the story of how the locket surfaced in the midst of a heroic effort to protect Danish Jews under Nazi pursuit.  Martin effectively creates the sense of danger that both fleeing Jews and their  covert assistants must have felt.<br /> The last part of the book offers new insight on what may have caused Beethoven's terrible suffering and eventual death.  However, it is not necessarily a startling finding; only one that hasn't been suggested yet.  The book's &quot;mystery solved&quot; subtititle is a little misleading in that respect.<br /> Getting back to the real strength of the book, it lies in telling how the boy who originallly clipped Beethoven's hair propehtically expressed concern of the pending &quot;bloodbath&quot; to come in Europe, how his family strove to hide their Jewish identity, and how Beethoven's relic of hair played a role in  saving a number of Danish Jews.  I only wish the author would have explored more fully the question of how contemporaries of Beethoven (like Wagner and Liszt), who were so moved by the  humanity-affirming 9th Symphony, could allow creeping anti-Semitism to become part of their lives.  To me, that is the even bigger &quot;musical mystery&quot; to be investigated.  Martin does, however, provide enough historical context and sharp insight to  point the reader in the direction of some answers.  In that respect, reading &quot;Beethoven's Hair&quot; will be just the beginning for those who ponder the darker side of human nature. The book serves as a fascinating take-off point for further investigation. It is well written and keeps a good balance between the three elements of the story.  Just don't expect it to be a great biography on Beethoven nor a revelation of startling discoveries about his death.  Again, the strength of the book is in the middle section.	2001-01-17
US	52988835	RQY1H1HH47DAF	0876592108	192486984	The Child and the Machine: How Computers Put Our Children's Education at Risk	Books	4	8	8	N	N	Thoughtful Critique of Computers in Education	This is not another Luddite style, hysterically pitched, attack on computers.  Armstrong and Casement present a well-reasoned and well-researched assessment of the shortcomings of computer eduction for children.  They point out many attributes of software design and computer network systems that work to the disadvantage of some children in certain cases, most children in others.  For instance, the very nature of the Internet, with all of its built-in &quot;hyerlink&quot; capability, will give only the most intensely focused pupils a fair shot at genuine learning.  The rest?  Prone to the distraction and ease of &quot;point and click&quot; motions, they are likely to follow tangential digressions and drift more and more away from the topic at hand.  They wil also encounter a high number of non-educational messages, intending to sell and promote consumption of products. The majority of &quot;educational&quot; software is described as heavily influenced by the video and computer game design mentality.  Pupils quickly learn how to master the &quot;object&quot; of the &quot;game&quot; and score points, but often with only superficial understanding of concepts.  Most  persuasive, however, may be the authors' argument that learning about the world must involve going out and experiencing it in numerous ways.  Sitting in front of a monitor is a very narrowly  defined kind of &quot;experience.&quot;  All elementary teachers, and indeed all parents of young children, should give this book a very open-minded examination.  Those whose kids read books, attend concerts, ask questions of other people, and get involved in conversations, will feel they are on the right track after following the authors' arguments.	2000-12-22
US	52988835	RMGZ1OQ947R0B	0316578398	87101258	The Art of Raising a Puppy	Books	5	9	11	N	N	Communion with DOG...	There are scads of books on how to raise puppies out there, and most of them range from fairly informative to extremely useful. This one is not only useful, but a step beyond the others.  It takes on the total relationship between puppy and trainer, delving into the nature of the dog-human bonding experience. Further, this book presents a spiritual perspective on that experience without succumbing to flippancy or cutesiness.<br /> Even if you don't plan to obtain a puppy soon, you will enjoy the way this book creates a sense of wonder over the sometimes trying, often rewarding relationship that humans forge with their canine friends.  The first chapter alone is quite inspirational, explaining the miraculous event of a German Shepherd giving birth.  Little details are carefully pointed out in such a way that they all contribute to a growing sense of reverance for dogs and their place in the grand scheme of nature.  Yet the book is loaded with sound, workable, and tested advice that every dog owner should appreciate. If you have a friend who likes non-commercialized, non-sectarian spiritual philosophy... and likes dogs ... and is thinking of getting a puppy -- this IS the PERFECT gift!  Should be on the bookshelf of every dog-lover.	2000-12-21
US	52988835	R2KGUQ0IFGCCXT	0399146709	767225287	Communion with God	Books	5	8	15	N	N	Cant't Wait for MORE	God is on a roll here, as He continues to channel His spirit and wisdom into the pen of Neale Walsch.   I'm delighted that God has chosen to speak to us all through Neale.  I can't wait for more... I just quiver in anticipation of titles like, &quot;Abducted by God,&quot; &quot;Outdoor Grilling with God,&quot; &quot;Financial Planning with God,&quot; &quot;God's Guide to America's Best Family Resorts,&quot; and yes, dare I even mention it...&quot;Understanding Microsoft Windows with God???&quot;  Great job Neale...er... I mean God!	2000-11-17
US	52988835	RA9XI56IAUGCL	067944243X	642454765	Sleeping with Extra-Terrestrials: The Rise of Irrationalism and Perils of Piety	Books	4	34	34	N	N	More Entertaining than Enlightening?	Wendy Kaminer delivers a wonderfully sardonic attack on the masses of Americans who eagerly rush to embrace the latest form of irrationalism.  She targets new age spirituality, public religious piety, junk science, and cyberculture fanatics.  In many ways, the tone of this book suggests Wendy quietly observing people declaring their allegiances to the bizarre and unfounded,  her arms folded and patiently waiting for any small scrap of credulity, and then rolling her eyes knowingly at the reader. That's the entertaining aspect of this book.<br /> Unfortunately, this effort strikes me as another example of &quot;preaching to the converted.&quot;  Kaminer is actually tackling topics so diverse (under the umbrella of irrational thought) that the reader may find herself/himself wishing that she had undertaken several separate books, not one.  She defends rational thought, but I think she needs to state more explicity what its advantages are, and why it is crucial to the human condition. Then too, she seems to overlook many of the ironic connections between the rational and the irrational.  For instance, a drug addict may embrace an irrational belief in a &quot;higher power&quot; but is not the end result -- changing self-destructive behavior -- a very rational outcome?  And then there is the issue of rationalism's shortfalls -- with all our rational and scientific progress, we find such malaises like alienation, loss of meaning, and decline in civility.  Perhaps the irony is that irrational realities like myths and spiritual beliefs are somehow a core component of a balanced social world.<br /> Okay, now back to the great things about Kaminer's book:  She very effectively points out the absurdity and hypocrisy of many irrational belief systems.  For instance, she appropriately condemns the &quot;double standard&quot; that exists when those in the traditional Juedeo-Christian camp poke fun at religions that make  &quot;irrational&quot; claims, forgetting the irrational basis of their own beliefs.  She bravely defends atheists and their right to reject belief in God, and questions whether an all-powerful God would even care about such things as whether or not he/she/it is believed and worshipped: &quot;My favorite God is the one who looks down on us and says, 'I wish they'd stop worrying about whether or not I exist and start obeying my commandments (p.49).' She questions the folks who zealously advocate prayer in school, believing that religion necessarily nurtures virtue, and forgetting all the human terrors committed in the name of religious belief: &quot;History testifies to a consistent human propensity to be good, but it provides little reason to believe that we are better when we consider ourselves to be allied with God (p.249).&quot;<br /> It is perplexing to see that some readers are so eager to bash Kaminer, because they feel their own religious or other &quot;irrational&quot; beliefs are being attacked.  Real faith, I would think, would be strong enough to invite critical reflection and  spririted (a pun, I guess) debate.  Kaminer, I'm convinced,would welcome that.  She is not anti-religion, nor anti-God, as many wrongly presume; she is just very pro- critical thinking.  And now that I wind down here, heck, maybe I was a bit unfair at the start... there may be more enlightening stuff here than at first meets the eye... or funnybone.   A good, challenging read!	2000-11-09
US	52988835	R2KFIA9M0DDDWP	0805037608	365613480	Past Imperfect: History According to the Movies (Henry Holt Reference Book)	Books	5	19	20	N	N	Let's have a revised edition...PLEASE???	This book is just too damn interesting not to go into a revised edition that would, welcomingly, include a few more recent examples of the movies portending to convey history.  It is cleverly organized, with an actual historical &quot;timeline&quot; that is matched with a selected movie that attempted to portray events for that period or year.  It starts all the way back in the Jurrasic period, with &quot;Jurrasic Park,&quot; of course.  Each movie critique is written by a different film expert or historian, so you get a lot of diversity of perspective as well as writing style.  There is a very intelligent interview of director John Sayles (&quot;Eight Men Out&quot; &quot;Metowan&quot;) in the preface, which may be reason enough for film buffs to purchase this book.<br /> One can either browse through the book and focus on &quot;favorite&quot; or &quot;hated&quot; films of the past, or read it straight through.  Each essay offers at least one very good insight on the nature of history and how elusive the &quot;accurate&quot; accounting of an era or event can be.<br /> The overall impression this book leaves is that movies, for all their ostensible efforts to &quot;recreate&quot; historical realities, will NEVER get it quite right.  That's because they are products of their own times, and cannot ever fully escape the sensibilities of their own historical eras.  Given this approach, the reader cannot help but gain a deeper appreciation for the exacting work of historians -- even if he or she is first attracted to the book out of interest in film.  Films (and histories) explored here include &quot;Spartacus,&quot; &quot;Aguirre, Wrath of God,&quot; &quot;Houdini&quot; &quot;Anne of a Thousand Days,&quot; &quot;Henry V&quot; (both Oliver and Branagh)&quot;They Died With their Boots On&quot;, as well as many more.  Since this book's publication, there have been more films that have either come close to, or completely mangled historical reality, so a revised edition wouldbe most welomed.  So to Mark Carnes, et al. -- PLEASE???	2000-11-07
US	52988835	RNN5MB7K0MFG9	1884910440	392099687	Writing a Book That Makes a Difference	Books	4	45	48	N	N	Inspiration to Set the Bar High	Philip Gerard takes on a seemingly grandiose goal in this guide: how to write a book that will not merely get published, not merely sell, but make a profound impact on many readers.  That may seem daunting, and indeed intimidating, but Gerard has a way of nudging the reader (and aspiring writer) to think grandly and take big chances.  He teaches primarily through example here, exploring some of the really great books, and telling what makes them so.   <br /> Gerard shares anecdotes about how these books started out with more modest aspirations, and if not for the author's impulse to envision a grander purpose, may have been destined to become minor, even forgettable works.  For example, Steinbeck originally wanted to do an investigative report on migrant workers, before convincing himself that a novelization of his findings, &quot;The Grapes of Wrath,&quot; would tell the story with much more impact. Similarly, Truman Capote took an audacious step (for the times), when he decided that the details of a chilling murder (and his own connection to one of the murderers) would work best as a &quot;factual&quot; novel. <br />  This book explains bold and innovative writing by examining the concrete examples of authors who have succeded in that pursuit.  As such, it should appeal not only to aspiring writers, but also to those who simply would like a run-down of great books and some rationale for their admired stature.  The one drawback here is that Gerard has a habit of bringing in new dimensions of great writing, but being a little strident in summarizing the cited works.  One sometimes gets the feeling that he merely scratches the surface of an important style, and then moves on to an altogether different one.  Even so, this is a book that both writers and readers are likely to appreciate and find valuable.	2000-10-22
US	52988835	R2QGDKKQEF281Z	0345401956	833729860	Ancient Mysteries	Books	4	17	18	N	N	Hold Your Own in After Dinner Debates	One very nice feature of this book is that it works like a general reference book, covering many topics that often instill controversial views.  The book does not necessarily need to be read &quot;cover to cover;&quot; it can be enjoyed by randomly reading any chapter.  The coverage is extensive, and the title is perhaps a bit misleading -- the book also covers less &quot;ancient&quot; areas of folklore and legend (such as the origins of &quot;Dracula&quot;). <br /> The authors debunk the pseudo-scientific and sensationalistic explanations for such human accomplishments as the Great Pyramids  and the images of the Nazca Plains.  They don't necessarily &quot;go for the jugular&quot; when assessing the views of New Agers and fringe archaeologists.  Rather, they point out why such scientifically erroneous theories would appeal to people, and why certain biases would lead to the resulting conclusions.  They also convey an idea that I have always believed -- in our modern age we just don't give ancient civilizations enough credit for their problem-solving skills and sheer determination.  Think about it, in a society where &quot;fast food&quot; is the norm, it's quite a leap to entertain the notion that thousands of Egyptian workers were willing to toil on a project whose completion would never be seen in their own lifetimes.  Who would want to do something like THAT nowadays?<br /> &quot;Ancient Civilizations&quot; is crisply and clearly written for the layperson, though the authors provide numerous references to scholarly sources if one wishes to pursue them.  Read this book, and when such topics as &quot;Who Built the Pyramids?&quot; and &quot;Were the Nazca Images UFO Airport Runways?&quot; come to surface, you will be able to hold your own, with cool reason and authority!	2000-10-21
US	52988835	R1FICEW1GF0IUN	0670891576	624836488	In the Heart of the Sea: The Tragedy of the Whaleship Essex	Books	4	17	18	N	N	Might Inspire You to Read (or Re-read) &quot;Moby Dick&quot;	This book presents a human tragedy of lost lives, on the one hand, and a tale of indomitable spirit and courage on the other. Even so, Nathaniel Philbrick avoids the temptation to idolize the survivors.  If anything, he underscores the role of simple luck in their good fortune, and even deals with how poorly some of them handled all the aftermath and the guilt associated with resorting to cannibalism.  In this respect, it becomes easy for the reader to imagine himself or herself as one of the personna in this gripping tale.  That is a real strength of this book; it  explores human survival by keeping the narrative on a human level.  This makes the story very accessible, and a quick read. <br />  Philbrick enhances the story with just enough background information on such topics as the subculture of Nantucket Island, 17th Century whaling practices, the gruesomeness of the hunt, navigational science, and the process of malnourishment and starvation.  While I did not find this book as emotionally gripping as Krakauer's &quot;Into Thin Air&quot; or O'Nan's &quot;The Circus Fire,&quot; I still found it a very worthwhile read.  Philbrick's description of whaling, and how this incident inspired Melville to write &quot;Moby Dick,&quot; has indeed piqued my curiosity about that great classic, which I have not read since high school.  I strongly suspect that, after &quot;In the Heart of the Sea,&quot; &quot;Moby Dick&quot; will be read with a whole new level of appreciation, as well as comprehension.  &quot;In the Heart of the Sea&quot; is a great book about the fragility of human life, and the dangers of confronting nature with arrogance, and in that way, is a kindred spirit with Melville's classic.  But even read alone, it's terrific.	2000-10-03
US	52988835	RS2ZD23V1EODF	0385496842	228406468	The Circus Fire: A True Story	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Morbid Attraction... or Truest Optimism?	On the back cover of &quot;Circus Fire,&quot; a blurb suggests that reading it will make you &quot;feel like you're inside the big top as it  starts to burn.&quot;  One must wonder about one's own attraction to such a  promise, as well as the author's intent.  And then again, O'Nan has dwelled  on tragic circumstances in his previous novels. So is this a book that  appeals to those who like to fixate on the bizarre and unfortunate  suffering of others, while enveloped in secure comfort?  HARDLY!  O'Nan  enters very delicate territory here, and he succeeds splendidly in giving  this tragedy the humane reconstruction and moral underpinnings that it not  only deserves, but absolutely requires.<br /> &quot;Circus Fire&quot; works on  several levels.  It is a recounting of human ignorance and cataclysmic  consequences.  It is a mystery. It is a microscopic examination of human  nature being put to the test, and succeeding and failing in numerous ways.   Most of all, I think, it is about optimism.  O'Nan goes deep into the  collective psyche of Hartford, the survivors of the fire, those  responsible, and those who lost loved ones -- and finds in all this a  profound meaning for the rest of us.  Yes, people suffered physically,  emotionally and spiritually.  But we, the readers, are ALIVE, and we can  FEEL COMPASSION.  In these profound realizations, we can appreciate the  precious nature of every waking moment of our existence.  While O'Nan  recreates the fire and its aftermath in exacting detail, giving life to  those who experienced and remembered and endured, it is the precarious yet  powerful nature of our own love for others that he is really addressing.   In this way, &quot;Circus Fire&quot; becomes a true miracle -- the scathed  survivors and those who lost others, as well as the souls of those who  perished, speak to us, teach us, touch us, and encourage us:  remember,  reach out, love... <br /> I cannot recommend this book highly enough.  The  reviews below speakwell to its value and its importance.  I thank Mr.  O'Nan, and I thank the 167 who left this life that day in 1944, for sharing  these important lessons with me.	2000-09-01
US	52988835	R3HX2FIKI9QT50	156584565X	346166362	Dr. Seuss Goes to War: The World War II Editorial Cartoons of Theodor Seuss Geisel	Books	4	10	10	N	N	The Not-So Silly, but Still Recognizable Dr. Suess	This collection of Dr. Suess' political cartoons of the WW II era is likely to intirgue both history buffs as well as the fans of all those  wildly imaginative kids' books.  The cartoons are not chronologically  ordered.  Rather, they are grouped by themes, with introductory material by  Minear preceding each (e.g., &quot;The Home Front,&quot; &quot;Hitler and  Nazi Germany,&quot; &quot;Winning the War&quot;).  This may seem a bit  chaotic to some, but in another way, it can be beneficial in that it  encourages one to make one's own comparisons of cartoon symbolism by paging  back and forth.<br /> Minear provides just enough historical backdrop.  What I  admire is that he respects the reader enough to refrain from making a  complete interpretation of the cartoons.  He often poses  rhetorical  questions that suggest multiple motives for Suess.  I like that; it leaves  me to make up my own mind based on my own knowledge of historical  events.<br /> Children familiar with Seuss will have a natural attraction to  the cartoons, as many of the forerunners of familar characters appear  there.  However, they are also likely to ask questions about things they  don't understand.  For children old enough (and that's a personal call),  this can be a wonderful way to introduce them to the history of World War  II and the political climate of the times.  Suess had a strong  anti-isolationist stance, but he also touches upon racism (labor exclusion  practices during the war, anti-semitism). He also demonstrates some degree  of racism himself, in the depiction of Japanese.  True, that was the  prevalent attitude of the times, but again, you have an opportunity to open  up some deeper discussion with a child or with your own conscience.   Teachers may be especially interested in tapping the potential of this  book.	2000-08-30
US	52988835	R3IKKVRHZKZ5SK	0439139597	667539744	Harry Potter And The Goblet Of Fire (Book 4)	Books	5	32	34	N	N	Why You Should Try Harry if You Dislike the Fantasy Genre	Holy dementors!...what can I add to about 3,000 reviews?  Well, let me try a different approach, pitching this review to those of you avoiding  &quot;Goblet of Fire&quot; (as well as the series) because you don't care  much for the fantasy genre, let alone the kind that works so many kids into  a frenzy.<br /> I never cared much for fantasy myself. It was always difficult  to work up interest in works that created umpteen different little  characters, with varying powers and talents, scattered across lands that  are only clearly imagined in the author's head.  Maps,appendices,  glossaries -- who needs all that!  But then comes this wonderful,  insanely imaginative writer named J.K. Rowling.  Oh J.K., what have you  done to me?  Turned me into a reader of books that kids are wild about!  But more importantly... how?  Well, here's what I suspect:<br /> Rowling,  unlike many other fantasy authors, has been clever enough to capture a  sense of BALANCE between her fantasy world and the real world that we all  share.  Hogwart's, for all it's magical passageways, ghosts, and other  quirks, IS in many ways similar to the real schools and colleges that we  have attended.  The magic and witchcraft professors share many odd and  charming traits that you DO see in their real-life counterparts (and as an  academic, I can assure you, there really ARE Lockharts, Dumbledores,  Trelawneys, and Snapes out there!).  Every kid has in one way or another  seen home as a sort of &quot;prison&quot; at times, and longed for some  degree of power over situations.  The magic of Harry Potter is the magic of  our own human aspirations.  And it is put forth in a world that, while  fantastical, has enough similarity to our own that we can feel very much  more a part of it.  I know, I know, the Potter books have become a huge  mass-market success... but Rowling is a major literary talent even in spite  of all that hoopla.  Moreover, she was clever enough to anticipate the  paranoia of some readers over books about wizards and witches, and gently  but deservedly parodies them in the form of certain &quot;muggles.&quot;  So if you think fantasy is not for you, please give Harry Potter a try...  these books really DO live up to all the hype they've been receiving.  And  thanks J.K., for showing a world of readers that magic does exist in every  nook and cranny of our lives!over books about wizards and witches, and gently  but deservedly parodies them in the form of certain &quot;muggles.&quot;  So if you think fantasy is not for you, please give Harry Potter a try...  these books really DO live up to all the hype they've been receiving.  And  thanks J.K., for showing a world of readers that magic does exist in every  nook and cranny of our lives!	2000-08-24
US	52988835	RGCV6RYF9K2ID	0670882178	132792490	The Age of Spiritual Machines: When Computers Exceed Human Intelligence	Books	4	12	12	N	N	Interesting, Flawed, Interesting...	Kurzweil's book is interesting, especially for those who want an easily readable, breezy introduction to the world of artificial intelligence.  The author has a nice knack for using metaphors that get complicated concepts  across.  That is also one of the flaws of this book, for sometimes the  metaphors oversimplify at best, or mislead at worst.  Kurzweil has an  unbridled enthusiasm for thinking machines, and his sense of excitement in  speculating on where the latest developments in this field will lead us  certainly comes through.  So this book is quite unlike many others in the  artificial intelligence field, which tend to get bogged down in complex  analysis while losing the sense of wonder behind the technology.<br /> On the  other hand, Kurzweil is perhaps overly &quot;gung ho&quot; on the potential  for smart computers.  He addresses mainly the &quot;benefits&quot; side of  the coin here, and tends to downplay or ignore the possible costs to human  existence.  This bias is very clear when he presents a long quote about the  dangers of human beings becoming too dependent on technology that thinks.   Turn the page, and -- surprise -- the author of the quote is Theodore  Kaczynski, the Unabomber.  Thus Kurzweil uses the &quot;guilt by  association ploy,&quot; suggesting that anyone who objects to the  development of synthetic consciousness can be classified in the  &quot;fringe element&quot; along with the Unabomber.  Very unfair!  While  most of us deplore what Kaczynski did to get his points across, that does  not mean that all of his ideas are horrendous as well. In fact, Bill Joy,  an author who lost colleagues to the Unabomber, makes this point in his  Wired article, &quot;Why the Future Doesn't Need Us.&quot;  We must be  careful not to define anyone who questions the value of technological  progress as just another &quot;nut.&quot;<br /> But then again, Kurzweil can  pull the reader right back with a fascinating example of how artificial  minds may serveus in new ways.  He writes about the potential for  &quot;downloading&quot; human consciousness, for instance -- is this a step  towards attaining immortality?  I agree with the other readers who have  asserted that many of Kurzweil's speculations are overly optimistic.  He  presents examples of poetry &quot;written&quot; by a computer, but they are  not so impressive when you consider that the computer was given data on  &quot;style&quot; of real human poets.  Considering that, this creative  achievement by a machine is closer to what current word-processing programs  do than to what a human author experiences.<br /> I don't want to sound too  critical here, because the fact is that I really enjoyed this book, even  while disagreeing with many of the author's conclusions.  I would in fact  highly recommend this book to anyone who is intrigued with the impact of  artificial intelligence on human nature.  It is certainly the sort of book  that will inspire spirited (pun intended) debates among those who like the  idea of conscious computers and those who are leary of same.  And that's  the very good thing about this book -- it will spur necessary debate over  an extremely important issue, and we all stand to benefit from that.	2000-08-01
US	52988835	R28DFRF8WG1CTR	067088135X	388161800	Squids Will Be Squids: Fresh Morals, Beastly Fables	Books	5	31	31	N	N	Wise-guys and Wise-gals will love this!	To get an idea of Scieszka's humor, let me tell you about howhe once introduced himself to a group of kids.  &quot;Hieveryone,&quot; he said...  &quot;Now I know some of you have been having a little trouble with my name.  It's not that hard, really. Let's all say it together... Ready? ...  JOHN!&quot;<br /> Well, the kids squealed in delight, recognizing that here was a guy in tune with their own inner &quot;smart-alecs.&quot; This particular book, &quot;Squids Will Be Squids,&quot; is perhaps the most lucid product of Scieszka's irreverent imagination.  It is is basically a re-telling of familiar and not-so-familiar fables, but with unexpected, and very funny twists at the end.  The humor is such that both kids and adults will snicker, and it is enhanced by Lane Smith's appropriately bizzare character illustrations.<br /> This is a book for any kid who is catching on (or becoming a pro) in the art of gentle sarcasm.  There is a fable about why kids in the cafeteria don't want to eat lunch with Shark, Wasp, and Bacteria, and the punchline is classic.  Another is a tale that warps around, and totally reinterprets, the otherwise sage advice, &quot;Don't Play with Matches.&quot;<br /> I've read some of these fables out loud (in funny voices) to college students, who couldn't seem to get enough of them.  (Made me wonder if they were deprived of being read to while youngsters).  One later told me that she purchased a copy of &quot;Squids will Be Squids&quot; for her former high-school science teacher, and he has been thanking her ever since.  Like Gary Larson's &quot;Far Side&quot; cartoons?  Then you're just gonna' love this!	2000-07-25
US	52988835	RB0J9ENX3XXA0	0028625684	890559132	The 15-Minute Gourmet: Noodles	Books	5	31	31	N	N	Not Authentic, but Certainly NOT Tasteless	This is a very attractively presented book on noodle recipes from a variety of regions.  That's a big plus.  I was originally looking for an Asian cookbook with noodle recipes, only to find that most included recipes  for deep fried dishes that I tend to avoid, with only a few noodle recipes.   Then I found this, and it offers variations on dishes from Thailand,  China, Japan, India,  Italy, and other regions.<br /> Note that word  &quot;variations.&quot;  Mitchell has simplified these recipes, and in some  cases, has done some bold cross-breeding (adding balsamic vinegar to an  Asian noodle dish, for instance). This will cause the  &quot;authenticity-minded&quot; to cringe.  Let them cringe, I say... these  recipes are not only delicious, but almost embarassingly simple to prepare.   That's a VERY BIG plus for many of us, who would rather make supper  quickly, and have more time to play with the kids, write in our journals,  or read &quot;Harry Potter.&quot;  Most of these recipes involve only  whisking a few ingredients in a bowl, steaming the noodles, and then mixing  in the sauce.  The result?  Very tasty, very attractive, and very diverse  noodle entrees to please the palette. True to the title, they can all be  made in 15 minutes or less.  You don't need a whole lot of exotic  ingredients either -- most of the more esoteric ones can be easily found in  a large grocery store or in an Asian specialty food store.<br /> I highly  recommend this book to single people who want tasty meals but don't want to  commit a whole lot of time to cooking for one, and on the other side of the  spectrum -- busy parents who don't mind a mild snub to traditionalism if it  means faster meals that are nevertheless scrumptious.  Happy noodle  cooking!	2000-07-24
US	52988835	R39AB8LIZINP1L	0553106503	589067427	Bones of the Master: A Buddhist Monk's Search for the Lost Heart of China	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Author's Subject Takes Charge	This is a very well written, sad, poignant and at times unexpectedly funny book.  Author George Crane brings life to his subject, Tsung Tsai, by presenting this story in a very &quot;conversational&quot; style.  He  captures Tsung's broken English in a way that is not only charming, but  becomes curiously congruent with Zen philosophy -- focused meaning with few  words.  Thus, this book is a quick read, but you may need to go back and  re-read passages and reflect upon them, for the profundity may escape you  the first time.<br /> A reader may be a bit disappointed if expecting a  travelogue type book that is rich in historical and cultural explanation.   While Crane does introduce a bit of that, almost in a &quot;teaser&quot;  sort of way, the story is firmly anchored in his relationship with Buddhist  monk Tsung Tsai, and their oddly moving friendship that manages to overcome  various cultural barriers. Because of this aspect of the book, I have  thought of using it as supplemental reading in one of the sociology classes  that I teach -- it does more to promote cross-cultural appreciation (NOT  mere &quot;tolerance&quot;) than many books that outwardly proclaim that  goal.<br /> Crane is honest, that's for sure.  He documents his ongoing  troubles trying to be a worthy &quot;disciple&quot; of Tsung Tsai, and even  in the end, describes incidents that reveal that he has not yet harnessed  his impatient desires.  Yet, he has at least, through his part grueling and  part amusing journey with Tsung Tsai, begun to see that the Path is there.   Excellent storytelling that may very well motivate many readers to seek out  more knowledge on Zen (especially the Cha'n tradition) as well as recent  Chinese history.	2000-06-13
US	52988835	R1GGOLWUXWDWIW	078686415X	738932366	Home and Away: Memoir of a Fan	Books	5	6	8	N	N	Five Stars for Chicago Sports Fans... All Fans	Scott Simon does indeed offer us a *fan's* memoir with &quot;Home and Away.&quot;  He marks his life with recollections of the ups and downs (and there have been more of those) of Chicago sports teams.  In doing so, he  manages to cast off the millstone of cynicism that pervades professional  sports nowadays.  Simon demonstrates how he drew great inspiration from his  sports heroes, even when they themselves did not live up to their public  images. There is nobility to be found in athletic competition, and it is  there if we search for it and uncover it, as Simon does.<br /> Yes, the focus  is on Chicago sports, but it seems that any sports fan who has suffered the  bitter disappointments and exalted in the triumphs will nevertheless find  much to enjoy in &quot;Home and Away.&quot;  Simon pays special attention  to the Chicago Cubs and their seemingly timeless march towards a far-off  &quot;next year,&quot; the colorful ,85 Bears who defied the corporate-gray  image afflicting many NFL teams, and of course, the 90's Bulls -- the only  sports dynasty Chicago has ever had.  Don't look for much &quot;dirt&quot;  to be thrown around here; Simon is a fan after all, and approaches his  subject with a &quot;golly gee&quot; sort of idealism of a kid.  Does that  make this less of a book?  Hell, no... Simon succeeds in showing sports  fans the &quot;kid&quot; qualities that we often forget, or worse yet, try  to deny.  In doing that, he makes a strong case that our child-like  attraction to the teams we root for is something to be remembered,  cherished, and passed on to future generations.  High fives for Scott  Simon!	2000-06-13
US	52988835	R34J6UM3RTUCY	0553106503	589067427	Bones of the Master: A Buddhist Monk's Search for the Lost Heart of China	Books	5	31	32	N	N	Author's Subject Takes Charge	First, let me say that this is a very well written, sad, poignant and occasionally funny book.  Author George Crane brings life to his subject, Tsung Tsai, by presenting this story in a very &quot;conversational&quot;  style.  He captures Tsung's broken English in a way that is not only  charming, but becomes curiously congruent with Zen philosophy -- great  meaning with few words.  Thus, this book is a quick read, but you may need  to go back and re-read passages and reflect upon them, for the profundity  may escape you the first time.<br /> A reader may be a bit disappointed if  expecting a travelogue type book that is rich in historical and cultural  explanation.  While Crane does introduce a bit of that, almost in a  &quot;teaser&quot; sort of way, the story is firmly anchored in his  relationship with Buddhist monk Tsung Tsai, and their the oddly moving  friendship that manages to break through various cultural barriers. Because  of this aspect of the book, I have thought of using it as supplemental  reading in one of the sociology classes that I teach -- it does more to  promote cultural understanding (NOT mere &quot;tolerance&quot;) than many  books with a direct goal to that effect.<br /> Crane is honest, that's for  sure.  He documents his ongoing troubles trying to be a worthy  &quot;disciple&quot; of Tsung Tsai, and even in the end, describes  incidents that reveal that he has not yet harnessed his impatient desires.   Yet, he has at least, through his part grueling and part amusing journey  with Tsung Tsai, begun to see that the Path is there.  Excellent  storytelling that will motivate many readers to seek out more knowledge on  Zen (especially the Cha'n tradition) as well as recent Chinese history.	2000-06-13
US	52988835	R3HEPRHM1CSG8J	0385487320	655343360	Frankenstein: New York Public Library Collector's Edition (New York Public Library Collector's Editions)	Books	5	2	3	N	N	This edition has a wonderful introduction.	There are, of course, umpteen book editions of this all-time classic.  Why choose this one?  Because it has a very well written introduction that does much to establish a sense of the personal challenges that Mary Shelly faced  while writing this gothic, incredibly prescient tale.<br /> Mary Shelly had  experienced her share of tragic circumstances, and she knew the pains of  loss of life, and how our deeply embedded desires to overcome grief can  lead us to hope for -- life out of death.  And to think that she was only  19 when she wrote this book, one that is, if anything, more relevant to our  times than to hers! I won't give anything away here, except to say that  knowing something of this young author's personal circumstances really  heightens appreciation for the book as well as her literary talents.  I  commend the New York Public Library for publishing this fine edition.<br />  The comperhensive introduction also traces the history of various  adaptations of the novel, including of course, the James Wale films from  the 1930s.  It appropriately points out how many of these adaptations  completely missed key elements of the story. In that respect, I must admit  it is fun to read the young readers' reviews, and sense their excitement in  discovering the deeper levels of meaning in this story.  Keep at it young  readers -- you'll gain more and more from this novel as you read it over at  different stages in your lives!	2000-06-01
US	52988835	R231CCUIITXTRK	0761986286	559567711	The McDonaldization of Society	Books	5	46	50	N	N	A Must Read for the Rushed, the Hectic, the Unhappy	So often we hear those words, &quot;I wish there were more time.&quot;  More time for minding the kids, more time for doing our work with the quality that we somehow know can be attained, more time for creative  pursuits.  Why this pervasive &quot;time deficit&quot; malaise?   Sociologist George Ritzer has some answers, and they are unsettling.<br /> In  &quot;The McDonaldization of Society,&quot; Ritzer takes the fast-food  industry and its principles of business as an organizational template for  emerging postmodern society.  He points out that the book in not a  criticism of McDonald's, nor even the fast-food business, but an analysis  of how fast-food organizational practices have permeated into myriad  aspects of our social lives. His marshalling of evidience for this trend is  compelling.  Using many examples from such disparate social institutions as  family life, higher education, the funeral business, health care, and  entertainment, Ritzer illuminates the broader trends within the &quot;taken  for granted&quot; daily routines of life.  He does so with a keen  sociological eye, but also with a very wry sense of irreverence that adds a  sardonic touch of humor to the expose.<br /> The fast-food model, according to  Ritzer, has a manner of pushing us towards ever greater reliance on the  fostering of quantity over quality, attainment of efficiency, creation of  predictability, and reducing much of our life experience to a coldly  calculated &quot;value.&quot;  As one reads further and takes in the  diverse landscape of specific illustrations for these trends, one begins to  see the &quot;McDonalized&quot; influence everywhere.  Then too, one will  also grasp why so many of us are bemoaning the demise of free time in our  lives, and how we have become unwitting captives of the mindless inertia of  &quot;I want it fast, I want it now, I want what's next&quot;  mentalities.<br /> Fortunately, Ritzer includes a chapter on what to do about  living in a &quot;McDonalized&quot; world.  He points out that we do have  choices, and responsibilities, shoud we choose to accept them. One can  learn to march to a less frantic pace of social organization, and recognize  that many of the promised &quot;rewards&quot; of such an accelerated  lifestyle are simply false and hollow.<br /> After reading a book like this,  one feels compelled to begin thinking through the relationship between  personal life and institutional pressures for faster living.  That alone is  a solid reason to have a copy of this book.  It will uncover some  unpleasant realities, but at the same time challenge one to get beyond the  defeatist attitude of &quot;well, what you gonna' do?&quot;<br />  &quot;McDonaldization of Society&quot; is indeed a wake-up call, but also a  consciousness altering work that underscores the important truth: just  because the rest of society seems to be running faster and without real  purpose, it doesn't mean that one must fall in line.  My advice:  Purchase  this insightful book, take time to read and think about it... read it, in  fact, at a favorite &quot;Ma and Pa&quot; type diner, where they won't  encourage you to rush out the door and will ask you to wait awhile while  the cook fusses over that blue-plate special.  A choice, you see.	2000-05-25
US	52988835	RRG8O26KIJ0FZ	0811816613	515604854	Legacy of the Cat 97 Ed	Books	4	12	14	N	N	&quot;Thumbs Up&quot; from one who is &quot;lukewarm&quot; on cats	Okay, let me admit up front that I am much more a dog-person than a cat-person.  Even so, this book is a real treat for anyone who is even mildly interested in the feline world.  The photographs are presented on  white backgrounds, and while this approach sometimes creates a  &quot;stiff&quot; appearance, that is NOT true in this case.  Photographer  Tetsu Yamazaki captures cats in all their focused alertness, grace,  playfulness, and dare I say... beauty. A photo of a silver Egyptian Mau,  crouched and demonstrating that not a single muscle is without purpose,  typifies the excellent presentation work in this book.<br /> The organization  of the book is clear, with an introductory section that depicts, with a  photographic chart, how the different breeds are organized.  Descriptions  often present some historical facts about breeds that are of real  interest.<br /> If you are a cat lover, you will most likely fall &quot;in  love&quot; with this book.  If you do not fancy cats as pets, and indeed  never wish to own one, you may very well still find this book to be  fascinating.  You may tell yourself that, thank goodness, these  &quot;cats&quot; never jump on tables or knock things off shelves... or do  they?	2000-05-23
US	52988835	R134B9NCVAMA8R	0811810690	311516844	Legacy of the Dog: The Ultimate Illustrated Guide to Over 200 Breeds	Books	4	16	16	N	N	Excellent Visual Introduction to the Canine World	This is a very nicely organized guidebook, containing near-perfect color photograhs of different breeds.  The photos are mostly presented on white backgrounds.  While this technique sometimes creates a rather  &quot;stiff&quot; and &quot;unnatural&quot; appearance of animal subjects,  such is NOT the case here.  Tetsu Yamazaki's talents as a photographer are  incredible -- the photos help amplify characteristic traits of the dogs,  such as alertness and self-assurance.  Indeed, in many cases they almost  appear to want to &quot;walk right off the page.&quot; <br /> The dogs are  organized by general breed category  (sporting, toy, working, etc), and by  browsing through the book, one quickly learns where to place different  breeds.  The descriptions are generally accurate, although somewhat brief.  Typical heights and weights are given (for either sex of the breed), but  these must be taken as approximations.  For instance, a male mastiff is  said to tip the scales at 180 pounds.  Yet it is not unusual for males of  this breed to exceed 200 pounds of rambunctious muscle.  So take the  measures as a very general &quot;rule of thumb.&quot;<br /> One of the nicest  features of this book is that it includes some breeds that are relatively  unknown in the U.S. and/or not recognized by the AKC. Breeds like the Shiba  Inu (from Japan) and the Kromfohrlander (Germany) are deserving of serious  attention, and these and others receive that here. It is also nice to see  the Australian Kelpie presented and accurately described as &quot;capable  of a lightning start and a quick dead stop.&quot; All in all, this is a  very lively and engrossing introduction to the canine world.  It's only  fault (and a minor one) is that it does not go into as much detail on  temperament as some other books do.  Nevertheless, it is a book that any  dog lover will turn to again and again, so it is well worth the purchase.	2000-05-23
US	52988835	R261FAA83SZSV4	0805058028	697303623	The Scrambled States of America	Books	5	18	20	N	N	Wildly Creative Fun for Kids (and Adults)	Imagine the map of the United States.  Each state different, representing unique landscapes, people, and landmarks. We so often get such images that stamp each state as having its own &quot;personality.&quot; Now here comes  Laurie Keller, looking at that map, and thinking &quot;Gee, wouldn't it be  fun if these states could free themselves from being anchored in place?   Wouldn't it be interesting if they could visit one another and get to  interact?&quot;  What an absurd idea!  What a PERFECT idea for a kid's  book!<br /> This is one of those children's books that can truly claim a  unique niche.  Keller enhances the zaniness with vivid, personality-exuding  illustrtions.  So many kid's books today try too hard to hook adult  interests, forgetting the unbridled imaginative capacities of young ones.   Not this one.  Keller knows that kids LOVE silliness, and she delivers.  Oh  yes, there's appeal here for adults, too -- providing they  realize that  they are just &quot;big&quot; kids.  A little bit of education too.  What  more can you ask for?  This is most assuredly worth finding its way into  your... ahem... &quot;kid's collection.&quot;	2000-05-23
US	52988835	R3O8KJ7RXXSU87	0805061924	810734707	Open Wide: Tooth School Inside	Books	5	16	18	N	N	Keller scores again -- with &quot;biting&quot; humor!	After &quot;Scrambled States,&quot; what else can a children's book author come up with?  Plenty, if you happen to be Laurie Keller, and envision the mouthful of human teeth as a &quot;school.&quot;<br /> Kids will recognize  many elements of the classroom setting here, including familiar  &quot;types&quot; of students -- both dilligent and smarmy.  The teeth  learn their oral hygiene lessons from Dr. Flossman, but not without many a  well-aimed pun and off-the-cuff wisecrack. A good dose of factual material  craftily sneaks its way into all the silly stuff.  Keller has a sure sense  of what holds the interest of kids.  I met her at a book signing, and she  said she was inspired by Dr. Suess, among others, as a child.  With this,  her second book, she is well on her way to establishing herself as a  children's author in the excitingly fresh tradition of her childhood idol.   But her style is all her own.  <br />Kids will cherish this book... if you  allow them to pry it from your own hands. (By the way, tell your dentist  about this one!)	2000-05-23
US	52988835	R3V52JCABPIAZB	0385474504	102488414	Whoredom In Kimmage: The Private Lives of Irish Women	Books	5	10	14	N	N	Irish Pub Tales... of Women, of a Place so Real	I've never been to Ireland, but after reading Rosemary Mahoney's splendidly eclectic tour of Irish women and Irish minds, I feel like I've had the next best experience to an extended stay on the Emerald Isle. Do  not be fooled by the title, this book is not a narrowly conceived analysis  of gender relations.  Pay attention to the words &quot;world of&quot;  because that is what Mahoney brings to life on every page of this highly  readable work. Wow, does this author ever have the gift for developing  sharply focused images that emit raw energy.  She speaks with women, about  their paradoxical relations with men, but also takes the risk of the  literary &quot;side trip,&quot; thus creating one of the most vivid  sensations of &quot;place&quot; that you will find on the printed page.   This is also a book of pubs, of warm and pungent Guiness poured by  bartenders whose youth still haunts them, standing on stone floors worn  down by storytellers and lovers of ages past.  It's about foreboding  castles and achingly beautiful landscapes.  It's about women, where women  can and always should struggle and perhaps prevail -- in the swirling  context that bespeaks the joy and sorrow of life, of Ireland.  Once reading  this book, you may very well feel that you have to make the trip yourself,  or even perhaps, that you already HAVE.	2000-05-04
US	52988835	RRIX3LW6NTXZA	0262692112	334013551	HAL's Legacy: 2001's Computer as Dream and Reality	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Accessible, entertaining overview of AI research	Most of us know of HAL, the famous (some would insist, infamous) supercomputer of Kubrick's sci-fi opus &quot;2001: A Space Odyssey.&quot;  In this book, editor David Stork uses HAL as a hypothetical reference point to present differing views on how the science of artificial intelligence  might some day approximate the higher-order thinking of HAL.<br /> The writers  represent diverse fields -- from philosophy to engineering to  communications.  That is a plus, for many similar efforts are too heavily  biased in the highly technical &quot;hard&quot; science perspectives.   Another admirable feature of this book is that the authors all write in a  fairly straightforward, easy to understand style. One gets the impression  that they were all forewarned not to &quot;get too technical&quot; with the  readers.  The result is an enjoyable overview of where artificial  intelligence research has brought us, and where it might go.   Interestingly, not all chapters are optimistic.  Indeed, several conclude  that we may be a very long way off from a computer like HAL, and one  asserts that such replication of human thought (and emotion) would be an  impossible task.  This is a welcome chage of pace from the often  &quot;gushy&quot; optimistic meanderings presented in books about  pioneering technology.  And finally, even if you didn't like (or didn't  see) &quot;2001,&quot; the book still informs and entertains.	2000-05-03
US	52988835	R1JX50T1XOOU9A	0452275334	564125943	Life on the Color Line: The True Story of a White Boy Who Discovered He Was Black	Books	5	11	12	N	N	Provocative, Puzzling...  American	Williams tells us a story uniquely American -- one that emphasizes, by daily grappling with personal turmoil, the absurdity of race as a social invention.  While the classification of race more often than not is strictly arbitrary, its consequences for an individual life are far from  that. Williams looks &quot;white,&quot; but his father is a light-skinned  black who had fostered the lie that he is of Italian descent.  All this  changes when a turn of bad luck dashes his business ventures and marriage  to pieces.  Sensing that he cannot take care of his sons alone,  &quot;Buster&quot; takes them to live with extended family relatives in  Muncie.  There, Greg and his brother do not merely discover the truth, they  experience how the truth can turn a world of white priviledge inside out --  and hurt like hell.  The boys are constantly made painfully aware of the  consequences of race, as they find challenges in coping with scorn from  both sides of the racial divide.  Greg goes on to overcome the obstacles,  and one must admire his sheer force of will.  Mike, his younger brother,  lives an altogether different story, succumbing to one temptation after  another.  In all of this, the awareness of race sears their minds like a  hot poker.  At the conclusion of this book, one really does attain a deeper  appreciation for the nonsensical underpinnings of America's preoccupation  with race.  This is personal biography that goes beyond self-indulgence,  exploring a wider social landscape that we all take part in and take  responsibililty for. Insightful storytelling of the highest order -- highly  recommended.	2000-05-03
US	52988835	R1QVHK5PM645PS	630576784X	884834373	For Love of the Game	Books	3	1	2	N	N	A Dominating Performance...	Billy Chapel (Costner), pitching what will be his last game, is so dominating in fact, that NOTHING gets to first base -- not even the romance.  That's the curious split-quality about this film.  It offers very  realistic and exciting baseball scenes, while at the same time plodingly  developing a romantic story-line through the vehicle of flashbacks while  Chapel succeeds on the mound.  An interesting cinematic twist, for sure.  Nevertheless, it fails because the romance, like a bunt foul, just doesn't  get the pulse going. <br /> Billy's flashbacks seem all-too intentionally  fashioned to cram in every cliche of the romance genre.  Jane is the cute  career-minded woman, but is ever-so reluctant to acknowledge any interest  in commitment.  She vacilates like crazy, then takes a chance and visits  Billy at spring training, unannounced.  You guessed it, she stumbles in on  him just as the &quot;other girl&quot;  (in obligatory briefs) appears on  the staircase and asks about the hair dryer.  Likewise, he stumbles in on  one of her writing assignments to find... (well you know already). There is  the &quot;surprise daughter&quot; from a previous relationship, which by  this time the audience fully expects.  And then there's Billy's soulfully  staring into Jane's apartment window (in the rain, no less) as he sees her  dim figure move towards the &quot;other guy.&quot;<br /> Okay, enough.  Let's  just get back to the drama of the baseball game.  This is done, mercifully,  at varioius junctures in the plot. One wonders how much more powerful a  film like this might have been if, say, Billy started the game havig to  make a momentous decision on the relationship. The flashbacks might then  have explored alternative scenarios, leaving the audience guessing until  the &quot;real&quot; decision (and outcome) is revealed at the conclusion  of the perfect game. That would have been  more like baseball -- running  the alternatives over and over in one's mind.<br /> Unfortunately, the movie  just drags on with the worn out &quot;I want her, I hope she wants me  enough to come back&quot; theme.  Maybe this is sufficient drama for a high  school kid &quot;in love,&quot; but it really strikes out with the more  knowledgable fans of love and the game.	2000-05-03
US	52988835	R1JSIBCRC6GLQG	038541885X	169008616	A Chorus of Stones: The Private Life of War	Books	5	30	31	N	N	A Mind-Expanding Reinvention of War and History	So much of history is centered on warfare.  And then, so much of warfare is historically rooted in a traditional perspective of leaders, politics, and other &quot;big&quot; events.  Is there a deeper and more complex truth to all this?<br /> Now, here comes Susan Griffin, and her ideas flow freely  out of the conventional boxes of interpretation.  In &quot;Chorus of  Stones,&quot; she examines &quot;small&quot; events, and especially the  internal dynamics of family relationships, and then links them to the  &quot;big&quot; events -- like the invention of the hydrogen bomb or the  decision to fire-bomb Dresden.  In the process, she shows the reader how  such wide-sweeping historical catastrophes like wars are inextricably  connected with small, often trivialized realities whose real significance  can go unnoticed, or even be repressed.  If you ever thought about the old  adage that &quot;we won't understand war until we understand why couples  argue with each other,&quot; then this book will fascinate you.  It's a  real shame that it hasn't received more attention, for it  challenges so  many of our notions about the separation of &quot;personal&quot; and  &quot;public&quot; lives. Fascinating through and through!	2000-04-24
US	52988835	R10I2WNY1ISC83	0767903692	332541339	The Heart of the Buddha's Teaching: Transforming Suffering into Peace, Joy, and Liberation	Books	5	24	25	N	N	Excellent overview of how to apply Buddhist philosophy.	Thich Nhat Hanh has written a book on Buddhist thought and practice that will appeal to those who want to gain practical insights from this great religion -- not necessarily a scholarly dissection.  And that's the beauty  of his work; he does not pick Buddhism apart as an intellectual  ego-boosting exercise.  Rather, he explains its essence, with clarity and  some humor, and offers many sound suggestions for putting Buddhism to daily  practice.  Isn't this what Buddhism should really be? Moreover, he has such  a knack for finding the appropriate metaphors to underscore key points.   Example:  When explaining the Buddhist principle of acceptance of the  inevitability and necessity of suffering for realizing compassion, he  likens this to visualizing the flowers that will some day emerge from the  center of the compost pile. <br /> Hanh is humble in his approach.  Never  preachy, he doesn't want the reader to convert to any viewpoint -- only to  find in Buddhism some tools for personal spiritual growth.  I admire Hanh,  a humble Buddhist monk in the Zen tradition.  He took great personal risks  in preaching peace and reconciliation at a time when his home nation of  Vietnam and the United States were embroiled in bitter military conflict.  He is not asking us to follow him, but to walk alongside him, and make our  own discoveries.  What a welcome change of pace from all those  &quot;sprirituality&quot; books that push political agendas or become the  basis of a commercialized enterprise.  This one is genuine.  Highly  recommended for those of any faith. His other books are very worthwhile,  too.	2000-04-22
US	52988835	R1126G0X81DUXR	0764301942	791162445	An Heirloom Santa: Carving and Painting (Schiffer Book for Woodcarvers)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Not for the novice, but well presented	I am on the finishing details of the featured santa project in this book, so I write from first-hand experience.  This book describes (with both photos and captions) techniques to do highly detailed and stylized Santa  carvings. You definitely need more than a benchknife and a v-tool to do  these projects.  Nevertheless, the progression of steps in the project is  logically laid out, and if you have some carving experience under your  belt, you'll do all right.  One criticism I have is that most of the  sequence photos on the project are in color.  For me, color is actually  distracting -- clear B&amp;W photos reveal much more the sense of depth in  a carving. There is a very good color gallery of other Santas, however,  that should inspire.  Painting technique is a bit complex, but yields  distinctive results.  One final thought...Bolinger's preface story about  leaving his software executive job to carve full-time can be a strong  temptation for a lot of us who like to work with wood!	2000-03-29
US	52988835	R5B7DVHREQ1HG	0764301942	791162445	An Heirloom Santa: Carving and Painting (Schiffer Book for Woodcarvers)	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Not for the novice, but well presented	I am on the finishing details of the featured santa project in this book, so I write from first-hand experience.  This book describes (with both photos and captions) techniques to do highly detailed and stylized Santa  carvings. You definitely need more than a benchknife and a v-tool to do  these projects.  Nevertheless, the progression of steps in the project is  logically laid out, and if you have some carving experience under your  belt, you'll do all right.  One criticism I have is that most of the  sequence photos on the project are in color.  For me, color is actually  distracting -- clear B&amp;W photos reveal much more the sense of depth in  a carving. There is a very good color gallery of other Santas, however,  that should inspire.  Painting technique is a bit complex, but yields  distinctive results.  One final thought...Bolinger's preface story about  leaving his software executive job to carve full-time can be a strong  temptation for a lot of us who like to work with wood!	2000-03-29
US	52988835	R1I91V7G0HX5OR	0764301942	791162445	An Heirloom Santa: Carving and Painting (Schiffer Book for Woodcarvers)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Not for the novice, but well presented	I am on the finishing details of the featured santa project in this book, so I write from first-hand experience.  This book describes (with both photos and captions) techniques to do highly detailed and stylized Santa  carvings. You definitely need more than a benchknife and a v-tool to do  these projects.  Nevertheless, the progression of steps in the project is  logically laid out, and if you have some carving experience under your  belt, you'll do all right.  One criticism I have is that most of the  sequence photos on the project are in color.  For me, color is actually  distracting -- clear B&amp;W photos reveal much more the sense of depth in  a carving. There is a very good color gallery of other Santas, however,  that should inspire.  Painting technique is a bit complex, but yields  distinctive results.  One final thought...Bolinger's preface story about  leaving his software executive job to carve full-time can be a strong  temptation for a lot of us who like to work with wood!	2000-03-29
US	52988835	R2L3N3KUXHXYL1	0553351397	130320779	Peace Is Every Step: The Path of Mindfulness in Everyday Life	Books	5	91	96	N	N	Peace Now is NOT Merely a Slogan	Hanh's book is a wonderful exhortation for all of us to find deep sprirituality in the midst of what we are NOW, what we do NOW, and simply the moment we call NOW.  I greatly admire this Buddhist author's humility.  He does not say &quot;follow in my footsteps,&quot; but rather invites us  to walk alongside him, and discover our own paths to  &quot;mindfulness.&quot;  This is a very welcome change of pace from all  the &quot;spiritual&quot; books that attempt to sell the author's own  beliefs about God, or worse yet, attempt to promote the financial  well-being of the author.  Hanh has the resume to prove his sincerity --  having taken great risks to urge reconciliation at a time when the U.S. and  Vietnam were torn by violent conflict. He adheres to the Zen tradition of  making no demands on what people choose to believe, or what religion they  should practice.  &quot;Peace Is Every Step&quot; is a well expressed  invitation to join him in this sincere spiritual quest.<br /> A word of  caution though -- you are not likely to benefit from the book unless you  actually *practice* the techniques Hanh so eloquently describes.  However,  if you do, you  will find peace, because it is already there inside of you.  (And his other books are very much worth reading too!)	2000-01-19
US	52988835	RIS9M0NEUSLTW	0449912167	21920687	The Centaur	Books	5	15	16	N	N	Simply, A Star in the Sky of American Literature	I first read Updike's &quot;Centaur&quot; when I was not ready for it.  Years later, and having become a father, I went back to it and was absolutely *floored* by the poignant honesty it so vividly conveys.  This  book is for anyone who knows the sorrow of wanting to feel closer to  another, and yet having life's circumstances conspire against that goal.   It is also for those who know that the great mystery in this life is that  our ideals are out there, beckoning to us, even though we know we will  never live up to them.  There can be pain in that, and in this case, too  much to bear. Updike is absolutely right: we are part mythical  (our  ideals) and part human (our flaws), and sometimes the tension in straddling  the two worlds is just too great. Anyone who supposes to know anything  about America's great literary tradition needs to have read &quot;The  Centaur.&quot;	2000-01-19
US	52988835	RCOX07JSA56DB	0152014349	995650845	December	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Beautiful Picture Book for Both Kids and Adults	Eve Bunting has teamed up again with David Diaz (illustrator) to create what will surely become a holiday classic.  Is the feeble old lady who visits the mother and her son who live in a cardboard box really an angel?   This story conveys, in an understated yet very accessible manner, the  importance of finding spiritual meaning in the most humble of human  experiences. This is a wonderful message of hope and the importance of  recognizing, and extending ourselves to, those in need.	2000-01-08
US	52988835	R3N7NYVTZTYCXC	068812299X	901952437	Stiffed: The Betrayal of the American Man	Books	1	28	36	N	N	&quot;Research&quot; goes &quot;Tabloid&quot;... Truth gets Stiffed	How sad. Authors now have a few conversations with  a few human subjects, jump to conclusions that appear to mesh with ther prior preconceptions, and then peddle the whole mishmash as some sort of social science  &quot;research.&quot;  For each of the troubled men Faludi describes in  this book, I can easily think of a dozen or more who have faced similar  circumstances in very different ways, and have very different views on the  matter.  I guess these men just don't count, since Faludi has not graced  them with her supposed journalistic saavy. I am a social scientist by  profession, and this is definitely not social science.  However, if you  think you might like the equivalent of a 600 page plus  &quot;Cosmopolitan&quot; article on men, then you may enjoy it.	2000-01-08
US	52988835	R318HUU2FLL560	0385484518	725864791	Tuesdays with Morrie: An Old Man, A Young Man and Life's Greatest Lesson	Books	4	6	7	N	N	Simple Truths, Beautifully Understated	I enjoyed this book, but I can also understand why some reviewers dislike it.  I think it has to do with expectations.  This is a &quot;philosophy of life&quot; book, but if you expect it to be a sort of intellectual sparring  match between the dying Morrie and his former student Mitch, you will  likely find it &quot;trite.&quot;  No, there are no complex mental  logistics here, nor are there many references to other great philosophers  of life (although Morrie makes loose references to insights from Buddhism,  and various friends and just a few authors). The truisms are simply stated  -- understated really.  (Example:  Morrie states that one of the most  important ingredients for a successful marriage is believing in the  importance of your marriage.)  This is the type of observation that already  tells us what we know, but the truth is that most of us do need to be  *reminded* of what we know in our hearts.  That's what this book does.  It  is the type of book that you read through quickly, but like to leave on an  endtable or such place so you can refer to it on occasion. It is not the  type of book that you use for a thesis comparing Morrie's views to those of  Plato and others.	2000-01-06
US	52988835	R23SQHNA3IPDN3	0805044701	414785395	The Time Bind: When Work Becomes Home and Home Becomes Work	Books	4	23	25	N	N	Disturbing Look at Psuedo-Families	Hocschild's book can be criticized for being limited to only one case study -- a real Fortune 500 Company. That aside, she presents disturbing findings that do ring true with other observations on contemporary  corporate culture.  Most significant is the way in which an organization  manipulates total quality managerial approaches to create work groups that  begin to provide greater levels of social satisfaction than our families  do.  This is not to say that Hochschild blames the corporate top brass  entirely -- she also points out the ways in which parents and spouses have  willingly shifted thier time allotment and devotional energies from familiy  settings to work groups.<br /> Hochschild's book not only asks what becomes of  the family if such a trend is prevalent, but also what becomes of an entire  generation that may be placing more and more value on work-related  achievements than on the nurturing experiences of family life.  While again  it should be pointed out that Hochschild's findings are based on a singular  case study, her observations have a disturbing resonance with other looks  at the fast and furious pace of attaining the American Dream.  I would  recommend this book to anyone who has questioned the supposed virture of  climbing career ladders, as well as to those who have suspected that  families are being gradually shoved out of the mainstream of American  social life.  Another work that is very related, and amplifies many of  Hochschild's findings (while taking a more general perspective) is Stephen  Bertman's excellent &quot;Hyperculture,&quot; also available at Amazon.   Perhaps we see here the beginning of the most significant issue of the next  millenium: how do we define what is of REAL value as the assault on our  time continues?	1999-12-22
US	52988835	R1PTD0FGQIUDW1	1573225681	87885862	Living Buddha, Living Christ	Books	5	10	13	N	N	A refreshing breeze of religious tolerance and insight!	Very insightful in the best of ways: a book that recognizes that religious truth lies in how one lives, not in what one professes to believe.  Both Buddhists and Christians will gain deeper appreciation for their religious  traditions, as well as a healing vision on the fundamental unity of the two  great religions.  And as for the one-star review, sometimes, as Buddhists  might say,  &quot;the curved surfaces of the camel and the peanut may be  the only thing that truly matters.&quot;	1999-11-17
US	52988835	R2TMI8X5LRS39H	0894807676	628757480	The Kids' Book of Chess and Chess Set	Books	5	25	26	N	N	Let's get this back in print!	The reader comments below are on-target, especially the one from North Dakota.  I found  this book at a local bookstore, sale priced with  a plastic chess set and board.  My 8 year old son took an immediate interest,  and was fascinated with setting up the strategies described in the book  with aid of the set.  This book not only instructs well, it has the equally  important quality of inspiring interest to learn the game. I do hope the  publisher will bring it out in another printing if it is currently out of  print. Kids deserve this kind of reading!	1999-09-24
US	52988835	R3DOLWI6QCFYLW	0385412150	707032291	Wisconsin Death Trip	Books	4	19	27	N	N	This Book Inspired &quot;A Prayer for the Dying&quot;	I am happy that a new edition of this book will be out in April. The recently published novel by Stuart O'Nan, &quot;A Prayer for the Dying,&quot; was inspired by &quot;Wisconsin Death Trip.&quot;  Fans of the  latter will absolutely have to check out O'Nan's haunting novel, based in  Friendship, Wisconsin shortly after the Civil War.  &quot;Prayer&quot; is  available at Amazon.com, and getting all sorts of rave reviews. Check it  out!	1999-09-16
US	52988835	R11QN11UUK4WB3	0140175288	298115880	Stranger to the Game: The Autobiography of Bob Gibson	Books	5	13	15	N	N	&quot;Oh damn, it's Gibson!&quot;	Yep, that's what I said as a Cubs fan in my youth.  Whenever St. Louis was in town and I checked to see who the starting pitcher for the Cardinals would be. Man, did this guy ever break my heart... again and again! <br />  Now, in retrospect, I can appreciate his greatness.  (Though the painful  memories of how he often made my Cubbies look like Little League hitters  still lingers a bit).  The greatness I admire most today, however, lies not  in his pitching talent (superb as it was). Rather, I see his real legacy as  one who refused to buckle under to the forces of racism; one who again and  again  challenged the flawed thinking of both overt racists and even  unintentional racists.  This book  reveals a lot about baseball, but so  much more about Gibson the man. He is in the same mold as other great  athletes, like Clemente and Ali,  who transcended their sport, and made a  mark on society as well. <br /><br />But some things are STILL unforgivable --  Why did he have to be so brutal on my Cubbies?!!	1999-05-06
US	52988835	R178OHRZCZVXWX	0931674085	84420731	A Cup of Christmas Tea	Books	5	22	22	N	N	True meaning of Christmas conveyed with elegant simplicity!	I've just received a copy of &quot;A Christmas Cup of Tea&quot; (on a chilly April day!) and have read it over  six times.  With each reading, this beautifully understated story of rediscovered joy in reaching out and  connecting with others seems to reveal a little more insight.  This is  truly the  &quot;Heart Sutra&quot; of Christmas theme books!  An absolute  must as a gift for anyone who has ever felt overwhelmed by the hubbub of  the holiday rush!	1999-04-23
US	52988835	R2TSEOAM3TG03D	0452272955	851641673	Writing for Story: Craft Secrets of Dramatic Nonfiction (Reference)	Books	5	34	34	N	N	One of the best: for fiction writers too!	Franklin does what may be the best job anywhere of inviting a reader to &quot;get inside a writer's mind.&quot; And if you're going to get so intimate with the mental gyrations of an author, why not a two-time  Pulitzer Prize winner? Here you will find both award-winning stories, in  their &quot;natural state&quot; as well as heavily annotated versions as  appendices. But you will also find page after page of sound advice on how  to structure, pace, and otherwise &quot;craft&quot; a piece of non-fiction  so it has dramatic appeal. While it may seem a bit of a formulaic approach,  Franklin offers persuasive rationale  for every writing step he outlines.   I would highly recommend this book for fiction writers as well as those who  are interested in journalistic challenges.  While the  &quot;inspiration&quot; books, such as Goldberg's &quot;Writing Down the  Bones&quot; and Lamotte's &quot;Bird by Bird&quot; are certainly vital for  fueling imagination and motivation, Franklin's &quot;Writing for  Story&quot; is the necessary complimentary work for putting all those  creative forces into an effective structure. Should be a standard reference  book for every aspiring (and experienced) author!	1999-04-01
US	52988835	RG2BH6O64X1MG	0887307833	33432567	Dragonfly: NASA And The Crisis Aboard Mir	Books	5	27	28	N	N	Perhaps the Best Book on Space Program in Years	What sets &quot;Dragonfly&quot; off from so many other books about space exploration is that the author understands that technology, unlike space, does not exist in a vaccuum.  Like few other authors on the subject,  Burrough realizes that complex technical systems, like Mir, interact with  the variables of human personality, cultural background of the  astronauts/cosmonauts, and indeed, the 'culture' which imbues organizations  like Nasa and Energia.<br /> This book is totally absorbing, and I agree  completely with the comment that it makes the reader feel, at times, as  though he or she is actually aboard the Mir.  In fact,&quot;Dragonfly&quot;  should be required reading for ALL personnel who will be involved with the  International Space Station. The author is right on target when he predicts  that such a project will experience inevitable crises, and that how these  are responded to will depend as much upon *human* as technological  understanding.<br /> Finally, I must put in the supportive words for  cosmonauts Tsibliyev and Lazutkin. These cosomonauts were heroes, facing  and overcoming difficulties much greater than those encountered by Glenn  and Gagarin. They deserved far better treatment upon return from Mir than  being blamed for circumstances beyond their control. This book shows how  much courage and ingenuity these men really had -- and that their safe  return to earth and the saving of the Mir was due to their brave efforts.  After reading &quot;Dragonfly,&quot; I have the deepest respect for the  leadership of Tsibliyev and Lazutkin.  I hope they are given a chance to go  to the new ISS -- their experience would be invaluable!	1999-01-19
US	52988835	R1GBAYKDWOMSPC	0374384312	917580587	The Wild Boy	Books	5	10	10	N	N	Wonderful Nourishment for Inquisitive Young Minds!	Every now and then, a parent runs across a children's book which seems to work magic on young minds. &quot;The Wild Boy&quot; is one such book.  Based on the true story of Dr. Jean-Marc Itard's attempts to  socialize...and humanize... a boy found inexplicably surviving in the woods  of Southern France, this book is thoroughly engrossing. <br /> One mark of a  great book for kids is whether it encourages the exploration of broader  questions than what can be immediately gleaned from the narrative.  This  book delivers on that score.  It presents the story simply, but in such a  way that the reader is encouraged to think about the moral complexity  involved. Many questions are raised in the young reader's mind, such as  &quot;Is it right to treat another human, no matter how uncivilized, like a  scientific object?&quot;  &quot;Where do our feelings come from?&quot; and  ultimately &quot;What does it mean to be human?&quot;<br /> If you like to  discuss with young folks the books you read to them, this one is perfect  for that purpose.  It has a way of igniting inquisitive responses, and even  ends with the vague but tantalizing words... &quot;I wonder...&quot;-	1998-12-04
US	52988835	R3JAS91TH9US9M	0385475179	873054356	Racial Healing: Confronting the Fear Between Blacks & Whites	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Get closer, get dirty, get free	Dalton's book is a wonderful plea for blacks and whites to get beyond assuming that social programs will &quot;fix&quot; our misunderstandings -- and get closer to each other through honest talk.  And he's absolutely  right when he says that such talk will ruffle feathers, cause pain, get us  &quot;dirty&quot; and frustrated.  But we each need to know more about how  race affects our daily lives.  For whites like me, that means getting to  understand the privlege of white skin -- the taken-for-granted ability to  navigate most social landscapes without anxiety, fear, or people closing  doors.  For blacks it means telling their story of racial oppression in  ways which go beyond simple &quot;us v. them&quot; dynamics. For both  groups it means a lot of earnest listening -- and learning.  This book  should be a weekly television show, featuring such dialog between blacks  and whites from all walks of life. What a healthy thing that would be!   Possible?  Maybe.  But hey, we prefer to ignore reality and be entertained  instead. This book is full of sage insight, but will those who really NEED  to read it do so?  That's the big question I was left with at the end.	1998-10-28
US	52988835	R31CF7PSMQIA8U	0312185758	80867101	Excalibur (Warlord Chronicles)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	A tepid ending to otherwise remarkable series	&quot;Excaliber,&quot; the third installment of the Arthur trilogy concludes great storytelling, and a remarkable reinvention of the King Arthur legend. What have I liked about this series?  Lots. The characters  and events are plausible, and not just cookie cutouts from previous  tellings of the tale. The books do not only entertain, they are full of  wisdom. Readers learn much about the unexpected twists and turns brought up  by political necesseties.  The role of religion in both empowering people  and leading to their destruction is explored. Leadership, and its tendency  to fall upon the hands of the ambitious yet morally corrupt is another  fascinating theme. <br /> I did have a few reservations about this last book,  however.  The first two-thirds of it is thrilling, and worthy of its  predecessors. But the last third or so seems to lose focus.  It is almost  as though Cornwell was struggling with several different ways to end the  story, became frustrated, and decided to throw most of what he had come up  with into the ending.  The battle scenes are described with gory detail,  which proved effective in the previous books.  Yet this time, they lose  their shock value, and become more tedious than anything else. <br /> Arthur  is very much in the background throughout. Indeed, Derfel comes through as  the major and most interesting character. Perhaps this is approriate. It is  almost as though Cornwell is trying to see Arthur off into the mists of  legend before the book is done.  The characters who know and love him, too,  tend to speak of him as though he is already becoming a memory.<br /> Despite  the minor disappointment in the ending, this still stands as a great work  in an outstanding series.  I will re-read all the books, and I'm sure,  learn even more from the wisdom which Cornwell imparts to them. Arthur and  his times seem in some ways so far off, and in other ways so contemporary.   That's the magic of Cornwell's trilogy.  &quot;Once and future...&quot;  indeed!	1998-10-27
US	52988835	R9O7N5A0LWYW3	1886913021	977150138	A Book of One's Own: People and Their Diaries	Books	4	13	14	N	N	Peeking through keyholes...	Peeking through keyholes of private lives. That's one feeling generated from reading Mallon's analysis of both famous and obscure diarists. Not that the scenes brought to our own mind's vision always ring with truth. Mallon offers fascinating commentary on how the records might reflect deeply seated frustrations, anomosities, or other sources of bias.<br /> One real pleasure of this book is its ability to convey, through snippets of diaries, the rich diversity of style which is possible in writing about one's own life and times. Despite some very different approaches, Mallon still manages to keep focused on the unifying theme of why people write in the first place, insisting that all diarists really expect that, sometime (and that may be after death), their words will be read and their voices will matter.  Hungry Mind Find Press is to be commended for re-issuing this fascinating little book, filled with some very big ideas about life and the challenge of making sense out o! f it all. Anyone who has ever written in a diary, or has thought about that pursuit, will find this read to be very intriguing indeed.	1998-08-03
US	52988835	RHK58YMSL2V47	067942850X	674569455	Into the Wild	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Disturbing and Highly Rewarding	The tragic death of Chris McCandless could be examined in two ways: condemnation of an arrogant and naive young man, or idealization of one whose voiced principles were put into real-life practice. To Krakauer's credit, he takes neither approach.  He offers a painstakingly objective investigation, attempting to build a meaning for McCandless' life by sifting through the clues rendered by those who he had known, loved, used, and simply crossed paths with. <br /> I can understand some readers' reaction to Krakauer's telling of an episode from his own life as an ego-driven side-trip.  I felt similarly, at first, until I realized that the author truly did feel that something of Chris, a.k.a. &quot;Alex&quot; lives deep within himself.  And that's the disturbing part ... there may well be a little of McCandless in all of us.  Maybe that's why so many folks were so quick to condemn him upon learning of his tragic end.<br /> By the last page, one perhaps understands McCandless a lit! tle more, and also gains some insight into some personally repressed yearnings.  Even so, this young man's fate remains enigmatic and haunting -- and I don't think Krakauer ever intended to reach a final conclusion about his psyche. <br /> I was glad to see that Krakauer is donating some of the proceeds from book sales to a Chris McCandless scholarship fund. In the end, this troubled idealist's death might go a long way in encouraging others to think more deeply of their  purpose in life, and the ways in which they might walk their own paths. That's why I am using this book as required reading in a college level sociology class which I teach.	1998-07-29
US	52988835	R2WGDEGH0G07TV	1577193474	258828395	The Art of Hitting	Books	5	5	7	N	N	Concise, Intriguing, Captivating Advice on ... Hitting!	My son wanted this book, but I ended up borrowing his bat, gripping it, trying to apply Tony Gwynn's advice. And I haven't played serious ball since high school!  That's the thing about this book, it  explains hitting with such fresh insight that you just can't help but want to go out there and take some cuts ... no matter what your age. <br /> This book is a must for any coach of youth baseball.  Hell, it's probably a must for a number of major leaguers as well!  Gwynn offers some mind-boggling advice, such as not thinking of hitting the ball, but hitting *through* it.  Along with this easy to understand science, you get some of the most terrific baseball photos published anywhere -- clear images which capture both the power and beauty of hitters doing their thing.<br /> There's a nice introduction by the last of the .400 hitters, Ted Williams, who thinks that Tony is the guy who can do it in the modern era.  The summary is entiled &quot;Old School,&quot; and presents the  p! ! hilosophy of Gwynn as a player committed to his team and his community.  He is, simply, a testimony to all that's great about this great game.  So whether you want to become a better hitter, or are just fascinated by this difficult athletic feat, or just interested in a player who is certain to become a hall of famer -- read this lively and enlightening book.  Just make sure you have a bat handy.	1998-07-16
US	52988835	RL36UOJP3LP1X	0684829673	484029130	Caught in a Rundown	Books	5	0	0	N	N	A line drive deep... deep to the funnybone!	Even if you're not a real afficionado of the mystery genre (and I am not), you will still find Lisa Saxton's &quot;Caught in a Rundown&quot; to be one  hugely entertaining read.  Like a Hank Aaron home run, the story starts out fast ... and rises and rises ... getting really laugh-out-loud funny in no time at all. <br /> Saxton has an excellent way of using dialog, and knows that what characters say and think is the most direct way to understanding them.  The dialog  is full of wit, energy and verve. <br /> Besides the mystery (and it does keep the reader  guessing), there is a very subtle interweaving of the importance of racial understanding in this tale.  Through the zany exploits of Jewel and Dee, we learn the importance of confronting our uncomfortableness with racial differences, and laughing at our own awkwardness in achieving new understanding.  By the end, we can clearly see that frienship transcends color ... in any inning of any game of life. <br /> Lastly, I am a male reader (my wife bought the book but I swiped it from her)... and found the two female characters irresitably charming.  And yes indeed, this book can be a riot of a movie -- just find actresses with the kind of chemistry that will do the book justice ... please!!!	1998-06-23
US	52988835	R2548E5BXFGEBN	0312951469	83189557	Practical Demonkeeping: A Comedy of Horrors	Books	5	0	1	N	N	Does YOUR demon act as funny as this?	This is a very fresh, comic-horror tale which zips effortlessly along a path of satire, goofiness,  exotic characters, and redemption of some very self-consciously flawed characters.  Except the damn demon, who... Well, he's funny, and he's... NO, I won't spoil it for you.<br /> Christopher Moore's first novel is amazingly polished, surprisingly creative, and, really hysterical.  The dialog is used very effectively to paint the zany characters and carry the story along.  As a result, you will most likely gulp this book down in one sitting.  Just be careful of any spiked pumps that might be lying around (you'll  have to read the book to get that last one!)	1998-01-21
US	52988835	R2IYXBEEDU7QKH	0060211334	979560236	Santa Calls	Books	5	27	27	N	N	Call on &quot;Santa Calls!&quot;	&quot;Santa Calls&quot; deserves to take a place among classic children's (age 2 - 104) Christmas books! I can't figure out the Kirkus review comment that this is somehow a take-off on &quot;Polar Express&quot; and &quot;more style than substance.&quot;  <br /> &quot;Santa Calls&quot; offers MORE than pretty illustrations (they are more like, art-deco &quot;way-cool.&quot;) And the story explores, among other things, sibling rivalry, the earnest hopes of children to be accepted fully into family life, the importance of sometimes keeping secrets, and the potential of redemption in misguided kids (Whew! Sounds like a good dose of substance to me!) Best of all, the Mrs. Santa is NOT the stereotypical &quot;Jonathan Winters in drag&quot; sort of depiction.  She is classy and stylish (what a coat and hat!) and has a noticeable tinge of self-confidence.  THIS is the &quot;Mrs. Claus&quot; that *I* want to believe in!<br /> The end of the book consists of two letters -- one from the central girl character and another which is a response from the Big Guy himself. They appear to be the real things -- conveniently pasted into the back cover of the book!  Nice way to get kids to appreciate the art of letter-writing at an early age.  Do call on this book, you won't be disappointed.	1998-01-16
US	52988835	R1DXLQEU4FNCBC	0060977337	407534724	Downsize This! Random Threats from an Unarmed American	Books	4	0	1	N	N	Moore's no expert, but who says the CEOs ARE?	Michael Moore provides great satire in &quot;Downsize This!&quot;  Beneath the humor, he does strive to construct a moral perspective on corporate America and its overemphasis on maximized profits, greed, environmental trashing, etc. It is no shocker to say that Moore tends to oversimplify many of the issues. Even so, why do some readers jump on him so ferociously for that? You don't typically see the same kind of indignation when those in charge of the corporations make &quot;bonehead&quot; statements to the media. We need Michael Moore and his satire, however flawed it might be, because, let's face it, the &quot;big boys&quot; who wear the suits, sit in the suites, and think that Langston Hughes is an upscale men's store -- they've been having their say far too often and for far too long.	1998-01-14
US	52988835	R1TX1LQY1CQ843	0471148539	610477998	Korolev: How One Man Masterminded the Soviet Drive to Beat America to the Moon	Books	4	11	11	N	N	The &quot;Moron on the Screen&quot; - Respect at Last!	In the movie,&quot;The Right Stuff,&quot; there is a scene where Lyndon Johnson is in a briefing room, viewing stolen film footage of the Soviet space program. As head of a White House Committee to get America's own space efforts back on track, Johnson seethes with frustration as he sees a smiling image of the mysterious Chief Designer.  &quot;Get that moron off the screen,&quot; he cries, as he can no longer take any more of what certainly appears to be gloating.<br /> The man on the screen is Korolev, subject of Harford's exceptionally researched biography. As it turns out, Korolev was indeed &quot;off the screen&quot; of world events of the time.  The very idea is so contrary to American impulses -- having a huge role to play in the glamourous, headline-grabbing battle of superpowers -- and remaining anonymous. This story is one of keeping what could have been a justifiably enormous ego under excruciatingly tight wraps.  Perhaps it is a story which Americans now need to hear, in this age of media hype and instantly manufactured celebrities.<br /> Harford tells of Korolev's rise to prominence in the Soviet space program with real passion. He does not, however, idealize, as he is careful to present many diverse opinions from many sources.  Most of these come from deep within that bureaucratic enigma of Russian space engineering and research organizations. All told, however, the  Chief Designer's life and times invoke tremendous respect and admiration.  The pressures this man faced, developing the manned space flights as well as military missiles as well as spy sattelites ... as well as coping with a paranoid leadership which insisted on optimum results with far from adequate resources. Job stress redefined on a new level!<br /> Harford's one miscue is that he often dwells too heavily on the technical details, citing scads of information which would most likely interest only the most devoted of space travel enthusiasts.  Nevertheless, the book offers perhaps the best look yet into the people who &quot;scared America&quot; in the early days of the space race, developing a human drama every bit as intriguing as our own Mercury, Gemini, and Apollo efforts.  It also stands as a late in coming, but necessary vindication for one man who willingly accepted being overlooked by the world -- as his cosmonauts soared in both the heavens and the world's imagination. Harford finally allows those of us who never knew anything about Korolev to say, &quot;Hail,Sergei! We never knew how brilliant you were!&quot;	1998-01-06
US	52988835	RYUG4V9PRL73Y	0316108812	830916634	Red Ranger Came Calling: A Guaranteed True Christmas Story	Books	5	27	27	N	N	A Cure for Cynicism	I'll confess right here ... it's usually tough for me to get into the Christmas spirit.  And most Christmas books for kids strike me as either lame attempts to rehash worn-out imagery... or stories which are really written for adults to recapture some &quot;warm fuzzies&quot; from their memory banks (never mind the kids, thank you). <br /> This book must contain some powerful stuff ... if it can get a cynical crumudgeon like me to read it over and over to my son.  Breathed begins his story with the moping, skeptical, don't-trust- anyone-too-much attitude which I immediately find familiar. But... then ... he magically weaves an unlikely tale which transforms that feeling into one of genuine hope.  The &quot;Santa&quot; character is wonderfully (and appropriately) ambiguous.  The reader,as well as the story's narrator, is not quite sure whether this guy is the real thing -- or yet another impostor.  He doesn't fit the mold, that's for sure.  But he does come through (at least it seems it was him) in the end.  Oh sleighbells!  Don't just take my word for it, read the gosh-darn thing, marvel at Breathed's quirky illustrations.  And then feel the swell of hope, which is more than just wishing for nifty presents. A sure winner for children of all ages!	1997-12-03
US	52988835	R1YVWPI7OOEAWV	0471144398	75366605	Countdown: A History of Space Flight	Books	5	16	18	N	N	The Right Stuff -- with the Right Facts!	This is a very well-researched, captivating, and intentionally unvarnished history of space flight as seen through the programs of the two big players in this venue -- the U.S. and Soviet Union.  Heppenheimer has done his homework with meticulous perfection, including a very probing analysis of a Soviet program which has for many years been veiled in secrecy.<br /> Even if you think you understand what the Cold War space race and its historical aftermath was all about -- think again.  &quot;Countdown&quot; sheds light on behind-scenes decision-making of this era, and in so doing, challenges many of the conventional historical interpretations.  Readers will learn how Kruschev ironically used the Soviet space program as a cynical and desperate ploy for propaganda value, ultimately selling the U.S.S.R. short on other vital technology development, and assuring its decendency to a &quot;second-rate&quot; world power.  There is also much interesting information on the &quot;mastermind&quot; of Soviet rocketry -- Sergei Korolev -- and his story is a rather sad one of bureucratic undermining of brilliantly conceived projects.<br /> Heppenheimer has a great gift for writing about sophisticated technological projects while also paying heed to how the human element factors into both successes and failures.  He is just as comfortable illuminating NASA's proudest achievements as he is berating the agency for the bureaucratic ineptness that led to such debacles as the Challenger explosion. (And, by the way, one learns that the Challenger came seconds close to  the same kind of disaster two years earlier). There is a sad, poignant description of the decline of the Soviet program, which evokes images of high-tech facilities being ravished by hoodlums and looters who no longer sense anything special about lofty space ideals. A test model of the Soviet sapce shuttle, Buran, is described as being displayed in Gorky Park, not far from a ferris wheel.  We are told of cosmonauts who recently asked their control center about onboard tools found in their craft -- and nobody knowing what they were for due to pilfered or destroyed records. The decline of the U.S. program is also assessed, although it is more one afflicted by lack of purposeful missions than any economic strangulation.<br /> In the end, &quot;Countdown&quot; proves that looking at things with informed hindsight can be just as exciting as the first unfolding of the events themselves.  Heppenheimer concludes by asking some hard questions about the meaning and purpose of spaceflight, advocating that NASA take a very different approach than its current course. All in all, this is a book for those who want an intimate and factually sound telling of the symbolically glorious, yet pragmatically dubious, history of man's entry into outer space.	1997-12-01
US	52988835	R28YHOQZOXXLVL	0316803081	745099329	The Cliff Walk: A Memoir of a Job Lost and a Life Found	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Something dark lurks here -- wish he wrote about it!	Why is it so easy to dislike Snyder, even while agreeing with many of his indictments of the false promises of a society obsessed with possessions and status?  I think part of the answer lies in the creeping realization, as one reads this memoir, that Snyder is attacking American success aspirations, in large part, because it is one way to put off a disturbing truth about himself.<br /> After reading &quot;Cliff Walk,&quot; I have all these nagging questions, which only seem answerable by assuming that, in his own way, Snyder was perversely attracted to his descent into the lowly ranks of the unemployed.  Why didn't he consider non-academic jobs at the outset?  He surely had writing talent that could be applied to other areas.  Why did he really get fired?  He never gives a complete answer, and one wonders if the  self-destruct impulse wasn't part of this, too. Why did he do so many of the WRONG things when his family budget dwindled?  Going to shopping malls to purchase &quot;frill&quot; gifts is not the best course to take when the family's food and housing needs are jeopardized!<br /> While &quot;Cliff Walk&quot; tells a story of the seemingly secure foundation of middle class good life slipping away, it is not one unique to Snyder.  To his credit, he does point that out again and again.  However, what does seem unique is that somehow, Snyder WANTED all this to happen.  I think that, had he been brutally honest and focused more on his own nihilistic tendencies, and less on accusing the system, this would have made an absolutely gripping, darkly unsettling memoir.  Because he instead throws blame at various external sources, we get one that is interesting, but, regrettably held back by its very ordinariness. The unwritten book buried within this narrative is the one I REALLY want to read!	1997-11-24
US	52988835	R2LKY5ATRQXC8M	038097505X	416150558	Island of the Sequined Love Nun	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Twisted, demented, and ... realistic???	I love Christopher Moore's books, and &quot;Love Nun&quot; is yet another testimony to one of the most refreshing literary talents in recent years. While lots of readers are expressing appreciation for the zany and perverse elements of Moore's characters and plots, I'm not so sure they've got it exactly right.  The characters in &quot;Love Nun&quot; are bizarre and outlandish, to be sure -- but they seem more like slightly embellished &quot;people from real life&quot;. That's why Moore is so damn funny -- you get the feeling that, at least in smaller doses, you've run into these kooky and schmoozy types before. <br />Another thing I like here is, as with his previous novels, Moore somehow manages to work in a moral point of view. Losers find redemption. Creeps get their comeuppance. Values of compassion and caring gently rise above all the hullabaloo -- like smoke over a raging fire. <br /> So is Moore really the loose cannon everyone seems to think he is?  Seems to me like he's a pillar of sanity who just happens to know how demented the world is getting.  And of course, how to  find our way through it all with laughter!<br /> As if this isn't the proverbial 'nuff said -- where else can you read about a talking fruit bat?<br /> (And hey, not so many &quot;10s&quot; -- we don't want our guy to get complacent, do we?)	1997-11-13
US	52988835	R1ZWGX9XGO4P0P	0553279378	146946583	I Know Why the Caged Bird Sings	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Race, gender, childhood ...but mostly HOPE	This is one beautiful memoir, standing tall above the multitudes which dwell on self-pity or obsessive self-interest. Angelou tells of her life in such a lyrical, affirming way that she speaks to the potential humanity in everybody. Her survival, despite tough challenges, is really about the survival of anybody who has had an inner self yearning to cry out, &quot;I matter!&quot;<br />     This book is about feeling and healing the emotional wounds of racism, to be sure.  But it is also about transcending that pain, drawing from it deeper levels of meaning about being truly human and truly alive. Or, as Angelou recalls her mother saying abuot the perversity of life, &quot;in the struggle lies the joy.&quot;<br />     One enjoyable feature of this book is that many of the chapters &quot;stand alone&quot; as self-contained stories in their own right.  There is a recollection of a night listening to Joe Louis squaring off with a white contender, with blacks feeling the hopes of their people alternatively sinking and rising with punches taken and punches delivered.  In another chapter, Angelou vividly outlines a child's on-target perception of a religious revival as nothing more than a vehicle for adult retribution fantasies.  Sometimes, chapters focus on simple yet eternal truths, like the one which tells of the insidioius pull which a ghost story can have on a child's imagination. Even so, the sum is greater than the total of the parts, as each recollection somehow moves the ongoing journey of self-discovery along. <br />     Angelou also abounds with delightful metaphors, introducing such expressions as &quot;harmony packed tight as sardines,&quot; and giggles that &quot;hung in the air like melting clouds.&quot; Anyone who simply enjoys the creative ways in which words can take us back to the unvarnished center of human experience will find much to admire here.<br />     Having read this first installment of a multi-part autobiography, the reader will look forward toreading the subsequent works.  Angelou is telling her story in the best way possible -- how she liberated that part of her self that speaks and breathes and lives for ALL of us.  What a great poet she is!  May her words continue to  inspire and affirm for a long, long time.	1997-10-27
US	52988835	RLRKTQW1TCU4B	0060975148	47785846	Blue Ruin: A Novel of the 1919 World Series	Books	4	6	7	N	N	A dark look into the mind of a gambler	Don't read this book expecting to get close to  entertaining re-creations of the 1919 Chicago  White Sox players. The main focus is on the  set-up man for the fix (who is also set up by a behind-the-scenes big money operator). &quot;Sport&quot; is a gambler and a dreamer -- but finds life  sadly sapped of vitality without the thrill of  risking what he is told to be important -- financial security, self-respect, even love. So why not the World Series? We follow Sport's narration through the thrills of seemingly arranging the biggest of gambling risks, but the road always seems to bend towards emotional letdown and emptiness.  I thought this book would be more about players and owners, but must admit it was an interesting journey into the mind of an addicted gambler. A bit clumsily written in some sections, but very original in its focus and conclusions.	1997-09-26
US	52988835	R9298549F6MOS	0312155239	310643527	Enemy of God (The Arthur Books #2)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	A spearpoint for modern conciousness.	With &quot;Enemy of God,&quot; Cornwell continues to rouse readers with his gutsy, historically probable, and   morally insightful reinvention of the King Arthur legend.  Like its predecessor (&quot;The Winter King&quot;),  this second installment of a planned trilogy conjures up the most fascinating magic of all --   the inner sanctum of the human heart. Read of bitter enemities, held in check by political necessity. Marvel at the determination of those who swear oaths, as their loyalty is put to severe tests of suffering and humilation. Feel the tension as Druid and Christian factions must come together in mutual aid for an all-out war against the menacing Saxons.   All this, and descriptive details which make this ancient Britain seem like it might still exist -- right there on the other side of the front door.        Derfel, the former Saxon slave and champion of Arthur, sits old and haunted by his youth.  But through his secret writings, he recaptures his youthful adventures with insights into love, lust, revenge, dark fears of mortality, and the hunger for honor in a world teetering at the jagged edge of barbarism.<br />               Cornwell does not only tell a thrilling tale grounded in historically possible soil. He endows his characters and their world with profound observations on life, death, and spirituality.  The reader is offered insights into our relationship to the dead, how religious orthodoxy precariously conceals spriritual doubts, and the    need for mythology to help people face loneliness.   And that's just the first three pages!<br />      If you like your misty legends to come forth in    bold, believable characterizations, then Cornwell's Arthur books are definitely for you.   Again and again, a reader will put the book down for a moment or two, and reflect, &quot;Yes, yes -- that's the way it may well have been.&quot; Exciting indeed -- but moreso when these legendary events   have something to say about where civilization is    today, and what has been lost in the process.<br />      Bravo, Mr. Cornwall.  You've given the legend of Arthur a finely honed spearpoint with which to    pierce our modern, myth-stripped consciousness!	1997-08-13
US	52988835	R2NLGH6374QQ0O	0874778417	845396079	Shaving the Inside of Your Skull	Books	5	45	45	N	N	spiritual self-help which puts YOU in charge	With so many spiritual self-help books out these days whose titles use words like &quot;soul,&quot; &quot;angels,&quot; &quot;God,&quot; and &quot;heaven&quot; it is a welcome relief to come across one with a title like &quot;Shaving the Inside of Your Skull.&quot;  Mel Ash's Zen approach steadfastly avoids dogma, and even insists that  the reader not believe anything in the book.  Yes, that's the point!!  This book is a call for personal action to help readers find what their own spiritual selves may be. No coffee-sipping, Sunday morning comfort zone of cozy reflection here.  Instead, you get &quot;razors,&quot; (ouch!) -- suggestions for ACTION to try out on yourself.  Caution: some may seem simple and even silly, but until you TRY them, you'll never realize what they might do to transform you.  So go ahead,and take a chance on getting up and DOING something after reading Ash's essays.  Create an invisible friend who writes you a letter (I did, without much expectation, but got an unsettling yet helpful result).  Go to a graveyard, lie down, and imagine yourself decaying as you seek communion with departed souls.  Bow to your microwave oven and other inanimate objects to learn an &quot;attitude of gratitude.&quot;  And... would you... could you... BURN one of your most prized possessions to better understand what you are without it?  This book is wonderful because it does not work unless YOU work on it. Ash gives readers ideas to jolt their consciousness, and eggs them on to ACT, ACT, ACT. If you're tired of self-help books which simply  prescribe &quot;new&quot; beliefs, or tell you more about the author's own vision of God, then pick up this book with an adventuresome spirit.  As one of the many wise quotes which appear in the book's margins asserts, we should be more distrustful of those who say they have found the truth, and instead trust those, like ourselves, who are seeking the truth. And if we ever stop seeking, thinking that we have come to find the end of our spiritual journey, then we have killed our souls.  Thanks Mel, for getting me off my duff and taking chances on finding my own path to salvation.	1997-07-16
US	52988835	R3BERZBS7S8SC3	0805037586	439117283	Mason & Dixon: A Novel	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Remoreseful and funny trek into America's youth	Don't fear the size of this book -- the chapters are many, but short and varied so as to encourage a quick reading pace. The dialect is pretty easy to get used to; by around 100 pages it becomes quite charming.  But the main reason to read Pynchon's latest is that it captures a time when America represented exhuberant hope and the promise of unbounded opportunity to those who let their spirits soar.  Much of this book is quite funny; the anachronistic telling of the story by the narrator (Revd. Cherrycoke)takes many unexpected turns.  He embellishes his yarn shamelessly, and obviously much of this simply could not have happened (though much of it could). On another level, this story leaves you with the sad realization of how stifled the American spirit has become in contemporary times.  So you laugh, but then discover the gnawing pain behind the humor -- we no longer see the grand horizons, no longer feel the elation in discovering things wondrous.  Oh to return to the America, where as Pynchon writes at the end, &quot;You won't need a telescope to see the stars.&quot; and &quot;The Indians know Magick.&quot;	1997-07-11
