US	52986477	R24EW9MSLO0I10	0345430786	122062535	Manifold: Space	Books	5	8	10	N	N	Manifold arghhhhhh!	I think I would really enjoy a physics class taught by Mr Baxter, since the man clearly knows his science, knows which sources to go to and is able to synthesize them in ways that he can explain them without your head exploding.  Also, he's able to extrapolate those ideas into some interesting scenarios that suggest some fun possibilities and open the mind up for more speculation.  Alas, he's not able to translate that yet into novels with real emotional heft and the bigger his ideas get, the more the story tends to leave you behind.  This book is the follow-up to Manifold: Time and as the title implies, while this book still requires great leaps in time, this time out we're more about moving outward than jumping forward.  Jumping off the conclusions set by the last novel, Baxter essentially hits the reboot button and drops us in a totally different universe, although some of the characters are still the same.  The most notable is our hero Reid Malenfant, who is older than the first book but just as obsessed with mankind securing their destiny beyond the stars.  Instead of wondering how we're going to survive, however, he's more interested in why they aren't any other intelligent races in the galaxy, or at least why it seems that way.  Meanwhile, an intelligent race does apparently decide to move into the solar system from far away and that's where the fun starts.  Always willing to boldly go (split infinitive and everything), Reid disappears into a portal that was left by some prior alien race and the voyage of discovery begins.  As I mentioned before, Baxter is fiend when it comes to idea and everything is well thought out.  From the weird robot-like Gajin that show up, to all the other aliens that pop in every so often, to the effects of time and history when extrapolated thousands upon thousands of years into the future, it's like he's taking you through an exhibit hall in his mind, showcasing all the fun science-based ideas he has and dressing them up as science-fiction.  However, it doesn't take long before the reader quickly starts to lose the plot and everything begins to drown in a sea of glorious information.  There are gates that allow people to travel but since it's lights-speed, time dilation still applies and when they come back to Earth, it's hundreds of years in the future each time, leading to effects that aren't much different from what the soldier suffered in Joe Haldemann's famous The Forever War, namely culture shock and the sense of dissociation and alienation.  Things progress and Baxter shows us people on the moon, people on different planets, different aliens in other star systems, the galaxy, the picture keeps blowing up bigger and bigger until you almost can't contain it.  But we don't really ever find out what it all means.  The cover copy on the back of the book suggests that the main thrust of the plot has something to do with the reasons why intelligent life flares up and then dies out, leaving artifacts scattered all around the galaxy that other races pick up on, and Baxter sprinkles plenty of hints that the solar system was previously used by other races for various purposes, but it's buried under such a sea of static that it's hard to sort through it all.  Especially since Baxter seems to be acting like an excited child, throwing each new idea in our face almost as he comes up with it, \\"You like this?  Well how about this?  Or this?  Or even this?\\" until you're almost numb from it.  By the time he gets around to answering the central question, almost five hundred pages later, you're been dazzled by as many marvels as science can handle but feeling strangely empty at the same time.  It almost feels like \\"Who cares?\\" and regardless of anything else, I doubt that's the reaction he intended.  Still, he gets an A for effort and the individual moments are extraordinary, showing that he's a mind possessed of a far vision and the fact that he's able to take all this knowledge and assemble it into something resembling a story is amazing in itself.  But when you add it all up, it's not quite everything it's supposed to be.  Hard science junkies will probably eat it up like the candy it is, everyone else looking for slightly more emotional content may find it rough going at times but for anyone who wants to see if all those complicated ideas that involve words with too many letters actually might mean something, well this is as good a place to start as any.thing resembling a story is amazing in itself.  But when you add it all up, it's not quite everything it's supposed to be.  Hard science junkies will probably eat it up like the candy it is, everyone else looking for slightly more emotional content may find it rough going at times but for anyone who wants to see if all those complicated ideas that involve words with too many letters actually might mean something, well this is as good a place to start as any.	2005-10-10
US	52986477	R48TBQGAM1RLN	034543076X	138364901	Manifold: Time	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Watch the moon!	Hard SF is never really about the characters, it's about jamming as many mad ideas that have some basis in science into the closest thing you can get to a plot and then sitting back and watching the readers' heads explode as they try to process it all.  Baxter has been doing this for some time so by now he knows how to ease the readers into it gently and let the pressure build without the inevitable eruption.  One thing that helps set him apart from other SF writers of the day is his sense of scope, he's a man who can write about scenarios stretching out for billions upon trillions of years and make it all seem plausible.  The type of writer where galaxies collide and stars live and die all in the space of a few pages.  This book is no different, although where it starts and where it ends are two totally different things.  What we have is a typical Heinleinesque lead character (Reid Malfenant, a plucky, can-do American inventor-type) who decides that the best way to ensure the future of humanity is to get into space NOW and colonize the whole galaxy as fast as we can.  The close minded types at NASA and the government think he's nuts however and try to shut him down.  Meanwhile, an odd professor Cornelius comes to him and tells him of his theories that society is going to collapse in two hundred years anyway so he needs a better plan.  And then things start to get weird.  Baxter throws out ideas like a mad scientist playing fifty two pickup, all over the place and without caring who he hits in the process.  It's all here.  Contacting our future descendants to get a clue on how to direct the future toward their particular timeline?  Done!  Intelligent squids released from the earth to go explore ahead of us?  Of course!  Hyper-intelligent children suddenly being born and apparently enacting some kind of grand plan?  Hey, why not?  Exploring the kinds of concepts that might give headaches to a whole room of quantum physicists?  You got it!  For people with even a moderate interest in science, this book is constantly fascinating on a level of learning, as Baxter explains a lot of hard to grasp concepts that won't put you on a level ground with the debating wing of the Quark Club, but at least gives you some idea of what all the fuss is about when it comes to all those high-falutin' ideas about Heat Death and manifold time and so on.  On a plot level, however (and this is an across the board problem with Hard SF, not just Baxter) the book doesn't always connect.  While the gradual shift from earthbound drama to mind blowing cosmic spectacle feels natural, not all of the various subplots are given enough room to develop completely and feel rather truncated as a result.  The stuff with the squids?  Sort of abandoned, having served its purpose.  He never really convinces me that people would really go out of their way to beat the crap out of the super-smart kids simply because they're super-smart (although human prejudices shouldn't surprise me, perhaps I'm just naive).  Nor do I really buy the planetwide response to the thought of everything ending in two hundred years.  With people unable to focus on anything beyond who the next celebrity of the day is going out with, I find it hard to believe that everyone would suddenly go nuts and be gripped with existential crisis.  But that's just me.  Toward the end things get grandly cosmic and it all starts to slip out of control.  It's glorious in its own way because Baxter simply goes nuts with ideas but at the same time, it's a mess on more than one level.  Still, he gets bonus points for the slight of hand with the \\"downstreamers\\" actual intentions, what people assume may not actually be true.  So while the book never wholly convinces, it never slows down either and sure they may not be the most three dimensional people in the world, but they carry the story well enough and at the end, with a novel like this, it's the ideas that matter most.  And the concepts, man, the concepts.  If thethought of a story that spans from one end of time to the other doesn't exactly thrill you, then this probably isn't the book for you.  For everyone else, grab a couple of aspirin and dive right in.thought of a story that spans from one end of time to the other doesn't exactly thrill you, then this probably isn't the book for you.  For everyone else, grab a couple of aspirin and dive right in.	2005-09-24
US	52986477	R3AY3K6V0KRK0Y	0385491034	893718356	The Robber Bride	Books	5	7	10	N	N	It's all very nice, but what does it mean?	I think Margaret Atwood is at her best when she's writing walking train wrecks of people.  Her ability to analyze a person even as she's taking their life apart piece by piece is second to none and part of the joy is watching her artful deconstruction, trying to guess what you're going to end up with when it's all over.  It's not as exciting when she's already broken them down and she's showing us how they got to that point, although it still has its moments.  This story tends to veer more toward the latter, although her way with prose makes up for any of the slower moments.  In this tale, we have three friends, Tony, Roz and Charis who all stayed in the same dorm building in college but weren't really friends back then.  What unites them and drives them into friendship is a common enemy, Zenia, another girl who lives in the same building and comes to know them separately.  She torments each woman and then years later dies, until the day when they're all eating in a restaurant and Zenia walks right by.  From there, we're launched into a series of flashbacks, centering on each individual woman and how Zenia entered her life, messed with it royally and left each woman to pick up the pieces.  In the meantime we also get bits of each woman's early life and how it shaped them and perhaps allowed them to let Zenia just walk all over them.  These are the meat of the story, where Atwood really shapes the characters, gives us their histories and takes them down the road where they all meet and become friends.  At the center of each story, lurking there like some malevolent spider is Zenia herself, insinuating her way into their lives and then wrecking things as best she can, by not caring, by lying and deceiving and playing on their sympathies, using them until she doesn't need them anymore and then just walking away from the mess.  Zenia is in fact so frightening that it almost becomes outlandish, she becomes less a woman than a force of nature, hardly believable as a real person, because she's so stunning and so confident and can just take whatever she wants . . . after a while it becomes almost unreal.  Which is the point, since Zenia has had such an impact on the woman that they perceive her as something more than just a person, they build her up into this unstoppable wall of a woman, who just steamrolls over everything in her path because they perceive her as being so perfect that they're rendered paralyzed, letting her do whatever she wants.  On the reader's end, you may find yourself saying \\"Yeah right\\" over the hundredth description of Zenia's awesome power, but in the context of the story it makes perfect sense.  The flashbacks for each woman suffer a bit due to a structure that mimics all the others, in that each woman has a man close to her ruined by Zenia, stolen away and discarded, generally due to some lie that Zenia has told to get closer to the woman in question.  Tony's flashback comes across as the most fully realized (she's the most stable), with Roz's as a close second and Charis' flaky New Age posturing getting a bit tedious after fifty pages of seeing auras and the like.  After watching three flashbacks of Zenia essentially doing the same thing three times, while the other woman first convince themselves that everything is okay and then gradually realize that everything is very much not okay, you start to wonder where this is all going.  The plot continues in the present day, as the ladies try to figure out why Zenia is back, leading to an interesting examination of the truth and an ending that you probably won't see coming but is inevitable nonetheless.  Oddly enough, for all the jumping around the novel feels linear, where it succeeds is in Atwood's portrayal of Zenia, making her a different monster for every woman, just consistent enough that you know it's the same person each time but totally obscuring any kind of truth about her, leading the reader to make their own conclusions about her by contradicting every single fact about her until you have no idea what's true anymore.  By the end the story is more about the examination of a friendship and how they tend to come from the oddest sources.  Still, while Atwood's prose hits it usual high marks (her extended metaphors are still tops in contemporary literature) the characters don't feel as fully developed as they normally, or maybe I just can't emphasize with them (I may not be the target audience, although I guess that shouldn't matter) but they just seem silly in spots to me, making horrible decisions and being so blinded by Zenia that you wonder where their brains are.  Most of the man don't come off too well either, whether it's by being uninteresting (West), a total jerk (Mitch) or just kind of taking up space (Larry, although he gets more interesting by the end).  Couple that with the kids (Roz's twins, I'm sorry, I find them really annoying) and the only real standout character was Tony.  Her scenes are the best written and the heart of the book seems to be there, with everything else simply being variations on a theme.  Atwood gets credit for creating flawed characters but at some points they're so flawed you wonder how they function (especially when contrasted with the perfectness of Zenia) which may be what she's trying to display but even if she's right that doesn't mean I have to care.  By the end I was sure she was trying to tell me something but I really don't know for sure what it was.  That all truth and perception is illusionary and prone to interpretation?  Who is Zenia?  None of us can really say and Atwood dangles the clues without putting it together, a deliberate act on her part but one that leaves the reader kind of empty at the end, waiting for a real conclusion that will never come.  Elegantly and flawlessly written, but lacking that bit of punch in the gut that come with her best books, it's not the best place to start but for longtime fans, you'll probably enjoy this just as much as the rest of her work.y single fact about her until you have no idea what's true anymore.  By the end the story is more about the examination of a friendship and how they tend to come from the oddest sources.  Still, while Atwood's prose hits it usual high marks (her extended metaphors are still tops in contemporary literature) the characters don't feel as fully developed as they normally, or maybe I just can't emphasize with them (I may not be the target audience, although I guess that shouldn't matter) but they just seem silly in spots to me, making horrible decisions and being so blinded by Zenia that you wonder where their brains are.  Most of the man don't come off too well either, whether it's by being uninteresting (West), a total jerk (Mitch) or just kind of taking up space (Larry, although he gets more interesting by the end).  Couple that with the kids (Roz's twins, I'm sorry, I find them really annoying) and the only real standout character was Tony.  Her scenes are the best written and the heart of the book seems to be there, with everything else simply being variations on a theme.  Atwood gets credit for creating flawed characters but at some points they're so flawed you wonder how they function (especially when contrasted with the perfectness of Zenia) which may be what she's trying to display but even if she's right that doesn't mean I have to care.  By the end I was sure she was trying to tell me something but I really don't know for sure what it was.  That all truth and perception is illusionary and prone to interpretation?  Who is Zenia?  None of us can really say and Atwood dangles the clues without putting it together, a deliberate act on her part but one that leaves the reader kind of empty at the end, waiting for a real conclusion that will never come.  Elegantly and flawlessly written, but lacking that bit of punch in the gut that come with her best books, it's not the best place to start but for longtime fans, you'll probably enjoy this just as much as the rest ofher work.	2005-09-12
US	52986477	RI0CBEAEPW945	0393312836	483124263	A Clockwork Orange	Books	5	43	53	N	N	Not as difficult as you have heard	I knew about this book way before I actually went out and bought it (of course there was a gap between buying it and reading it, but that's another, utterly irrelevant, story), being aware of most of the basic facts about it, the general plot and so forth.  I've never seen the movie, although I've heard it's rather ultraviolent, which seems to be appropriate.  The thing that both attracted me and made me shy away from the novel though was the prose itself . . . for those who aren't already aware, Burgess sprinkles the novel liberally with a made-up slang that the main character uses.  I had seen a few pages at my local library and thought, \\"Crap, this isn't going to make any sense to me at all\\".  But it does, somehow.  There might actually be some editions floating out there with a glossary of sorts, giving you a clue as to what the more obscure slang terms might mean but you don't really need it.  Reading the novel, it's very easy to figure out what's going on and the text isn't impenetrable at all.  Most of the slang you can figure out via context and for the linguistically agile among you, I believe most of it is derived from Russian, mixed with some Britishisms and other stuff that I'm not smart enough to figure out.  The end result of this is that it gives the book a weird sort of driving rhythm, half the words seem made up but it flows anyway and I never had any trouble figuring out what was going on at any given point (not that you don't have to read carefully, but it's not Finnegans Wake or anything).  So that's that.  But what is it about?  The story is narrated by Alex, a teenager who inhabits a future Britain that has fallen into dingy decay, gangs walk the streets at night committing all sorts of violent acts, there hardly seems to be any hope and the government has become rather oppressive.  But Alex doesn't care because he's quite enjoying himself.  The book is a lot funnier than you might think and the violence (it's ample but not graphic) is almost slapstick.  Alex and his pals spend the first third of the book (it details a typical night) basically walking around and beating up everyone they see, the narration makes it clear that Alex is intelligent enough to know what he's doing but he likes it and would like to keep doing it.  One incident lands him in prison and while there and serving a long sentence, he's given a chance to get out early.  All he has to do is submit to a new procedure that will make him nonviolent and he can go back into society.  That procedure and its consequences drive the rest of the book, showing how things can seem to get better while actually getting worse.  It's a testament to Burgess' skill that he manages to make Alex a nearly sympathetic character, to the point where I started to feel bad for him, especially in the scenes where he's denied the joy of his beloved classical music.  The moral dilemma he poses is an interesting one, questioning whether society really becomes better if you take away free will.  The edition I have (and most recent editions, I'm sure) restores the previously \\"lost\\" final chapter . . . it was cut from the American edition for various reasons and it and the actual final chapter end the story on two utterly different notes.  I prefer the real final chapter, I think it closes the book on a reflective note, rather than the implied middle finger of the prior chapter, and I think it's more faithful to Burgess' intent.  But your milage may vary and if you really disagree just stop before you get to the end.  I don't know if it's the best Burgess book but it's certainly the most famous and quite the reading experience for those who prefer more experimental prose styles.  It was published forty years ago but still feels contemporary and it certainly worth reading even today, in a future that Burgress might not have imagined but may be closer to his than we suspect.lapstick.  Alex and his pals spend the first third of the book (it details a typical night) basically walking around and beating up everyone they see, the narration makes it clear that Alex is intelligent enough to know what he's doing but he likes it and would like to keep doing it.  One incident lands him in prison and while there and serving a long sentence, he's given a chance to get out early.  All he has to do is submit to a new procedure that will make him nonviolent and he can go back into society.  That procedure and its consequences drive the rest of the book, showing how things can seem to get better while actually getting worse.  It's a testament to Burgess' skill that he manages to make Alex a nearly sympathetic character, to the point where I started to feel bad for him, especially in the scenes where he's denied the joy of his beloved classical music.  The moral dilemma he poses is an interesting one, questioning whether society really becomes better if you take away free will.  The edition I have (and most recent editions, I'm sure) restores the previously \\"lost\\" final chapter . . . it was cut from the American edition for various reasons and it and the actual final chapter end the story on two utterly different notes.  I prefer the real final chapter, I think it closes the book on a reflective note, rather than the implied middle finger of the prior chapter, and I think it's more faithful to Burgess' intent.  But your milage may vary and if you really disagree just stop before you get to the end.  I don't know if it's the best Burgess book but it's certainly the most famous and quite the reading experience for those who prefer more experimental prose styles.  It was published forty years ago but still feels contemporary and it certainly worth reading even today, in a future that Burgress might not have imagined but may be closer to his than we suspect.	2005-08-24
US	52986477	R1XOYC4ZI3H89R	0156002086	253440654	This Is the Way the World Ends	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Funny but not in a ha-ha way	A lot of writers, when trying to do the post-nuclear story thing, tend to go for stark realism, trying to make the situation as brutal and as tangible as possible, to give the reader the sense that this is What Nuclear War Is Actually Like.  Stuff like On the Beach derives its quiet horror because it feels like it could be happening, that if the events that caused the end of the world actually transpired, this is how it would go down.  Of course all of that is only our best guess, because the only real experience we have with nuclear war are the bombings in Japan and that's from the entire world deciding to annihilate itself in a storm of mushroom clouds.  So here Morrow seems to be taking the opposite tactic and steering directly into absurdity.  This is a book you take seriously and yet not take seriously.  For every genuinely horrifying moment, Morrow seems to be undermining himself with another scene that seems to suggest that he sees it all as a big \\"who cares anyway?\\" joke.  The plot is a many jointed thing, starting off when everyman George Paxton, worried over nuclear war, tries to get a survival suit for his young daughter.  In the process he signs a paper saying he's complicit in the buildup to nuclear war.  Shortly after, the war occurs and humankind is basically wiped out, except for six people who it turns out have been chosen for various reasons not to get wiped out.  Morrow outdoes himself with the scenes of nuclear disaster which are legimately horrifying and certainly make the book feel grounded in reality.  Alas, and this is where he loses most people who are reading the novel, the whole thing veers off very quickly into a very strange place.  It turns out that the six people (including George) have been captured by the \\"unadmitteds\\", basically people who would have been born had the entire world not collapsed in fiery holocaust.  They're mad, of course, that they don't get a chance to be born and thus want to take it out on the few people who are left and make them stand trial and try to get them to explain why they did nothing to stop any of it.  Now, granted, the reader probably should have saw it coming, since the novel is bracketed by scenes of Nostradamus explaining the whole story to some boy several hundred years prior . . . that alone should have told you the book isn't going to be strictly realistic.  Morrow does make the plight of the unadmitted rather poignant, although he doesn't get as much milage out of it as he probably should since the trial itself turns out to be rather flippant, devolving into semantic debates that nobody seems to take very seriously, even when people say they are.  Morrow's forte here is bleak humor, the kind where someone's arm is chopped off and you're compelled to laugh at it.  For all those folks who thought Slaughterhouse-Five was hilarious, this is along the same lines, it's funny but at the same time it's not, you only laugh because you're glad it's not happening to you.  However, the shifts between dark, dark humor and honest emotion (and he has quite a few tearjerking moments) tend to lessen the book's impact and make it feel inconsistent and the end point seems to be \\"what does it matter anyway?\\"  That, coupled with some other sideplots involving George's attempt to repopulate the race and a crazy guy making historical robots, make the book feel more scattershot than anything else at times.  Still, Morrow gets credit for striking a different tone than anyone else and definitely for trying something different, there's only so many slow-moving novels one can take of people getting ready to die or watching civilization crumble.  So while the novel isn't entirely successful, fans of Morrow may find it worthwhile (it's a quick read too, I finished it in maybe six or seven hours) and people looking for a novel of the endtimes that's a bit offbeat and fleetingly touching may find something to recommend here.left and make them stand trial and try to get them to explain why they did nothing to stop any of it.  Now, granted, the reader probably should have saw it coming, since the novel is bracketed by scenes of Nostradamus explaining the whole story to some boy several hundred years prior . . . that alone should have told you the book isn't going to be strictly realistic.  Morrow does make the plight of the unadmitted rather poignant, although he doesn't get as much milage out of it as he probably should since the trial itself turns out to be rather flippant, devolving into semantic debates that nobody seems to take very seriously, even when people say they are.  Morrow's forte here is bleak humor, the kind where someone's arm is chopped off and you're compelled to laugh at it.  For all those folks who thought Slaughterhouse-Five was hilarious, this is along the same lines, it's funny but at the same time it's not, you only laugh because you're glad it's not happening to you.  However, the shifts between dark, dark humor and honest emotion (and he has quite a few tearjerking moments) tend to lessen the book's impact and make it feel inconsistent and the end point seems to be \\"what does it matter anyway?\\"  That, coupled with some other sideplots involving George's attempt to repopulate the race and a crazy guy making historical robots, make the book feel more scattershot than anything else at times.  Still, Morrow gets credit for striking a different tone than anyone else and definitely for trying something different, there's only so many slow-moving novels one can take of people getting ready to die or watching civilization crumble.  So while the novel isn't entirely successful, fans of Morrow may find it worthwhile (it's a quick read too, I finished it in maybe six or seven hours) and people looking for a novel of the endtimes that's a bit offbeat and fleetingly touching may find something to recommend here.	2005-08-16
US	52986477	R241BLSJL8AGY	0812555198	412077931	Earthquake Weather (Tor Fantasy)	Books	5	23	26	N	N	This is NOT for the beginner	I'll say this now, if you're sitting here shopping for new books and you've heard a little bit about this Tim Powers guy and you want to give him a shot because everyone says he's really good (and he is) and this is the book that you want to use as an introduction to him . . . you're doomed.  There's just no good way to put it.  For the newcomer, unless they're really good at reading between the lines, this book is going to come across as impenetrable.  Not that it isn't good, but new readers are going to feel like they've missed something.  Powers doesn't do many sequels to his books, most of his stuff is standalone, but this time he decided to merge some threads from other novels.  In the novel prior to this Expiration Date, he introduced some urban fantasy stuff about ghost swallowing and the general rules about haunts and so on, as well as introducing Koot Hoomie and his adopted parents, Pete Sullivan and Angelica.  Meanwhile in the now classic (and written some time ago) Last Call, Powers told the story of Scott Crane and how he became the Fisher King, the ruler of the West Coast (and so on and so forth).  So this novel is basically a sequel to both those novels as Powers rams the two plotlines together.  What happens is that Scott Crane is murdered by a woman apparently possessed by ghosts and Kootie is tapped to be the next king.  However he's too young and not really prepared for it and so one of the Crane's loyalists, Arky, comes up with a plan to restore him to life.  Confused yet?  What follows then is a narrative that seems both ponderous and breakneck as new characters start to mingle with old, with two new catalysts for the plot, Janis Plumtree (the murderer) and Sid Cochran, who just lost his wife and has some history with the god Dionysus.  Plumtree is supposed to be possessed but is mostly just someone with Multiple Personality Disorder, constantly switching from one to the other (in a way that reminded me of Crazy Jane from Grant Morrison's Doom Patrol run, except that Plumtree's don't have superpowers).  The two of them meet in a mental hospital, but escape due to a convenient earthquake and from there hook up with the rest of the cast.  It's hard to review this book without describing most of the setup of the plot because if I don't I feel like I'm losing context but at the same time there just seems to be no way around it.  Powers' streamlining of the two earlier books is neat and fairly seamless but all the fancy stuff just seems to come at the expense of his normally complex plotting and we're left with something turgid, with the characters lurching from one scene to another.  As long as you keep a handle on the main plot, you're all right but once sideplots start getting dragged in things start getting confusing since it's hard to say how relevant they are.  Plus, a lot of the plot seems to consist of \\"plot coupons\\" where the characters have to gather special objects that will help them for no other reason than the plot requires it.  Some of this confusion might be because I haven't read Last Call in years (or Expiration Date, though that was sooner), so that the stuff with the god Dionysus isn't too clear and I really wasn't clear what significance Armentrout had to the plot, except he was somebody to chase the other characters around (and that mannequin thing was weird), and I really don't know who half the other nameless people who were chasing the cast around were, either.  Basically this is a book where you just have to \\"go with it\\" and hope that it will all make sense by the end and Powers is enough of a professional to keep things moving adequately so that you don't spend too much time worrying about the stuff that just doesn't seem to work.  But while his other books felt tighly constructed and taut, this one has a more rambling feel to it and suffers a little bit for it.  Not that there aren't bright spots, the relationship between Cochran and Plumtree (and her several personalities) is cute, the constant barrage of nifty ideas about ghosts is always fun, and I like how Powers does urban fantasy effortlessly, so that you could believe all this magic stuff is going on right alongside the \\"real world\\".  The down side to all of this is that instead of getting a dazzling book (which is what we're used to) we get something that's merely \\"good\\".  And as an introduction to the world of Tim Powers, it's terrible, but as a nice continuation of the lives of characters we've already met, it does that well and for longtime readers it might be worth it just for that.he constant barrage of nifty ideas about ghosts is always fun, and I like how Powers does urban fantasy effortlessly, so that you could believe all this magic stuff is going on right alongside the \\"real world\\".  The down side to all of this is that instead of getting a dazzling book (which is what we're used to) we get something that's merely \\"good\\".  And as an introduction to the world of Tim Powers, it's terrible, but as a nice continuation of the lives of characters we've already met, it does that well and for longtime readers it might be worth it just for that.	2005-08-08
US	52986477	R115QGHIXEL06U	0380763958	216864232	Take Back Plenty	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Entertaining romp	I always run the risk of a backlash every time I say something like, \\"This was fun, but it won't change your life\\" because that's when I meet the person to whom this is the finest piece of literature of all time.  That said, I stand by my statement and chances are it won't be contested any time soon.  I do find it odd that I'm only the second comment, with the first one being from sometime in the last century.  I didn't think the book was that obscure, but what do I know.  I don't know what else Colin Greenland has written but this is the novel that is generally mentioned most often and it really is an entertaining slice of prototypical SF, definitely in the Heinlein mode with a lot of the contraversial edges sandpapered off.  The story concerns an adventure in the life of Tabitha Jute, the captain of a cargo ship, a lady in the mold of the SF hero, as she's full of what we used to call \\"pluck\\", a sassy, no-nonsense woman that is nearly fearless, never short of ideas on how to get out of a situation, someone that doesn't need a man to complete her life but isn't adverse to taking one to bed if he strikes her fancy.  However, she's also sensitive and slightly vulnerable and certainly not one of those boring square-jawed Buck Rogers types that populate so many other SF novels.  Your mileage may vary on how much of this you see as breaking cliches or simply creating new ones, but Greenland makes her three-dimensional enough so that she's by turns knowledeable and frightened, out of her element and in total control, depending on how things go.  And they do.  Taken in by a pretty face, she takes a job for what she thinks is travelling group of local performers, basically just agreeing to shuttle them from one place to another (she doesn't want to, but her ship desperately needs repairs).  It turns out that the group is a real bunch of weirdos, they may not be what they say they are, and even when they say what they are, that might not be true either.  The plot progresses at a maddening pace, only stopping to catch its breath during interludes where Tabitha talks to the ship and tells it stories about past adventures, which are actually pretty interesting and many of them are designed to set up plot twists that occur later in the book, plus showcase Tabitha's take-no-crap personality.  The plot does have an element of \\"this happened and then this happened and then this happened and then . . .\\" which is to say that it's rather linear, although Greenland does keep the surprises coming, mostly through revelations and shifts in plot because of those revelations.  Where the book really shines is the setting, Greenland sets up a universe where the solar system has been sealed off for apparently arbitrary reasons by a race of powerful beings called the Capellans, who seem to exist purely to annoy other intelligent races.  This is where the planet Plenty comes in (it's not as predominant as the title or the description on the back of the book would have you believe, although it does play an important role) and the interplay of the various factions in the setting serve as a nice backdrop and an impetus for much of what goes on.  There's a lot of interesting ideas, mostly with the alien races and some of Tabitha's stories seem to exist so that Greenland can show off some neat idea, which is perfectly all right because the ideas really are pretty darn neat.  In the end, it's a nice, readable package that goes down quickly and easily, functioning purely as entertainment and not a bad way at all to spend a few hours.  Science-fiction could use more books like this, well constructed novels brimming with some fascinating ideas and concepts that don't strive to achieve some sort of pseudo-literary status (and those people know who they are) and serve as a pleasant diversion for however long it takes you to read it.  Not every book needs to make our heads hurt.  And this is a fine example of how to do that right.at a maddening pace, only stopping to catch its breath during interludes where Tabitha talks to the ship and tells it stories about past adventures, which are actually pretty interesting and many of them are designed to set up plot twists that occur later in the book, plus showcase Tabitha's take-no-crap personality.  The plot does have an element of \\"this happened and then this happened and then this happened and then . . .\\" which is to say that it's rather linear, although Greenland does keep the surprises coming, mostly through revelations and shifts in plot because of those revelations.  Where the book really shines is the setting, Greenland sets up a universe where the solar system has been sealed off for apparently arbitrary reasons by a race of powerful beings called the Capellans, who seem to exist purely to annoy other intelligent races.  This is where the planet Plenty comes in (it's not as predominant as the title or the description on the back of the book would have you believe, although it does play an important role) and the interplay of the various factions in the setting serve as a nice backdrop and an impetus for much of what goes on.  There's a lot of interesting ideas, mostly with the alien races and some of Tabitha's stories seem to exist so that Greenland can show off some neat idea, which is perfectly all right because the ideas really are pretty darn neat.  In the end, it's a nice, readable package that goes down quickly and easily, functioning purely as entertainment and not a bad way at all to spend a few hours.  Science-fiction could use more books like this, well constructed novels brimming with some fascinating ideas and concepts that don't strive to achieve some sort of pseudo-literary status (and those people know who they are) and serve as a pleasant diversion for however long it takes you to read it.  Not every book needs to make our heads hurt.  And this is a fine example of how to do that right.	2005-07-12
US	52986477	R3A5O3I04E43BU	0449911942	742955457	Rabbit at Rest	Books	5	3	5	N	N	This is how it ends	Readers who have made their way through all four of Updike's Rabbit novels (and really that's the way to do it) have seen the Angstrom family go through a slew of changes, fumbling through their lives as the decades change, cheating on each other, trying to raise the kid, living apart, living together.  At the center of it all stands Harry Angstrom, Rabbit himself, unconsciously convinced that everything revolves around him, feeling bad for himself only when it's convenient to do so, loving his family ineptly only to tick them off in his spare time.  In the proceeding three books, there was a sense in Harry that he could rise above it all, that whatever happened in the US and to his family he could overcome and let slide off of him, he could be untouched by it all.  As the country nears the end of the eighties, leaving a hard fought decade, there's a subtle change to Harry's mood, a sense that he's lost control of everything and he doesn't know how it happened and he's not sure how to get it back.  Nearing sixty, his body is beginning to fail, heart trouble plaguing him and reminding him constantly of his own impending mortality.  The years when he was a hero, the star basketball player of his school, are long gone and all he has now is a wife (who is finding her own independence) and son (who has kids of his own and maybe a drug problem) and the used car lot (that he doesn't really own and he doesn't work at anymore to give his son free rein).  Updike's novel is a masterful look at a man who is starting to realize that he achieved his peak years ago and it's been all downhill since and he hasn't reached bottom yet.  Harry acts more like a witness here than a participant, sliding through it all unsure of himself.  Updike takes us into the decade as it crumbles apart, showing us the scandals and the drugs and the growing sense of the country that something was about to go terribly, terribly wrong.  After going along with the characters through four novels, they start to feel like distant relatives, cousins that you know too well but that you see only rarely, poking in to visit every ten years.  In these four books, Updike wound up creating four flawed but compelling characters.  All of them are selfish in their own ways, needy and patronizing and wrong, but possessed of some goodness, something that keeps them from being totally irredeemable.  But through it all, Harry tries to endure.  As he lives part of the year in Florida, seeing the old men with their medical problems that are soon going to be his if he doesn't shape up.  Back home, trying to deal with the fact that his wife doesn't need him anymore, that his son might just hate him and his daughter-in-law might want him.  In the end, he can't change, his stupid petty human arrogance won't let him change, won't allow him to let go of the glory he once had for a second, over thirty years ago, a thing that people remember but no one cares about.  In the end, his body does him in and Harry does himself in, by being himself, by acting the only one he knows how, stupid and selfish and innocent.  Reading the last pages, knowing that the end is probably going to mean the end of Harry, I found myself consciously slowing down, as if I was forcing the man to rush through the rest of his life somehow.  In the end, Harry stands as the best and worst of what an everyday man had to offer and Updike deserves all the awards he can for chronicling the upheveals of his country and the people who live in its shadow, just trying to get by.  The four novels stand as great pieces of American literature and Harry himself as one of the classic characters of the twentieth century.  And in the end, that's just enough.  It just is.to feel like distant relatives, cousins that you know too well but that you see only rarely, poking in to visit every ten years.  In these four books, Updike wound up creating four flawed but compelling characters.  All of them are selfish in their own ways, needy and patronizing and wrong, but possessed of some goodness, something that keeps them from being totally irredeemable.  But through it all, Harry tries to endure.  As he lives part of the year in Florida, seeing the old men with their medical problems that are soon going to be his if he doesn't shape up.  Back home, trying to deal with the fact that his wife doesn't need him anymore, that his son might just hate him and his daughter-in-law might want him.  In the end, he can't change, his stupid petty human arrogance won't let him change, won't allow him to let go of the glory he once had for a second, over thirty years ago, a thing that people remember but no one cares about.  In the end, his body does him in and Harry does himself in, by being himself, by acting the only one he knows how, stupid and selfish and innocent.  Reading the last pages, knowing that the end is probably going to mean the end of Harry, I found myself consciously slowing down, as if I was forcing the man to rush through the rest of his life somehow.  In the end, Harry stands as the best and worst of what an everyday man had to offer and Updike deserves all the awards he can for chronicling the upheveals of his country and the people who live in its shadow, just trying to get by.  The four novels stand as great pieces of American literature and Harry himself as one of the classic characters of the twentieth century.  And in the end, that's just enough.  It just is.	2005-07-03
US	52986477	R1FG8LYM02I1KB	0449449459	437546793	Rabbit Is Rich	Books	5	12	12	N	N	Everything hits at once	Having not been born until the decade was nearly over, the legendary hedonism of the seventies was something I could never experience, so this book is probably the closest I'll ever come.  The third book in Updike's Rabbit series, it continues to follow the life of Harry Angstrom, who seems to plow through life mostly be reacting, as opposed to taking a firm hand in events.  The books don't need to be read in order, but there are certain slim plot threads that are carried over and some scenes have extra resonance as they echo earlier events.  But isn't that the same with any life, some things just have more meaning if you know the story behind it.  In this third novel Harry is settling down, living at his mother-in-law's house with his wife (they're back together now, and Harry even works cordially with the man she cheated on him with) while he works at the used car lot.  Somehow he's achieved some state of stability, while not filthy rich, he's well off and he and his wife go out often with other well off couples from the area, playing tennis and hanging out by the pool.  Overall, life's pretty good.  Except it's not.  Harry keeps thinking that the yoing girl he's seen around town a few times might be his daughter by way of his lover Ruth almost twenty years ago.  And his son Nelson comes back to make trouble, escaping college, torn between two women and just complicating life in general.  The best thing about the Rabbit novels is that they don't have a \\"plot\\" per se as much as direction, they function as a snapshot of a certain period of time and Updike manages to orchestrate events so that they have a natural rising action and climax that good fiction demands, while at the same time making it feel perfectly natural, following the rhythms of life.  With his keen eye he depicts people caught in the decadence of the seventies even as everything was about to slide apart around them, it's the story of people shaped not only by the times, but by each other and the times that went before them.  Harry remains a strangely endearing character, selfish and self-absorbed, directionless but looking for a way out, possessed of a weird code of decency that expresses itself in some odd ways.  His discussions with his son are some of the best parts of the book, as Harry tries to help the kid out, their conversations quickly devolve into accusations and lead nowhere.  Harry doesn't want to listen to his son and Nelson wants to hear nothing of what his dad has to say.  Harry seems painfully self-aware of what's going on around him but powerless to do anything about it, striking out at various things to make him feel like he's doing something productive when in the end he's just spinning his wheels.  Nelson has grown up finally and grown nowhere at all as well, in contrast to his father, who has achieved some domestic calm, Nelson acts like a man constantly trapped, boxed in every time he turns around, not sure if this option is the best one but sure it was better than the one before and maybe if he waits long enough and dallies, something better will present itself.  All of these characters act and interact and intersect under the guise of Updike's finely tuned prose, his gift for description propelling even the slowest scene with a steady progression, providing a calm voice to every character's thoughts, imbuing even the most hollow person with a bit of life.  The book has the messy cadence of life, with irrelevant conversations and asides, tangents that don't go anywhere and yet it's all guided by the steady hand of his words, carrying it to the only conclusions, checking us out so he can pause for a second and get ready to check in again ten years later to see how Harry is doing.  In Harry Angstrom Updike has created as close to a real person (a real American, since he's so shaped by time and place) in all his imperfections and screwed up traits than most of us will ever see.  People who say that it's \\"about nothing\\" miss the point.  People who say \\"you can cut a lot of it out\\" miss the point.  It's a prose photograph, showcasing all the messy details in all their glory, the same way you can't erase the house in the background because it clashes with the color of your shirt.  You have to just take it all in, and make what you can of it.e who say \\"you can cut a lot of it out\\" miss the point.  It's a prose photograph, showcasing all the messy details in all their glory, the same way you can't erase the house in the background because it clashes with the color of your shirt.  You have to just take it all in, and make what you can of it.	2005-06-11
US	52986477	R225ITTA0KB3I4	0449911934	437546793	Rabbit Redux	Books	5	1	5	N	N	Fumbling through the sixties	I have to say, the first novel in the series (Rabbit, Run) was so concise and pointed, saying what it had to say in beautiful fashion before getting out while the getting was good, that I figured it would be the series' peak, with future volumes merely going over the themes of the first in a more expanded fashion.  Certainly looking at how much larger Rabbit Redux is compared to the first book, I figured there would be loads of excess in addition to the main story.  Alas, I was wrong.  It happens.  Updike continues both the life of Harry Angstrom as well as his depiction of a specific place and time in American history.  In this case the time in question is the end of the sixties, a period immersed in radical change and the novel seems to be about both Harry's reaction to the sixties and the sixties' reaction to him.  Updike uses the extra space to good effect, taking apart Harry's world while giving him something to put in place of it before taking it all apart again.  In the beginning, Harry's wife Janice leaves him for another lover, an event that everyone seems to find scandalous but Harry.  But he muddles through and in time takes on a houseguest/lover/surrogate daughter, an eighteen year old runaway named Jill, as well as her friend Skeeter, a young black man on the run.  Any objections to the novel seem to center on this portion, which takes up most of the center of the book, where Jill and (mostly) Skeeter basically harangue Rabbit with their views of the politics of the day, especially on slavery and the treatment of African-Americans.  I like the way Updike writes dialogue and Skeeter's monologues (or rants) have an infecious rhythm to them and the counterpoint of Harry's often low-key responses makes for some interesting reading.  However, it could be interpreted as the author slamming the reader over the head with his politics, although I don't really see it that way.  The four of them (with Rabbit's teenage son) make for a weird family unit, but of course things don't stay that way.  Updike writes a novel more episodic than anything else, mimicking the flow of life without seeming entirely aimless, furthering the themes of the first book while weaving in the problematic times of the sixties, deepening characters like Rabbit's parents and sister.  Rabbit himself remains the central enigma, inhabiting the center of the novel without really revealing himself, ninety percent of the book is from his point of view but it's hard to get a feel for him.  It's too easy to say that he's an anti-hero, although he rarely causes events to happen (unless it's through inaction), he defends the Vietnam war because he feels someone has to, he treats people he knows like crap but operates by a code of honor that almost gives him a quiet dignity in the right lighting.  He treats people decent sometimes, but hardly seems to care about anything at all.  In him, Updike found the perfect Everyman, able to comment on the changing times not by sitting there and ranting to us about them, but simply by having things happen to him, by having life just parade by while he stands there staring, confused by what's going on.  As always, the prose and dialogue remain razor-sharp, Updike's descriptions of suburban surroundings attaining an odd beauty in their mundanity, and his dialogue filled with offhand gems that come naturally from the character, not like scripts placed in their hands.  Far from detracting from the first novel, this one gives it more resonance and while it could probably be read on its own, for best effect they should be read in sequence.  And I see reviews saying that the later books are even better, so we'll have to see when we get there.se things don't stay that way.  Updike writes a novel more episodic than anything else, mimicking the flow of life without seeming entirely aimless, furthering the themes of the first book while weaving in the problematic times of the sixties, deepening characters like Rabbit's parents and sister.  Rabbit himself remains the central enigma, inhabiting the center of the novel without really revealing himself, ninety percent of the book is from his point of view but it's hard to get a feel for him.  It's too easy to say that he's an anti-hero, although he rarely causes events to happen (unless it's through inaction), he defends the Vietnam war because he feels someone has to, he treats people he knows like crap but operates by a code of honor that almost gives him a quiet dignity in the right lighting.  He treats people decent sometimes, but hardly seems to care about anything at all.  In him, Updike found the perfect Everyman, able to comment on the changing times not by sitting there and ranting to us about them, but simply by having things happen to him, by having life just parade by while he stands there staring, confused by what's going on.  As always, the prose and dialogue remain razor-sharp, Updike's descriptions of suburban surroundings attaining an odd beauty in their mundanity, and his dialogue filled with offhand gems that come naturally from the character, not like scripts placed in their hands.  Far from detracting from the first novel, this one gives it more resonance and while it could probably be read on its own, for best effect they should be read in sequence.  And I see reviews saying that the later books are even better, so we'll have to see when we get there.	2005-05-15
US	52986477	R1Z92B8MM9J6IC	0449911659	437546793	Rabbit, Run	Books	5	49	57	N	N	The first - a burst of intensity	I always find it interesting that in a lot of extended series of novels, the first book tends to be compact and to the point, while later novels tend to be more sprawling and expanded. Glancing over my line of Updike's Rabbit novels, of which this is the first, that seems to be the case, but time will tell whether those later books successfully trade the taut intensity of this novel for a more spacious feel.  The Rabbit novels take up four books, all tracing the life of Harry \\"Rabbit\\" Angstrom, a man growing up in the latter part of the twentieth century, with each book taking place in a different decade, highlighting not only the changes in Harry but the changes in the country itself as it winds through the crazy years of the 1900's.  This book takes place in the early fifties or late sixties and introduces us to the man himself, Rabbit, who does his best to fulfill the verb embedded in the title and run as far as he can.  Harry feels trapped in his marriage, with a three year old already present and his wife heavily pregnant and drinking all the time, he takes a look at his dreary life and wigs out, trying to drive as far away as he can before coming back and attempting to find himself, with increasingly flailing results.  His quests lead him to encounter a priest, a prostitute, an old coach and his parents and in-laws, all of whom have advice and none of which seem to have the right advice.  So Harry tries to forge his own way but that might not be right either.  The book doesn't have so much of a plot as it consists of shifting stream of consciousness impressions, all told with Updike's carefully controlled prose, lunging from beautiful descriptions of the outside world and the people in it to searingly brutal internal monologues that are only matched by the terrible things people say to each other.  There's hardly a likeable character in the entire novel and that's where the real truimph comes in because even when you have all these imperfect people you keep reading anyway, watching them trying to find meaning in their grey lives, with nobody really sure what to do.  And in the center of it all runs Rabbit, serving to cause everything even as he's only reacting against what's happening to him.  People throw the word \\"anti-hero\\" around when describing him and it's not too far off, he's selfish and hypocritical and impulsive and utterly self centered but yet there's a fascinating sincerity about him, a tragic sense that he's certain he's doing the right thing even as he brings it crumbling down even further.  None of the characters are angelic, all hide their own motives and quirks and it only makes them more sympathetic because they're dealt flawed cards to begin with and sometimes in trying to make the best of it they only muck things up further.  The latter half of the book is remarkably intense considering it's about suburban life and the pivotal moment goes by like a slow motion car wreck, a horror far worse than anything Stephen King ever crafted unfolding before you.  You know what's going to happen about halfway through and you keep reading in the hopes that your intuition isn't true.  Updike's words masterfully give voice to the numbness inside all of them and even if he's wordier than he should be at moments it doesn't matter because the sheer tide of his telling carries us through.  The book depicts people who are alternatively saints and monsters and really none and so fall somewhere in between, just like any of us.  Rabbit runs, but it gets him nowhere and with a character this rich, readers have to know that we'll eventually see what happens beyond the ending.  And yes there are three more books.  But even if you can only read one, this is enough.  That there's three more waiting is just an afterthought, a way to see what happens in the movie after the credits stop rolling and everyone else has gone home.  Regardless of anything else, here's where it starts.ading anyway, watching them trying to find meaning in their grey lives, with nobody really sure what to do.  And in the center of it all runs Rabbit, serving to cause everything even as he's only reacting against what's happening to him.  People throw the word \\"anti-hero\\" around when describing him and it's not too far off, he's selfish and hypocritical and impulsive and utterly self centered but yet there's a fascinating sincerity about him, a tragic sense that he's certain he's doing the right thing even as he brings it crumbling down even further.  None of the characters are angelic, all hide their own motives and quirks and it only makes them more sympathetic because they're dealt flawed cards to begin with and sometimes in trying to make the best of it they only muck things up further.  The latter half of the book is remarkably intense considering it's about suburban life and the pivotal moment goes by like a slow motion car wreck, a horror far worse than anything Stephen King ever crafted unfolding before you.  You know what's going to happen about halfway through and you keep reading in the hopes that your intuition isn't true.  Updike's words masterfully give voice to the numbness inside all of them and even if he's wordier than he should be at moments it doesn't matter because the sheer tide of his telling carries us through.  The book depicts people who are alternatively saints and monsters and really none and so fall somewhere in between, just like any of us.  Rabbit runs, but it gets him nowhere and with a character this rich, readers have to know that we'll eventually see what happens beyond the ending.  And yes there are three more books.  But even if you can only read one, this is enough.  That there's three more waiting is just an afterthought, a way to see what happens in the movie after the credits stop rolling and everyone else has gone home.  Regardless of anything else, here's where it starts.	2005-04-12
US	52986477	R1ROA82OVEATFH	0618002243	669379389	The Return of the King (Lord of the Rings )	Books	5	2	3	N	N	A fitting ending	I think Tolkien envisioned the trilogy not as three separate books but one gigantic novel (along the lines maybe of Proust's In Search of Lost Time, except you know, with Balrogs and stuff) which might be why people who treat the series as three separate novels tend to get bored early on, while the rest of us are urging them to keep going.  Because the series as a whole does follow the classical arc of a novel, with the first book consisting of the exposition and setup, the second book the rising action and this last portion being the climax (or climaxes, as it turns out) so that when read straight through the structure makes a whole lot more sense.  Tolkien does epic like no one else had done before, thrusting the heroes into impossible situations and making the whole affair so epic that it hurts.  Immortal people and run of the mill working class folk mingle and fight and die together, while the fate of everything hangs in the balance.  My favorite type of epic fantasy is the kind where the heroes are essentially running for their lives throughout the whole story and there's a palpable sense of \\"Geez if we screw this up everyone dies\\" permeating every page . . . Tolkien pulls this off masterfully, all the while retaining a sense of wonder and an eye for humor at the small things that leads you to believe that these are just regular people involved in extraordinary events.  Thus, the third novel wraps up the final plots, with Aragorn and company fighting off Sauron's hordes, all the while having no idea where Frodo and Sam are, or if they're even still alive, waiting for a sign that the Ring is either destroyed or that Sauron has it and they should start looking for other lines of work very quickly.  Meanwhile, Frodo and Sam continue the longest walk ever in epic fantasy (really, when you look at the map and the scale, that was a haul they made, on foot!), with an untrustworthy guide and the evilest inanimate object ever created.  The grandeur and despair practically leap off the page, with the heroes literally dragging their way to the end of the quests and when the truimph eventually comes, it's more than earned.  But even after the celebrations are finished and it's time to go home, there's still one more task left to complete, with a key scene left out of the movie but utterly familar to those who have read the book, and a chilling fate for the last remaining villain in the series.  If Tolkien did one thing, he brought a sense of humanity to epic fantasy and successfully captured the feeling of little ordinary people caught up in great things.  None of this would have worked half as well if he hadn't constructed a ridiculously detailed history of everything and it's the weight of that prior history that informs the novel, even though only like a tenth of it is actually referenced in the story, it hovers there and acts as a living force on the narrative itself, so that the reader really gets the impression than an Age of the world is passing into history.  The ending gets me every time and I can't imagine how it could be anymore perfect, bringing home the point that after all the epic stuff is done, the monsters are vanquished and the kings are brought high, everyday life goes on, beautiful in its simplicity.  After the main story is over, there's a slew of appendices, for those not convinced how much crazy detail Tolkien went into to give himself a firm foundation to base the story on.  The first few are the most interesting, one for giving us a fairly good history of the Ages and the events that led up to the War of the Ring, as well as what was going on while the narrative focused on the characters.  Even better there's a chronology of what happened after Aragorn became king and the events of his reign, detailing the fates of everyone in the Fellowship.  It has the feel of real history and it's just as fascinating in its own way as this world.  Not perfect, this series is the closest we've gotten to a perfect epic fantasy in terms of emotional scope and historical feel, mixing the high and the mundane and it goes to show that the majority of epic fantasy has only been a pale shadow of what Tolkien did here, so great was his influence (granted there's bit a lot of entertaining shadows, but nothing I've read has surpassed it yet).  So you can like or dislike this all you want, but if you're at all interested in fantasy you can't risk ignoring it.  Probably going down as one of the greatest novels of the last century (if there's any justice) this was well worth the time to reread and I'm certainly glad I did.  The memories of a ten year old just don't do it justice.  People who have only seen the movie, by all means, don't stop there.  The real heart of the story is here.sy in terms of emotional scope and historical feel, mixing the high and the mundane and it goes to show that the majority of epic fantasy has only been a pale shadow of what Tolkien did here, so great was his influence (granted there's bit a lot of entertaining shadows, but nothing I've read has surpassed it yet).  So you can like or dislike this all you want, but if you're at all interested in fantasy you can't risk ignoring it.  Probably going down as one of the greatest novels of the last century (if there's any justice) this was well worth the time to reread and I'm certainly glad I did.  The memories of a ten year old just don't do it justice.  People who have only seen the movie, by all means, don't stop there.  The real heart of the story is here.	2005-03-25
US	52986477	R20BDO9AV85YQ9	0618002235	669379389	The Two Towers (The Lord of the Rings, Part 2)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Well, that went fast	People who complain about the slow pacing of the books probably haven't made it past Fellowship of the Ring.  That book, for all its merits (and it has many) could have been called \\"LOTR: The Onset of Exposition\\" at times, so heavy does the weight of backstory fall on the reader.  However, I like the backstory and find that it makes Middle-Earth richer and more realistic, knowing that for every offhand reference to some hill that the characters walk past, Tolkien came up with an entire history for that very hill and we're only hearing a tiny bit of it.  I have no choice but to admire that.  The other hurdle for readers of the first book was that the plot was resolutely linear in nature, since all the companions were together you basically have Point A to Point B stuff, first they walk \\"here\\" and then they go \\"here\\" and things happen and so on.  Two Towers fixes those problems with style.  With the Fellowship split, Tolkien divides the plot into Frodo/Sam and everyone else.  Having already dealt with setting up the premise (ring=bad) he can go to town on the plot itself and it's amazing how breakneck things are, considering this is coming from a mild mannered Oxford professor.  Aragorn and company range across Rohan trying to find the hobbits, trying not to get killed, running into friends and enemies while meanwhile the rest of Middle-Earth is waking up to the fact that Sauron really does want to kill everyone . . . at the same time Frodo and Sam start to realize that they might be on a bit of a suicide mission.  Fantastic locations abound and Tolkien's imagination seems endless as he whips out magical setting after magical setting, switching from wondrous to horrifying to just plain beautiful in chapter after chapter.  As big and epic as the events of the novels are, he never loses sight of the humanity of his characters and often contrasts the workings of the important immortal characters (Gandalf, the elves, etc) with the regular people who populate Middle-Earth and getting their perspective on things.  And he never forgets to include moments of small humor and delight, Merry and Pippen finding a stash of food, Frodo and Sam discussing how people will remember their tale for years after it's over, so that the characters seem like real people who are simply caught up in things beyond their reckoning and just trying to figure out how to make it through alive.  Again, it's not perfect but it's as close to the distilled essence of epic fantasy as we're likely to get.  One thing I did notice that I didn't remember from my first time reading it is that the novels are almost like musicials, Tolkien must have been a frustrated songwriter because it seems like every few pages (this is more pronounced in the first novel) people stop to sing a song about something, anything.  Not saying it's good or bad, just commnenting.  And for those coming in from the movies, this book seems most affected by the transition from text to film, with whole sections chopped out to get crammed into the next movie and a lot of stuff simply just changed.  So don't think because you've seen the films you've seen it all, the novels are still the first source and still highly preferred for those so inclined.  So for all those folks who said \\"all they do is walk around!\\" this is where they start to get proven wrong.and getting their perspective on things.  And he never forgets to include moments of small humor and delight, Merry and Pippen finding a stash of food, Frodo and Sam discussing how people will remember their tale for years after it's over, so that the characters seem like real people who are simply caught up in things beyond their reckoning and just trying to figure out how to make it through alive.  Again, it's not perfect but it's as close to the distilled essence of epic fantasy as we're likely to get.  One thing I did notice that I didn't remember from my first time reading it is that the novels are almost like musicials, Tolkien must have been a frustrated songwriter because it seems like every few pages (this is more pronounced in the first novel) people stop to sing a song about something, anything.  Not saying it's good or bad, just commnenting.  And for those coming in from the movies, this book seems most affected by the transition from text to film, with whole sections chopped out to get crammed into the next movie and a lot of stuff simply just changed.  So don't think because you've seen the films you've seen it all, the novels are still the first source and still highly preferred for those so inclined.  So for all those folks who said \\"all they do is walk around!\\" this is where they start to get proven wrong.	2005-03-16
US	52986477	R2SNSTRDUH5JW9	0618002227	669379389	The Fellowship of the Ring (The Lord of the Rings, Part 1)	Books	5	3	4	N	N	The epic stroll begins	I generally don't reread books.  I have so many waiting in the queue (two years backlog at last count, when friends recommend a book to me I ask them to check back in 2007 to see what I thought of it) that I don't really have time to go back and read stuff that I finished years ago, no matter how much I enjoyed it.  And yet here I am, going through the famed trilogy again.  I first read LOTR when I was about ten years old and while many of the finer details were absent from my memory, I managed enough of a general gist of the books to avoid going back to them, even resisting the urge when the movies came out to dive into a reread frenzy, even as the rest of my friends were tearing through them (plus I had a certain satisfaction, having gotten to them years before, first on the block syndrome and all that).  And I did successfully resist through the three years of movie releases.  But when I saw the extended version of the final movie, I was struck by a few scenes that I didn't remember that clearly, as well as reading some articles on the differences between the books and the movies, what was left in, left out, changed, etc.  With all that in mind, I figured it was worth a shot to go through the books again, with an adult mind (in theory), since I don't know if I appreciated them enough as a kid.  Of course, there was also a risk I would find them tedious and dull and just ruin all the magic but it was one I was willing to take.  And it turned out to be a good idea.  I firmly believe the reason Middle-Earth has remained stuck in everyone's consciousness over the years was because Tolkien treated it like a real place, made it a living, breathing world, down to the nuts and bolts of its history and as such it almost became a place you wanted to live.  I've never encountered a made up place that feels as solid as Tolkien's creation does.  That said, Fellowship of the Ring is interesting but also acts as setup, putting everything in place for the events that would happen in later volumes.  The pace is far slower than I remembered, when I reached page two hundred and they hadn't left the Shire I knew I was in for a long haul.  But you know what?  I barely noticed.  All the templates of modern epic fantasy are here and done right, by contrasting the average lives of the \\"little people\\" with the actions of the big important immortal people and mixing them all together, he really creates a world shaking feel, that big events are just around the corner and going to change everything.  His writing has a casual ease to it, sure everyone speaks in stilted fantasy dialogue but it reads easy and the going went much faster than I would have thought.  His gift for description is amazing, he relates enough to develop a sense of wonder but doesn't bog down the proceedings by describing every leaf and blade of grass.  Those looking for action will probably be sorely disappointed, as will those looking for women characters (saving the world was man's work apparently, but it was a different time, kids) and yes, if you boil it down to the basics, you can summarize it, in the words of my brother so many years ago, as \\"all they do is walk around!\\"  True, in a sense, but it's how they do it that matters and if you let yourself be immersed in the epic sweep of affairs, you'll be walking right along with them.  The movie is what it is, and was a great experience, but they had to cut corners, literally transferring this novel to screen, as much as it alarmed purists would have made a dull movie.  So think of the movie as the Cliffs Notes version of the book, I heartily recommend both, but if you want the full effect, the text is the way to go.  This will be one reread I won't regret.n in later volumes.  The pace is far slower than I remembered, when I reached page two hundred and they hadn't left the Shire I knew I was in for a long haul.  But you know what?  I barely noticed.  All the templates of modern epic fantasy are here and done right, by contrasting the average lives of the \\"little people\\" with the actions of the big important immortal people and mixing them all together, he really creates a world shaking feel, that big events are just around the corner and going to change everything.  His writing has a casual ease to it, sure everyone speaks in stilted fantasy dialogue but it reads easy and the going went much faster than I would have thought.  His gift for description is amazing, he relates enough to develop a sense of wonder but doesn't bog down the proceedings by describing every leaf and blade of grass.  Those looking for action will probably be sorely disappointed, as will those looking for women characters (saving the world was man's work apparently, but it was a different time, kids) and yes, if you boil it down to the basics, you can summarize it, in the words of my brother so many years ago, as \\"all they do is walk around!\\"  True, in a sense, but it's how they do it that matters and if you let yourself be immersed in the epic sweep of affairs, you'll be walking right along with them.  The movie is what it is, and was a great experience, but they had to cut corners, literally transferring this novel to screen, as much as it alarmed purists would have made a dull movie.  So think of the movie as the Cliffs Notes version of the book, I heartily recommend both, but if you want the full effect, the text is the way to go.  This will be one reread I won't regret.	2005-03-13
US	52986477	R1J6NA4OYHHZK7	0879516283	881238347	The Gormenghast Novels (Titus Groan / Gormenghast / Titus Alone)	Books	5	12	16	N	N	Fortunately, I don't listen to my friends	Whoa, now that was a plunge.  Almost two months to get through all of that and it was well worth any second.  People who are looking for other fine examples of epic fantasy are steered toward these books by well meaning people, without realizing what they are getting into.  Instead of the sprawling expanse of that other place, populated with all manner of creatures that you could relate to, instead what you get is a cold, compressed place inhabited by weird people who don't seem normal at all, no matter how human they seem.  Several years ago I was at a friend's house and I saw he had this book sitting on his table partially read.  The book was buried in my pile and I wouldn't get to it for some time so I never asked him about it.  Recently, just before I started reading this book, we were discussing how I can't stand Neal Stephenson's Snow Crash and he thinks it's a brilliant work of literature and he asked what I was reading next.  So I told him and his response was \\"Don't bother, they're boring, after a hundred pages I had to stop because nothing was happening.\\"  I didn't listen, of course, because I never do and as we saw he was wrong once.  The main reason to read this novels is not for the plot, not for slambang action, not for quick pacing.  Gormenghhast is about a castle and a large, brooding, doom laden castle and thus the plot suits the setting.  And Peake brings the place to life like nothing else in fantastic literature, painting the castle with words that depict every last shadow, every quirk, every rusted bit of decaying ritual that makes up the crumbling place.  The pace is glacial but the book sustains itself on pure atmosphere, as the characters go through their motions in the wake of this cold monstrous thing they inhabit.  Peake was able to finish three novels in the series before he died (it's called a trilogy because it's all we have but really he meant for more books to come), with the first two really focusing on the castle.  The first introduces everyone, including Titus himself, who remains a baby for most of the first book, as well as his parents and sister and the rest of the staff and folk that make up the castle.  It's been said that all the characters are unlikeable and that's not exactly true.  Titus' mother is cold but possesses a weird allure, his father a detached nobility even in light of his chronic melancholy and the doctor is loads of fun, the only real light in the dark place.  And then there's Steerpike, one of the greatest villains of fantastic literature.  Starting out as a kitchen boy, over the course of the first book he enacts a plan that he hopes will take him to the top and he remains simultaneously sympathetic and vile, manipulating everyone, trying to kill them all without them realizing it.  He enlivens any scene he's in and Peake has a ball with his machinations.  The stage is all set up in the first book and so by the time the second book (titled Gormenghast) rolls around, the plot is in full swing and Peake reaches his dizzying, descriptive peak, as the atmosphere grows even darker, the plot grows sharper, the tension more palpable (the scenes where the doctor and the Countness start to figure out what's going on are brilliant) and it all tumbles into a grand, epic climax, as Titus claims what is rightfully his (even as he has a surprise in store).  Those two books alone make for one of the finest, most compressed saga in all of fantastic literature, dripping with style, but not the flashy, empty kind that authors try to foist on the readers these days, there's a weight here that keeps you reading, a magnetic quality to the fungus ridden hallways, the crumbling towers and grand rooms.  You could stop at the first two and walk away utterly satisified.  But there is a third book, Titus Alone and this is where opinions start to differ.  Titus leaves the confines of the castle and without its marvelous atmosphere to sustain everything, the novel loses some of its character, themood evaporates when taken into the world itself, especially since Titus finds himself in some weird SFesque landscape (it doesn't help that Peake was ill with Parkinson's and that this probably doesn't reflect his final draft, if he had lived long enough to write it).  There are pleasures to be found but it's nothing like the heady highs of the initial novels and he probably would have never achieved those lofty heights again, even as later books probably would have been of high quality (again, shackled by illness, we can never be truly sure of what he would have done).  The omnibus has a fragment of the fourth book and notes that his widow continued work on it but died before she finished it and so all of Titus' future adventures are lost to time forever, which is a little depressing when you think about it.  The omnibus is the best way to get acquainted with the work, not only do you get the three novels but a bunch of a critical essays and some introductions, as well as drawings and other material (though it would have been nice to include the novella \\"Boy in Darkness\\" which has a nameless Titus before he leaves the castle and is of high quality . . . maybe it'll appear in a later edition).  If you have any interest in fantasy you owe it to yourself to at least give these novels a look and get a glimpse into a world that this man was able to take whole from his head and transfer onto the printed page, with an eye only an artist could have.  And remember to always treasure the opinions of your friends, but don't always take them at face value either.  You never know what you could be missing.mood evaporates when taken into the world itself, especially since Titus finds himself in some weird SFesque landscape (it doesn't help that Peake was ill with Parkinson's and that this probably doesn't reflect his final draft, if he had lived long enough to write it).  There are pleasures to be found but it's nothing like the heady highs of the initial novels and he probably would have never achieved those lofty heights again, even as later books probably would have been of high quality (again, shackled by illness, we can never be truly sure of what he would have done).  The omnibus has a fragment of the fourth book and notes that his widow continued work on it but died before she finished it and so all of Titus' future adventures are lost to time forever, which is a little depressing when you think about it.  The omnibus is the best way to get acquainted with the work, not only do you get the three novels but a bunch of a critical essays and some introductions, as well as drawings and other material (though it would have been nice to include the novella \\"Boy in Darkness\\" which has a nameless Titus before he leaves the castle and is of high quality . . . maybe it'll appear in a later edition).  If you have any interest in fantasy you owe it to yourself to at least give these novels a look and get a glimpse into a world that this man was able to take whole from his head and transfer onto the printed page, with an eye only an artist could have.  And remember to always treasure the opinions of your friends, but don't always take them at face value either.  You never know what you could be missing.	2005-02-26
US	52986477	RZHL90PRJT37T	0060973099	144087991	Mother London: A Novel	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Brings the city to life	As much as I love the concept of Moorcock's Multiverse novels, I have to admit that it takes a lot of searching to find the gems amidst all the rest, since many of them were written when he was a lot younger (and often very quickly) and have a bit of a slapdash quality to them, so that the concept is clearly there but it's also all over the place.  His best books are the ones where the vision is clear from the onset and he manages to sustain across the entire work, like the Jerry Cornelius novels.  And this one.  This is probably his most famous work to non-SF readers, I don't know if I'd go so far as to say it's \\"mainstream\\" because even though there aren't people with giant black swords cutting everyone to pieces and invoking ancient gods, it's still very clearly a Moorcock book.  This is probably the best novel to recommend to people who want to get into him but are scared off by his other novels because it's self contained and more or less \\"normal\\".  Basically it's his love letter to the city of London, through the eyes of three characters, Mary Gasalee, David Mummery, and Josef Kiss, all of whom were involved in avoiding getting bombs dropped on them during the Blitz and who we follow as the story reels back and forth in time, as the characters wander all over the neighborhoods of London, running into the people there and commenting on the changing times.  Moorcock evokes the spirit of London through the characters, both literally and figuritively (Mummery is compiling notes about the city, Gasalee and Kiss are both mildly psychic I think), in the same way that Ulysses gives you a tour of Dublin and Lanark represents Glasgow (on that note, has there even been a definitive novel of NYC . . . Dos Passos' Manhattan Transfer?) in a way that lets an outsider like myself get a feel for the city and it's movements but at the same time I think you'd have to truly be a Londoner to understand it all . . . by making the foundation of the novel rooted in the Blitz and having everything either proceed from or regress to there he centers it on what is probably the most defining event for most of London, and contrasts both the great uncertainty and fear of those days with London's nonchalance and ability to survive . . . the shockwaves of it continue to resonate throughout the book, like echoes that haven't reached their targets yet.  And due to the characters being psychic, interspersed throughout the narrative are the jumbled thoughts of the people of London, giving voice to the millions that live there, adding a different texture to the proceedings.  Moorcock throws everything he can into the novel, giving us a city and a people that are comic and tragic, mundane and grand, all at the same time, creating a story that could only happen in one place, hinting that the only way to really survive is to create your own myths, and run with them.  What you get there isn't so much a tightly plotted story but a series of images cascading one after the other, putting together a picture of a place that you'd never understand completely unless you lived there, but since most of us don't, this is the closest we'll ever come.  I don't know if it was ever published in the US, but it's certainly out of print here now, though I'm sure used bookstores and UK-related websites have it, since it's definitely still available there I'd recommend snagging it.  It shouldn't be the only Moorcock book you ever read, but if you have to start somewhere or if you really only want to read one, this would be it.ng everything either proceed from or regress to there he centers it on what is probably the most defining event for most of London, and contrasts both the great uncertainty and fear of those days with London's nonchalance and ability to survive . . . the shockwaves of it continue to resonate throughout the book, like echoes that haven't reached their targets yet.  And due to the characters being psychic, interspersed throughout the narrative are the jumbled thoughts of the people of London, giving voice to the millions that live there, adding a different texture to the proceedings.  Moorcock throws everything he can into the novel, giving us a city and a people that are comic and tragic, mundane and grand, all at the same time, creating a story that could only happen in one place, hinting that the only way to really survive is to create your own myths, and run with them.  What you get there isn't so much a tightly plotted story but a series of images cascading one after the other, putting together a picture of a place that you'd never understand completely unless you lived there, but since most of us don't, this is the closest we'll ever come.  I don't know if it was ever published in the US, but it's certainly out of print here now, though I'm sure used bookstores and UK-related websites have it, since it's definitely still available there I'd recommend snagging it.  It shouldn't be the only Moorcock book you ever read, but if you have to start somewhere or if you really only want to read one, this would be it.	2005-01-03
US	52986477	R1JSPME8ANWL1B	0345430816	715871325	The Drawing of the Dark (Del Rey Impact)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Now that's good . . . beer	Even early on Tim Powers made sure he stood out from the pack.  As an author writing in the fantasy genre, he clearly had ambitions beyond having characters go running after the same old magical items and experience winding neverending quests through lands with hard to pronounce names.  His type of fantasy retains all of the fantastic elements but shifts the setting to more urban places, adds a bit of cleverness and manages to remain as entertaining as anything else out there.  In this novel, he centers the novel around beer and manages to come up with one of the more original premises for a fantasy novel ever.  Now, this isn't beer in the sense of drunken frat boy parties, this is beer in terms of the old European tradition of crafting fine beer.  In fact, the story itself takes place in the sixteenth century, in the days prior to an invasion by the Eastern lands (mostly Turkey), as the enemy comes apparently to take over the lands but maybe for another reason entirely.  In this mess walks Brian Duffy, aging soldier for hire (an underused fantasy character if there was one), who takes an assignment from an elderly but mysterious man to look after his brewery . . . except he finds that it's not simply an inn and he's simply not Brian Duffy, man for hire, anymore.  Powers gets lots of credit for not only recreating the time period here and writing it authentically (as far as I can tell) but for making it fun to read as well.  Bonus points also go to his mingling of Arthurian mythology with European legends and some Eastern myths as well (oh yeah and Norse myths, to boot, his local library must have loved him) . . . along with some other stuff that he probably made up and managed to slip in seamlessly.  Even at this early date his plotting is second to none, with loads of threads weaving effortlessly throughout the novel, innocous elements coming into play later in the oddest ways.  His explanation for why everyone should care about beer makes perfect sense in the context of the story and it's a testament to his ability that he can write a thrilling story about protecting a keg.  Brian Duffy remains a fun character, weary of the world, sarcastic, not completely believing what's going on around him and in the end accepting what he is and doing what he has to do.  The mixture of fantasy, reality, suspense and humor makes for a heady brew (I couldn't resist) and although it's not Powers' masterpiece it's a fun bit of writing that gives a nice break from the endless trilogy quests that so often populate the fantasy genre.  Just about anything by Powers is worth a read and this is no exception.text of the story and it's a testament to his ability that he can write a thrilling story about protecting a keg.  Brian Duffy remains a fun character, weary of the world, sarcastic, not completely believing what's going on around him and in the end accepting what he is and doing what he has to do.  The mixture of fantasy, reality, suspense and humor makes for a heady brew (I couldn't resist) and although it's not Powers' masterpiece it's a fun bit of writing that gives a nice break from the endless trilogy quests that so often populate the fantasy genre.  Just about anything by Powers is worth a read and this is no exception.	2004-12-12
US	52986477	R380KGVESJJFPR	0886778697	881068875	The Faded Sun Trilogy: Kesrith, Shon'jir, and Kutath	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Sprawling but worth the time	Originally three novels now available in a gigantically thick paperback, the books known as the Faded Sun trilogy probably aren't generally spoken of when you list Cherryh's classics, but they do belong in the \\"very good\\" catagory of her work.  Jamming all three novels together was a good idea, since the books contain the same themes and basically tell one sustained story, even if each individual novel has its own goals and climaxes.  Cherryh is at her best when dealing with her massive Alliance-Union setting and the history that it entails, especially when she sets the story in the aftermath of a long and tangled history.  Basically the human race is finishing up a long war with the regul race, big aliens who are normally traders, who have perfect memories, don't lie (but don't always tell the truth) and really don't move either.  To fight the war they used the race known as the mri, who have hired themselves out as mercenaries for thousands of years.  The mri are a race wtih their own rigid customs, especially involving fighting, and since they tend to value one on one combat, humans go and wipe them out because we have no problem throwing a million soldiers at a problem.  The story opens as preparations are wrapped up for handing over the current mri homeworld to the humans.  In the process, the regul make a decision that is not all that beneficial to the mri and things escalate from there.  If Cherryh has one excellent attribute, she knows how to write alien species and make them seem alien, so that their weird logic and customs feel absolutely natural to the species, even as it's something we can't completely understand.  She shines when depicting the mri and the regul, who are polar opposites, but equally alien.  In the course of the story, a human, Stel Duncan, gets involved with the mri and helps them figure out where they came from.  Spread out over the course of three novels, things move slow at times, but Cherryh layers on enough political manuevering to keep things interesting without it getting too talky, sprinkling it with secrets about the mysterious mri culture.  While they come across as noble warriors (perhaps stereotypically so) she doesn't hesitate to point out their failings as a species as well, and really nobody is perfect in this work.  The second book is probably the most interesting since we've already dispensed with the introductions (the first novel takes a while to get started, as we're introduced to the declining mri culture and the aftermath of the war) and showcases Duncan taking steps to become invested in the mri culture.  The third novel can get confusing at times and there were several sequences where I wasn't sure what was going on, as all the machinations come to a head and everyone is trying to kill everyone else, but things are wrapped up in a satisifying manner and after seven hundred odd pages you don't feel like you wasted your time.  And again I want to point out how solid Cherryh makes her backstory, especially with details involving the regul-human war.  You get the sense that the conflict could carry a series of novels on its own and it's interesting that for all the talk of mri fighting prowess, we really don't see them in battle, which I think is the point.  The focus of the story is on their culture and not how they fight.  Due to its size, it's probably not the first place for the Cherryh newbie to start (I would recommend Cuckoo's Egg, followed by Downbelow Station and then Cyteen) but for those who have exhausted those books and are looking for the next step, this is definitely the place to go.keep things interesting without it getting too talky, sprinkling it with secrets about the mysterious mri culture.  While they come across as noble warriors (perhaps stereotypically so) she doesn't hesitate to point out their failings as a species as well, and really nobody is perfect in this work.  The second book is probably the most interesting since we've already dispensed with the introductions (the first novel takes a while to get started, as we're introduced to the declining mri culture and the aftermath of the war) and showcases Duncan taking steps to become invested in the mri culture.  The third novel can get confusing at times and there were several sequences where I wasn't sure what was going on, as all the machinations come to a head and everyone is trying to kill everyone else, but things are wrapped up in a satisifying manner and after seven hundred odd pages you don't feel like you wasted your time.  And again I want to point out how solid Cherryh makes her backstory, especially with details involving the regul-human war.  You get the sense that the conflict could carry a series of novels on its own and it's interesting that for all the talk of mri fighting prowess, we really don't see them in battle, which I think is the point.  The focus of the story is on their culture and not how they fight.  Due to its size, it's probably not the first place for the Cherryh newbie to start (I would recommend Cuckoo's Egg, followed by Downbelow Station and then Cyteen) but for those who have exhausted those books and are looking for the next step, this is definitely the place to go.	2004-12-07
US	52986477	R3DTP8T26B6WG6	1585676020	69847932	Cities in Flight	Books	5	38	44	N	N	Now that's an apt title!	Probably the only way Mr Blish could have made the title anymore self-explanatory would be to call it \\"Cities in Space\\" but that's not really as poetic.  Mostly due to that teeming mass we fondly call pop culture, if you've heard of James Blish at all it's probably by way of his novelisations of Star Trek episodes, which is where I first heard of him (and they really aren't half bad, honestly) but as it turns out he was one of the smarter SF writers of the fifties.  His SF reputation basically rests on two novels, A Case of Conscience (which is a decent examination of original sin from a SF perspective) and the collective groups of novels known as Cities in Flight, which we'll be talking about here.  Over the course of time Blish wrote four average sized novels depicting over time man discovering the ability to launch entire cities into space and the culture that developed around them as the centuries wore on.  The first novel \\"They Shall Have Stars\\" mostly serves as a really long prologue to the proceedings, showing how the technology was developed, as well as the secret to halting the aging process, indispensible to staying in space for a really long time.  The story also functions as a political thriller on some level, showing the earth of the future as more narrowminded and religious (always an easy target, alas) and focused more upon itself, crumbling even as he moves forward.  Still, it's really just prelude for what's to come.  \\"A Life for the Stars\\" is next, and is basically a better introduction to the culture of the flying cities, as they weave their way through space, taking odd jobs.  Blish does a decent job making a somehow plausible stab at what a wandering space culture would be like, although I do have to agree that he rarely gives you a sense of the massiveness of a city and all the people inside it, instead focusing only on a small handful (I mean they're on NYC, for pete's sake) which takes some of the epicness away from it, although the fact that it's a giant city rocketing through space helps.  \\"Earthman Come Home\\" is probably my favorite of the group (and it's the longest) focusing on the mayor of NYC, John Amalfi (who was glimpsed in the last novel but takes center stage for this and the next one) as he deals with some crises over the course of a novel, showing the downsides of a wandering culture (what if there's no jobs?) and what drastic actions those people might take, it's the widest ranging examination and description of Blish's future history.  The last novel \\"Truimph of Time\\" mostly ties things up, bringing the crew back one last time after centuries have past to deal with the one thing they'll never be able to deal with and wrapping up things nicely, on a real poetic note.  Blish's novels are hugely readable and move at a good clip, the characterization isn't what it could be (a common complaint for fifties' SF, since putting the idea forward was more important) and since the novels were written so long ago some of the science is suspect (a lot is outdated and the rest is just babbling) . . . also, the novels sometimes act more like collections of short stories, as the city moves from one unrelated crisis to another.  But in terms of ideas and scope, Blish was standing nearly alone and I have to admit I have a fondness for the type of SF that liked the idea of strapping giant engines onto things and sending them into space.  Sure it's not as graceful but it's much for a better mental image.  If you're looking for cutting edge, sophisticated SF for the new century, this probably isn't what you're looking for, but for those who like to see one man lay out wild ideas in a calm, level fashion, this is probably some of the best stories you can get from this era and well worth the look.it's a giant city rocketing through space helps.  \\"Earthman Come Home\\" is probably my favorite of the group (and it's the longest) focusing on the mayor of NYC, John Amalfi (who was glimpsed in the last novel but takes center stage for this and the next one) as he deals with some crises over the course of a novel, showing the downsides of a wandering culture (what if there's no jobs?) and what drastic actions those people might take, it's the widest ranging examination and description of Blish's future history.  The last novel \\"Truimph of Time\\" mostly ties things up, bringing the crew back one last time after centuries have past to deal with the one thing they'll never be able to deal with and wrapping up things nicely, on a real poetic note.  Blish's novels are hugely readable and move at a good clip, the characterization isn't what it could be (a common complaint for fifties' SF, since putting the idea forward was more important) and since the novels were written so long ago some of the science is suspect (a lot is outdated and the rest is just babbling) . . . also, the novels sometimes act more like collections of short stories, as the city moves from one unrelated crisis to another.  But in terms of ideas and scope, Blish was standing nearly alone and I have to admit I have a fondness for the type of SF that liked the idea of strapping giant engines onto things and sending them into space.  Sure it's not as graceful but it's much for a better mental image.  If you're looking for cutting edge, sophisticated SF for the new century, this probably isn't what you're looking for, but for those who like to see one man lay out wild ideas in a calm, level fashion, this is probably some of the best stories you can get from this era and well worth the look.	2004-11-05
US	52986477	R5LDZ0D90I593	0553281879	467810654	No Enemy But Time	Books	5	10	12	N	N	Kind of a time travel story	If I recall correctly, Nebula awards are typically voted on by the SF Writers of America Association, which means that by winning one it's generally a mark of recognition by your peers, a sign that you're admired by other writers in your field and worthy enough that a majority of them voted to give you an award (as opposed to the Hugo, which is generally voted on by the fans).  In that sense, this is probably a book that will appeal more to writers than SF fans, if only because there is very little SF in the book at all.  That doesn't mean it's not a well written, well constructed novel, it's just not very science-fictional.  Those looking for a time travel type novel in the realm of Gregory Benford's \\"Timescape\\" or even HG Wells' \\"The Time Machine\\" will probably find themselves disappointed.  Some time travelling apparently does occur but this isn't really a book where the focus is on fancy machinary and weird theories involving quantem physics.  What we have here is the story of Joshua, a man who constantly \\"dreams\\" of a prehistoric past, a time when the forerunners of man walked the earth.  He's tapped for a secret Air Force project in Africa where they have machines that will somehow harness his dreams and take him back to that time period, where he can report on what actually went on back then, things that the anthropologists can't figure out with just fossils and tools and whatnot.  So Joshua goes back and winds up spending way more time there than he initially planned.  Interspersed with the story of his adventures with proto-man are scenes from his early life, showing him growing up, interacting with a foster family and laying the seeds for what eventually would be his time travelling.  The weird thing is, these interludes are far more interesting than the time travelling story, infusing the character with a lot more emotion and dimenesions than the other sequences do.  The trip back starts out interesting, as Joshua runs into a small group of early man and integrates himself into their lives, and Bishop does a really good job speculating at what the society of early man might be like, their family groups and interactions with each other, as well as how they existed from day to day.  Thing is, he gets that out of the way early and it just becomes aimless wandering, with Joshua's frequently flippant narration (he gives all the proto-men (and ladies) names, but I can't tell them apart, and tells them stories that are basically nonsense because they can't understand him anyway) substituting for anything resembling actual human interaction (because they can't talk to him and only have a limited understanding it's like he's rooming with a bunch of mimes) the prehistoric scenes start to suffer from a lack of direction, like Bishop found he liked the story of Joshua growing up a lot more and was just using the main story to kill time and space.  Some scenes are pretty effective, especially the moments that deal with early mortality.  But Bishop seems to be suggesting the whole thing is just a weird dream (does the gun ever run out of bullets?) and as such there are moments that don't make any sense at all (who the heck gets eaten?) and can only be attributed to dream logic.  The big climax scene is basically solved by a \\"and then I decided we all could fly\\" solution and the aftermath of his time travelling is just . . . odd.  Don't get the impression that I didn't like the book, I really did and Bishop gets credit for tackling the subject of time travel, both by using a different focus (prehistory) and for going about it in such an offbeat way.  And by shuffling in the scenes of his youth, he adds a welcome depth to the character, to the point where I was looking more forward to the family scenes than anything else.  That said, you can probably chalk this book up to \\"reach exceeds his grasp\\" sort of deal, where his ambition outstripped his ability.  However, it's still well worth your time to track it down, especially if you're looking for something that isn't the tried and true and don't mind a little bit of the fantastic mixed in with your science.re looking for something that isn't the tried and true and don't mind a little bit of the fantastic mixed in with your science.	2004-10-18
US	52986477	R2MIQUAJ867S17	0891905235	66295034	Shadrach in the Furnace	Books	5	5	6	N	N	There are only so many ways you can say "he's great!"	I'm sure Mr Silverberg has mediocre or less than brilliant books somewhere lurking somewhere in his canon (good as he is, nobody has a perfect batting average, unless you only write one great book and then die, which is a different kind of bad) and  maybe I should go off and read some of those, because it would sure make reviewing his classic books that much easier.  This is yet another excellent addition to the world of SF, detailing a coherent and believable future world with a story that focuses more on characters than wowing us with hard science and uses the trappings of SF to tell said story, putting plot and characterization first.  Of course, it's no longer in print, but that's pretty much a given with this stuff now, eh?  In yet another interesting twist on an old concept, Silverberg takes the idea of the old man wanting to live forever.  Now, this can be done well (like this book) or poorly (Heinlein's I Will Fear No Evil) but Silverberg doesn't just focus on the situation, but expands it to include the world itself.  Genghis II Mao IV Khan (or something like that) has taken over the world some years back and his governments rule over everything, in the wake of a Virus War that has inflicted most people with an organ rotting disease.  However, he's an old man now, nearly a hundred and subject to constant transplants and surgeries to stay healthy, and he's looking to the day when those no longer work.  Shadrach is his personal physician, wired with sensors and things that constantly key him into the dictator's state of health.  When it turns out that the dictator's scientists will be able to transfer his mind and peronality into another, younger, healthier body, the person they settle on is . . . Shadrach himself.  Silverberg takes this central concept and travels far with it, creating compelling characters, from the scientists working to further the dictator's agenda, to the possibly not wrapped too tight dictator, to all the people who willingly work with a despot, to Shadrach himself.  The plot is by no means breakneck but a heck of a lot happens as Silverberg details a world enslaved but still functioning after a fashion.  He makes no moral judgements, not painting anyone as truly good or evil, everyone is grey, from the security guy who hates torturing people but does it because it's his job, to Shadrach, who has to wrestle with keeping the man who rules the planet with an iron fist healthy.  In the process he shows us all the corners of the world, the inner workings of a dictator's reign and even the state of religion in a world falling apart.  Again, one of the most amazing things about Silverberg is his ability to cram all these concepts into a slim (two hundred and fifty pages!) book and make it feel complete.  His use of the present tense gives the book a calm immediacy, sprinkled with Shadrach's version of the Khan's diary.  This is SF at its quietly experimental best, telling a thought provoking story and utilizing his typically effortless techniques to weave a plot that falls together perfectly, surprisingly and in the only way it could.  Although the ending has an open ended quality to it, Silverberg never wrote a sequel to it and he never needed to.  Along with the rest of his stuff, this is highly recommended and well worth your time to track it down, or badgering a publisher to get it back out there again.a despot, to Shadrach himself.  The plot is by no means breakneck but a heck of a lot happens as Silverberg details a world enslaved but still functioning after a fashion.  He makes no moral judgements, not painting anyone as truly good or evil, everyone is grey, from the security guy who hates torturing people but does it because it's his job, to Shadrach, who has to wrestle with keeping the man who rules the planet with an iron fist healthy.  In the process he shows us all the corners of the world, the inner workings of a dictator's reign and even the state of religion in a world falling apart.  Again, one of the most amazing things about Silverberg is his ability to cram all these concepts into a slim (two hundred and fifty pages!) book and make it feel complete.  His use of the present tense gives the book a calm immediacy, sprinkled with Shadrach's version of the Khan's diary.  This is SF at its quietly experimental best, telling a thought provoking story and utilizing his typically effortless techniques to weave a plot that falls together perfectly, surprisingly and in the only way it could.  Although the ending has an open ended quality to it, Silverberg never wrote a sequel to it and he never needed to.  Along with the rest of his stuff, this is highly recommended and well worth your time to track it down, or badgering a publisher to get it back out there again.	2004-10-01
US	52986477	RE7KO1IQXJF0M	0425039528	768114241	Downward To The Earth	Books	5	10	11	N	N	Yet another classic, of course	One day some publisher will wise up and make a nice slipcase set of all of Silverberg's thirteen or so classic seventies novels, if only to startle people into Silverberg's sheer level of variety in that decade, something that I've seen very few authors do since (Iain Banks comes the closest and even he has a bunch of \\"Culture\\" novels).  Most of the books are short, they make their points concisely, poignantly and finish off in a way that keeps the themes resonating in the readers' minds.  Of course, most of them are out of print, although the situation is much better than it was only a couple of years ago.  \\"Dying Inside\\" is back, as is \\"Tower of Glass\\" and \\"The Masks of Time\\" and even \\"A Time of Changes\\" I've seen recently.  So it looks like the long drought is over, but there are still some outliers roaming around, waiting to be republished.  \\"Downward to the Earth\\" is one of them, alas, sadly enough.  The story concerns itself on one level with the theme of transcendence, along with trying to understand an alien culture and adapt its lessons to ourselves.  The main character of the story was an administrator of a planet inhabited by two sets of sentinent cultures, a planet that Earth subsequently relinquished all claims on and let the cultures retake the planet.  He comes to visit to see the changes that the years have wrought and to visit the old spots that he used to know.  But he also uses the visit as a time to reflect over potential wrong acts that he allowed under his watch, some which he personally enacted.  So what follows is a journey into the planet, as he comes into contact with the races and goes to discover the meaning of their \\"rebirth\\", along the way finding that the planet changes people far more than people ever hoped to change the planet.  What is always amazing about these books is the absolute effortlessness of Silverberg's writing and plotting, how it all fits together seamlessly, how it swaggers with quiet confidence, not needing loud action scenes or screaming, for the most part it's people walking around and talking.  And it's absolutely fascinating.  Silverberg does an excellent job of detailing the cultures and making them suitably alien, not so different that we can't relate but it's clear that there are some things that we'll never completely understand.  The revelations come as planned, and are absolutely shocking and his control over the plot is masterful.  These days a story like this would probably warrant an over-the-top trilogy of sorts, bringing the characters through wrenching changes.  Silverberg doesn't need to do that, everyone and everything feels real and if not for the setting and the outlandishness of some scenes, it could be a normal story about one man's acceptance of the past and his search for forgiveness.  That it still works, even in the strange setting, with unfamiliar creatures, is a testament to Silverberg's skill as a writer.  In the seventies he accomplished that rare thing, a compact, complete novel that brings something new to the genre, says what it needs to say and gets out, without leaving dangling threads that cry out for a needless sequel.  And he didn't do it once, but many, many times.  If there were more bodies of work like his, maybe SF wouldn't be seen as the home purely of spaceships and rayguns.  Unfortunately, that didn't happen, but at least we do have his body of work.  Of course, we don't have a nice complete slipcased set of them, but there's always hope.  You never know.n scenes or screaming, for the most part it's people walking around and talking.  And it's absolutely fascinating.  Silverberg does an excellent job of detailing the cultures and making them suitably alien, not so different that we can't relate but it's clear that there are some things that we'll never completely understand.  The revelations come as planned, and are absolutely shocking and his control over the plot is masterful.  These days a story like this would probably warrant an over-the-top trilogy of sorts, bringing the characters through wrenching changes.  Silverberg doesn't need to do that, everyone and everything feels real and if not for the setting and the outlandishness of some scenes, it could be a normal story about one man's acceptance of the past and his search for forgiveness.  That it still works, even in the strange setting, with unfamiliar creatures, is a testament to Silverberg's skill as a writer.  In the seventies he accomplished that rare thing, a compact, complete novel that brings something new to the genre, says what it needs to say and gets out, without leaving dangling threads that cry out for a needless sequel.  And he didn't do it once, but many, many times.  If there were more bodies of work like his, maybe SF wouldn't be seen as the home purely of spaceships and rayguns.  Unfortunately, that didn't happen, but at least we do have his body of work.  Of course, we don't have a nice complete slipcased set of them, but there's always hope.  You never know.	2004-09-29
US	52986477	R1D5S76E5CWU6O	055302311X	860101784	The Embedding	Books	5	11	13	N	N	Aims high, misses by that much	This book is generally famous within the annals of SF for really dealing with the concept of language and its nature, indicating a level of thought that wasn't often seen in the genre and helping to elevate its status above that of \\"rayguns and spaceships\\", which is how people typically see these types of novels.  The origins and evolution of language is one of the more fascinating topics in the world, and many a person spends a large amount of time trying to piece together evidence in order to discover the \\"original language\\".  Ian Watson probably has a background as a linguist to some extent (or at least he's well read), but it doesn't translate as well into novel form as one might hope.  One of fiction's most famous linguists was, of course, JRR Tolkein, who basically came up with Lord of the Rings to field test his nifty Elven language that he came up with.  Ian Watson doesn't go to those extremes and keeps things more in the realm of the abstract and the story suffers a little for it.  It may be a case of biting off more than he can chew, because there are a lot of subplots swimming around in what turns out to be a fairly slim book (ah, the old days of SF, nowadays half the plots take up ten times the space, thank you, \\"decompression\\") . . . you have a team of researchers isolating children and giving them a certain drug to see if they can stimulate them into creating their own language, an \\"embedded\\" one, you also have a French fellow in the Amazon jungle studying a tribe that appears to connect to an Other-Reality when taking a local herb, allowing things like myth and legend to be experienced through language (or something), lastly you have aliens from beyond the solar system showing up to barter because they're fascinated by our language.  And much like \\"Day of the Dead\\" they want brains.  The cover copy on this novel, as if typical of most seventies SF books, tends to overpromise up the wazoo, calling the book a \\"superthriller about mind control\\" when I'm not really sure that's the case.  Not only is the book not exactly thrilling in the same way that a good spy novel is, it's not really about mind control either, unless that went over my head.  I originally thought that the focus of the story was going to be on the aliens and our attempts to understand them and that would be where the language theories would come in, much like \\"Solaris\\" (which this book is compared to on the cover) it could be have been about our attempts to understand that which we have little common ground with.  Alas, the aliens speak perfect English, just like any other SF alien.  So instead the book is all over the place, to the aliens, the kids, the jungle, back and forth and it's not really clear where any of it is going.  The importance of the Other-Reality language that the natives can tap into isn't really that clear and the implications of the experiments on the kids is never really apparent either.  Needless to say there's probaly just too much plot stuffed into too little space, although the sketches of Watson's ideas are absolutely fascinating and it's a better first novel than anything I might have written (or have written, I should say).  By the end it all gets quite psychedelic and more science-fictional, and it all becomes rather vague.  Watson gets credit for tackling so much at once and for introducing questions on the nature of language itself and its ability to manipulate reality, an honest to Asimov original idea in SF.  Unfortunately intent and execution aren't the same thing and a lot gets lost, the reader is left with a lot of pieces that don't really connect in any obvious fashion and the transcendental feeling that Watson is shooting for kind of falls flat.  But it does read quick and a lot of the scenes are quite fun, most of the interactions with the aliens are interesting and the bits with the tribe range from intriguing to disturbing (including one of the most disturbing moments I've ever read in SF . . . look for itwhen the baby shows up), the problem is that scattered decent scenes don't add up to a classic novel.  But it still deserves to be on your reading list and should be required reading for anyone looking to devour the more important novels of the genre.  Just be warned that what you expect may not be what you get.when the baby shows up), the problem is that scattered decent scenes don't add up to a classic novel.  But it still deserves to be on your reading list and should be required reading for anyone looking to devour the more important novels of the genre.  Just be warned that what you expect may not be what you get.	2004-09-26
US	52986477	R1LKFPCSLX5K6K	156504987X	63254875	Count Brass (Eternal Champion, Volume 15)	Books	5	7	7	N	N	And so it ends, sort of	In the interests of full disclosure, I'm reviewing not the White Wolf American edition of this omnibus, but the British edition, which as far as I know contains the same material.  The White Wolf editions used to trumpet that they were \\"newly revised for their US publication\\" but I doubt there were any drastic changes in them other than fixing typos and smoothing over inconsistencies, since Moorcock basically stated in his introduction to every single book how he had to restrain himself from doing even minor story revisions because once you start it's hard to stop and he wanted to maintain the quickly written fire of youth sensibility that was in those earlier stories.  That said, this is the last volume of the series and in theory closes out the sequence, by returning the focus to Hawkmoon, who we really haven't seen since book 3.  In the first novel \\"Count Brass\\", we move to the aftermath of Hawkmoon's saving the world, as he wishes for all his of friends that had died during the conflict with the Black Empire were still alive . . . and finds that sometimes you can get what you want and still not be happy.  The first novel's probably the best of the bunch, having the most coherent plot and the most interesting mystery, the everpresent multiverse stuff is kept in the background to some extent and doesn't seek to overwhelm everything.  Dangling threads are carried over into the second novel \\"Champion of Garathorn\\" but it mostly consists of Hawkmoon becoming another Champion and saving other people on a different plane.  The last novel \\"Quest for Tanelorn\\" essentially functions as a conclusion of sorts to the entire saga that spread out over the last fifteen books but Moorcock just falls back into the pseudogibberish that sometimes characterizes his more fantastic sequences and settles with bringing four champions together to save everything, which we've seen before, at least twice.  The first time, it was neat, the second, entertaining, now it's just \\"ho-hum\\" because he doesn't bring anything new to the concept, they join together and smash stuff.  For the record, it was nice seeing Corum and Elric one last time, and even Erekose, although he's from the first book and I don't remember him too clearly.  But the novel has the hallmarks of being written quickly, or at least the story being made it as the author goes along because it all wraps up far too neatly and quickly and starts to lose sense after a bit (so who was the sword again?) and it's more of a \\"grand finally\\" than a grand finale.  In his defense, however, wrapping up a saga of this scope and breadth would require a War and Peace sized novel, and Moorcock only really focuses on the fantasy-related champions, not even bringing the SF-esque ones (Jerry Cornelius, Jherek, etc), so while it feels like AN ending and wraps up the stories of Hawkmoon and Elric and Corum and Erekose, I can't really accept it as THE ending.  But at least it's happy, in a way, which is  rare commodity with the Champions.  Regardless, it's nice to finally finish this and I have to say that the publishers, American and British, should be congratulated on bringing all these stories together under one banner, cleaning them up and arranging them for new readers, I would have never been able to gather all the required stories together and the entire Eternal Champion series is essential for those looking to understand Moorcock.  On a personal note, it is interesting to finally finish this, I started reading these volumes back in the mid-nineties sometime, so to finish this one and have no more to look forward, too . . . it's interesting.  Still, it was time well spent and I suspect other readers feel the same.e he doesn't bring anything new to the concept, they join together and smash stuff.  For the record, it was nice seeing Corum and Elric one last time, and even Erekose, although he's from the first book and I don't remember him too clearly.  But the novel has the hallmarks of being written quickly, or at least the story being made it as the author goes along because it all wraps up far too neatly and quickly and starts to lose sense after a bit (so who was the sword again?) and it's more of a \\"grand finally\\" than a grand finale.  In his defense, however, wrapping up a saga of this scope and breadth would require a War and Peace sized novel, and Moorcock only really focuses on the fantasy-related champions, not even bringing the SF-esque ones (Jerry Cornelius, Jherek, etc), so while it feels like AN ending and wraps up the stories of Hawkmoon and Elric and Corum and Erekose, I can't really accept it as THE ending.  But at least it's happy, in a way, which is  rare commodity with the Champions.  Regardless, it's nice to finally finish this and I have to say that the publishers, American and British, should be congratulated on bringing all these stories together under one banner, cleaning them up and arranging them for new readers, I would have never been able to gather all the required stories together and the entire Eternal Champion series is essential for those looking to understand Moorcock.  On a personal note, it is interesting to finally finish this, I started reading these volumes back in the mid-nineties sometime, so to finish this one and have no more to look forward, too . . . it's interesting.  Still, it was time well spent and I suspect other readers feel the same.	2004-09-23
US	52986477	R3BKWYHJM9LNYX	1565049861	36883782	Earl Aubec and Other Stories	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Not so much "Aubec" as "And Other Stories" but still good	The title of this book is a tad deceiving in the sense that in really big letters the cover trumpets \\"EARL AUBEC\\" and then in smaller letter smushed underneath the big title you have \\"and other stories\\" when really it should be the other way around.  The title probably should have been \\"all the stories we didn't have room to fit in the other books\\" but that's not as catchy and probably wouldn't sell as well.  I can't fault them for wanting to make money.  You get the \\"Earl Aubec\\" part over with fast, it's the first story and not very long and I really didn't see the point of it other than it's somehow related to the Elric saga, if Mr Aubec is an Eternal Champion, he's not a very memorable one.  So if you're buying the book purely for that story you're going to be in for some disappointment.  However, the other stories do make up for that somewhat, the rest of the book (and it's hefty, almost six hundred pages) consists of a variety of short stories and longer stories that Moorcock's done over the last thirty years or so.  I'm not sure what logic he used in picking these stories over others and they do try to arrange them to give lip service to some kind of overarching \\"concept\\" but it really doesn't matter.  For the most part the stories are pretty decent, showcasing his imagination and penchant for odd ideas.  Some stories are really short, only a few pages and they make their point and move on, while others are much longer and develop over the course of their lengths.  There's no real duffers in the lot, though, and everyone could probably pick different favorites from the set, although the quality does tend to bounce up and down.  Overall, it's a good collection, only tangentially related to the Eternal Champion concept (that I could tell at least) and not really a definitive collection by any stretch of the imagination, it's more of a clearinghouse for all those stories that really don't fit anywhere else.  Which is just fine and the world is a better place for having had these available in one place like this, because Moorcock is worth reading.  It's probably not worth paying the ridiculous used prices that I see for the White Wolf editions (what. the. heck?) although the cover painting by Jon Muth (formerly of Epic Comics' Moonshadow, he does the interior sketches as well) is really nice, but if you see it for a reasonable price, I'd say it's worth a shot.  There's so many stories in here you'll have to like something, right?  Nobody's that picky, eh?having had these available in one place like this, because Moorcock is worth reading.  It's probably not worth paying the ridiculous used prices that I see for the White Wolf editions (what. the. heck?) although the cover painting by Jon Muth (formerly of Epic Comics' Moonshadow, he does the interior sketches as well) is really nice, but if you see it for a reasonable price, I'd say it's worth a shot.  There's so many stories in here you'll have to like something, right?  Nobody's that picky, eh?	2004-09-12
US	52986477	R28ITY4IGZSS2V	1565041895	213033671	13: Legends From the End of Time (Eternal Champion)	Books	5	12	13	N	N	Not really Eternal Championesque, but still entertaining	The End of Time stories are probably some of the weirdest ones for Moorcock fans to assimilate because they really don't fit in with the tone of the rest of the novels.  It's not straight SF \\"Nomad of the Time Streams\\" or \\"Sailing to Utopia\\" and it's definitely not the warped fantasy of Elric and Corum.  Depending on how you look at it, it's either incisive social commentary or Moorcock just having a ball and writing some really funny stuff.  This volume exists as a companion to the tenth volume of White Wolf's series, Dancers at the End of Time, which mostly dealt with Jherek's love affair with Victorian era Amelia Underwood and the events that erupted from that.  None of the stories here deal in any way, shape or form with that.  Jherek and Amelia don't even appear, except as brief mentions in dialogue asides.  So what you have here is a series of short stories of varying length focusing on the other characters and their relatively aimless lives.  Since the characters on their own are fun, but not terribly interesting (the frivolous thing gets tiring fast) Moorcock brings in other people to bounce off the Dancers and add some fun contrast.  Since the inhabitants at the end of time are like little children without any kind of conscience (though they're pretty harmless, but then resurrections are common too) throwing in extra time travellers, either newcomers or ones who have been hanging around for a while, tends to give the story some interesting situations to play with.  What basically makes the stories work is Moorcock apparently boundless imagination, he makes you believe in this utterly farfetched concept of a society at the end of time where everyone just basically putzes around like little godlings until the end of everything arrives and even makes you care about the characters, even though they only sporadically care about others and really can't be hurt . . . somehow you still care.  Maybe I'm just an old softie.  None of the stories can be considered essential in the sense that they further Moorcock's concept of the multiverse, being it's the end of time the multiverse has basically ceased to exist anyway (thank you, entropy) and there are scattered references to the ongoing amorphous plot that happens in the background but nobody really pays attention to it and a good time is had by all.  If anything, the last story \\"Elric at the End of Time\\" appears to be Moorcock making fun of his younger self, contrasting the bombastic and melodramatic Elric and his endless whining with the eternally cheerful end of time folks and their more subtle brand of comedy (and commentary).  Not pointless but not required reading for those who devote every waking moment to the multiverse novels, this ground of tales stand to showcase Moorcock's talent and imagination.  But considering how much used copies go for (geez, did White Wolf only print ten copies of each book?) you don't have to kill yourself to find it.ntial in the sense that they further Moorcock's concept of the multiverse, being it's the end of time the multiverse has basically ceased to exist anyway (thank you, entropy) and there are scattered references to the ongoing amorphous plot that happens in the background but nobody really pays attention to it and a good time is had by all.  If anything, the last story \\"Elric at the End of Time\\" appears to be Moorcock making fun of his younger self, contrasting the bombastic and melodramatic Elric and his endless whining with the eternally cheerful end of time folks and their more subtle brand of comedy (and commentary).  Not pointless but not required reading for those who devote every waking moment to the multiverse novels, this ground of tales stand to showcase Moorcock's talent and imagination.  But considering how much used copies go for (geez, did White Wolf only print ten copies of each book?) you don't have to kill yourself to find it.	2004-08-16
US	52986477	REF3IR14YJSQV	1565041887	117592701	Corum: The Prince With the Silver Hand	Books	5	6	6	N	Y	Celtic free for all	In America at least, I think Moorcock has been overlooked as a notable pioneer in fantasy. At the very least he's merely underrated but as I read more and more of his work I realize how much he's influenced writers of today and the recent past, especially in the fantasy genre. Elric took the concept of the &quot;anti-hero&quot; and ran with it and Corum injects a whole heap of Celtic mythology into the proceedings, with quite entertaining results. Nowadays, some writers (Charles DeLint is the one who comes to mind right away) pretty much base their entire careers on building on those mythologies and folklores, but when Moorcock put all this stuff together, I don't think it was as common and I wonder what people thought of it at the time. This is another volume in White Wolf's Eternal Champion series and the second entire book to feature Corum (he's had cameos in other stories throughout) and this one basically wraps up his saga. Pound for pound I think Corum is a far more interesting character than Elric . . . Elric, while fun in a &quot;gee what new tragedy will happen to him so he can complain about it&quot; sort of way, probably has the biggest appeal these days to teenage fantasy lovers who mostly fixate on &quot;Cool! He sucked out that guy's soul!&quot;. Corum, on the other hand, is more well rounded, he has definite doubts after saving the world, he misses his late wife but is prepared to move on, has a sense of humor and is actually proactive once in a while, which I think gives the stories more narrative drive, as opposed to the Champion reacting to stuff over and over again. These last three stories in the series have separate plots but mostly deal with the ongoing problem of saving the world from huge demigods from Limbo that would really like to get back but since they can't would rather just destroy the world (I'll give Moorcock this, his villains are unique). Corum is summoned to the future (really the past, or at least an alternate world) to save the world from these menaces and proceeds to get hip-deep in Celtic mythology. Moorcock sure seems to have done his research and it's hard to tell where he's drawing from other sources and where he's simply just making it up. The plot do suffer to some extent from the &quot;plot coupon&quot; mentality, where Corum has to go track down the long lost rare artifacts (the titles of the stories are a good clue) generally by way of a lot of tangential side quests, but Moorcock piles on so much local flavor that you don't really notice and he does take time to throw in extra twists and wrinkles so it doesn't feel color-by-numbers. The ending is typically downbeat (I know they're called &quot;champions&quot; but boy do their lives stink) but it's a fast entertaining read and probably possessed of more reread value than the Elric stuff, this definitely makes for a more consistent reading experience throughout. A must for both fantasy fans (the White Wolf volumes are sadly out of print, I'm sure the British or the originals are all available, although I'm not sure how much revision was done) and those who enjoy adding a sprinkling of Celtic folklore to their reading.world from these menaces and proceeds to get hip-deep in Celtic mythology. Moorcock sure seems to have done his research and it's hard to tell where he's drawing from other sources and where he's simply just making it up. The plot do suffer to some extent from the &quot;plot coupon&quot; mentality, where Corum has to go track down the long lost rare artifacts (the titles of the stories are a good clue) generally by way of a lot of tangential side quests, but Moorcock piles on so much local flavor that you don't really notice and he does take time to throw in extra twists and wrinkles so it doesn't feel color-by-numbers. The ending is typically downbeat (I know they're called &quot;champions&quot; but boy do their lives stink) but it's a fast entertaining read and probably possessed of more reread value than the Elric stuff, this definitely makes for a more consistent reading experience throughout. A must for both fantasy fans (the White Wolf volumes are sadly out of print, I'm sure the British or the originals are all available, although I'm not sure how much revision was done) and those who enjoy adding a sprinkling of Celtic folklore to their reading.	2004-08-03
US	52986477	R1EMM3LCJZKTJR	1565041879	324172065	Elric: Stealer of Souls (The Tale of the Eternal Champion, Vol 11)	Books	5	10	14	N	N	This book will suck out your soul!	Not really, but somewhere there's a great tagline for an ad campaign for this book waiting to be used. Michael Moorcock has a gigantic catalog of novels and short stories, many of them dealing with his Multiverse concept, in which Law and Chaos constantly battle and a fellow known as the Eternal Champion tends to help sort it all out, with varying results. Back in the last decade White Wolf and Moorcock took most of the stories/novels, grouped them by character and concept and then put them out as a series of collections. This is the eleventh of those and second featuring Elric, perhaps Moorcock's most famous creation. While not my personal favorite of Moorcock's many characters (that honor goes to Jerry Cornelius, who I find has more personality) Elric definitely has a loyal following and his stories did a lot to nurse the then fairly low-key epic fantasy genre. Basically, Elric is a weak albino from a very old race that is dying out (and is quite evil) but he carries the magical sword Stormbringer that likes to suck the souls out of people (though Moorcock never says where the souls go, into the sword or straight to hell?), thus giving the sword and Elric vitality. Unfortunately, Elric has a very rough life and that makes him a somewhat dour person, since he's constantly caught between Law and Chaos (technically he's on Chaos' team though he swaps sides often). The stories in this volume depict the end of the Elric saga, when the war between Law and Chaos heats up on Elric's world and finally threatens to come to a conclusion. Moorcock's type of fantasy takes some getting used to, with a lot of really odd place names and bizarre monsters (some sound like they're straight out of Lovecraft) as well as some definitely odd situations. Elric himself seems to act more as an observer in most of these stories, trying to keep out of trouble. The earlier stories are typically the most formulaic (though brilliant for anyone else, as the cliche goes), since Elric generally has to fight Someone Bad and often saves the day by casting a spell or invoking the aid of some Old Elemental Spirit or just wading through crowds of people with his magical intelligent sword (oh by the way, it wants to kill all his friends too). Moorcock has definite style and flair when executing this kind of material but if you read them all at once there can be a definite sameness about them, where Elric just mopes and mopes and goes &quot;wow is me&quot; for chapters on end before getting attacked and summoning dragons or something to save him. The later stories (and Revenge of the Rose, which was written later) are much better, especially when they deal with the Multiverse directly, because the ideas and action and giant battles just keep coming, until it becomes a kind of sensory overload and toward the end of Stormbringer (the last story) everything gets all weird and metaphysical and it's just great. Moorcock can be lauded for bringing a mature sensibility to fantasy (Elric's a dour fellow but he has his passions) and for all of Elric's moping, he's far more memorable than most other fantasy characters. I won't go as far to say that these are his best work (again, I like the Cornelius stuff better and I haven't read Mother London or the Pyat novels yet) but for lovers of fantasy it's basically essential (if you can find them, the White Wolf editions went out of print and apparently command a high price, they must have been rare . . . the British editions are still available, I think) and no matter what you think of his style it's clearly one of the more original concepts in a genre that feels fit to merely repeat the work of a certain hobbit-loving author over and over again. Moorcock stands on his own and to understand fantasy at all, these books are required reading.s to fight Someone Bad and often saves the day by casting a spell or invoking the aid of some Old Elemental Spirit or just wading through crowds of people with his magical intelligent sword (oh by the way, it wants to kill all his friends too). Moorcock has definite style and flair when executing this kind of material but if you read them all at once there can be a definite sameness about them, where Elric just mopes and mopes and goes &quot;wow is me&quot; for chapters on end before getting attacked and summoning dragons or something to save him. The later stories (and Revenge of the Rose, which was written later) are much better, especially when they deal with the Multiverse directly, because the ideas and action and giant battles just keep coming, until it becomes a kind of sensory overload and toward the end of Stormbringer (the last story) everything gets all weird and metaphysical and it's just great. Moorcock can be lauded for bringing a mature sensibility to fantasy (Elric's a dour fellow but he has his passions) and for all of Elric's moping, he's far more memorable than most other fantasy characters. I won't go as far to say that these are his best work (again, I like the Cornelius stuff better and I haven't read Mother London or the Pyat novels yet) but for lovers of fantasy it's basically essential (if you can find them, the White Wolf editions went out of print and apparently command a high price, they must have been rare . . . the British editions are still available, I think) and no matter what you think of his style it's clearly one of the more original concepts in a genre that feels fit to merely repeat the work of a certain hobbit-loving author over and over again. Moorcock stands on his own and to understand fantasy at all, these books are required reading.	2004-07-21
US	52986477	RI7647QV5VGQW	0060523867	783016934	The Confusion (The Baroque Cycle, Vol. 2)	Books	5	31	45	N	N	Better than Quicksilver, but the jury remains out	I think just as many people were bored with Quicksilver as excited by it and for those in the former catagory, I can only say that it does get better.  Many of those complaints centered around the impression that the book wasn't going anywhere, that the plot was sort of nebulous and static and most of the time it was just hordes of characters talking about things that nobody cared about.  Stephenson must have listened to his critics because a number of those problems have been fixed in this, the second volume of his enormous trilogy.  This novel, still gigantic but not as huge as the first volume, continues the stories already in progress, but Stephenson cleans up the pacing somewhat by dividing the story into two separate novels, but cutting back and forth between them, which fixes a huge problem I had with the first novel, namely that you had blocks of exciting, action oriented portions of the story and then when that was over it was nothing but talking heads until the end, without any break or suspense.  Breaking it up works so well that I don't why he didn't do it the first time out, since it creates a sense of tension by building cliffhangers into the story and by alternating the political manipulation stuff (Eliza's sections) with the adventurer/world traveller bits (Jack Shaftoe's) it makes the novel feel more integrated, a sense that it's all happening at the same time (sometimes it is, sometimes it isn't).  The novels also benefits from having a somewhat more coherent (ie straightforward) plot, in the first book everyone manipulated and schemed but it wasn't clear if it was going anywhere and the apparent lack of direction really hurt the story, making it seem flat and somewhat bland.  This time out everything is much sharper, there's a definite sense that all the plotting is actually building toward something, even if it still remains to be seen if we're going to build toward something grand or something abstract.  But at least all the talking and scheming has some payoffs this time out, even if those are varying quality, it's nice to see plots move forward, even if it's unclear how they impact whatever main plot is driving the book.  Also on a nice note, Stephenson has reduced the number of annoying footnotes, which were far more irritating than clever (again to authors: if no one likes when David Foster Wallace does it, we won't like it when you do it).  And I do give credit to Stephenson for scope and ambition, this is big novel that spans over a decent amount of time, with a huge cast of characters and a wide area of geography, touching on a variety of moods and situations.  I think Stephenson does a good job of putting the reader into the late 1600's with the characters and I can't really tell which people are historical and which are just made up (other than the obvious ones).  So it's a definite improvement over the first novel, but I don't see it as a &quot;great&quot; novel, it's entertaining in parts, but I really only care about some of the characters (Eliza, Jack, his brother, even the Sun King is pretty entertaining) and while the plot is stronger this time out, there's still a sense of &quot;so what?&quot; pervading the whole enterprise, everyone is running around and talking and whatnot, but it's not clear why any of this should interest us in the least (although Stephenson manages to pull off a handful of memorable moments, while the last book really had none, it was so even) and the rambling, digressive nature of the narrative really is a big hurdle, without thrilling moments or exciting prose to make the slog worthwhile.  I'll have to maintain that opinion that Stephenson's book is a fitfully entertaining diversion and not the historical-literary masterpiece some are clearly hoping for.  But it's too soon to give any final opinions on the work as a whole, with one book left to go it remains to be seen how he can tie this all up and what he can make of everything.  So while this was decent, and a bigstep up from Quicksilver, I think it's the last book that is going to decide everything and let us know if it was all worth it or not.  Here's hoping.step up from Quicksilver, I think it's the last book that is going to decide everything and let us know if it was all worth it or not.  Here's hoping.	2004-07-01
US	52986477	RJPAS2HUR0TOF	0380977427	727370009	Quicksilver (The Baroque Cycle, Vol. 1)	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Stephenson rediscovers ambition - with mixed results	It's interesting to see how Stephenson continues to parallel Thomas Pynchon's career, at least on the surface.  His first major novel &quot;Snow Crash&quot; was hailed as the cyberpunk equivilent to Pynchon's &quot;Vineland&quot; while &quot;Cryptonomicon&quot; was a giant novel set in WWII, not unlike &quot;Gravity's Rainbow&quot;.  And now here we are with a historical type drama crammed into three giant books.  And what was Pynchon's last novel?  Why, &quot;Mason &amp; Dixon&quot; of course.  I'm not saying that Stephenson is consciously trying to ape Pynchon and I think the similarities are mostly coincidence, hyped up by publishers who know that Pynchon's name carries literary weight and used by Stephenson's detractors to show the man as an inferior copy.  Both of those are largely inaccurate and it's best to look at Stephenson's work on its own, without dragging other works and authors into it.  That said, I'll give the man credit for ambition.  &quot;Cryptonomicon&quot;, for all its numerous faults, was a big, smart novel written at a time when people barely read, let alone read gigantic complex novels.  Now the author is using this novel to kick off a three book series set in pre-Revolutionary War times that I have a feeling will somehow function as a thematic prequel to &quot;Cryptonomicon&quot;.  It's a slight departure for Stephenson in that the SF/cyberpunk elements are almost totally absent, the closest the novel comes to SF is that one of the characters appears to be more than he actually is (his appearance in this novel explains a lot in &quot;Crytonomicon&quot;, it always annoyed me how he apparently died and then showed up again without any kind of explanation, it's good to see that there's some kind of plan at work) but even that isn't highlighted too much.  So we basically have a pure historical drama, once again featuring a huge cast of characters running around in any multitude of meandering plots.  Most of the characters are precursors of characters we've recently seen . . . the names Waterhouse and Shaftoe pop up quite often.  The plot of the book is rather hard to describe because it's not clear that there is one at this point, the main thrust of the novel seems to be how the characters affect current events and vice versa, and how everyone keeps tries to adjust and/or take advantage of the rapidly changing political climate.  To that end, the author bounces us all over the world, to the exploits of Daniel Waterhouse and his brilliant collegues (including the rather eccentric Isaac Newton) and to Jack Shaftoe and his more visceral adventures, including those with ex-slave Eliza.  Even though the novel is structured as three parts, the first featuring Waterhouse, the second Jack and Eliza, and the third just about everyone, he does manage to keep things moving by constantly shifting scenes and characters.  Also, his &quot;kitchen sink&quot; approach to writing, throwing in letters, diagrams, and whatever else he can think of does a lot toward bringing us into the past, and while it's not a slavish reproduction of olden times, it's researched enough that it feels authentic.  Yet meander the plot does, for all the jumping around it never feels like it's going anywhere important and often dovetails into digressions that never quite feel like they're ever going to connect to whatever main plot exists.  It's a little too talky at times as well, with arch and too-clever dialogue substituting for momentum and often acting as exposition.  And the half a million characters all bumping around, the important ones tend to get lost in the shuffle and we don't really get to feel like we know them (and there's really no scene or moment that made me go &quot;wow!&quot;), the most memorable is Jack (who is also the star of the novel's best and all too rare action scenes) and he vanishes for the last third of the novel anyway.  Stephenson does get bonus points for Eliza, however, probably the best female character he's ever created and someone who makes up for his lousy track record thus far on that account.  His prose has lost some of its &quot;hipper than thou&quot; cadences, finally, but he does tend to err on the side of being too wordy and it tends to not reflect any personality at all, just existing to move the story along.  So with all that said, it's really too difficult to fully judge this novel yet, since it's only one small part (technically one third) of a major supra-novel and as readers we should probably hold off final judgement until it's finished and we can see the full scope of Stephenson's intentions.  That doesn't mean you have to rush out and read it right now, wait until it's finished and then read it all the way through.  It's not a gripping, life-changing work, but it's entertaining enough in small doses and future novels may make it all worthwhile.  We just have to wait and see.er created and someone who makes up for his lousy track record thus far on that account.  His prose has lost some of its &quot;hipper than thou&quot; cadences, finally, but he does tend to err on the side of being too wordy and it tends to not reflect any personality at all, just existing to move the story along.  So with all that said, it's really too difficult to fully judge this novel yet, since it's only one small part (technically one third) of a major supra-novel and as readers we should probably hold off final judgement until it's finished and we can see the full scope of Stephenson's intentions.  That doesn't mean you have to rush out and read it right now, wait until it's finished and then read it all the way through.  It's not a gripping, life-changing work, but it's entertaining enough in small doses and future novels may make it all worthwhile.  We just have to wait and see.	2004-06-08
US	52986477	R3TDI6LTDJB189	0060512806	555229230	Cryptonomicon	Books	5	1	5	N	N	Typical Stephenson - just bigger	Neal Stephenson tends to write for smart people, ergo, smart people tend to like his work.  He writes in their language, the stuff of computers and math and physics and hackers and conspiracies and all that madness.  My friends all like Neal Stephenson, because he writes about the things that they like and does it in a reasonably entertaining way.  Me, I just can't get into it to any great degree.  See, I've always found Stephenson to be somewhat overrated, with all the written praise about him treating him like he's the Second Coming of Something.  Now I don't think this is his fault, he's only guilty of writing books that people seem to like . . . but I think the hype around him blows him way out of proportion.  Critics salivate over his novels like nobody writes big books anymore and the publisher acts like he's a genius of singular talent (which, to be fair, is their job to do) . . . but I just don't get it.  Cryptonomicon is the latest example of my lukewarm reaction to his work.  It reads well, it's entertaining, but at the end of the day it just doesn't move me the way great literature should.  In some respects, it seems like Stephenson is trying to parallel the career of semi-obscure author Thomas Pynchon, his earliest successful novel Snow Crash was repeated compared to Vineland and I've seen more than one review saying that this is his answer to Gravity's Rainbow.  But other than the fact that both books are somewhat erudite, set in WWII and written in the present tense, there really is no comparison.  Stephenson's novel has a relatively small cast of characters and focuses mostly on cryptology, while Pynchon's novel had a extremely large cast, tossed in everything from mathematics to pop culture and managed to maintain a palpable sense of paranoia that leaked even into the narration itself.  So comparing the two is unfair and to Stephenson's credit, I don't think he himself has tried to link the two.  So we should look at his novel on its own merits.  How does it stand up?  The biggest credit here is that he manages to write a nine hundred page novel that moves at a fairly even clip, there's no boring parts to make you want to put it down, the chapters are mostly short, the POV switches often and he does everything he can to keep you engaged.  The plot shifts between the present day and WWII, in the former, computer guy Randy Waterhouse is trying to get the funding and backing to create an offshore data center, independent from all governments, while in WWII his grandfather joins a super-secret intelligence department designed not only to break Axis codes but to convince the Axis that the codes haven't been broken (the most clever part of the novel, in my opinion).  In both eras the Waterhouses are joined by the Shaftoes, who run around like lunatics trying to help various goals get accomplished.  In the end there's stuff about hidden gold and lots of information about cryptology and the math behind it, which is more or less interesting.  The problem is, with me at least, is that Stephenson continues to be more style than substance.  His prose is breezy enough, though the present tense style strikes me as somewhat pretentious and the tone for some reason comes across as rather smug, as if he knows he's being hip and modern and wants to make sure you realize it too.  Occassionally he comes out with a bizarre and memorable metaphor and some passages attain some resonance (though over nine hundred pages it had to happen, even if by accident), but the prose just exists to move the story along.  Even worse is when he stops the narration entirely to delve into math equations . . . it's clear that he thinks he's being deep and clever, but it really just comes across as annoying.  The plot is interesting enough, though certainly not gripping and I'm not sure why it took nine hundred pages . . . it's actually fairly straightforward, certainly not the difficult, knotted novel it's proported to be.  It meanders a heck of a lotthough, and although the diversions are entertaining, they don't really lead anywhere.  The characters are typical Stephenson constructs, for once not completely oh so painfully hip as in the past, Randy is actually interesting in spurts and the male Shaftoes are fun in a uninhibited fashion, but Amy Shaftoe really doesn't do much except act tough and act as the object of Randy's lust (there's no real strong female characters in the novel, which may or may not bother you), but for the most part the characters just serve to move the plot along.  So in the end what you have is a reasonably entertaining page turner, certainly nowhere near the bonafide literary classic that someone (either the author or the publisher) is hoping for, but it has its moments and to be honest it's the best Stephenson book I've read so far.  And hey, it's well researched at least.  Fans will have already read this, everyone else expect a fairly good time but don't expect to have your mind blown.though, and although the diversions are entertaining, they don't really lead anywhere.  The characters are typical Stephenson constructs, for once not completely oh so painfully hip as in the past, Randy is actually interesting in spurts and the male Shaftoes are fun in a uninhibited fashion, but Amy Shaftoe really doesn't do much except act tough and act as the object of Randy's lust (there's no real strong female characters in the novel, which may or may not bother you), but for the most part the characters just serve to move the plot along.  So in the end what you have is a reasonably entertaining page turner, certainly nowhere near the bonafide literary classic that someone (either the author or the publisher) is hoping for, but it has its moments and to be honest it's the best Stephenson book I've read so far.  And hey, it's well researched at least.  Fans will have already read this, everyone else expect a fairly good time but don't expect to have your mind blown.	2004-05-25
US	52986477	R73ATN12KEP0R	0312864590	656525801	Crossroads of Twilight (The Wheel of Time, Book 10)	Books	5	18	41	N	N	Starting to deserve the backlash	It'd be interesting to take a poll and see how many people who are buying this series are still actively enjoying it and how many are just purchasing it through inertia, praying that each current book is the one that finally lays the series to rest.  I think Jordan has finally worn out everyone's patience, however, given that out of two thousand reviews he can only muster an average of one star I don't think that's a good sign.  But for the most part I don't think that's really unfair, my high rating is way out of whack but that's because I have weird star-awarding criteria and to be honest my lone five star review is barely going to make a dent in the deluge of one-star reviews.  And I really can't blame those people.  We were given a tiny morsel of hope in the last book (&quot;Winter's Heart&quot; for those just tuning in) that things might start happening again with Rand cleansing the male half of the Source, but instead we're treated to More of the Same in this volume, back to the wheel spinning that made books seven and eight so universally hated.  Back then, we all thought they were just weird blips in the series, now it seems that the glacial plotting is the norm.  Which isn't a huge deal, if something happened during the course of six hundred pages, but nothing really ever does, the characters fiddle about, talk about doing stuff, argue over doing stuff, hint at doing stuff, but never actually go out and do anything, so it's like everyone is caught in a flood of indecision and nothing really ever gets accomplished, or if the plot does move forward a baby step, it's washed away in the sea of static that makes up the rest of the book.  The other day I was in my local bookstore and I started paging through the first four volumes or so to remind myself of what had made me start reading the series to begin with.  And what's missing now is definitely a sense of urgency and mystery.  When the series started the Last Battle seemed just around the corner, everyone was running for their lives from the agents of the Dark One and it was rather exciting.  Now who knows when the Last Battle even is, the characters seem to be just killing time until they reach that point.  And as for mystery, remember in the beginning how new everything was, how Rand had no idea what was happening him or what anyone was talking about and how he tried to stay out of all of it because he didn't want to go mad?  I don't know if it's a case of familiarity breeding contempt but we've spent too much time with these characters, there's nothing new to discover about them so they just keep repeating the same mannerisms over and over again.  With the plot on auto-pilot (or on hold) there's no place left for the characters to grow.  When they make a decision it just seems arbitrary, just dictated by the aimless plot.  So what does this book have to offer the wary reader?  Unfortunately not too much . . . Jordan continues his style of decompressed storytelling, which means that conversations are spread across chapters and all sense of drama is lost.  It's like you're reading the book in real-time, experiencing everything with the characters, and not in a good way.  Things that should be important aren't even mentioned.  Rand's cleansing of the Source?  Not even brought up until two thirds of the way through and if there's any repurcussions from the event, it's nothing we can see.  Men channel the same as ever.  Remember how Faile was captured in the beginning of the last book . . . well she doesn't even appear and it's still not resolved by the end of this volume.  Jordan has to start beginning and ending plots in the same book, otherwise he just strings the reader along.  Each book used to have a specific set of plots that connected and advanced the main plot and made each individual volume a separate reading experience, now they just all blur together indistinctly.  Mat's sections threaten to bring back the absurd male/female issues that took over so many other sections of past books.  Everywhere you look there's something you can criticize until it stops becoming fun and starts becoming cruel.  Are there bright spots to the books . . . sure, Jordan is a good writer and there are some nice individual moments, but in the end it doesn't add up to much and certainly nothing memorable.  Perrin does the most memorable thing perhaps, but after the shock wears off, it becomes an issue of &quot;who cares?&quot;  What we as the readers are left with are four straight books where only one or two major things have happened, with the possibility that it might all be wrapped up in two more books somehow.  And considering how beautifully it started (go reread Eye of the World's prologue and tell me it doesn't want to make you keep reading) that's just sad.  Jordan has created a real world here, unfortunately it's become too much like our world, mundane in its routines (where did all the Dark One's minions go?) and certainly nothing that offers an escape.  And people have been saying these things for the last few books now, and I'm sure Mr Jordan has heard them, and nothing has changed.  Which either means he's doing this deliberately to stretch things out or he's just stopped caring.  Or maybe it's neither, but the fact remains that a series that I used to read out of compulsion has become merely habit, a world I check in on every few years to make sure it's still there.  And a lot of people don't even go that far anymore.  What's a reader to do?  Alas, the only thing I can recommend is wait until it finishes (whenever that is) and read the entire thing straight through.  Maybe it'll be worth it then, but right now, there's barely any reason to care.r sections of past books.  Everywhere you look there's something you can criticize until it stops becoming fun and starts becoming cruel.  Are there bright spots to the books . . . sure, Jordan is a good writer and there are some nice individual moments, but in the end it doesn't add up to much and certainly nothing memorable.  Perrin does the most memorable thing perhaps, but after the shock wears off, it becomes an issue of &quot;who cares?&quot;  What we as the readers are left with are four straight books where only one or two major things have happened, with the possibility that it might all be wrapped up in two more books somehow.  And considering how beautifully it started (go reread Eye of the World's prologue and tell me it doesn't want to make you keep reading) that's just sad.  Jordan has created a real world here, unfortunately it's become too much like our world, mundane in its routines (where did all the Dark One's minions go?) and certainly nothing that offers an escape.  And people have been saying these things for the last few books now, and I'm sure Mr Jordan has heard them, and nothing has changed.  Which either means he's doing this deliberately to stretch things out or he's just stopped caring.  Or maybe it's neither, but the fact remains that a series that I used to read out of compulsion has become merely habit, a world I check in on every few years to make sure it's still there.  And a lot of people don't even go that far anymore.  What's a reader to do?  Alas, the only thing I can recommend is wait until it finishes (whenever that is) and read the entire thing straight through.  Maybe it'll be worth it then, but right now, there's barely any reason to care.	2004-04-18
US	52986477	R2IWQBJ4X92UPB	0312864256	870089682	Winter's Heart (The Wheel of Time, Book 9)	Books	5	12	17	N	N	And lo! There shall come a direction!	It's amazing to see all these one and two star reviews still lingering around this late into the series . . . don't get me wrong I don't say that because I feel those folks don't have a point (they do) but I figured by now, this late in the game, Jordan would have whittled his fanbase down to the diehards.  It's a testament to the strength of the early books and the promise that people still see that so many are sticking around to see how it ends, whether it's from honest interest or just morbid curiousity.  Reviewing these books is a bit of an odd task these days because I'm mostly writing this to people who have already read the book and want to see if I hated or loved it as much as they did (or conversely, they've given up on the series and want to confirm they made the right decision).  Any potential new readers should take these reviews with a grain of salt . . . the series really is very good, but has some serious flaws which may or may not do it in by the time it finishes.  Best to wait until it's near the end and then read the whole thing straight through.  This novel, book nine in a series that maybe possibly might be a total of twelve books (so he says currently, only time will tell) and unfortunately this tends to follow the same pattern left by the previous couple of books . . . characters tread water for the bulk of the novel and then in the last chapter something important happens.  Really, if you were try to summarize the novel through events you'd really only be able to name the last chapter as crucial and after six hundred pages of epic fantasy, I think the reader needs more than that.  However, this novel bodes well for the closing sections of the series . . . for one thing, something does actually happen that will make a difference in later books, which is probably more than the last two novels combined.  Secondly, Mat returns to action after being totally ignored in the last novel . . . he doesn't do all that much but it's nice to have him back in the story itself . . . although that does come at the cost of losing Perin, who makes an appearance early on and then vanishes with nary a mention again (though to be honest, he's getting less and less interesting as the novel winds on).  Jordan remains as readable as ever, his penchant for over-description never bothers me so much since when I sense it's starting to overtake the narrative, I just start skimming . . . chapters really do fly by and I managed to finish the book in only a few hours of reading.  A bigger problem is that there are just too many stinkin' characters, cutting the glossary down to bare bones was a terrible idea since Jordan tends to keep exposition to a minimum and some chapters only feature supporting characters, most of whom are just people with funny names talking about stuff I don't understand (it's like visiting a foreign country only we're all speaking the same language) . . . I've found the solution to that, other than getting angry, is to simply go with it . . . the trick here is that very few of the supporting character subplots are really vital to the main story, it's just there to give the reader an idea of what's happening in the world and thus I just simply breeze through it without trying to understand and if it becomes important later by some odd chance, I'll just figure it out then.  This highlights yet another problem with the book though . . . the beyond glacial plotting.  Rand announces his main goal at the end of the prologue and then proceeds to putz around for the rest of the novel right up until the end.  It's the same with the other characters, they fiddle about and then as the novel starts to close stuff starts to happen as if the characters all realize they're running out of space.  The problem is that most people are reading because of the main narrative, of Rand getting ready to either save the world or crack it in two . . . and any chapter not dealing with Rand is mostly just taking up space and killing time, ensuring that any steps the plot takes are baby steps toward the end.  Awash in characters not doing anything too important, most readers just stop caring.  On the plus side, the male-female politics are toned down a bit to a more reasonable level (though Rand manages to achieve the ultimate male fantasy, it stretches credibility a bit, but hey he is the Dragon Reborn) so at least the characters aren't as annoying as they were threatening to become.  What the novel (and the series at this point) is missing, I think, is a sense of momentum, what made the early books so fascinating (besides the shock of the new) was that the End felt imminent, that the world was really racing toward the Final Battle and it could happen at any second and time was running out.  The series has sort of lost that \\"running for their lives\\" aspects of things and has traded it for a more leisurely pace, and yes this allows Jordan to stretch out and show a nice crosssection of a world in turmoil, but at the same time it sacrifices nearly all the drama from before.  Even the Forsaken no longer seem scary, once they were terrible and fearsome, now we're not even sure how many there are, and most of their appearances involve them sitting around talking about evil things they might do.  If there is anything that brings hope for future books, it's the final chapter, which should have served as a template for the rest of the novel, with a dozen things happening at once, with important things at stake . . . but even then the biggest action seems to happen off-panel and there's still a sense of momentum missing, I liked it but it still felt by the numbers to me.  So what's the verdict . . . readable but lacking that pressing sense of \\"I gotta know what happens next\\" . . . I bought this when it came out and haven't read it until now, simply because all the urgency is gone, I get to it when I get to it.  And while this means I don't get as agitated as some others do when it doesn't live up to my expectations, at the same time, it's clear that something is awry.  It's good, solid fantasy, but I really can't recommend people start it until the whole series is finished, lest they be trapped in limbo like the rest of us.nsuring that any steps the plot takes are baby steps toward the end.  Awash in characters not doing anything too important, most readers just stop caring.  On the plus side, the male-female politics are toned down a bit to a more reasonable level (though Rand manages to achieve the ultimate male fantasy, it stretches credibility a bit, but hey he is the Dragon Reborn) so at least the characters aren't as annoying as they were threatening to become.  What the novel (and the series at this point) is missing, I think, is a sense of momentum, what made the early books so fascinating (besides the shock of the new) was that the End felt imminent, that the world was really racing toward the Final Battle and it could happen at any second and time was running out.  The series has sort of lost that \\"running for their lives\\" aspects of things and has traded it for a more leisurely pace, and yes this allows Jordan to stretch out and show a nice crosssection of a world in turmoil, but at the same time it sacrifices nearly all the drama from before.  Even the Forsaken no longer seem scary, once they were terrible and fearsome, now we're not even sure how many there are, and most of their appearances involve them sitting around talking about evil things they might do.  If there is anything that brings hope for future books, it's the final chapter, which should have served as a template for the rest of the novel, with a dozen things happening at once, with important things at stake . . . but even then the biggest action seems to happen off-panel and there's still a sense of momentum missing, I liked it but it still felt by the numbers to me.  So what's the verdict . . . readable but lacking that pressing sense of \\"I gotta know what happens next\\" . . . I bought this when it came out and haven't read it until now, simply because all the urgency is gone, I get to it when I get to it.  And while this means I don't get as agitated as some others do when it doesn't live up to my expectations, at the same time, it's clear that something is awry.  It's good, solid fantasy, but I really can't recommend people start it until the whole series is finished, lest they be trapped in limbo like the rest of us.	2004-04-06
US	52986477	RRJOY85Q319KU	0812534980	416503371	Count Geiger's Blues	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Enemies of decency (and good comic books) beware	As an author, Michael Bishop is hard to classify.  His novels manage to attain that nebulous position between SF and fantasy, maintaining enough realism for the reader to truly believe that his novels could happen in the &quot;real world&quot;.  Most of the time his novels function on more than one level, telling both the story and conveying another layer of meaning above that . . . &quot;Brittle Innings&quot; was both a poignant look back at the golden days of baseball and a comment on what truly makes a monster.  In this book, things are a little farther out, but not by much.  In a fictional town, Xavier Thaxton writes for the Fine Arts section of the local newspaper.  His disdain for popular culture is unmatched and he takes every opportunity he can to slam &quot;low&quot; art and elevate the fine arts, opera and classical music and nice paintings and what not.  Then one day a bunch of things happen to him at once.  His nephew, a &quot;retro-punk&quot; whose hatred for fine art equals his uncle's dislike of pop culture, comes to live with him . . . and Xavier takes a dip in water tainted by radioactivity and finds that he can no longer stand the presence of fine art without being exposed to an equal amount of pop culture.  Eventually he finds that events are steering him to become that perfect embodiment of pop culture . . . the superhero.  Bishop wonderfully deconstructs the superhero concept, from his weird origin (with a perfectly realistic eventual outcome) to taking the idea of &quot;doing good&quot; to absurd extremes, as Xavier tries to get bars to show seminars on how to respect women, and in fact there's very little superheroesque action involved in the story itself so those purely interested in strangely dressed people beating each other up should go to their local store and find an Image comic (or watch wrestling, I guess).  Those wanted dense, rapid storytelling should look elsewhere too, or at least discover new reserves of patience . . . in comics there's a term called &quot;decompressed storytelling&quot; and that certainly applies here, Bishop takes his sweet time developing all of this and the concept of Xavier as superhero doesn't even appear until the book is half over.  This isn't a bad thing but there are points where you're wondering where this is all going.  The general tone of the book is satire and lightheartedness, definitely not in the &quot;grim and gritty&quot; Dark Knight Returns/Watchmen style of comics, although Bishop knows how to contrast utterly real moments  (like the fate of everyone else who gets exposed to the radiation) and he manages to ground the book in a tangible sense of reality and not make it seem like some weird cartoon.  Not all the characters really come across as three-dimensional, Xavier is really the only person to truly feel real, his girlfriend Bari is fun but never really comes alive and while his nephew &quot;the Mick&quot; has his moments, his annoying line of supercool hipper-than-thou speak reminds me of old Justice League comics with Snapper Carr.  Which is probably the point.  But Bishop manages to make this all somehow effortlessly entertaining, and you need to know nothing about superheroes to enjoy the book, just an appreciation that the line between &quot;high art&quot; and pop culture isn't as well defined as you might think.  And if the ending doesn't tear your heart out then you might as well be dead.  A book that will surprise you with its depth and well worth searching out.here's a term called &quot;decompressed storytelling&quot; and that certainly applies here, Bishop takes his sweet time developing all of this and the concept of Xavier as superhero doesn't even appear until the book is half over.  This isn't a bad thing but there are points where you're wondering where this is all going.  The general tone of the book is satire and lightheartedness, definitely not in the &quot;grim and gritty&quot; Dark Knight Returns/Watchmen style of comics, although Bishop knows how to contrast utterly real moments  (like the fate of everyone else who gets exposed to the radiation) and he manages to ground the book in a tangible sense of reality and not make it seem like some weird cartoon.  Not all the characters really come across as three-dimensional, Xavier is really the only person to truly feel real, his girlfriend Bari is fun but never really comes alive and while his nephew &quot;the Mick&quot; has his moments, his annoying line of supercool hipper-than-thou speak reminds me of old Justice League comics with Snapper Carr.  Which is probably the point.  But Bishop manages to make this all somehow effortlessly entertaining, and you need to know nothing about superheroes to enjoy the book, just an appreciation that the line between &quot;high art&quot; and pop culture isn't as well defined as you might think.  And if the ending doesn't tear your heart out then you might as well be dead.  A book that will surprise you with its depth and well worth searching out.	2004-03-30
US	52986477	R23JSB2GM7MZGI	0722178573	531214602	City (Sphere science fiction)	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Classic pastoral SF	Simak does not write pulse-pounding, viscerally riveting, edge of your seat novels.  Blood is rarely spilled in his books, blows are hardly struck, weapons are more often than not never seen.  But to be perfectly honest, you don't miss it, because his novels don't require such things.  Most of Simak's best work was written in the late fifties and sixties, when the Cold War was in full swing and everyone was afraid of being blowns to bits at any second.  Simak, in his wisdom, looked to the future and not just to ten years from now, but many thousands of years and he wrote to reassure us, and himself, that while things right not might be tense and it might be tense for our children and maybe even our grandchildren, in time it will all become better and lead to something grand.  &quot;City&quot; is probably the culmination of that ideal, telling a future history of not just mankind, but the earth itself and the creatures that in the end inherit it.  The novel is told as a series of short stories, all linked by a framing device where the current residents of the earth (intelligent dogs) debate whether these &quot;legends&quot; are truly real or simply the product of years of storytelling.  Each story brings the timeline further down and we see man begin to leave the cities, then the world itself and eventually leave it in the care of the dogs and the intelligent robots that were once their servants (among other beings).  Through it all Simak keeps a quiet, calm tone, which amazingly brings a sense of realism to a situation that could only be properly be described as fantastic.  SF in the fifties tended to be a bit on the &quot;goofy&quot; side of things so it's a credit to Simak that not only can he make this at all believable but that he manages to make it oddly evocative and poetic, as Man passes the torch to the dogs and sort of bows gracefully off the world, barely leaving any memories of themselves behind.  The result is a charming, thought-provoking Future History that relies more on quiet moments and the passing of time than on violence and bloodshed, while heralding back to the optimistic tendancies of older SF, a trait that has come back but with a more ironic slant to it.  This novel feels honest and Simak effortlessly conveys his hopes for the future through the pages.  Not in print anymore, but easily uncovered, it's worth seeking out for readers interested in the quiet, thinking type of SF that isn't quite as common as it used to be, and even back then, wasn't all that common.that relies more on quiet moments and the passing of time than on violence and bloodshed, while heralding back to the optimistic tendancies of older SF, a trait that has come back but with a more ironic slant to it.  This novel feels honest and Simak effortlessly conveys his hopes for the future through the pages.  Not in print anymore, but easily uncovered, it's worth seeking out for readers interested in the quiet, thinking type of SF that isn't quite as common as it used to be, and even back then, wasn't all that common.	2004-03-24
US	52986477	RWMHTT96NGAC0	0440158907	444227320	The Ophiuchi Hotline	Books	5	15	17	N	N	Bold explosion of ideas	The only other book I've read by Varley is the relatively recent Steel Beach, which I enjoyed quite a bit, especially the opening line, which I still remember fondly to this day (if you've read the book you'll know what I'm talking about, if not, crack the book open in a bookstore and you'll see what I mean).  The blueprint for a lot of the stuff in that novel can be found here, at least when it comes to Varley's worldview and his interpretation of SF.  He does a clever thing in this novel and puts forward a situation that has already happened long in the book's past, so that while it informs the character's present actions, the reader wasn't really there for it, it's part of history.  Here, the premise is that humanity has been kicked off Earth by the super-powerful Invaders, who apparently get along real well with dolphins and whatever lives inside Jupiter.  Humanity, with nowhere left to go, spreads throughout the solar system and tries to make do with the fact that the homeworld is off limits.  Over the years they've been getting all their information from something called the Hotline, a laser beam of information from an unknown source that they can only translate partially, but what they can figure out has made life interesting for everyone.  In this novel, the presentation is just as important as the plot and Varley pulls out all the stops to depict his wild future history, of a human culture adapted to the stars, where sex changes and physical changes are completely ordinary . . . for all the wacky stuff, he manages to make it feel real, not an easy thing to do.  The plot has to do with a man named Tweed trying to figure out how to get rid of the Invaders . . . to that end he gathers various people who have been kicked out of society and tries to use them . . . sometimes cloning them when things go slightly awry.  The issues of cloning and genetics are consistently impressive and well thought out, almost surreal in a sense, especially when it focuses on the slightly rebellious main character Lilo, who keeps getting cloned more often than she'd like.  Meanwhile just to make things more complicated, the Hotline seems to have sent along a phone bill, and no one is quite sure what that's supposed to mean.  This is a lot of story for such a slim book and Varley manages to pull it off with a lot of skill, although the ending is still rather abrupt and the plot seems to lose focus toward the end.  It can also be said that the idea of humanity playing third fiddle to just about everyone is sort of depressing and certainly not the most uplifting concept, but hey, life is like that sometimes.  Not everything comes up roses all the time.  His people soldier on anyway, determined to live their lives, even if in the cosmic scheme of things it's utterly pointless.  Not a crowd pleasing premise, but the images and ideas he puts forward are amazing, his future is just as fully realized and complex as the real world and you won't regret any of the time you invest in both finding this book (I think it's still out of print, but far from rare) and reading it.lightly rebellious main character Lilo, who keeps getting cloned more often than she'd like.  Meanwhile just to make things more complicated, the Hotline seems to have sent along a phone bill, and no one is quite sure what that's supposed to mean.  This is a lot of story for such a slim book and Varley manages to pull it off with a lot of skill, although the ending is still rather abrupt and the plot seems to lose focus toward the end.  It can also be said that the idea of humanity playing third fiddle to just about everyone is sort of depressing and certainly not the most uplifting concept, but hey, life is like that sometimes.  Not everything comes up roses all the time.  His people soldier on anyway, determined to live their lives, even if in the cosmic scheme of things it's utterly pointless.  Not a crowd pleasing premise, but the images and ideas he puts forward are amazing, his future is just as fully realized and complex as the real world and you won't regret any of the time you invest in both finding this book (I think it's still out of print, but far from rare) and reading it.	2004-03-16
US	52986477	R21JMJSB89LUY8	0606192808	84137361	The Martians	Books	5	32	34	N	N	A mixed bag, but some worthwhile stuff inside	On the odd chance that you've come here by accident, let me open up by saying that Kim Stanley Robinson's Mars trilogy (consisting of Red Mars, Green Mars and Blue Mars) remains one of the greatest SF epics of all time, managing to combine a grand scope with highly emotional storytelling and a riveting plot, as well as a overarching concern for environmental issues.  If you haven't read it, go out and buy all three books right now, because otherwise this book here will hold absolutely no interest for you at all.  After he finished the trilogy Robinson apparently had some leftover thoughts and supplementary material he thought worthy of publishing and so this book is a collection of short stories and other pieces all relating to that great trilogy.  The only thing is that a lot of this is hit and miss, with decent stories sitting next to somewhat useless pieces.  The biggest problem here is for people like me who read the Mars trilogy years ago (about seven years ago, I think) and a lot of the better stories make references to events that happened in the novels themselves.  And while this doesn't ruin the stories, the shorter stories lose some of their resonance because the reader doesn't grasp the whole context and people who have never read the novels will be totally lost.  But a good majority of the meatier stories stand up quite well on their own (I like the baseball one, the original &quot;Green Mars&quot; story was neat, and a lot of the viginettes involving Coyote was well done) and make for quick, enjoyable reads that take the reader back to the glories of the trilogy.  But a lot of the other stuff is just Robinson clearing out his notebook . . . a draft of the Martian constitution (followed by someone's notes on it), a brief piece with abstracts from Martian scientific journals, a long section with various poems of varying quality and a series of one or two page stories that just sort of sit there without really doing anything.  But, as I said, the best stuff here reminds us why we loved the original trilogy in the first place (and almost made me want to go back and read it again) and you can just skim past the so-so stuff and move on.  You may be doing more skimming than you might like, but there are some gems buried in here.  If anything deserved a buyer beware, this would probably be it . . . the best time to read this is right after you finish the original trilogy so that most of this makes sense and you can extend the marvelous glow of the novels just a little bit longer.  But for those looking for Robinson's best work, I'd go for the Orange County Trilogy and some of his other novels, that's where his genius really lies, while a book like this merely only shows you some aspects of it.  I got this as a bargain book and that's probably the price you want to pay for it, anything more and you're going to feel ripped off.  And I'll say this just one more time . . . go read the Mars trilogy!  I can't put it any clearer than that.f here reminds us why we loved the original trilogy in the first place (and almost made me want to go back and read it again) and you can just skim past the so-so stuff and move on.  You may be doing more skimming than you might like, but there are some gems buried in here.  If anything deserved a buyer beware, this would probably be it . . . the best time to read this is right after you finish the original trilogy so that most of this makes sense and you can extend the marvelous glow of the novels just a little bit longer.  But for those looking for Robinson's best work, I'd go for the Orange County Trilogy and some of his other novels, that's where his genius really lies, while a book like this merely only shows you some aspects of it.  I got this as a bargain book and that's probably the price you want to pay for it, anything more and you're going to feel ripped off.  And I'll say this just one more time . . . go read the Mars trilogy!  I can't put it any clearer than that.	2004-03-14
US	52986477	RICT19JQUUXYO	0385131380	712156151	Chorale	Books	5	10	10	N	N	Underappreciated	It should come as no surprise to me that I'm the only person so far who has reviewed this book, since in SF circles these days Barry Malzberg is fairly obscure and this novel doesn't have the benefit of winning the John W Campbell award like &quot;Beyond Apollo&quot; or whatever award &quot;Herovit's World&quot; won, to name two of his nominally more well known books.  Probably the only thing in print by this fellow is the current collection &quot;On a Planet Alien&quot; which is recommended just to get you started in wanting to find the really good stuff.  Speaking of &quot;good stuff&quot; does Chorale count as being part of said &quot;stuff&quot;.  I'd say so.  Malzberg's books are often marked by odd concepts that aren't clearly spelled out for the reader and often take a little bit of digging to figure out.  Also, he often uses unconventional techniques, quirky narration, off kilter time shifts, basically the opposite of your usual straightforward heroes with ray guns and spaceships SF, which may account for why he's so unread today.  This novel doesn't rank as his best, but it's certainly up there, taking a really original concept and running with it for all its worth, and using generous helpings of his dry, dark humor (a Malzberg trademark, &quot;Galaxies&quot; has to be one of the funniest &quot;serious&quot; books I've ever read).  In this story, a borderline madman named Kemper has postulated that time is sort of wobbly and only by having people recreate the lives of certain influential famous people, can history and the present survive.  That said, for whatever reason people take that advice to heart and after his death an institute is set up to recruit people to go back in time and basically live out the lives of famous people in history.  The main character is forced to relive the life of Beethoven, who wasn't a real cheerful guy to begin with.  To make it worse, he hates music, is tone deaf and is basically miserable, but he continues out of a sense of duty, following his instructions to make sure everything stays the same.  What follows is Malzberg's skewering of staid thought processes and the idea that everything has to stay the same, culminating in a revolution of sorts.  The point isn't explicit, but the novel is viciously funny in a dour sort of way, moving along in quick bursts of chapters as the character tries to figure out what the whole point of this is.  In the end, perhaps he finds a point, but whether it's the one you expect is for you to judge.  Like most of Malzberg's work it's easy enough to find used (his stuff sold decent back when it was in print, so there are plenty of copies floating around) and also like most of his work it's well worth investing your time and money to track it down and read.  He might be unjustly forgotten by most of the Star Wars-raised readership of today, but it doesn't have to be that way.duty, following his instructions to make sure everything stays the same.  What follows is Malzberg's skewering of staid thought processes and the idea that everything has to stay the same, culminating in a revolution of sorts.  The point isn't explicit, but the novel is viciously funny in a dour sort of way, moving along in quick bursts of chapters as the character tries to figure out what the whole point of this is.  In the end, perhaps he finds a point, but whether it's the one you expect is for you to judge.  Like most of Malzberg's work it's easy enough to find used (his stuff sold decent back when it was in print, so there are plenty of copies floating around) and also like most of his work it's well worth investing your time and money to track it down and read.  He might be unjustly forgotten by most of the Star Wars-raised readership of today, but it doesn't have to be that way.	2004-03-01
US	52986477	R2HIQ6JAXLA37B	0860000885	98476492	World Inside	Books	5	6	7	N	N	One of his finest	As more and more of Silverberg's books from his &quot;classic&quot; period in the seventies start coming back into print, we can only hope that some intelligent publisher brings this one back.  While still a concern to some people (depending on where you live) overpopulation was on everyone's mind in the seventies, as scientists started plotting the rate of human population grow and what it would all lead to.  Running with that, several noted SF authors took that thought to its logical conclusion and have given us a handful of brilliant books looking at an overcrowded, full to bursting world.  For the record, the other notables are John Brunner's Stand on Zanzibar, Harry Harrison's Make Room Make Room, and Thomas Disch's 334, all of which are highly recommended.  The one thing that tends to bind all of them is that the world is typically falling apart and close to breaking.  In Silverberg's novel, the problem has been basically solved and he goes for a different tactic, seeing what effects these changes have wrought.  In his future, overcrowding has been solved by building gigantic &quot;urbmons&quot; (urban modules, I think) that climb way into the sky, like six hundred floors jammed with apartments and people, repeating across the landscape over and over.  In the meantime, society has evolved to the point where more people are desired, where couples are encouraged to have children often and early.  Perhaps the most daring concept Silverberg shows is the practice of &quot;nightwalking&quot; where each night people would leave their room, go into another room and essentially sleep with someone else.  Floors are organized into loose cities and life just seems grand.  Instead of following one character across the entire novel, Silverberg picks a loose group of characters who are somewhat linked and bounces to each person from chapter to chapter.  Each character shows us a different aspect of this new world from the new traditions, to what people do to relax, and to how the authorities keep people in line.  In the process he raises chilling questions about people and choices and instead of judging this world he's created, he lays it out for the reader, basically saying &quot;Judge for yourself, it seems to work, but is it worth it?&quot;  His sharp, subtle prose reflects a quiet intensity that few SF books of the day could match, a hallmark of his classic novels and he says more and shows more in this brief novel than lesser authors could do with an entire epic.  One of the more insightful and gripping novels to come out of SF and dealing with the solution to overpopulation, it deserves to be widely read (and if they bring it back, might I recommend restoring the cool cover with the abstract blocky urbmon type shape on it).  If the others have made it, this has to be next.w the authorities keep people in line.  In the process he raises chilling questions about people and choices and instead of judging this world he's created, he lays it out for the reader, basically saying &quot;Judge for yourself, it seems to work, but is it worth it?&quot;  His sharp, subtle prose reflects a quiet intensity that few SF books of the day could match, a hallmark of his classic novels and he says more and shows more in this brief novel than lesser authors could do with an entire epic.  One of the more insightful and gripping novels to come out of SF and dealing with the solution to overpopulation, it deserves to be widely read (and if they bring it back, might I recommend restoring the cool cover with the abstract blocky urbmon type shape on it).  If the others have made it, this has to be next.	2004-02-22
US	52986477	R1KM90D7G1WOEC	0345395379	558638196	Slow River	Books	5	24	28	N	N	Don't let the "subgenre" label fool you	In SF, unlike its sister genre fantasy, there has been a history of dealing with issues of homosexuality in an unflinching, honest fashion (instead of fantasy's fey princes and twisted perverts) and while those issues have not really grasped mainstream SF, it's always been there, blatantly stated in Samuel Delany writings and others, lurking in Disch, in Ballard, from the sixties and seventies onward, incorporating sexuality matter of factly, almost explicitly so.  There have been subgenres, of course, as there are in any major genre, but for the most part it's not really shocking or scandalous to see homosexuality represented in SF.  And so awarding the Nebula to this novel both gladdens and confuses me.  Gladdens, because it is a fine, tightly constructed novel, exploring its characters with a depth normally reserved for such masters as Margaret Atwood (when it comes to charactization and studies, at least).  Confuses, because there is nothing really explicitly \\"groundbreaking\\" about it.  The plot, while entertaining and thought provoking, breaks no real new ground, either by busting down nonexistent barriers regarding homosexuality in SF or providing a mindwarping new way of looking at the artiface of Story.  The story itself, on the surface, is simple.  Lore, a children born into a ridiculously wealthy family is kidnapped and tormented.  Eventually she escapes and instead of going back to her family tries to live out among society, where she meets master scammer Scanner, among other people.  Eventually she tries to form her own identity, working as the lowest employee on the type of thing her own family patented.  The novel's structure is interesting, in that it jumps between Lore's childhood and her tightly sketched family (even the briefly glimpsed ones feel real, and even small moments resonate), then to her life with Scanner and then to the present day where she finally finishes the journey of finding herself.  The fact that Lore is a lesbian is treated astonishingly well, there is no cliched \\"coming out\\" moment, she begins the story as a lesbian and that is just the way things are.  People turned off by homosexuality probably should avoid this book, while I didn't find the scenes too explicit (certainly nowhere near pornographic, as some reviewers have tried to claim) and frankly they don't take up too many scenes in the novel itself, for some people, one scene may be one scene too many.  And those people are entitled to their opinions and shouldn't read things that make them unhappy or uncomfortable.  And this is a novel that deals with unpleasant things, and faces them boldly and obliquely, much like we do in real life.  Slow River is a good book, perhaps even a great book.  Does it deserve to stand up with past Nebula winners such as Dune or Ender's Game or A Time of Changes (and before you think that I'm biased toward SF written by white males, I thoroughly enjoyed Russ' The Female Man, so there) . . . I don't think so, but I also don't know what the competition was that year.  It doesn't really matter.  If the giant block letters proclaiming it to be a \\"Nebula Award Winner!\\" capture your attention enough to entice you to read the book, then that's all well and good.  For in the end it's a fine example of SF doing what it does best, reflecting our lives and taking real people and real emotions and putting them in a fantastic setting, so while the background may be unfamiliar, the rest isn't.nishingly well, there is no cliched \\"coming out\\" moment, she begins the story as a lesbian and that is just the way things are.  People turned off by homosexuality probably should avoid this book, while I didn't find the scenes too explicit (certainly nowhere near pornographic, as some reviewers have tried to claim) and frankly they don't take up too many scenes in the novel itself, for some people, one scene may be one scene too many.  And those people are entitled to their opinions and shouldn't read things that make them unhappy or uncomfortable.  And this is a novel that deals with unpleasant things, and faces them boldly and obliquely, much like we do in real life.  Slow River is a good book, perhaps even a great book.  Does it deserve to stand up with past Nebula winners such as Dune or Ender's Game or A Time of Changes (and before you think that I'm biased toward SF written by white males, I thoroughly enjoyed Russ' The Female Man, so there) . . . I don't think so, but I also don't know what the competition was that year.  It doesn't really matter.  If the giant block letters proclaiming it to be a \\"Nebula Award Winner!\\" capture your attention enough to entice you to read the book, then that's all well and good.  For in the end it's a fine example of SF doing what it does best, reflecting our lives and taking real people and real emotions and putting them in a fantastic setting, so while the background may be unfamiliar, the rest isn't.	2004-02-13
US	52986477	R3L75XZLNJVZVM	0375706712	368464953	Aye, and Gomorrah: And Other Stories	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Excellent fusion of art and emotion	Delany has always been one of SF most thoughtful writers and one of the least likely to simply settle for the genre's conventions.  He's an author who deserves to be considered with some of the finest literary minds working today, with the only difference being that he chooses to work within the confines of<br />SF or fantasy, somehow always tweaking it until it becomes distinctly his, while remaining recognizable as SF.  This is a collection of his short stories and contains most of the major ones as far as I know, certainly both Nebula award winning stories and other stuff, most of it published in the sixties and seventies.  The titles alone should tell you that this isn't your typical series of SF stories, containing such evocative titles as &quot;Driftglass&quot; or &quot;Time Considered as a Helix of Semi-Precious Stones&quot; or my personal favorite, &quot;We, in Some Strange Power's Employ, Move in a Rigorous Line&quot;.  The stories run the gamut from well told SF tales to more experimental stuff.  The best stories are the more famous ones, both &quot;Driftglass&quot; (about a future society where people are given gills to adapt to living under the sea) and &quot;Time Considered . . .&quot; (a future gangster type story) are stunningly evocative of their fictional future times, set apart by the depth of Delany's ideas and his stunning prose, his descriptions more often than not achieve a sort of magical realism and sometimes come closer to the more lyrical nature of poetry than anything else.  Generally most of the stories hit their targets in a bulleyes, you have the occassional tale (like the one with &quot;Blob&quot; in the title) that are just a bit too much on the experimental side to have much of an impact.  And yet there are others such as &quot;Dog in a Fisherman's Net&quot; that are basically timeless and work as pure story and take you to a place that may or may not have ever existed.  Even the stories such as &quot;The Star Pit&quot; that seem to be just pure SF at first eventually reveal themselves to be about something more.  Delany is not just interested in talking about spaceships and time travel and he merely uses SF or fantasy as a background to explore aspects of human nature that the tales lend themselves to.  Just about anything the man has ever written is worth reading and I think his novels are the best place to discover and fully explore his talents, this collection is a great way to get acquainted with some of his best work (and a few of these stories do rank up with his best) and enjoy SF/fantasy with a more thoughtful bent than usual, something more than just swords and spaceships and aliens and evil gods.  The writers of today aren't restricted to the cliches of their genres, even if they choose to stay within those confines.  Delany shows us what it's like to have no restrictions at all.e just pure SF at first eventually reveal themselves to be about something more.  Delany is not just interested in talking about spaceships and time travel and he merely uses SF or fantasy as a background to explore aspects of human nature that the tales lend themselves to.  Just about anything the man has ever written is worth reading and I think his novels are the best place to discover and fully explore his talents, this collection is a great way to get acquainted with some of his best work (and a few of these stories do rank up with his best) and enjoy SF/fantasy with a more thoughtful bent than usual, something more than just swords and spaceships and aliens and evil gods.  The writers of today aren't restricted to the cliches of their genres, even if they choose to stay within those confines.  Delany shows us what it's like to have no restrictions at all.	2004-01-26
US	52986477	R2W941CI8APCHB	0679732187	864447420	Absalom, Absalom! The Corrected Text	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Nearly impenetrable but rewarding in its own way	I like Faulkner and I like difficult books (partly because I can't resist the challenge, it certainly can't be to impress people because then in that case it would be a miserable failure) so in that sense this was definitely right up my alley.  My previous exposure to Faulkner's novels (Sound and the Fury, Light in August, As I Lay Dying) left me with enough of a sense of his style that I figured I could tackle just about anything he wrote.  This novel seriously tested that idea, although I enjoyed the novel immensely.  As usual, it's about the South, telling the story of Thomas Sutpen, a fellow who comes out of nowhere to build a great big mansion on a large plot of land that he basically steals and then proceeds to attempt to build some sort of legacy for himself, which in true tragic fashion he ends up sabotaging and destroying not only himself but the futures of his descendants as well.  Sounds straightforward?  Ha!  The story is seen through the eyes of Quentin Compton (last seen in the Sound and the Fury, I think) whose grandfather was present for most of Sutpen's antics.  Essentially the story is a series of monologues, really really really long monologues as various people recount Sutpen's history at various moments, some of which they were witness to and some they're just recounting.  Faulkner uses dialogue to brilliant effect, retelling events from a bunch of different perspectives but leaving the reader to figure out the motivations, although it does tend to ramble a lot, which helps it develop a rhythmic effect but also can be annoying when the same character basically restates the same bushel of sentences several times in the course of a few pages.  Everything is told out of order, but Faulkner obviously had a plan to what fit where since it builds to a sort of dramatic conclusion.  This is a novel where the reader has to do a lot of the work though, not only are the dots only laid out and not connected but because the story is told through other people, there's always the question of narrative reliability and how good peoples' memories are.  The writing tends to veer towards sharply toward the realm of sublety when recounting important events, a post-modernism trademark which means that unless you're one of the those truly rare careful readers or just an incredibly perceptive person you are going to miss stuff in this book almost guarenteed, while reading it you can almost hear a voice in your head cackling &quot;Ha, you aren't going to get this on the first try, buddy!&quot; . . . try reading the scene where Sutpen dies and tell me what you picked up on all of that on the first shot.  However the scene is marvelous and spine chilling in its pacing and description and I went back and read it a few times just to let it sink in.  There's also a timeline in the back for those who want to cheat, it definitely puts everything into perspective, but in the case of this book it's the execution that's important.  And yes, the ending is as gut wrenching as you've heard, one of the most memorable endings of any American novel ever.  I can't claim this as Faulkner's masterpiece, it's probably his best work from a technical standpoint (Sound and the Fury wasn't as integrated as this, although As I Lay Dying comes close) and its difficulty dilutes some of the initial emotional impact moreso than his other novels but if you have any interest in his work, this is one of his key novels., there's always the question of narrative reliability and how good peoples' memories are.  The writing tends to veer towards sharply toward the realm of sublety when recounting important events, a post-modernism trademark which means that unless you're one of the those truly rare careful readers or just an incredibly perceptive person you are going to miss stuff in this book almost guarenteed, while reading it you can almost hear a voice in your head cackling &quot;Ha, you aren't going to get this on the first try, buddy!&quot; . . . try reading the scene where Sutpen dies and tell me what you picked up on all of that on the first shot.  However the scene is marvelous and spine chilling in its pacing and description and I went back and read it a few times just to let it sink in.  There's also a timeline in the back for those who want to cheat, it definitely puts everything into perspective, but in the case of this book it's the execution that's important.  And yes, the ending is as gut wrenching as you've heard, one of the most memorable endings of any American novel ever.  I can't claim this as Faulkner's masterpiece, it's probably his best work from a technical standpoint (Sound and the Fury wasn't as integrated as this, although As I Lay Dying comes close) and its difficulty dilutes some of the initial emotional impact moreso than his other novels but if you have any interest in his work, this is one of his key novels.	2004-01-07
US	52986477	RI9SATT9H4NCC	0879979798	475852404	Armor (Daw science fiction)	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Underrated, but no masterpiece	As military type SF goes, this is actually pretty decent and actually shows the author putting some thought into the concept beyond \\"Let's have lots and lots of fight scenes alternating with people saying how terrible war is\\" that most military SF novels tend to lean toward.  Is it as good as Starship Troopers, the infamous Heinlein novel to which this is often unfairly compared?  No, Heinlein's novel not only had, well, Heinlein writing it, but it also had that whole \\"The army makes a man of you\\" idealogy going on that, even if you didn't agree with it, at least provided a memorable subtext.  This novel isn't execution with the same verve as Starship Troopers, but frankly, who cares?  It's still an entertaining and fascinating read in its own right, starting off as a really really bleak war novel, with some of the most existential writing I've ever seen in SF, as Felix the scout is dropped on a planet and survives attack after attack by bugs, er, I mean, \\"ants\\".  The action sequences aren't stunning but they're described with enough grit to resonate.  And just when you're holding this fairly large book and thinking, \\"My God, is this what the entire book is about\\" the plot suddenly shifts to a totally different set of characters and perspective (from third to first person) centered around former pirate Jack Crow (though his exploits are rather vaguely alluded to, frustratingly enough) on a distant colony as he helps some scientists (and tries to scam them too) try to figure out what the hell is up with this weird suit of armor they just found.  There's actually a point to this sudden shift, as jarring as it is, and it helps to keep the book moving.  The plot tends to get a little more predictable as you get toward the end and a lot of the intensity that sustained the early portions of the book are gone but if you've made it that far, sheer momentum alone will carry you through.  The author has some interesting things to say about the armor that we put around ourselves in our dealings with people, but that's not really the goal here, and he manages to tell an entertaining story about war that doesn't focus so much on the war as what it does to people.  It's no masterpiece, but it's not terrible either and certainly doesn't deserve to be savaged like it has been.  It may not change your life but it won't make you feel like you wasted your time either.  And sometimes that's all you want.es in our dealings with people, but that's not really the goal here, and he manages to tell an entertaining story about war that doesn't focus so much on the war as what it does to people.  It's no masterpiece, but it's not terrible either and certainly doesn't deserve to be savaged like it has been.  It may not change your life but it won't make you feel like you wasted your time either.  And sometimes that's all you want.	2003-12-27
US	52986477	R1VCNFA7PB62JK	0886770831	872602845	Cuckoo's Egg (Alliance-Union Universe)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Brilliant as usual	I've only read a few Cherryh novels but none have failed to impress me yet (including the amazing Cyteen, one of the best SF novels I've ever read), particularly how she manages to keep everything in a consistent universe (the Alliance-Union series, for those taking notes) while spinning off any number of stories about different people in different parts of the giant canvas she's constructed.  While I like overarcing plots and continuing stories just as much as the next guy, I love the possibilities of this setup, since any story could conceivably happen against this background, it's only really bordered by her imagination.  And what ideas she has.  Cherryh isn't a &quot;hard SF&quot; writer, and more often she deals with the fine details of characterization and interactions and the like, all of which to me resonate more on an emotional level than watching a writer go through the motions and prove some obscure law of physics with his plot.  Sometimes you want to learn and sometimes you want to be entertained.  In this book, we have the exact setup that the title suggests, a boy is raised on an alien world and realizes quite early on that he's not quite like anyone else who lives there.  The whys and hows are left until nearly the end, as Cherryh drips hints little by little, but it's the interactions that count for the most here, whether their between the boy, Haras and his &quot;father&quot; Dunn, or Dunn and the other people of his race, or Haras and others, the book sparkles, keeping it's own momentum even when it's just people standing around and talking.  Cherryh manages to craft an entire alien culture without requiring the reader to go read a separate sourcebook, giving us just enough details to fill in the blanks, making them not so alien that we can't relate to them but giving us a general sense of their &quot;alieness&quot; (along the lines of visiting an unfamiliar country with an utterly new culture).  The style of the book is notable as well, in keeping with the alien viewpoints, Cherryh affects a brilliant use of minimalism and stream of consciousness, driving the book along with short, to the point sentences, breaking it up with cascading series of phrases illustrating thoughts, giving the book a taut, lean feel that almost makes it feel like it's from another world.  In the end the plot is almost secondary, she immerses you in this new world and makes you care about these people who aren't us and in a genre where people try to be as weird as possible, this is something indeed.  One of her best book, although not as famous as the oft-mentioned Cyteen or Downbelow Station (also excellent reads), this is well worth checking out for fans of literate, well thought out SF, and remains an underappreciated and minor masterpiece of the genre.with the alien viewpoints, Cherryh affects a brilliant use of minimalism and stream of consciousness, driving the book along with short, to the point sentences, breaking it up with cascading series of phrases illustrating thoughts, giving the book a taut, lean feel that almost makes it feel like it's from another world.  In the end the plot is almost secondary, she immerses you in this new world and makes you care about these people who aren't us and in a genre where people try to be as weird as possible, this is something indeed.  One of her best book, although not as famous as the oft-mentioned Cyteen or Downbelow Station (also excellent reads), this is well worth checking out for fans of literate, well thought out SF, and remains an underappreciated and minor masterpiece of the genre.	2003-11-17
US	52986477	R1R02N5GW26BH1	0812589688	462677064	Candle	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Entertaining, but not much more	Out of the mainstream SF writers to emerge in the last ten or so years, John Barnes has stood out for a number of reasons, notably his consistent quality (especially given how prolific he seems), his excellent storytelling abilities and his interesting extrapolations of new ideas without getting so far &quot;out there&quot; that he loses the reader completely.  In a previous book &quot;Kalidoscope Century&quot;, Barnes gave us an overview of his near future history, including a look at the &quot;Meme Wars&quot; where basically intelligent computer programs used people as pawns to take over the planet (that's oversimpifying by a bit, actually).  In this novel Barnes takes us back to just after that time, where hunter Currie Curran lives with his wife in a world where the meme &quot;One True&quot; controls everyone through its program Resuna, adjusting thoughts and memories and emotions in order to make everyone more effective and happy.  Currie used to hunt &quot;cowboys&quot;, people who hadn't been &quot;turned&quot; by One True and lived independent lives on the edge of society.  There's one still left called Lobo and Currie goes out to hunt him one last time.  It doesn't go well and Currie ends up Lobo's prisoner with his link to One True missing and his copy of Resuna disconnected.  Here the story actually begins as Barnes tries to use this as a backdrop to explore the meaning of individuality and what it means in a wrecked society that needs repairing, as well as showcasing his imagination.  The problem mostly lies with the execution.  After the initial rather thrilling sequence of Currie remembering the first hunt against Lobo and then going out and getting the guy again, the book sort of loses all momentum and stops dead while the two fellows swap stories about what they were doing during the Meme Wars.  While Barnes can craft a good tale, these tales on the whole come off as rather static and it's hard to get any kind of suspense when you have two grown men drinking wine and sharing a bath in the name of male bonding.  Some action starts to get generated towards the end but the ending itself pretty much comes out of nowhere and seems way too warm and cuddly as well as far too forgiving of a lot of things that Barnes himself brought up.  All in all, somewhat disappointing given the premise, Barnes really doesn't make it as interesting as he could (as he's proved in the past) and that makes the book frustratingly uneven.  Fans will probably enjoy it to some extent, since it's not bad, just average, but newcomers would be wiser to start with some of his earlier novels and work down from there.drinking wine and sharing a bath in the name of male bonding.  Some action starts to get generated towards the end but the ending itself pretty much comes out of nowhere and seems way too warm and cuddly as well as far too forgiving of a lot of things that Barnes himself brought up.  All in all, somewhat disappointing given the premise, Barnes really doesn't make it as interesting as he could (as he's proved in the past) and that makes the book frustratingly uneven.  Fans will probably enjoy it to some extent, since it's not bad, just average, but newcomers would be wiser to start with some of his earlier novels and work down from there.	2003-11-10
US	52986477	RROEZY969OLQH	0881845515	958932805	Beyond Apollo	Books	5	6	8	N	N	Cutting, challenging SF	There's something deceptive in the way Barry Malzberg books are marketed.  Publishers seem unable to describe what the book is actually about and what they settle on seems to fall very wide of the mark.  Both with this book and \\"Galaxies\\", the descriptions on the back cover emphasize aspects of the book that are really insignificant in the story itself and give sort of a false impression of what the book is really about.  This even extends to the cover, which can be called \\"trippy\\" at the very least and seems to hint that enjoyment of the book involves a psychedelic experience.  It's not necessary to do these things, since Malzberg's books don't really need any extra selling, even if they are hard to classify.  This novel takes a fairly simple premise (men venturing into an unexplored planet) and uses it as a launching point to both belittle SF and the space program.  Two astronauts go out on a trip to Venus, only one comes back.  What happened to the other, the survivor will not say, nor will he say what happened on the planet itself.  Malzberg dodges the issue expertly, never letting on if the main character is crazy (and if he is, did he start out that way?) and it's impossible to say which of his narrative is true, if any.  The ultimate truth is elusive, a rarity in writing, where readers like everything to be spelled out.  Told in brief bursts of short chapters this is a book that reads quickly and like most of Malzberg's books there's not a wasted word, he makes his point and moves on, leaving the reader to figure out the rest.  Nor does he makes his comments in broad strokes, his criticisms are always incisive and focused and in a sense are still relevant today.  Absolutely unlike any of the SF of the day, it was a deserved winner of the John W Campbell award when it came out, that didn't help it remain in print and used is the way to go with this one even today.  But regardless of what the cover art looks like or what the stuff on the back cover tells you, this is one of his greatest novels and a fascinating example of thought-provoking SF in its own right.his is one of his greatest novels and a fascinating example of thought-provoking SF in its own right.	2003-10-22
US	52986477	R2EUSDCBQU8I5Q	067177753X	395571044	Herovit's World	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Scathing look at SF writers	This sure as heck isn't for the faint of heart, that's for certain.  Malzberg hasn't written too many novels lately that I know of, but back in the seventies he contributed a number of incisively and witty novels that both dissected and satirized SF.  Malzberg's hits the target with a frightening accuracy more often than not and at his best he's a cousin to Kurt Vonnegut, brutal and hilarious at the same time.  This novel tends to be more depressing than funny, but has its own rewards.  It tells the tale of Jonathan Herovit, a almost forty SF writer trying to finish his fifty-something novel about Surveyman Mack Miller, a career that has hijacked basically his entire life and doesn't pay all that well.  His marriage is a wreck, and the only pleasure he really seems to get are the one night stands with various gullible college co-eds he meets at the small conventions he attends.  From there, it goes downhill, until eventually his pseudonym Kirk Polland, shows up and says, why not give me a shot.  And there you go.  For the most part the novel isn't so much a SF book as much as a book about a failing SF writer and Malzberg uses the space to make several pointed comments about the field, the writers' lack of respect, the nearly inbred fan community, the all too easy settlement for crappy hackwork merely to pay the bills, all of it absolutely unrelenting.  This is not a novel for those that require even a little bit of cheer in their lives, because there are hardly any redeeming characters here, everyone is pathetic or malicious or just plain in their own fashion and watching Herovit's life crumble bit by bit somehow remains fascinating, even as you're wondering how much farther he can sink.  Even when the book starts to get trippy, as Herovit turns into his Pollald alter ego (or does he?), Malzberg keeps you reading, even as the twist changes nothing and it all heads right for the seemingly inevitable end.  This a bleak book full of black humor that probably isn't for everything and its view of the writing craft, especially when it comes to SF, is surprisingly brutal even for a field not exactly know for a great amount of self-respect.  But Malzberg pulls no punches and shatters all the illusions he can reach.  The novel is just long enough, any shorter and it might fail to make its point, any longer and the darkness might turn into tedium.  As extreme a criticism of SF as you'll find in fictional form, no wonder it's currently out of print.  Used copies are fairly easy to come by for cheap and if you want SF that's a little more challenging than rayguns and spaceships, it's a worthwhile investment of time and money.  If you're lucky you'll get the neat jacket cover that has a typewriter typing out an image of a man's face.  It's not the version I have, but it does look really neat.  I just wanted to point that out.  Recommended.everything and its view of the writing craft, especially when it comes to SF, is surprisingly brutal even for a field not exactly know for a great amount of self-respect.  But Malzberg pulls no punches and shatters all the illusions he can reach.  The novel is just long enough, any shorter and it might fail to make its point, any longer and the darkness might turn into tedium.  As extreme a criticism of SF as you'll find in fictional form, no wonder it's currently out of print.  Used copies are fairly easy to come by for cheap and if you want SF that's a little more challenging than rayguns and spaceships, it's a worthwhile investment of time and money.  If you're lucky you'll get the neat jacket cover that has a typewriter typing out an image of a man's face.  It's not the version I have, but it does look really neat.  I just wanted to point that out.  Recommended.	2003-10-20
US	52986477	R3JOPBVK5S3A2R	0575072180	374055218	The Masks of Time	Books	5	9	11	N	N	Brilliant, compact storytelling	Somebody out there finally wised up and started getting these novels back into print.  Back in the seventies Robert Silverberg wrote a string of novels that are simply unreal in their consistant high quality.  Not only did many of them tackle ideas that SF had merely toyed with or completely ignored but each was a distinct entity.  This one isn't as groundbreaking as some of the other, more famous ones (A Time of Changes or Dying Inside being probably the best known) but is an excellent read in its own right.  The concept here is blissfully simple and has been tackled dozens of times by other authors . . . a man claiming to be a visitor from the future lands in the present day (in this book 1999, the future when it was written).  The man, Vernan-19, states that he is here merely to look around and experience the sights, a team of scientists from a variety of disciplines assigned to escort him aren't so sure, but they can't prove it either way and that inability to prove becomes almost maddening.  Silverberg does a good job of twisting expectations around, the book isn't told from the POV of the future guy, but from one of the scientists, whose own work is in the physics of time travel, so Vernan is kept at arm's length.  In fact, the central question in the book, whether Vernan is indeed a man from the future or just a faker, is left up in the air, as well as its sister question, just what is his purpose for doing all this?  His impact on the world at large is shown in broad detail and for the most part his fictional 1999 feels a lot like ours.  The characters are drawn with his usual eye for details, even without seeing into their thoughts the reader gets a good sense of them.  What impresses most in this novel is Silverberg's economical style of storytelling, this is a brief book that presents its premise, extrapolates it to entertaining effect and then wraps up, leaving questions dangling in the air.  The prose is sharp and lean, with no needless flourishes of flowery sentences to muddle the story.  Once past a somewhat slow beginning, it moves at a good clip, never going too fast or lingering on one idea for too long.  In the end, the book really isn't about the man from the future, but the people he affects and changes and how they deal with it, and once changed, where they go from there.  Not the most attention grabbing of his novels, but excellent in its own quiet way and just as worthy as his other novels from this period.  Grab it if you see it.owery sentences to muddle the story.  Once past a somewhat slow beginning, it moves at a good clip, never going too fast or lingering on one idea for too long.  In the end, the book really isn't about the man from the future, but the people he affects and changes and how they deal with it, and once changed, where they go from there.  Not the most attention grabbing of his novels, but excellent in its own quiet way and just as worthy as his other novels from this period.  Grab it if you see it.	2003-10-19
US	52986477	RW1Q9RYJSAGJZ	0812515994	665505260	Other (Childe Cycle)	Books	5	11	11	N	N	A slight anti-climax, but readable	To the best of my knowledge, Dickson never followed this book up and thus never really completed the Childe Cycle, which is an incredibly disappointing thing because it was heading toward an ending of some sort.  However, I'm not sure if Dickson knew what kind of ending he was going to go with, since he totally stopped the series' momentum after the Chantry Guild (not the most exciting book to begin with) and started to backtrack and discuss the life of Bleys Ahern.  This book picks up where &quot;Young Bleys&quot; left off and parallels more or less The Final Encyclopedia.  Fortunately for the reader, Bleys is an interesting character in that he's supposed to be the villain but he's not truly evil, he has his own viewpoint which he intends on pursuing as far as he can take it.  So exploring his personality in greater detail was a smart idea to some extent but Dickson seems to be just treading water, keeping the story light on any sort of action and high on political manipulation.  The only problem is that with Bleys around it basically chucks all suspense out the window because he succeeds in everything he tries, once or twice in the story Dickson pulls out an &quot;aha-ha!&quot; moment but there's not exceptionally memorable that happens.  He introduces one interesting subplot where Bley's Uncle Henry, a decent warrior in his own right, decides to take along to save his nephew's soul from Satan.  This hints at a confrontation that never really occurs and the book is the worse for it.  Also, it was hinted in the Final Encyclopedia that something not so good happened to Bleys' brother Dahno, but nothing is noted about that either.  So instead the book just sort of chugs along in a connect the dots fashion, with Bleys moving from one planet to another, forming a plan and enacting it and then forming another plan somewhere else and doing the same.  The one honest to goodness action sequence drags, much like it did in The Chantry Guild, by going on for way too long until you're not sure what the point is anymore.  Otherwise it's all talk, talk, talk, more often than that expository in nature.  So while the book is readable and entertaining to some extent, this almost total lack of drama or suspense very much hamstrings the book and destroys whatever momentum it has, you keep turning the pages through essential inertia and not because of the burning need to see what happens next.  Worst of all, the book continues the annoying Dickson trend of simply ending with almost nothing resolved, doubly frustrating because Dickson never went further than this book with the Cycle.  In the end, people who want to read for pure enjoyment should stick with the first few books in the cycle, up to the Final Encyclopedia.  Those who want to see what kind of potential this series had should move on to the rest and wonder about what might have been.il you're not sure what the point is anymore.  Otherwise it's all talk, talk, talk, more often than that expository in nature.  So while the book is readable and entertaining to some extent, this almost total lack of drama or suspense very much hamstrings the book and destroys whatever momentum it has, you keep turning the pages through essential inertia and not because of the burning need to see what happens next.  Worst of all, the book continues the annoying Dickson trend of simply ending with almost nothing resolved, doubly frustrating because Dickson never went further than this book with the Cycle.  In the end, people who want to read for pure enjoyment should stick with the first few books in the cycle, up to the Final Encyclopedia.  Those who want to see what kind of potential this series had should move on to the rest and wonder about what might have been.	2003-10-14
US	52986477	R1G1RS8QXN7Q5Z	0812509471	962500673	Young Bleys (Childe Cycle)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Good but not terribly exciting	I have a feeling Dickson really had no idea how he was going to cap off his epic \\"Childe Cycle\\" and what conclusion to come to.  The last two books, The Final Encyclopedia and Chantry Guild, both end in what can politely be called an anticlimax, both leaving a sort of cliffhanger for the next book to deal with.  However, instead of wrapping it up after Chantry Guild, Dickson decided to focus on Hal's nemesis Bleys Ahern in the next novel (and the one after that) and show his more formative years.  In one sense, this was a good idea, since Bleys (and the Others) really came out of nowhere, showing up in the beginning of the Final Encyclopedia and then making various appearances throughout that and the next novel, without us ever really finding out much about him.  So this does strip away some of the mystery and gives us a look into what formed his main opposition to Hal, his view that humanity should retreat to Earth and regroup.  Dickson unfortunately makes both arguments fairly reasonable and so it really doesn't seem to matter much how wins, except that all the characters get fairly hysterical over the potential outcomes.  It hardly seems wrestling with the Universe over.  As for the novel itself, it helps fill in the gaps, shows more of Bleys' brother Dahno (who we only saw very briefly in the Final Encyclopedia) and how Bleys got control of the Others organization and used it to further his own plans.  This, alas, is where the lack of excitement comes in.  Like most of Dickson's characters, most things come very effortlessly to Bleys.  Since the prose is very readable and the story moves along fairly quickly you don't really notice it but it definitely takes out a lot of the drama of the book and gives you no real compelling reason to read further.  Bleys is faster and smarter and just heads and shoulders over everyone else, and so the book is just victory after victory.  Plus since you know he appears in the Final Encyclopedia intact, there's no real sense of \\"is he in danger?\\" because you know he lives.  The most dramatic moments come at the end, when Dickson reenacts the attempt to capture Hal at the beginning of the Final Encyclopedia, which didn't really go well.  That moment manages to capture the mystery and danger that highlighted that first appearance but it comes right at the end and most readers have seen it before anyway.  So in retrospect, it probably would have been better for Dickson to move ahead with the Cycle instead of stepping back (and for two entire novels, Other is a sequel to this book) but it makes for an entertaining, if not totally memorable experience, for those who are fans of the series.  For those who aren't, by all means, start elsewhere and work your way to this.  The true riches in this series lie earlier.is he in danger?\\" because you know he lives.  The most dramatic moments come at the end, when Dickson reenacts the attempt to capture Hal at the beginning of the Final Encyclopedia, which didn't really go well.  That moment manages to capture the mystery and danger that highlighted that first appearance but it comes right at the end and most readers have seen it before anyway.  So in retrospect, it probably would have been better for Dickson to move ahead with the Cycle instead of stepping back (and for two entire novels, Other is a sequel to this book) but it makes for an entertaining, if not totally memorable experience, for those who are fans of the series.  For those who aren't, by all means, start elsewhere and work your way to this.  The true riches in this series lie earlier.	2003-09-17
US	52986477	RY9C9F5LHHFDT	0441102662	684306945	The Chantry Guild (Childe Cycle)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Good continuation of cycle, but definitely flawed	Following up the Final Encyclopedia was no doubt a daunting task, especially with that book's massive impact on the Childe Cycle as a whole, finally giving the series a sense of direction and the ability to head toward a definite conclusion, as well as giving purpose to the previous books, which had sort of floated along in a shared Universe sort of fashion.  And yet Dickson had to follow it up to give the Final Encyclopedia any meaning, since the ending to that book was so anti-climatic that the words &quot;To Be Continued&quot; might have as well have been stamped there in giant letters.  So faithfully Dickson gives us this book, the title teasingly implying that this might be the long awaited conclusion, with its promises of tying in to the very beginning of the Cycle (the Chantry Guild was last seen in the first book in the series, Necromancer, and apparently gave rise to the Exotic Culture).  Instead, we get some furthering of the Cycle's themes but a lot of water-treading as well.  Hal's victory in the last book was not a complete one and he is finding himself stymied in his efforts to make a total breakthrough and use the Encyclopedia for its true purpose.  Amanda Morgan mentions that he should seek out a new incarnation of the Chantry Guild to find what he needs.  So Hal does.  That's pretty much it, which is pretty much the problem with this book, Dickson spends most of his time trying to do a lot with comparitively little.  Hal's quest to unlock the &quot;Creative Universe&quot; is sort of vague and the terms of his victory against Bleys becomes more and more muddled as the book goes on.  I'm not even sure how the Creative Universe will help him win, whatever it is.  The bulk of the novel is taken up on Kultis where Hal tries to learn from the Chantry Guild and this is where Dickson's pacing fails him . . . it's simply too long a section of the book.  Incidents that should take less than a chapter stretch out to multiple chapters, for no real reason.  The main problem (soldiers finding the Guild) has nothing to do with the overall quest and the characters spend too much time focusing on who is going to track down the wild child that is roaming around outside than, you know, saving the Universe.  Plus the sequence of attacking the soldiers' camp goes on way too long and features very little action.  Then Hal leaves and we never hear about the people there again, anyway.  Bleys puts in a token appearance simply to annoy Hal it seems and it all wraps up at the Encyclopedia.  Maybe.  Dickson's ending this time is perhaps more vague than the last book and just sort of leaves the reader hanging.  What is good about this book?  The supporting characters are well developed and Dickson's writing, when not mired in pseudo-philosophical meanderings, is an interesting as ever.  And the future history is as fascinating as ever.  But the sad thing is that way too important events happen to justify this book's length.  While the previous book had epic scope and status quo shaking events, this plot is too much point A to point B stuff.  However, it's readable and a crucial addition to the Cycle, which makes it essential if you've read this far.  Unfortunately I'm not sure Dickson ever brought the Cycle to a satisifying conclusion, the next two books are mostly focused on Bleys' early life and I'm not sure if those books further the story of Hal at all.  And without Dickson having now passed on for a few years, if the ending hasn't been published (or written) we're not about to see it.  So this is a step down from the previous book but still interesting in itself.  Just don't start here, by any means.main problem (soldiers finding the Guild) has nothing to do with the overall quest and the characters spend too much time focusing on who is going to track down the wild child that is roaming around outside than, you know, saving the Universe.  Plus the sequence of attacking the soldiers' camp goes on way too long and features very little action.  Then Hal leaves and we never hear about the people there again, anyway.  Bleys puts in a token appearance simply to annoy Hal it seems and it all wraps up at the Encyclopedia.  Maybe.  Dickson's ending this time is perhaps more vague than the last book and just sort of leaves the reader hanging.  What is good about this book?  The supporting characters are well developed and Dickson's writing, when not mired in pseudo-philosophical meanderings, is an interesting as ever.  And the future history is as fascinating as ever.  But the sad thing is that way too important events happen to justify this book's length.  While the previous book had epic scope and status quo shaking events, this plot is too much point A to point B stuff.  However, it's readable and a crucial addition to the Cycle, which makes it essential if you've read this far.  Unfortunately I'm not sure Dickson ever brought the Cycle to a satisifying conclusion, the next two books are mostly focused on Bleys' early life and I'm not sure if those books further the story of Hal at all.  And without Dickson having now passed on for a few years, if the ending hasn't been published (or written) we're not about to see it.  So this is a step down from the previous book but still interesting in itself.  Just don't start here, by any means.	2003-09-01
US	52986477	RNSGLFBAQN1Q1	0312861869	640081898	1: The Final Encyclopedia, Volume One of Two (Sf Series , Vol 1)	Books	5	15	15	N	N	Most satisifying book in the series yet	I do have to say that there's really no reason for this novel to be split into two somewhat pricy volumes . . . the original paperback was published in one large volume so it's not like it's impossible.  But whatever.  This is by far the largest volume in the Childe Cycle, for good reason, because it seems that mostly everything in the series has been leading up to this volume.  When last we left Donal Graeham had basically sorted out all the Cultures and brought some semblance to peace.  Now the story takes place quite a while later and things are rapidly falling apart.  Another quasi-Culture called the Others, led by Bleys Ahern, are taking over everything and threatening to thrust the entire human race into a period of stagnation from which it will never recover.  For some reason Bleys and company are searching for a young man named Hal Mayne, who was raised on Old Earth by people from all three major cultures.  When he finds he has to leave Earth suddenly, things start to get interesting.  Dickson really takes the time to stretch things out to epic length here and this is probably the most in depth look at the working of his little future history that we have seen yet.  By giving the series its first major challenge (and indeed it's a point he's been trying to make throughout the other books, just now he's putting a physical sense to it) he adds a sense of drama and reality to it.  All his skills here are at their peak . . . his characterizations are excellent (men and women, for once the latter are better than ciphers), his descriptions of the worlds are detailed and focused, his discussion of philosophy is more or less interesting and the story moves along quickly enough.  Some of his most evocative scenes are in here, especially when it echoes earlier scenes, such as the extended sequence when Hal visits the old Graeham house and sees the graves of all the old characters (Donal, Kensie, Ian, etc), all of which have died years and years before the book even started.  It really gives the reader a sense of the scope of the series.  Finally, the Final Encyclopedia, a minor thread that has been threatening to become a major part of the saga, takes center stage.  The book is probably longer than it needs to be, although as I mentioned Dickson does keep things moving and since it follows Hal throughout the plot probably isn't as complex as it could be.  Also the ending is a bit on the anti-climatic side, especially when you realize you've read over seven hundred pages to get to this point.  But this is a crucial part of the Cycle and makes me curious as to what will happen next.  The other books, hit or miss that they were, really were only prelude to this volume and it's nice to see Dickson's writing explode in what we see here, juggling all the characters and places and themes with the ease of a master.  Based on what I've read so far I'd place it above Heinlein's Future Histories but it's not as gripping as Asimov's Foundation, which was brilliant and effortless.  But this is pretty good too and SF fans should get acquainted with this near classic, which isn't spoken about as much as those other histories.  But it ranks up there, easily.arted.  It really gives the reader a sense of the scope of the series.  Finally, the Final Encyclopedia, a minor thread that has been threatening to become a major part of the saga, takes center stage.  The book is probably longer than it needs to be, although as I mentioned Dickson does keep things moving and since it follows Hal throughout the plot probably isn't as complex as it could be.  Also the ending is a bit on the anti-climatic side, especially when you realize you've read over seven hundred pages to get to this point.  But this is a crucial part of the Cycle and makes me curious as to what will happen next.  The other books, hit or miss that they were, really were only prelude to this volume and it's nice to see Dickson's writing explode in what we see here, juggling all the characters and places and themes with the ease of a master.  Based on what I've read so far I'd place it above Heinlein's Future Histories but it's not as gripping as Asimov's Foundation, which was brilliant and effortless.  But this is pretty good too and SF fans should get acquainted with this near classic, which isn't spoken about as much as those other histories.  But it ranks up there, easily.	2003-08-19
US	52986477	R3L4W6TZK95PK	0812504046	323192635	Lost Dorsai (Childe Cycle)	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Highly entertaining addition, but not required reading	Like &quot;The Spirit of Dorsai&quot; before, this volume fills in some elements of the overall Cycle and gives us some insight into some of the smaller details, but if you skip it you really won't be missing out on too much when you consider the overall picture.  Basically this is two stories, one fairly long and the other fairly short.  The first one &quot;Lost Dorsai&quot; is actually quite good, showing the flipside of the Dorsai philosophy, about a warrior who refuses to fight, but Dickson makes the interesting argument that being a Dorsai isn't a switch you can flip on and off and sometimes having to fight doesn't mean you need to use weapons.  It's one of the best written portions of the series and even if it has little bearing on the rest of the books, the book is worth the read just for that story.  Also, the tale finally delves into the relationship between the famous Graeme twins, Ian and Kensie.  In other reviews I've pointed out that Dickson almost milks the brother Ian to death, showing us how he suffered in the wake of his brother's death, without really showing us what he was like while Kensie was still alive.  Finally we get a story that not only has both of them alive but working together and while they are still kept at arm's length to some extent, it's a better look than we've had before and more than welcome.  I doubt they'll be anymore Ian/Kensie stories but this one was just about what I was looking for.  The other story in the book &quot;Warrior&quot; mostly showcases Ian (again, before his brother died, so while he's gloomy, he's not the epitome of death he would become later) going about his duty and dispensing some justice.  It's good insight into the way his mind works, although it relies too heavily on a lot of weird things happening and Ian going, &quot;Well I planned for all of that to happen&quot; which is a rather annoying Dorsai trait.  I do have to admit his plan is clever and shows some good insight into human psychology.  So while it's not essential at all, it's an entertaining way to spend a half hour or so (that's all it took me to read that story).  The illustrations that accompany the first story are also interesting, and help set the mood without literally depicting what's going on on the page.  My version also has a medium size essay by a SF critic that is mostly gushing praise (some of it deserved, though at points it gets a little much) but also makes an attempt to bring up themes and such in the Cycle that even Dickson might not have originally envisioned.  Oh, it also has an excerpt of &quot;The Final Encyclopedia&quot; but I'd rather just read the book itself.  So overall, like I said, it colors in some of the lines of the series and showcases those always entertaining Graeme twins, but as far as the main thrust of the book is concerned, it's not exactly essential.  That doesn't mean it isn't good (it is) but don't expect any major revelations or twists.  That's all.e it's not essential at all, it's an entertaining way to spend a half hour or so (that's all it took me to read that story).  The illustrations that accompany the first story are also interesting, and help set the mood without literally depicting what's going on on the page.  My version also has a medium size essay by a SF critic that is mostly gushing praise (some of it deserved, though at points it gets a little much) but also makes an attempt to bring up themes and such in the Cycle that even Dickson might not have originally envisioned.  Oh, it also has an excerpt of &quot;The Final Encyclopedia&quot; but I'd rather just read the book itself.  So overall, like I said, it colors in some of the lines of the series and showcases those always entertaining Graeme twins, but as far as the main thrust of the book is concerned, it's not exactly essential.  That doesn't mean it isn't good (it is) but don't expect any major revelations or twists.  That's all.	2003-07-22
US	52986477	R22BOYSBVHTZW6	0812504038	364247197	The Spirit of Dorsai (Dorsai/Childe Cycle)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Interesting supplement but not much more	The chronology I have places this book right after Dorsai proper but it really doesn't matter all that much.  The best reason to read it after Dorsai is because this might spoil some of the events that happened in that novel but at the same time once you know what happened, it takes something away from the stories in this book.  This is essentially two short stories with a framing sequence to give them context and they really aren't even that related.  The third Amanda Morgan first tells the story of the first Amanda Morgan and this is significant because it's probably the first time Dickson has written a female character in this series who does more than serve as window dressing for the male characters.  Amanda Morgan is old and stubborn and somewhat cranky but she's memorable either way.  The events of the story aren't as interesting as she is, since they deal with stuff that happened in Tactics of Mistake (how a planet full of old and crippled people beat all the soldiers who were invading while Cletus was otherwise occupied) and so you know already how it ends, although Dickson does tend to take his sweet time getting there and in the end I still feel like I missed something.  But Amanda Morgan stands out and Cletus was one of the better early characters so it was nice to revist that time in the series.  The second story reads fairly quickly and once again involves the Graeme twins Ian and Kelsie and how Ian deals with Kelsie's death.  This one I thought was well done but this is about the third time the series has dealt with Kelsie's murder and what Ian did in its wake (Soldier, Ask Not, Dorsai and now this book, for those keeping score) and since we never really got a good glimpse of Kelsie anyway . . . I would have liked to see more of the twins while both were still alive, since Dickson tells us all the time how much they complemented each other but Kelsie dies very early in every telling, or the twins are only seen from a distance.  But it was a nice distraction and not terrible.  The framing sequence probably could use more explanation as well, I assume it will make more sense when I read the Final Encyclopedia one of these days.  The illustrations are really nice, though, and many are very striking, not just showing the scenes that Dickson is describing but taking an abstract stance and really standing out.  I'm not sure if this is in print or not, but it can be bought used for like a dollar just about anywhere and if you're working your way through the Childe Cycle it makes an interesting, though not essential supplement to the whole thing.ction and not terrible.  The framing sequence probably could use more explanation as well, I assume it will make more sense when I read the Final Encyclopedia one of these days.  The illustrations are really nice, though, and many are very striking, not just showing the scenes that Dickson is describing but taking an abstract stance and really standing out.  I'm not sure if this is in print or not, but it can be bought used for like a dollar just about anywhere and if you're working your way through the Childe Cycle it makes an interesting, though not essential supplement to the whole thing.	2003-06-30
US	52986477	R2UB5F70QUIT18	0812503988	421453401	Dorsai (Childe Cycle)	Books	5	19	22	N	N	Good example of military SF	This is acclaimed as a masterpiece of military SF but there are better examples in my opinion (both Heinlein's Starship Troopers and Haldeman's Forever War are markedly better) since this really has little to do with the actual mechanics of the military and the gritty life of a soldier as much as how soldiers fit overall in Dickson's Childe Cycle.  At this point we're at book four in the cycle and really this seems to have the least to do with any of the other circulating themes (probably because it was written first and then revised retroactively to fit into what Dickson was building) since there's barely any mention of the Final Encyclopedia or the need to merge the Splinter Cultures.  However, there is some crossover from Soldier, Ask Not, so at least we get a sense that everyone lives in the same universe.  So we have to judge this one on its merit and honestly it's an entertaining novel, Dickson takes his now pretty much worked out universe and goes nuts by throwing Donal Graeme, a Dorsai who is slightly better than the average Dorsai, into the mix, letting him loose and causing all kinds of havok, the reason for which isn't of course clear until near the end.  If you're not a fan of Dickson to begin with, this won't change your mind, Donal is perhaps his strongest character but he's still only an inch away from being a cipher and like all of Dickson's other main character he's so good at everything that it just sucks all the suspense right away, the book is a great read, but don't expect any dramatic tension at all . . . alas, this also makes the book a poor cousin of Tactics of Mistake (the main character was his ancestor) which had the same basic setup, guy really good at intuition outthinks everyone else to a ridiculous degree.  On the plus side, we finally get to see a Scientist, even if he's not an average example, but at least they get a mention.  Dickson also maintains his inability to write convincing female characters, Anea is a step forward and a step backward, she's a strong, opinionated character, it's just that all her opinions are wrong and she spends most of the book making snide judgements about Donal that clearly make her look stupid . . . plus there's hints of romance that never quite seem to cohere.  All in all it's a satisfying read, albeit not one without flaws, it's a good example of pulp SF and Dickson's future history remains as fun as ever but it's not quite the masterpiece that many proclaim it to be.  Go in with that mindset and you should have no problem at all.p backward, she's a strong, opinionated character, it's just that all her opinions are wrong and she spends most of the book making snide judgements about Donal that clearly make her look stupid . . . plus there's hints of romance that never quite seem to cohere.  All in all it's a satisfying read, albeit not one without flaws, it's a good example of pulp SF and Dickson's future history remains as fun as ever but it's not quite the masterpiece that many proclaim it to be.  Go in with that mindset and you should have no problem at all.	2003-06-10
US	52986477	R10GVEH0U1USIQ	0812504003	824348646	Soldier, Ask Not: A Novel in The Childe Cycle (Tor Science Fiction)	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Getting better	The third (in theory) of the Childe Cycle books, this is the first one that feels like the series is heading anywhere, with more of the main concepts (the Splinter Cultures, the Final Encyclopedia) explained in more detail and finally a sense of direction starts to emerge.  This book concerns Tam Olyn, a Newsman who has an unfortunate experience with the Friendly culture (the ultra-religious people . . . though not for nothing, it would be nice for once to see a fanatical religion that isn't directly based on Christianity, it's becoming a bit of a cliche now and it would be nice to show a little bit of imagination) and basically vows to bring their entire culture down . . . not all of his manipulations make perfect sense to me frankly (a common thing with Dickson, either I'm missing the man's logic or it's just not well thought out) but it's the thought that counts and it's fun watching his plan almost come to fruition.  Tam Olyn is one of the more interesting characters to come down the pipeline but he's not as much fun as the guy from Tactics of Mistake (no sense of humor and a little too full of himself . . . Paul Formain might have been boring but at least he wasn't arrogant) but he almost makes up for it with sheer intensity and his unswerving focus provides a good amount of drive to the novel.  Sometimes the supporting characters are more interesting than he is though (ie Jamethon Black, although Lisa Kant and Eileen continue the trend of having female characters who, er, don't do anything) and the few Dorsai that show up clearly steal the show, making it obvious when Dickson's loyalities lie . . . what makes this book work isn't really the main plot so much as the deeper glimpse into this future history Dickson has going, while he does steal slightly from Asimov (\\"ontogenetics\\" = psychohistory last I checked)  the idea of humanity splitting into the distinct groups (and then eventually rejoining) plus the stuff like the Final Encyclopedia are all great concepts and I look forward to seeing more of them in the future books (one thing does bother me, why is no one ever mentions the Scientists, be a shame to leave them out) . . . this novel is entertaining in its own right but on it's own it's merely average . . . when placed in context with the rest of the books in the Cycle, it gains a little more importance.  Dickson can't write anything totally unreadable and this is clearly more interesting than the earlier books but it's not exactly a masterpiece . . . it has enough to make you keep reading and it goes by quickly.  You won't feel you wasted your time but you may not feel any desire to go back and read it again either.ts and I look forward to seeing more of them in the future books (one thing does bother me, why is no one ever mentions the Scientists, be a shame to leave them out) . . . this novel is entertaining in its own right but on it's own it's merely average . . . when placed in context with the rest of the books in the Cycle, it gains a little more importance.  Dickson can't write anything totally unreadable and this is clearly more interesting than the earlier books but it's not exactly a masterpiece . . . it has enough to make you keep reading and it goes by quickly.  You won't feel you wasted your time but you may not feel any desire to go back and read it again either.	2003-06-05
US	52986477	RCTWYW18K0EVT	0441799728	20897046	Tactics Of Mistake (Childe Cycle)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	The Cycle picks up speed	The apparent second book in the Childe Cycle (I've never seen a really definitive version of the order) is a notable improvement over Necromancer, which while interesting overall wasn't exactly engaging at times.  We shift ahead some years here and encounter humanity that has begun to splinter into several groups, most notably the Exotics, the Friendlys, and the warrior Dorsai.  Into this walks Cletus a slightly crippled military scholar who is writing a series of books on tactics and strategy and decides to prove just how right he can be.  What follows a series of battles where Cletus wins easily due to his better powers of manipulation and strategy, although in every instance nobody seems ready to believe things are the way he says they are.  Eventually he takes on the task of remolding the Dorsai into a more efficient fighting force, setting the stage for more fun stuff to come.  Like Paul Formain from the last book Cletus can be a bit insufferably in that he's always right which kind of sucks any dramatic tension from the novel since basically Cletus explains what is going to happen and then you get to watch as it turns out just as he said (though there's a nifty sequence that shows this from the other guy's perspective) but thanks to Dickson's talent he manages to make every sequence memorable and entertaining.  Also, it helps that unlike Formain, Cletus has a sense of humor and you find yourself rooting for him even as there's really no doubt.  What makes this book so exciting are the constant manipulations and manuverings, which can be hard to follow at times.  The charactization still suffers somewhat, Cletus is a little more developed than most but the only other major female character is a total cipher, existing only in the beginning to say \\"You're wrong! Whatever you say is wrong because . . . because it just is!\\" to which she looks silly every single time.  And yet from the first \\"I hate you!\\" you know where her heart belongs.  Their relationship never feels real and it's clear Dickson doesn't know what to do with it either, bringing her up only when convenient (Melissa's last line in the book however, is neat).  Fortunately it's not the heart of the book and the novel skips along nicely, laying out the varied Universe (far more interesting now than in the previous book) and intermingling philosophies.  We're still in the \\"ground laying\\" stage here but it stands well on its own and makes for fast, entertaining reading (I finished it while waiting at jury duty).  Not a classic, but an integral part of the cycle in its own right.eels real and it's clear Dickson doesn't know what to do with it either, bringing her up only when convenient (Melissa's last line in the book however, is neat).  Fortunately it's not the heart of the book and the novel skips along nicely, laying out the varied Universe (far more interesting now than in the previous book) and intermingling philosophies.  We're still in the \\"ground laying\\" stage here but it stands well on its own and makes for fast, entertaining reading (I finished it while waiting at jury duty).  Not a classic, but an integral part of the cycle in its own right.	2003-05-28
US	52986477	R126FHLDDLP146	0812545303	450247323	Necromancer (Childe Cycle)	Books	5	12	14	N	N	Necessary to get the Childe Cycle ball rolling	I have no idea what order the Childe Cycle (aka that series with Dorsai) was published in . . . I'm reading them in the order listed on the back of the Final Encyclopedia, which gives this as the first book and so off we go.  It's a slim, slight book with a seemingly straightforward plot that starts to go in all kinds of weird areas very quickly, almost too quickly.  Paul Formain is a guy with not so good luck who loses his arm and can't have it replaced because none of the grafts will take.  But some people tell him he has some ability with the &quot;Alternate Laws&quot; and so the Chantry Guild, led by Walter Blunt, decide to take him in and train them.  Little do they know what it leads to.  And neither does the reader, apparently.  Dickson is too good a writer to not make the book any less than interesting and readable but some of this stuff doesn't seem worked out too well, the Alternate Laws remain kind of a catch-all and after reading the book I still have absolutely no idea what they are supposed to do.  Other than Paul, none of the character have anything other than thin personalities (the lady, Kanteele is never developed at all and her at times strange behavior never really explained) and even Paul isn't that interesting since in grand SF hero tradition he mostly reacts to stuff and overcomes obstacles mostly because hey, why not?  A lot of stuff happens toward the end that basically serves as a prelude for everything that comes after, which is where this book becomes essential.  While if you skipped it, the rest of the Cycle probably makes perfect sense, this lays down the foundations and while not a spectacular book on its own, when fitted in with the rest of the series, it takes on a different resonance altogether.  Even with those flaws, Dickson keeps the story moving, his science may not be ready for a doctoral thesis but the philosophy is always interesting (a highlight in most of his books) and the result is never less than entertaining, even if it is far from a masterpiece.  Read this only to move on to the next books.is far from a masterpiece.  Read this only to move on to the next books.	2003-05-28
US	52986477	R14I64LMUEHBD9	0312858868	949121248	The Prestige	Books	5	59	64	N	N	Magical fun	This was a lot of fun but probably doesn't warrant repeated reading since it's pretty dependent on plot twists and shocks to hold your interest.  With most Christopher Priest novels currently out of print (Dream of Wessex, etc) it's nice to see this one still out there and it's one of his better novels too, which is a nice bonus.  Basically it concerns two magicians at the turn of the century who's paths cross and through a series of unpleasant events become bitter rivals, screwing up each other's tricks and driving each other to more and more complicated illusions in a magical game of oneupmanship.  This tale is told through two journals as read by their descendants, first one magician, than the other.  This style works pretty well, there are some quirks and it probably won't fool anyone who is a Victorian scholar but it looks good enough to me and it's not enough to make me hate the books.  What he does an excellent job of is getting us into the world of magicians, without turning the book into a tedious expose of how they do their tricks ('cause it's all about the illusion), you get a glimpse into a sort of exclusive club that's all about convincing you that you're seeing what you shouldn't be seeing.  The method of using both journals is a trick that required quite a bit of skill to pull off properly, since the order of the journals make a bit of difference in order to remain surprising and it's interesting to see two different versions of events, especially when one explains the other in greater detail (the only problem with that is that by the time you get to the concurrent event in the second journal, you might have forgotten what happened the first time around).  Some people might take some issue with the fact that it gets seriously weird toward the end, and being that the book mostly sticks to \\"real\\" stuff the way it starts to go toward fantasy might turn off some people . . . you'll have to read and decide that for yourself, unfortunately.  Also, I wasn't exactly sure what the point of the bookending modern day descendants was, they barely appear and Priest doesn't make too much of an effort to give them any sort of personality, which leaves the ending a little flatter than maybe it should be.  Still, this is a fine novel showing a lot of imagination and skill, and those looking for fantasy without elves and swords should take a sharp detour here.  Even with its flaws, it's highly readable and very recommended.exactly sure what the point of the bookending modern day descendants was, they barely appear and Priest doesn't make too much of an effort to give them any sort of personality, which leaves the ending a little flatter than maybe it should be.  Still, this is a fine novel showing a lot of imagination and skill, and those looking for fantasy without elves and swords should take a sharp detour here.  Even with its flaws, it's highly readable and very recommended.	2003-05-19
US	52986477	R3D63ZAAL6V42G	0441235018	297474790	The Fifth Head Cerberus	Books	5	52	59	N	N	Excellent, but where are the Cliffs Notes?	Out of the many, many fine books Gene Wolfe has done, this is probably considered his greatest single novel (as opposed to the Long Sun, Short Sun, etc series, all of which deserve their critical acclaim) due to its richness and complexity.  People looking for an easy way to break into Wolfe's writing won't find it in this book, he piles on the head hurtin' stuff pretty early and it doesn't let up, adding layer upon layer of meaning and detail to the point where the reader cannot ignore it, you have to spend time actively interepreting the novel or reading it becomes a wasted effort.  Such is the genius of Wolfe and of not taking the easy way out.  The novel actually consists of three fairly separate novellas and while Wolfe could have devised some vague basic linkage and taken three novellas and dumped this arbitrary linkage over them and been done with it, he goes way further than that.  The novellas are all different, but they're also all connected in some way, either through offhand scenes or subtle clues or overarching themes or perhaps all of that and more.  There's a reason for nearly everything done in the book, from the placement of the novellas to the order of events happening in each section, heck, even the titles are chosen for specific reasons that resonate within the structure as a whole.  The first novella sets the scene, a pair of sister planets orbiting each other, colonized by man, and rumored to have once been home to a race of shapeshifters who may have been so good at shapeshifting that they took humanity's place and then promptly forgot they did (the &quot;copy is not the original, or is it?&quot; argument), one of the ideas explored throughout the novel is this question of identity, whether the human race has really been replaced and if so, do the new people count as humans since they're like them in every way.  And would anyone even notice?  This is not typical SF stuff and it's not told in a typical SF way, for every nuance that I &quot;got&quot; I'm sure a hundred more went over my head, this is a book that demands rereading and is so far from the &quot;So, Zolgar, we meet again&quot; type of SF that fans of literate, intelligent novels will want to jump up and cheer.  For all the literary tricks in the novel, it never comes off as pretentious, Wolfe is exploring real themes with real resonance and it all works with the scheme of the novel, none of it can be confused with arty indulgence.  Still kind of in print (most bookstores seem to carry at least one copy) it's an excellent introduction to Wolfe, since the longer series can be a bit overwhelming, but again, don't think you're getting off easy.  Smaller doesn't mean simpler and shorter doesn't mean less work is involved.  People who demand a little more effort from their book and want more than simple entertainment, regardless of genre, should give this a look.quot; I'm sure a hundred more went over my head, this is a book that demands rereading and is so far from the &quot;So, Zolgar, we meet again&quot; type of SF that fans of literate, intelligent novels will want to jump up and cheer.  For all the literary tricks in the novel, it never comes off as pretentious, Wolfe is exploring real themes with real resonance and it all works with the scheme of the novel, none of it can be confused with arty indulgence.  Still kind of in print (most bookstores seem to carry at least one copy) it's an excellent introduction to Wolfe, since the longer series can be a bit overwhelming, but again, don't think you're getting off easy.  Smaller doesn't mean simpler and shorter doesn't mean less work is involved.  People who demand a little more effort from their book and want more than simple entertainment, regardless of genre, should give this a look.	2003-05-09
US	52986477	R1SZS7DKR1AQ2T	0684855364	181423734	A SONG OF STONE: A Novel	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Well written but unrelentingly dark	Iain Banks' novels are generally not full of bright happy sunshine and singing children (Consider Phelbas has to be the most depressing SF novel I've ever read) but even in the darkest stories there are islands of humors, snatches of dialogue that make you laugh out loud or absurdist situations that can't fail to bring a chuckle to your face.  This novel has none of those things.  It's just grimness personified, with the tone set right at the beginning and only going downhill from there.  It takes place in some unspecified country at an unspecified time during a war for an unspecified cause.  Two young lovers, a lord and lady of a castle, try to escape the country.  Not too far out, they are captured by a band of soldiers led by a nameless lieutenant, who makes them go back to the castle.  The jacket of the book makes it seem more plot centered than it actually is, from that point the book is nearly episodic in nature, with more examples of war and desolation and human darkness, finally ending really in the only way it can.  There is absolutely nothing uplifting in this book, even the narrator (the young lord) is decadent and selfish and self-absorbed, and nobody else makes out much better.  But for all the bad stuff going on in here, nothing is truly shocking, especially if you've read his other books . . . there are hints of weird relationships, acts of human brutality that in these days of access to world-wide news should be nothing surprising (the most brutal thing I saw was towards the end and involved a mill, frankly, I thought it was well done, really) . . . fortunately that's not really the point, at least as far as I can tell.  What works the best here is Banks' writing, which is more fluid and poetic than of us books so far, rich in description and metaphor, yet it rarely becomes bogged down and wordy.  It's a different style than he's used so far and it works brilliantly, giving the novel a dense and almost clastrophobic sense to it.  In the end, though I'm not sure what you're left with . . . events escalate and go downhill, bad stuff happens and it all comes to a conclusion that you may or may not agree with.  I didn't think it was bad as many others on the board, it was highly readable and once you get used to the dark tone it's really not that big a deal, and the prose is beyond excellent.  However it shouldn't be anyone's first Banks book, or you're going to think he's this depressing writer out to shock people.  I'm pretty sure there's a deeper message to this book somewhere but at some point it gets lost.  So what you're left with is a well written very realistic novel that definitely won't give you a warm and fuzzy feeling when you're done.  If you can stomach that (even the violence isn't that graphic) then you shouldn't have any problems.  But he's done better, for sure.  But you can't hit them all out of the park.  Better luck next time.'m not sure what you're left with . . . events escalate and go downhill, bad stuff happens and it all comes to a conclusion that you may or may not agree with.  I didn't think it was bad as many others on the board, it was highly readable and once you get used to the dark tone it's really not that big a deal, and the prose is beyond excellent.  However it shouldn't be anyone's first Banks book, or you're going to think he's this depressing writer out to shock people.  I'm pretty sure there's a deeper message to this book somewhere but at some point it gets lost.  So what you're left with is a well written very realistic novel that definitely won't give you a warm and fuzzy feeling when you're done.  If you can stomach that (even the violence isn't that graphic) then you shouldn't have any problems.  But he's done better, for sure.  But you can't hit them all out of the park.  Better luck next time.	2003-05-03
US	52986477	R3HYLPLCXWIIQB	0684853159	2967327	The WASP FACTORY: A NOVEL	Books	5	3	6	N	N	Attention grabbing debut	Apparently when this was published it was reviled as much as it was lauded, with detractors pointing out the scenes of mutilation and violence above all.  To be honest I didn't see what was so contraversial about the novel, there's a good amount of brutal stuff in it and some of that is depicted in a fairly detailed fashion but it's nothing overly horrifying and unless all you've read are Little House on the Prairie books, you won't find anything too stomach churning.  Perhaps it was more shocking in 1984 but after nearly twenty years of authors in all genres pushing the envelope it just isn't that shocking anymore, if it ever was.  The worst thing in my opinion was the incident that triggered Eric's madness and even that was well done, it made me feel sick but it made the character feel sick as well, which was the point.  So Banks first appeared with this novel, introducing a new voice onto the literary scene and arriving with a decidedly different subject for a novel, the main character Frances is two steps on the wrong side of being a psychopath and the book is narrated by him, adding to the fun.  And yet Banks never goes for the easy route and make him a raving lunatic, nor does he make him an overly erudite Hannibal Lecter type either, he's a normal kid who happens to have killed a few people and has a very, very twisted worldview.  Banks' imagination here, which would perhaps emerge more with his SF novels, is in full force, with references to Bomb Circles, Sacrifice Poles, and of course the Wasp Factory, all of which play big parts in Frances' life.  The writing itself borders on brilliant, getting the reader into Frances' head and even making you like the guy just a little bit by the end.  Even the violence, while brutal, is mostly played for dark humor, it's both absurd and shockingly realistic at the same time, adding a surreal edge to the book.  What the book fails on is the plot, which rambles a bit and comes across as unfocused . . . leaving the reader to ask what the point of the book is.  Stuff happens, Frances goes about his life, we learn about him and his family . . . and yet the climax of the book is a bit of letdown and the big revelation is perhaps slightly surprising but at the same time a bit irrelevant, I had to ask myself \\"Who cares?\\" when I found out the big secret.  So what the book succeeds with is atmosphere and tone, Banks gets us inside the mind of a person who isn't all that normal and does so in a believable fashion, not an easy trick to do and certainly notable in a first novel.  It may not be one of the top 100 novels of the century (as the Independent claims) but I would rank it as one of the top 50 debuts and fortunately Banks didn't fade from view as so many promising authors do after a decent first novel, but continued to publish and get better by leaps and bounds.  You may not like this, but I can guarentee he's written something else you'd like.  A good start for him, though, and certainly tons better than a lot of other debuts.  He could have done worse.to ask what the point of the book is.  Stuff happens, Frances goes about his life, we learn about him and his family . . . and yet the climax of the book is a bit of letdown and the big revelation is perhaps slightly surprising but at the same time a bit irrelevant, I had to ask myself \\"Who cares?\\" when I found out the big secret.  So what the book succeeds with is atmosphere and tone, Banks gets us inside the mind of a person who isn't all that normal and does so in a believable fashion, not an easy trick to do and certainly notable in a first novel.  It may not be one of the top 100 novels of the century (as the Independent claims) but I would rank it as one of the top 50 debuts and fortunately Banks didn't fade from view as so many promising authors do after a decent first novel, but continued to publish and get better by leaps and bounds.  You may not like this, but I can guarentee he's written something else you'd like.  A good start for him, though, and certainly tons better than a lot of other debuts.  He could have done worse.	2003-04-24
US	52986477	R1WPVIOR62EI86	0349103232	737562840	The Crow Road	Books	5	31	31	N	N	Good shot at being his best	While I won't go so far as calling this his masterpiece (mostly because he's still fairly young and his real masterpiece is still lurking within him somewhere) this is probably his most consistently enjoyable and amazing book and the best one to thrust upon family and friends saying, \\"See?  See?  He is a genius.\\"  All of Banks' novels (yes, even Canal Dreams) have something to offer the reader, but previous (and future) novels all were quirky in one way or another and while his writing and plotting was so good it didn't matter, sometimes it felt like the oddness was masking what he really wanted to say.  Not so in this book.  He focuses on the people of Scotland, specifically the McHoan family and peripherally the Watt and Urvill families, all with different social and financial backgrounds, all with family members as different as the people you know.  His characterizations are amazing, about a third of the book is told in a third person perspective while the rest is told by middle son Prentice . . . yet every character feels absolutely real, even the people who only show up for a few pages.  All have different ideals and beliefs and ways of living and the fun is watching all that clash.  The first third of the book might turn some folks off at first as Banks takes his time setting the background, shifting backwards and forwards in time and showing the main two generations of the family at different stages on their lives.  Once you get used to it, it's not that difficult to figure out who is what and what period of time you're looking at, and he does a brilliant job at making the sections echo and inform each other, so even though they're out of sequence they feel like they're in sequence.  For me, these sections make the book, as he details some of the magic of growing up in Scotland as a young lad, and an excellent job of showing one generation growing older and doing its best to make way for the incoming crew, and so on.  His people and their relationships feel real and I wonder how much of this was taken from Banks' own life, but honestly it really doesn't matter.  Maybe he made it all up.  Who cares?  It takes up a huge chunk of the novel but it's so well done I don't think I could stomach removing any of it.  There's also a central mystery to the book and the later portions of the novel deal with it specifically, and that's where all the little bits and hints he dropped in the early scenes comes into play.  But in the end it doesn't even really matter, and the mystery itself never overtakes the story of people and their families just living.  This novel works on almost every level, on a literary, emotional, symbolic level, he crams everything he can into it (since it is basically about life) and all of it works beautifully.  It makes for almost compulsive reading and the characters go beyond resonating into almost becoming real, so that when any of them die, it feels like a real loss, but the book merely mourns and moves on, because in the end that's all anyone can do.  I also like how the book leaves questions unanswered for the reader to ponder, just like in real life when not everything ties up as neatly as we'd like.  In case you haven't figured it out from my heaps of praise, this is probably my favorite \\"regular\\" Banks novel (Use of Weapons is the best Iain M Banks book) and comes with the highest recommendation, it's like nothing else he had done and yet it's undeniably his work.  It gives me great hope that when he does come out with his absolute masterpiece, it's going to be truly amazing indeed.  But for now, we have this.eal and I wonder how much of this was taken from Banks' own life, but honestly it really doesn't matter.  Maybe he made it all up.  Who cares?  It takes up a huge chunk of the novel but it's so well done I don't think I could stomach removing any of it.  There's also a central mystery to the book and the later portions of the novel deal with it specifically, and that's where all the little bits and hints he dropped in the early scenes comes into play.  But in the end it doesn't even really matter, and the mystery itself never overtakes the story of people and their families just living.  This novel works on almost every level, on a literary, emotional, symbolic level, he crams everything he can into it (since it is basically about life) and all of it works beautifully.  It makes for almost compulsive reading and the characters go beyond resonating into almost becoming real, so that when any of them die, it feels like a real loss, but the book merely mourns and moves on, because in the end that's all anyone can do.  I also like how the book leaves questions unanswered for the reader to ponder, just like in real life when not everything ties up as neatly as we'd like.  In case you haven't figured it out from my heaps of praise, this is probably my favorite \\"regular\\" Banks novel (Use of Weapons is the best Iain M Banks book) and comes with the highest recommendation, it's like nothing else he had done and yet it's undeniably his work.  It gives me great hope that when he does come out with his absolute masterpiece, it's going to be truly amazing indeed.  But for now, we have this.	2003-04-18
US	52986477	RZ2694D9GZI0I	0349107688	797600442	Whit	Books	5	12	12	N	N	Quietly excellent	Apparently this isn't one of his more popular books, for reasons I can only speculate . . . in his other wildly criticized work (Canal Dreams) it's fairly obvious what the problems are and your tolerance for those problems is what will make or break the book . . . here any problems aren't quite clear and frankly I don't see any.  The book isn't as \\"shocking\\" as other Banks book have been, either through the perverse or violent or whatever, but I don't think that's something he's known for as much as those are aspects of some of his novels.  It's also a lot longer (I think only Crow Road tops it in pages) than most of his stuff and not as \\"literary\\" in style.  It's fairly straightforward on the surface, almost earnestly so.  But you know what?  I like it.  The novel tells the story of nineteen year old Isis Whit, the Elect of a what basically is a Cult founded by her grandfather in the middle part of the century, based around peace and love and some other stuff.  They have a Festival every four years and her cousin Morag, who is to be the guest of honor, writes a letter stating not only is she not showing up, but she's given up the faith.  So Isis goes out to find her but it's not as simple as that and by the time she's done she'll have found out a lot of unpleasant things.  Banks gets credit for depicting the cult followers are normal people who are just looking for Truth, so to speak, and coming across as wacky, but essentially levelheaded, as opposed to a bunch of brainwashed zombies.  He also gets credit for his sympathetic and balanced portrayal of Isis, who is somewhat naive and very devout but he manages to make her charming instead of annoying, her religious faith is seen more of a natural extension of her instead of a brick she keeps hoisting on people.  If there's any big problem with the book it's that the other characters are not as three dimensional as she is and some come off as a tad one-note.  Banks alternates the story of Isis' search with the history of the Order itself, weaving in the story and amending it constantly as Isis starts to discover that not all is what it seems.  It also provides a look at British life at the end of the 20th century through the eyes of someone who has kept herself mostly separate from that life.  Throughout he throws the poor girl into all sorts of amusing situations and tosses out revelations that are not so amusing and I found it a fairly fast and witty read, rarely dragging and consistently entertaining throughout.  Perhaps it's not as incisive as it could have been, but it's deftly told and the twists and revelations all work (ie they make sense but they aren't immediately obvious) . . . except the fact that the narrator is the member of a cult the book is about as straightforward as they come.  Maybe that turns people off from it.  I don't know.  I, for one, would recommend it to any Banks fan, it may not singlehandedly propel him to the ranks of the literary masters but it doesn't detract from his status as one of the finest contemporary novelists or otherwise take away from the fine work he's already done.  This is merely an above average addition to an already distinguished body of work.  No more no less.y of the Order itself, weaving in the story and amending it constantly as Isis starts to discover that not all is what it seems.  It also provides a look at British life at the end of the 20th century through the eyes of someone who has kept herself mostly separate from that life.  Throughout he throws the poor girl into all sorts of amusing situations and tosses out revelations that are not so amusing and I found it a fairly fast and witty read, rarely dragging and consistently entertaining throughout.  Perhaps it's not as incisive as it could have been, but it's deftly told and the twists and revelations all work (ie they make sense but they aren't immediately obvious) . . . except the fact that the narrator is the member of a cult the book is about as straightforward as they come.  Maybe that turns people off from it.  I don't know.  I, for one, would recommend it to any Banks fan, it may not singlehandedly propel him to the ranks of the literary masters but it doesn't detract from his status as one of the finest contemporary novelists or otherwise take away from the fine work he's already done.  This is merely an above average addition to an already distinguished body of work.  No more no less.	2003-04-09
US	52986477	R26V7JBDQCUX8L	034910171X	133733347	Canal Dreams	Books	5	1	1	N	N	He's done better, but don't dismiss it	It's a testament to Banks' abilities that this book is even readable considering how awkward it feels.  As one can see from other reviews, it's probably his least liked book, and while I didn't hate it as much as the others seem to, I'm not going to go and claim that it's his masterpiece.  It has an interesting premise, a near future where involves a rather complicated seeming political situation that somehow involves the Panama canal.  Why are we at the canal?  Because the main character, a Japanese cello player can't bring herself to fly anywhere so she's taking a ship to Europe.  The main character is probably where the trouble starts, he does his best to give her some sort of personality through loads of actually rather striking backstory (his plotting skills may be off in this book but he sure can write and pull out a memorable scene) but the character comes off as rather isolated and distant and it's never really explained why she's that way.  Even with the backstory, her motivations are a bit clouded (I can understand her fear of flying but why such an extreme reaction?).  Also, he keeps throwing in absolutely bizarre dream sequences that while more like most people's dream sequences (ie they make no sense) they also seem to have no relation to the action at hand which makes them interesting reading but rather irrelevant.  I haven't even touched on the plot itself . . . basically during the voyage while they're stuck in the canal, a bunch of terrorists take over the ship . . . and without giving too much away it doesn't go well (he gets bonus points for an inventive use for grenades, talk about style) and our cello player suddenly turns into Bruce Willis.  Then the book ends.  So all the pieces are there, but they just aren't put together well.  So what's good about it?  The writing itself is excellent, some of his best descriptions are here and as I mentioned earlier, he has a good eye for setting a striking scene.  The book itself isn't that long, which means even if you don't enjoy it, it'll be over soon, so he gets points for not dragging out something that wasn't going too well to begin with.  So the book mostly succeeds in little moments, flashbacks and small scenes and the like, but when you put it all together, it doesn't hold all that well.  Oh well, he can't hit it out of the park every time.  Obviously not the book to go for if you're trying to introduce someone to him, it makes for a quick read on its own and there's enough decent stuff to recommend it to fans, even if they'll have no reason to read it more than once.ns even if you don't enjoy it, it'll be over soon, so he gets points for not dragging out something that wasn't going too well to begin with.  So the book mostly succeeds in little moments, flashbacks and small scenes and the like, but when you put it all together, it doesn't hold all that well.  Oh well, he can't hit it out of the park every time.  Obviously not the book to go for if you're trying to introduce someone to him, it makes for a quick read on its own and there's enough decent stuff to recommend it to fans, even if they'll have no reason to read it more than once.	2003-04-01
US	52986477	RX67SGC9X3D9C	0349101787	401705680	Walking on Glass	Books	5	15	15	N	N	Not the sum of its part, but what parts!	This was only his second novel so he's not exactly at the top of his game yet, but it shows quite a bit of ambition.  It's a story divided into three apparently separate parts.  You have one guy who's in love with this rather mysterious girl and it goes through how they met and how he falls for her.  The second part involves a rather paranoid fellow who thinks that the world is out to get him and lives his life by that assumption.  And the third . . . well the third part is weird.  Basically it's two people in a castle (very reminicent of a certain famous fantasy castle) who have to play games that they don't know the rules for and by winning they get a chance to answer a riddle that might let them escape.  Banks basically writes three excellent short stories and then attempts to link them by the end, which is where the tale starts to fall apart.  The link between the first and second (non-weird) stories are a bit on the coincidental side but at least make sense, while the other links are really stretching it and comes off as more forced than anything else.  However, as I mentioned all of the parts are excellent written and stand up fairly well on their own, the first story's revelations are surprising and overall that was the most emotionally involving story.  The paranoid gent in the second story was interesting and his attempts to stay ahead of the ubiquitious &quot;they&quot; are sort of fun, in a &quot;glad I'm not him&quot; sort of way, but his story seems to serve no purpose in relation to the overall theme itself.  And the last one . . . I don't know if Banks had started writing his SF tales at this point but the castle and the people in it, while borrowing from that certain fantasy castle I mentioned earlier, shows ten times of the imagination of the other parts and even other SF books.  The other two stories make them novel interesting, the addition of the third part pushes it into &quot;excellent&quot; territory and basically made the book for me.  Its revelations are also the most mind-boggling (I only guessed part of it) but again only have a tenuous relation to the rest of the book.  So if you go into this as reading three quasi-linked short stories in one book, you'll find this is an excellent read and Banks certainly gets points for both trying and coming pretty close to pulling it off.  Fortunately, he would get better with practice (see the structure of &quot;Use of Weapons&quot; which is nearly flawless).velations are also the most mind-boggling (I only guessed part of it) but again only have a tenuous relation to the rest of the book.  So if you go into this as reading three quasi-linked short stories in one book, you'll find this is an excellent read and Banks certainly gets points for both trying and coming pretty close to pulling it off.  Fortunately, he would get better with practice (see the structure of &quot;Use of Weapons&quot; which is nearly flawless).	2003-03-29
US	52986477	R2KMHQCINNF98Z	0349102147	884152891	Espedair Street	Books	5	14	14	N	N	Funny and touching	As I've mentioned before, one of the things that makes Iain Banks so great is his refusal to repeat himself, all of his novels, SF or not (and this one is not), are different animals, tackling different subjects in various ways.  Yet all of them are clearly written by the same person.  This is one of his less brutal novels, describing the rise and fall of a extremely popular fictional rock band as seen through the eyes of their bass player and principle song writer.  And while there are the typical things that you'd seen on the usual rock biopics, the drugs and sex and drinking, Banks doesn't focus on those all that much and looks at the price of fame, at the interaction between the band members, and takes some well-deserved stabs at the music industry while he's at it.  The book is told in the first person by Daniel Weir (or \\"Weird\\") and while he's a bit mopey he has a keen sense of humor and his observations of the madness going on around him (even as he willingly throws himself into the madness) are perceptive and the situations the characters find themselves in are often bizarre but strangely funny and oddly realistic.  Banks also makes a good decision to continue to follow Daniel after the band inevitably breaks up, interspersing his recollections of the band years with his life living in Scotland (he does an excellent job of portraying the city and people, giving the place a distinctive flair, his gift with the accents is well done, although that coupled with the local slang can make some conversations a bit hard to follow or understand . . .) and the people he meets, many of whom don't realize that he has more money than he can figure out what to do with and he's trying to decide what the heck to do with his life in general.  All of this actually does lead somewhere and Banks gets credit for giving the reader a definite ending while leaving it open at the same time so that we never know for sure how it goes . . . double credit goes to not making it some kind of sappy, \\"It's a Wonderful Life\\" sort of ending either.  In the end, the characters, major and minor, all come across as real people and Daniel feels like an oddball friend who has been telling you the story of his life while you sit there.  Possessed of a humanity Banks' book sometimes lack, this remains one of his most charming novels.of sappy, \\"It's a Wonderful Life\\" sort of ending either.  In the end, the characters, major and minor, all come across as real people and Daniel feels like an oddball friend who has been telling you the story of his life while you sit there.  Possessed of a humanity Banks' book sometimes lack, this remains one of his most charming novels.	2003-03-26
US	52986477	R2G3CKV4RO5WDF	0553292242	772866315	USE OF WEAPONS	Books	5	60	68	N	N	One of his best	The majority of the Culture novels are uniformly excellent, with the only problem in some of them that the final twist is so odd that the book loses some of its impact, or the plot becomes so knotted that the book loses some of its coherance.  Not so in this case.  This novel tends to deal only peripherally with the Culture, but at the same time their presence infuses and infests the entire novel.  Mostly it's the story of a non-Culture fellow who works for them in Special Circumstances (what a great euphemism) doing all the stuff they'd rather not admit to, starting wars, ending wars, waging wars, stuff that he's unfortunately good at.  What makes this novel so brilliant is the tight and inventive structure, alternating between the main story itself and scenes from the character's past.  All of it is wonderfully written and together they give not only an excellent view of the character in all his possibly dysfunctional glory, but also the rest of the characters (even the most minor character feels three dimensional), as well as a good cross-section of Banks' universe, both of the Culture and the civilizations that aren't part of the Culture.  The final twist will change everything and sharp eyed readers will probably figure it out long before the end, although Banks is so good at misdirection and distraction that it barely occurred to me even as it came crashing down on the characters.  Definitely his most consistently brilliant work, for once both structure and plot combine to create something that ranks as both first class SF and first class reading, period.  If you've got a friend who's been hesitating on discovering Banks' works, give them this one and if that doesn't convince them, well then perhaps nothing will.	2003-03-22
US	52986477	R3NC06VRGFEYCK	0819562718	494930127	Neveryna, or: The Tale of Signs and CitiesSome Informal Remarks Towards the Modular Calculus, Part Four (Return to Neveryon)	Books	5	18	18	N	N	Fantasy with a sense of reality	The longest of the Neveryon tales (the other collections are of a bunch of stories each, some novel length, most novella) as well as the second volume overall, this one really gives Delany the chance to stretch out and explore the culture of this world he's created in such detail.  The story of a teenage girl Pryn with a goal in mind but basically winds up wandering around all over, encountering all sorts of people and places.  However the book is much more than a simple travelogue, and Delany is too smart to reduce the story to simple Point A to Point B to Point C writing.  The themes of slavery and sexuality (and when they intersect) are still explored, though not as prominently, but instead Delany chooses to focus more on the nature of power and myth, and how the perception of reality can create myth and perhaps even alter reality.  Pyrn herself is a lot of fun, a strong female character, clever enough to follow her own agenda but not completely immune to the forces of other scheming around her.  Some other characters make appearances, Gorgik gets basically a glorified guest star appearance but like all the stories, even when he's not in the story itself, his presence informs the actions of all the characters.  Pryn's quest takes her all over and if the novel has any problems it seems to ramble at points and not go anywhere, as if Delany couldn't find the right balance between showcasing his culture or making an intellectual point, both of which are harder to sustain over the course of an entire novel.  However these are minor issues and will only marginally affect anyone's enjoyment in the book (you also don't need a doctorate in whatever to understand the themes, while a decent amount of this probably went over my head, you can read and enjoy the story just the same) and the rich detail of the Neveryon culture is intact and expanded on brilliantly, from the decadence of the cities to the noble squalor of the huts and villages.  His culture feels real but the book doesn't feel like a dissertation.  Probably the best prawise I can give is that even with all the highbrow stuff, Delany didn't forget to actually write a story, and given the usual state of fantasy, that's high praise indeed.ok doesn't feel like a dissertation.  Probably the best prawise I can give is that even with all the highbrow stuff, Delany didn't forget to actually write a story, and given the usual state of fantasy, that's high praise indeed.	2003-03-22
US	52986477	R3OC4OI2EIY9UV	1857230302	526400128	State of the Art	Books	5	27	27	N	N	Great sampling of his brilliance	There are a few versions of this floating around.  The one pictured on top of this page is the one I'll be talking about and is a collection of short fiction.  There's at least one other published earlier that only contains the title story.  \\"The State of the Art\\" is probably what this book is best known for, it's over a hundred pages long and thus dominates by far all of the other stories in the volume.  It's also by far the best, probably because the length allows Banks to really run with his ideas and themes.  Basically his ultra-advanced Culture runs into Earth circa 1977 and decides to hang around and observe for a bit.  This allows Banks to indulge in quite a bit of social commentary in the form of \\"aliens telling us what we do wrong\\" but he keeps it balanced,... some of the Culture think Earth is a great place and there are more than a few arguments that the Culture itself is stifling and stagnant (not that these are new arguments to anyone who has read the other Culture novels), all in all it feels like a complete novel as opposed to a novella, and just about everything works.  The book is worth it just for that story.  Fortunately the others are all pretty decent, most are pretty short and thus don't have as much impact either because they're just downright weird (the one with the sentinent tree or whatever was just odd) or experimental (the last story especially, I suspect I missed a wagon-load of comments on British society) but most of the others, such as the other Culture story or the guy stuck in the astronaut suit work just right and show the depth and extent of Banks' vision.  He's not concerned with working in just SF or just genre fiction or \\"just\\" anything, his stories run the gamut and are unmistakeably his, in whatever genre or strange mix thereof.  These new to Banks would be wise to sample this and see what he's capable of before moving onto the (hard as it is to believe) vastly better novels.  I wish I could say he's underrated, but it wouldn't be true.'t be true.	2003-03-19
US	52986477	RN639ZSUXKUR2	0819562785	890063389	Return to Neveryon (Return to Neveryon)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Brings it all back home	Delany finishes his series of Neveryon novels but focusing on the character who not only kicked off the series but has provided most of the impetus for the events in the novels, either as a main character, through cameo roles, or through an offscreen yet tangible presence.  Delany's stories in this volume are less self-consciously experimental (at least in structure) than the last volume and thus come across as more conventional.  They really aren't, most of them explore topics in semniotics, a subject I really don't have that great a knowledge of and as usual probably missed most of the bigger points he's trying to make.  But the stories make for interesting reads on their own.  The first story (which is the longest) has Gorgik, at the end of his career, tell a story about himself to a barbarian boy who could care less.  This one is probably the least exciting since it's basically all monologue, but it's still entertaining and delves a bit more into the nature of perception versus reality (at least that's how I read it).  The second story is a lot of fun and barely even involves Gorgik, instead telling the tale of a petty criminal, moving back and forth along his life, creating a very complex charactization, and highlighting more aspects of Delany's very intricately created culture.  The last story ends the series on a high note and is a slightly rewritten version of the first story from the first volume, showing Gorgik's formative years.  It's not too different from the original (if at all) I thought some sections were tweaked slightly and some parts were expanded upon more, but overall it was great the first time and it's just as good the second time.  One thing that's neat about the stories is how they inform each other, there aren't explicit connections between them but the connections are there (plus the chronology goes backward, adding another level of meaning) especially between the second and last stories (the one you'd least think would be connected) and it shows a level of thought and plotting and an attention to structure that you don't normally see in fantasy.  All in all, a nice cap to a fun series, one of the best pure sword and sorcery series to come along in a while.  What they lacked in blood and guts they made up in imagination and pure thought and for that reason they'll stand head and shoulders over other fantasy books that seek to continue the status quo and tell the same old stories.t shows a level of thought and plotting and an attention to structure that you don't normally see in fantasy.  All in all, a nice cap to a fun series, one of the best pure sword and sorcery series to come along in a while.  What they lacked in blood and guts they made up in imagination and pure thought and for that reason they'll stand head and shoulders over other fantasy books that seek to continue the status quo and tell the same old stories.	2003-03-17
US	52986477	R38T20QTZ3N02X	0819562777	275032257	Flight from Neveryon	Books	5	10	10	N	N	A leap forward for fantasy	This volume is by far the best one so far.  The first book (\\"Tales of Neveryon\\") was a bunch of neat stories with ulterior meanings that were sometimes obvious and sometimes no so obvious, and the second novel was good but meandered a bit more than it needed to.  Here, however, it all comes together.  Delany seems far more focused here than in the other volumes.  In the earlier stories Delany seemed more experimental than anything else, cloaking a variety of topics in the sword and sorcery genre just to see if he could, in this volume he's decided to explore subjects that mean a lot more personally to him, and this causes an incredible jump in quality (which was high to begin with).  The three stories are uniformly excellent here, and all are vastly different.  Delany seems to be trying to look into the nature of reality and myth here, trying to figure out the difference between what is \\"real\\" and what people perceive and how it might get like that.  This is more intellectual stuff than fantasy is normally used to, and far from the typical \\"good vs evil\\" simplicities that usually inhabit the fantasy genre.  The reason Delany can pull this off is because the fantasy here feels \\"real\\" when he focuses on minor events and characters who are really just regular people it gives the story added weight.  His Neveryon comes across as a real place with an active and complex culture, from the admirable to the hedonistic.  He's probably also the first to inject homosexuality into fantasy, in all its forms, which is something that has always been noticably absent from fantasy over the years (not that it needs to be there, but it's about the only major genre to not even acknowledge it . . . except for the usual fey, pale, lisping princes and the like . . .) and is very prominent in this volume, moreso than the others, which it was acknowledged but not really addressed.  The last story especially \\"The Tale of Plagues and Carnivals\\" is really an amazing story, nominally about the emergence of an AIDS like illness into Neveryon while also an account of Delany's experiences in NY in the early eighties when AIDS was first becoming more prevalent.  He captures both times well and the story jumps back and forth from his recollections to Neveryon to his thoughts on writing the book and eventually does a lot to blur the line between our world and Neveryon.  It alone is worth the purchase of the volume.  Overall these stories are some of his best post-\\"Dhalgren\\" work and for anyone who thinks that fantasy can be more relevant than beating up trolls, they owe it to themselves to track down this series.mergence of an AIDS like illness into Neveryon while also an account of Delany's experiences in NY in the early eighties when AIDS was first becoming more prevalent.  He captures both times well and the story jumps back and forth from his recollections to Neveryon to his thoughts on writing the book and eventually does a lot to blur the line between our world and Neveryon.  It alone is worth the purchase of the volume.  Overall these stories are some of his best post-\\"Dhalgren\\" work and for anyone who thinks that fantasy can be more relevant than beating up trolls, they owe it to themselves to track down this series.	2003-03-14
US	52986477	R1OH70QNCM0FTH	081956270X	181495342	Tales of Neveryon	Books	5	29	33	N	N	Fantasy with a point	If you're a big reader of fantasy, you might notice that sometimes the writers try to use their fantasy stories to make some sort of philosophical point, maybe try to comment on male/female relationships, or something equally weighty.  More often than not, these come off as heavy-handed and clumsy, oversimplifying their point hideously to make sure everyone \\"gets it\\" and then hammering the same point home over the course of several books to the point of tediousness.  Those type of books annoy the heck out of me.  So it's nice to see someone actually doing it right with this book.  Delany's fantasy world isn't strictly fantasy, per se (it has elements but is more like the world right when writing was first invented) but it's certainly not our world.  So he creates this detailed world, shows it to us and then proceeds over the course of the stories in this book to make comments on our world and use the characters and situations to explore similar situations in the \\"real world\\".  All of this is done without him standing up and screaming \\"Look! I'm being didactic!\\" and most of the time unless you're looking for the specific commentary, you won't even notice, that's how subtle it tends to be.  Even better, Delany tends to just make his point and move, without laboring over the same idea in story after story.  His ideas are different, too, than what you'd normally find in fantasy, it's not the usual \\"men and women don't understand each other\\" he looks into things like currency, the origins of feminism and the sexual nature of slavery.  And even without the intellectual angle to these tales, they're entertaining in their own right, Delany's characters and settings are enormously exciting, and while there's not an overarching plot to the stories, characters do carry over from tale to tale and develop over time.  And for all his examinations, Delany never forgets the most important thing about a story . . . keeping it interesting.  His world is rendered with enough detail to fill several books and fortunately there were three other Neveryon books after this one.  But those who think fantasy can't ever be smart should start here and see what else can be done with the genre.  As fun as it is, it can't always boil down to \\"good versus evil.\\"fill several books and fortunately there were three other Neveryon books after this one.  But those who think fantasy can't ever be smart should start here and see what else can be done with the genre.  As fun as it is, it can't always boil down to \\"good versus evil.\\"	2003-02-18
US	52986477	R2TDNZSNY75S17	0967684749	520844945	Channel Zero	Books	5	6	10	N	N	It's an angry little book	On its own, just going by the basic plot, Channel Zero wouldn't be too impressive.  Sure it's an interestingly told tale of an America not too far in the future where the government controls the media and a &quot;Clean Act&quot; keeps everyone in line while saying it's &quot;for their own good&quot;, which the people, being apathetic sheep, timidly go along with.  Like I said, nothing too revolutionary here.  But it's Wood's style that brings this story to life, his stark black and white drawings, seemingly carved on the page, jagged and angular characters, buildings that are both looming and out of focus, images that come across as grainy photographs from not too distant Hell.  This future America comes to life in the form of his angry drawings and it does a better job than any series of pristine photographs ever could.  Wood's graphic sense and style set the book apart from just about anything else out there and it's worth reading just for that.  The story itself is entertaining, like I said, as Jennie 2.5 seeks to bring revolution to the masses and stop the government's oppression of the people.  But he picks easy targets (the Christian Right? the media? try to be a little original at least) and the reader has to buy the assumption that all of the bad things occur because the populace is too numb to care and too apathetic to bother to correct it, the believability of which probably depends on how cynical you are.  The plot tends to float around and not all that much really seems to happen, other than Jennie herself there aren't many strong characters, though I do like how Jennie is not a total role model, she's abrasive and elitist, saying that on the one hand the US government is wrong but that a country like China can do whatever it wants to its people because it's &quot;their business&quot; which can come across as a little sanctimonious and self-righteous, but then a good radical needs those qualities anyway.  But honestly, all the revolutionary screaming and rhetorical posturing takes a back seat to the images themselves and long after the meat of the story has faded, Wood's terrifying, angry drawings will be what remains with you.  Those, better than anything else, convey what he's actually trying to say.rhetorical posturing takes a back seat to the images themselves and long after the meat of the story has faded, Wood's terrifying, angry drawings will be what remains with you.  Those, better than anything else, convey what he's actually trying to say.	2003-02-17
US	52986477	R1MFF6157BQY7W	0375706690	621237166	Babel-17 / Empire Star	Books	5	84	89	N	N	Smart SF	After reading Dhalgren, this novel is just like summer beach reading.  Not that it's easy, but for the most part the effort is worth it.  One of the few SF books to deal with the relatively esoteric topic of language and how it defines us (which really seems to be a natural SF topic, being that they deal with aliens and stuff so much), something it sort of shares with Ian Watson's The Embedding.  Delany however won a deserved Nebula for this book (actually he tied with Flowers for Algernon, also a fine book, but as different from this as can be), which probably wasn't at all what readers were expecting in 1966 when this was published.  But who cares what the readers want, as long as it's good?  And this is.  As I mentioned before it's a mediation on how language defines us, both to ourselves and in relation to other people, all cloaked in a Space Opera type story.  The Invaders (who are never really seen, weirdly enough, but I think they're human) are attacking the Alliance and are using a mysterious weapon called Babel-17.  What is it?  Nobody is really sure so the military recruits famous poet Rydra Wong to figure out what's going on.  She has little idea either but has come closer than most people.  What follows is layer upon layer of story as Ms Wong examines her own life as she tries to unravel the mystery of Babel-17, examining both the roots of language and doing her best not to get killed.  Rydra is a rarity in SF, a three dimensional woman who stands on her own as a strong character who doesn't come across as an emotional maelstrom or an ice-cold witch.  She's one of the most enjoyable and well-rounded characters to come down the pipeline in SF and there are very few characters since who can match up to her.  Delany's story just a bit wacky toward the end and he makes up more than a few SF twists to explain the ending but the story holds together really well and it has brains and a soul underneath all the deep thinking.  It's also very short, so all the people scared off by Dhalgren can come over here and see what the man can do in small doses.  Then they can move on to the big stuff.ple scared off by Dhalgren can come over here and see what the man can do in small doses.  Then they can move on to the big stuff.	2003-02-14
US	52986477	R1453V9X7ALZHD	075510062X	214080434	the Dark Light Years	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Slight but penetrating	In my edition of the book it's pretty obvious that the person who wrote the back cover copy didn't actually bother to read the book itself and just read the last two chapters, since that's basically what it describes (it must be the publisher, because my copy of Barry Malzberg's \\"Galaxies\\" is from the same publisher and the same problem is there) . . . which isn't bad, but turns out to be incredibly misleading and makes you think the point of the book is very different from what it really is. What we have here is a slim novel about humans making contact with an alien race and lousing it up pretty bad. Aldiss' theory, in what was becoming a fairly prevalent one among SF authors at the time, was that aliens, not being human, can't be necessarily understood very easily and it'll take a lot of work. Unlike Lem's Solaris, which postulated that we'd never be able to understand aliens no matter how hard we tried, Aldiss states that we could do it if we work at it, but nobody will bother. The bulk of the book is a satire on the human race essentially, dissecting all the little things that make us so screwy as a whole. It's not a very optimistic book, so don't expect any uplifting message here, while most of the humans are fairly decent people, a lot of them do some pretty mean things out of ignorance or just plain spite. And the aliens themselves are sort of dopey, while the whole \\"communicating through excrement\\" thing is pretty funny and there's some other scattered neat ideas, as a race they just aren't that interesting. In fact the whole book suffers from good ideas but okay execution . . . the plot itself is almost too straightforward, there are barely any really standout characters (the main characters disappears partway through the book, never to be seen again) and while there's a statement lurking in the story somewhere, it never really coheres into a solid one. On the whole though it's a thought provoking and entertaining read and short enough that you can finish it off in a long afternoon without much trouble. Aldiss is enough of a master that even his minor works offer something to take home and make it a worthwhile read. Definitely worth a look.t off in a long afternoon without much trouble. Aldiss is enough of a master that even his minor works offer something to take home and make it a worthwhile read. Definitely worth a look.	2003-02-08
US	52986477	R2RRVQM9RQNTEJ	0671559303	719191914	Hothouse	Books	5	11	11	N	N	Showcases his imagination	Of all the &quot;New Wave&quot; SF writers that emerged in the sixties and seventies, Brian Aldiss is probably the least flashiest and most consistent.  His books have this sort of quiet confidence, as if he already knows they're unique and doesn't need to go about proclaiming it.  Most of the time the trick is in the presentation.  In this novel we have an Earth millions of years in the future, a planet that has stopped rotating and is thus half light and half dark, a planet where most of the animals have died out and plants have taken over, evolving into all sorts of weird lifeforms, all of which you have to read to believe.  Humans are still around but most traces of civilization are gone, they live fairly nomadic and primitive existences.  The biggest problem with this book is that the setup is just about all you get, while there is a plot of sorts, it's for the most part episodic and at best ramshackle, lurching from situation to situation.  But it's Aldiss' vision of the future Earth, orbiting a sun soon to go nova, and a planet covered in all kinds of fantastic forms of life, that sustains the book.  Every time you turn the page something new and bizarre greets you and I'm just amazed the man was able to think of all these things.  Granted most of the plot is devoted to showing off these things but when then they're this consistently entertaining I'm not going to argue too much.  Honestly there probably is some kind of allegorical aspect to the plot that I'm just missing because I'm too dense but hey, whatever.  Fans of pure science probably won't be too thrilled because Aldiss' extrapolations of the far future seem to have little to do with actual science, but as I always say, don't let science get in the way of a good story.  This is an absolutely fascinating story that ranks with his better works and while it's not his absolute masterpiece, it certainly deserves to be read.	2003-02-07
US	52986477	R11GIACG5X2XQL	0802150918	26587324	Three Novels: Molloy, Malone Dies, The Unnamable	Books	5	45	48	N	N	Words words words	It's hard to top Beckett when it comes to sheer density of prose.  His trilogy here is considered one of the greatest sets of novels in the 20th century, and it's a rightly deserved reputation.  Here Beckett does two neat tricks over the course of the three books, first he gradually strips the story down to its very essence, that being words and sentences and phrases to the point where the story is almost pure thought processes.  Second, and this is probably harder, he manages the trick of taking an absolutely bleak view of life and making it absolutely hilarious.  Through absurd situations, witty asides and just general black humor there are fewer works of literature that will literally have you laughing out loud while forcing you to confront the possible pointlessness of life.  At no point is any of this easy reading, Beckett's prose can be politely described as relentless and the words just keep coming, maintaining an odd, jerky sort of rhythm that manages to pull you along so that the books read much faster than you might expect.  And even though it's a trilogy mostly in spirit, there are some definite progressions from book to book.  Molloy is the easiest to read and makes the most sense, even if its circuitiousness can be madly frustrating sometimes.  And for some reason Beckett pulls an absolutely bizarre switch halfway through that I'm not smart enough to understand.  But for the most part it's fairly accessable.  Malone Dies is as bleak as the name implies and is probably the funniest in a black humour sort of way.  I actually found this one easiest to understand though, but that's probably not the case with everyone.  And then you hit the last book The Unnamable (which I saw someone jokingly once refer to as &quot;The Unreadable&quot;) which brings Beckett to the absolute pinnacle of his style.  There's barely any description to give the reader a visual image, and whatever descriptions there are always shift, never staying still.  The novel is pure thought, a series of knotted sentences managing to convey a whole range of emotions and somehow achieving a strange beauty in the process.  The final few words of the novel probably sum Beckett up just as much as anything else.  These aren't novels you read for plot, but for the writing and his prose makes it all worthwhile.  For those readers who don't mind doing a little work in their reading to be rewarded, Beckett is probably the place to go.  This trilogy stands as one of the more uniquely beautiful pieces of the 20th century.  The Nobel Prize was justly deserved., a series of knotted sentences managing to convey a whole range of emotions and somehow achieving a strange beauty in the process.  The final few words of the novel probably sum Beckett up just as much as anything else.  These aren't novels you read for plot, but for the writing and his prose makes it all worthwhile.  For those readers who don't mind doing a little work in their reading to be rewarded, Beckett is probably the place to go.  This trilogy stands as one of the more uniquely beautiful pieces of the 20th century.  The Nobel Prize was justly deserved.	2003-02-01
US	52986477	RLXY0LGCHZ7SC	1896597394	749368739	Jar of Fools	Books	5	3	3	N	N	A gem of a tale	Since it's a comic people probably don't pay as much attention to it as they should, but those people would be wrong.  What Lutes has created here is a neat little tale that is both poignant and beautiful, tragic and uplifting, all at the same time.  The story of a failed magician, doubly haunted by both the death of his brother and the failure of his last relationship, watching his mentor slip into senility, Lutes weaves the themes of magic and loss into the stories of his characters.  None of the characters, from the con-man trying to raise his daughter, to the ex-girlfriend trapped in a dull existance, seem to be where they want to be, but that seems to be as much their own fault as the fault of life itself.  Lutes evokes a sense of sympathy for his characters, even when they fail to see what their actions do to themselves and the thrill of the story is seeing whether they'll realize it in time.  Lutes uses the comic format to its fullest, creating a fine synthesis of words and pictures, letting the art speak for the story when necessary (the silent moments are perhaps the story's finest pages) without forcing it to labor under weighted prose.  In the end he creates a tale as richly detailed as any prose story, made that much better by the comic (I'm sorry \\"graphic novel\\") format, a medium he does his part to prove it can be so much better than it is.  Get this and maybe more comics like this possible.	2003-02-01
US	52986477	R2M2434T0N0ZE9	1857989147	487798618	The Book of Skulls	Books	5	50	51	N	N	Get this back into print!	In another world this probably would have been a much bigger seller.  Unfortunately the very thing that makes the book so great also works against it.  This novel is the kind of intelligent, provocative SF that the genre always threaten to do but so rarely manages to make it work.  However, that's also the problem.  This is hardly the typical vision of \\"SF\\" with spaceships and convoluted science and aliens and rayguns.  So the SF fans aren't going to be really into this.  However, the publishing company probably promoted it as a SF book (Silverberg alludes to as much in the introduction) and thus the people out there looking for something sophisticated and different automatically were steered away from it because of the big \\"SF!\\" label.  Gah.  So what is this book about?  On the surface it's about four young college men in the seventies who discover a cult in Arizona that can bestow eternal life on people, if they come in groups of four (a \\"Recepticle\\").  The only catch?  Well, only two of the people actually get eternal life.  In order to finish the ritual, one person has to commit suicide and the other has to be killed by the group.  All four characters know this going in.  But that's not really what the book is about.  In reality, it's a brilliant character study.  Silverberg tries the fairly difficult trick of having all four characters take turns narrating in the first person, which is harder than you'd think (well it's hard to do really well).  Silverberg manages to give each guy a subtle cadence and rhythm to his voice, so that you can honestly ignore the names and read the chapters and know exactly who is speaking.  It's that good.  So the book bounces from character to character, and for the most part the monologues are absolutely mindboggling, Oliver's internal rant on the unfairness of death is some of the most fiery prose I've ever seen put to paper and there are great moments scattered all throughout.  It's beautiful.  It's barely SF.  If you interpret the cult itself as basically an extended metaphor then you can basically have a character examination on par with that of Margaret Atwood or the like.  Frankly, like most of Silverberg's seventies work, it ranks as simply excellent writing in any genre and is unjustly forgotten, in my opinion.  Fortunately most of those books are starting to trickle back into print (I've seen Dying Inside, A Time of Changes, and Tower of Glass myself), so perhaps it's only a matter of time before someone wises up and gets this book into the hands of the people who deserve to read it.  That is, everyone.  If you find it, don't hesitate to snap up.  It's one of those rare books you never knew existed but once you read it, you'll feel like you've always had it.the cult itself as basically an extended metaphor then you can basically have a character examination on par with that of Margaret Atwood or the like.  Frankly, like most of Silverberg's seventies work, it ranks as simply excellent writing in any genre and is unjustly forgotten, in my opinion.  Fortunately most of those books are starting to trickle back into print (I've seen Dying Inside, A Time of Changes, and Tower of Glass myself), so perhaps it's only a matter of time before someone wises up and gets this book into the hands of the people who deserve to read it.  That is, everyone.  If you find it, don't hesitate to snap up.  It's one of those rare books you never knew existed but once you read it, you'll feel like you've always had it.	2003-01-18
US	52986477	RYHBNORWH654N	0553106635	549456361	A Storm of Swords (A Song of Ice and Fire, Book 3)	Books	5	17	19	N	N	Three for three	I don't know, if I were George Martin and by some metaphysical quirk all of his characters somehow came to life, I'd be very very worried.  The afterlife of this world he's created here is certainly getting crowded.  Someone, somewhere must be starting some kind of pool to try and guess which characters will make it to the end of the series.  At this point I couldn't even guess.  This is one of the few books I've ever read that has absolutely no sense of \\"false jeopardy\\" at all, you know when a character is in danger but you know he's not truly in any danger because the author would never kill him?  That's all out the window here.  There are hundreds of characters in the book and there are still some minor characters from the first book that have survived while so called \\"main\\" characters have fallen by the wayside.  Anyway, if you're reading this it's either to a) see if you agree with my opinion of the book or b) you're curious to see if this series is any good.  Too many series start off good and then go swiftly downhill, rest assured, amazingly enough the quality has been maintained since the start.  Each book heralds big changes (some permanent, some less so) for all the characters and there's not a sense that Martin is just killing time while he pumps out books.  After three books the series is just as gripping as it has ever been and if he coasted on momentum alone for the last few books (I hear there's a total of six) it would still be pretty decent.  This remains one of the most realized fantasy worlds I've ever read, sure there's magic but it's kept pretty much in the background, no pompous battles of flashy wizards here, the focus here is all on plot and charactization.  Another thing I have to credit Martin for and it's done so skillfully that you might not notice it, how wonderfully detailed the backstory and history of this land is.  It spans several thousand years but there's no big \\"history appendix\\" at the end of the book, it's all done through dialogue and he really gives it a mythical sense, even the stuff that only happened twenty years before the series starts.  The history itself almost becomes a character.  There'll probably be calls for Martin to write a sort of \\"prequel\\" to this series, since he makes it seems so exciting, but hopefully he'll resist since all that would do is fill in the blanks really.  Best to leave 'em wanting more.  Anyway, everything that made the first two books great is here in spades, and I for one am eagerly anticipating the next book.  And I'm not normally a big fantasy fan.  Go figure.ogue and he really gives it a mythical sense, even the stuff that only happened twenty years before the series starts.  The history itself almost becomes a character.  There'll probably be calls for Martin to write a sort of \\"prequel\\" to this series, since he makes it seems so exciting, but hopefully he'll resist since all that would do is fill in the blanks really.  Best to leave 'em wanting more.  Anyway, everything that made the first two books great is here in spades, and I for one am eagerly anticipating the next book.  And I'm not normally a big fantasy fan.  Go figure.	2003-01-12
US	52986477	RL0SG9FBQNE4	0553579908	153810577	A Clash of Kings (A Song of Ice and Fire, Book 2)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	The hits keep on coming	It's way harder to do a second book in a series than the first book.  After all, the shock of the new has worn off, the writer has to think of new situations without making them look contrived, and continue old plots without looking like he's coasting.  The first book put the wheels in motion, setting up the premise just long enough to bring it all crumbling down, at the same time almost gleefully permanently ruining a lot of characters' lives.  But the great thing about having a cast of thousands is that there's plenty more where that came from.  And boy is there, this book clocks in at substantially longer than the first book but somehow it still retains an almost gripping readability.  Basically everything that got messed up in the first book continue to get messed up even more here . . . where in the first book everyone was trying to kill each other in secret, now everyone decides to be open about it.  Martin juggles what feels like eighty plots with ease and you really get the sense that a hundred things are going on at once, his ability to depict battle scenes from many different viewpoints (plus his skill at showing how rumors spread, often unless a character was present they don't know exactly what the heck happened) is effective and gets a lot of practice.  The plot twists unpredictible, and while Martin continues to show no mercy or love for his characters when deciding who lives or dies, he gets the reader so used to anybody being fair game that when he pulls the opposite trick, you're surprised and impressed all the same.  Don't be daunted by the size of the books in this series, pages will literally fly past as you read them since something is always happening and the book never becomes bogged down or becomes a chore.  He actually manages the rare feat of having a second book just as good as the first, a book where events actually happen and change the world irreversibly, as opposed to everyone just treading water.  And if the plot threads still left for the next book are any indication, it's only going to get more interesting.  If you have any interest in epic fantasy, get started on this series while you can.r the next book are any indication, it's only going to get more interesting.  If you have any interest in epic fantasy, get started on this series while you can.	2003-01-04
US	52986477	R1T3BCDE5X7W5R	0553573403	268067011	A Game of Thrones (A Song of Ice and Fire, Book 1)	Books	5	18	20	N	N	This is how it's supposed to be	I almost don't want to admit to myself how darn good this book was.  So many times an epic fantasy comes down the pipeline and the first book drops heavily into your lap, laden with promise and you devour it and move eagerly to the next book . . . and the writer can't sustain it.  I don't want that to happen here.  Martin's book is the best thing to hit epic fantasy since that little guy tried to ditch that ring someone gave him.  Martin strips away all the things that have bloated the fantasy genre over the years, useless window dressing races, simplistic good vs evil conflicts blown up to ridiculous proportions, and even (yes!) magic and brings it back to the two most important elements: epic and characters.  Martin's land is more akin to a medieval society and is as complex as anything we've got on this here planet, even if there are only humans on it.  But what humans.  The cast of characters is sprawling, not unlike such books as War and Peace, and Martin makes every single one an actual three dimensional person, kings and commoners, men and women, children and elderly, all complete with shades of good and bad.  Nobody is utterly flawed but neither are they pure and good.  In fact they're just like real people, and their words and actions resonate.  Martin keeps the complicated plot moving by dividing the book into relatively short chapters, all from the POV of a different character.  Not only does the jumping back and forth create a sort of suspense, but it gives the reader a variety of views on the same event sometimes, lending the book an extra layer of complexity.  Without giving too much away the plot involves basically everyone trying to kill everyone else without making it look like they're trying to kill everyone.  But this intrigue is enormously exciting and Martin keeps the twists coming nonstop.  He's not afraid to mess with any of these characters and he does.  This isn't a book for the faint of hard, events start out bad and go steadily downhill from there.  Every good turn is balanced but an equally bad turn and by the end the score doesn't seem so balanced anymore.  Characters you think will last to the end of the series are killed, brutally and with the sort of finality that you know he's not playing games.  You get the sense that nobody is safe and that's a good thing.  It's a gritty world, where all actions have consequences, and while it's not all darkness and gloom (there's a lot of black humor but a lot of honestly funny stuff too) there aren't many chapters where people are picking flowers either.  The best praise I can give is that Martin's world feels real, with its own dense history sprinkled throughout, and this weight gives the book its main strength.  I may not want to live here, but I sure as heck can accept its existence.  I don't want to say that this book is flawless, but it just about is, every risk works, every twist makes sense, Martin's lean yet muscular prose, unexpectedly leaping into pure poetry at some moments, is the perfect drive for this constantly moving story.  It's hard to make people believe that a gigantic tale built around manipulations could be a page turner but it is, most definitely.  After suffering through so many longwinded pretenders, finally a book that feels like epic fantasy, the way it's supposed to be.  It shouldn't be this good.  Except it is.  It can't stay this good.  I have a feeling it will.  On to the next book!om there.  Every good turn is balanced but an equally bad turn and by the end the score doesn't seem so balanced anymore.  Characters you think will last to the end of the series are killed, brutally and with the sort of finality that you know he's not playing games.  You get the sense that nobody is safe and that's a good thing.  It's a gritty world, where all actions have consequences, and while it's not all darkness and gloom (there's a lot of black humor but a lot of honestly funny stuff too) there aren't many chapters where people are picking flowers either.  The best praise I can give is that Martin's world feels real, with its own dense history sprinkled throughout, and this weight gives the book its main strength.  I may not want to live here, but I sure as heck can accept its existence.  I don't want to say that this book is flawless, but it just about is, every risk works, every twist makes sense, Martin's lean yet muscular prose, unexpectedly leaping into pure poetry at some moments, is the perfect drive for this constantly moving story.  It's hard to make people believe that a gigantic tale built around manipulations could be a page turner but it is, most definitely.  After suffering through so many longwinded pretenders, finally a book that feels like epic fantasy, the way it's supposed to be.  It shouldn't be this good.  Except it is.  It can't stay this good.  I have a feeling it will.  On to the next book!	2002-12-29
US	52986477	R1ZA9T6P8SX06O	0441626831	371597098	On Stranger Tides	Books	5	30	35	N	N	Average Powers still better than most	For some absolutely bizarre reason some person gave this book to my grandfather (whose favorite book is Popular Science) thinking that he might like it.  So that explains how I wound up with this novel, which I had actually been seeking out for some time.  And it turns out to be an awful fun read, not as consistently dazzling as The Anubis Gates or Last Call, but definitely falling into the solid entertainment catagory.  Powers turns back to the clock to the time of the pirates, and into that pot throws voodoo magic, zombies, sorcerers and the Fountain of Youth.  His plotting remains are deft as ever, although everything feels relatively straightforward this time, most of the major twists you can see at least a portion of them coming from somewhere, there isn't a huge amount of complexity going on and overall it's probably safe to say not a lot really happens.  But even Powers on auto-pilot has much to offer and his depiction of the pirate community is great fun and the introduction of the fantasy elements never feels forced or contrived, the journey to the Fountain of Youth is one of the book's creepiest and most magical moments.  And even though there's not a huge amount going on, Powers keeps the action coming and moves things along swiftly enough that at least you're rarely bored, even if you're being more entertained than amazed.  To date, Powers hasn't written a bad book and he still has tons more imagination than most of his writing peers so that his novels are at the very worst merely interesting instead of jaw droppingly good.  That's the case here, you'll find the book a pleasant enough time but it certainly doesn't rank with his best work.  Still, it's great fun and who said being merely entertaining was bad?  This should be next on the list after you've whetted your appetite with The Anubis Gates or Last Call.  You won't be disappointed.	2002-12-22
US	52986477	RPJUM9SIR5GUP	0553201778	737744346	Floating Opera	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Short AND bleak AND funny	Barth has so many big huge enormous novels that his first two shorter works are perhaps unjustly overlooked in the shadows of their bulkier brethren.  This novel coupled with The End of the Road established him as a new voice with a distinctly different point of view.  No doubt readers were hardly ready to read the book and find out that it's about a man who one day decides that the most logical thing for him to do is commit suicide and so he spends the entire book discussing what exactly led him to this decision.  Barth somehow turns this jarring premise into something both witty and often extremely funny.  Told in the first person, like most of his best books, the constant barrage of mythological references that characterize most of his work haven't appeared yet and so the book remains mostly straightforward (though the copy on the front cover amusingly compares the book to famous literary personages) . . . or at least as straightforward as Barth gets.  The narrator tells his story in a roundabout fashion, jumping all over the place in time, sometimes stopping the story for brief asides that occur to him along the way, always reminding the reader of the planned end result of all of this.  Barth manages to keep his narrator witty and involving, his viewpoint is detached and often bordering on existential, yet the book isn't cold and sterile, in fact it's move very quickly and despite its subject matter is pretty enjoyable.  It's not as dark as The End of the Road and even though it's about suicide it really isn't all that depressing.  For some reason the original ending was changed at the request (more like demand) of the publisher, later versions have restored the original and I'm not sure what the fuss was all about, there's nothing really shocking about it.  Different times I guess.  Still, along The End of the Road, this remains one of the best ways to ease your way into Barth before tackling the more complicated, erudite stuff he would later accomplish.  Everyone has to start somewhere.  You might as well start here.one has to start somewhere.  You might as well start here.	2002-12-19
US	52986477	R2SRLC7WRVA1OK	B00005VSQ2	715930180	The end of the road	Books	5	10	16	N	N	Barth roars out of the starting gate	When you pick the book up you think to yourself, \\"There's no way this is John Barth\\" after all after holding the book for several minutes, your muscles aren't aching at all from the weight.  Heck the novel is almost pocket sized.  Yes, kids, early on Barth was reasonable concise in length (not that I don't like his longer stuff), at least for his first two novels (I think his third was the Sot-Weed Factor) so this makes a good place for novices lacking the stamina to jump right in.  And actually for a first effort this is remarkably good and remarkably daring, considering that it was published in the late fifties.  It's the story of Jake Horner, a young guy recently hired to teach grammar at a small college, and the infidelity he gets involved in with one of the other professor's wives and what happens because of that.  The fairly standard story is completely changed by Horner's narration though.  Cynical and uncaring, but somehow oddly admirable, Barth manages to make him seem almost likeable, even when his behavior verges on being that of a total monster (emotionally at least).  His verbal sparring with his fellow professor Joe, who's outlook on life is equally extreme as Horner's is nonexistant (you could probably make a case and say that the story is existential in nature but I don't know enough about the philosophy to say for sure).  But while the story remains at its heart a tale of infidelity, toward the end it takes a decidedly dark turn as Barth shows that everything has consequences.  If the tone and nature of the story was daring for its time, its unsparingly frank view of abortion must have been absolutely shocking and even today is probably enough to turn people off.  It shouldn't.  While not his best book, it shows a master beginning to stretch his muscles (or at least realize he had muscles to stretch) and announced the entrance of a new literary talent with a voice that could be both uproariously funny and starkly grim all in the same story.	2002-12-13
US	52986477	R2171603Z1PU2A	1857988833	449717498	The Drowned World	Books	5	22	25	N	N	The world ends, not with a bang, but a gurgle	The cover of my version has a lizard sitting quite happily on some poor guy's face, which is the only part of his body sticking out of the water.  For some reason, I really like it.  This would be considered atypical SF if it came out today, I can't even imagine the reaction back in the sixties when this was first published, especially to an audience that had been raised on an audience of big guns and fast spaceships and heroes who solved problems by punching aliens in the face.  Ballard's novel isn't about saving the world, in fact, the world is well past that point by the time the book opens and it's only going to get worse, all the people left can do is figure out how to live with the changes.  As you can probably surmise from the title, climatic changes and the melting of the polar ice caps have caused the water levels in the world to rise, putting most cities under water and turning the world nearly into one big tropical ocean.  This change is more than just cosmetic since it's apparently resurrecting racial memories buried deep within the collective unconscious, thus people start having weird dreams about times when the world used to be like this.  Action packed?  Not really.  Hallucinogenic?  At times.  Different?  You bet.  Ballard succeeds mostly on the strength of his ability to convey this flooded, humid world in all its declining glory.  The protagonists wander about almost aimlessly, not even sure why they do what they do.  The \\"villains\\" of the piece provide a nice counterpoint to all the gloomy stuff but in the end serve as little more than a distraction, albeit a strangely entertaining one.  In the end it doesn't cohere as nicely as the slightly better (in my opinion) \\"The Crystal World\\" where Ballard's prose is more finely polished in all its hazy glory, while the protagonist can be more easily identified with by the reader.  The stuff with the pirates that take up most of the middle of the book is fun, but serves as little more than a backdrop and a soggy world just doesn't have that eerie outerworldy quality of a planet slowly turning to crystal.  Also, the whole \\"racial memory\\" thing, while you could probably write a book on it, isn't really dealt with in any sort of detail here, it sort of pops up again when it's convenient.  Still, for a debut this is a heck of a lot better than anything I could do and it's safe to say Ballard got a lot better real fast.  Even then, this is a fine book well worth your time, because whatever Ballard does, he does better than just about anyone else.a soggy world just doesn't have that eerie outerworldy quality of a planet slowly turning to crystal.  Also, the whole \\"racial memory\\" thing, while you could probably write a book on it, isn't really dealt with in any sort of detail here, it sort of pops up again when it's convenient.  Still, for a debut this is a heck of a lot better than anything I could do and it's safe to say Ballard got a lot better real fast.  Even then, this is a fine book well worth your time, because whatever Ballard does, he does better than just about anyone else.	2002-12-03
US	52986477	R67BJOL7BD2RD	0679748407	587113700	Maus : A Survivor's Tale. I.  My Father Bleeds History. II. And Here My Troubles Began	Books	5	2	4	N	N	It could only have been a comic	The Holocaust is something that needs requires both words and pictures.  Either alone cannot do the horror justice, words aren't able to convey the sheer inhumanity of what was done and pictures don't tell the stories behind the faces, of the lives tragically cut short by a crime beyond the comprehension of all except for those who lived through it.  Spiegelman, an underground cartoonist who published his and others' works in RAW in the seventies and eighties, combined both words and pictures in telling the story of his father during the Holocaust, of his capture and imprisonment and the things he saw and did there.  The initial surface of the comic is deceiving, since you see at first funny animals in the place of people . . . but reading the story behind the cats and mice you start to realize that the drawings might from one man's imagination but the story isn't, these things that Spiegelman deftly draws on the page actually happened.  Over the course of the story Spiegelman depicts his sometimes frustrating efforts to get his father to talk about what he experienced, flashing back to WWII Germany/Poland under Nazi occupation and to the present day, where Vladek is a cranky old man who argues with his second wife, is stubbornly set in his ways and drives his son, who he sees infrequently, absolutely nuts.  But Spiegelman tells it all like it is and leaves nothing uncovered, his father's admirable quick thinking and amazing luck under pressure sitting comfortable next to the amazingly frustrating old man he grew up to be.  In the end it grounds the story, and there's no reason not to believe that this resourceful young man and the old man are one and the same, it's just the years that have changed.  Spiegelman deals unflinchingly with his mother's suicide, his own thoughts about becoming a father and eventually his own feelings about his father.  The combination of historical thriller, as Vladek does his best to stay alive, and present day examination gives the story a sense of reality and a humanity that wouldn't have been possible outside of comics.  The perfect marriage of words and pictures always threatened to be, but all too infequently aspires to, blooms here, as Spiegelman shows that sometimes in the face of tragedy there aren't winners and losers, friends and enemies, or even victims and heroes.  In the end, there are only survivors.ry a sense of reality and a humanity that wouldn't have been possible outside of comics.  The perfect marriage of words and pictures always threatened to be, but all too infequently aspires to, blooms here, as Spiegelman shows that sometimes in the face of tragedy there aren't winners and losers, friends and enemies, or even victims and heroes.  In the end, there are only survivors.	2002-12-03
US	52986477	R3H9Y88C79LJTH	0374520968	111337252	The Crystal World	Books	5	43	50	N	N	It's barely science-fiction but who cares?	Even by the most basic definition of \\"science-fiction\\" this book barely makes the cut . . . it doesn't really take place in the future, doesn't feature new technology, doesn't try to rewrite the laws of physics, you can even understand it without a degree in higher mathematics.  Ballard's always been too concerned with the psychological and what lies inside the human heart to be a real SF writer but in the end, it's the story itself that counts, whatever genre label you want to slap onto it.  What makes this book so effective is the calm contrast of the utterly unfathomable with the completely normal.  Dr Sanders receives a letter from friends in a part of Africa saying really weird stuff about everything turning to crystal . . . curious, he travels there and finds that there weren't speaking metaphorically . . . everything, trees and all, are slowly being converted to crystal, and there's mounting evidence that the rest of the world is going to soon follow suit.  Against this backdrop Ballard lets Sanders attempt to make some sense of what's going on.  The unwaveringly calm tone of the novel only accents the subtle creepiness of the whole affair and every time you think Ballard's run out of ways to describe crystals and jewels, he figures out yet another one.  Symbolism and imagery run amok in this story, there's definitely some sort of quasi-religious (or at least good/evil) aspect to all the crystalization going on but I'll be darned if I can figure it out.  Which is another good thing about the book, unlike most SF writers Ballard doesn't take the conceit that everything we encounter in this Universe we can understand and while possible explanations for what's happening abound (most of which don't make any sense anyway) there's never a definitive reason given, so at the end of the book you're left with a lot of questions, but the good kind, the kind that make you think.  Thus readers expecting neat and tidy endings are advised that will be disappointed if they go into this book with that sort of attitude.  In the end it's Ballard's realistic tone set against fantastic events and his ability to draw the reader into his world and make it come alive (even while the world itself is fossilizing) that causes the book to linger in your mind.  His haunting depiction of a crystal world won't be something you'll easily forget.o into this book with that sort of attitude.  In the end it's Ballard's realistic tone set against fantastic events and his ability to draw the reader into his world and make it come alive (even while the world itself is fossilizing) that causes the book to linger in your mind.  His haunting depiction of a crystal world won't be something you'll easily forget.	2002-11-28
US	52986477	R26QXOJVRAGGPA	061813171X	251907750	The Last Voyage of Somebody the Sailor	Books	5	4	5	N	N	The Arabian night that never was	I'm still not quite sure to think of this book, having now finished it.  I enjoyed it but I don't know how I'm going to think of it six months from now, if at all.  It's an interestingly told tale, using the voyages of Sinbad to frame the story of a middle aged man's life in the present day . . . and I liked the ruminations on growing up and getting older (and older) and the Arabian setting, accurate or not, was certainly entertaining at least.  For all its length the book is actually very tightly written, the voyages and interludes remaining pretty close to the point and with very few actual digressions, the plot falls apart and comes together neatly (as neat as it gets) and unfolds at nearly the right pace.  Still, this does feel a bit like the work of a craftsman and not the work of someone really pushing . . . the prose although well written doesn't leap out at me except at certain moments and the story very rarely engaged me emotionally, the main character Simon was fairly three dimensional and Sinbad is displayed warts and all but everyone else was basically there to move the plot forward . . . I guess I'm comparing this to the Tidewater Tales, which why that book was frustrating at times because it was all over the place and rambled every other page, there was a sense of exuberance to it that I found myself responding to.  Here I watch all of Barth's literary tricks and don't find myself that moved at all.  The early scenes are probably the best, showing Simon's young life and a time long gone and some of the later Arabian voyage scenes are fun and the whole story is well constructed as a piece, his mediations on growing old alternate between humor and resignation, it's populated with loads of interesting set pieces and never fails to be anything less than interesting . . . and yet there's something missing here that I can't put my finger on, a quality that I know is in the other books of his that I've read.  What it is, I really couldn't tell you.  Though I do think it's a telling sign that the most riveting sections are the sparsest (the beginning and the end, in particular).  I do recommend this though even if new Barth fans should start elsewhere . . . veterans of the author will find much of what they like about him distilled into a dense but decently compact novel, the contents of which they may find both moving them and leaving them cold, sometimes on the same page.  But it's a worthy read, at any rate.do think it's a telling sign that the most riveting sections are the sparsest (the beginning and the end, in particular).  I do recommend this though even if new Barth fans should start elsewhere . . . veterans of the author will find much of what they like about him distilled into a dense but decently compact novel, the contents of which they may find both moving them and leaving them cold, sometimes on the same page.  But it's a worthy read, at any rate.	2002-11-24
US	52986477	R7VCTVMA4YTPC	080185556X	952642196	The Tidewater Tales (Maryland Paperback Bookshelf)	Books	5	16	17	N	N	What he's done is what he'll do	Of the maybe five novels of Barth I've read so far in my young life, this is probably my favorite of them all (Sot-Weed Factor does run a close second, however) if only due to the laziness factor since I didn't feel I needed a doctorate in English literature or mythology to understand everything that was going on.  All told, on the surface this is probably one of the lighter books he's done . . . it's basically about a couple (teh wife's eight months pregnant) going out sailing in Cheaspeake Bay and to pass time they start telling stories.  Except it's about everything else too and slowly the novel starts to incorporate local history, the knots of the characters' lives, mythology, plays, short stories . . . you name it.  For someone not of Barth's skill this would come off as a tedious academic exercise merely to show the author's genre bending abilities.  Once in a while it teeters toward that but manages to stay on the right side of the line.  What helps is the sheer exuburance of the book, the people all seem to like each other (not that there isn't conflict), folks are happy with their lives, never before has Barth managed to create a more three dimensional set of people or given them a more realistic world to inhabit.  It's just genuinely enjoyable to read, especially as the stories and stories-within-stories start to bounce off each othere.  There are echoes of several of Barth's earlier works here, I spotted definitely Lost in the Funhouse and Chimera (and the Sot-Weed Factor is mentioned) so for long time readers it's a bit of a revisit with old friends.  Is the book probably longer than it needs to be?  Yeah, but if long books are your problem than you shouldn't be reading Barth.  The main couple Peter and Katherine are sometimes a bit too precious for words (the constant renaming of the babies got annoying real fast) and in spurts there is just too much love going around but I can't really level that as a flaw now, can I?  Politics does threaten to creep in every so often but it's dated eighties style politics now so I didn't pay much attention to it.  Overall, it doesn't break any vibrant new ground for Barth but serves as a fine summing up of his strengths and his skills, the man can tell a decent story and he can write the pants off just about anybody (and no, those aren't the same thing) so if you want a fun \\"literary\\" novel that won't overwhelm you with all those nasty post-modern tricks those oh so erudite authors love to pull on unsuspecting readers, this might just be what you're looking for.  Just stay away if you're allergic to mythology, if you want to read Barth it's not something you can easily escape from.  But I like it anyway.n every so often but it's dated eighties style politics now so I didn't pay much attention to it.  Overall, it doesn't break any vibrant new ground for Barth but serves as a fine summing up of his strengths and his skills, the man can tell a decent story and he can write the pants off just about anybody (and no, those aren't the same thing) so if you want a fun \\"literary\\" novel that won't overwhelm you with all those nasty post-modern tricks those oh so erudite authors love to pull on unsuspecting readers, this might just be what you're looking for.  Just stay away if you're allergic to mythology, if you want to read Barth it's not something you can easily escape from.  But I like it anyway.	2002-11-01
US	52986477	R1C5VU83YSF2T2	0385240872	352902224	Lost in the Funhouse (The Anchor Literary Library)	Books	5	2	4	N	N	Stretching short stories	I will admit that there are plenty of classic masterpiece quality short stories out there, collections or otherwise.  I'm just not an avid reader of them . . . maybe I just like big hefty books, maybe I don't like switching gears every twenty pages or so . . . who knows?  But I do like Barth and this is pretty short so I figured, what the hey?  Unlike most short story collections which generally just wait until an author has enough stories to fill a book before publishing, this book was originally conceived as a group of short stories that in some form or another share the same thematic elements and much like an album, is sequenced into a proper order and should be read that way.  So he says.  Barth admits in the foreword that he doesn't normally write short stories and this was his attempt at playing with the medium, which as you might suspect gives you all kinds of hit or miss stories . . . generally the quality is pretty high and for such an academic guy, Barth's pretty funny (he can respect and make fun of mythology at the same time without seeming smug or arch, which I think is hard to do) and if the humor's on, then for the most part that can carry the nuttier moments.  Basically it's a \\"post-modern\\" sort of short story collection, so there aren't many compromises to things like form or structure or plot (one story is essentially a Moebius strip) which has the effect of making some stories feel like little more than academic exercises in form, rendering them a bit distant emotionally.  Like looking at abstract art I guess, you can admire the technique even as you can't appreciate the emotion behind it.  But when the collection works, it works great.  The title story is my personal favorite, but the last one is the best of the mythology based ones (parts of this seem like a runthrough for Chimera) and overall if you're not looking for Joycean slice of life tales or knotted little tales of suspense, but instead an attempt to bend the rules a bit, then you'll probably like this.  Not Barth's best work but it's short and the gems outweigh the duds by a good margin, so it could be worse.bably like this.  Not Barth's best work but it's short and the gems outweigh the duds by a good margin, so it could be worse.	2002-10-07
US	52986477	R3QZLMOEJ9JAQD	0385333471	163607250	God Bless You, Mr. Rosewater: A Novel	Books	5	76	80	N	N	Underrated	There was something in Vonnegut's first rush of books that is lacking in his later novels.  Although I enjoy his later books and for the life of me I can't say what this mystery quality is, whatever it is it tends to elevate even his minor books into affairs that are far more memorable than they tend to be.  Maybe because the themes and images he's using here were new to him and he was still comparitively young . . . I don't know.  It's not for me to say.  This novel has a simple premise and a simple plot and moves unsurprisingly from point A to point B and yet I still have an incredibly enjoyable experience reading it, even though I finished it basically on my lunch break over the course of maybe an hour and a half.  The premise then is that Eliot Rosewater has a lot of love to give to the world and spends most of his time doing very nice things for people who are almost pathetic enough to not deserve it, simply because he was born rich and feels he has a lot to give to the world.  A lawyer, meanwhile wishes to prove that he is insane and has it in him to make quite the case.  The book basically waffles back and forth between the lives of the various people Eliot helps, the comically depressing lives of some of these people, a little Rosewater family history and the lawyer's attempt to gather information on Eliot's apparent insanity.  All of these pieces don't cohere into the great whole that his absolute best books (like Slaughterhouse-Five) do, but the pieces themselves are great fun and Vonnegut's humanity has never been as apparent here.  It doesn't have the grim central event like the bombing of Dresden to put everything in context but somehow he manages to make the book moving and hilarious at the same time.  The plot of course is slight and it's a fairly direct book, though the ending is about as abrupt as can be (and is mentioned in a later Vonnegut book I think, fortunately I forgot about it).  This won't ever be regarded as one of his classics but even a minor work by an author working at his peak is worth another look and while the rewards here may not be as grand, they're simple and pleasant in their own small way.minor work by an author working at his peak is worth another look and while the rewards here may not be as grand, they're simple and pleasant in their own small way.	2002-09-13
US	52986477	R1QQEAYQ0YXELJ	0385491050	235045723	Surfacing	Books	5	20	25	N	N	Everything means more than one thing!	This is another one of Atwood's early novels, but is almost the flipside of The Edible Woman.  That book showcased her oft neglected sense of humor and used some none too subtle metaphors to drive the point home.  Here we have a very somber work that has so many layers of symbolism that English teachers the world over must be drooling over the thought of putting it into their classrooms.  In a nutshell, a nameless protagonist takes three friends (a married couple and her boyfriend) out into the Canadian woods to find out where her father and along the way we get heaps of character exploration, to which plot almost seems secondary.  Not that this is a bad thing, at her best Atwood dissects people like nobody's business and her character studies reveal simple characters for the complicated people they are layer by layer.  Except that doesn't much happen here.  Like the later Life Before Man, there are four people here who interact in various ways.  Also like Life Before Man, all of these people are either so self absorbed or just plain unlikeable that it's hard to care.  Unlike Life Before Man, the book is narrated totally in first person, which means you don't get as much of that car accident feeling from watching all the characters circle each other, which wound up being the most fascinating part of that book.  Here it's all filtered through the narrator, which is good and bad.  We don't get really great insights into the other characters this way, the one guy is always annoying and a total jerk, he reminds me of On the Road's Dean Moriarty with all the redeeming qualities taken out.  The other guy isn't as annoying but then he rarely talks either, so I guess it's a tossup.  That leaves the heavy character lifting to the two women, one of which is rather submissive and not too exciting.  The other is the narrator herself, who speaks in Atwood's typically brilliant prose, with all its gift for detail and metaphor.  The only problem . . . she's not too interesting either since she's cold and distant to everyone in the story and nearly impenetrable to the reader.  Atwood, to her credit, does try to find a new spin on \\"woman repressed by society trying to break free\\" which leads to a very, very strange section of the book that probably means all kinds of things I'm not smart enough to understand.  But in the end, the narrator was so distant that I really couldn't care all that much.  Still, Atwood gets points for trying really hard, and I could read her prose all day, she does make beautiful sentences seem quite effortless.  My version has a neater cover, with someone in a canoe dissolving, which I think sums up the book very well.  All in all, a worthy read and worth your time, but it's not her best.  That, alas, was still to come.her since she's cold and distant to everyone in the story and nearly impenetrable to the reader.  Atwood, to her credit, does try to find a new spin on \\"woman repressed by society trying to break free\\" which leads to a very, very strange section of the book that probably means all kinds of things I'm not smart enough to understand.  But in the end, the narrator was so distant that I really couldn't care all that much.  Still, Atwood gets points for trying really hard, and I could read her prose all day, she does make beautiful sentences seem quite effortless.  My version has a neater cover, with someone in a canoe dissolving, which I think sums up the book very well.  All in all, a worthy read and worth your time, but it's not her best.  That, alas, was still to come.	2002-09-05
US	52986477	R29YOC9EW5RFCY	0345368754	276635923	Foucault's Pendulum	Books	5	11	16	N	N	It's all part of the Plan	The first Eco book I'd read before this one was The Island of the Day Before and this one is so much better than I find it hard to believe the same person wrote both.  The reason I wasn't so fond of the previous novel was because it felt more like an academic exercise than an actual book, I had no emotional connections to the characters, who felt more like mouthpieces for the author to debate what he thought were clever ideas.  At that point I wondered what exactly people had thought so highly of this Eco guy.  Then I finally read this book.  Now I'm officially impressed.  The sense of humanity that was sorely lacking from The Island of the Day Before is here in spades, as well as the dense academic stuff to keep all those scholar types happy.  It doesn't hurt that there's an actual plot here, though be warned, the pacing is slooow[...]  Most people have noted that the book starts out quickly enough, I think it starts too slow and the beginning, with its overly descriptive writing and rather ponderous imagery, nearly stopped the book dead for me.  But once you get over the hurdle of the first few chapters and the book really starts getting into gear.  The eventual premise is that a bunch of guys who are reading manuscripts on secret societies and hidden plots decide as a joke to try and connect it all . . . and then people start believing them.  The novel successfully weaves the characters' lives into the academic threads and over the course of the many hundreds of pages the story alternates between minor character study and circus quality academic feats.  The middle portion is what most people have trouble with, once the characters start trying to invent their Plan, the book turns into a lot of historical discourse, some of which may or may not be true . . . I didn't care either way and enjoyed just watching the characters make all the connections, since I wasn't reading the book for a history lesson, no matter how well Eco knows his stuff.  But when the book dispenses finally with the bulk of the Plan and gets back into a plot of sorts, it becomes almost suspenseful and highly entertaining and by the end, even extremely moving.  Eco's writing can take some getting used to, most of the time his prose is more clever than poetic but it's highly readable for the most part and once in a while he pulls some surprisingly beautiful passages out.  The choppy structure of the novel helps too, the short chapters breaking the story up nicely and forcing the reader to digest the story is gigantic chunks of text at a time.  So I'm finally starting to see why everyone thinks this guy is so great, if you're not obsessed with fact checking all the historical details and are just along for the ride, this book can be great fun (the dialogue is fairly witty and Belbo's password made me laugh out loud for several minutes) and will read faster than you might think of a book this size.  And they say The Name of the Rose is better.  Should be fun.  But for those who like their books dense and heaped with historical detail, then this is quite recommended.nses finally with the bulk of the Plan and gets back into a plot of sorts, it becomes almost suspenseful and highly entertaining and by the end, even extremely moving.  Eco's writing can take some getting used to, most of the time his prose is more clever than poetic but it's highly readable for the most part and once in a while he pulls some surprisingly beautiful passages out.  The choppy structure of the novel helps too, the short chapters breaking the story up nicely and forcing the reader to digest the story is gigantic chunks of text at a time.  So I'm finally starting to see why everyone thinks this guy is so great, if you're not obsessed with fact checking all the historical details and are just along for the ride, this book can be great fun (the dialogue is fairly witty and Belbo's password made me laugh out loud for several minutes) and will read faster than you might think of a book this size.  And they say The Name of the Rose is better.  Should be fun.  But for those who like their books dense and heaped with historical detail, then this is quite recommended.	2002-08-19
US	52986477	R399DJDW8JCR9M	0449000419	792813592	Toward the End of Time: A Novel	Books	5	6	8	N	N	A quiet sort of novel	Although I have the Rabbit books, I haven't read them yet, so my only exposure to Updike so far has been this book and the Centaur.  After reading both books I find I really like his style, hyperdetailed and flowing at the same time, his gift for description can carry even the most static scenes along.  Which helps because this novel is all static scenes.  It's the journal of Ben Turnbull who is growing old in the year 2020, in a US which has been devastated by war with China but doesn't seem all that much different, and uses his journal to meditate on all sorts of things, from his squabbles with his wife to (apparently) pretending he's different people during different periods of history.  The charactization of Turnbull is excellent and throughout the book the reader really gets a feel for him, even as he keeps trying to slip away behind babbling about physics and being one of the guys who wrote the Gospel, his relationship with his wives and children are nicely sketched out and pull no punches, alternatively showing him in a good and bad light.  The plot can best be described as episodic, things mostly happen and Turnbull comments on them . . . though Updike does a nice job of playing with the perceptions of the reader, since the novel is entirely subjective the reader only can go by what Turnbull tells them, leading to questions to how reliable he is.  But then, since there's little rising action, the mystery makes little difference other as an academic exercise.  Still kind of fun, though.  Much like the Centaur, Updike loves to pull those oh so literary tricks of having his wife vanish, some other woman replace her with a sort of muffled explanation and then have his wife reappear with an equally muffled explanation, along with having the narrative mostly stop completely to incorporate vaguely relevant asides.  The historical asides are nice as well, though they can surprising because some of the journal entries slide right into them without warning . . . I'm not sure what the purpose of those are, though they are entertaining and different.  Perhaps Updike wanted to spice the novel up a bit.  In the end though it's both Updike's at times stunningly beautiful descriptions (especially of landscape and weather) and his detailing of Ben Turnbull and his relationships to the various people he knows that form the core of the novel and ultimately decide how much you'll enjoy it.  For the most part it's a book you experience more than decipher, one that poses more questions than it answers and when it ends, you'll find yourself a bit older (unless you read really fast, I guess) with perhaps a few more thoughts to ponder.  Not a pulse pounding page turner, but gripping in its own way nonetheless.ot sure what the purpose of those are, though they are entertaining and different.  Perhaps Updike wanted to spice the novel up a bit.  In the end though it's both Updike's at times stunningly beautiful descriptions (especially of landscape and weather) and his detailing of Ben Turnbull and his relationships to the various people he knows that form the core of the novel and ultimately decide how much you'll enjoy it.  For the most part it's a book you experience more than decipher, one that poses more questions than it answers and when it ends, you'll find yourself a bit older (unless you read really fast, I guess) with perhaps a few more thoughts to ponder.  Not a pulse pounding page turner, but gripping in its own way nonetheless.	2002-07-28
US	52986477	R3GZKGNSR6SPPE	0425165965	983349113	Timequake	Books	5	34	36	N	N	Watching the master make his rounds	Vonnegut's novels were never tightly plotted or dizzlingly complex, and ever since The Sirens of Titans there's been less and less plot.  But what we've gotten is more and more Vonnegut, which has turned out to be a good thing.  His latest and (he says) his last novel turns out to be a hodgepodge of random musings, Vonnegut family history lessons, irrelevant asides and once in a while something that touches on a story.  And somehow it works.  The premise is that Vonnegut was trying to write a novel about everyone in the world being thrown back ten years and then being forced to relive those ten years.  After it's over and time runs normally again, everyone is so used to not having free will that they don't know what to do.  But that idea didn't take off and so we have this.  Toeing the line between fact and fiction (among the best is the meeting between Vonnegut and longtime alter ego Kilgore Trout), this novel is more about Vonnegut than any other novel previously.  He talks about life in general, speaks bluntly and warmly of his family, both living and dead, all in his easily read style, which makes pages fly past as you read but somehow they still manage to stick in your head.  Yeah, it's not the innovation of Slaughterhouse-Five and the cutting cynicism of the earlier novels has been replaced by a sort of contented cynicism, as if his bitterness has settled on him like a comfortable old skin.  There's nothing new here that you couldn't find in his other novels (all of which are highly recommended), even the structure is reminiscent of Breakfast of Champions, but the presentation is what counts here and everything comes across so effortlessly that it's a joy just to watch him put the novel together, even when chapters race past that are really only barely connected strings of random thoughts.  More importantly it made me laugh outloud in more than a few spots, made me think in others and in some places was actually genuinely touching, something that's been missing in some of his latter day novels.  Overall it's a fine extension of his work and while not his best, it's a great way to get acquainted or reacquainted with an author who's done some of the finest fiction of the last fifty years.  If you're just getting to know Vonnegut, there's plenty more where this came from, and if you're coming from a long time back, you'll find plenty here that's familiar, but just as rewarding.g in some of his latter day novels.  Overall it's a fine extension of his work and while not his best, it's a great way to get acquainted or reacquainted with an author who's done some of the finest fiction of the last fifty years.  If you're just getting to know Vonnegut, there's plenty more where this came from, and if you're coming from a long time back, you'll find plenty here that's familiar, but just as rewarding.	2002-07-14
US	52986477	RYLDE355I5AEG	0679722955	72903162	The Names	Books	5	14	16	N	N	Good primer for the later stuff	Delillo would get better, but those later novels prove that these early novels weren't some kind of weird writing fluke, while the novels from this period prove that he didn't exactly come out of nowhere.  All of the classic elements of Delillo are already in place, the razor sharp prose that forms intricate and effortless rhythms where you think the words were always supposed to fall together that way, while the dialogue snaps back and forth like a live wire, even when the characters are talking languidly, and the characters themselves, both sharply defined and vaguely drawn, studies in contrasts.  The plot here has something to do with language and a cult that is killing people for reasons that might have to do with language, while &quot;risk analyist&quot; James Axton ponders being separated from his wife and what all this travelling really means.  What does it mean?  It means the reader get a very meditative novel, carried along mostly by shifting from character study to character study, from observation to observation.  For the most part it's a joy just watching everyone interact, the cult plot for the most part never becomes more than secondary and in fact most of the plot is secondary, you get more of a sense that you're peeking in on the lives of real (and very flawed) people.  If Delillo wasn't such a master at crafting prose then all of this would come across as highly boring but he can make the descriptions of even the most static scenes and the most mundane thoughts crackle with a strange kind of energy, where behind the flat events sparks a vital sort of life.  Probably more experienced than actually read, and not something for people who are expecting an exotic suspense thriller along the lines of what's currently in the movies (though it is exotic and you do get a good feel for the countries that are visited) it's for those who admire charactization and insightful prose over deft plotting . . . Delillo would sharpen all of these traits even further later on but if you want to see where it all came from and how it all started, this novel is one of the places to begin to look.ter on but if you want to see where it all came from and how it all started, this novel is one of the places to begin to look.	2002-07-07
US	52986477	R3JLSBRP0BTPZH	0380817616	905850591	Stations of the Tide	Books	5	18	20	N	Y	Science fiction as it should be	SF has never lacked for ideas, which is why it's such a good genre to read, because of that constant inventiveness.  However, unless you like to read the equivilent of a physics thesis parade, most readers want a little more \\"meat\\" to their books, if not in terms of plot, at least definitely in charactization and layers of meaning.  This book has that in spades.  I've read once that it was based on Shakespeare's \\"The Tempest\\" which having not read that play I can't confirm but I am slightly familiar with some aspects of the play and I'd say it's a good bet.  Nothing like some literary allusions to kick a good SF novel off, right?  But it gets better, because this novel is heavy on the symbolism and the thinking stuff, though it never gets in the way of the interesting world and culture that Swanwick has developed.  In a nutshell, a bureaucrat without a name comes to the world of Miranda to search for a man who barely appears, but apparently can do wonderful things.  Why is that?  Because he stole something he shouldn't.  From there the novel jackknives wonderfully, as Swanwick unravels line after line of evocative prose that eloquently brings to life this water logged and doomed world, in all its grime and grandeur.  By far the best part of reading this book is meeting the at first apparently bumbling bureaucrat and then slowly realize that not everything is what it seems and the man isn't so clueless after all.  This isn't a novel designed to be instantly pleasurable though those just going by the surface story will find much here to enjoy simply by watching the mechinations of what a lesser book could turn into a simple suspense thriller, instead there are passages to be read again, if only for the way the prose flows so brilliantly, or the levels of allergory that I'm pretty sure went over my head.  The moving ending alone, which will guarenteed leave you thinking after you put the book down, is nearly worth the price of admission.  A fast read (I finished it in like two hours, it's two hundred and fifty pages with not so small print) that never feels rushed or padded, but just the right length, if you're looking for SF with some brains that isn't totally geared toward cyberspace or relativity, this may be well worth your time.like two hours, it's two hundred and fifty pages with not so small print) that never feels rushed or padded, but just the right length, if you're looking for SF with some brains that isn't totally geared toward cyberspace or relativity, this may be well worth your time.	2002-06-13
US	52986477	R1CQF5T9A6ICCR	0140189300	964793034	Been Down So Long It Looks Like Up to Me (Penguin Twentieth-century Classics)	Books	5	8	10	N	N	Shows what might have been	Unrefined at times as it is, for a first novel this is far better than anything I could ever do.  Say what you want about Farina, but this novel swaggers with the confidence that only a young punk can have, daring you to deny that it's not the greatest novel ever written.  It's not, but it is highly entertaining and evocative of the spirit of the times (or any time, really) even if the events and characters are almost comically outlandish.  Set mostly around a college campus just as the Sixties are dawning, it tells the story of Gnossus, a man who just wants to be Exempt, who makes his way through the turbulant times by simply trying to do his own thing, whether other folks care or not.  It's a credit to Farina that he can make the reader even sympathize a little bit with a character as obtuse as Gnossus, who tends to act only for himself, treat other characters in a random fashion and spend more time as a bystander than a participant.  Yet care we do, if only because we want the things that Gnossus wants, to be apart from everything, to try and live life to its fullest while remaining above all the nasty chaos that life tends to throw at you.  This is a novel that succeeds mostly on atmosphere and sheer determination, since the plot can at best be described as ramshackle, not quite episodic but not quite directed either, it bounces from scene to scene with apparent purpose but also like a hyperactive toddler, which can be engaging or very annoying depending on your tolerance for that sort of thing.  What makes the book really work for me though is Farina's prose . . . maybe it's meaningless babble but for me it really hopes to set the mood, with odd shifts in sentence rhythm, witty asides and strange play on words, but at the same time he's utterly capable of imbuing a scene with great emotion and care and his descriptions are wonderfully different, off kilter but still able to convey vibrant images.  In the end, it's the spirit of fun that infuses this book that makes me look so fondly on it.  It's the work of someone who felt he could do anything and if he had lived, maybe he would have shown us that he could.  Either way, this book stands to show that the possibility was there.  Most people who read this probably came by way of Thomas Pynchon's recommendation (that's the way I came) but their styles aren't similar at all.  This is equally enjoyable, just for the different reasons and stands on its own as a hallmark of literature from the last half century.akes me look so fondly on it.  It's the work of someone who felt he could do anything and if he had lived, maybe he would have shown us that he could.  Either way, this book stands to show that the possibility was there.  Most people who read this probably came by way of Thomas Pynchon's recommendation (that's the way I came) but their styles aren't similar at all.  This is equally enjoyable, just for the different reasons and stands on its own as a hallmark of literature from the last half century.	2002-06-09
US	52986477	ROFNR6XRNEX0J	0140042598	303305496	On the Road (Penguin Orange Collection)	Books	5	4	5	N	N	The country as seen through a highway blur	When you read books that have been proclaimed as \\"classics\\" for as long as you've heard of the book you always go in a little suspicious . . . you don't want to simply like it because \\"everyone else does\\" and at the same time you don't want to reject it as some kind of weird knee jerk reaction. Kerouac's books is one of those polarizing novels that will have some shouting from the rooftops its masterpiece status while others will simply dismiss it as \\"That book about driving\\". Simply put though it is one of the most exhilerating reading experiences I've had in a while. Mostly episodical, it tells the most definitely autobiographical story of Sal Paradise (Jack himself) and his adventures with his circle of friends, notably Dean Moriarty (Neal Cassidy, I think) as they go about their lives after World War II, try to find stuff to do, try to settle down, fail miserably and whenever they can crisscross the country on semi-quests that never seem to amount to anything and only send them staggering back home wondering why they did it. If you read a book for plot, don't bother because there really isn't, there's mostly characters and themes here and Kerouac's astounding prose. Coming in great gulping gasps of words, you find yourself almost as breathless as the narrator as he fires off description after description of the things they see and the places they go and the people they meet, from the hitchhikers to the jazz clubs, from the cities to the brothels but mostly the road. The novel is about searching really, as a bunch of young men try to figure out what to do with their lives and resist as much as they can growing up and growing old . . . with the center of the book held down by Paradise and Moriarty, wtih the former functioning as the clear eyed prism by which we see the country and everyone else and the latter acting as the catalyst for everything, a startling whirlwind of a man that if Cassidy really was a tenth like Moriarty, then he was a wacky man indeed. Part travelogue and part social commentary, nothing I've read so accurately portrays the very feel of a country and the rush of youth when it seems like you could do whatever you darn well wanted to set out to do. Both the genius of Kerouac's prose and the ceaseless passion of his writing are the twin glues that hold this novel together and will cause it to latch firmly into your mind and refuse to let go long after the trip is finally over.travelogue and part social commentary, nothing I've read so accurately portrays the very feel of a country and the rush of youth when it seems like you could do whatever you darn well wanted to set out to do. Both the genius of Kerouac's prose and the ceaseless passion of his writing are the twin glues that hold this novel together and will cause it to latch firmly into your mind and refuse to let go long after the trip is finally over.	2002-05-19
US	52986477	R2JQ1OXLHUNWG5	0312805179	344955922	Time Storm	Books	5	9	11	N	N	So I ask again, why is this out of print?	This is a rant I haven't done in a while.  More and more I find that the best SF books out there are kept out of print for whatever reason, leaving us fans to discover these lost treasures by scouring bookstores, hardly even aware of their existences.  I found this one by sheer chance and it turns out to have been a happy find.  Dickson is mostly known for his Childe cycle (sidenote on that, it says in the author bio that after he finishes the &quot;futuristic&quot; part of said Cycle, he was going to do a bunch of historical type novels as a prelude . . . any idea whatever happened to those?) among other things but this has been unjustly forgotten.  Told in first person narration by a man named Marc, it deals with world set slightly in the future where the Earth is ravaged by shifting lines of time.  His only companions are a very friendly jaguar and a very silent girl.  That's how it starts.  Where it goes you'll never be able to guess.  Half the fun is watching Dickson constantly twist the reader's expectations inside out, taking the story in abrupt curves just when you think you know where it's going.  It's almost like a whole series of books in one, part survival tale, part metaphysical journey, part SF world building and part philosophical musing.  His characterization of Marc is key as well, here we have one of his more complex characters, Marc is basically a decent guy that you want to root for, but at the same time he's tightly focused almost to the detriment of everyone around him.  And yet he feels more real than most characters I've seen lately.  Fortunately Dickson helps by surrounding him with a multifaceted cast of characters and constnatly switching the situation.  Sometimes it may get a littel bit too metaphysical for my tastes, but at least it's far from ordinary.  People coming in thinking it's just an average time travel novel are going to be (hopefully) pleasantly surprised.  It's an underrated classic that deserves to be back in print.	2002-05-14
US	52986477	R37IYV5GKBJB4F	0553574027	670191311	Antarctica: A Novel	Books	5	19	20	N	N	Different planet familiar story still enjoyable	After his Mars trilogy, just about anything Kim Stanley Robinson was going to do was highly anticipated.  The worst thing he could have done was try and repeat his earlier trilogy just in a different setting.  To his credit, he did try something different here, but not different enough at times to really make the book come alive.  Don't get me wrong, it's a beautifully written and passionate book . . . in the acknowledgements Robinson mentions that he spent several months on the continent and the staggering amount of research shows . . . even if you've never been to Antarctica this book will make you feel like you have.  Every mountain every cold gust of wind every pure blue sky is described beautifully here and that love of the land comes through both in the writing itself and the characters.  The story, however, feels like a slight retread of the Mars trilogy, with the underlying conflict being whether to keep the land pure and unsullied or to exploit it as best we're able.  To this end several plots spin around showing the different aspects, from the tentative oil drilling to the political angles to the scientific and the people just visiting.  This crosssectioning almost defeats the book because with so many characters and views you don't get to know the characters as well as you did in the trilogy, only in several moments do they really come alive to the reader and the sparks start to fly.  So the book functions mostly like a travelogue, albeit a wonderfully written one and the passion here just about makes up for the plot, but there are times when you'll sit back and wonder if the book is missing something important.  The tension that drove the Mars trilogy is absent here, either because the setting isn't as futuristic or simply because he's trying to do more with less . . . but in the end it's entertaining and even a slight book by Robinson is miles better than anyone's best at this point.  Don't expect to get as excited by it as his earlier books have done for you, but pick it up anyway.  The pleasures it offers may not be new, but they're pleasurable nonetheless.or you, but pick it up anyway.  The pleasures it offers may not be new, but they're pleasurable nonetheless.	2002-04-26
US	52986477	R1EKQAS7WMMZHG	0380789019	511174865	Neverwhere	Books	5	158	186	N	N	Morpheus who?	Before he broke out full time into the world of novel writing Gaiman's reputation mostly rested on a relative handful number of comic books he had written, most notably (though not his best stuff) The Sandman series which showed his ability to toy with fantasy and myth to a near demented degree previously not expected for comic books.  At best it was flat out amazing, at worst it was merely pleasant.  Name recognition alone probably drove a lot of Gaiman starved Sandman fans to this book but fortunately it has much broader appeal as a contemporary fantasy.  In this tale normal guy Richard Mayhew helps a stranger and winds up falling through the cracks into &quot;London Below&quot; a quasi-mystical world that coexists and yet can't be seen by &quot;London Above&quot;.  Now Richard, with a bizarre cast of comrades has to help the lady Door figure out how killed her family and what it all means, while dodging all sorts of unpleasantness that keeps popping up.  The idea of a fantastic dark London overlapping the normal London isn't anything new (DC Comics' Hellblazer went over that concept all the time and &quot;Midnight Nation&quot; applies it to the entire US) but the key to a story like this is imagination which Gaiman has in spades.  Every texture of the London Below feels real, and almost every page has some bizarre occurance or some off kilter social commentary disguised as fantasy coming from all sides.  He has more good ideas than any man should possibly have and these ideas and his brilliant descriptions are what carry the novel, for the most part, you can read the whole thing like a travelogue and just become immersed in this strange and amazing world.  The plot doesn't hold up so well and at times requires some dubious leaps of logic to connect two points together and for some reason, even though the whole story is executed brilliantly, the emotional center feels a bit hollow, most of the characters are painted with broad strokes and while I was incredibly interested in their plights, I didn't really care as deeply as I should have.  Gaiman succeeds best when he's trying to darkly whimsical (most of the story), creepy (the scenes with Vandermar and Croup are sporadically effective, though the &quot;ruthless killers who talk like Oxford graduates&quot; has been done by everyone from Hannibal Lecter on down) or sentimental, which for the most part were the same problems with dogged the weaker Sandman stories.  But his boundless imagination carries everything even through the slower moments when it just seems like one of those useless fantasy &quot;Point A to Point B&quot; quests and the ending is absolutely pitch-perfect, even though you suspect it's coming, watching him pull it off is definitely watching a genius at work.  Gaiman fans will find this the greatest novel of all time of course (sorry, best fantasy novel is still &quot;Little, Big&quot;, folks) others not exposed to him will find this an absolutely pleasant and quick read that immerses them in a world that if not for the danger (and hey even then) most of us wouldn't mind living in.  Or at least visiting.terested in their plights, I didn't really care as deeply as I should have.  Gaiman succeeds best when he's trying to darkly whimsical (most of the story), creepy (the scenes with Vandermar and Croup are sporadically effective, though the &quot;ruthless killers who talk like Oxford graduates&quot; has been done by everyone from Hannibal Lecter on down) or sentimental, which for the most part were the same problems with dogged the weaker Sandman stories.  But his boundless imagination carries everything even through the slower moments when it just seems like one of those useless fantasy &quot;Point A to Point B&quot; quests and the ending is absolutely pitch-perfect, even though you suspect it's coming, watching him pull it off is definitely watching a genius at work.  Gaiman fans will find this the greatest novel of all time of course (sorry, best fantasy novel is still &quot;Little, Big&quot;, folks) others not exposed to him will find this an absolutely pleasant and quick read that immerses them in a world that if not for the danger (and hey even then) most of us wouldn't mind living in.  Or at least visiting.	2002-04-12
US	52986477	R3MIRSTJRDGC30	0812551613	891882719	Earth Made of Glass (Giraut)	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Good but not his best	It sounds cliched but this probably isn't the best place to start with John Barnes.  He seems to excel at smaller novels, probably because he can present the idea, write an interesting situation around it and throw in some characters and jumble the plot around and everything just works out fine because he keeps it nice and simple.  When he shoots for the more complex stuff though, he doesn't make out as well.  Case in point, this here novel . . . itself a sequel to the excellent A Million Open Doors, this makes a valiant attempt to deepen and further the scenario given in that book, and for the most part succeeds.  Barnes has to be given credit for ambition, because what he attempts here is to give a in depth look at manufactured cultures and deep seated hatreds and tries to find solutions.  However his ambition tends to outstrip him here, unfortunately.  He brings back the Giraut and Margaret from the first book, now married and when the book starts their marriage is beginning to fall apart.  Again, he gets credit for broaching the subject in SF, a place generally not associated with such things . . . but he tends to beat the subject to death.  In the beginning of the book every scene they have together turns into childish bickering and Margaret is even worse . . . I don't remember her that clearly from the first book but I don't remember her being this annoying, she acts completely unreasonable, starts fights for no reason, all while a confused Giraut basically stands back and wonders, \\"What did I do?\\" . . . which is the same question the reader has.  Instead of making the reader sympathetic to their marriage, you're left wondering halfway through the book why he just doesn't give her the heave-ho (her \\"revelation\\" is blatantly to anyone even remotely paying attention and when it's revealed you want to shout to Giraut \\"What are you, blind?\\" especially since hints are dropped like every other page).  So that drags the book down a little simply because the main characters act immature but Barnes' depiction of two cultures who think they are the Universe's gift to everything is absolutely fascinating, his world building skills are in full effect and the conflicts are detailed realistically . . . it does look pretty hopeless.  It's so hopeless that Barnes nearly writes himself into a corner and winds up resorting to having the Maya create a quasi-mystical \\"prophet\\" (and that really comes out of nowhere) who preaches love and gets people to listen mostly because he's, uh, a quasi-mystical prophet.  However, unlike a lot of others who feel the ending is too downbeat, I felt it was completely realistic given the circumstances and about the only logical outcome, anything else would have required the book to be even longer (and nearly multi-generational) or devolving into a \\"deus ex machina\\" solution.  The way it turns out is sobering, but I give him credit for going with the not so happy ending (Scottish SF writer Iain Banks, also highly recommended, has a habit of doing the same thing), even if it does come off as rushed.  Still can't see why Giraut keeps Margaret around though.  Maybe another sequel will explain that one.  All told, it's entertaining, if not exactly cheerful reading and shouldn't be your first choice, go with one of his more compact works and if those thrill you, head here next.  Just don't prepare to be as delighted, even if you have to give him a lot of credit for trying.acters act immature but Barnes' depiction of two cultures who think they are the Universe's gift to everything is absolutely fascinating, his world building skills are in full effect and the conflicts are detailed realistically . . . it does look pretty hopeless.  It's so hopeless that Barnes nearly writes himself into a corner and winds up resorting to having the Maya create a quasi-mystical \\"prophet\\" (and that really comes out of nowhere) who preaches love and gets people to listen mostly because he's, uh, a quasi-mystical prophet.  However, unlike a lot of others who feel the ending is too downbeat, I felt it was completely realistic given the circumstances and about the only logical outcome, anything else would have required the book to be even longer (and nearly multi-generational) or devolving into a \\"deus ex machina\\" solution.  The way it turns out is sobering, but I give him credit for going with the not so happy ending (Scottish SF writer Iain Banks, also highly recommended, has a habit of doing the same thing), even if it does come off as rushed.  Still can't see why Giraut keeps Margaret around though.  Maybe another sequel will explain that one.  All told, it's entertaining, if not exactly cheerful reading and shouldn't be your first choice, go with one of his more compact works and if those thrill you, head here next.  Just don't prepare to be as delighted, even if you have to give him a lot of credit for trying.	2002-03-28
US	52986477	R3OI00F0M4ER2W	0385333501	121956424	Welcome to the Monkey House: A Collection of Short Works	Books	5	92	99	N	N	As essential as the novels	I'm not a huge fan of short story collections since I'd much rather sit through a single story throughout all those pages instead of a series of tales that at best tend to be hit or miss and wildly inconsistent.  However there are some writers that I will acknowledge are masters of the form, Theodore Sturgeon, Ray Bradbury and of course Kurt Vonnegut (that's not even counting the &quot;classic&quot; short story masters who I haven't read) who's novels sometimes come across as longish short stories anyway.  Most of these stories were written early in his career, in the fifties or sixties and it looks like someone actually made an attempt to sequence them instead of just dumping them in chronoloogical order, thus there's a bit of a procession as you move along, finally ending with the darkly hopeful 'Tomorrow and Tomorrow and Tomorrow&quot;.  Along the way you'll find that the quality is quite high and many of these are very much vintage Vonnegut.  He mixes around with genres and so SF exercises such as &quot;Harrison Bergeron&quot; and &quot;Welcome to the Monkey House&quot; (classics both) sit comfortably next to more typical stories such as &quot;Manned Missiles&quot; (which gets my vote for most effective story in the collection and surprised me the most).  There aren't really any clunkers here, some are simpler than others and will pass you by without much impact, but the majority all have some moment or theme to recommend them as keepers and give you something to think about long after you've finished them.  Sure, most of the stories were written in a different time but regardless of the SF or the Cold War backdrop or whatever, these are essentially timeless and deserved to be read again and again.	2002-03-18
US	52986477	R1VQR26NVQWH9N	0380014033	772010642	Lord of Light	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Brilliant idea AND execution	There are times when reading a book you see that genius has so utterly struck the writer that all you can do it sit back and awe and marvel at how effortless it all seems.  Those books unfortunately don't come often enough.  This is definitely one of them.  Some novels have great ideas but don't do anything with them while others have beautiful and brilliant writing but doesn't have the plot and depth of charactization to back it up and launch it into the truly masterful.  Lord of Light has both.  In spades.  No kidding.  The concept is so intrinsically SF but at the same time so radically different that fans of fantasy, world literature and who knows what else can sit down and enjoy it.  Like I said, the concept is a fairly simple one at its heart: a bunch of people colonize a planet and eventually use their technology to essentially act like gods.  In this case they set themselves up as the Hindu pantheon and through science give themselves powers that sure as heck seem like magic and divine abilities, switch bodies (reincarnation of course) and basically lord over everyone over the centuries.  Except for one person, the one called Buddha among other things but who mostly wants to be called Sam.  His quest to lay the gods low makes up the center of the book but the story isn't linear at all, which is probably where most people get stuck.  Most of the story is told in flashback and they tend to jump all around, with a few clues to give the reader any idea where they might be.  Some people might find this annoying, those people probably don't like books that make them think.  The joy of this novel is watching all the threads unfurl slowly like petals on a flower, telling bits of the story until just when you think everything is known, Zelazny ties it all up.  Just about everything about this book is perfect, from the use of the gods, to the personalities, to the sometimes achingly beautiful descriptions that stop just short of being overdetailed, to the rousing battle scenes, this is a book lesser writers would have insisted on making a bombastic bloated trilogy but he packs all the power and pathos of the concept into barely three hundred pages.  Almost universally recognized as a masterpiece you owe it to yourself to at least try and discover this book.  Once you're inside the rewards never seem to stop coming.le scenes, this is a book lesser writers would have insisted on making a bombastic bloated trilogy but he packs all the power and pathos of the concept into barely three hundred pages.  Almost universally recognized as a masterpiece you owe it to yourself to at least try and discover this book.  Once you're inside the rewards never seem to stop coming.	2002-03-15
US	52986477	R1ZDK8UTDLFAJK	0156471140	335061524	The Kindness of Women	Books	5	22	22	N	N	The biography as fiction	Empire of the Sun was one of the best examples of putting your life up to a critical analysis and staring unflinchingly at it . . . Ballard's portrayal of himself during World War II as a child has to rank as one of the more honest (even when it's not so flattering) attempts at a self-charactization that I can really only compare to Norman Mailer's Armies of the Night.  Here he continues his own story, using the first person this time out and extending the narrative past World War II and nearly into his present.  The beginning is a bit off for those who have read Empire of the Sun since some of the details gone over don't seem to coincide with the events we learned in the previous book but he manages to again evoke its' dreamlike qualities.  From there it's mostly episodic and carried by Ballard's keen eye for events and gift for description, through his eyes the sixties and beyond become almost a shared hallucination, something that you wake up from and you're not sure if it really happened or not.  There's no overarching narrative to the book, though his quest to overcome the wounds that were opened by his time in the internment camp is a running theme that partly gets resolved in the end, during the time of the making of the Empire of the Sun movie.  Still, like real life there are jagged loose ends, lost characters and a graceful melancholy that holds everything together well.  Perhaps the only complaint are the sex scenes, far from offensive, they seem almost cold and sterile, like Ballard was sitting there taking notes during the acts themselves, which could be the point for all I know.  Because it covers so much more time it doesn't have the searing focus that the previous novel did, but the wide variety of events and times are engaging in their own right and just when you think Ballard has exhausted his ability to put a new spin on describing things, he pulls another effortless phrase out that can't help but stick in your head.  A book you probably have to experience more than read, those coming out of Empire of the Sun wanting to see more will probably come away satisfied.xperience more than read, those coming out of Empire of the Sun wanting to see more will probably come away satisfied.	2002-02-18
US	52986477	R2WBTZARMC11B6	0671648772	8576267	Empire of the Sun	Books	5	65	68	N	N	Not what you expect	This is an account of JG Ballard's childhood in Shanghai during World War II when he was imprisoned in an internment camp away from his parents but just knowing that alone tells you nothing about the book.  Yes, it takes place in WWII but that's almost irrelevant to the book, Jim is barely aware of the war as far as most people would conceive it and the entire war seems to take place mostly on the periphery . . . if it doesn't affect him directly than he doesn't care.  On one level this is a nicely detailed account of life in Shanghai, especially in the beginning.  Ballard is a good enough writer that he can describe such mundane events with enough flair that they take on another ambiance entirely.  This becomes more pronounced as Jim winds deeper into the war itself, with the book becoming almost dream like in its quality.  A lot of people I think object to the actions of Jim, which are very much what we don't expect.  He's fairly self centered and makes a lot of weird rationalizations but I had no trouble understanding his POV, even if I didn't totally agree with it.  He's a kid caught in something he can barely understand, so he has to break it down into something he can understand and sometimes that means making it a game and sometimes that means doing some things that most of us would interpret as cruel.  That was the most interesting part of the novel for me, watching Jim trying to cope with the events around him, deal with the fact that he can barely remember his parents, with the fact that the only life he can really remember after a while are in the camp itself.  With everything filtered through his perceptions the reader has to evaluate for him or herself what exactly the truth is . . . Jim's perception of some characters can change over and over, or maybe not even agree with what the character is doing, but that's because he's looking at it through the eyes of a child and by way of Jim, so is the reader as well.  The white flash of the atom bomb that comes toward the end isn't even a climax, it's just another strange event in a war where everything strange is normal and for Jim it doesn't even signify the end of the war, for him the war never really seems to end.  Haunting in its grim depiction of reality, this stands as one of the better books to come out about WWII simply for its personal perspective.s toward the end isn't even a climax, it's just another strange event in a war where everything strange is normal and for Jim it doesn't even signify the end of the war, for him the war never really seems to end.  Haunting in its grim depiction of reality, this stands as one of the better books to come out about WWII simply for its personal perspective.	2002-02-04
US	52986477	RU9LKQLF8BS4M	0380789604	533904992	Driving Blind	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Vintage Bradbury	As with most short story collections the quality varies here a little bit but the great thing is that it doesn't vary all that much.  Most of the stories here are prime Bradbury, part nostalgia, part fantastic but possessing a charm that nobody else can really quite emulate.  Science fiction fans won't find much here to please them if that's all they're looking for but everyone else should be able to find something to satisify them.  The stories ran the gamut from funny to senimental to slightly creepy to serious to just downright weird, all of them told in his by now fairly unique style.  Most of the stories read very quickly and some come off as slight because of that, like they're sketches for an idea that might have been expanded into a short story later but even the slimmest tales have something to recommend them.  For a man who should be years past his peak, this isn't bad at all and borders on excellent, many of these stories are tales you'll remember long after you've closed the book and set it aside.  A fine addition to his canon and the best example that the truly great writers never stop producing fine stuff.	2002-01-25
US	52986477	R13YTB5G6DIQS8	0312866097	561606943	Icehenge	Books	5	24	25	N	N	Great out of the starting gate	Kim Stanley Robinson debuted with this book and The Wild Shore practically in the same year, something that doesn't happen too often.  Even rarer, it turns out that both book are key works of the authors and deserved to be read years after they were first published.  The Wild Shore gets most of the glory because it's slightly better and part of a trilogy (all three of which are highly recommended) and also because it's less \\"SFish\\" than Icehenge.  Icehenge has a similar structure as Asimov's The Gods Themselves in that the book is made of three distinct pieces with three distinct characters who all further the plot without ever meeting . . . sort of.  There is some crossing of stories here, but not directly, but Robinson's charactizations are what shine through.  All of the parts are written in the first person and each character has an individual voice, uniquely showing different views of a future society where life is good but not great, where you can live for hundreds of years but forget about the place where you were born.  The plot partially concerns some monoliths (shades of 2001!) being found on Pluto, with the pervading theory that they were built by humans . . . the only question is by who and why.  The first story sets up everything else and might give clues into what happened but the other two sections are what deal with the formations proper.  The first guy has one theory, his great-grandson years later has a totally different one and both go about proving them.  In the end though it's impossible to say and this is a book that will have you considering a lot of aspects of the plot long after you've put it done.  Robinson didn't take the easy way out and give a neatly pat ending, which some readers may not be too fond of.  But considering the themes of the book, of memory loss and forgetting the past, it fits in perfectly.  It's not his best book but if you've enjoyed anything else he's written there's no reason why you shouldn't give this a shot.	2002-01-21
US	52986477	R2BJ4HYRB65H5Q	0020259905	806416470	The Voyage of the Space Beagle	Books	5	28	28	N	N	A rousing ride	One of Van Vogt's most loved books, I have to admit that there was a certain thrill in here that was lacking in &quot;The World of Null-A&quot; probably because it's much less based in an unfamiliar philosophy, but at the same time it's much less complex.  Still for straightforward authentic Golden Age SF it doesn't get much better than this.  Basically you have four stories (it's all treated as one story but it's four separate situations) of the crew of the Space Beagle as they explore the vast reaches of space.  Each is a little mini-adventure, two involve horrific aliens, one is a tad dopey and the last involves an alien so big that only in the Golden Age could you get away with it.  Beyond the ideas the stories themselves are exciting, even if in the beginning the crew comes off as a bunch of total idiots (twice they bring the alien onto the ship! twice!) and they never really stop being self centered.  Much of the book is seen through the eyes of Grosvenor, the new guy with the new science of Nexialism which is apparently a way to integrate all the sciences, among other things . . . unfortunately this means that the stories fall into a pattern where everyone has the wrong solutions to everything because they are self centered and can't see past their own disciplines until Grosvenor basically forcefeeds them the solution.  But, as typical for novels from this period, you don't read them for the staggering charactizations but the ideas and Van Vogt writes like a madman here, cramming so many fanciful into each chapter and making you believe them that you find yourself devouring the book more than reading it, especially the bits with the aliens (the second alien was an obvious influence on the movie Alien, right down to it picking people off in the ship) which are genuinely frightening . . . it's a credit to Van Vogt that he can write the scenes from the aliens POV convincingly, sometimes more convincingly than the people.  It may or may not be his best book, but it definitely ranks as one of the few all out fun classics from the Golden Age of SF.  Sadly it's only available used these days but even then a little searching can probably dig it up.it definitely ranks as one of the few all out fun classics from the Golden Age of SF.  Sadly it's only available used these days but even then a little searching can probably dig it up.	2002-01-19
US	52986477	R19XA8E2415FZ2	0898041538	334606286	The World of Null-A	Books	5	27	32	N	N	Classic in its time	If this book was released today I don't think it would be as critically praised as it has been and regarded as an outright classic of Golden Age SF.  It's not that standards were lower back then, but the audience was different and looking for a different type of story, one that audiences today probably aren't as interested in.  Of course, keeping in mind that, all nostalgia aside, most of the Golden Age SF, except for a handful of notable authors was mostly derivative crap, this book looks pretty good indeed.  It's original, for the most part it's readable and often times fairly exciting.  What we have here is a hero who has no idea who he really is fighting against an enemy and being manipulated every time he turns around.  Like most novels of the period, Van Vogt wasn't about to let something as simple as plot get in the way of a good story and it shows.  The book is supposed to be based around the concept of General Semantics which I admittedly know nothing about and didn't learn much from the book itself . . . the concept is never really fully explained except for general asides and most of the stuff &quot;fully null-A people&quot; would do strikes me as mostly common sense (attack an army at night? it takes a logical system of thought to figure that out) so I suspect there's more to it than Van Vogt shows us.  The best way to read this book is as quickly as possible, preferably in one sitting . . . plots shift gears and scenes change so quickly and ideas are tossed out with such uncaring glee that when you're immersed in the story, it's great fun.  But when you take a step back to think about it, you're not so pleased.  But the ideas and the feelings are what make this story work and explains why people still read it fifty some odd years after its publication . . . it's certainly not for the sophisticated writing or the depth of charactization but simply because it's a fun book that at best will get you interested in General Semantics and at worst will simply entertain you.ntertain you.	2002-01-17
US	52986477	R39ECJWUTXEP2N	0385240880	539488056	The Sot-Weed Factor	Books	5	86	92	N	N	I'll never look at an eggplant the same way again	If you've read the book, then you know exactly what I'm talking about and are probably doubled over in laughter just at the mention of it . . . if you haven't, well there's just one more reason to start reading this.  Widely considered Barth's best novel (I'm very much a novice with him, this being only my second book so I'm no man to judge) I can easily see why it deserves such a status.  A parody of historical novels, Barth writes the story in the style of that time so it seems like all those books your teachers made you read in high school, but better.  The book is massive and concerns the various adventures of would-be poet Ebenezer Cooke, writer of the poem &quot;The Sot-Weed Factor&quot; as he becomes involved, willingly or otherwise, in more situations than any man should reasonably have to undertake.  An attempts to summarize the plot are useless, it's too sprawling, people who want instant gratification will be at a loss here, this is a book you have to absorb over the course of a few days and get used to the style before it sinks in just how much fun it is.  The characters play everything seriously, making the jokes (and there are plenty, with the funniest of a vulgar nature and often involving the story of Captain John Smith of Pocohantus fame) come off as utterly hilarious, but at the same time Barth manages to make you care just a little bit about them, as quirky as they are, they still come across as typically flawed human beings.  Probably the best thing about the book is its sheer unpredictability, not shackled by the morals of the 16th century, anything and everything does happen, nobody is what they seem and situations shift gears so rapidly that it'll make your head spin even as you can't stop laughing.  A truimph on nearly every level, this is something a lesser writer would have only managed to turn into a stale stylistic genre exercise, something to wow the kids in the creative writing workshop . . . what Barth creates here is something lasting and no matter what century it was written in or evokes, will probably wind up being timeless.and no matter what century it was written in or evokes, will probably wind up being timeless.	2002-01-15
US	52986477	R3G3S5NGON1O3L	0385491077	881837375	Bodily Harm	Books	5	7	13	N	N	Happiness and cheer abound	Sure it does.  It is very much not a good idea for a reader to attempt to psychoanalyze an author through their own works, because not only will you probably come to the wrong conclusions, but the ones you do come up with will probably creep you out just a little bit.  To whit: Margaret Atwood probably is a delightfully cheery woman who quite enjoys life and all she encounters . . . however that sure doesn't come across in her novels.  In her best novels the misery her characters suffer often eventually dovetails into a gloriously insightful epiphany of sorts.  And in other cases you often feel like just guilty reading the book, after a while you get the impression by continuing to read you're furthering the character's Job-like troubles.  Life Before Man was a bit of a downer but at least it was spread over four people . . . here poor Rennie has to take it all on the chin herself.  Young woman journalist Rennie is sent to a Caribbean island to write a vacation type story . . . what happens is quite simply the vacation from hell.  There's really no other way to put it.  Nobody is what they seem, Rennie is totally out of place and things start getting very serious before anyone knows what's going on.  However if that's all there was to the book then it would simply be a matter of plodding on to see what Ms Atwood is going to do next to poor Rennie.  To save the story, Atwood details Rennie's crumbling relationship with her boyfriend, as well as her relationships with both her family and others . . . these quasi-flashbacks (some are given as monologues, though I'm not sure who she's talking to) are interspersed throughout the novel and are where the story truly shines.  When she wants to Atwood can get right to the heart of a person and choose the exact right words to get the emotions right.  The ending alone is one of the best examples of a stark prose style I've ever seen.  So ignore the quasi-political intrigue plot and instead focus on a masterful character study by one of the few authors who know how to get such things right.  The feelings she reveals may be painful but you can't argue that she's all that far off.by one of the few authors who know how to get such things right.  The feelings she reveals may be painful but you can't argue that she's all that far off.	2001-12-30
US	52986477	RHGUV2TANNSU0	0385491069	153232466	The Edible Woman	Books	5	29	34	N	N	Fun with the world of metaphor	I've got a few Atwood books and this is by far the oldest one, so if it's not her writing debut (as opposed to poetry, which I think she did as well) it's pretty close and I have to say that I was pretty impressed with how strong her narrative voice was and how confident the book feels.  Reading it you get a sense that the author knows exactly what she's doing and how to go about it.  That sense makes the book that much more fun to read, even if it's not going to be recognized as one of her absolute masterpieces.  The story concerns a woman named Marian, presumably in her mid-twenties, who after getting engaged starts to lose her desire to eat most kinds of food.  But even that description is a tad misleading because the eating aspect doesn't even come into play until almost halfway through the book.  Indeed those looking for a feminist version of &quot;Thinner&quot; should probably go the other way right now.  Instead it's an examination of a woman's role in both society and marriage and that gives the story more weight, balancing the often silly and humorous situations Marian finds herself in.  It's definitely the lightest book I've read by Atwood, it's hard to believe this is the same woman who did the ultra-depressing Life Before Man.  But the main focus isn't even on Marian's quasi-eating disorder but on her interactions with her fiancee, her roommate (the subplot with her wanting a baby is absolutely hilarious in a darkly absurd way) and an odd graduate student she meets while out doing a survey for her job.  That graduate student and his monologues was my favorite part of the chapter and probably represents Atwood's poke at the academic world, but definitely shows off her gift for words.  But be on the look out for metaphors, just about everything means something else it seems, even the switch from first to third person struck me as odd until I realized even that represented something.  In the end the metaphors get stretched a bit too far and the only truly silly moment is right at the end.  But it's immensely enjoyable for an Atwood novel and one of the few that you'll find yourself laughing more than feeling glad you aren't the characters.illy moment is right at the end.  But it's immensely enjoyable for an Atwood novel and one of the few that you'll find yourself laughing more than feeling glad you aren't the characters.	2001-12-27
US	52986477	R2O0SVZJ98GB8X	0156278065	252798659	Eden (Helen & Kurt Wolff Book)	Books	5	15	17	N	N	Fun beyond Solaris	I've only read three books by Lem counting this one and while nothing so far has bypassed Solaris as his absolute masterpiece, for me it's a step up from the strangely dense Fiasco.  As in those two books the theme here is the one that Lem seems to count as his favorite, that we should not assume that because we are smart and can get into space and across stars, that we can automatically &quot;understand&quot; any alien life that we come across, or even start to fit what we see into established human preconceptions.  Fortunately this is an excellent theme to explore and one rarely dealt with in SF, so Lem easily finds new wrinkles to explore every time he writes about it, even if the conclusions wind up being nearly the same every time.  In this novel, six explorers crashland on the planet Eden and while trying to fix their spaceship and get off they find that the planet is home to a civilization that seems to make absolutely no sense.  They keep coming across odd artifacts, a strange factory, a graveyard, weird villages, all of which they try to quantify through human theories that they wind up discarding anyway because they can't hope to explain what they're seeing.  Most of the book is just strange, unexplainable event piled on strange unexplainable event . . . perhaps because I read it in spurts this approach never becomes wearying, or maybe it's the constant combinations of interactions between the six characters, three of which comes across as fully rounded human beings (The Captain, the Doctor and the Engineer, the only one who seems to have a proper name, oddly enough) while the Chemist, the Physicist and the Cyberneticist mostly just take up space and are there for the main three to argue with, that keeps the plot moving along and engaging.  In the end there are explanations of a sort, but they seem anticlimatic and feel a bit like a cop out, a concession to readers not really prepared for the honest answer that maybe there really is no way to understand something utterly alien.  All told, Lem's imagination and presentation of his argument is impressive and mostly entertaining, even if you have to read Solaris to get a better idea of what he's trying to say.mething utterly alien.  All told, Lem's imagination and presentation of his argument is impressive and mostly entertaining, even if you have to read Solaris to get a better idea of what he's trying to say.	2001-12-21
US	52986477	R3CRJLK1LGLI8G	0679736662	125782880	The Three Stigmata of Palmer Eldritch	Books	5	119	131	N	N	A head trip at times, but worth the effort	Sporting one of the neatest titles in all of literature, SF or otherwise, this novel is considered one of Dick's handful of absolute masterpieces, written during his peak in the sixties.  People who saw Blade Runner, went and read &quot;Do Androids Dream of Electric Sheep?&quot; and liked it enough to want to explore Dick further and came here (remove the seeing Blade Runner part and that's me) may find this book a decidely odd experience.  Not outwardly psychedelic in nature but certainly dealing with altered states of conscious and the nature of reality versus our perception of it . . . if you find yourself reading it and think you're missing something, trust me you aren't alone.  Probably no one other than Dick knew exactly everything that is going on in here but for the rest of us it's an interesting dilemma trying to discern his exact meaning, or our best interpretation.  In the future, the earth is unbearably warm, people are being drafted to be sent to dreary colonies and Can-D is the drug of the moment, a substance which allows people to &quot;translate&quot; into layouts based on a doll called Perky Pat and basically experience a life that isn't theirs.  Then Palmer Eldrich returns from outside the solar system with his new drug Chew-D which he claims will deliver immortality and show the nature of God . . . and then things get funny.  Dick's vision of a future world is absolutely fascinating and for us low brow folks who don't get all the wacky symbolism, makes the book worth it simply for his depiction of an overheated earth, the boring spiritual desolation of the Mars colonies, the pre-cogs who determine the latest fashions, it all feels bleak and despairing but there's a sense of humor lurking in the wings and a vague feeling that something larger is going on.  It starts to lose coherency toward the end as the reader begins to question reality, especially what is the nature of Palmer Eldrich (great name, by the way) and eventually you find your head starting to hurt just a bit.  And it's not that bad a feeling, as it turns out.  PKD books are more experienced than described and nothing here is going to really be able to convey the texture of his novels, you just have to read it for yourself.  It's not perfect but it's both thought provoking and entertaining on vastly different levels and so in that sense comes highly recommended.rting to hurt just a bit.  And it's not that bad a feeling, as it turns out.  PKD books are more experienced than described and nothing here is going to really be able to convey the texture of his novels, you just have to read it for yourself.  It's not perfect but it's both thought provoking and entertaining on vastly different levels and so in that sense comes highly recommended.	2001-12-10
US	52986477	RBUS4O7279UF2	0553213806	167266492	The Dubliners	Books	5	204	219	N	N	This Joyce guy might amount to something	I wish I could stand up here and make some pretentious claim that this is the &quot;greatest short story collection of all time!&quot; or something along those lines but I generally don't read short stories or short story collections.  But I like James Joyce and so figured what the heck, I made it through Ulysses, this should be a cakewalk.  So I read it and if you were wowed by Ulysses then this should reconfirm Joyce's genius for you and that he could do other writing besides that wacky postmodern stuff (before there really was a postmodern).  If you're not a Joyce fan most of these (other than a notable handful) probably won't convert you.  In essence these are Joyce's portraits of the people of Dublin and the city itself, most of these stories are character sketches, mostly following a few people around as they go about their lives.  They were written over a period of time so the quality does vary a bit, the first few stories I don't find anything special but by the time you get to around &quot;Two Gallants&quot; the quality takes a sharp spike upward and stays there right until the end.  The prose is fairly easy to follow, the worst part is deciphering all the Irish names and slang that are used liberally for obvious reasons . . . if anything it showed me how two cultures who technically speak the language can sound so different.  The stories run the gamut of the &quot;slice of life&quot; genre, if such a thing exists, showing people from all walks of life and all classes of society, showing them as realistically as Joyce could, all their fears and foibles, warts and all.  At his best he makes you live the lives of the characters and immerses you deeply into the city of Dublin, probably more than any group of short stories has ever brought a city to life.  If you're still not convinced, then take this advice, buy the book for the sake of only one story, the last story in the collection, &quot;The Dead&quot; . . . simply put it is one of the best pieces of short fiction I have ever read.  It starts off mundanely enough at a party but by the time the characters leave the party and go back to their hotel the writing becomes something almost otherworldly and Joyce starts writing some of the most evocative prose ever put on paper.  If the last few pages don't send chills down your spine, then you must be dead.  That's the only explanation.  After that gem, everything else is just icing on the cake.  Simply put, everyone should read &quot;The Dead&quot; and if you're the type of person whose fancy shall be struck by the rest of the stories here, so much the better.fiction I have ever read.  It starts off mundanely enough at a party but by the time the characters leave the party and go back to their hotel the writing becomes something almost otherworldly and Joyce starts writing some of the most evocative prose ever put on paper.  If the last few pages don't send chills down your spine, then you must be dead.  That's the only explanation.  After that gem, everything else is just icing on the cake.  Simply put, everyone should read &quot;The Dead&quot; and if you're the type of person whose fancy shall be struck by the rest of the stories here, so much the better.	2001-12-06
US	52986477	R9GSVC1VZU1L3	0345419677	930407126	To Your Scattered Bodies Go (Riverworld Saga, Book 1)	Books	5	10	14	N	N	Certainly close to a classic	Something you have a book that has such an amazing concept that the entire book can be carried on just that one concept, regardless of how stirring the plot is or how deep the characters are or how exciting the prose is.  With the concept that Farmer introduces in this novel he sure comes darn close but he really needed just a little extra to boost this novel into &quot;true classic&quot; status.  What's the concept?  Basically every human that has ever lived wakes up alongside a seemingly endless river on some strange planet for no apparent reason to basically do what people do.  Food and even clothing is provided for, but really it's just a big question mark.  Enter famous explorer Richard Burton who very quickly decides that he must penetrate the center of this mystery and try to find exactly what this is all about.  Along the way he meets bunches of people from different times, some famous some not, gets involved in a series of adventures and sort of figures it out.  But not quite.  Burton is probably the best character in the book in the sense that he's supposed to the hero and yet there's quite a few reasons not to like him (he's a bit racist and a tad sexist, among other things . . .) which is good because being a historical character it shows Farmer was at least doing some research.  The other characters don't make out so well and being that most of them seem to drop out halfway through the book, you really don't miss them since the focus really is squarely on Burton (the alien in particular seems to have just been included because he could make important revelations and thus it would make sense because he's an advanced alien and thus knows everything . . . not explained why he was resurrected though . . . also Peter Frigate mostly cries unless he needs to fight and then he kills with reckless abandon, er, mood swing anyone?) and as long as it stays there you can overlook things like that.  Farmer has great fun with the concept and frustratingly gives us just a taste of the Riverworld, bypassing entire communities in a sentence that he could have spent a whole chapter on.  The plot moves swiftly, with the usual absurd coincidences that only occur to you after you stop reading because he keeps the story moving so fast there's no time to think, which is good.  Sometimes it's a mite too swiftly, subplots start but don't go anywhere (there's hints of romance that never turns into anything) and imminent revelations either are ignored or turn out to be nothing special.  But the book is way too short and the ending is basically just a &quot;To Be Continued&quot; that reveals a bunch of stuff that may or may not be true.  In the end it feels like the world's longest prologue and while enormously entertaining as such, doesn't leave you with a whole lot to take away from the book.  Still the concept is one of the greatest in SF and just watching Farmer pull it off and lay down the foundation for the rest of the series is great fun.  But his inability to really turn the book into a standalone epic on its own keeps the book from achieving truly classic status.  But, like I said, it's worth a read simply for the concept itself.t a taste of the Riverworld, bypassing entire communities in a sentence that he could have spent a whole chapter on.  The plot moves swiftly, with the usual absurd coincidences that only occur to you after you stop reading because he keeps the story moving so fast there's no time to think, which is good.  Sometimes it's a mite too swiftly, subplots start but don't go anywhere (there's hints of romance that never turns into anything) and imminent revelations either are ignored or turn out to be nothing special.  But the book is way too short and the ending is basically just a &quot;To Be Continued&quot; that reveals a bunch of stuff that may or may not be true.  In the end it feels like the world's longest prologue and while enormously entertaining as such, doesn't leave you with a whole lot to take away from the book.  Still the concept is one of the greatest in SF and just watching Farmer pull it off and lay down the foundation for the rest of the series is great fun.  But his inability to really turn the book into a standalone epic on its own keeps the book from achieving truly classic status.  But, like I said, it's worth a read simply for the concept itself.	2001-11-29
US	52986477	R3LFVHJP7LH4ZX	0671567667	557948928	The Moon and the Sun	Books	5	12	13	N	N	Recreates the time	For some reason I had my doubts about this book before I even read it . . . don't ask my why, call it a faulty gut.  At first glance it seemed to be a typical &quot;lowly person fights the unyielding establishment and their unceasing ignorance&quot; except set in France.  Fortunately the novel completely transcends any cliche and will probably stand as one of the definitive SF historical novels (how's that for a sub-genre?) for quite a while as it's hard to imagine something surpassing this work.  Plotwise it's fairly straightforward, the court of the Sun King as seen through the eyes of a girl, Marie-Josephe, whose brother goes on a mission for the king to discover the secret of immortality through some sea monsters, one of which he brings back alive.  From there the reader discovers along with Marie-Josephe that the sea monster is more human than anybody realizes at first and she goes to do something about that.  The novel benefits from two things, the strength of its characters (Marie-Josephe is one of the most well rounded characters in years, smart and sensitive, courageous and vulnerable . . . but most of the cast gives her a run for her money) and McIntyre's total recreation of the French court and the people who populated it.  Every ceremony, every gesture, every sight and sound brings you back to the time . . . singlehandedly through her prose she makes the scenes come alive and pulls you into a world that thrives on ceremony and ritual . . . the amount of research that must have gone into this must have been staggering but the end result is well worth it for the reader.  You see both the glorious and the seamy, the honor and the squalidness of the behavior of the members of the court . . . my only complaint is that after a while everyone seems related to everyone else but that's probably not the author's fault.  So the combination of McIntyre's research and her stunning charactization create one of the most exciting and realistic feeling SF historical novels in recent years.  I don't know what else was up for the Nebula in 1997 but the award was certainly deserved.ls in recent years.  I don't know what else was up for the Nebula in 1997 but the award was certainly deserved.	2001-11-26
US	52986477	R31KLIJ6IS58HN	0441005756	102431513	Winter Tides	Books	5	1	1	N	N	A ghost story looking for a ghost	Blaylock has improved his storytelling skills over the years in leaps and bounds, making subtle changes to his style in nearly every novel.  Not every thing he does succeeds absolutely but you have to give credit to the guy for trying.  Here he attempts a spooky ghost story of revenge but as it turns out the ghost is hardly necessary at all . . . which maybe was the point.  Fifteen years ago, Dave Quinn attempted to save twin girls from drowning . . . one didn't make it and he still feels guilty about it.  Working for an eccentric old man (the closest Blaylock comes to one of his classic character stereotypes) and being constantly creeped out by the boss' son Edmund he eventually runs into Anne, who turns out to be the girl he managed to save, it was her sister Elinor who died that night.  From there the tale becomes a story of gradually escalating obsessing, told mostly from the POV of Edmund, who is truly probably the sickest character Blaylock has ever written, I had to wonder about the author's mental state since he seemed to so perfectly capture the effortless madness of Edmund, how even the most depraved act makes perfect sense to his twisted mind.  The kicker is that the ghost of Elinor is supposed to be pushing Edmund to do the things he does, inspiring him and whatnot but Elinor really never develops anything resembling a presence, besides moving stuff around and causing ghostly footsteps and appearing as misty human shapes in the air . . . there's not much else she does . . . fortunately when Blaylock keeps the focus on Edmund and his rather strange passions, life stays interesting and the suspense is nicely done even if toward the end it tends to dissolve into standard &quot;We must stop the villain&quot; stuff complete with cliched, &quot;Let me explain my plan so that you have a chance to stop me&quot; . . . fortunately Dave and Anne are fun characters and you do root for them to get together (even if little is done with it) . . . Dave Quinn is one of the more rounded characters to come down the Blaylock pipeline in a while and remains interesting on his own, especially since he does actively forward the plot, often times Blaylock protagonist let stuff happen to them for a while before they start reacting.  All of these are minor flaws, while reading this pages literally flew and I finished this way faster than I thought I would . . . as a psychological study on sickness it's great, as a ghost story, well it's no Night Relics but you can't knock every one completely out of the park, can you?  Any Blaylock fan can't go wrong here though.he more rounded characters to come down the Blaylock pipeline in a while and remains interesting on his own, especially since he does actively forward the plot, often times Blaylock protagonist let stuff happen to them for a while before they start reacting.  All of these are minor flaws, while reading this pages literally flew and I finished this way faster than I thought I would . . . as a psychological study on sickness it's great, as a ghost story, well it's no Night Relics but you can't knock every one completely out of the park, can you?  Any Blaylock fan can't go wrong here though.	2001-11-22
US	52986477	R257263TZJ7991	0441007562	588578975	The Rainy Season	Books	5	11	11	N	N	Fantasy that lives down your street	Blaylock's books in the last few years have slowly taken on a different tone and direction . . . all for the better, I say.  Gone are the goofy scenarios with almost ridiculously comedic characters and bizarre fantasy situations that just happened to be set in a world we all might happen to recognize . . . those were darn entertaining but I think Blaylock would have undermined himself had he continued to write in that style.  Instead he evolved and grew to the point where he's at now, writing a sort of &quot;fantastic realism&quot; where engagingly real people interact just barely with a world they barely understand and come into contact with things that don't make a whole lot of sense.  The &quot;magic&quot; stuff is kept as far into the background as possible and the focus is squarely on people and how they treat each other and what makes them tick and what separates a &quot;good&quot; decision from a &quot;bad&quot; decision.  In this novel, Phil Ainsworth winds up with custody of his niece after her mother dies but along the way becomes embroiled in an ongoing scenario a century old that might have something to do with the odd well on his land.  The plot is gripping but not all that frightening, it's more tense than anything else and it's fascinating to watch people undone by simple obsessions and the lengths that those obsessions will drive them . . . by the end you're just reading rapidly, watching as they people circle each other and close in, ready to collide in something you know is going to be ugly.  Blaylock evokes both the mystique and the wonder at the heart of magic while bringing to life a little corner of California.  Night Relics is probably still his best book, the psychology cuts much deeper there, the characters have slightly more depth and the evil just a teensy bit more frightening but you would have a hard time going wrong here and it's really not that bad a place to start with him.  I'll be looking forward to seeing what he does next.	2001-11-18
US	52986477	RJZCASUZK86VX	0441499724	879262599	Lord Kelvin's Machine	Books	5	3	5	N	N	An entertaining jaunt	Probably the best thing one can say about this book is that after this he got loads better.  This novel shows Blaylock attempting to write a alternate historical fantasy (I think, though it's never clearly said) with a knotted twisting plot while at the same time having a little fun with it.  Most of it comes off like he was reading his good friend Tim Power's novels and thought, \\"Hey I could do that!\\" but this kind of thing definitely isn't where his strengths are.  The blurbs on the back and front tout it as a time travelling novel and it sort of is one of those but you have to get through two other parts with the same characters . . . the main character is a detective/scientist named St. Ives who is trying to stop a diabolical professor, especially after the man killed the love of his life.  The title machine comes in early for a totally different reason (and it's never explained how they decide to use it to travel in time) and the science must be parody but it's played dead serious which sort of deflates the purpose.  So they're entertaining but don't seem to move any kind of plot forward . . . it's also hard to get a handle on St Ives, all you ever hear is how brilliant he is but you never really see him dedude anything or work hard at it, he just knows everything and Blaylock seems to operate on the idea that if you repeat something often enough people will believe you.  The third part, featuring mostly only St Ives nearly redeems the novel . . . after nearly beating it into you that he's at his wits end and is totally depressed and numb, things finally start happening and lots of interesting twists come in . . . unfortunately the ultimate resolution of the book makes you wonder why he just didn't do it earlier . . . frankly this feels like a short story padded out for whatever reason.  Maybe Blaylock liked the characters.  But honestly if you just took the prologue and the third part you would have a fine novella or the like.  After this I think he abandoned the historical fantasy stuff and leaned more towards merging modern fantasy with the viewpoint of ordinary people and how it affects them . . . that he did brilliantly and those are the books you should seek out.  (...)the historical fantasy stuff and leaned more towards merging modern fantasy with the viewpoint of ordinary people and how it affects them . . . that he did brilliantly and those are the books you should seek out.  (...)	2001-11-11
US	52986477	R3L1MAIIU02ZTE	1569716110	976324589	Domu	Books	5	6	6	N	N	After (or before or during) Akira, read this	The name &quot;Otomo&quot; is generally associated with either the epic comic Akira or the movie based on the comic.  But before he dazzled everyone in the entire world with that masterpiece he did this small (for him, about three hundred pages . . .) comic that manages to nearly equal Akira on several levels.  The length gives it a certain tightness and intensity even when the story isn't moving that fast (which is rare) and you hardly notice that as you're reading pages are flying past.  The story reads like a sort of prelude to Akira, involving people with psychic powers, especially kids.  What makes it different is the setting . . . the story takes place in a large apartment complex that is almost a character in itself, its massive blocky bulk looming over everyone and everything, the spreads of the entire apartment are some of the best comic art I've ever seen.  In this rather condensed space an old man with psychic powers is terrorizing everyone for the sheer heck of it . . . he's not so much evil as a senile old man with no sense of right or wrong, he acts purely on demented whim and with his powers he can do just about anything.  Until one day a small girl who also happens to have psychic abilities shows up and soon the sparks are flying as the two of them wind up dueling, with the entire apartment as a battleground (you'll never see an elevator the same way again) while the cops try to figure out just what is happening before the entire place explodes.  The art is spectacular and easily up to Akira's standards, especially when stuff starts to blow up (which it does often) and Otomo's view of dreary apartment life adds that all important social commentary at the same time.  Few comics are as visually and intelluctually gripping as this one and if you have only a passing interest in Akira, or even science fiction in general (it won an international SF award, the Grand Prix) you would do well to pick this up.	2001-11-08
US	52986477	R13OBFJGTVEFV3	0375404538	712745860	Jimmy Corrigan: The Smartest Kid on Earth	Books	5	3	4	N	Y	Best comic no one is reading	Sure it's cliche but it's probably true.  Though chances are with all the media attention it's garnerned, widespread acclaim is soon to come (if it hasn't already).  Years ago I heard of Chris Ware's Acme Novelty Library and its wacky size formats and peripherally of the &quot;Smartest Kid on Earth&quot; story that was taking place sporadically within it.  Now with the entire story available is a very nicely designed hardcover (and a meaty four hundred pages!) it's quite clear to see that Ware has crafted a masterpiece of the genre.  The story alternates in tone between bitter depression and dark humor as it tells the story of Jimmy Corrigan, a lonely shell of a man who's father suddenly appears out of nowhere years after abandoning him to meet him and try to get to know him better.  Interspersed with the main story are flashbacks to earlier Corrigan generations, showing that the father issues aren't a new thing with this crew.  The plot is simple, but leaves plenty of room for touching scenes and absolutely poetic sequences are Ware explores the multitude of emotions that come with basically meeting your father for the first time.  If anything the plot is underrated but that's only because the drawings are so spectacular.  Drawing in an exacting style that somehow maintains a pristine kind of beauty, Ware uses all kinds of strange layouts and tiny panels to tell the story, and just when you least expect it blowing the panels out to full page size with enough detail to make your eyes bleed (the scenes alone at the World's Fair are worth the price of the book).  By turns thought provoking and depressing, uplifting and hilarious, Ware's book is simply one the most amazing books to come out of the comic medium in a long time and a welcome relief to those who were wondering if all the medium can produce are superheroes.  Highly recommended.	2001-11-05
US	52986477	R8Z1CYM49S82Q	0553575376	482694144	Excession	Books	5	39	45	N	N	Good, but you'll work for it	Most Iain Banks books are challenging reads, it's a credit to the man that he refuses to write down because he's penning SF novels and not the higher profile &quot;literary&quot; stuff that most of the mainstream probably recognizes him for (is he well read in this country, nobody I know has heard of him . . . what's with that?) so what you basically get with the Culture novels is SF from someone who really knows how to write and doesn't just have a degree and feels the need to share this nifty cool idea he had the other day.  This book is full of cool ideas but more importantly it's a dense and slightly elusive work . . . while it's not opaque stuff isn't spelled out explicitly for the reader, there are a lot of dots to connect here.  The setup is a large object has appeared from literally nowhere and interacts with the energy grip in a way that is supposed to be impossible.  But this isn't the first time this object appeared and the only person who is around from that last appearance is Stored in a ship and has to be convinced to come out.  That's how the plot starts.  Where it ends is somewhere totally different and if sometimes you think you're reading a totally different book, that's just par for the course with Banks.  The focus this time around is more on the Minds in the ships, which is good and bad.  The Minds are basically human and their rapid fire conversations that take up a large chunk of the book are highly entertaining . . . however it can be daunting for readers unable to keep track of the dozens of names, especially with little strong personality to back up the Mind and make an impression.  You may wish for a recap box at some point to make sure you're still up to speed.  Still astute readers are rewarded with a plot that twists almost dizzingly . . . I've read a few Banks books by now and he still amazes how he manages to turn everything upside down so quickly.  The action is good, the dialogue between ships crackles, the plot is mind bending and the last page deserves to be read over and over again.  I can't say this is his best work, but like all his other stuff the quality is high and if new readers have the stamina, they'll find themselves pleasantly delighted.the last page deserves to be read over and over again.  I can't say this is his best work, but like all his other stuff the quality is high and if new readers have the stamina, they'll find themselves pleasantly delighted.	2001-11-01
US	52986477	R2RJ0BWJGZPOZ8	067973225X	161451712	As I Lay Dying: The Corrected Text	Books	5	8	8	N	N	One of the classics	This is the third Faulkner book I've read and each one seems to get better and better . . . maybe it's because I'm getting more used to his style.  He beautifully recreates another place and time and populates it with a cast of characters that seem sometimes way too bizarre to live but then gives you peeks inside their heads that make you realize that they aren't all that different from us.  The plot, in its simplest form, is that Addie Bunden has died and her husband, Anse, made a promise to her before she died that he would bury her in her native town of Jefferson, which is some distance away.  So he gathers the family up and starts the journey.  Only its not that simple and at times it seems like this is the unluckiest family on the planet, disaster upon disaster just keeps dropping on them out of nowhere.  It doesn't help that by and large this is a family that defines the word dysfunctional and they have some interesting ways to deal with adversity (wait until you see the solution for a broken leg!).  Faulkner keeps the narrative moving by the then innovative (I guess) technique of jumping to multiple viewpoint and having different people tell the story from different perspectives, often wildly differing in their presentation and tone.  The people range from deadly serious to comical and Faulkner's skill at putting complicated thoughts into often beautiful prose is readily apparent here.  Just about every section has a line or two that you find yourself reading over again simply to savor how well written it is.  The plot curves like a downward spiral, culminating in an ending that I certainly didn't see coming, even if it did make loads of sense.  As with any Faulkner book there are probably layers and layers of allusion and symbolism that I missed completely . . . some lines are repeated too often to stand for just their literal meaning.  But even just read in a straightforward fashion Faulkner's stream of consciousness techniques and his ability to use setting to its fullest extent will make this a memorable reading experience for those who want a little thinking with their reading.  They don't write like this anymore.g to its fullest extent will make this a memorable reading experience for those who want a little thinking with their reading.  They don't write like this anymore.	2001-10-23
US	52986477	R1DHN406P9EEDO	0812516958	335478705	Playgrounds of the Mind: The Sequel to N-Space	Books	5	0	0	N	N	A fun romp through Niven's head	Most people who are reading this probably read N-Space and want to know if it's more of the same (which can be good or bad depending on what you thought of the last book) . . . basically it is more of the same, though the book &quot;feels&quot; different, don't ask me why.  It's still the same mix of already seen short stories, rare short stories, excerpts from both longer works and works in progress and a bunch of essays on various topics.  So a reader's reaction to it probably will be fairly personal depending on how well read one is with Niven.  I've read a good majority of his novels and short story collections so the key point for me was the essays and the introductions to the stories themselves.  Don't get me wrong, Niven is probably best with the short story and just about all of the stories here are worth reading again (there's also a bunch of stories set within the &quot;Magic Goes Away&quot; setting, all of which are great fun) . . . the excerpts aren't that interesting since most of them don't really give a good impression of the book but the notes about the writing of the novels make it more worthwhile.  Niven is a lively writer when it comes to essays and the like, he often comes across as best fun and rather smug at the same time, like he's proud of himself and doesn't mind letting you know that.  However, I can't blame him, if I was as successful as he has been in the SF field I'd probably toot my own horn more than could be considered healthy.  He can afford it.  Basically new readers will like this and the preceeding volume as a taste of what Niven can do, getting a glimpse of a lot of the high points that are lurking in his books (admittedly sometimes you have to look hard) while older readers can enjoy some longtime favorites and amuse ourselves with the many anecdotes and asides.  A worthy purchase for any category of Niven fandom.	2001-10-13
US	52986477	R3TRN6KW5Y07QE	0812510011	150216452	N-Space	Books	5	18	18	N	N	Excellent introduction	A Larry Niven novel, especially lately, can be a hit or miss affair but it's clear the man still knows what he's doing and there's no better way to prove that to pick up this hefty book.  Not so much a collection of short stories as a retrospective and an introduction just about every piece here has something to recommend it to new and old readers.  Niven has some of the best hard science ideas ever put down on paper but sometimes he forgets about the plot when writing his longer works, in short story form all the brilliance shines right through and you can see why millions revere the man as a writer of ideas.  By and large the short stories are all excellent, ranging from the really good (&quot;Cloak of Anarchy&quot; &quot;The Fourth Profession&quot;) to the merely okay (the story set in the Smoke Ring).  For new readers there are even excerpts from his more famous novels, though only a couple highlight the best portions of the book (especially &quot;The Mote in God's Eye&quot; bit, which reminds those of us who have read it why we loved the book so much in the first place), all are interesting.  But even better than the stories are the series of essays interspersed throughout the book.  Some are Niven just goofing and having a good time (the bit about Superman's attempt at mating is one of the funniest things I've ever read and is worth the price of the book alone) and others are serious pieces on science fiction and writing in general.  Rarely do readers get such a peek inside the mind of one of their favorite writers and it's a welcome look.  Overall if you have even a passing interest in Niven you can't go wrong, since it focuses on what he's really good at and with so many stories and essays, the chance of a reader getting bored is very slim indeed.	2001-09-20
US	52986477	R2FHPY4KHRFRPP	0812524969	329457260	Beowulf's Children	Books	5	17	18	N	N	Fitting sequel	The trio of authors involved in this have to be commended for not basically rewriting the first book with different characters, which I think is what a lot of people expected/hoped for considering the hostile reviews this (and &quot;The Gripping Hand&quot; another sequel in the same vein) have garnered.  Of course they can't capture the magic of the first book because that was all about the shock of the new . . . but they gamely try here and almost succeed.  If you haven't figured it out yet, reading this book is absolutely useless without first having at least a passing knowledge of the Legacy of Heorot, this expands the story twenty years beyond the end of that book (one of the problems is that there was no pressing need for a sequel, the first book wrapped itself up fairly well and neatly) and follows new and old characters as a new generation grows up on the planet of Avalon and gets ready to grab the torch and settle the planet.  The Grendel Wars of twenty years ago are long forgotten and the generation gap is in full force here with the &quot;Earthborn&quot; and &quot;Starborn&quot; undergoing quite a bit of friction with each other.  This book is highly entertaining and you'll find yourself devouring large chunks of it in a sitting, it's not a weighty philosophical book, mostly adventure with a bunch of science thrown in to dazzle the readers.  Part of the problem is it tries to be everything at once and winds up being gigantic without really satisfying any of those parts.  It's a scientific exploration of Avalon, delving into the flora and fauna with typical Niven zeal, and I have to admit his ideas are dazzling, the place feels both alien and familiar at the same time.  But it's also a vague attempt at social commentary, with the more conversation adults warring with the far more liberal values of their children . . . however there's also a big focus on sex for no apparent reason.  They handle the large cast well and while it's hard to get a feel for the newer group, a lot of the older characters are deepened by this treatment, especially Cadmann, who while being the hero was very one note at times.  Lastly it's a tense adventure thriller but the tension never really develops until the end and while it is rewarding, you spend a lot of time wondering where this is all eventually going.  The resolution is a tad fuzzy, especially when it comes to motivations but those are all just quibbles.  The book may not win any awards but it's well crafted and enjoyable for all its bulk and a welcome revisiting of a fascinating planet.  Those wanting to go beyond The Legacy may want to look here but don't expect a carbon copy.wer group, a lot of the older characters are deepened by this treatment, especially Cadmann, who while being the hero was very one note at times.  Lastly it's a tense adventure thriller but the tension never really develops until the end and while it is rewarding, you spend a lot of time wondering where this is all eventually going.  The resolution is a tad fuzzy, especially when it comes to motivations but those are all just quibbles.  The book may not win any awards but it's well crafted and enjoyable for all its bulk and a welcome revisiting of a fascinating planet.  Those wanting to go beyond The Legacy may want to look here but don't expect a carbon copy.	2001-09-10
US	52986477	RFSNCZ2X9JQAM	0671795740	778039193	The Gripping Hand	Books	5	20	29	N	N	An entertaining talk-a-thon	Eighteen years in the making! the cover proclaims.  Not that I believe they spent the last eighteen years writing it but I guess everyone is allowed some poetic license.  To any potential readers out there if you're thinking of reading this book and haven't read The Mote in God's Eye, then stop right now and go read that book and then come back.  Okay?  I'll wait.  In any event, as you no doubt figured this novel is a sequel to that SF classic, which detailed First Contact with a race very different from humans in good and bad ways . . . and the worst way caused us to seal them up in their solar system to prevent them from spreading.  But now it's thirty years later and there's a good chance that the Moties are going to come out.  Now what?  Do we wipe them all out or try to negotiate with them in hopes of forming some kind of compromise.  As you can probably infer, this isn't as action packed as the last book was, in fact it consists of mostly dialogue, pages and pages of people talking and trying to manuever politically and strategically and whatnot.  So some fans were probably put off from page one.  But all in all for a book that has been slammed a million times it's not that bad . . . sure the engrossing mystery is gone and so are lots of the breakneck action but excitement can be found in the slow build up and the endless back and forth talk.  If anything the two strikes working against the book are it's too long (especially toward the end, which just keeps going and going and going . . .) and none of the new characters are memorable at all.  The old people are back, mostly Kevin Renner and Horace Bury and they make out well but even the others aren't even featured and the newcomers (especially Jennifer and Glinda Ruth) are so one note that it borders on annoying.  However, the Niven/Pournelle team manages to capture your attention once you've gotten far enough into the book and by stringing along a series of minor climaxes they successfully keep the reader moving along with the plot (which, for all the manipulations, is oddly straightforward).  So no, they did try something different with this one so they have to get credit for that . . . without the shock of the new that the last book had this novel can't hope to measure up but it's an entertaining book on its own and a welcome look at a race and concept that deserved revisiting.ving along with the plot (which, for all the manipulations, is oddly straightforward).  So no, they did try something different with this one so they have to get credit for that . . . without the shock of the new that the last book had this novel can't hope to measure up but it's an entertaining book on its own and a welcome look at a race and concept that deserved revisiting.	2001-09-02
US	52986477	R3SBNGS3CQI361	067172052X	710018889	Fallen Angels	Books	5	97	104	N	N	Way better than I expected	Over the years we've come to expect great things from Niven/Pournelle collaborations, their track record has been so good that you can't help but want more from each sucessive novel. But for some reason I had low expectations for this, the concept just didn't seem that interesting . . . in a nutshell two astronauts crashland into the middle of a future US where most technology has been outlawed in favor of an extremist form of environmentalism . . . without reading it my first reaction was &quot;yawn&quot; and I settled down to plug away at it and get it over with. Little did I know. This has to be one of the most entertaining SF experiences I've read in recent years . . . the authors (I'm not sure what Michael Flynn added to the affair, being that I'm not up on his work . . . but heck he could have just sat there and smiled for all I care) throw in all sorts of interesting stuff . . . their take on the environmentally friendly United States is both mildly amusing and utterly chilling, a world where science is seen as just another form of magic rammed down everyone's throat by &quot;white, heterosexual males&quot; (hey!) and superstition and &quot;conservation&quot; are the order of the day. You sit there and chuckle about the characters are acting so silly . . . until you go read the newspaper and hear the latest reaction to the latest research. It's scary. For kicks they throw in an upcoming Ice Age and blame it on the efforts to halt global warming and that adds a nice backdrop to the whole affair. But the cap to the already fine novel is the portrayal of the SF fan community . . . with science all but outlawed and SF seen as the &quot;wrong&quot; kind of reading, fans have to hold conventions in secret, pretend to have &quot;mundane&quot; jobs and basically go underground . . . the authors show the community as not only a closely knit group of utterly unique individuals who aren't nerds that sit around discussing which Star Trek captain was the greatest, but as resourceful and quick thinking. Apparently some of the characters are based on real people and this is probably SF's greatest love letter to the fans that make it all worthwhile, the authors definitely feel an affection for these people. The plot moves swiftly and turns in all the right places, even in the darkest hour everyone seems to be having a fine time and when you're done you'll fine you have little to complain about. So ignore the garish cover and lackluster writeup on the back cover, just get it and dive in, if you consider yourself in any way a &quot;true&quot; SF fan, you need to read this.resourceful and quick thinking. Apparently some of the characters are based on real people and this is probably SF's greatest love letter to the fans that make it all worthwhile, the authors definitely feel an affection for these people. The plot moves swiftly and turns in all the right places, even in the darkest hour everyone seems to be having a fine time and when you're done you'll fine you have little to complain about. So ignore the garish cover and lackluster writeup on the back cover, just get it and dive in, if you consider yourself in any way a &quot;true&quot; SF fan, you need to read this.	2001-08-26
US	52986477	R17TXLIT6MPZI4	0345302575	36264287	Smoke Ring	Books	5	14	15	N	N	Typical Niven, for better or worse	Chances are, when you think of a good Niven book, you don't recall the awe-inspiring plot or earth shattering dialogue exchanges or any of that sissy stuff . . . it's the ideas that hold your attention and make the book worth reading.  Which leads to a love or hate relationship with the man . . . if you like your SF &quot;hard&quot; he's about as hard as they come and when he's &quot;on&quot; you'll find yourself dazzled even if you're trying to resist.  And then there are those times when he's so in love with his ideas that he forgets to write a story to go along with it.  This isn't that bad but it almost comes close.  I'll admit the original concept of the Integral Trees was mind boggling, an entire civilization of human beings adapted to a zero gravity environment in a cloud of atmosphere that orbits a neutron star.  It's been a few years since I read that book and so forgiveable that I don't quite remember what happened . . . but that concept.  Whoa.  Niven revisits it here, bringing back some of the people from the first book, adding some newcomers and exploring the world a little bit.  The plot, when they bother with it, is fairly straightforward and really doesn't build to any sort of climax or peak, it hovers somewhere around episodic without even congealing into anything memorable.  However, the ideas, those are the meat of this book and Niven whips them out on almost every page, taking full advantage of the scenario and running with the ball for all its worth.  If you read your SF for the &quot;science&quot; part of it, you're in luck, he gives enough stuff here to keep a generation of physics graduate students busy for quite some time.  Thankfully you don't need a doctorate in a higher science to understand all of it but like I said, ideas are basically all this book has.  The characters are merely mouthpieces to put forward the ideas, the plot itself is merely a showcase for the ideas . . . it's a textbook with dialogue sometimes.  Still, I finished it despite all of that and even if in a week I won't be able to tell you a single thing that happened in it (but boy can I explain the concept) while you're reading it you will probably find it highly entertaining, like I did.  So, no it's not a classic but it can be fun.  Niven gets points for originality (even if it is a sequel) even if that's all he has here.  Try it anyway.despite all of that and even if in a week I won't be able to tell you a single thing that happened in it (but boy can I explain the concept) while you're reading it you will probably find it highly entertaining, like I did.  So, no it's not a classic but it can be fun.  Niven gets points for originality (even if it is a sequel) even if that's all he has here.  Try it anyway.	2001-08-20
US	52986477	R2FEQOJVJ9X68H	0671877046	92373266	Glory Road	Books	5	3	6	N	N	A road with no landmarks	The cover proclaims this as one of &quot;The best SF novels of all time!&quot; and well they're very much entitled to their opinion I think they're way off the mark here.  Not only is this far from Heinlein's best book, it doesn't even have a prayer of cracking the top ten.  Is it bad?  No, it's far from his worst, the master is clearly trying here and when he starts it's very promising.  Told in the typical first person of a slightly jaded soldier looking for some meaning and purpose to his life, he answers a random personals ad and winds up getting whisked away by a gorgeous woman and her servant.  At first Heinlein seems to be setting up a parody of heroic fantasy from a skewed SF perspective, the narration seems almost tongue in cheek and the events are so absurd that it's great fun.  Unfortunately he forgot to provide any depth.  Other than the main character, he mostly stumbles from situation to situation like a blind man, everyone else is about as thin as the paper the book is printed on.  The &quot;Amazon&quot; Star uses the word &quot;darling&quot; at least once every sentence  and is so one note that it she must represent someone's fantasy (maybe not Heinlein's) since her unwavering devotion gets tedious real early on and then doesn't let up.  The quest is just as bad, with no apparent goal it's three people walking through a random forest and killing things without any reason to it.  At least the quest ends before the book is over but then any momentum that has been garnered now dissolves as the true nature of Star is revealed and Heinlein switches to Preacher mode, turning the already cardboard characters into mouthpieces for a glorified libertarian lecture (which can be done in an entertaining fashion, The Moon is a Harsh Mistress being a good example) . . . it also nicely showcases another fantasy, where women can throw themselves at a man and your wife not only doesn't care that you were tempted but tells you to basically go ahead and maybe even yells at you for not taking the poor girl up on the offer (while vowing to remain forever true to you . . .).  If you can get past all of this (and I did, after a fashion) you'll have a good time just enjoying the ride, the narration is swift and very funny, it alone probably saves the book when Heinlein exhausts his ideas early on.  Needless to say not the first, the third or the fifth choice to start with but once you've gotten used to Heinlein, it's not so bad, really.  But I had to get that off my chest.  It's also my last Heinlein review, so whoo-ho!  It's been fun and at least try all his books, just about every one offers something for your time.  Just remember to not take it all too seriously.at you for not taking the poor girl up on the offer (while vowing to remain forever true to you . . .).  If you can get past all of this (and I did, after a fashion) you'll have a good time just enjoying the ride, the narration is swift and very funny, it alone probably saves the book when Heinlein exhausts his ideas early on.  Needless to say not the first, the third or the fifth choice to start with but once you've gotten used to Heinlein, it's not so bad, really.  But I had to get that off my chest.  It's also my last Heinlein review, so whoo-ho!  It's been fun and at least try all his books, just about every one offers something for your time.  Just remember to not take it all too seriously.	2001-08-12
US	52986477	R7E27JU3UQO03	0671876716	44071865	Podkayne of Mars	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Ending?  Where's the plot?	You know you're in trouble when the publisher feels the need to resort to baby talk to describe the title character (&quot;People think she's the bestest&quot; . . . she doesn't even talk like that, you talk to pets like that). One of the last novels Heinlein wrote for young adults specifically, this one seems like Heinlein on auto-pilot.  You've got Podkayne, a breezy talkative oh so cute teenager who has perhaps one goal in life, to be a starship captain.  To be the first female starship captain.  And that's it.  There's some giggly stuff about babies and how super neat peachy keen it is to visit Earth and Venus but if you try to dig deeper into Podkayne there's just nothing there.  She's easy to relate to because she's so ultra-nice and kind but two hundred pages of that gets wearying after a while.  Unfortunately it's not helped by a rather episodic plot mostly carried along by Podkayne's cheerful narration . . . she and her brother go visit Venus with her uncle, who apparently is a senator or something.  Again, that's it.  There's some conflict introduced but it's almost arbitrary, sort of like Heinlein was like, &quot;Gee, this is boring, we'd better make this exciting&quot;.  Which of course leads to the ending.  Ah, the ending, the contraversial ending that so irked the publisher they forced Heinlein to change it.  In Heinlein's original ending, Podkayne doesn't make out so well, and so it was changed so that she turns out better . . . however to do it and maintain the same point he was trying to make, he basically hits the reader over the head with it.  People have debated this over and over and there are some very well written essays in the back arguing for either ending . . . all of them miss the point.  There's no reason to care about Podkayne, if she lives or dies, I read it and I was like, &quot;So?&quot;  And maybe I'm just callous, but hey.  What saved the book was actually Heinlein's portrayal of her brother, Clark, who is brilliant but almost totally amoral, it's very chilling toward the end when you realize that Clark is basically a sociopath . . . it's handled very well and far more nuanced and interesting than Podkayne, who once she tells you her dream has basically told you all you need to know about her.  If you read (or reread) the book from the perspective of it being Clark's story and not Podkayne's, it becomes much more interesting because you can chart his evolution and how he grows and changes (or doesn't).  That alone redeems the book.  Don't get me wrong, it's far more enjoyable than Friday was, since it's light hearted fun (except for the ending but she basically deserved it anyway . . . as one essayist points out, she was a moron) and Heinlein doesn't beat you over the head with his points.  The pacing is good, keeping what little story there is moving swiftly along.  And the essays themselves are fun as well.  I won't be so dumb as to make a blanket statement that Heinlein can't write women well, once in a while he hits the mark, but if it wasn't for the ending being so notorious I think this would ultimately be judged as a pleasant, if not forgettable read.ly amoral, it's very chilling toward the end when you realize that Clark is basically a sociopath . . . it's handled very well and far more nuanced and interesting than Podkayne, who once she tells you her dream has basically told you all you need to know about her.  If you read (or reread) the book from the perspective of it being Clark's story and not Podkayne's, it becomes much more interesting because you can chart his evolution and how he grows and changes (or doesn't).  That alone redeems the book.  Don't get me wrong, it's far more enjoyable than Friday was, since it's light hearted fun (except for the ending but she basically deserved it anyway . . . as one essayist points out, she was a moron) and Heinlein doesn't beat you over the head with his points.  The pacing is good, keeping what little story there is moving swiftly along.  And the essays themselves are fun as well.  I won't be so dumb as to make a blanket statement that Heinlein can't write women well, once in a while he hits the mark, but if it wasn't for the ending being so notorious I think this would ultimately be judged as a pleasant, if not forgettable read.	2001-08-07
US	52986477	R1HV4CSX2QN0MU	0345342445	546810848	Citizen of the Galaxy	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Good but shows why editors are sometimes needed	One of the things I do like about Heinlein novels, especially the shorter ones is the apparent sprawl, a story can start out one way and then out of nowhere start going somewhere else entirely, so by the end you're nowhere near where you started.  This would be one of those books.  Thorby is a slave who doesn't know who is parents are and winds up getting sold to a one eyed, one legged beggar who isn't exactly what he seems.  From there Thorby starts to begin rediscovering where he came from and who he is and by the time the story finishes you're going to have a hard time believing it's the same person.  Actually, Heinlein does manage to convince you the Thorby you start with is the Thorby you end with but that's because he's a tad . . . boring.  That's right, reading it reminded me of reading the adventures of an eager puppy, perhaps it's Heinlein's comment on what slavery does to you but Thorby for most of the story is basically looking for someone to tell him what to do it's pathetic.  And even when he seems to be getting more initiative, it's only to go find someone else to give him better orders.  So don't read it for the dazzling character study (the best character is probably Baslim the beggar, but he doesn't last long anyway . . .) read it for the plethora of ideas Heinlein splatters all over the page.  From the slave trade and beggar existence to the Free Traders and beyond that, he crams in stuff that lesser writers would need entire series to tackle.  He just tosses it off in a few pages and it feels like it has some actual depth to it.  That's talent, folks.  Here he has a knack for making the situations seem plausible and even likely, and the hard part about SF is making the reader believe.  He convinced me here.  The only other complaint with the book is that he falls in love with his ideas a bit too much and some parts of the book drag a bit, the fact that Thorby isn't all that interesting doesn't help and in parts the book has little drive whatsoever, it just sort of drifts.  But if you've got the patience (and the book's not that long) and just keep plowing forward, it turns out to be fairly rewarding.  Yeah, the ending is kind of &quot;eh&quot; but getting there is half the fun.  Not his best, but still enjoyable., it just sort of drifts.  But if you've got the patience (and the book's not that long) and just keep plowing forward, it turns out to be fairly rewarding.  Yeah, the ending is kind of &quot;eh&quot; but getting there is half the fun.  Not his best, but still enjoyable.	2001-08-05
US	52986477	R2W39O1R2L01M2	0345328116	342043542	Starman Jones	Books	5	2	2	N	N	What's not to like?	I wish I could start off with something suitably self important sounding like &quot;Heinlein is yet to be fully appreciated&quot; or somesuch nonsense that tries to encapsulate someone's career in a few pitiful words.  But, alas, Heinlein has mostly received his due over the years and as more and more people discover SF, they realize what the grand majority of us already knew: this Heinlein guy knew what he was doing.  Even a novel like this, which Heinlein probably could have churned out in his sleep, stands head and shoulders over just about everything that went on in those days.  Even today it remains a solidly entertaining read, with enough elements to keep adults interested while managing to capture the attention of the young adult set.  Here we have Max in the &quot;wide eyed naive boy&quot; mode, starting from nothing with only his dream to go into space and become a astrogator.  There's nothing utterly ground breaking about this novel but Heinlein keeps everything moving smoothly, mixing his mostly one note characters well, the dialogue breezes along and everyone gets some good lines in.  He depicts ship life in a way that Star Trek would be hard pressed to copy fifteen years later and throws in enough other wacky stuff to keep the plot spinning nicely, even the left field stuff doesn't feel as jarring as it can sometimes get.  The entire package as a whole is very satisifying and while this is Heinlein treading water a bit and working his formula, it was a formula that worked and if you've run out of truly essential Heinlein books to work through, you can't do worse than this.  In fact I would take this any day over I Will Fear No Evil or Friday . . . and I mean that.  Don't believe me?  Read these and then read this and try to tell me otherwise.  A fine example of the master in his prime.	2001-07-30
US	52986477	R1D8OVP0N1TIB	0345353730	2944439	Tunnel in the Sky	Books	5	5	5	N	N	It's certainly boring . . .	. . . giving all of these Heinlein books such high ratings.  His earlier books may not have been groundbreaking, thought provoking contraversy causing science fiction, but you know what, by and large they were far more entertaining.  When Heinlein isn't so concerned with pushing forward a particular viewpoint or treading a topic for about the tenth time, he easily shows why he was and is still considered the master.  This book's a good example, Rod and his classmates are finishing off a survival program and the final exam is to drop them on some random planet for up to ten days and see how long they last.  Except something goes wrong of course or there'd be no book.  Heinlein sets up Rod as a brainy guy who has to really work to adapt his classroom knowledge, his vision of the future earth is as fascinating as always and the concept of the &quot;gates&quot; linking different planets is a great idea that's almost tossed off as a plot device here, lesser authors would have labored over it for pages.  The real meat of this story is barely SF, Rod and those he comes across must band together and form some sort of community, for however it might be before help arrives to come and get them.  Some of the characters are obvious Heinlein mouthpieces but you should expect that by now and he really keeps the lecturing to a minimum, the emphasis is on the swift plot and the various accidents and trials that stand between the crew and a functioning community.  The women are even portrayal almost fairly for once, although he still has this habit of wavering between tough as nails take no prisoners renditions and &quot;whatever you say, dear&quot; type girls, but you can probably make a similar argument for the guys.  And anyway, in a story like this, the focus is more on the story itself and Heinlein succeeds on every level, delivering a story that is not only thrilling and exciting but also possessing just enough realism to really engage the reader.  Even the ending adds some interesting twists, and in the name of pure fun, you really can't do much better than this.teresting twists, and in the name of pure fun, you really can't do much better than this.	2001-07-23
US	52986477	RHO4MQ04VH0EU	0345324382	208109050	Farmer in the Sky	Books	5	27	28	N	N	How does he keep doing it?	How does this man turn what has to be one of the sillier titles I've ever seen (and probably wouldn't even sell at all today) and an almost absurdly basic concept and turn it into one of his most entertaining books?  It must have been depressing try to match him in the fifties, he pulls off everything there here effortlessly, working comfortably within his own style without coming across as formulaic.  Here we've got yet another vision of a future earth, where there's too many people and food is scarce . . . people are going to a colony on one of the moons orbiting Jupiter and Bill and his father decide that it's the place for them.  Heinlein captures the pioneering spirit and drive brilliantly, subjecting his characters to all sorts of hardships, to the point where you can very easily relate to them even though they're somewhere way out in space and Jupiter keeps hanging in the sky (some of the most beautiful scenes in the novel have to do with that image, I wonder if it really looks like that) . . . even better, whenever one of the characters notes how hard it is to survive there, someone else always points out that most of the early colonies on earth were wiped out to a man.  Bill remains a fairly consistent character in the Heinlein mode, always willing to learn, resourceful in the right moments, rarely giving up, he has his own appeal but it's not limited to just him, his father (if you can get past he and his father calling each other by their first names) is cut from the same mold, his friend Hank remains the biggest surprise, and while some of the characters are needlessly whiny only to contrast how hard working the rest of the cast is, those are only minor complaints.  The book flies, he manages to make the farmer life but interesting and exciting and if you concentrate on the sights that Heinlein is weaving, it's darn good.  It gets a little strange toward the end when he starts pulling out plot twists from nowhere (he kills off someone in a way that you'll find yourself working very hard to care) but the ride is swift and totally fun, the way a good old SF novel should be.  If you dismiss this because you think, &quot;Oh it's for kids&quot; or &quot;Oh, it's fifty years old&quot; then you have no idea what you're missing.  And you'd be making a terrible mistake.l find yourself working very hard to care) but the ride is swift and totally fun, the way a good old SF novel should be.  If you dismiss this because you think, &quot;Oh it's for kids&quot; or &quot;Oh, it's fifty years old&quot; then you have no idea what you're missing.  And you'd be making a terrible mistake.	2001-07-23
US	52986477	R1SIPXIUMUBGU3	0345340396	381425797	Red Planet (A Del Rey book)	Books	5	18	20	N	N	The kind of Mars you'd want to live on	In all fairness to Kim Stanley Robinson's beyond excellent Mars trilogy and all the other fine writers who have tackled Mars in a realist fashion, there's that little Golden Age part of me that prefers romps like this one, where the story isn't as much as slave to science and fun rules the day.  In Heinlein's day nobody really knew anything about Mars so a story like this where Mars is fairly run over with creatures (including the adorable ball of fur Willis) didn't cause anyone to bat an eye.  And it shouldn't cause today's readers to put it aside either, its a fun and fast read that hits all the right notes and will entertain you throughout.  Young adult Jim is going to school on Mars with his pet Willis when they discover something that might harm his fellow colonists back home, he and his friend Frank go through what seems like a million adventures, each one more fantastic than the last, before eventually saving the day.  Yes, it's a book for the young adult in you, but Heinlein sticks plenty of stuff in here to appeal to us older folk.  Granted he also loves to stick in his politics, there's plenty of &quot;Guns make you a man&quot; arguments running around (which I can stomach here moreso than the &quot;letting the army kick the crap out of you makes you a man&quot; argument in later novels) along with other issues like that but they don't get in the way of the book at all.  The good guys are good the bad guys are bad and Heinlein's imagination is in full force, even the obligatory cutesy alien that winds up being far more than a cutesy alien is used to good effect here and while Jim indulges in that overly breezy dialogue we've come to know and love, none of the characters strike me as annoying (unlike the Star Beast where they all annoyed me), which is a good thing.  The Martians are extremely well done, coming off as both human and alien at the same time, blessed with a culture we can barely strike the tip of.  The cover of my edition trumpets that it's the &quot;complete, uncut novel&quot; and while that may have had some relevance for Stranger in a Strange Land, what the heck could they have cut out, it's not that long a book in the first place.  Those looking for sophisticated examinations of complex issues aren't going to find that here but those who just want a fun time and a good read can do worse with this, that's for sure.  There's a reason why people considered him a master before Stranger in a Strange Land.&quot;complete, uncut novel&quot; and while that may have had some relevance for Stranger in a Strange Land, what the heck could they have cut out, it's not that long a book in the first place.  Those looking for sophisticated examinations of complex issues aren't going to find that here but those who just want a fun time and a good read can do worse with this, that's for sure.  There's a reason why people considered him a master before Stranger in a Strange Land.	2001-07-15
US	52986477	R3DCZZ5WPQB0ZN	0380786753	805742654	Fairyland	Books	5	21	22	N	N	He did WHAT to the Magic Kingdom?	The scenes taking place in a far future Eurodisney basically made the book for me, McAuley's vision of a rundown and ramshackle former childrens paradise being changed into a place of forboding evil is probably one of the strongest SF images of the last five years or so . . . and the best part is that the book is about much more than that.  McAuley is one of those rare writers that refuses to do the same trick over and over again (much like the highly recommended Ian Banks), and this book is no exception.  In a not too distant future, McAuley imagines a gritty world with tons of throwaway details and some extrapolation of technology, one of those being &quot;dolls&quot; basically soulless little people.  When a maker of designer drugs gets involved with a young girl who wishes to give the dolls sentience, he succeeds but the results aren't quite what anyone expected.  McAuley's writing is densely descriptive and has an urgency that fits the story well, the plot moves forward steadily and with increasing interest as events start to pile on each others.  He has this habit of starting a section by introducing people who are completely new to the story and then going with them for a bit, while this serves to give us other views of the situation, it also has the effect of sometimes slowing the plot down for a bit while you try to process everything.  Still, his world is beautifully rendered with plenty to keep even casual readers interested and lots of other ideas and extras that serve to enhance his reputation as one of the more fascinating SF new writers to come along the pipeline in a while.	2001-07-12
US	52986477	R1KEP92D28EPW	0553278746	957987582	The Postman	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Thankfully not the movie	Actually I can't attest to having seen said movie, but a cursory reading of the plot of the movie shows that they seemed to have played a bit fast and loose with this book, which considering the reviews it got, probably wasn't a good thing.  Oh well.  To each his own, you're never going to get an exact translation.  At least they're restored the brilliant reissue cover, much as one can admire Kevin Costner as an actor, I would have preferred not to have his bedraggled face staring at me every time I go to pick the book up.  That all stated, this is a highly entertaining and fairly straightforward book, probably not as deep as Brin would like it to be, but a good try nonetheless.  We have a future US destroyed by war, with scattered towns basically living their own separate existences, while an army run by survivalists inspired by a Hitleresque fanatic are trying to take over everything in sight.  Our hero enters this mess while trying to escape some roving raiders and finds a postal uniform and some mail . . . from there he concocts a lie to help him get food and stuff but winds up inspiring everyone and restoring hope to a faded nation, regaining his own lost ideals in the process.  Needless to say there's plenty to like in this book, Brin's envisioning of a future US with everyone living in the shadow of the past war is great, the story moves at a quick pace, so even when it's not that engrossing you're still reading, and the situations are varied, with a fairly uplifting message that manages to come across as sincere.  However, most of the stuff you can see coming from miles away so don't expect &quot;shocks on every page&quot;, with the exception of maybe the main character and some others, most of the people populating the book are a tad one dimensional, sure there's lot of them but very few of them feel &quot;real&quot;.  Brin appears to be shooting for the same status that Earth Abides (a really great novel, by the way), Alas, Babylon and maybe even On the Beach have garnered over the years but he defeats himself by making it too science fictional, what worked in those books was a palpable sense of reality, that this stuff could happen tomorrow, Brin's got too many talking computers, augmented humans and fancy future stuff to give the reader a true connection with his future.  So in the end what you wind up with may not be an enduring classic beloved by millions but merely an extremely entertaining and diverting SF novel.  Which, all told, may be enough.ach have garnered over the years but he defeats himself by making it too science fictional, what worked in those books was a palpable sense of reality, that this stuff could happen tomorrow, Brin's got too many talking computers, augmented humans and fancy future stuff to give the reader a true connection with his future.  So in the end what you wind up with may not be an enduring classic beloved by millions but merely an extremely entertaining and diverting SF novel.  Which, all told, may be enough.	2001-06-30
US	52986477	R8XI2S27KYIEI	0812533461	621659799	Kaleidoscope Century	Books	5	2	4	N	N	Excellent distillation of ideas	Is Barnes a completely original author?  No, of course not, none of his books contain concepts that will rock the SF world and create whole new subgenres, at best his books are a subtle updating of the themes and styles that Heinlein began, but that's part of the charm.  So Barnes isn't a groundbreaking author, how many out there are?  What he can do and what he does well is taking all the good ideas that are out there, putting his own spin on them and sometimes sticking together ideas that you wouldn't think to see together.  In this book we've got basically his version of a Future History, the plot's a tad sketchy since ninety percent of the book takes place in flashback and the stuff that does happen toward the end borders on the confusing.  But we have Josh, a soldier who's lived well over a hundred years and since the planet go from bad to really worse and been involved in his share of unpleasant activity.  Barnes has caught some flak from reviewers about his anti-hero and his actions but keep in mind that nobody in the book is innocent and Josh is about the most decent person there, relatively speaking, he generally doesn't kill for pleasure unless he has to, even though he's not above cold blooded murder for a job.  But it's his unique perspective and viewpoint that adds the flavor to the book, if the book had been told from the POV of a &quot;good guy&quot; then it wouldn't have been half as exciting.  The structure Barnes uses adds to the fun as well, the flashback reel back and forth in time as Josh tries to sort out all the memories, sometimes stuff contradicts each other.  Is it brutal and bloody?  Sure, but so are the times Barnes is trying to detail and his depiction of our future is fairly fascinating, even if I wouldn't want to live there.  He spends most of the book getting Josh up to speed and when the present day events kick in, it's not as great as you'd think it would be, it does explain a lot but still doesn't make a whole lot of sense.  Still, the last page or so is classic and overall the book is a treat for the head, Barnes throws out a million concepts that all hang together well, and manages to make it all convincing at the same time.  Those paying attention might make a case that this is the same universe and future that Orbital Resonance depicts and if so then it's a welcome alternate perpsective on stuff that was only touched on there.  Still, for your money, gritty entertainment doesn't get any better than this and if you're not one of the faint of heart, you could do worse.the last page or so is classic and overall the book is a treat for the head, Barnes throws out a million concepts that all hang together well, and manages to make it all convincing at the same time.  Those paying attention might make a case that this is the same universe and future that Orbital Resonance depicts and if so then it's a welcome alternate perpsective on stuff that was only touched on there.  Still, for your money, gritty entertainment doesn't get any better than this and if you're not one of the faint of heart, you could do worse.	2001-06-23
US	52986477	R2KJV10W7547LI	0812532384	958552912	Orbital Resonance (Meme Wars)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Where's Ender?	All told, this was a fun book, and Barnes should be given lots of credit for writing from the viewpoint of a thirteen year old girl (which I can say from experience is one of the most self absorbed groups on the planet . . .) and making it utterly entertaining, he definitely pulls you into the world he's created and makes you care for his characters.  What we have here is a future Earth that is being ravaged by diseases and wars and the usual stuff that always happens in the future, and so a lot of people have pulled themselves into an orbiting colony in an attempt to get above it all while the earth pulls itself together.  Enter our protagonist, Mel (I won't even try to spell her whole name) who is concerned with the usual thirteen year old fascinations, puberty, boys, classwork and friends and . . . oh yeah, saving the world.  Or at least getting ready to run it.  But all of that seems almost secondary to the writings of this young girl, we get a peek into her and the life of teenagers and how their social pecking order works.  Mel's a fascinating character, she loves her family, can act real annoying sometimes and alternates wallowing in angst and self congratulation.  When her father admits that the kids are being conditioned psychologically to want to help save the world and run it, her reaction is quite realistic considering the circumstances and you can't help but feel for her.  However, Barnes doesn't have much to say about the interactions of teenagers other than the usual amazement of how cruel and kind they can be to each other at the same time, most of the clique stuff you can see coming a mile off once the gears start rolling and that familiarity takes away from some of its emotional impact.  Most of the adults except for maybe her father are ciphers, especially her mother.  Still, her growing relationship with a boy she has a crush on is touching and does make you want to cheer her on, the scenes involving races are gripping, the science fiction is as good as it comes and Mel's writing can be aggravating, but it can also be moving and exciting at the same time.  Some of the negative comments about this story I can't understand, the organism scene lasts for about three lines and is mentioned only one other time and being that teenage girls are teenage girls, is a valid subject for any novel about them, in my opinion.  The things that struck me the most were the rather abrupt ending and the mental comparsions I kept making to Orson Card's classic, which this approaches but alas doesn't surpass or even equal.  Taken on its own terms, it's a highly entertaining young adult novel in the vein of early Heinlein (which is the other author this reminds me of), swift and fun and maybe a little more sophisticated but not much more than that.  Still he hasn't done a bad book yet and if you find this to your fancy, go read A Million Open Doors which is even better.good as it comes and Mel's writing can be aggravating, but it can also be moving and exciting at the same time.  Some of the negative comments about this story I can't understand, the organism scene lasts for about three lines and is mentioned only one other time and being that teenage girls are teenage girls, is a valid subject for any novel about them, in my opinion.  The things that struck me the most were the rather abrupt ending and the mental comparsions I kept making to Orson Card's classic, which this approaches but alas doesn't surpass or even equal.  Taken on its own terms, it's a highly entertaining young adult novel in the vein of early Heinlein (which is the other author this reminds me of), swift and fun and maybe a little more sophisticated but not much more than that.  Still he hasn't done a bad book yet and if you find this to your fancy, go read A Million Open Doors which is even better.	2001-06-17
US	52986477	RYPM6RM9AH991	034532451X	217796281	The Rolling Stones	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Breezy wonders	A typical Heinlein book for young adults and yet one of the better ones.  There are so many of them out there that a new reader probably won't know where to start . . . well this should be one of them.  Heinlein manages to keep the action and dialogue moving fast enough so you don't think about the lack of a plot (it's more episodic than anything else) or how annoying the characters are to anyone but themselves.  This ones about the Stone family, father and mother Stone, grandmother Hazel, sister Meade, baby Lowell, and twins Castor and Pollux.  The twins always have ideas and this time they figure that they'll buy a spaceship, fix it up and go sell stuff out in the solar system.  Except the entire family decides to go along and the fun of the story lies in the many weird things that they run across in their attempts to see the system and make a few bucks along the way.  You get to see Mars (but not any Martians, darn) and Luna and the asteroid belt and all sorts of things, it's not a very deep book but you can't fault it for not being entertaining.  The entire Stone family is entirely super-competant (even the baby can beat anyone in chess!) which can lead to some rather smug dialogue as everyone tries to outsmart each other in that typical Heinlein fashion but old readers should be used to that and new readers better just get used to it quickly or you're not going to get anywhere.  Still the interactions between family members are rather fun, the sights are something to see and they just don't make books this fun anymore.  Don't let the fact that it's a young adult book stop you, if you want some decent entertainment and a fast read, you don't have to look much farther than this novel.	2001-05-02
US	52986477	R3VN6FM4QH6O0H	0446359203	629572192	Carrion Comfort	Books	5	73	79	N	N	It's a meaty book	Normally when people see a book this size, they think to themselves, &quot;Wow what a great paperweight&quot; but that shouldn't be the case here.  Dan Simmons continues to prove that horror fiction is just as much his plaything as science fiction, crafting a big, ambitious novel that succeeds in just about every aspect.  It's scary, it's intimidating, it's complex, it's funny, it's full of characters that you're going to either or love but will be unable to ignore.  Simmons takes the basic concept of vampires and goes in a slightly different direction here, instead of the typical bloodsucking stuff, here we've got psychic vampires who can infilrate the mind and do many unpleasant things.  For the most part the vampires are utterly amoral, using and abusing people with no other impulse other than instant gratification.  Until some people try to get revenge.  Here we've got Saul, a Jewish survivor of the Holocaust who makes it a near obsession to find the monster that invaded his mind in a concentration camp during World War II.  Or Natalie, who is motivated by a tragedy touches her personal life by way of vampires who see people as only pawns in a game.  And then there's Sheriff Rob Gentry, trying to solve a mystery involving a bunch of dead people who apparently went crazy for no apparent reason, murders that seem to be part of a subtle, but disturbing pattern.  These are the building blocks that make up the foundation of the rest of the epic . . . needless to say there are more than enough other characters, and subplots and surprises and intrigue and even horror to keep the reader occupied for many an hour.  To even add to the excitement, a bunch of sections are told from the point of view of one of the vampires and her utterly amoral useage of the people she encounters all the while justifying it with no problem for her own twisted pleasure has to be one of the most horrific aspects to the book, the gap between the reality she perceives and the reality that exists is frightening indeed.  Not that the book is perfect, it probably is a little too long, if you read it in small chunks you're okay but Simmons is very meticulous in his detail, something long time readers are probably used to.  Some things aren't really explained either, one of the vampires is apparently ridiculously more powerful than the others but no one ever says why (but I guess that's horror for you, plus no one really gets the time sit down and discuss it), the concept of &quot;Feeding&quot; he never really goes into even though everyone talks about it, but those are minor complaints indeed.  Where it's supposed to work it does, the action is thrilling, the emotional payoffs are staggering, the truimphs are earned even as the defeats will keep you on the edge of the chair.  If you've got anything more than a passing interest in Dan Simmons or horror, you owe it to yourself to set a week aside and devour this book.  You'll be glad you did.s is frightening indeed.  Not that the book is perfect, it probably is a little too long, if you read it in small chunks you're okay but Simmons is very meticulous in his detail, something long time readers are probably used to.  Some things aren't really explained either, one of the vampires is apparently ridiculously more powerful than the others but no one ever says why (but I guess that's horror for you, plus no one really gets the time sit down and discuss it), the concept of &quot;Feeding&quot; he never really goes into even though everyone talks about it, but those are minor complaints indeed.  Where it's supposed to work it does, the action is thrilling, the emotional payoffs are staggering, the truimphs are earned even as the defeats will keep you on the edge of the chair.  If you've got anything more than a passing interest in Dan Simmons or horror, you owe it to yourself to set a week aside and devour this book.  You'll be glad you did.	2001-04-25
US	52986477	R4UTVFPOG8ITS	0446364754	902465159	Children of the Night	Books	5	28	30	N	N	Fun with science, fun with vampires	A while ago I wrote a review of &quot;Summer of Night&quot; and without realizing what I was doing, called this book a sequel to that book . . . I wasn't completely wrong, this is a spiritual successor to that book, one of the characters from &quot;Summer&quot; plays a big role in events and some of the other characters get at least one mention.  The theme couldn't be any more different though.  Simmons makes the book work on two levels here, trying to tell a thrilling suspense story while at the same time turning the vampire myth completely inside out.  That's right, what he does here is propose a scientific mechanism (based on a recessive mutation) why they have to drink blood and what that means.  This all comes about when the original Vlad Dracula decides that it's time to die and decrees that a new heir must be invested.  Unfortunately the heir gets adopted by an American doctor, who tries to figure out why the baby can go from almost dead to perfectly healthy just be a blood transfusion.  The science part of all of this is fascinating, some of it might be a little more science than people will want to read and if you're not well versed in biology or genetics a good part of it you're just going to have to take on faith and assume he did his research well.  As far as I can tell, everything checks out so hats off to Simmons for taking the time.  So all goes well until the vampires figure out where the kid went and go to get him back.  At this point all the science takes a backseat for a cloak and dagger &quot;let's sneak into a hostile foreign country where anyone could be a spy for the enemy and get the kid out before we're discovered and killed&quot; at which point things become a little more generic but at the same time what sets this apart is Simmons' masterful gift for crafting the perfect sentence to set a mood, he's not as detailed in his descriptions as he has been in the past but he pulls out a good one when he needs to.  The action is burtal and intense, the quieter moments are touching, you can't trust anyone, and it all comes to a rousing conclusion that you may or may not see coming (it didn't strike me until just before the end).  Not &quot;horror&quot; per se, more of a dark adventure but ranks at the very least as one of his most entertaining and inventive books., the quieter moments are touching, you can't trust anyone, and it all comes to a rousing conclusion that you may or may not see coming (it didn't strike me until just before the end).  Not &quot;horror&quot; per se, more of a dark adventure but ranks at the very least as one of his most entertaining and inventive books.	2001-04-11
US	52986477	R296CAV9K42W28	0061056146	540668572	Fires of Eden	Books	5	9	10	N	N	Don't tick off the goddess	If Simmons wasn't such a darn good writer this probably could have been an absurdly silly book, all the warning signs are there.  Giant talking god animals, people dropping like flies, nature rebelling against man's injustice to it, stuff like that.  And yet Simmons pulls it all together and manages to make something good of it.  The setting here is appropriately Hawaii at a hotel that billionaire Bryan Tumbo is trying to desperately sell to the Japanese, unfortunately for him, his few guests keep dying off, killed by some utterly sadistic and vaguely supernatural forces.  Into this mess come our heroes and as things escalate (as you know they will) the puny humans trying to stay alive around the erupting volcanoes becomes a backdrop for the conflict of god versus god.  And really it all works.  Simmons has a knack for making even the patently silly (giant talking pigs with eight eyes) sincerely frightening and while the book probably isn't horror so much as old time adventure (it's pretty scary toward the beginning but once you know what's going on the fright factor goes away) with a bit of a feminist slant you're having too much of a grand old time to really care.  Even better he intersperses the narrative with another narrative taken from someone's diary about similar events in 1866, featuring none other than Samuel Clemens (psst . . . Mark Twain) who Simmons writes so well that if he didn't talk like that, he should have.  The diary also gives Simmons the opportunity to create twice the suspense by flashing back and forth between the two (though less so in the diary, she's obviously writing it after it's all over so you know she has to live to write it).  Of course the story feels more suited for the old fashioned nineteenth century setting but Simmons' gift for description (especially of the contrast between the lush Hawaiian surroundings and the primal violence of the volcano) and his ability to immerse you in that setting.  Events get so over the top after a while that you have no choice but to be swept away with it and his plotting is as deft as ever. And while I thought the climax lacked a bit in suspense it's still entertaining as all heck.  Yeah it won't win him any awards but that's not the point here, he's just out to spin a good yarn and that's what we got...Track it down if you can to see an excellent author cutting loose and having some (admittedly well researched) fun with a story.while that you have no choice but to be swept away with it and his plotting is as deft as ever. And while I thought the climax lacked a bit in suspense it's still entertaining as all heck.  Yeah it won't win him any awards but that's not the point here, he's just out to spin a good yarn and that's what we got...Track it down if you can to see an excellent author cutting loose and having some (admittedly well researched) fun with a story.	2001-04-04
US	52986477	R2R47F188QC5ZG	0345316509	380323119	Job: A Comedy of Justice	Books	5	39	43	N	N	Fun with satire	I've been kind of hard on Heinlein on the last few books of his that I read but that ends here.  Farnham's Freehold might have had a better slate of ideas and Friday might have had a better main character but this book has them both beat hands down.  Heinlein manages to keep doing what he was doing in those other books, which was make comments about society and aspects of it as a whole . . . but here he remembers to have a sense of humor and drops the somewhat snide tone that colored the other two books (ie the &quot;all the enlightened people will see that I make sense and agree with me&quot; feeling).  Our hero, Alex/Alec is a devout and orthodox preacher who goes firewalking while on vacation and from there starts bouncing randomly from world to world.  By the second world he's picked up a girl and is starting to detect a pattern . . . it must be the devil's fault because he's preparing for the upcoming end of the world.  The story starts out as standard science fiction and Heinlein whips out worlds in a few pages that lesser writers would have spent entire series detailing . . . about two thirds through it becomes something utterly unexpected and just as good.  What remains constant is the aforementioned sense of humor, Alex has some interesting views because of his faith that make him seem a bit narrow minded but all in all he's a likable character who really wants to help people (or &quot;save&quot; them by bringing them to a &quot;state of grace&quot; so they'll go to Heaven) . . . he's a typical Heinlein protagonist in that he's always resourceful and resolute, even when it doesn't seem that way.  His gal, Margarete isn't as clearly drawn, she has her good moments but she spends too much time in the &quot;my darling love&quot; mode, but then that's something to be expected from Heinlein's portrayal of women by now . . . still the free love stuff isn't beaten to death like in other novels, he merely makes his point and moves on.  The satire on religion is probably the core of the book and he raises several good points without being needlessly offensive, anyone with half a brain will find something worthwhile here to mull over.  Simply put, probably one of his top three books after Stranger in a Strange Land (still got that soft spot for Moon is a Harsh Mistress, sorry) and definitely renewed my faith in the man, he had plenty of other stuff to say in the latter part of his career and could still do it with an ease that blew everyone else out of the water.bably the core of the book and he raises several good points without being needlessly offensive, anyone with half a brain will find something worthwhile here to mull over.  Simply put, probably one of his top three books after Stranger in a Strange Land (still got that soft spot for Moon is a Harsh Mistress, sorry) and definitely renewed my faith in the man, he had plenty of other stuff to say in the latter part of his career and could still do it with an ease that blew everyone else out of the water.	2001-03-28
US	52986477	R30AMSGUJ1G3B2	034530988X	997219030	Friday	Books	5	13	22	N	N	Love is all around	There are people who proclaim this as their favorite Heinlein book above all others . . . and I can see that simply based on the narrator, spunky Friday.  She's earnest, loving, sensitive, just looking for a family and a need to belong.  However, it's sure not mine.  I liked it sure but after reading several other late period Heinlein novels I just got struck with a feeling that I've seen this before.  The good stuff first: Friday is a courier working for an organization where she doesn't know what they do or why they do it . . . she's also an &quot;artifical person&quot; essentially genetically engineered and there's this weird prejudice against APs for some bizarre reason, since you obviously can't tell them apart.  Sort of like the X-Men, the nornal looking ones at least.  And that's pretty much it.  The book starts out with something resembling a plot but quickly dissolves into a meandering, if entertaining mess . . . all showcasing what Heinlein must have thought as the perfect world.  And in his perfect world there is sex.  Lots of it.  And it's obviously a perfect world from the mind of a male because every woman is bisexual (and I mean every!), every male is heterosexual, everyone sleeps with everyone for really no good reason (&quot;Hey, you're hot, let's have sex!&quot; &quot;Okay!&quot;).  Friday is gangraped in the beginning and really doesn't seem to care all that much.  The plot becomes fairly episodic as Friday careens from one odd situation to the next with only the most tenuous connections linking them . . . the world Heinlein creates predates the rumblings of cyberpunk by a few years but it still feels too antiseptic . . . but plot twists come literally out of nowhere, and impossible coincidences abound, as well as absurdities (come on, every loyal enemy agent instantly switches sides because Friday asks them really nicely?).  Somehow Heinlein manages to keep you reading, even as you can't fathom why Friday is doing the things she does, she says she wants to settle down but then goes back to work, and when she goes back to work she claims she wants to settle down.  Even worse is Heinlein's obvious to do things simply for the sake of shock value, I'm not talking violence, I'm talking brash societal commentary that comes from literally nowhere, the character just makes his point and moves on, like a good little mouthpiece.  Don't get me wrong, this is an entertaining book, except for the digressions into sex and love and why everyone should do it, most of it is at the very least interesting even as it's going nowhere.  It's like watching a car just riding around a very small circular track, fun to watch for a while but eventually you want something to happen.  The fact that he manages to make all of this coherent and readable attests to his genius, even if this isn't the best example of it.  New readers might find some new stuff here but those of us who have been through Stranger in a Strange Land, The Moon is a Harsh Mistress, Time Enough for Love, and I Will Fear No Evil (especially that one!) will find that we've been here before and there's only so much you can say about a one note concept (free love) anyway before it gets tedious.  But don't fret, new readers, the man has done better than this.  Far better.e wants to settle down but then goes back to work, and when she goes back to work she claims she wants to settle down.  Even worse is Heinlein's obvious to do things simply for the sake of shock value, I'm not talking violence, I'm talking brash societal commentary that comes from literally nowhere, the character just makes his point and moves on, like a good little mouthpiece.  Don't get me wrong, this is an entertaining book, except for the digressions into sex and love and why everyone should do it, most of it is at the very least interesting even as it's going nowhere.  It's like watching a car just riding around a very small circular track, fun to watch for a while but eventually you want something to happen.  The fact that he manages to make all of this coherent and readable attests to his genius, even if this isn't the best example of it.  New readers might find some new stuff here but those of us who have been through Stranger in a Strange Land, The Moon is a Harsh Mistress, Time Enough for Love, and I Will Fear No Evil (especially that one!) will find that we've been here before and there's only so much you can say about a one note concept (free love) anyway before it gets tedious.  But don't fret, new readers, the man has done better than this.  Far better.	2001-03-23
US	52986477	R14LCCEMZ7PJZY	0671722069	212768920	Farnham's Freehold	Books	5	5	10	N	N	Heinlein on race relations . . . or not	Is this science-fiction's most contraversial novel?  I'm not sure if I could call it that, there's plenty here to raise eyebrows but I can probably think of three or four SF books that exacted the &quot;contraversial&quot; feeling from me more than this book.  It's typical Heinlein and if you just left it at that, longtime Heinlein fans would probably know exactly what I was talking about.  For those not so blessed, let me explain then. Heinlein generally takes an idea that's a little on the edgy side (here blacks taking over the world after the whites wipe themselves out) and runs with it, having his characters functioning as little more than mouthpieces arguing his points over and over.  If you're into it, you'll forget the lack of extensive plotting and delve into the idea . . . if not then you've got a hard road in front of you.  Farnham and his family take cover in a fallout shelter to avoid a nuclear war . . . the resulting war somehow propels them two thousand years into the future where the Chosen race (guess who?) has taken over and all light skinned folks are used as slaves (among other things, but you'll discover that when you read the book) . . . Farnham gets dropped into this and being the practical self made man that he is, adapts himself while thinking of ways to get out, while Joseph, a young black man who worked for him, sees little problem is taking advantage of the situation, while remaining essentially decent (sort of a &quot;shoe is on the other foot thing&quot; but Heinlein wisely stays away from too much of that line of thinking).  They are about the most well rounded characters, though Farnham is a typical Heinlein protagonist, always thinking, uses his wits, an unshakeable core of his own morality, stuff like that.  Joseph is much the same way.  The women fall into two catagories, either simpering useless wimps (Grace) or mindnumbingly devoted sex kittens, smart and loyal.  Right.  Some of the stuff shown here will definitely make you wonder how much he believed in and how much was pure shock value (and it wouldn't be a Heinlein book without a discussion on sex, this time revolving around incest, but I'll let you discover that one for yourself) but overall it's a swift tale that contains a bunch of ideas that are worth thinking over, mostly how slavery is bad no matter who does it, among other things.  Gear yourself up for it before you read it, because he's not going to make it easy, keep your head above water and you'll make it through, it is a strong novel and not one of his absolute best but maybe strong enough to make the second tier of greats.how much he believed in and how much was pure shock value (and it wouldn't be a Heinlein book without a discussion on sex, this time revolving around incest, but I'll let you discover that one for yourself) but overall it's a swift tale that contains a bunch of ideas that are worth thinking over, mostly how slavery is bad no matter who does it, among other things.  Gear yourself up for it before you read it, because he's not going to make it easy, keep your head above water and you'll make it through, it is a strong novel and not one of his absolute best but maybe strong enough to make the second tier of greats.	2001-03-15
US	52986477	R1F6APTQ9OQPCV	0446605182	650977024	The Naked God: Faith - Part 2 (The Night's Dawn)	Books	5	10	12	N	N	All's well that ends well	It's going to be hard talking about this without revealing plot points but I'm going to do my best.  If you're reading this you're either reading because you want to see if someone agreed with your opinion or you're curious about the series and want to see if it's worth it.  The former folks I can't do anything about but to the latter I can definitely say it's worth the trip.  The last book in the series mostly wraps up the myriad of major plots, granted they converge in a way never thought possible but at the same time it was fairly exciting how they all suddenly merged.  The action is as rapid as ever and Hamilton deftly keeps things moving to the point where you're literally flipping through pages because the pace is just that rapid.  The characters are . . . well, toward the end they start falling into the traps of their own stereotypes, Quinn Dexter was never the most three dimensional of people but he gets tiresomely predictable as the book winds to a close, while even the good characters tend to start wallowing in their own goodness.  Still it's a classic good versus evil fight with some wacky philosophy thrown in and generally that requires its character to be living embodiments of goodness or vile evil, Hamilton normally handles it well but sometimes you just want to roll your eyes.  The ending isn't as much abrupt as really &quot;deux es machina&quot; but if you can figure out a way to wrap all that up without writing an entirely new book, I'd like to see folks try.  It wasn't the perfect ending that I was hoping for but at the same time it didn't ruin the book for me like others are claiming.  All in all the entire series is a very satisfying experience, it's sort of sad to finish it since if you've been following this since the beginning it's been nearly three years  and over three thousand pages, this people good or bad start to become sort of like part of your family.  Hamilton should be praised for making one of the best future histories to come along for a long time, it's detailed and more importantly it's a place (well before that whole possession thing) that I wouldn't mind living in, full of action and adventure and political intrigue, he could theoretically mine the setting for stories for years.  I don't think since Larry Niven's Known Space series have we seen that.  Is the series perfect?  No, it's not, but there isn't any single problem that I could see that made the books less worthy or anything that made want to stop reading.  There was something for everyone here and what we got was one of the greatest SF epics of the last ten or so years that raised a bunch of interesting concepts (and distilled a bunch more, Hamilton wasn't utterly original but it's what you do with the concepts that counts), was vastly entertaining and entirely readable (except when you skip a few years in between reading, don't make that mistake) and it's a series who's reputation will only grow in the years to come.for a long time, it's detailed and more importantly it's a place (well before that whole possession thing) that I wouldn't mind living in, full of action and adventure and political intrigue, he could theoretically mine the setting for stories for years.  I don't think since Larry Niven's Known Space series have we seen that.  Is the series perfect?  No, it's not, but there isn't any single problem that I could see that made the books less worthy or anything that made want to stop reading.  There was something for everyone here and what we got was one of the greatest SF epics of the last ten or so years that raised a bunch of interesting concepts (and distilled a bunch more, Hamilton wasn't utterly original but it's what you do with the concepts that counts), was vastly entertaining and entirely readable (except when you skip a few years in between reading, don't make that mistake) and it's a series who's reputation will only grow in the years to come.	2001-03-13
US	52986477	R324SGLZ6VYON6	0446608971	650977024	The Naked God, Part 1: Flight	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Racing towards the finish	If you're this far into the series already, is anything I say really going to sway you either way?  So I guess this will be targeted towards new readers who might be wondering if they should invest in reading thousands of pages if the later books stink to high heaven.  Rest assured, dear reader, the first half of the last book keeps the same quality as the other books, I've found this to be almost conpulsive in making me keep turning pages, Hamilton as the rare ability to keep plots spinning and zips you through so many plots that while you can keep them straight (most of the time) you rarely get bored.  Most of the plots are fairly crucial more or less to the final cascading plot, so moreso than others and they are more wildly split by distance and importance than the other books but we're still treated to lots of action and some philosophy, everyone is getting gtim as they move the players into the last stages of the battle, we're getting near do or die time folks.  The intensity is almost unrelenting sometimes and some of the payoffs are better than others but Hamilton leavens it out with enough humor or horror to keep things interesting, his characters may not be the most well rounded people in existence but they are a fun bunch that you won't mind cozying up to for seven hundred pages (or more if you've been reading since the beginning).  There's not much I can say without giving away the plot to the entire series, if I skimp too much it sounds like &quot;Same old same old&quot; I mean yes the possessed are still taking over people and those folks not possessed are trying to stop it and everyone's fighting or trying to find solutions or whatnot . . . but if I go into too much detail then I'll be giving away too much or it won't make any sense.  So let me just say that if you're read this far you probably won't be disappointed and if you're thinking of starting, the quality of the series tends to remain high throughout, which is a rare occurrance these days.  Hopefully the ending will be just as good, we'll see I guess.pefully the ending will be just as good, we'll see I guess.	2001-03-05
US	52986477	R1Z0SVB0ZKG8UE	0020248717	822313929	Way Station (A Collier Nucleus Science Fiction Classics)	Books	5	106	110	N	N	Overlooked classic	Most people have never heard of Clifford Simak unless they're longtime SF fans and even those that have tend to gravitate more toward his other classic &quot;City&quot; but those who do, or even those who makes the mistake of ignoring him completely are making a grave error.  This book is the equal of any SF classic based purely on the strength of its ideas and subtle conviction in those ideas.  It doesn't have an ultracomplicated structure or a hip &quot;postmodern&quot; attitude but the attitude is does have is quiet and understated and undeniably brilliant.  What's it all about?  Basically Enoch Wallace has been living in his house for what seems like years and years and years but his neighbors are folk who don't question stuff like that.  Turns out that Wallace is way older than anyone can think of and his house serves as one of the crossroads of the galaxy, with strange and fascinating aliens visiting him as they pass through, leaving him with a house cluttered with strange and wonderful treasures that he can hardly begin to contemplate . . . while at the same time wondering what all this means to Earth and its place in the galactic community.  But forces are closing in on what he actually is while at the same time forces across the farflung galaxy are pushing forward events that even the aliens involved are hardly ready for.  What makes this novel so good is not it's depiction of the bizarre array of philosophical and imaginative aliens, although that's part of it, Simak throws out alien races in a few sentences that other authors could spend entire novels trying to explain and describe.  No, what makes it good is its unwavering faith in humanity, Wallace and the aliens might not have a high opinion of people at times but for all our dirty little mannerisms, in the end we've got just as much potential as everyone else.  That, coupled with his pastoral views of the  land around the house and the simple beauty of the untamed wilderness makes for a book mostly light on action but great in depth, Wallace is one of the rare totally three dimensional SF characters, content in his mission but still wondering what it all means even as everyday brings new wonders to light.  I thought this book was going to be good but I was amazed at how excellent it was.  One of the alltime classics.ght on action but great in depth, Wallace is one of the rare totally three dimensional SF characters, content in his mission but still wondering what it all means even as everyday brings new wonders to light.  I thought this book was going to be good but I was amazed at how excellent it was.  One of the alltime classics.	2001-02-27
US	52986477	R2M0TOI696G5AP	0312862857	203441457	Celestis	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Grippingly difficult	Casual readers won't find this a fun ride at all, this is a book that makes a grab for literary status and just about succeeds.  I'm not familiar with Paul Park's other works but this definitely impressed me and showed that science fiction can be more than just people shooting at each other with laser guns, it can be a frank examination of what we are and where we're going, just because the setting is another planet and the characters can't all be called &quot;human&quot;, means nothing.  Here we've got Simon and Katherine, the former a human working for the diplomats on Celestis and the other an alien that has taken drugs and had surgery so that she can be more &quot;human&quot; in both look and thoughts.  But when they get kidnapped by rebels, Katherine is cut off from her medicine and starts to go back to what she was originally . . . her slow descent (or ascent, depending on your will) into her basic &quot;alieness&quot; is well handled and Park strings us along like a master?  Does the book move slowly?  Yeah, it does and the dream sequences at first glance appear to only be there as a literary exercise, something to fill space with.  But when examined you can see that they're key pieces to the stories, like all dreams they have a bit of truth and a bit of nonsense to them but like the best dreams they reverberate.  This isn't a happy book by any stretch of the imagination, the planet is shackled, the people don't want to be there, hope isn't in high quantities.  But yet everyone survives and through Park's mastery of detail we get to see it all, he makes his aliens seem like aliens and his people, while they're people you might know, sometimes they don't seem too far from aliens themselves.  Like I said, not an easy book but one of the more important SF works of the nineties and not one you can easily ignore.	2001-02-25
US	52986477	R1U9SBFUU4AUCD	0345330129	439022701	The Door into Summer	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Bright and optimistic	I think this is probably one of Heinlein's most optimistic novels, for once the protagonist isn't wrestling with some great social injustice or attempting to navigate his way through the social complexities of either the present day or some vaguely defined future . . . simply put, it's a book that's fun and one that makes you cheer the good guy for being himself and in the sheer pleasure of watching him come back from left field to pull out a victory using only his wits and ingenuity.  Here that man is Dan Davis, a man who loves his cat and loves inventing.  He's not too good at business so he has a good friend help him and eventually they hire a beautiful secretary . . . eventually both screw him over royally and get him thrown into &quot;Cold Sleep&quot;, where he sleeps for thirty years until the year 2000.  The middle section of the book is mostly devoted to showing how different and similar the future world might be, I don't think Heinlein seriously thought he could predict the future (to this date, no SF author has, they're not futurologists) because it's nothing like our world, however it's darn refreshing to see a world where the future is actually better than the present in just about every way . . . too many SF novels have dark depressing futures that their characters just want to escape from.  The plotting here is swift, the twists, while you can probably see most of them coming it's fun to see how they're executed (that's ninety percent of the trick sometimes) and the main characters that you're supposed to like are fun, while you can't help but boo the characters you're not supposed to like.  Even the cat is fun.  Though, am I the only one who finds the relationship between Dan and his friend's stepdaughter Ricky to be just a little bit . . . disturbing?  Maybe I'm reading too much into it.  All in all not a deeply complex book and not one that will take up most of your time, but it's probably one of everyone's favorite Heinlein's books (if only for the supurbly evocative title) and ranks as one of his most memorable.supurbly evocative title) and ranks as one of his most memorable.	2001-02-21
US	52986477	R1AQP7FSDG1DOV	0345353110	44414098	Space Cadet	Books	5	4	6	N	N	Fun for everyone	I think this one was actually written more for both kids and adults . . . it's sort of a watered down Starship Troopers, but while that book was harsh and brutal, this one is much more lighthearted . . . there's some seriousness to it but it's more of the &quot;aw gee whiz I hope we make it&quot; type of deal.  It follows the tale of a group of young adults who wish to join the Space Patrol, a guardian force (the quote they use as a slogan is the Latin form of &quot;Who Watches the Watchmen&quot; for those who read Alan Moore) that's fairly hard to get into (harder than the Marines, even!) . . . and so we witness the truimph and tragedy of these three or four youngsters as they go through training and more training to get to where they want to be.  Most of the characters aren't what you'd call well rounded, Matt Dodson is about the best, Tex is utterly annoying, a good ol' boy redneck who if he mentioned is &quot;Uncle Bodie&quot; one more blasted time I was going to throw the book across the room, while the other two mostly are ciphers, sort of there to help the plot move along.  Needless to say, the adventures they sustain are highly interesting, Heinlein interjects a lot of stuff that adults can think about, stuff about the role of a peacekeeping force, whether you can atom bomb your hometown, meaty stuff like that.  The &quot;golly gee whillickers&quot; factor is pretty high unfortunately, but remember we're talking SF written for kids in the fifties, we're lucky that we have the sophication it does and Heinlein was light years ahead of just about everyone but Asimov.  It winds up on Venus (again, weren't we just here in Between Planets?) and the natives there turn out to be the most interestingly worked out part . . . and even they're just tossed off.  The climax comes completely out of nowhere (they can synthesize liquid oxygen . . . come on, but it was a different time kids) but it all ends happily and you can't complain that it's not entertaining.  Again, light read that probably isn't worth the high paperback price today, but if you see it used snap it up for yourself or a younger relative, you won't be sorry.ght read that probably isn't worth the high paperback price today, but if you see it used snap it up for yourself or a younger relative, you won't be sorry.	2001-02-16
US	52986477	R10FAQDA2NCABS	0345350596	962163505	The Star Beast	Books	5	2	6	N	N	Light entertainment	Definitely not a book if you're looking for some highbrow cutting statement on current affairs or the human race as a whole, this is mostly just a fun little novel for young adults that Heinlein wrote and if you approach it with that thought in mind there won't be any trouble at all.  What we have here is young John Thomas (which oddly enough is British slang for something I can't mention here) who has been raising an animal from the stars that his grandfather brought back . . . it talks in a little girl voice, eats everything in sight and is fairly docile, the perfect pet so to speak.  Except things aren't that simple and when Lummox (the cute critter's name) goes on a bit of a walkabout, the town gets upset, the local interplantary authority gets involved and then things start getting strange . . . the book does a sudden shift over to intergalactic politics, the machinations of which probably went way over kids' heads but were exciting enough to read anyway . . . aliens show up, the fate of the planet almost comes in jeopardy and a fine time is had by all.  The characters here seem a bit more obnoxious than usual, most are either totally full of themselves in how right they are (most of the women are utterly annoying either being simpering wimps like Thomas' mother or irritating know-it-alls like his quasi-girlfriend Betty) and even the men get into the act as well, which can get on your nerves depending on your mood at the time.  The widening of the scope of the book and focusing more on the government stuff was a smart idea, John Thomas' town is too full of simpleminded and one dimensional people to be that interesting, if you get past about the first half of the book, then you're all set and the rest should be easy.  A quick read, probably not worth the six bucks you'd pay for it these days, but fun enough and a good way to get a younger kid interested in SF, or even if you're on a nostalgia trip, since it holds up fairly well over time.	2001-02-16
US	52986477	R3CO3US9I2KFPW	0345320999	971763862	Between Planets	Books	5	9	12	N	N	Open sky!	Just for the record, before I launch into this, I have absolutely no problem with Heinlein's depiction of whether there was life on Venus (or Mars) or whether people could safety live on either.  I don't know if Heinlein actually believed that back then (as a lot of folks did, we're talking the days before satellites, kids) or he just figured the cardinal rule of fun writing: don't let science get in the way of a good story.  And he sure doesn't, Heinlein draws us into a pure SF adventure story that rockets around the solar system, as seen through the eyes of one Don Harvey, who really only wants to get back to Mars to see his parents.  In the process he gets accosted by an irate Earth government (and Heinlein's depiction of an almost authoritarian Earth was probably a social comment that went way above the heads of his target audience . . . but then this is the guy who thought Starship Troopers was a childrens book), winds up on Venus and gets involved in the revolution (Viva!).  It's mostly nonstop action and the settings are fun, if you can suspend your disbelief and take yourself back to a time where it was possible that there was life on Venus and we might one day wind up there, and I don't see why you can't, you'll find yourself enjoying this despite everything.  Harvey is hilariously stubborn when it comes to just about everything, the aliens are interesting in a nonscience way, plot twists abound, and a grand time is had by all.  Sure, Heinlein sticks in some of his usual &quot;the army makes a man out of you and it's the only good life&quot; stuff that eventually became the central concept of Starship Troopers (not that I didn't enjoy that book, mind you), by and by, this is optimistic endearing science fiction with some pointed messages but nothing too deep or heavy.  It's just an enjoyably fun way to spend two hundred pages.	2001-02-10
US	52986477	R295HY104ZI1K7	068419211X	862123538	Time for the Stars	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Swift entertainment	This book goes to show you the different attitudes prevailing in SF compared between the fifties when this book was written and the ideas today.  Today, if someone took the concept of twins being separated by relativistic effects (ie one ages faster than the other . . . go read a physics textbook for the equations) it'd be a massive complex novel detailing the cultural shock and changes, the emotional cost, and mostly have a really downer attitude about it, treating it, for the most part &quot;realistically&quot; whatever that's supposed to mean in science fiction.  But that's now and we're talking about then.  Here Heinlein takes two vastly different concepts, telepathy between twins and the travelling between the stars in ships moving at barely sub-light speeds.  The focus here is on both SF adventure and what it means to leave everything you know and have not only your entire family grow old and die while you age much slower but have the whole world change (Heinlein's future slang is a gas), while you stay the same.  It's a fun story, and the main character, the twin that goes, narrates his story somberly but still with a dash of zest in his voice, for all the regret he feels at being left behind, he's having a grand adventure and seeing things that no one else has ever seen.  Not that it's all fun and games and a lot of things happen before the mission is over, some good and some bad.  Like I said, it's a light story, you won't find anything totally deep here but it's all handled capably, as you'd imagine a master like Heinlein dealing with this . . . but please don't read it as a gender study guide and keep in mind that it was written in the fifties, when women weren't expected to do all that much.  Asking permission from your husband for just about everything was the order of the day mostly . . . just don't let it bother you.  Other than that, it's good solid fun, though the ending comes totally out of left field (unless I missed something), but it's a great example of the golden age of SF, when anything seemed possible.  For those who want a slightly darker take on the same subject . . . go read Joe Haldeman's The Forever War and that should knock the depress-o-meter right off the scale.  Still a good book though.  They're both good.  Read them both, now!xample of the golden age of SF, when anything seemed possible.  For those who want a slightly darker take on the same subject . . . go read Joe Haldeman's The Forever War and that should knock the depress-o-meter right off the scale.  Still a good book though.  They're both good.  Read them both, now!	2001-02-09
US	52986477	R2CXPXRRRCGIZN	0553289675	513979779	The War in Heaven	Books	5	3	4	N	N	STILL answering questions with questions	Danlo alas keeps this sporadically annoying habit that's so much a part of his nature throughout what I think is probably the last in the series of books that began with Neverness (for everyone but Danlo) or The Broken God (for Danlo himself).  While the last book was a strange, yet oddly intoxicating mixture of philosophy and SF, it lacked the intrinsic cohension that the first book had somehow managed to convey, maybe because of the sublime setting of the city of Neverness, about the finest and best detailed futuristic city in all of SF.  Here, after a brief start, we're back in Neverness as Danlo tries to keep war from breaking out and tries, to various degrees of success, to also piece together all the fragments of problems he's either been involved in or created.  Zindell sets up quite the dilemma for all the protagonists, not only has the Order of Pilots fragmented and is threatening to fight the other (one part's in exile, the other part is falling sway to a new religion started by Danlo's former best friend and based on the fact that his father might have become a god), the Warrior-Poets are trying to kill anyone who might become a god, Neverness is falling into riots as the Ringists are killing all the nonbelievers.  Danlo has never seemed more human and less human here, his very much tries to keep to his vow not to harm anyone and for the most part keeps it, but he's sorely tempted otherwise.  He runs into old friends and enemies and enemies who used to be friends (yeah, we're talking to you, Hanuman).  This is the most brutal of the three books and Danlo doesn't have an easy time of things, however, as exhilerating as it is to have him succeed, the efforts almost make him seem superhuman and as the book winds to a close, you wonder if ANYTHING can stop this guy.  Some points of the book also fall prey to Philosopy Syndrome, where Zindell drowns you in pretty prose depicting Danlo debating some inner struggle, which while great to read and has some absolutely beautiful writing, makes you want to shout at the book &quot;Get on with it already!&quot;.  But I can't say I didn't like this book, heck, I more than just liked it, this was a satisfying end to the cycle that builds on what came before and takes it to new places.  Danlo is one of the best characters to appear in the last decade, and the rest of the people are all lovingly detailed, no one is all good, no one is all bad, everyone has reasons and motivations, some you agree with, some you don't.  The clarity and scope of Zindell's ideas, enough to make you think without making your head hurt, are fascinating and his attention to detail, both in dialogue and description and philosophy, will make you want to read the entire series again and again.  Even with Danlo's annoying question habit, this has to rank as one of the finest series of the last couple of years, without a doubt.ely beautiful writing, makes you want to shout at the book &quot;Get on with it already!&quot;.  But I can't say I didn't like this book, heck, I more than just liked it, this was a satisfying end to the cycle that builds on what came before and takes it to new places.  Danlo is one of the best characters to appear in the last decade, and the rest of the people are all lovingly detailed, no one is all good, no one is all bad, everyone has reasons and motivations, some you agree with, some you don't.  The clarity and scope of Zindell's ideas, enough to make you think without making your head hurt, are fascinating and his attention to detail, both in dialogue and description and philosophy, will make you want to read the entire series again and again.  Even with Danlo's annoying question habit, this has to rank as one of the finest series of the last couple of years, without a doubt.	2001-02-05
US	52986477	R351JBPRGCVU1I	0006497128	215136979	The Wild (Requiem for Homo Sapiens)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	If you thought there was lots o' thinking in the LAST book	Zindell takes them up another notch here, both increasing the &quot;philosophy&quot; department and the &quot;science-fiction&quot; department at the same time.  Here, Danlo (our hero) ventures into the Vild with a bunch of other Pilots in an attempt to find a cure to the disease that might just ravage his people . . . and maybe in the process find out just what his father became, if he's even still alive.  And to say that this just scratches the surface of the stuff that's going here isn't any hyperbole at all.  Before the quest is over (if it really ends) Danlo will find himself talking to gods, visiting strange worlds, playing a game of wits with an assassin and basically trying to avoid getting killed by basically not trying to avoid getting killed (it makes more sense in the book).  It's a change of pace from the last book on the surface only, there's more science-fictional elements but since Danlo is visiting different cultures with different technologies it's perhaps inevitable and Zindell throws out enough ideas to give a horde of other writers enough meat to work with for years.  At the same time, the philosophy has become more cutting, I think Zindell is hiding some of his own comments on various subjects, religion in particular, or even just having too much belief in any one thing.  Danlo remains as fun as ever, though it is becoming a bit of a running joke that he tends to answer everyone's questions with questions of his own, but hey, it's part of the fun.  Most of the characters are well rounded, more than just mouthpieces for various arguments (most of them at least) . . . if there's anyone I could compare this too, it'd have to be Isaac Asimov, since at the core his novels always were two people debating some highbrow concept for a bunch of pages . . . while at the same time there was very little action.  Same here.  If you want rampaging shoot 'em ups with bodies piled everywhere and wild careening space fights and people saying things like &quot;So, Zolar, we meet again&quot;, this isn't the place to look.  However if you want a brooding, thoughtful SF epic that might just stimulate the brain cells a bit and make you care about the wacky people infesting this book, well here you go.  It's right here., Zolar, we meet again&quot;, this isn't the place to look.  However if you want a brooding, thoughtful SF epic that might just stimulate the brain cells a bit and make you care about the wacky people infesting this book, well here you go.  It's right here.	2001-01-28
US	52986477	R1PVPBQBNE94NM	0586211896	641187812	The Broken God: Requiem for Homo Sapiens Bk. 1	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Lots o' thinking	This is a massive book but well worth the investment of your time.  I didn't get a chance to read the &quot;prequel&quot; to this book Neverness (out of print . . . as is this book, but when I bought this one the other two books in the trilogy were in print still . . . how is that? what good is keeping the last two books of a trilogy in print if we can't read how it started . . . ah, but I'm ranting) but Zindell keeps you up to date and other than sharing some characters I think they really are two seperate books that happen to take place in the same world.  This book follows Danlo the Wild, who lived out in the icy wastes with his tribe until they all get killed by some virus, at which point he comes to the city of Neverness and starts to get aquainted with his new home.  The city of Neverness is probably one of the most fully realized series in science fiction, Zindell put as much work into it as Frank Herbert did when making Dune and if you want a cross-genre comparsion, I'd even say Ulysses, if only because of its singular depiction of a city and the people who live there, even if the books are about two completely different things.  What I must say is that Zindell's imagination is amazing, the reason the city breathes the way it does is because he has taken the time to work out all the cults and factions and the people who partake in them and the complicated political and social structure of such a city and the forces it might take to disrupt such a thing.  Still, this is Danlo's story overall and it follows his adventures.  There's not a whole bunch of action, it's mostly people debating various religions/philosophies for many pages but Zindell has a rare gift for description that you rarely see anymore, his prose has a flowing poetic style, he can go on for pages just about someone's thoughts and you don't even notice because the words are chosen so well.  Danlo is completely three dimensional, while caring and sensitive, he's also stubborn and just a tad wild.  The people he comes in contact with who change him and who he changes aren't people you're going to likely forget.  The one complaint is that the ending is a bit unresolved, it's obvious Zindell is setting us up for the rest of the series, but the ending is a bit of a letdown.  Still after several hundred pages of near perfection, you really can't complain.  I believe this is still out of print but definitely worth picking up if you can find it, it's one of the few modern day classics of science-fiction, a deep thinking, probing novel that'll stay with you long after you finish it.d.  The people he comes in contact with who change him and who he changes aren't people you're going to likely forget.  The one complaint is that the ending is a bit unresolved, it's obvious Zindell is setting us up for the rest of the series, but the ending is a bit of a letdown.  Still after several hundred pages of near perfection, you really can't complain.  I believe this is still out of print but definitely worth picking up if you can find it, it's one of the few modern day classics of science-fiction, a deep thinking, probing novel that'll stay with you long after you finish it.	2001-01-23
US	52986477	R1CJXG64PVNDTI	0446605468	588826816	The Neutronium Alchemist: Part II - Conflict	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Some of the best stuff around	I'll have to echo a comment that I made when I read the last book and that's read these books as close together as you can, there's so much stuff to remember that even a week break like I had can make you &quot;huh?&quot; at certain points when people refer to things that you only have a vague memory of occuring (heck Laton is mentioned so many times that I wanted to stop and read the first two books so I can remember exactly what that was all about) . . . but that says more about my faulty memory then anything Hamilton is doing wrong.  This is a BIG series, probably the biggest and most ambitious SF series of the decade and it demands you entire attention.  You don't read this book (or any of the books) so much as consume them in great galloping blocks of pages, the urge for &quot;just one more chapter&quot; is still very strong and over a thousand pages into the series that can only be good.  The quality doesn't let up from the first book, I couldn't tell much of a difference, but this one is a tad more satisifying because it completes a major plot line that started in the first book (three guesses what that is) while throwing up hints and more sub-plots that make you want to go out and devour the last book right away.  The conflict between the dead and the living heat up and Hamilton starts to get further into what happens when everyone figures out that they're fighting something that they will eventually become, as well as the larger question of: if the Beyond is all we have to look forward to, what's the point of anything?  The ways he shows people dealing with that rings very true.  Most of the other stuff involves trying to find Mzu and her Alchemist before the dead get her and it . . . and it's definitely a tense race.  Hamilton is a master at stringing the reader along from plot to plot, leaving little explosions of suspense and intrigue to keep you hungry for the next development.  All in all, a great ending to the second proper book in the series and if he manages to wrap all of this up neatly (I've no idea how he's going to but it's sure going to be fun finding out) he'll probably find this ranked as one of the greatest SF series of all time.  Great characterization, dazzling plotting, and daring ideas, this is what SF is supposed to be about, last I checked.e manages to wrap all of this up neatly (I've no idea how he's going to but it's sure going to be fun finding out) he'll probably find this ranked as one of the greatest SF series of all time.  Great characterization, dazzling plotting, and daring ideas, this is what SF is supposed to be about, last I checked.	2001-01-18
US	52986477	R38HYIRP24N9AE	0446605174	308807594	The Neutronium Alchemist: Part I - Consolidation	Books	5	18	18	N	N	Read right after the last book	This book was great, don't get me wrong, but if you're committed to reading the entire series (ie you've read the Reality Dyfunction and want to see how it all ends eventually) do yourself a favor and start reading right after the Reality Dyfunction.  I made that mistake and waited a few years in between (hey I do have other things to do) and attempting to dive in, at least in the beginning, can be rough going.  Fortunately Hamilton does his best to bring readers up to speed on the run but he can't explain everything without bogging it all down in lengthy backwards exposition and so you've just got to figure it out as you go.  On the book itself, it's just as good as the first two books, just in a different way.  The Reality Dyfunction was good for the shock of its ideas, both for the complexity and gritty hardness of Hamilton's universe and the central concept of the dead coming back and taking over people (which could have turned into some cliched horror deal, but didn't).  This book shows that the last one wasn't a fluke and he can actually develop all those ideas of the last novel into something workable.  Thus, there aren't all out firefights and breakneck action here, mostly a retrenching as the characters gear up for the inevitable second conflict.  We get to see how the possessed are trying to fortify their positions and how the living are trying to reclaim their worlds.  Through it all there's an impressive knot of political and social machinations, as everyone tries to manipulate the crap out of everyone else.  The characters are all still well defined and sometimes still surprising, which is good considering how much time you have to spend with some of them.  There are lots of plots spinning around but don't fret, none of them are horribly complex and there's little overlap and Hamilton avoids the problems of some authors (ahem . . . Robert Jordan) by not giving his million characters all similar sounding names so you can't tell them apart.  It's a quieter book that simmers with closed intensity, which will probably explode in the next book.  Don't even think of starting this one without having read the Reality Dyfunction, it won't make any sense at all and you'll just be hurting yourself.  But this is the next logical step after that book and a welcome one.  And I don't know what everyone else thinks, but I liked the idea of Al Capone showing up, talk about adapting to yourself situation.  Great stuff, and I've learned from my mistakes, I'm reading the second part of this as we speak.  Review on that to come shortly, not that anyone is out there waiting.  Pity.r book that simmers with closed intensity, which will probably explode in the next book.  Don't even think of starting this one without having read the Reality Dyfunction, it won't make any sense at all and you'll just be hurting yourself.  But this is the next logical step after that book and a welcome one.  And I don't know what everyone else thinks, but I liked the idea of Al Capone showing up, talk about adapting to yourself situation.  Great stuff, and I've learned from my mistakes, I'm reading the second part of this as we speak.  Review on that to come shortly, not that anyone is out there waiting.  Pity.	2001-01-10
US	52986477	RA0L1YN3Q2NKL	9995176378	51025627	Somewhere East of Life	Books	5	5	5	N	N	He still has it	Generally when you go to read books by authors who are years past their absolute peak works you're not expecting much.  Thus far Aldiss has wowed me with NonStop and the Helliconia Trilogy and while this book didn't make me proclaim it as the savior of literature, it's a darn fine novel and can easily go toe to toe with most of the new authors that show up every year or so.  The idea here is that poor Roy lives in a very near future in a world much like ours, where he acts as a preserver, taking pictures and documenting old churches and the like before the civil unrest in the area reaches it and it gets bombed into oblivion.  In any event, Roy unfortunately gets ten years of his memory stolen by folks who package them into &quot;bullets&quot; and sell them to people who want to experience the lives of other people, currently the newest illegal craze.  Roy, adrift and confused, now has to try and put his life back together while dealing with the fact that not only does he have an ex-wife but he doesn't even remember being married at all, while at the same time trying to find his memories so he can get them back.  The plot takes a bit of an episodic spin at that point, which is probably the best way to go since it gives Aldiss a chance to show his world off and make some comments about the world we live in.  Roy travels from danger spot to danger spot, running into violence and warlords, armies and relics, all the while trying to figure out just what effect the last ten years had on him and just what went wrong with his ex-wife.  Definitely engaging, always thought-provoking, this is all too often overlooked in his list of decent books, don't make a mistake and miss this.	2001-01-05
US	52986477	R2VDHUGQ2EUXTB	1857989090	301591282	Pasquale's Angel	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Those wacky alternate histories	I don't know enough about Italian history (which is probably sad, being that I'm Italian) to say definitely where history went wacky and we got this book but I can say that this is definitely a book that can be worth your time.  McAuley has turned into one of the more versatile and consistent authors around, especially in SF.  He may not be world shatteringly exceptional but he rarely repeats himself and his writing is clear and concise, not relying on complicated narrative structure or knotted sentences.  Here he presents a gritty, almost industrial age Italy where Da Vinci didn't really go into art but instead made lots of engineering feats and kick started a whole lot of things before they should have been kicked into starting.  Pasquale is a young artist who happens to be drawn into the murder of one of the assistents of the &quot;immortal&quot; (ignore the book jacket when it says that, he's as mortal as everyone else) Rapheal.  He is joined by a reporter who used to be a noted political figure before his downfall (I won't even try spelling his name) and together they try to piece together what turns out to be a large conspiracy that is apparently everywhere.  McAuley does a great job of churning out a first rate murder mystery, plots and suspects rebound with apparent ease and your head is spinning by both his great attention to period detail and almost left field plot twists.  However, at some point the conspiracy gets so complicated that it stops making sense at all and towards the end you're probably going to start scratching your head and wondering what the heck is going on.  Don't fret, buckle down and keep going and while everyone might not be explained to your satisifaction, McAuley manages to pull a resolution out that makes everyone mostly worthwhile.  McAuley's an author that instead of stunning us with one far out book, has steadily and swiftly built up a solid record of varied and entertaining science-fiction/fantasy, and if this book is any indication, his track record should hold long into the future.tion, his track record should hold long into the future.	2001-01-05
US	52986477	R65OEJYKGEK2M	0441005667	204362253	Forever Peace	Books	5	3	5	N	N	Peace through oblivion	There are two ways to interpret the title, which you'll understand more as you read the book.  One way to get &quot;forever peace&quot; is for all of us to realize that war is very very bad and that we should stop before we just wipe everyone out, while the other interpretation is that if the entire universe just up and died, then it'd be peace forever because there's no one around anymore.  Is that strange?  Because I think it is.  Anyhow, now that I've got you reading, I should also note that this is not a sequel to The Forever War, his much earlier, much more significant novel, if either novel ceased to exist you could read the other without any problem.  What this does do is take some of the themes in the first book (ie military life being degrading) and attempting to come to the same conclusion in a different fashion, albeit shaped by years of maturing and experience.  So what we have here is soliders mentally linked to each other to control &quot;soldierboys&quot; mechanized killing machines essentially.  Doing so links the nine soldiers together in a way that involves total intimacy and it's this world where war is fought by impersonal machine while the soldiers in the group are closer than even lovers that Haldeman makes his case.  Seems that a science group has figured out how to redo the Big Bang, the only problem being that it'll really cause the Big Bang and destroy just about everything.  They're about to pull the plug when a secretive religious group with higherups placed in the government decides that it'd be a great idea if it continued.  Confused?  You won't be, Haldeman pulls everything along with a natural grace that whiles it lacks the fire and passion that drove The Forever War, still stands as a fine book that will make you think about war and peace and what it all means.  You mean not totally buy into his concepts or the themes but the central idea is one you should find yourself considering just the same.  Pretty cover too, with a single white dove flying alone and silently through shattered ruins.  Give the artist who did that an extra few bucks (especially since they got rid of that great planets falling through an hourglass cover on The Forever War . . . it's just some stupid medal now, what's up with that?).  He deserves it.  And you should read this and not just stare at the pretty cover.  Please?e dove flying alone and silently through shattered ruins.  Give the artist who did that an extra few bucks (especially since they got rid of that great planets falling through an hourglass cover on The Forever War . . . it's just some stupid medal now, what's up with that?).  He deserves it.  And you should read this and not just stare at the pretty cover.  Please?	2001-01-05
US	52986477	R1D0UFDCBTX98R	0345422554	369510298	Polgara the Sorceress (Malloreon)	Books	5	45	49	N	N	Fitting cap, if only for fans	If you haven't read the Belgariad (mostly) or the Malloreon, then don't even bother picking this up because you probably aren't going to know what the heck is going on.  David Eddings seems to polarize people even more than say, Robert Jordan, there are people like me who have read the Belgariad a million times (and I generally don't read books more than once) and there are folks who spit in his general direction upon hearing the name Eddings.  So I'm biased.  Who isn't?  Like the similiarily gigantic Belgarath, this is basically the three thousand year history of Eddings' world told from the point of view of the woman who wound up guarding the line of Rivan kings for about a thousand years or so.  Polgara is an engaging narrator and even though she's going events that we know a lot about already, her perspective is both different from the omniscient narrator of the series and Belgarath's from the other book.  The thing I most liked about the Eddings' books (at least initially) was they had a bit of a gentle, homespun quality.  There may have been high sorcery and world shattering events going on around everyone but you got a sense of wonder and a feeling that these are regular people being thrust into something that's been going on forever that they have little conception of.  Of course that's Eddings' best and worst trait as a writer.  He's pretty much incapable of detailing complex emotions in any way shape or form and over the course of seven hundred pages it can get tedious, it's never less than entertaining but you may want to take short breaks from the book before going back to it.  It's also very slow moving, because being immortal is mostly sitting around and waiting for stuff to happen.  With Polgara being three thousand years old, it takes a while to get anywhere and there's a lot of repetition in events, heck, even the Rivan king names start repeating after a while.  Also, for some reason, every fantasy writer except for Tolkein decides that he has to give his or her personal view of male/female relationships, Jordan is notorious for this and it never really bothered me in Eddings until now, perhaps because of said repetition.  All the woman are manipulative, but tender and sensitive, the men are gruffy ineffectual, needing a woman to guide them and nobody is ever complete until they are married, and just about everyone falls apart completely when his or her spouse dies.  Polgara winds up restating the same point several times, which isn't uncommon in a long, somewhat ramblinh narrative but still jarring nonetheless.  Still, there is lots to recommend to fans, Polgara's accounts of how she became a duchess and basically created Sendaria are pure Eddings and the Vo Mimbre section of the book alone is worth the price of admission, if only because it's the only really epic action packed thing there (it was the last clash of Light and Dark before the Belgariad).  Definitely a kind and gentle way to say goodbye to a series that has thrilled me more times than I can remember and it was great revisiting all those great characters and events one last time.  If you've grown up on Eddings, you owe it to yourself to get this, if you're new, get the Belgariad first and see if you like that, then come back here.  It'll be waiting.  Or something.ve his or her personal view of male/female relationships, Jordan is notorious for this and it never really bothered me in Eddings until now, perhaps because of said repetition.  All the woman are manipulative, but tender and sensitive, the men are gruffy ineffectual, needing a woman to guide them and nobody is ever complete until they are married, and just about everyone falls apart completely when his or her spouse dies.  Polgara winds up restating the same point several times, which isn't uncommon in a long, somewhat ramblinh narrative but still jarring nonetheless.  Still, there is lots to recommend to fans, Polgara's accounts of how she became a duchess and basically created Sendaria are pure Eddings and the Vo Mimbre section of the book alone is worth the price of admission, if only because it's the only really epic action packed thing there (it was the last clash of Light and Dark before the Belgariad).  Definitely a kind and gentle way to say goodbye to a series that has thrilled me more times than I can remember and it was great revisiting all those great characters and events one last time.  If you've grown up on Eddings, you owe it to yourself to get this, if you're new, get the Belgariad first and see if you like that, then come back here.  It'll be waiting.  Or something.	2001-01-05
US	52986477	R9VCLYPGCT4B0	0156005050	95435903	Blameless in Abaddon	Books	5	12	13	N	N	Bring it to the seminary	I thought Towing Jehovah was good but this one tops that on a bunch of levels.  It's both funnier and darker at the same time and TJ was lacking in neither, while at the same time it takes the ideas that were brought up in the last book and adds a little more depth to them while taking it to the logical conclusion.  In essence, Martin Candle is a justice who has a bad few days, first he's diagnosed with prostate cancer and then his wife dies in a really freaky accident.  In despair he compares himself to the Biblical Job and decides that what he has to do is put God on trial before the World Court for all his crimes against humanity, whether it be wars or plague or famine or just any of that nutty stuff.  To do so he has to tackle lots of hard to fathom religious questions, most of which if they weren't explainined in a normal fashion, probably would make your head hurt.  Before the court trial, Candle has to gather evidence and that involves taking a big ol' trip into God's head, where the things he sees have to be read to believed.  All the things that Morrow hinted at in the first book (and they really are two separate animals, other than the shared theme of a dead God) come to life here and you'll be hard pressed to find a more entertaining set of theological arguments presented in such an engaging fashion.  This book gives you a heck of a lot to think about and Morrow must have done a staggering amount of fairly boring reading to make this all work.  Still, it's funny stuff in the Vonnegut tradition, which means that it's still mostly absurdist humor, sometimes bordering on cruel, often black humor.  But underneath all that is a honest questioning spirit and some fairly touching moments that make it all worthwhile.  Oh yeah and the Devil is the narrator.  Doesn't get any better than that.	2000-12-13
US	52986477	R27LJU9CZIVPO9	0156002108	367931854	Towing Jehovah (Harvest Book)	Books	5	5	7	N	N	Hey, God's dead!	The premise alone made me buy this book, which probably qualifies as one of the wackier non-drug induced situations for a book to be based on.  In case you haven't gotten the full scoop, here's the deal: an angel comes to Anthony Van Horne and tells him that God has died and his several miles long corpse is floating in the sea.  Van Horne's job is to pilot an oil tanker, grab the corpse and tow it to a tomb that the angels have set up in the Arctic.  Along the way he has to contend with a feminist who wants to blow the corpse up for the sake of womankind, a Vactian who thinks that God can be revived and the overriding question of what the heck is God doing dead?  There really isn't anything sacriligous about this book so if you're looking for something to protest, don't bother looking here, most of the this stuff is treated fairly respectfully, albeit as soon through a somewhat bizarre lens.  Most people who have written reviews note that the book really isn't that funny and to that I can only say that Morrow is often compared to Kurt Vonnegut and frankly, Vonnegut isn't a laugh out loud type of writer either, his humor is generally dark, I mean Slaughterhouse-Five was funny but in a more of an ironic sort of way, not because people were slipping on banana peels and stuff.  It's the same here, some of the situations are so absurd that you can't help but laugh but this isn't a happy cheery book either.  Morrow somehow manages to pull all of this off, and performs the even greater feat of turning characters that should have been cardboard cutouts into real people.  Van Horne is by turns stubborn and endearing, pathetic and inspiring.  The same with the feminist Cassie Fowler, at first she strikes you as someone who is a one note character but in time reveals greater depths.  The plot is a bit of a ramshackle affair, especially toward the end and not everything makes total sense but if you just let yourself go along for the ride, Morrow gives you plenty to think about and there wasn't a moment in the book that I didn't find engrossing.  Don't let the title make you think that this is some tract bashing religion, in the end, it's an uplifting book that points one direction humanity might head toward in the future.  Recommended.and there wasn't a moment in the book that I didn't find engrossing.  Don't let the title make you think that this is some tract bashing religion, in the end, it's an uplifting book that points one direction humanity might head toward in the future.  Recommended.	2000-12-11
US	52986477	R347YALTY9IRFB	0486211339	327147294	Odd John and Sirius	Books	5	19	19	N	N	Little known classics	Most people don't even know that Olaf Stapledon even existed as an author and those that do most often gravitate toward his more famous (and certainly more groundbreaking) novels Last and First Men and Starmaker (also available as a twofer job and well worth your time), but if they pass up these books they're definitely missing out.  Far more accessible than either of his other books, mostly because if you're not ready for the almost textbook style of LAFM/SM it might just bore the heck out of you before you realize how awesome those books actually are.  Here Stapledon gets to show off his narrative skills and he more than succeeds.  The first story Odd John is about a bloke who basically is one of the Second Men, as advanced over the rest of mankind as we're advanced over dogs and cats.  Stapledon has some fun with the idea, mostly with John's utter inability to figure us out (or he knows us too well and can't figure out our motivations), the only problem is that John himself is a bit of a hard character to like, he uses people mostly because he can and justifies every act he does no matter how bad it is based on the fact that he's far superior to us.  Granted you still care about the big lug, but sometimes he's so snotty you just want to slap him.  Still, Stapledon does a great job of taking some shots at humanity and pretty well rationalizing the thought processes of a guy who's just not like us.  Thankfully Sirius has the compassion that Odd John lacks in parts.  This one is even stranger, it's about a really smart dog who might as well be human.  The fact that Stapledon manages to pull this one off without it seeming silly or far fetched is a testament to his writing genius, he makes Sirius, who could have just been a talking dog, into something three dimensional and worthy of your attention.  I had thought Odd John was good but Sirius just blew me away with its emotion and depth.  It's interesting to note that in Odd John, John thinks Communism isn't a bad idea (with a few modications) while Sirius hates it because he feels it crushes the spirit.  Thought I'd point that out.  Other side note, Stapledon writes the coolest narrators I've ever read, they come across as totally human and just regular guys who happened to be caught up in really strange events.  Classics like this deserve to be remembered.a (with a few modications) while Sirius hates it because he feels it crushes the spirit.  Thought I'd point that out.  Other side note, Stapledon writes the coolest narrators I've ever read, they come across as totally human and just regular guys who happened to be caught up in really strange events.  Classics like this deserve to be remembered.	2000-12-08
US	52986477	R3UHDP8169MR7Y	0156003619	589431946	Lanark (Harvest Book)	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Massively weird	This book is a lot easier to read than you might think.  Folks have compared it to Joyce's Ulysses mostly because of its complicated structure (the parts are numbered Four, Prologue, One, Two, Three, Epilogue, and the last few chapters) and detailing of a single city (Scotland's Glasgow) but the similarities really stop there, though I imagine if you dig fairly deep you can find lots of others.  It's a great novel though, definitely the work of someone working from a highly personal visual, everything screams the voice of the author, from the forthright illustrations to the style of the prose in the book.  Basically it's the story of Lanark a young man who lives in the strange city of Unthank.  After some weird adventures there (and I mean strange . . . if you don't believe me just go read part four and tell me that it's not deeply weird) he winds up hearing the story of the person he apparently used to be . . . a Scottish lad/man named Duncan Thaw.  Thaw's parts are almost like an entirely separate novel and take up a good portion of it, his youth is interesting and even though he's not the most likeable character, neither is really anyone else and there's a certain nobility to his unwavering desire to just live life as he sees fit without caring what anyone thinks.  The adventures go back to Unthank then and the book gets a little slow in some parts and becomes more surreal and episodic, it's hard to figure out just what's going on in some parts.  But Gray has a definite knack for description and a way of conveying complicated tangled and hard to understand emotions (mostly negative ones, it's not a very cheerful novel) in ways that lesser authors would cry for.  Some of the characters are distant and cold, and Lanark isn't easy to deal with most of the time, especially toward the end when he becomes a bit ineffectual.  But the Epilogue is one of the funniest sections in the book (it's got a list of all the things he plagarized to write the novel listed on the side) and I think a solid influence on the end of Grant Morrison's run on the comic book Animal Man (anyone with me on that?).  In fact, I think most Scottish writers that started after this book was published were influenced in some way by it, I can read famed Scot Iain Banks in this book as well, it's a novel that has a foot firmly in the old Scotland while not being so obscure that non-Scots can't read and enjoy it.  Well worth your time if you can find it or track it down, if you get past the trappings of &quot;postmodernism&quot; and just read it to enjoy the story, you'll find that there's a rollicking good novel in there, one that you won't be sorry you read.e) and I think a solid influence on the end of Grant Morrison's run on the comic book Animal Man (anyone with me on that?).  In fact, I think most Scottish writers that started after this book was published were influenced in some way by it, I can read famed Scot Iain Banks in this book as well, it's a novel that has a foot firmly in the old Scotland while not being so obscure that non-Scots can't read and enjoy it.  Well worth your time if you can find it or track it down, if you get past the trappings of &quot;postmodernism&quot; and just read it to enjoy the story, you'll find that there's a rollicking good novel in there, one that you won't be sorry you read.	2000-12-03
US	52986477	R2RN7R4GEPAK01	0060931671	183823737	The Crying of Lot 49 (Perennial Classics)	Books	5	115	124	N	N	Tidy little work	Okay it's not his best novel (that'd be Gravity's Rainbow) and it's not his worst novel (that'd be Vineland, which is still darn good, actually) but it is his shortest novel, so if you could say one definite thing about it, that might be it.  The length is actually a good thing because is an easy book to hook people on Pynchon by giving them something short and say &quot;Hey look he's great!&quot;.  Because this is classic Pynchon, as good as anything he's ever done, a great big step forward from V.  In these one hundred and eighty pages he manages to cram more prose and ideas and paranoia (because it wouldn't be a Pynchon book otherwise) than most authors can do in twice the space.  Simply put, it's a fun book, and for all the trappings of &quot;post-modernism&quot; you can easily enjoy this book without camping out in your local library near the reference section if you just take everything on faith and read it.  The story concerns Ms Oedipa Maas, who is executing the will of her late boyfriend and stumbles upon (she thinks) a conspiracy involving either the US Postal System, the Mob and just about everything else, a conspiracy that might stretch back hundreds of years.  Or it might not.  Pynchon proceeds then to play with Ms. Maas and the reader for the rest of the novel, throwing out obscure fact after obscure fact, toying with her perception of things (are things just happening randonly or is there a guiding force behind them?) and basically having a crackling good time doing so.  His prose still consists of long winding sentences with a bit too much detail (it's a postmodern trademark to describe every single item on a desk at least once during the story) at times but the jokes are still funny thirty years later, the story is still good and frankly if you look past the fact that the story doesn't have a neat and pat ending then you'll probably enjoy this very much.  Some folks find Pynchon too silly at times, but I think taking anything too seriously is bad and especially literature, where there's so much potential for humor.  This is a good example of how you can write a serious, timeless piece of literature and still have the ability to make folks outloud.  Remember, Joyce liked fart jokes.  Keep that in mind.d especially literature, where there's so much potential for humor.  This is a good example of how you can write a serious, timeless piece of literature and still have the ability to make folks outloud.  Remember, Joyce liked fart jokes.  Keep that in mind.	2000-11-26
US	52986477	R35PUSXQ38L7SZ	038078078X	774050327	Blood: A Southern Fantasy	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Be patient	Okay, it's not the Cornelius books (my personal favorite), it's not the Elric saga, it's not really even Corum, but hey's this is Michael Moorcock we're talking about here.  What we seem to have here is Moorcock attempting something new with his tried and true concept of Law versus Chaos and the multiverse and spinning it into something different.  So we're faced with a drastically different South where the war between those two opposing factions has basically spilled over onto Earth.  Into this comes a bizarre cast of characters such as Jack K (not even attempting that last name), Sam Oakenherst and the Rose, who all wind up being sucked into the Game of Time, whether they want to or not.  The book turns out to be highly confusing in parts and the beginning is quite slow, introducing the characters and barely moving the plot forward while doing so.  However once everyone gets together and things start happening, the book takes on an almost breakneck pace, almost like it's trying to compensate for the sloth like start.  Ideas fly fast and furious around here even in the slow moments, and it sometimes feels like Moorcock is trying to cram several books into one.  Surprisingly, I found myself actually caring about the main characters, especially the driven and passionate Jack.  Toward the end the book takes on a careening quality, not at all helped by the rather strange Corsairs of the Second Ether sections, which, while good at introducing situations and characters that will become important later in the book, are deeply weird and border on incoherent.  The book is almost contradictory, on one hand his descriptions and situations (especially the Second Ether) are almost brilliant in conveying the strange nature of these places, but sometimes you can barely figure out what's going on because so many ideas are being thrown at you for what seems to be little reason.  It's a readable, highly enjoyable book which seems to polarize fans something fierce, judging by reaction.  Some of that might be because this is such a radical departure for the multiverse concept and something he would run with in other books, but with a little fine tuning, a pretty good book could become a near masterpiece.  Give it your time though and you'll find many small rewards to be found.n.  Some of that might be because this is such a radical departure for the multiverse concept and something he would run with in other books, but with a little fine tuning, a pretty good book could become a near masterpiece.  Give it your time though and you'll find many small rewards to be found.	2000-11-24
US	52986477	R1W9SRCR1JNN84	0684823853	350241759	That Hideous Strength	Books	5	81	98	N	N	Eldils and Merlin and bears oh my!	Silly heading, but nobody reads them anyway.  I think.  The third and last book in the trilogy (you did read the others, right?) and about as far from science fiction as you can possibly get . . . there's a definite shift, Lewis seems to be bringing in more fantasy and religious allegorical elements as the series continued, with the end result here.  The tale is subtitled &quot;A Fairy Tale for Grown-Ups&quot; and that's what it boils down to.  If you're like me, you'll have read this right after reading the other two books (which were great, by the way) and you'll be immediately confused.  Instead of focusing on the nifty Dr Ransom, you get a young couple Mark and Jane.  Jane's having weird dreams that keep coming true and Mark isn't really paying attention because he's trying to get into the political &quot;circles&quot; as the local university where he works.  However, little does he know that evil is lurking there and the folks are plotting some very dark things.  Herein comes the good guys and after being introduced to lots o' supporting characters, some of which are interesting, some less so, you finally meet the man himself: Ransom.  The problem I have, and this has been said elsewhere, is that he's apparently the &quot;Pendragon&quot; (but also the Fisher King . . . weren't they two different people?) but there's absolutely no explanation as to how that happened.  Lewis probably figured it wasn't important and not relevant to the story itself, heck, Ransom's discussion of how he inherited the mantle of the Pendragon is basically tossed off in one sentence.  The first half of the book mostly focuses on the college and the dread blokes there, but when Ransom and company shows up finally, things get very trippy indeed.  Perelandra was a strange novel because of setting but I could deal with that, Lewis piles so much allegory on the plot that it gets almost ridiculous.  And then Merlin shows up.  That's right.  Merlin.  He's kinda fun actually but much like Ransom becomes, he's little more than a voice, you don't get any indication of his motivations.  All that said though, this is a nifty way to end the series, the climax left me a little flat, especially after the buildup in the first two books (Merlin makes some stuff happen and the gods blow some stuff up) but Lewis' mastery of the English language saves this completely, this guy was passionate about this novel and you can tell, it crackles from every page and you can really feel it toward the end in almost every word.  There's a nice &quot;Britishness&quot; about the book as well, a sense of the sheer age of Britain and its history.  The ending is kind and gentle and you're left with a good feeling when you finish the book.  If you don't like Lewis for his &quot;preachiness&quot; then stay far away if you don't like thinking, because he's using this more to illustrate a point more than anything else, but it's fine writing and a fine cap to an interesting series.  And for those of you who started reading this series because it was science fictional, don't stop now, y'all could stand to read something different every once in a while.  It won't hurt.  Really.om becomes, he's little more than a voice, you don't get any indication of his motivations.  All that said though, this is a nifty way to end the series, the climax left me a little flat, especially after the buildup in the first two books (Merlin makes some stuff happen and the gods blow some stuff up) but Lewis' mastery of the English language saves this completely, this guy was passionate about this novel and you can tell, it crackles from every page and you can really feel it toward the end in almost every word.  There's a nice &quot;Britishness&quot; about the book as well, a sense of the sheer age of Britain and its history.  The ending is kind and gentle and you're left with a good feeling when you finish the book.  If you don't like Lewis for his &quot;preachiness&quot; then stay far away if you don't like thinking, because he's using this more to illustrate a point more than anything else, but it's fine writing and a fine cap to an interesting series.  And for those of you who started reading this series because it was science fictional, don't stop now, y'all could stand to read something different every once in a while.  It won't hurt.  Really.	2000-11-19
US	52986477	RW803HN233U4S	0684823829	530210334	Perelandra	Books	5	74	90	N	N	Fun AND allergorical	That wacky C.S. Lewis, thinking he can stick Christian ideals and<br />beliefs into a science-fictional setting.  What gall.  You know what<br />the funny part is?  It actually works, which is something of an<br />accomplishment in itself.  Y'see, this story continues from the last<br />book (Out of the Silent Planet) where Dr Ransom is sent to<br />&quot;Perelandra&quot; (Venus) where he finds a fantastic unspoiled<br />paradise populated by strange and quite friendly animals . . . and a<br />single green woman who seems rather innocent of the world (psst<br />. . . think &quot;Eve&quot;).  No sooner do they get to chatting then<br />someone shows up who might just be the agent of the Devil, trying to<br />tempt &quot;Eve&quot; into disobeying &quot;God&quot; (not called God<br />but you get the idea) and Ransom has to figure out how to put a stop<br />to someone who is not only smarter, older and has lots more experience<br />at this, but managed to do it right once before.  Arguments ensue.<br />People who have read Lewis have complained to me that he tends to<br />&quot;preach&quot; a bit too much, and I can see from this novel where<br />people get that idea from.  But really it isn't that much of a<br />problem, for every couple pages of theological argument (cloaked in SF<br />terms, really) he slathers the page full of absolutely beautiful<br />descriptions of the planet, you can get lost sorting through all of<br />them.  He really thought this place out and while it's nowhere near<br />the &quot;real&quot; Venus, my first rule of writing is chuck science<br />if it gets in the way of a good story.  And in the end you have a good<br />story, it's good versus evil in the classic sense, yes, it's from a<br />&quot;Christian&quot; perspective but it mostly boils down to<br />&quot;Devil=bad&quot;.  There's plenty of other stuff to recommend as<br />well, the fight between Ransom and the Devil's advocate (couldn't<br />resist . . . sorry) is one of the most brutal fights I've ever seen in<br />a old style SF novel and Lewis manages to contrast the sheer brutality<br />of the fight with the beauty and splendor of the planet around them.<br />By the end it gets a bit on the metaphysical end of things, but all in<br />all an entertaining romp.  Be prepared if you read the first book and<br />were expecting more of the same, this is a different tone entirely,<br />more philosophical and searching and definitely more than just a<br />science fictional retelling of the Garden of Eden story.lendor of the planet around them. By the end it gets a bit on the metaphysical end of things, but all in all an entertaining romp.  Be prepared if you read the first book and were expecting more of the same, this is a different tone entirely, more philosophical and searching and definitely more than just a science fictional retelling of the Garden of Eden story.	2000-11-15
US	52986477	R1JEGIIUUMPBK0	0684823802	530210334	Out of the Silent Planet (Space Trilogy, Book 1)	Books	5	31	39	N	N	Nowhere near Narnia	Hey, C.S. Lewis actually wrote other stuff!  Fancy that!  For those who only know him as the author of those books with the big cat, the kids and the closet entrance into a fantasy world, he's got lots of other stuff out there.  This is just one of those other works, I think the really only important SF work he ever did (it's actually the first part of a trilogy, but I think those are less SF).  It's great fun, really, definitely reminds me of H.G. Wells in its calm tone when describing the utterly fantastic and impossible, except that Lewis has a slightly better gift of description to make up for his only slightly lack of imagination (but only when comparing him to Wells, mind you).  Basically Dr Ransome winds up being kidnapped (really through no faunt of his own) by two others and winds up on a planet that turns out to be Mars.  Ransome winds up meeting the local people and learning their ways while trying to survive and his sure scientific tone in the face of something hardly comprehendable is the bedrock on which this novel rests, no matter how afraid or excited he is, he stills displays an unwavering confidence in detail and exacting observations.  Which makes the narration compelling in its subtle beauty of detail.  The folks of Mars are interesting, a far cry from the warlike being of Wells' famed novel, and there's probably some overt commentary that I'm missing (Lewis was a devout follower of Christian beliefs and I think those color the other two books more than this one) but what the heck, it's fun and entertaining and that's what count.  People tell me they don't like to read Lewis because he tends to be &quot;preachy&quot; and talks down, but there's nothing like that here.  The trial scene towards the end with all the Martians is absolutely fascinating and complicated at the same time.  The only overt Christian thing I found was the reference to Earth as the &quot;silent&quot; planet (ie. fallen), something which I think is developed more in the two books.  But for me this has all the classic attributes of good old fashioned SF, a calm reasonable tone, the narrator's attention to science and detail, a general disregard for science if it gets in the way of a good story (we know Mars doesn't have people and it'd take a heck of a lot longer than twenty eight days to get there, but who cares . . . I'm not basing a scientific paper on it) and unreserved creativity.  A fast read that'll probably stay with you, it's definitely worth a shot.ooks.  But for me this has all the classic attributes of good old fashioned SF, a calm reasonable tone, the narrator's attention to science and detail, a general disregard for science if it gets in the way of a good story (we know Mars doesn't have people and it'd take a heck of a lot longer than twenty eight days to get there, but who cares . . . I'm not basing a scientific paper on it) and unreserved creativity.  A fast read that'll probably stay with you, it's definitely worth a shot.	2000-11-11
US	52986477	R1QCV8HUF77IQL	0061000981	341413187	The Player of Games	Books	5	124	132	N	N	It's just a game	I believe this was the second Culture novel (Banks' future history series, for those unfortunates who haven't read this series yet) and about as far from Consider Pheblas as can be.  While that book was a grand space opera, taking place right in the middle of a war, featuring a lead character fighting against the culture, this novel is a lot more scaled down.  But it's probably better than Consider Pheblas, if only because the mood isn't so downbeat, Banks can be morbidly witty most times but sometimes he goes too far and becomes downright depressing.  So, here we have Guergh, probably the greatest game player in the Culture . . . he finds that games really don't hold any excitement for him anymore, and everything in the Culture easy to get (even sex changes!), there's no challenge elsewhere either.  Until Contact invites him to go on a mission to a civilization based completely about games.  He goes for it and winds up on a place so different from the Culture it might as well be barbaric.  From there plots and counterplots start spinning, though this book is delightfully straightforward for the most part, but things are spinning around so fast that you can barely keep your breath.  He gets the details right on everything and manages to generate excitement from the series of games that Guergh has to play without going into lengthy details of the rules.  The climax is about as surprising as they come, as Guergh gets farther in the games and the stakes get higher as the civilization tries to stop this &quot;outworlder&quot; from making them look like a bunch of idiots.  Probably the first SF book you should pick from Banks, both for its relative simplicity (compared to the others) and general lightheartedness.  It's not all fun and games but the mood is generally witty and swift.  One of those few books you really can't go wrong with if you want a good read.	2000-11-10
US	52986477	R2STNRDSPBK8Z6	0553292250	616663200	Against A Dark Background	Books	5	9	16	N	N	The one man Scottish invasion	There are quite a few arguments that Iain Banks is among the top three greatest living authors of the latter part of the last century (and going into the next).  He has absolutely no problem writing either straight (but weird) fiction or pure science-fiction but he treats both genres with respect and every work glistens with quality.  Those who think that he just slums in the SF genre just to pay the bills in between books are highly mistaken and some of his best work can be found there.  This one is I think the only non-Culture SF work (you can make a case for The Bridge but that one's more a Kafka nightmare than anything else) and definitely worth the time.  The hallmarks that regular readers already know and love are here, involving plot, finely detailed characters, breakneck action, an offbeat and downbeat attitude and an interesting world that everyone lives in.  The deal here is that a cult is looking for the last Lazy Gun (a weapon of mass destruction that has a power that has to be seen to be believed), and Sharrow has to find it before they do.  Her family has the last one, but nobody knows where it is and so between dodging people trying to kill her, she has to piece together clues thousands of years old.  Not that she's alone in the quest, she gathers a team of close friends to help her and off they go.  I do absolutely no justice to the plot in this fashion, this is barely even a basic structure and when you read it you'll see how rich and detailed this book is.  The twists are many and almost always surprising, the dialogue is witty and to the point and the situations are nothing short of fascinating.  The only small problems is that the book is just a tad too long, some parts of it toward the middle drag just a tad but generally always pick up and the last couple hundred pages fly by all too quickly.  Sometimes Banks highlights Sharrow's past as a way of showing us how those events made her into the person she is today but he does to do them without much transition so they can be confusing if you're not used to that.  Other than that keep in mind that like most SF authors on the other side of the Atlantic, Banks can be brutal and realistic while dazzling us with his worlds and if Consider Pheblas taught anyone anything, it's that all bets are off as to who makes it to the end intact or at all.  Another standout book by an author who doesn't seem to be able to write anything bad if he tried, Banks deserves more credit over here and perhaps one day he will.ch transition so they can be confusing if you're not used to that.  Other than that keep in mind that like most SF authors on the other side of the Atlantic, Banks can be brutal and realistic while dazzling us with his worlds and if Consider Pheblas taught anyone anything, it's that all bets are off as to who makes it to the end intact or at all.  Another standout book by an author who doesn't seem to be able to write anything bad if he tried, Banks deserves more credit over here and perhaps one day he will.	2000-11-01
US	52986477	R1JQDV28OMB9KV	0140156046	937703555	Libra (Contemporary American Fiction)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	A whodunnit where you already know the answer	Not being a major scholar in the conspiracies and ideas bouncing around about the Kennedy assassination, I have absolutely no idea how factual Delillo is being in this book as concerned with major figures, events, etc.  And I really don't care.  The only thing that I used when deciding whether I liked the book or not is whether it entertained me and made me think.  And it sure did.  Delillo presents another version of the famed assassination, focusing more on the mind and manners of one Lee Harvey Oswald and how he might have got sucked into a conspiracy to kill the President.  Or something.  As the book starts out, the goal is to not kill the President but to make it seem like someone is trying so that everyone will blame the Cubans (the Bay of Pigs invasion still fresh in everyone's mind).  From there, things get . . . strange.  The plot flips back and forth from Oswald and how he goes about his short life (his mother gets most of the best monologues) from America to Russia and back again, all the while interspersing it with the various characters who interacted and might have had something to do with the assassination.  Which makes everything confusing and earlier portions of the book slow, as you're trying to figure out just where this is all going.  However, this is a slow burning intense book, where the suspense leading up to the action is longer than the event itself.  Delillo uses his masterful command of the English language to craft an insular paranoid world for the reader, without going nutty with conspiracies, he puts forward a fictional version of how things might have happened and makes you believe it.  Everyone is drawn three dimensionally, including Oswald, who is seen as more of a tragic figure but at the same time knows exactly what he's doing and how people will perceive him forever.  Delillo's writing is full of surprising phrases, just when you think he's dipping into the waters of Hemmingway and not being that descriptive, he throws out seemingly random comments that make everything fall into place perfectly, or turn everything on its head and make you reconsider.  By the end, his writing has been polished to a spare, desolate beauty and ending of the book is one of the most touching I've read in a while.  With the events of that grim day in November already spelled out for everyone, Delillo's makes it his task to make you know the people (perhaps) and he passes that with flying colors.  If you can keep the time lines (he mucks things up even more by throwing in some guy who is researching the assassination for the CIA years later) and the people straight, you'll have a grand time.  Whether you think it was a lone gunman or an army of them, you won't go wrong with this book.ly random comments that make everything fall into place perfectly, or turn everything on its head and make you reconsider.  By the end, his writing has been polished to a spare, desolate beauty and ending of the book is one of the most touching I've read in a while.  With the events of that grim day in November already spelled out for everyone, Delillo's makes it his task to make you know the people (perhaps) and he passes that with flying colors.  If you can keep the time lines (he mucks things up even more by throwing in some guy who is researching the assassination for the CIA years later) and the people straight, you'll have a grand time.  Whether you think it was a lone gunman or an army of them, you won't go wrong with this book.	2000-10-25
US	52986477	R2YGG6H8QP0R4R	0385491026	75368334	Cat's Eye	Books	5	10	10	N	N	Deceiving cover	I figure that was something different to put as a title.  Y'see, the first time I saw this book, I had already read &quot;The Handmaid's Tale&quot;, which was slightly science-fictional (only slightly so) and to see this book, with the definitely science-fictional picture of a cloaked woman hovering over a bridge, flanked by bare trees, holding what seems to be a swirling ball of clouds.  Mystical, fantastical, even.  Alas, the book was about as realistic as they come and you know what . . . it rules (if such a term can be used for a book such as this).  I wasn't sure what I would think about this, but I sure as heck enjoyed it and finished it even faster than I thought I would.  Basically this book is about Elaine, a painter (hence the cover, it's one of her paintings, natch) who is back in Toronto for a retrospective of her work.  Being back in the city of her youth dredges up a bunch of memories, most of them utterly unpleasant and most of them centering around a schoolfriend named Cordelia, a girl entirely difficult to classify.  Elaine has grown up with her family, who aren't traditional folks and hanging around Cordelia and her two other friends enters her into a petty petty world of &quot;improving yourself&quot; and jealousy and mostly either making yourself feel miserable or having your friends do it for you.  Or making others miserable.  Some of the stuff that Cordelia masterminds, the subtle psychological manipulations, are downright disturbings and while this isn't a gory or even very intense book (it's a bit too distant for that), it's not for the faint of heart, or for those who don't wish to relive your childhood years.  The plot weaves back and forth from her strolls around present day (for 1989) Toronto and her life before that, with the constant hellos and goodbyes of life.  But it always comes back to Cordelia and Elaine has a fixation on the woman centering on obsession, looking for her around every corner, the woman never lurking too far from her thoughts.  Will she run into her old friend?  I'm not telling.  But Elaine's life is meticulously detailed and her observations are cool and sometimes numb but always poetic, Atwood's writing has rarely been this beautiful, almost every page has an absolutely crystal clear description or poetic phrase.  Elaine's life is moving and about as real as they come and while the book is more episodic in nature than plot driven, that's what you'd expect from a book like this.  My only complaint is that it's a bit too distant and detached, but I have that gripe with most of Atwood's books, most of her narrators are that way, when she does it right, like here, it comes across as soaring and passionate, if she does it wrong, then it comes across more like dry analysis.  Here her prose soars and her observations of women and the human condition are spot on.  Not for everyone, grantd, but definitely one of the best books I've read in a long while, don't think of this as &quot;woman's literature&quot;, regardless of your gender, pick it up and give it a shot.  You might find yourself pleasantly surprised.r thoughts.  Will she run into her old friend?  I'm not telling.  But Elaine's life is meticulously detailed and her observations are cool and sometimes numb but always poetic, Atwood's writing has rarely been this beautiful, almost every page has an absolutely crystal clear description or poetic phrase.  Elaine's life is moving and about as real as they come and while the book is more episodic in nature than plot driven, that's what you'd expect from a book like this.  My only complaint is that it's a bit too distant and detached, but I have that gripe with most of Atwood's books, most of her narrators are that way, when she does it right, like here, it comes across as soaring and passionate, if she does it wrong, then it comes across more like dry analysis.  Here her prose soars and her observations of women and the human condition are spot on.  Not for everyone, grantd, but definitely one of the best books I've read in a long while, don't think of this as &quot;woman's literature&quot;, regardless of your gender, pick it up and give it a shot.  You might find yourself pleasantly surprised.	2000-10-16
US	52986477	R1FQ596BSUY7CJ	0812524802	688034485	Moving Mars: A Novel	Books	5	62	66	N	N	But where are you going to put it?	Heh, small joke.  Sorry.  I've seen this book for years, but always held off on buying it, seeing it as just another of those Mars books that seem to crop up every few years.  Yeah, I like the idea of colonizing or visiting our red neighbor but that doesn't mean I have to read every book that someone decides to write about it.  But I finally got around to it, since it seemed different enough from such works as Kim Stanley Robinson's great trilogy and just finished reading it and, well, I was wrong.  This is a great book, full of ideas and interesting characters that you can sympathize with, if not relate to (in a sense) and while it doesn't rank with the famed Mars trilogy (Bear's writing just isn't as poetic or piercing as Robinson's), Bear gets major credit for crafting such an epic, wide ranging piece and managing to contain it all in one book.  What's it all about though?  Indeed, it's about Mars, and how Earth is trying to keep the poor colonists under the heel of their boots, and since Mars is mostly divided up into factions of different families, Earth doesn't need to do all that much to keep the status quo going.  Then comes the student revolts, which really don't amount to all that much in the end, except that they introduce the two most important characters in the book, Cassie and Charles, who will go on to change Mars.  People sometimes complain that the first hundred or so pages of the book devoted to the revolts aren't really that important to the main story, and they aren't.  But that isn't the point, it's there to lay down the foundations of the characters and without that foundation it becomes that much harder to fathom where they are at the end.  Suspense and political intrigue run rampant throughout the book, with everyone making plans against everyone else and when Charles and company discover an entirely new technology, well, then, things start getting rough.  There's no turning back for the Martians at that point and if you thought that the title of the book was just mere hyperbole, well you ain't see nothing yet.  The last hundred pages or so are classic SF thriller stuff, racing along so fast that you have to almost stop and catch your breath.  Typical of Bear, the science is well thought out but grasping it might require some high level physics (but then not all of the characters seem to understand it that well so don't feel ashamed), don't worry, just let go and race along for the ride.  Good memorable stuff, the kind of the quality the genre could sometimes use more often.e of the book was just mere hyperbole, well you ain't see nothing yet.  The last hundred pages or so are classic SF thriller stuff, racing along so fast that you have to almost stop and catch your breath.  Typical of Bear, the science is well thought out but grasping it might require some high level physics (but then not all of the characters seem to understand it that well so don't feel ashamed), don't worry, just let go and race along for the ride.  Good memorable stuff, the kind of the quality the genre could sometimes use more often.	2000-10-14
US	52986477	R5KI74DR3EYZ8	0385491107	909928810	Life Before Man	Books	5	7	9	N	N	Fascinatingly depressing	I'm not sure how I finished this book.  The characters are not all that sympathetic, the plot is slow and sometimes nearly nonexistent, suspense is minimal, and there are dark and somber overtones on practically every page.  And yet, in the end I found this strangely compelling.  The novel deals with the lives of basically four people, two couples, Nate and Elizabeth, Lesje and William.  Elizabeth and Nate are married but only in name for the last few years, taking lovers to keep themselves happy while staying together for the kids.  Recently, Elizabeth's last lover, Chris went and killed himself, casting a cloud over her life.  Lesje and William are living together but that's about it there isn't much going on.  Into that mix our characters intersect and threater to collide, with Nate becoming increasingly fascinated by Lesje.  Most of this is admittedly a downer, none of these characters are ever happy, it seems.  The individuals characters are all spotlighted in each chapter, with the narrator focusing on their thoughts and emotions (though Elizabeth gets some first person parts for some reason).  Elizabeth is mourning her lover, after a fashion, and most of her parts feel deadened and numb, most of the time she comes across as a scheming manipulative witch, albeit an emotionally crippled one, hardly able to relate even to her kids.  Nate likes his women, but is always trying to please everyone and manages to please no one and makes himself miserable all the time.  Lesje remains the most fascinating character, her simple innocence and desire to just be happy and live her life within the bounds of that happiness, reading and discussing her dinosaurs (gal after my own heart), she seems to be the only character I could muster up some sympathy for, even if she remains a bit ineffectual because of her shyness and fear of making a fool of herself.  William, on the other hand, gets no spotlights at all in the story, except for the fact that he is with Lesje when the story starts, he might as well not be in the story.  But that's probably a good thing because he seems to be about the most boring man alive (hard to believe but seems to be true).  All of these people are unhappy and as the plot winds inexorably on, you get the feeling that you're basically driving slowly past a car wreck, as they become more tangled, as emotions become even more frayed.  All the characters are detailed, maybe too much so, since they all turn out to be mostly unlikeable, but Atwood's prose tends to redeem most of the slower parts, her descriptions of the texture of emotions and the characters' musings over their lives are almost sheer poetry and while sometimes her metaphors can be a bit ponderous, the effect mostly lifts this over the standard &quot;love triangle&quot; novel.  It's an analysis, true and not for everyone, don't expect to come away from this book with a warm fuzzy feeling (or any at all, the ending is strangely pointless and leaves too many things wide open but that might be the point) but if instead of a nice linear plot (or even that wacky pyramid) you want a good clean downward spiral, this is the book for you.  Recommended with reservations, store up your patience first and read other Atwood books to remind yourself how good she can be.ry starts, he might as well not be in the story.  But that's probably a good thing because he seems to be about the most boring man alive (hard to believe but seems to be true).  All of these people are unhappy and as the plot winds inexorably on, you get the feeling that you're basically driving slowly past a car wreck, as they become more tangled, as emotions become even more frayed.  All the characters are detailed, maybe too much so, since they all turn out to be mostly unlikeable, but Atwood's prose tends to redeem most of the slower parts, her descriptions of the texture of emotions and the characters' musings over their lives are almost sheer poetry and while sometimes her metaphors can be a bit ponderous, the effect mostly lifts this over the standard &quot;love triangle&quot; novel.  It's an analysis, true and not for everyone, don't expect to come away from this book with a warm fuzzy feeling (or any at all, the ending is strangely pointless and leaves too many things wide open but that might be the point) but if instead of a nice linear plot (or even that wacky pyramid) you want a good clean downward spiral, this is the book for you.  Recommended with reservations, store up your patience first and read other Atwood books to remind yourself how good she can be.	2000-10-08
US	52986477	R31QOI8SABR18M	0449912167	21920687	The Centaur	Books	5	63	68	N	N	Bittersweet and precise	Now, normally I read science fiction, it's the bread and butter that I grew up on and I still love reading old and new SF.  But I like to challenge myself with what I consider &quot;literature&quot; to read those books that everyone considers classics and see what everyone is talking about.  Most of them take lots of effort to get through, you have to concentrate intently on just about every page, pay close attention to plot and even in the end it might not all make sense.  Sometimes these can be frustrating affairs and I wonder why I even bother and why I don't stick to the overall much easier to read SF genre.<br /> Books like this remind me why I read literature.  Simply put this has to be one of the most memorable books I've ever read.  You don't so much read it as live it, immersing yourself in another time and place long gone.  You can feel the icy sting of winter on your face, sense the tension of school both for teacher and student and hear the hopeful note in George Caldwell's voice even if he never seems to hear it.  The book is simple enough, George Caldwell is a teacher who feels out of place in life, constantly putting himself down and sometimes not even sure why he carries on.  He has a son and the relationship between father and son over a few days in a Pennslyvania 1940's winter is what makes up this novel and what makes this story work.  Uplike seems to lovingly craft each scene with meticulous detail, not a word is out of place and he turns the most mundane aspects of life into something to be celebrated, chances are he'll make you look at routine things that you do around your life in a totally different manner.  The father-son relationship is touching and refreshingly complex, there aren't any easy explanations, or answers.  The book has a certain mythological aspect to it, Updike attempts to compare the tale of Chiron the Centaur's (hence the title) death and his relationship with his son Prometheus and link that to the story of George and his son and most of the characters in the book can be linked with the old Greek gods.  If one so desires, it's great fodder for a paper if the teacher gives you an assignment like that but for most readers they won't even care, just go with the flow of the book, take the Greek god scenes (there aren't that many blatant ones, mostly in the beginning, after that it gets very subtle) for what they're worth and just enjoy the story and the words.  I can't see anyone not liking this book, it's short and poetic, bittersweet and uplifting, something for everyone.  Perhaps if you don't care about the beauty of words and just want slapdash action and explosions, you might not like this but that's why we have Tom Clancy.  Seriously, don't take this as pretentious &quot;literature&quot; but instead a darn fine novel that deserves to be read.on and most of the characters in the book can be linked with the old Greek gods.  If one so desires, it's great fodder for a paper if the teacher gives you an assignment like that but for most readers they won't even care, just go with the flow of the book, take the Greek god scenes (there aren't that many blatant ones, mostly in the beginning, after that it gets very subtle) for what they're worth and just enjoy the story and the words.  I can't see anyone not liking this book, it's short and poetic, bittersweet and uplifting, something for everyone.  Perhaps if you don't care about the beauty of words and just want slapdash action and explosions, you might not like this but that's why we have Tom Clancy.  Seriously, don't take this as pretentious &quot;literature&quot; but instead a darn fine novel that deserves to be read.	2000-10-03
US	52986477	R3PSOKHA03FK2X	055326981X	408108623	The Practice Effect (Bantam Spectra Book)	Books	5	46	47	N	N	Swift and entertaining	Gee, not every SF book has to be a deep exploration of the limits of the genre.  Sometimes you just like to kick back and enjoy yourself.  This is exactly what this book is, and it's a great read, fast and fun at the same time, while still throwing up some interesting concepts.  David Brin normally is an acquired taste, his Uplift books are some of the best SF books around but then they to be heavy on the plot, stories seem to drag on for years (I think only recently he got around to resolving some stuff from the first trilogy) and he can be a bit wordy.  Not here though.  Granted the ideas aren't as mindblowing as elsewhere but you know what, who cares?  The basis here is that an Earth scientist is sent to another world and trapped there for a bit.  The world seems backwards and forwards at the same time, there is caveman technology sitting alongside highly advanced stuff, among other mysteries.  The scientist (Dennis) has to try and figure out what the heck is going on before he gets killed, especially since a Baron is trying to take over everything.  Sounds like fun, right?  Dennis' solutions to get out of problems, especially once he figures out how everything works, are great, and Brin seems to delight in this world, putting a decent amount of detail into it.  He uses a SF explantion at the end that makes a tiny bit of sense but by then it really won't matter.  There's all sorts of good stuff here, from ingenuity to danger to suspense to action to a bit of romance as well.  Even if this isn't the most innovative stuff it's well written and brisk and . . . fun.  That's all I can say.  It's a fun little book that is more memorable than some of Brin's other work simply because of that.  And you can't go wrong like that.	2000-09-21
US	52986477	R37WIFOE800ZA	0449211134	92309007	Chimera	Books	5	21	26	N	N	The myth that lives down your street	Now, I'm not nearly as erudite as John Barth is (or thinks he is) and thus  missed about a million references to our Greek literary forebears in his  novel here and I like to think that I know Greek mythology fairly well.  However, I really enjoyed this book and if one isn't bothered by the simple  fact that unless one teaches mythology at the local college, one probably  will not &quot;get&quot; pieces of this book.  Oh well.  Basically the book  is some sort of post-modern look at myths and how they conform to reality,  told through three interconnected novellas.  The first has to do with the  lady from Arabian Nights, retelling the story from the point of view of her  younger sister.  The second has to do with Perseus, who is remembering his  life after he slew the hideous Medusa and how it seemed to go downhill and  that all the best moments of his life passed him by.  The last part has to  do with the guy who flew the Pegaseus who feels that he's never really done  anything important with his life and he's just wondering what it all means.  And that's basically the theme for all three of the stories, Barth seems  to be trying to strip away the myth and act like these were people and give  human faces and emotions to these heroes.  And it's funny.  Really funny.  Maybe the shorter form works better or maybe he's actually being funny in a  subject that I actually know something about but this was funnier than  Giles Goat Boy, which has its merits, but this made me laugh outloud  several times and if you're paying attention, it'll make you laugh too.  Sometimes it gets a bit too pretentious for its own good, Barth writes  himself in at several moments (I won't say when) and I'm not sure what  that's supposed to be implying.  But his writing is as good as it ever was  and if any of his books deserved the National Book Award, this one is it.  And while the three novels each have their own good points and great  moments, if the end of the third novella doesn't take some part of your  breath away, well . . . you're not me at any rate.  Excellent stuff, maybe  more accessible because of the length (though everyone says that about the  short novels by authors like this) but packed with enough &quot;thinking  stuff&quot; to make your head hurt, this shows Barth as a master of the  form.ome part of your  breath away, well . . . you're not me at any rate.  Excellent stuff, maybe  more accessible because of the length (though everyone says that about the  short novels by authors like this) but packed with enough &quot;thinking  stuff&quot; to make your head hurt, this shows Barth as a master of the  form.	2000-09-17
US	52986477	R1R16UORVOM0WC	0802132952	783763378	Naked Lunch	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Better than an acid trip (not that I'd know)	Definitely one of the quirkier highlights of that sometimes strange animal  we call &quot;literature&quot;, this is a book you have to shove right up  to someone and make them read it right in front of you, attempting to  describe it by way of recommendation will only get strange looks and  perhaps people's revaulation of their opinion of you.  But how do you  describe it?  I took a stab at it and said it was about a drug addict and  in a sense that's right and in a sense that's so far from the truth as to  be absurd.  But absurd is what the book is all about, Burroughs seems to be  lampooning and satirizing everything he can about American culture, from  the highest skyscrapers to the utter dregs in the gutter, he hits all the  highs and lows of this country, and you can spend multiple readings trying  to piece together what it all means.  The narrative is completely  non-linear and really only the beginning and end make much sense, whether  that was delibrate or not or whether it was just the way it all fell  together is beyond me.  The middle you just sort of have to experience and  get whatever out of it you can, needless to say don't skip it, once you  wade past the bizarre imagery, absurdist characters and situations and the  nonstop onslaught of sexual activities (most of the them drug related),  you'll find some of the best writing this century.  There's  science-fiction, hallucatinations, crime, just about everything you can  think of.  And while you might think that Burroughs is just messing with  the reader and throwing up all that wild and perverse stuff as a front to  pretend he's a good writer, get to the literally breathtaking end and  you'll see that this man had talent that we rarely see.  Extremely ahead of  its time (it was written and published in the late fifties . . . there was  nothing remotely like this back then), much like William Gaddis' The  Recognitions a few years before (though for completely different reasons),  even today and in the years between, very little has come along that even  begins to match it for sheer style and audicity.  Not for the faint of  heart, but something everyone should attempt anyway.years between, very little has come along that even  begins to match it for sheer style and audicity.  Not for the faint of  heart, but something everyone should attempt anyway.	2000-09-11
US	52986477	R2F1IOWYJJVKUJ	0553569430	294867820	Brittle Innings	Books	5	6	6	N	Y	They said it couldn't be done	Or maybe they did.  Or maybe nobody ever thought of it before.  If you had  a contest of either the most unlikely types of books or ideas that you just  didn't think would work, this would probably top the list.  Baseball and  Gothic horror?  Taking place in WWII-era South?  In the summer?  But oh man  is it good, in large part to Bishop's attention to period detail and his  creation of a unique and feisty narrator in the young (and old) Danny  Boles.  The premise is that a young reporter has tracked down Mr Boles in  an attempt to write a book about his life (he's a well known baseball  scout) and Danny agrees, only if the first book the reporter does is a  story of his only season playing in a professional fashion, with the  Hellbenders.  Thus the story begins, winding along, following Danny and his  attempts to fit in with his team.  The team consists of some of the most  interesting characters, nay, people to come by in a long time.  There is no  one there that you can either straight out love or hate, the worst person  has an endearing trait, the best of them hides a secret of some sort.  Towering over it all literally is Jumbo Hank Clerval, the man who winds up  being Danny's roommate (partway through the book he loses the ability to  speak, which makes it even more interesting because Danny is forced to  watch without acting more often than not) and the focus of the book itself.  If you don't know how Mr Clerval is, well I won't spoil it for you, but  that's where the unlikely concept comes in.  The rest of the book is pitch  perfect summer baseball, I don't even like sports that much and I loved  this book.  You sweat with the team as they win and lose game after game,  fighting for the pennnant, trying to get some dignity and recognition in a  country where everyone else is focused on the war effort and using baseball  just as reason to forget their worries.  Against this backdrop the summer  falls and you are immersed into the South, warts and all, racism and  truimph, tragedy and heroism.  It's all there, this book breaks genres and  it's a book you can recommend to most anyone.  And I suggest you do.m and  truimph, tragedy and heroism.  It's all there, this book breaks genres and  it's a book you can recommend to most anyone.  And I suggest you do.	2000-09-06
US	52986477	R33IM3PH9I59PW	038549081X	709722953	The Handmaid's Tale	Books	5	44	54	N	N	Chilling morality tale	I could probably make a case for the implausibility of the concept that the book puts forward, but only if I got specific, the situation where  people (men or women) are used as merely property and not allowed to have  any rights of their own still happens all over the world, whether you like  it or not.  Ms. Atwood is too smart to try and predict what the future  might bring, instead she merely illustrates what happens when you stop  regarding people as people, when rights of a few take precedence over the  rights of everyone else (for the sake of expediency, alas).  In this wacky  world, women aren't allowed to read or write due to an ultra-Christian (?)  (they quote from the Bible) takeover of the country.  Women are divided  into Aunts, Marthas, Wives and of course the Handmaiden's, who exist to  have children and are given to various Commanders to try and make kids.  The novel concerns itself with the story of Offred (Of Fred) and it flips  back and forth between her life before the takeover, during her education  in those dark days before the present time and her current life as a  Handmaiden.  Atwood protrays all of this in very poetic language, the words  she chooses are sometimes breaktaking, but mostly it's in the images she  puts forward and in the general aura that the novel is given.  There's a  sense of inevitable helplessness, Offred isn't going to change the world by  herself and the world isn't going to change in the next day, she realizes  that and still wants to fight but isn't sure how.  The flashbacks are all  rendered quite nicely, and given the right sense of eerie timelessness.  The story is never given a date so it could happen anytime but the point  illustrated is more important than the details.  Some might find her a bit  too immersed in the concept, the story tends to float blissfully along but  she never gets preachy and even though has the country taken over by an  orthodox Christian group, she's not bashing Christainity, just about any  religion has buried in it somewhere the same primitive attitudes about  women.  But for me, it's about more than women, it's about people and what  happens when all of a sudden people are property, how it dehumanizes  everyone, even as you try to remain as human as you can.  A fine story,  with the people brought vividly to life, warts and all, and one gives one  pause to think.  Also, don't skip the historical section in the back, it's  a bit wordy and academic and doesn't really explain the cliffhanger ending  any better, but gives a better glimpse in everything.  All it takes is a  little perspective, I guess.any  religion has buried in it somewhere the same primitive attitudes about  women.  But for me, it's about more than women, it's about people and what  happens when all of a sudden people are property, how it dehumanizes  everyone, even as you try to remain as human as you can.  A fine story,  with the people brought vividly to life, warts and all, and one gives one  pause to think.  Also, don't skip the historical section in the back, it's  a bit wordy and academic and doesn't really explain the cliffhanger ending  any better, but gives a better glimpse in everything.  All it takes is a  little perspective, I guess.	2000-09-03
US	52986477	R2QCIVSGCX90CV	0446600776	367552236	Lovedeath	Books	5	10	10	N	N	Great introduction	For those wanting to get into the fiction of Dan Simmons without running  into the science fiction of Hyperion and the like, this is just about  perfect for them.  It hits all his other styles in one fell swoop, and at  the same time gives them to you in small digestible doses, so if you don't  like one, well there's four others to choose from.  This is basically five  novellas with the common theme of either love or death.  Now, neither are  very original themes for fiction (or anything) but the way Simmons tackles  them makes them infinitely memorable.  Most of this stuff is probably  considered horror, though only story is truly creepy, that being the  sublimely frightening &quot;Dying in Bangkok&quot; one of the few stories  that gave me a sick feeling while reading it (though the fact I was  barrelling down the highway in a car didn't help, I'm sure) and if you like  horror, that one alone makes the book worthwhile.  However there are  others.  You've got a fairly authentic Native American story, told by a  slightly sardonic narrator that never ceases to fascinate.  The lone  science fiction story is fairly touching as it shows a world where everyone  keeps reliving the past for lack of anything else to do (and some people  live in the past's of others . . . go read the book to find out what I  mean).  This one actually benefits the most from the short format, since he  gives enough detail about this world, but not so much that you're bored and  it overwhelms the story.  You want to know more, but you know enough to be  entertained.  There's a small story of a father and daughter that shows off  his skill with words and makes some nice points about life and love and  death and where they all fit together.  The centerpiece of the novel is  probably the WWI story, written as a diary of a man fighting in the  trenches, interspersed with poetry from the front.  Simmons obviously spent  the most time on this one, it's the longest and best researched and the  work shows.  This one shines in its poignancy and humanity, there are  touches of humor and horror and everything that makes a great story.  So,  chances are you're going to like at least two of these stories and you'll  like them enough so that it'll make the book worthwhile.  Simmons deserves  to be explored in other areas other than science fiction and this is by far  the best place to experience that.  Without a doubt.ows.  This one shines in its poignancy and humanity, there are  touches of humor and horror and everything that makes a great story.  So,  chances are you're going to like at least two of these stories and you'll  like them enough so that it'll make the book worthwhile.  Simmons deserves  to be explored in other areas other than science fiction and this is by far  the best place to experience that.  Without a doubt.	2000-08-22
US	52986477	R310KN1Z2WJI9R	0553277642	520523761	Phases of Gravity	Books	5	77	81	N	N	Minor masterpiece	I had never heard of this Dan Simmons book until the moment when I first saw it in some comic book store . . . and that immediately intruiged me.  Generally with a successful author you hear about all of their books,  whether it's the glorious peaks of their best work or the terrible quality  that is the worst they have to offer.  Curious I picked it up and put it on  a shelf to read until just the other day, and now I finally finished.  And  I'm definitely impressed.  This has to be one of the Simmons' least known  and most underrated works, all of his fans who read his Hyperion series or  even the fans who like his horror work should come and get this, because it  falls nicely in the middle.  Neither a science fiction nor a horror novel,  this time he chooses to write about the simplest and most complex of  topics: people.  The novel concerns the spiritual (in a sense) quest of a  former astronaut who once walked on the moon and his attempts to come to  terms with his life and all that has transpired.  It raises the interesting  question, once you've sacrificed nearly everything so you can do what only  a handful of men have done, isn't everything downhill after that.  And if  you leave your life in ruins because of those sacrifices, well you can't  stay in space forever and you've eventually got to come down and face the  music.  The more is vastly more complicated than that and even though it  doesn't have snarling vampires or weird spiky creatures (not that I don't  like those) guarenteed you won't miss them one bit.  Simmons crafts his  main character with all the depth of a real person and eventually he  becomes someone you want to know and someone you do get to know.  His style  is still marvelously apparent, his gift for description and detail never in  better evidence here, especially when describing dreams or nature  sequences, or even the cold beauty of space.  Most of all this book has  heart, Simmons has a real affection for the material and the characters and  that shows through on every page.  This is one of those books you can't go  wrong with.  Sadly out of print, try your best to snag a used copy and get  ready to discover another facet of the man that you might not have  realized.  If anything this proves that Simmons can do any type of novel he  wants and still create something of quality.ters and  that shows through on every page.  This is one of those books you can't go  wrong with.  Sadly out of print, try your best to snag a used copy and get  ready to discover another facet of the man that you might not have  realized.  If anything this proves that Simmons can do any type of novel he  wants and still create something of quality.	2000-08-02
US	52986477	R2RVTN2VA73KS6	0671670557	66853336	Inferno	Books	5	26	27	N	N	Heck of a ride	For some reason this seems to be the only Niven/Pournelle collaboration not in widespread print.  Indeed that's sad because this is probably one of the more distinctive of their collective musings, if still definitely  having their mark on it.  The title was no doubt easy to pick, in case  you're wondering if the book has anything to do with that wacky long work  of poetry by a certain Italian poet, you're absolutely right.  A science  fiction writer dies and for some strange reason gets sent to hell, which of  course he then proceeds to break down into science fiction terms (figuring  he must have gotten sent into the future . . . &quot;Infernoland&quot; I  love it!) while events and settings around him defy all sense of logic and  physics.  It's a rollicking ride through the netheregions, the boys barely  give you time to catch your breath as Carpentier attempts to replicate  Dante's journey through the place to get the heck out of there.  Along the  way he runs into the twentieth century versions of sins, some of which you  might disagree with, since a bunch are political in nature but I found most  of them fairly funny and the authors don't hit you over the head with their  social commentary.  He also runs into some notorious historical figures and  the identity of his guide is at first so seemingly obvious that you can't  believe that they had the gall to actually include him in the book and then  you wonder how come Carpenter doesn't realize until long after you do.  A  great companion to Dante's poem, it raises a few religious questions just  to give you something to think about but overall it's a fun read.	2000-07-31
US	52986477	R3E5943YYGKOGW	0375703748	118882153	Venus Plus X	Books	5	4	5	N	N	A fine utopia indeed	When this book came out I'm sure it was highly contraversial (or would have been, if science fiction wasn't generally ignored as a &quot;serious&quot; genre) since it basically tried to show that logically  there were no differences between the male and female genders and that a  race consisting of only one gender might not only succeed but prosper at  the same time.  And not as a forced totaliarian camp where all freedom and  free will are squashed in favor of the &quot;Utopian State&quot; indeed  here Sturgeon shows us that with a little love it's quite possible for  anything to work and that differences really aren't that important as long  as there's love.  Coming from anyone else, it would probably come off as  trite but Sturgeon has this gift probably because he was utterly sincere.  He may not have believed that this utopia would ever come into being, but  he believed firmly in the feelings and emotions behind it and that comes  through on every page.  Be warned, this is no slambang action science  fiction book where multiheaded aliens shout heated cliches to slim suited  astronauts with laser guns as everyone races around the galaxy.  Frankly,  not much happens here.  Charlie Johns in transported to a future world  where humanity as we know it is gone and in its place is a utopia  consisting of a single gender, where children are worshipped above all else  and harmony and peace are the order of the day.  They want Charlie's  thoughts on such a utopia and so show him around, most of the book is  concerned with showing this world and the prose is some of Sturgeon's most  exuburent, crackling with emotion.  Sure there are mysteries to be solved  and details to puzzle out but for the most part this is Sturgeon showing us  a perfect world.  And he does it without being sappy or preachy, the  closest the book comes to that is one somewhat interesting section where  Philos writes a letter to Charlie Johns detailing the lack of differences  between guys and gals and why people perceive those differences.  Even  better, the narrative is interspersed with the life of a normal family,  showing us just how totally normal people can have such biases.  Even you  or I.  My favorite part is when the parents take their kids to watch a  movie at a drive in and don't want them to see a sex scene, but bring them  front and center when the graphically violent Western starts.  This book is  ignored I think in favor of the more well known &quot;More Than Human&quot;  but it doesn't deserve that, it ranks as something that should be at the  top of just about everyone's reading list, especially if they want  something thought provoking.d why people perceive those differences.  Even  better, the narrative is interspersed with the life of a normal family,  showing us just how totally normal people can have such biases.  Even you  or I.  My favorite part is when the parents take their kids to watch a  movie at a drive in and don't want them to see a sex scene, but bring them  front and center when the graphically violent Western starts.  This book is  ignored I think in favor of the more well known &quot;More Than Human&quot;  but it doesn't deserve that, it ranks as something that should be at the  top of just about everyone's reading list, especially if they want  something thought provoking.	2000-07-26
US	52986477	RQ9XD7R34MMBR	0881844918	201385580	Galaxies	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Searingly funny	I think one of the reviews posted on the book says much the same thing about it, but chances are you the people out there have never seen this book, let alone heard of it.  Shame on someone.  I was vaguely familar with  Malzberg, having heard of his great works Beyond Apollo, Herovit's World  and Chorale, but seeing this slim volume in a comic book store (three  bucks!) grabbed my attention.  The plot summary on the back of the book  does no justice to the actual content of the book and indeed makes one  wonder if the person who did that actually read the book, unless Malzberg  himself wrote it as a complicated joke.  The &quot;plot&quot; then.  Basically, just as the author writes in the beginning, it's the series of  notes for a novel called &quot;Galaxies&quot; where a woman space  technician accidentally pilots her ship into a black galaxy (a black hole,  essentially).  The author uses the idea of sketches for a novel and this as  a jump off point for some of the funniest explorations of the nature of  writing and science fiction ever, both as a genre and as a publishing  market.  I've rarely laughed out loud so many times, Malzberg dips from  seriousness to hilarity while keeping that same dry cynical tone (even  funnier if you've seen a picture of him, he has the most dour, long face  I've ever seen), all the while seeming to wink just at the edges that it's  all in good fun.  He debates the content of the novel, how much sex to put  in, where science comes into play, the nature of science in science  fiction, the entire bit and manages not only to hit his mark each and every  time but manages to make all this stuff just as relevant today, probably  the hardest part.  Back then people probably thought this book was  &quot;weird&quot; after all it is written as notes for a novel but that's  the entire point there was no other way for the point to be gotten across  (and as the author says the novel could never be written properly, since it  takes place in the 40th century).  A slim work that won't take up much of  your time, you'll probably spend more time thinking about what you've read  and pondering it than actually reading the book.  Alas, maybe it's good  that it's not in print today, genius publishers would probably turn it into  an expensive trade paperback, inflate the price and no one would want to  spend that kind of money on such a small book.  Easier to snag it in some  garage sale or used book store (not that he doesn't deserve the money) and  pass it along to friends.  One of the more essential science fiction books,  especially if you want to understand what this genre just might be all  about.0th century).  A slim work that won't take up much of  your time, you'll probably spend more time thinking about what you've read  and pondering it than actually reading the book.  Alas, maybe it's good  that it's not in print today, genius publishers would probably turn it into  an expensive trade paperback, inflate the price and no one would want to  spend that kind of money on such a small book.  Easier to snag it in some  garage sale or used book store (not that he doesn't deserve the money) and  pass it along to friends.  One of the more essential science fiction books,  especially if you want to understand what this genre just might be all  about.	2000-07-25
US	52986477	R1P7EHJUKT8H5	0812550293	504533718	The Path of Daggers (The Wheel of Time, Book 8)	Books	5	2	7	N	N	Caveats abound	I really like this series and to a much lesser degree, this book but I feel like for every good thing about this book I have to include a &quot;but&quot;.  But what?  The eighth book in what is starting to feel  like an endless series, I got this when it came out and didn't read it for  two years while working on other books (especially since I wasn't  overwhelmed by book seven, where I can't remember a darn thing that  happened), alas that meant that I had forgotten most of the minor  continuing plotlines (there are lots) and all the minor characters (even  more of them).  The glossary is absolutely pathetic, the one in the first  few books was great, giving you loads of information, it was updated for  each book, here you're given a slew of characters (sort of like being a  teacup with a firehose aimed at you) with little immediate explanation,  it's assumed you'll know everything, I guess.  With that out of the way,  you dive into the book and it's fairly enjoyable, Jordan has lost none of  his gift for writing, his prose is remarkably detailed, sometimes overly so  but he really knows how to immerse you in his world, though he skimps on  weird details at times (at what point did it start snowing nonstop?).  His  characters are like friends of the family, after eight books you feel you  know them pretty well.  Alas that's also part of the problem, little new is  being revealed to us here it's the characters just in a new situation which  is entertaining but not revelatory.  And he tends to harp on the same  theme: men versus women.  Yes we know that men don't understand women and  women don't understand men and that when people fall in love the person  they fall in love with both frustrates and exhilerates them.  After eight  books you think that they would have come to the conclusion that there is  no conclusion without reminding us of it every three pages?  The plots  aren't as well integrated as before, Perrin's is utterly useless for the  most part (except towards the end, when stuff starts happening), after a  promising start Elayne's peters into nothing (except towards the end again)  but Rand's remains as gripping as always, mostly as his fight with insanity  is taken up another notch and he edges even closer to losing it.  The  battle scenes are well done, even if we've been here before, most of the  characters don't get involved in the fights anyhow.  Jordan keeps little  explosions of intrigue to move us along and even when pacing is nonexistent  it keeps you reading.  The Forsaken are fun as always, even if it is  getting annoying that the Dark One keeps resurrecting most of them  everytime they get killed (I wonder if Jordan realized he offed too many  too fast, the body count was getting high at one point as Rand went on a  bit of a rampage).  But lesser plots are just confusing, most of the  renegade Aiel I couldn't even keep straight without a scorecard and I keep  forgetting which Aes Sedai are Black Ajah and which are just plotting and  there's just too many chacters with similar names sharing the same scenes.  And Mat doesn't even appear (the biggest offense, second only to Min not  appearing and Rand not even showing up until we're halfway down).  Bottom  line after all that: you've made up your mind here without my help.  If  you're hooked like me you're going to keep reading even if it feels like  Jordan fell asleep at the keyboard because there's just enough good stuff  to make us think that he can pull a decent ending out of all of this yet.  And if you hate it, well you do, nothing wrong with that.  For the new  reader, start from the beginning, maybe wait until the series is finished.  Me, I'll be waiting for book nine, and maybe things'll start happening.wards the end, when stuff starts happening), after a  promising start Elayne's peters into nothing (except towards the end again)  but Rand's remains as gripping as always, mostly as his fight with insanity  is taken up another notch and he edges even closer to losing it.  The  battle scenes are well done, even if we've been here before, most of the  characters don't get involved in the fights anyhow.  Jordan keeps little  explosions of intrigue to move us along and even when pacing is nonexistent  it keeps you reading.  The Forsaken are fun as always, even if it is  getting annoying that the Dark One keeps resurrecting most of them  everytime they get killed (I wonder if Jordan realized he offed too many  too fast, the body count was getting high at one point as Rand went on a  bit of a rampage).  But lesser plots are just confusing, most of the  renegade Aiel I couldn't even keep straight without a scorecard and I keep  forgetting which Aes Sedai are Black Ajah and which are just plotting and  there's just too many chacters with similar names sharing the same scenes.   And Mat doesn't even appear (the biggest offense, second only to Min not  appearing and Rand not even showing up until we're halfway down).  Bottom  line after all that: you've made up your mind here without my help.  If  you're hooked like me you're going to keep reading even if it feels like  Jordan fell asleep at the keyboard because there's just enough good stuff  to make us think that he can pull a decent ending out of all of this yet.   And if you hate it, well you do, nothing wrong with that.  For the new  reader, start from the beginning, maybe wait until the series is finished.   Me, I'll be waiting for book nine, and maybe things'll start happening.	2000-07-24
US	52986477	R2A8ZDYAPMP0T4	0141180633	167202132	Vineland (Classic, 20th-Century, Penguin)	Books	5	4	6	N	N	Worth the trip (pun intended)	Can anyone not be disappointed reading this after the masterpiece that is &quot;Gravity's Rainbow&quot; . . . sure, but the trick is not to compare  the two works to each other but to let each one stand on its own merits.  On that note, this novel more than succeeds.  It doesn't have as many  &quot;read out loud passages&quot; as his other novels have and sometimes  the prose is quite impentrable but all in all it's a zany trip.  I can't  even do justice to the plot, it basically keeps folding upon itself, a  bunch of people are looking for another bunch of people is the summary in  essence but the story stops dead often for flashbacks as they explain how  everyone met . . . the point of this I imagine is to contrast the sixties  with the eighties and show what happened to all those hippies trying to  change the world, they all became pawns of the government, even the ones  you thought never would have, while the government went slowly and  completely crazy.  And everyone just watches televison.  Pynchon's sense of  humor is quite apparent here and I'll be using &quot;would have taken a  major detour off the highway of life&quot; phrase around friends for weeks.  The problem that most people would have this book is that his descriptions  are long and not as dazzling as we're used to, most of the structure  consists of long winding sentences that tend to make you forget how they  started by the time you finish them.  There's lots of details packed into  those paragraph, a skimming won't do anything for you but make you keep  flipping back pages because you missed something.  For a Pynchon fan,  though, or even newcomers, it's a good read though, sometimes slow but  never boring.  Mostly Pynchon-lite, maybe Pynchon on auto-pilot, I think he  tossed this one off while writing &quot;Mason &amp; Dixon&quot; (and if you  can read that one, this book'll be no problem . . . honest) but that's not  a bad thing is it now?  Won't change the opinion of anyone who isn't  converted and refuses to be, but anyone interested in diving into the man's  genius, this is probably the second best place to start (the first probably  being &quot;Crying of Lot 49&quot;).ed and refuses to be, but anyone interested in diving into the man's  genius, this is probably the second best place to start (the first probably  being &quot;Crying of Lot 49&quot;).	2000-07-19
US	52986477	R3KTDOW6OEH62O	038533351X	909389327	Bluebeard: A Novel (Delta Fiction)	Books	5	72	74	N	N	One of his finest	I've read lots of Vonnegut and frankly I thought this was one of his lesser works.  Boy, was I wrong.  Here we have Vonnegut at his most focused on a long time, tearing off page after page that will make you laugh and  stop and think at the same time.  The story is basically the autobiography  of an obscure artist character in Breakfast of Champions, but here he turns  Rabo into someone you might think is real, so does his humor and pain  cascade off the page.  He bounces back and forth between his past and his  present at his mansion where he just wants to be left alone, in the great  Vonnegut tradition (and he doesn't need time travel this time out),  comparing and contrasting the worst moments of his life with the best and  trying to figure out what it all means.  To me, this is one of Vonnegut's  most human novels, his sense of satire and wit are still apparent and sharp  but the entire story isn't devoted to Vonnegut making some barbed point  about us and society as a whole, it's there but there's more time put into  having get to know Rabo has someone who might live down the street from us.  I devoured this book and found myself satisified, even the long  anticipated secret of what lies in the potato barn was well worth the  suspense (and it really is), this is the most fun I've had with a Vonnegut  book in long time.  Probably one of his more obscure works, it deserves to  be read along with his other classics.  It may not reach those peaks but it  comes darn close.	2000-07-17
US	52986477	R1PV3ZECIVUB9D	0395924812	543398372	Angry Candy	Books	5	14	18	N	N	Dark yet poignant	There are only a few authors who I'll seek out and read short story collections, my preference being full novels.  Theodore Sturgeon is one.  Harlan Ellison is another.  After whetting my appetite with The Essential  Ellison, I moved on to this and was kept just as pleased, though not  pleased in a happy sense, pleased in a sense that each story picked at some  part of my brain, making me confront my ideas about death and life and  living and souls, made me look at it from my perspective and his  perspective to see why we thought the way we did.  These stories seemed to  be written in anger, helpless flailing anger, as Ellison writes in the  introduction (and hints at emotionally in the haunting closing story  &quot;The Function of Dream Sleep&quot;), at the time these were written  people who were close to him in his life were dying almost every month  (there's a list going down the side of the intro detailing who died when .  . . morbid), and that intro is almost worth the price of the book itself,  for it sets the tone for all the other stories, heartfelt and emotional,  unflinching and passionate.  To go by names would be unnecessary, to name  favorites would be useless.  You have to read them all, experience them and  wonder yourself as Ellison dances from genre to genre, from mystery to  science fiction, effortlessly, stamping his print on each story, marking it  with anger and sadness.  He bared his soul in these stories and while it  makes for a gripping and sometimes harrowing read, it doesn't make the  reading any less necessary.  He didn't turn away from his fears and sorrows  and you shouldn't turn away from them either.	2000-07-17
US	52986477	R2S1OA13NGU99Y	007553648X	161451712	Light in August (Modern Library College Editions Series)	Books	5	36	39	N	N	The South rises	Nothing is ever simple in a Faulkner book.  However plainly the people talk, however straightforward that the situations seem, there are layers and layers of things to dig through to find the ultimate truth, if indeed  there is any.  I've already read Sound and the Fury and as glorious as that  book was, this novel absolutely captivated me.  It's Faulkner's way with  words, he's not flashy like some contemporary authors, preferring to slowly  wind his way into your consciousness with his gift of writing.  It's only  as you read, maybe as you peruse a passage for the second time do you see  the little details that you missed the first time out, the choice of a word  here, the flow of a paragraph.  And his characters, all beautifully drawn,  with flaws and cracks and everything, but even the farthest gone of his  lowlives has some pearl of wisdom to impart, his pillars all have dark  secrets.  In short they're just like his, if we lived in the South at the  turn of the century.  Faulkner captures it all, weaving his characters  together with the skill of a master, no seams showing, everything seeming  to happen naturally.  Even when the story detours to tell someone's  backstory, it seems to come at the perfect moment.  If I sound a bit  fawning, that's because this book deserves it, nothing puts together the  picture of a time better than this, and as an aspiring writer I am in  sincere awe of Faulkner's ability to reflect even the more complex of  emotions with a word or a sentence.  He has to be read to be believed and  it definitely must be experienced.  Just immerse yourself in a time and  place thought long gone, that still lurks in the corners of people's  thoughts and the traditions that never die.	2000-07-16
US	52986477	RTVF1BKIXZKJH	0553288199	86567931	Fountains of Paradise, The	Books	5	40	47	N	N	To the moon!	Or not.  But close enough.  The sad thing about reading this book and reading the later Clarke books is the contrasting quality, this appears to be the last time he had his act completely together, later books have had  little sparks of ideas here and there, but mostly lack that roar of  inspiration.  Not here.  Clarke goes for broke, first putting forward an  idea that was totally new at the time: a space elevator.  For those of you  not scientifically inclined, it's basically a long tether connecting a  station orbiting the planet, and people could run up and down the cable in  cars.  Basically it would make spaceflight easier because ships could  launch and refuel up there and not have to worry about gravity and escape  velocity and it just opens the entire solar system up.  These days it's  been more commonplace, writers don't even bother centering entire books  around it (though Kim Stanley Robinson probably had this book in mind when  he had the Martians install an elevator in his Red/Green/Blue Mars book),  but back then it was a fairly new idea.  And a great one, it's out there  but enough so the reader can envision it, the problem with the Ringworld is  that I have trouble picturing it within the realms of reality, I just  can't, I know it's possible but I just can't do it.  Here, it's gloriously  real and Clarke takes you every step of the way.  He sets the novel in a  renamed Sri Lanka and then proceeds to play with the history, framing the  story about a king who built a series of gardens to reach the gods two  thousand years before.  Also there's this alien spacecraft that happens to  pass through years before and laughs at the thought of God, which I thought  had little relevance (I thought Clarke was just making sly references to  Rendevous with Rama at first) and that makes perfect sense as well.  It's a  quick read, but not a light one, the science concepts are presented so that  those without engineer's degrees can follow.  Alas it's also out of print  (cue rant: WHY?) but well worth your time to find, used book stores should  have a copy if you try and look.  But if you ever thought that we're  reached the limits of our technical achievements, go read this and see just  how far we can go.int  (cue rant: WHY?) but well worth your time to find, used book stores should  have a copy if you try and look.  But if you ever thought that we're  reached the limits of our technical achievements, go read this and see just  how far we can go.	2000-07-11
US	52986477	R2KT2NJCPXZV1U	037570373X	829883086	The Dreaming Jewels	Books	5	30	32	N	N	Moving debut	I think that his first novel, although he had written plenty of short stories (and would only add to that number . . . the ten volume series reprinting all his short stories is a godsend, check it out!).  The plot  isn't so much science fiction as borderline fantasy, Horty is a young man  caught doing something disgusting behind the bleachers (you'll probably  laugh when you find out what it is, either Sturgeon was making some sort of  a joke or people were really different back in the fifties) and his mean  stepfather &quot;accidentally&quot; severs three of his fingers (though not  the most disgusting finger severing sequence, the second one is far more  disturbing), so he runs off and joins the circus.  The plot starts to twist  and turn at that point and jump ahead, sometimes not to its complete  benefit, a lot of things either don't get explained or aren't explained  well (the origins of the jewels and what they do does seem to change as the  story progresses) but the thing that hooks you in and keeps you reading is  Sturgeon's overriding compassion and love for everything and everyone.  He  can find something sympathetic is just about everyone (the only character  that I couldn't like even some small part was Horty's stepfather, I found  him mostly pathetic but that was the point), even the dreaded Maneater has  some redeeming values.  There's a lot of touching scenes, especially as  Horty comes to grips with what he might be and the consequences of that.  Really it's just a heartwarming novel written by a guy who had a great  store of humanity and showed it in his stories.  Never dripping with  sentiment to the point where you feel like you're overwhelmed with emotion,  the book remains compulsive reading and just as essential reading as his  other two novels (More Than Human and Venus Plus X), he keeps things brisk  and moving.  Simply put, he showed right from the start that even in the  beginning he was as good as the best.  And he only got better from here.re.	2000-07-10
US	52986477	R32VG8JQRJJ63A	0807062995	751041157	The Female Man (Bluestreak)	Books	5	152	162	N	N	Thought provoking, for all genders	I'm a guy.  Just thought I'd get that out of the way before I write this.  I knew this was considered a classic of science fiction before I even found a used copy, but I have to admit that I wasn't looking all that forward to  reading it.  For one the cover (the old original one on the paperback) is a  garish thing, basically a feathered woman putting on another skin.  Plus I  knew the book was about female issues and specifically issues that came up  during movements that started in the seventies, when the book was written.  At least it was short, I told myself.  I'd get it over with quick.  Boy,  was I surprised.  Not only does this rank among the best books I've ever  read, but it gave me a lot to think about.  Part of that has to do with  Russ' style, she cascades all sorts of chapters together, bouncing back and  forth, her prose is excellent, not just femenist rhetoric, she brings up  all sorts of points about everything.  And her contrast of the different  worlds, there's Joanna's world, which is like ours (she's the female trying  to be liberated), and Jeannine's world, where the Depression never ended  (she's meek and just wants to go along with the group, essentially), then  there's Janet's, where men don't exist at all (my favorite scene is where  the newspeople ask how she has sex if there are no men and Janet explains  to their dismay).  There's one other too but that's a surprise.  The style  is sometimes confusing at first, sometimes you don't know who is narrating  or which character is which but after a while it all starts falling  together.  Russ peppers it with her own observations throughout, my  favorite being when she anticipates the reviews the book is going to get  (not good ones).  Is it angry?  Sure but back then she had a lot to be  angry about, and she comes across rationally through, her anger is  righteous and not of the &quot;all men should die!&quot; type of rage.  Like I said, it gives guys and gals lots to ponder and deserves to be wider  read.  The style may be off putting but the message is clear as anything.  You just have to dig a little with thought to figure it out.e wider  read.  The style may be off putting but the message is clear as anything.   You just have to dig a little with thought to figure it out.	2000-07-05
US	52986477	RRSNEE9T6Y53B	044180697X	922341911	This immortal	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Call him Conrad	One of the early Hugo winners, I wasn't sure why it won at first.  The style is very different, almost rambling.  Conrad is an immortal who's had a bunch of different names over the years but basically really enjoys  living, unlike immortals in other books.  Earth has messed itself up and a  bunch of aliens have bought it as real estate and Conrad is taking one of  them around and showing him the sights to help him with a book he's  writing.  There's not much in the way of plot, which is what turned me off  when I started reading it.  Not much happens, true.  But Zelanzy has a gift  for description and Conrad is one of the fully rounded and complex  characters ever.  There's a definite sense of humor in the book which is  definitely welcome considering the surroundings.  The situations they tend  to blunder into but the plot is more episodic than anything else, and most  of the conflicts are fairly interesting.  Mostly it's just the way he  describes things, by the time you finish you feel you know Conrad, or  whatever he wants to call himself.  His world is very detailed and the  echoes of the Greek myths are there, sort of like lurking in the shadows  behind the rest of the plot but it colors the actions of the characters.  All in all, a quick read and worth your time if you can find it used.  Probably not as well known as his Amber books but something to look into if  you want something that's the same and different.  Or something.	2000-07-05
US	52986477	R1GV5FJKTWTWXW	0440539811	727576641	The Illuminatus! Trilogy: The Eye in the Pyramid, The Golden Apple, Leviathan	Books	5	14	14	N	N	Not the answer to everything but darn entertaining	I bought this years ago after a friend swore to me that it was one of the greatest things ever written.  The question then remains, after finishing it last night, was it worth the wait and effort?  Sure, I found it highly  fun, a lot of the stuff was hard to follow at first but once you get into  the book (which requires some patience) and just accept everything, the  story become much easier to follow and things start falling into place.  The plot seems to take a backseat to everything else but it seems to focus  on the Illumininati controlling everything for some end that might have to  do with the government, Atlantis, or aliens from outer space.  Or  something.  The characters are fun even if they are more than mouthpieces  for different ideals (the liberal, the skeptic, etc) and some are too smug  for their own good.  The hopping around is extremely disconcerting at first  and is used at some points to just hide a lack of ideas but there are some  parts in here that rank among some of the best stuff I've read, some of it  due to the crisscrossing back and forth among the different narratives.  I  think some people take the book too seriously, I know the authors seem to  postulate the answers to the reality behind everything but to me they don't  seem to be taking themselves all that seriously and while the story isn't  one big joke they do seem to be having some fun here.  But like all great  books it makes you think at parts, even as you're disgusted, bored,  confused or a combination of all three.  Fortunately this was packaged as  three books because I can't imagine reading these separately at all, the  entire novel just blends into itself, with chapers and parts just seeming  like convenient divisions to make life a little easier on the reader.  After a while you'll find yourself devouring it pages at a time.  Highly  recommended, and you don't even need psychedelics to enjoy it fully.	2000-07-04
US	52986477	RTOM868J6045R	0844629952	1396600	Last and First Men & Star Maker	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Evolution's not on our side	There's a moment in Star Maker where the narrator is experiencing the sum history of the Universe and it goes on for pages and the entire history of mankind as established in Last and First Men takes an entire rather small  paragraph.  Sort of puts us in our place, wouldn't you say?  The genius  that coupled these two masterpieces together should be rewarded because one  really can't be read without the other, they complement each other in a way  that few books of today rarely do. Last and First Men is the slightly less  interesting of the two if only because we're less interesting than the rest  of the Universe and a good sized chunk of the beginning is Stapledon's  prediction for this and the last century, most of which are horribly off.  Skim past those chapters and get to the real meat of the &quot;story&quot;.  This isn't a typical novel, more like a history book but what a textbook,  summing nothing less than the entire history of mankind.  There's a depth  to his imagination here that few other writers have even approached and  while his extrapolations of humanity are probably not correct, they are  certainly awe-inspiring to think about.  He doesn't bother with technology  and such, preferring to let us know about their spiritual and moral  character, giving us something that we can relate to with these far future  people. Still, as good as Last and First Men is, Star Maker surpasses it in  every possible way.  Having a bit more of a plot this time out (a man finds  his consciousness flung across the Universe and together with others tries  to find the Star Maker), we're propelled along worlds and ages that we can  barely conceive.  The narrative retains a bit more compassion and humanity  to it while we can only sit there and watch as stars live and die, as  planets evolve and collapse, as creatures beyond our imagination join a  single telepathic mind as everyone tries in the last dying days of the  Universe to find the bloke who saw fit to create all of this.  And when the  answers start coming fast and fierce, if you don't feel some sense of awe  as Stapledon reveals a picture of the Universe of such scope and wonder,  then frankly you must be dead.  In a day where everyone is trying to be  flashy and give people instant gratification, Stapledon wins by using clear  and concise and sometimes poetic writing to bring across utterly fantastic  ideas that still seem plausible because of their clarity.  A masterpiece of  science fiction, it's not easy reading but it's thought proking and  wondrous, just like the best should be.this.  And when the  answers start coming fast and fierce, if you don't feel some sense of awe  as Stapledon reveals a picture of the Universe of such scope and wonder,  then frankly you must be dead.  In a day where everyone is trying to be  flashy and give people instant gratification, Stapledon wins by using clear  and concise and sometimes poetic writing to bring across utterly fantastic  ideas that still seem plausible because of their clarity.  A masterpiece of  science fiction, it's not easy reading but it's thought proking and  wondrous, just like the best should be.	2000-06-08
US	52986477	R198XFZMB8HFV7	0446362662	318619454	Summer of Night (Aspect Fantasy)	Books	5	8	10	N	N	Bradbury meets Stephen King	This was out of print when I first got it, fortunately it seems to have gone back into print (especially since the sequel is still in print, I think) and that's a good thing.  I'm not a gigantic Stephen King fan (only  read Cujo, only mildly impressed), but I am a huge Dan Simmons fan and  after reading the impossibly good Hyperion (totally different genre though)  I figured that just about anything with his name on it has to be at least  decent.  I knew he had written horror before and so I grabbed this hoping  for a good read.  And I got it.  Telling the story of a pack of boys in the  midwest during the sixties (new events at random times on radios remind you  of the time period) basically it attempts to convey the wide open promise  of summer in a more innocent time.  Of course the contrast of that feeling  and the utter horror that the boys experience makes for good reading and  Simmons pulls out all the stops.  This was highly atmospheric though,  introducing each character and giving them separate personalities and then  revealing the horror slowly, building the intensity up.  It wasn't horribly  frightening but there were plenty of good suspenseful moments and once one  of the kids gets bumped off (I'm not telling who) I realized all bets were  off.  The only complaints I had were that the kids seemed to curve waayyy  too much, I mean I'm nearly twice their age and I don't consider myself a  prude and heck my friends do their fair share of cussing but not as much as  these twelve year olds.  It made them sound more like much older folk.  But  it's a minor quibble, though I think the purpose of the horror in the  school could have been elaborated on a bit more too, it was just sort of  there.  But then the essence of horror is in what you don't know rather  than what you do know.  If you know everything about something, you can't  be scared can you now?  Not on par with Hyperion of course but a fine  horror novel nontheless and well worth your time.	2000-05-25
US	52986477	R18EBEGF1PSFD2	0441790550	135813149	The Stress of Her Regard	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Better than English class	For all of you who didn't pay attention in school, especially during the section on Romantic poets, Tim Powers will make you regret that.  In this novel, he puts forward the concept that the best of the poets (Keats,  Byron, Shelley) were inspired by this vampire type thing.  Intertwined with  that is the story of another man who finds himself married to the vampire  and all the consequences that entails.  This story has to be one of Powers'  creepiest and even if the plot isn't as totally convoluted (yet sensible)  as Last Call or Anubis Gates, it's still darn good, his eye for period  detail is uncanny, the amount of research he must have done is staggering  because everything feels right.  I've no idea what the poets were like in  real life but I have a feeling that they were not unlike the portrayals  here.  We'll never really know but this is good enough.  But here he shows  his typical sense of imagination, with enough ideas for three full novels.  It's a bit darker than his other books and a little heavier on the gorier  side of violence but it's everything that you would generally expect from  an author this good.  Oddly enough it's out of print though I don't see  why, they brought back Drawing of the Dark recently, now if they would only  bring this, On Stranger Tides and Dinner at Deviant's Palace, I think there  will be a lot of happy people out there.  But that's just one opinion.	2000-05-25
US	52986477	R3IJNGNTXG4Z5R	0553012665	894115662	Little, Big	Books	5	116	125	N	N	Beyond good	Wow.  That's all I can really say about this.  I'm not sure what more I can say that would make you go out and seek this book down at all costs (the other reviewers here already having done a fine job of kindling that  desire hopefully) but every little bit helps and maybe some publisher will  read all these and realize that this book deserves to be in print.  So . .  . deep breath, where to start?  I could say that this easily ranks among  the best books I've ever read but that tells you nothing.  So why do I love  it so?  The story in essence is a tale (or Tale) of one family's (one large  family) association with fairies.  But this isn't a typical fantasy novel.  For one thing the focus is entirely on the family, the story lunges  backwards and forwards in time and the family tree in the beginning is  given there for a reason . . . pay attention to it.  There's isn't much  action but frankly you don't miss it, the action that is there is implied,  Crowley shows us the mold and lets our imagination fill the spaces in, the  way the best writers do.  And ah, the language.  If only every fantasy  novel could capture the elegance and sheer range of his words.  Whether  he's being funny or serious or sensual or touching or whatever, there are  passages you just want to read outloud.  And you will be moved, he'll make  you feel joy, despair and everything in between.  George Mouse's retelling  of his encounter with Sophie's baby has to be one of the most riveting  pieces of literature I've ever read.  But the overall tone is gentle,  images of spring and winter with spring not far ahead (or behind) fill  every corner.  The fairies' influence is everywhere but they're rarely  seen, which is absolutely great.  One of the few perfect books in  existence, I never wanted it to end and when it did, I felt perfectly  satisified.  Do whatever you can to find this book, the only bad thing  about finishing it is that you know that it'll take a long time before you  find a book nearly as excellent.  But you can always read it again.  One of  the forgotten classics of all time, it deserves wider recognition.early as excellent.  But you can always read it again.  One of  the forgotten classics of all time, it deserves wider recognition.	2000-05-09
US	52986477	R3GZXWA105IXR7	0385128312	654482900	Engine Summer	Books	5	38	41	N	N	Like a dream	If Little, Big is supposed to be his absolute masterpiece then I'm really looking forward to reading it (it's next on my list) because this book was one of the most lyrical and poignant books I've ever read.  Crowley is one of the most poetic writers to grace the SF/fantasy genres, the only  comparsions that come even close are Tim Powers, Michael Moorcock and  Samuel R Delany and even then they're nothing like Crowley.  This book here  is his major contribution to the SF canon, but because of its out of print  status (my edition was printed in the early eighties, how long ago did it  go out? and why?) it's mostly stayed relegated to cult novel catagories,  leaving people like me and others to sing its praises and get his name out  there.  But about the book.  A riff on the theme of post-war America, this  is completely unlike any of the books I've ever read on the topic.  It's  not surprising plot wise (in fact the plot is rather straightforward,  progressing from point A to point B quite easily) and the idea of people  growing up in the shadow of the end of the war, it having happened so long  ago that nobody can even remember the old days, surrounded by pieces of  machinery created by the old civilization (the angels) and just basically  living.  But I don't know, because of the way he writes, the entire novel  is given this pastoral feel, like it takes place in an endless summer, I  can vividly picture Rush That Speaks and his people frolicking in the lost  land not even knowing what it all used to be.  It gives it this dreamlike  quality and sometimes the action borders on the surreal, but it's always  gentle and lyrical.  Simply put this is one of those books that has to be  read, and slowly, to let the images develop in your head and lounge around  there for a bit.  And the ending is one of the best and most satisfying  that I've seen in a long time and a little sad at the same time.  Enough  with the plaudits, this is one of the most distinctive SF books ever  written and more than deserves everyone's attention.r  written and more than deserves everyone's attention.	2000-04-26
US	52986477	RSG13977L2JNZ	0553373986	655638634	Three Novels: The Deep, Engine Summer, and Beasts	Books	5	3	5	N	N	All about The Deep	Unfortunately, while I have Engine Summer (and Little, Big) I haven't read either yet and I've never even seen The Beasts (though I'd snap it up if I found it, probably), this is the only place on Amazon where I can write  about The Deep, Crowley's famous first novel.  This is one weird book, let  me put it that way and not weird like mindblowingly weird but just . . .  weird.  I don't know, I can't explain it but the book feels like it takes  place in a fever dream, there's this unreal quality about everything.  The  plot then.  Someone has apparently constructed a giant disk in space and  attached a long cord to it (so they say) and there are people on the top of  the disc and they endlessly fight in this war of succession.  To this mess  comes a Visitor who doesn't remember why he came here or even who made him  and for most of the story he serves as an observer to the events going on.  The only problem I had with this was some of the characters are hard to  keep straight because they aren't given proper names, you've got &quot;Red  Senlen&quot; and &quot;Red Senlen's Son&quot; and Redhand and Old Redhand  and Younger Redhand and Learned Redhand and King Little Black and Black  Harrah and Young Harrah . . . you can see the problem.  That's a fairly  minor quibble though, this is a book that deserves to be tracked down and  read.  Crowley's writing is amazing, especially since this was his first  novel, it's entirely poetic without getting long winded, with a few words  he paints brilliant pictures.  The premise is utterly unique in its  presentation (for the record, I believe that the folks on the disc are  reenacting the War of the Roses) and the plot winds along nicely, there  aren't many &quot;explosions&quot; but you just snake along, caught up in  the dream.  The ending is also totally unexpected and completely fits in  with the tone of the novel.  This is one of the few totally satisifying  books I had read, I had expected a lot out of this guy because of the  reputation I had heard and he blew away everything I expected.  And he only  got better.  My advice then, get everything you can by this guy, it might  take some effort but I have a feeling it'll be worth it.  Again, the fact  that this brilliant author is out of print and many many many lesser lights  are kept in print is beyond me.  Get the word out and keep his name alive!the  reputation I had heard and he blew away everything I expected.  And he only  got better.  My advice then, get everything you can by this guy, it might  take some effort but I have a feeling it'll be worth it.  Again, the fact  that this brilliant author is out of print and many many many lesser lights  are kept in print is beyond me.  Get the word out and keep his name alive!	2000-04-21
US	52986477	R3FKVP4HE6BQQV	0441003486	667858391	Blood Music	Books	5	16	20	N	N	Hard science Childhood's End	For those few among you who don't know that my little title blurb means, Arthur C Clarke once wrote a nifty little book where the human race basically combined into this singular &quot;Overmind&quot; sort of thing and eventually left the planet to explore the Universe and join it.  Sound  familiar.  Blood Music reminds me of Greg Bear reading it and actually  trying to explain the science behind something like that (in Clarke's book  it was said that it was part of evolution and natural mutation) and he does  a fairly good job.  The science in the beginning is mostly microbiology and  for a science major like me it's a bit offputting because frankly I read  this books to take a break from all the stuff they cram down my throat  every day, being reminded of it isn't the first thing on my list when I  pick a book.  However the science is handled pretty well, and consider that  the book is almost thirteen years old (if not older) I imagine if Bear went  into detail about his science, it would make the book look out of date  today, sort of like those books from the thirties that predicted by now  we'd all have flying cars and hyperspeed.  But the actual plot of the book  ain't too bad, the suspense moves along well, most of the initial  characters don't make it to the end of the book for a variety of reasons  and that can be annoying if you're just getting used to them but it's all  part of the plot.  I think the scenario (barring Clarke) is one of the more  interesting ones that have come across in SF and his marriage of hard  science and what amounts to philosophical theories along the lines of  nirvana comes across well even years later.  Some of the scenes are a bit  odd (I only wish I could pick up a girl that fast) but all in all it's a  classic book that deserves to be read and discussed.  It's thought  provoking and entertaining and you can't ask for much more than that from a  book.	2000-04-20
US	52986477	R343NVLQ1XKMRW	0151001510	782566565	The Island of the Day Before	Books	5	4	7	N	N	Interesting if confusing history lesson	I've got friends who swear by this guy and from their descriptions I got the impression that he was one of those writers who made complicated plots just for the sake of being complicated, dressed it up with erudite language  and swirled it all together into a fairly challenging mix.  Now, being that  I can cite Pynchon and Gaddis as some of my favorite writers, I figured, oh  what the heck?  Well, after getting this book for fairly cheap, I just gave  it a shot and finished it even quicker than I thought and enjoyed it more  than I thought I would.  The plot itself seems fairly simple, guy gets  shipwrecked on a ship, writers letters that reveal much about his early  life, interacts with a priest stowed away with him, debates all this  Philosophical.  Needless to say, some of the philosophy can be hard to  follow, and I can't even blame the translator for that because he seems to  capture most of the inherent poetry in Eco's language, he may not have many  &quot;read out loud&quot; passages like Pynchon does but he's certainly  more poetic than a lot of what's out there.  The historical aspect is  interesting, he doesn't really shed anymore light on the time than other  writers and his characters don't seem to be more than mouthpieces for the  sometimes witty arguments (my favorite remains when Roberto and the priest  debate whether the earth revolves around the sun or the other way around)  that pepper the book.  Of course my complaints would be that not much  really happens and so readers not used to almost nonexistent plot  devlopement might be turned off, as I said before the characters are a bit  flat and frankly maybe I'm too dense but I really can't see the point of  what Eco is getting at.  He doesn't seem to be parodying historical novels  (like John Barth did with the Sot-Weed Factor) and he doesn't seem to be  mocking the times and, well, like I said, maybe I'm just too dense.  Oh  well.  It's a more accessible novel than his other works and readers  wanting to see what he's all about might want to start here just to get a  taste of what he's capable of.  But I highly doubt this is his best work.  Time will tell though.ing to see what he's all about might want to start here just to get a  taste of what he's capable of.  But I highly doubt this is his best work.   Time will tell though.	2000-04-17
US	52986477	R1VOCLROLYX7AB	0812555171	647047632	Expiration Date	Books	5	11	13	N	N	The long and winding road	I love Tim Powers but I was initially hesitant about this book, mostly because of its length and the fact that I had heard several mixed reviews about it, generally a new Tim Powers book is a cause for celebration of his  writing genius.  This time folks seemed unsure.  I can see why, this is his  longest book by this point as far as I know (Earthquake Weather, the  sequel, might be longer, I can't remember, not having it) and I think his  typical ultracomplicated plotting can wear thin over the course of five  hundred pages when maybe four hundred isn't so bad.  But with a premise  like this I just couldn't resist: Los Angeles in the present day (1995) is  home to ghosts and ghost hunters and people addicted to ghosts and  basically the plot centers around a boy who has accidentally inhaled the  last breath of Thomas Edison and now everyone is looking for him because  Edison was such a powerful figure in life that his ghost hasn't diminished  a bit.  The twists and turns of the plot are left for the reader to  discover but rest assured this is a book that commands patience.  For those  who like instant thrills, there are those here, Powers still has his  ability with words and he strings along a bunch of cool moments together  enough time to make this into a near page turner.  But it's not totally  addictive as his other books are, you finish it because you want to know  what's going to happen and he has you really interested but it's not  &quot;bring your flashlight under the pillow to read it after bedtime&quot;  material.  Indeed, this is probably not for the Tim Powers novice, those  would probably be better off cutting their teeth on the Anubis Gates or  Last Call (both highly recommended) but when they're done with those and  want more they should come here for more of his utterly unique take on  fantasy.  No elves and forests here, this is urban fantasy.	2000-04-11
US	52986477	R3MCS5GB1MZBSX	1857231384	772866315	Consider Phlebas	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Intriging yet downbeat	If you're not used to British writers (or at least writing on that side of the Atlantic, I believe Banks is actually Scottish) then here's a quick crash course.  They're depressing.  Not like &quot;On the Beach&quot; style  depressing but definitely downbeat and somber.  While American writers  normally focused on the grand possibilities of space and conquering the  enemy and tried to get you caught up in the glory and joy of the unknown,  British writers tend to conjure up images of walking down grey streets on a  cold day, wrapping your coat tighter around yourself for warmth as you  finish your working class job and head back to your simple home.  Yeah,  even the SF books are like that.  There's a reason why Brian Aldiss'  Helliconia books begin in the Spring and end in the Winter. But we're here  to discuss the excellent Iain Banks.  This book here is one of his typical  genre SF efforts (you can tell by the &quot;M&quot; middle initial) but  that doesn't mean he slacks off because it's not one of his  &quot;literary&quot; books (and I think a writer like Banks proves that SF  can be literature) which means it's like nothing you'll be ready for.  Horza is a Changer, which means he can basically look like anything, he's  part of a dying race that's allied itself with the Idrians, a race based on  religion and war that is at war with the Culture, a race of humans based on  machines and perfection and tailoring.  While Horza seems sometimes  obsessed in his blanket condemnation of all things Culture, even he manages  to admit that he's not much different from them.  The book deals with his  trying to find a Mind, the sentient portion of a spacecraft.  Along the way  he picks up a ship full of space pirates and things start to move.  I like  the relationship between Yalson and Horza, it's shown rather tenderly  considering how intense both of them are, it's not hot sweaty lovemaking  all the time.  Sort of nice for once.  But needless to say, the ending is  almost nihlistic (make sure you read the appendix!) and if you're expecting  happy wonderful things to occur, well look at it this way, he defies  expectations at least.  You expect everyone to make it, right?  Because  that's how it normally works, right?  Uh-uh.  Not here.  In any event, this  isn't his best work but one of his more accessible pieces (as compared to  the Bridge or Feersum Endjinn) and well worth your while to track down and  introduce yourself to his brilliance and perhaps the rest of our British  cousins.  There's some good stuff on the other side of the ocean.nihlistic (make sure you read the appendix!) and if you're expecting  happy wonderful things to occur, well look at it this way, he defies  expectations at least.  You expect everyone to make it, right?  Because  that's how it normally works, right?  Uh-uh.  Not here.  In any event, this  isn't his best work but one of his more accessible pieces (as compared to  the Bridge or Feersum Endjinn) and well worth your while to track down and  introduce yourself to his brilliance and perhaps the rest of our British  cousins.  There's some good stuff on the other side of the ocean.	2000-03-31
US	52986477	R28WFXHWBM27XC	0553258397	453821367	Heart of the Comet (A Bantam Spectra Book)	Books	5	7	9	N	N	Solid work from two greats	Separate these two guys are awesome and if you haven't tried anything by them yet (Benford's Timescape and Galactic Center series and Brin's Uplift series) you owe it to yourself to give them a decent shot if this book at  all interested you.  Their styles mix quite well, Benford is normally the  more straightforward of the two and I think it's his influence that keeps  the novel from getting as selfconsciously complicated as the Uplift books  tended to get (hey, I love 'em too, but don't tell me that all of them at  some point had you scratching your head and going &quot;What's going  on?&quot;).  Still, it's far too long and by the end the twists aren't as  shocking as they were in the beginning, you sort of keep plugging along  because you want to see what's going to happen.  But that's the minor bad  points, there's plenty of good points.  For one, the scenario is awesome,  Halley's comet is coming back into the solar system and a team of colonists  are on there attempting to live there.  And of course everything goes  splendidly and people live in perfect harmony because everyone got it right  the first time before they sent these folks out.  Ha, ha, that's funny,  right.  Not only is there conflict between the genetically tweaked  &quot;Percells&quot; and the nonmodified &quot;Orthos&quot; Earth itself is  in turmoil and the wacky planet's decisions often directly affect the poor  cometfolk.  If that's not bad enough, Halley's inhabited and the colonists  have to figure out how to live with a bunch of aliens that see them as  midnight snacks.  Plus there's romance!  And riots!  And philosophy!  And  science!  And . . . you get the idea.  This book has something for everyone  and that might be its biggest fault and why it's so danged long, it's not  sure whether it wants to be the hard science Alien, or the hard science  Tower of Glass or the hard science {insert famed novel/movie here} the book  gets a tad schizo after a while, they go right through one genre cliche and  tear it to pieces before just moving right onto the next one.  Entertaining?  Heck, yeah.  But tiring after a while?  Oh yeah.  On the  plus side the characters are well drawn if a bit flat and singleminded at  times, everyone has their own little personal obsessions but then you'd  probably have to be a bit obsessed in the first place to want to go riding  a comet for eighty years.  A good example of the &quot;thinking man's  SF&quot; and a great alternative to the derivative stuff that often  clutters the marketplace.  I don't think I'd want to see a sequel to this  book (the ending wraps things up nicely) but I wouldn't mind seeing these  two pros work together again.cliche and  tear it to pieces before just moving right onto the next one.   Entertaining?  Heck, yeah.  But tiring after a while?  Oh yeah.  On the  plus side the characters are well drawn if a bit flat and singleminded at  times, everyone has their own little personal obsessions but then you'd  probably have to be a bit obsessed in the first place to want to go riding  a comet for eighty years.  A good example of the &quot;thinking man's  SF&quot; and a great alternative to the derivative stuff that often  clutters the marketplace.  I don't think I'd want to see a sequel to this  book (the ending wraps things up nicely) but I wouldn't mind seeing these  two pros work together again.	2000-03-21
US	52986477	R2TAR74SU1EXA9	0345347862	145668397	The Sheep Look Up	Books	5	101	108	N	N	Lost classic	Publishers have shown some intelligence by keeping both Stand on Zanzibar and The Shockwave Rider still in print but still show odd lapses of judgement by keeping this book relegated to used book stores instead of  reissuing it for all to read.  This is definitely better than Shockwave  Rider, and more focused than Zanzibar (though not better).  It is probably  one of the grimmer books to emerge from any genre, I thought On the Beach  was depressing, this is even more so.  Brunner takes threads and weaves  them together to show you a world where the ecology is falling apart, the  people who have the money to fix it also have the money to keep themselves  above it while the normal people just live with it and can't think that  anything will be better.  There is a plot, per se, involved with  environmental leader Austin Train and his emergence from hiding but mostly  the novel is concerned with showing the slow inexorable decline of the  world into a polluted and chaotic mess.  If you keep reading it looking for  some last minute save, some ray of hope, you might as well stop reading  because that isn't the point.  Brunner isn't showing us how to get out of  it (other than an ironic comment made by a character at the very end) but  showing us what he thought would happen if we didn't change things.  Giving  it a specific date dilutes the impact of the book but his message is still  as strong as ever and even though we've taken steps to prevent that future,  there's still a way to go.  Brunner isn't with us anymore and his voice is  surely missed, moreso when we read about an oil spill or a forest being cut  down for development.  Reading his books keeps that voice alive today.	2000-03-10
US	52986477	R1SLQSNRIV22CA	0688127576	805718047	Eternal Light	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Hypercomplicated and awesome	Criminally out of print, this was the book that catapulted McAuley into the science fiction spotlight, I believe this was preceded by two books (making this the third of a trilogy) that were entertaining but mediocre  genre SF and indeed there are several references to events that I can only  assume happened in previous books but you really don't notice.  Just start  reading and dive in.  Attempting to describe the plot is probably pointless  because there are so many threads and details, needless to say it deals  with the center of the galaxy and god-like intelligences and the people who  want to use that sort of stuff for their own benefits.  And science.  Lots  of it.  These people all do weird things that seem to defy science and  McAuley has no problem making it all seem probable.  Heck his science seems  to make sense so I guess he knows what he's talking about.  Go figure.  Basically you just let yourself get carried along, the characters are  fairly memorable (if a tad flat at points) and frankly he drags out the  ending just a little bit, the book should have ended about fifty pages  before it actually does but he needs to wrap it up somehow I guess.  Alas,  it's close to the peaks already set by hypercomplicated science freaks Dan  Simmons (read Hyperion!  Now!) and Peter Hamilton but their books hang  together a little better and don't depend as much on the visceral rush of  reading the book.  Nevertheless this was a major leap for McAuley and one  of the best SF books of the decade easily.  You won't be sorry for tracking  this one down.	2000-03-01
US	52986477	RVP9XCKPFKO1G	0345371976	287424490	The World at the End of Time	Books	5	16	19	N	N	Science back in science fiction	A fairly decent book that is now out of print, this has to have some of the wilder science fiction ideas that I've seen in a novel thus far that are backed with actual science as opposed to pseudo-scientific babble.  More ambitious than Ringworld, hey, anyone can make a giant metal doughnut,  how about moving an entire solar system around and describing what the  relativistic effects are going to do to the inhabitants?  All right maybe  it isn't especially innovative but it's darn entertaining.  Basically  there's an omniscient intelligence out there goofing around and basically  causing most of the plot catalysts in the book.  The actual plot concerns a  group of colonists, especially Viktor (who is fairly cool and not all that  flat a character, except for his rather disturbing obsession with an older  woman, but he does get better by the end) who is there for the entire book  and the effects that Wan-To (the intelligence) has on them.  The funny part  of this book is that the groups never meet each other, not to disappoint  anybody who wants to read the book but if you're expecting some kind of  long philosophical discussion between Wan-To and Viktor get that thought  out of your head because it never happens.  If you want something similar  go read &quot;Sailing Bright Eternity&quot; by Gregory Benford which has a  conversation along those lines.  But you really don't miss it, Pohl gives  us enough of a meaty plot to sink our teeth into and his extrapolations are  fairly interesting.  The only other gripe I have is that the book left an  angle open for a sequel by being totally open ended but I can't see Mr Pohl  resolving the ending in more than fifty pages.  Maybe a short story is in  the works for one day to tie up the loose ends?  Maybe?  All in all, highly  entertaining thought provoking stuff for the scientist in you.	2000-03-01
US	52986477	RX3IQA8NOM9AP	0425153193	763159561	Night Relics	Books	5	11	11	N	N	Spooky	This is unlike most of the stuff that Blaylock has written already so if you're expecting the same old stories, get ready for something a bit different.  He tackles ghost stories this time out and while the themes are  nearly the same as always, basically normal everyday people trying to cope  with the extraordinary (or just plain weird) and as usual set in  California.  But it gets waaayy different from there, for the first time  things are really frightening, this is the darkest book he might have ever  written.  And his characters feel more real for once, mostly gone are the  likable but quirky folks who populate his other books, here everyone is  just like you and me, they have their flaws and benefits just the same as  anyone else.  And I don't think he's ever written a character as odious as  Pomeroy, he's quite the convincing psychopath.  As for the ghost part, well  that's not all that clear but then it's a ghost story it's not supposed to  make perfect sense.  What counts here is the atmosphere and the pages are  dripping with wind and dark and the nighttime and all the horrors that it  brings.  Not really scary but certainly gets you into the novel and helps  you live in the character's world.  In essence this is the most  &quot;mature&quot; book he's ever done, tackling more serious subjects of  relationships (both starting and ending them), abnormal psyches, sexuality,  all the good stuff that's in the world the rest of us live in.  In short  this is the book that we may not have all been waiting for, but knew he was  capable of doing all the same and I for one am not complaining.	2000-02-21
US	52986477	R290RFHX95OEC2	0441004903	882356132	All The Bells on Earth	Books	5	10	12	N	N	More mundane yet still fascinating	To me this one marks a small yet noticable difference between the earlier &quot;classic&quot; Blaylock (Paper Grail, Last Coin) and the rest of his stuff.  The elements are all here, the regular people going about their  lives in a quirky fashion, the fingers of evil magic cloaked in mundanity  at the edges of everyone's awareness, it's all here.  Something is just . .  . different.  I don't know what.  There seems to be more of an emphasis on  the horror aspects of the plot, it's more gruesome than many of his other  books had been and a bit more downbeat as well.  Walt is a typical Blaylock  character, but he lacks just a tiny bit of the quirky charm that makes the  others so memorable, you stand up and cheer for him through the story but  more because you want the good guys to win.  Blaylock has to stop the daffy  older relatives thing though, it's getting a bit repetitive, this is the  third book in a row I've read that features a weird uncle of some sort who  is either an inventor or a dreamer or something else (Uncle Arthur in the  Last Coin was by far the most original, though Uncle Roy from the Paper  Grail was more enjoyable).  The &quot;regular life&quot; stuff seems a bit  more forced now, Maggie Biggs has to be the most annoying character I've  encountered in a long time (which might be the point) and the rest of the  stuff has a been there, done that feeling (except for the addition of the  kids, which is handled realistically and face it, they're just darn cute).  That said, Blaylock figured out how to make a compromise between poetic  prose and a tight plotting, this is indeed a page turner, with brief short  chapters advancing the plot almost constantly, there may be a lot of  annoying subplots but they shift back and forth so quick that by the time  it comes back around again you're almost looking forward to it.  His prose  is as good as ever and the book is overall really well crafted, I'm not  ashamed to say that I finished it in a manner of hours and was quite  satisified with the package I got.  Yes, it's not &quot;classic&quot;  Blaylock and I can't agree with some of the changes he's made in his style  but it shows him attempting to do some stuff that's slightly different and  if at first you don't succeed perfectly, we all know he'll try again.  And  I know I'll give him a chance.s and was quite  satisified with the package I got.  Yes, it's not &quot;classic&quot;  Blaylock and I can't agree with some of the changes he's made in his style  but it shows him attempting to do some stuff that's slightly different and  if at first you don't succeed perfectly, we all know he'll try again.  And  I know I'll give him a chance.	2000-02-15
US	52986477	R1OUCBN5DXH66N	0441651275	838329952	Paper Grail	Books	5	8	9	N	N	Makes you want to move to California	I've known people who have lived in California and they never said it was anything like this.  Perhaps if it was more like Blaylock's books and less like reality (that being earthquakes and mudslides and the constant feeling  that the entire state is going to fall into the ocean . . . but darn isn't  the weather nice?) I'd want to actually move there.  In any event, in the  hands of Blaylock the state and the entire coast becomes a magical place  full of mystery and mundanity at the same time.  Oddball characters strive  for a powerful piece of paper while at the same time trying to pay their  rent and get a date.  All the people in this book are wonderfully strange  (if they're the good guys) or bizarrely strange (if they're evil) but it  gives the book a certain angle that very few of today have, the constant  contrast between what's normal and what's magical and the thin line that  separates them is great.  It's fantasy that can exist without elves and  trolls and stuff and still be epic and be finished in a concise three  hundred pages without an entire two thousand year history.  It's about real  people and real magic and the things that it can make you do.  Both good  and bad.  Simply put, it's for people who want to be entertained while at  the same time immerse themselves in a place that's not all that different  from where they might live.  No matter how normal they're life might seem.	2000-02-10
US	52986477	RS7SXUOZXJB1Q	0441470750	607093737	The Last Coin	Books	5	16	17	N	N	Great fun	This has to be some of the most fun I've had reading a fantasy novel in a long time.  Like his peer Tim Powers, Blaylock is more concerned with taking bizarre events and contrasting them with his equally bizarre yet  oddly lovable cast, with everything taking place against a backdrop of  complete normality.  He lacks some of the lyrical prowess of Powers (who is  highly recommended for anyone who likes Blaylock) but easily makes up for  it with memorable characters, Andrew had to be one of the more strikingly  defined people to come out of fiction in the last ten years and he'll make  you laugh at him and root for me all at the same time, perhaps because we  can all identify with him just a little.  And Pennyman is a totally  ruthless villain, completely charming but with a black heart indeed.  The  book centers mostly around the bumbling dance between Pennyman and Andrew,  who isn't quite sure until nearly the end just what he's going up against  or what the stakes really are, but the supporting cast is equally brilliant  and all loopy in a fun way.  This is a great introduction to the nutty  world of Blaylock and almost certain enjoyment for anyone tired of the  fantasy worlds of elves and multi-volume world shattering quests.	2000-02-02
US	52986477	R1W35VOL2ZVZWU	0425040437	372334429	Make Room! Make Room!	Books	5	29	38	N	N	Elbow room please	Harry Harrison is normally a funny writer so reading this book from him was a bit of a shock.  It's not funny at all and rather depressing actually, the ending isn't all that happy and nothing has changed, society  keeps plugging along on the same path to oblivion, people have lived and  died and in the end it's all the same.  No wonder why it was taken out of  print.  But by the same token, it'll be one of the best books you've ever  read.  For those who watch movies, the film Soylent Green was based on this  but the main point of that movie doesn't even come into play here.  If  anything it's a love story disguised as a mystery story, showing how people  still try to live and love with too many people crammed into too many  creaking, cold and leaky apartment buildings, the measures the police have  to do to survive along with everyone and it submerges you completely in  this world that makes you glad that you can go outside and not have to  withstand the crush of millions of people.  One of the best books in this  line of reasoning, a very similar and probably better examination of this  (though not by much) would be Thomas Disch's 334 and for a wider look at  the entire planet with too many people try John Brunner's Stand on  Zanzibar.  All three form some of the keystone books of thought on the  matter of overpopulation in fiction and if you want to do even more  exploring, look for The World Inside by Robert Silverberg, which I haven't  read but I think deals with the same issues.  Make room for it on your  shelf today.	2000-01-27
US	52986477	RJ53RYKHAL9FL	0446340561	600480793	Hawksbill Station	Books	5	12	12	N	N	More straightforward but still good	Out of all the Silverberg books (or the classic ones at least) this has to be the most direct and least complex out of all of them.  The plot is fairly simple, a rigid Earth government sentenced all its dissidents to a  station billions of years in the past and with the way technolongy is, they  can only move time in one direction, that being back.  So they're all stuck  there.  The leader of the camp, Barrett, isn't the first one there but has  been there the longest but recently was crippled, making him doubt his  continued usefulness.  The character of Barrett is fleshed out remarkably  well, showing both how such a man became a political activist and how he  holds up against the pressure of being stranded forever.  Silverberg also  showz us everyone else in the camp, and shows how they didn't take the  pressure so well.  If Silverberg had just stuck with the stories on  Hawksbill Station then the book would be little more than highly  entertaining genre SF but because of his deep delving into the characters  he manages to make several pointed political comments in general that  aren't the least bit dated, which is the point.  Definitely lacks some of  the intensity of his later works, as well as some emotional involvement but  still stands head and shoulders above a lot of what is out there today.	2000-01-27
US	52986477	R3ZC4I5SFM6XW	0446345091	361953490	Tower of Glass	Books	5	7	7	N	N	UAG UAA UGG	Now this is interesting, Silverberg manages to not only make a comment on the slim distinction between created and born life but also an examination of egomania at the same time.  The story is thus: the millionaire Krug has  one dream and that's to make contact with a race from another star.  When  he gets word that signals are being received from another star, he throws  all of his resources into creating a giant glass tower in the middle of the  Arctic to make contact with the presumed beings.  This of course takes a  rather determined personality and Krug goes at his goal almost to the  exclusion of all else.  Silverberg gets you inside the head of this at  times obsessed man and you may not sympathize with this man but you  certainly get to know him.  You also get a view of the effect this has on  the others around him, and a view of the world as well, which Krug has gone  a long way to shaping.  You see, Krug has made the first  &quot;androids&quot;, living and thinking beings that grow out of tanks and  do most of the work on his tower as well as other uses all around the  world.  The androids wants a better place in society.  However they also  worship Krug as a god and pay homage to him in secret shrines.  So the  tension between human and androids and even between other androids flails  around the totally oblivious Krug while the tower goes up and up and up.  Sound complicated?  It can be but the varied tones and the very three  dimensional characters add up to a wealth of great moments and an overall  plot that's hard to put down.  It may not be the most focused book  Silverberg ever did and it suffers a bit from the sheer diversity as he  tries to tackle a lot of things at once but it all comes out well (for  Silverberg at least, the book is great, the characters don't make out as  well) and this is definitely a book to be searched for if you can and  snatched up whenever you find it.  When I first found it about two years  ago I could hardly believe my luck and upon reading it now it was money  well spent.  They just don't make books like this these days.  Get it back  into print!luck and upon reading it now it was money  well spent.  They just don't make books like this these days.  Get it back  into print!	2000-01-27
US	52986477	R1OTHD0JU5D1MY	0899683304	703326855	A Case of Conscience	Books	5	25	28	N	N	Food for thought	I'm not all that deeply religious and this book made me think about this quite a bit.  This book isn't for fans of action oriented SF, if you find yourself reading the Foundation books by Isaac Asimov over and over again  this is probably more your speed, like those books (and most books by  Asimov) there's little action (most of it being off stage anyway) and the  plot mostly centers around people standing arguing over the central point.  Here the point is whether we can grant the existence of original sin to a  race of creatures that has no concept of faith or belief and who exist  basically by reason alone.  The priest protagonist has to worry about this  and in the beginning you wonder what his problem is but Blish manages to  snag you in if you're willing and unravel everything.  His tone is measured  and calm and he takes his time laying everything out and even if you go in  with a certain point of view, he may not change your mind but he'll at  least give you cause to stop and think for a moment about your beliefs,  whether you're religious or an athiest.  Desersedly a winner of the Hugo  award a long time ago (this was published in the late fifties I think)  these days it's no longer in print for whatever reason which is a shame  because in these days of flashy adventure book, we need more novels based  on solid ideas that take those ideas to logical ends and make the reader  think along the way.  If you thought all that James Blish did was those  Star Trek books, stop here and see how much better he can be.	2000-01-27
US	52986477	R2QTU5OAT65D60	0446340561	600480793	Hawksbill Station	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Ashes to ashes	One of the more &quot;conventional&quot; science fiction novels that came out of Silverberg's most fruitful period, Hawksbill Station is still pretty much a classic, mostly for his vivid imagination and deep streak of humanity that colors all of his best work.  In this novel, a brutal yet  humane US government has taken any dissidents they find too dangerous to be  left around and sent them back to Hawksbill Station, a billion years in the  past, and unable to get back to the future because time travel apparently  works only one way.  The prisoners are led by Barrett, who has been there  the longest (though he's not the first, the others have all since died from  old age) and he presides over a lot of men who are without hope, without  women (that seems to bother them a lot) and for the most part going  absolutely crazy trying to deal with the fact that everything they have  ever known is forever lost to them, friends, family, everything.  To add to  this, Barrett has recently had his foot crushed in a rockslide and this  once proud strong man is forced to hobble around like the weakest cripple.   Into all of this comes a new stranger, one who seems to hide a secret that  could change them all.  Meaty stuff and Silverberg tells it with such ease  that the plot seems effortless and ends after the perfect length of time,  nothing feels rushed or slowed and the pace never slackens.  Along the way  Silverberg fills in the life of Barrett with numerous flashbacks and the  cutting between his past life and his current life create a great if  artificial kind of suspense even if you do know what's going to happen, it  still makes your heart quiver.  And through these, as with all Silverberg's  best work, we learn about what makes Barrett the man tick, what made him  join the revolutionaries, what made him think he could change the world and  how it helps him cope a billion years before everything.  Unfortunately  totally out of print these days, it's a book well worth trying to find in a  used book store, along with all of his books from this period, not a sequel  in the lot and they're all finely honed exmainations of science fiction.   If any of this plot sounds familar to you it's probably because they've all  become staples of science fiction plots, imitated by hundred of writers in  an attempt to better the master, while some are inspired to seek out new  pathways to explore.  And that's probably the best praise a writer can get.	1999-12-10
US	52986477	R3KNWPCXL49RDA	0446340618	510895886	Time of Changes	Books	5	18	19	N	N	I me mine	Gee, look at this another out of print and utterly awesome Robert Silverberg book, how the author himself can let all these great books of his go out of print is totally beyond me, sometimes I think that the chance  that a book will stay in print is inversely proportional to how good it is  (check out my comments on the Helliconia books by Aldiss for more of those  rants).  Needless to say this one was awarded either the Hugo or Nebula or  both and it darn well deserved it (and I think there was some stiff  competition that year).  Unlike the shift at the time toward &quot;hard  science fiction&quot; (Ringworld had just come out the year before and  changed all the rules about scientific accuracy), Silverberg fills his  novel more with ideas and feelings, using the medium to ultimately make  comments that can apply to us and showing us the necessity to know yourself  so you can know others.  In a nutshell, the book details the story of a man  named Kinnall who lives on a planet where selfhood is totally abolished,  everyone talks in the third person (&quot;one this and one that&quot;) and  some talk totally in the passive voice and basically people close off to  one another completely.  Into this world comes an Earthman with a drug that  can break down the barriers between people and let you enter into their  minds and upon tasting it, Kinnall embarks on a quest to let his world know  about love and knowing each other.  The book is told in devastatingly  searing prose, and Kinnall's observations are always poignant, you can feel  his conviction for his cause and get a feel for the emotional barreness of  a world where the words &quot;I love you&quot; are a total abomination.  While not as intense as Dying Inside, this one further served to cement  Silverberg's reputation as one of the best authors of the seventies.  Probably one of the greatest science fiction novels of all time, if only  for its complete examination of a society where self baring is a crime, it  deserves to be read even today and its message taken to heart.  If you  don't know yourself, you can never know anyone else.  Who says reading  never teaches you anything important?deserves to be read even today and its message taken to heart.  If you  don't know yourself, you can never know anyone else.  Who says reading  never teaches you anything important?	1999-12-08
US	52986477	R1LZSMR0PGODIL	0553240188	835439981	Dying Inside	Books	5	35	39	N	N	Out of print?  WHY?	Bear with me briefly while I go on a bit of a rant (part one of it at least) here, this book here represents only a very small part of what may be one of the greatest single spurts of output science fiction or the  literary world has ever known.  You see, during the seventies, Mr  Silverberg came up with no less than thirteen masterworks of science  fiction, not a sequel or connected book in the lot, each one a completely  unique and searing study of people and the possibilities of science fiction  as a whole.  Once I heard about these, I knew that I had to get as many as  I could and so I go to find them and lo and behold, how many do I find in  print.  Exactly none gentle reader.  None at all, and the horrifying part  is that at least two of these are Hugo winners (Time of Changes and the  book I'll be reviewing in a moment).  Why is this?  What is this? Oh well,  more on that as I chug along with the four classic period books that I own.  This is the first one I read here, Dying Inside in case you've forgotten  and it simply made my mouth drop open.  The story is one that we're partly  familiar with, man has great powers, uses them in a silly fashion and then  realizes that he's losing them.  Flowers for Algernon is another gem on  this theme but in a lot of ways David Selig is even more of an innocent  than poor Charley.  No matter how many women he beds, no matter how many  minds he reads and lives he lives vicariously, no matter how much he can  shield himself with his armor of cynicism, inside is a man crying for the  release of his power so he can be a normal man and yet he's desperately  afraid of what will happen to him if he loses it because it has defined him  and made him who is his entire life, he fears that instead of becoming a  normal man, he will become even less than the rest of us.  And Silverberg  portrays this all and lets us into the head of this tormented man with  pointed, searing prose, with a focus and poetry that is rarely seen in his  work and an intensity that is rarely seen anywhere.  You may not like David  Selig and you may not agree with him but you will know him more intimately  than almost anyone else by the time you close the pages on this all too  brief book.  The thing that to me is the most poignant is the closing to  the book (hint: stop reading if you don't want an even vague idea of how it  ends) with David having lost his powers and considering his place in the  world, he has to start all over again, and a lesser writer would have gone  the easy way and given us the hint of a new love in his life, or some ray  of hope.  But David has to start over and just like the rest of us, he's  unsure and cautiously hopeful but unsure nonetheless.  In the end he's more  like the rest of us, both before and after, than either him or everyone  else would care to admit.ork and an intensity that is rarely seen anywhere.  You may not like David  Selig and you may not agree with him but you will know him more intimately  than almost anyone else by the time you close the pages on this all too  brief book.  The thing that to me is the most poignant is the closing to  the book (hint: stop reading if you don't want an even vague idea of how it  ends) with David having lost his powers and considering his place in the  world, he has to start all over again, and a lesser writer would have gone  the easy way and given us the hint of a new love in his life, or some ray  of hope.  But David has to start over and just like the rest of us, he's  unsure and cautiously hopeful but unsure nonetheless.  In the end he's more  like the rest of us, both before and after, than either him or everyone  else would care to admit.	1999-12-03
US	52986477	R152MHSQY03U2O	0684842696	553694758	Underworld	Books	5	9	13	N	N	Worth the wait	Actually that comment won't apply to anyone but me.  You see, when I was a bit of a younger man and this book came out, I immediately went out and bought it, having never really read Delillo but just having a feeling that  THIS was a book to read, I had a recently come off the natural literary  high that only greats like Pynchon and Gaddis can give you and I had an  idea that this book could attempt those heights.  So I went and got it and  then . . . other matters occupied me, other books called for my attention,  and that large eight hundred page monster just sat there patiently, waiting  for me.  And then the day came, about a month ago, when I couldn't wait any  longer and I must say I've rarely torn through a book so quickly in my  life, I'd sit there and honestly debate studying for my upcoming barrages  of test or &quot;just reading one more chapter&quot;.  The opening prologue  is utterly brilliant in the juxtaposition of the boy who sneaks in the  stadium and the famous men throwing up on each other and the pace and tone  never slacken.  Unlike Pynchon, Delillo is far more emotional and his  characters are people and not just devices to further the plot.  The prose  glistens and you'll find yourself reading over a particularly choice  paragraph to embed some marvelous phrasing in your head and each page seems  to have another to add to the collection.  And the detail, ah, the details!  He casts his eye over almost every aspect of US life during the fifty  years of the Cold War and you're there, seeing it through the lives of  everyone from the top down, from the people who sit on top of the garbage  heaps to the ones who sift through it at the base.  With all the hype and  praise this book got, I didn't think it could at all surpass my  expectations but it did, it ranks as my choice for one of the best books of  the decade and simply demands your attention.  Granted, it's a large  difficult book, eight hundred pages remember and requires a good chunk of  your time and focus, but careful reading rewards endlessly, his ear for  dialogue has never been better and you'll feel like he's been listening to  the people talking outside your house.  So it's not for everyone but that  doesn't mean you should leave it alone.  If you see it snap it up, read it,  and pass it on to all your friends.  This book proves to me that literature  in the tradition of the aforementioned Pynchon and Gaddis and even the  older heroes Joyce and Faulkner is alive and kicking in the hands of  authors like Delillo.our time and focus, but careful reading rewards endlessly, his ear for  dialogue has never been better and you'll feel like he's been listening to  the people talking outside your house.  So it's not for everyone but that  doesn't mean you should leave it alone.  If you see it snap it up, read it,  and pass it on to all your friends.  This book proves to me that literature  in the tradition of the aforementioned Pynchon and Gaddis and even the  older heroes Joyce and Faulkner is alive and kicking in the hands of  authors like Delillo.	1999-12-01
US	52986477	R2YAOSVJIYEQV	0553573314	199085075	The Diamond Age	Books	5	8	10	N	N	Gettin' there, Neil	After my somewhat mixed review of Snow Crash I figured that I might as well give the guy another shot.  And you know what, he got a bit better.  This book shares most of the same flaws that Snow Crash had, but they  aren't as noticeable, one thing that seems to go a long way is that the  author doesn't seem as self consciously smug as that book, Snow Crash  seemed at times to be a little kid showing off and showing you what a neat  thing he had made, while here things are much more relaxed.  I actually  care about the characters here, they aren't as cardboard as the previous  book and some of them actually elicit more than one emotion from me and  that's a good thing.  The concept itself is fairly spiffy, the idea of the  Primer is interesting and his vision of the future, while not startingly  original, is entertaining enough and it serves his plot pretty well.  Of  course he still seems to think that just having some good concepts means  that a plot will just fall right into place automatically and he has yet to  figure out by this point that it doesn't work that way and so most of the  time you can follow along fairly well, at least the plot isn't all that  convoluted but there are times when you'll be scratching your head  wondering what part of his body he's pulling these twists from, so many  come from left field that you start to wonder after a bit.  The ending  still stinks, he hasn't gotten any better with that, I once again closed  one of his books thinking &quot;That's it?&quot; and leaving it at that,  though as someone else commented, the images that he leaves in your head  are memorable.  It's just after five hundred pages I want more than a  pretty picture.  In any event, if you loved Snow Crash you've already read  this and probably are just reading this review to see what the rest of the  masses thought about this book.  It's not so bad, after Snow Crash I was  ready to hate it but it grew on me, the adventures of Princess Nell and  company can be darn fun and the flaws that I've mentioned really aren't any  different from any other &quot;cyberpunk&quot; book that I've read thus  far.  So if Snow Crash turned you off you might want to give him another  chance.  Hey, people can get better.  It's how the world works.arn fun and the flaws that I've mentioned really aren't any  different from any other &quot;cyberpunk&quot; book that I've read thus  far.  So if Snow Crash turned you off you might want to give him another  chance.  Hey, people can get better.  It's how the world works.	1999-11-05
US	52986477	R38F3318DHT64F	0385240864	590368304	Giles Goat-Boy (The Anchor Literary Library)	Books	5	26	34	N	N	Funny but dense	This was my first exposure to Barth but based on this it certainly won't be my last.  I wasn't sure exactly what to expect, but what I can understand I find myself liking quite a bit.  For those who have no idea  about this book, it's basically the &quot;quest&quot; of Giles to reprogram  the evil WESAC computer that is messing with the New Tammany College campus  and even that brief blurb isn't enough to give this book ample justice.  The plot is mostly straightforward, to me at least but the layers of satire  that wrap around everything give the book greater depth, just when you  think you've got it pegged as one thing, Barth gives a sly clue and it all  shifts.  Is it merely a big joke on the Cold War, or a comment on our  culture in general.  Or neither.  The novel encompasses religion, sex,  culture, war, just about everything you can think of and the humor is dark  and bitter and at the same time hilariously funny, Giles is the perfect  narrator and his observations are both hugely innocent and slyly  subversive.  The ultimate quest of stopping the computer becomes  unimportant when you consider the events that it takes to get there and if  there's any book with a more real yet wildly fantastic set of characters, I  haven't read it, just when you think that he's treating them all as one big  joke, a stray comment or an action reminds you that these are supposed to  be real characters.  As you can probably tell, this is a novel that you  can't go in with any preconceptions, and if you do a lot of it will  probably be lost on you.  It's a massively dense read and took me almost  two months (not because it was difficult, that weird time thing you see)  but never once did I think of not finishing it.  Definitely worth the time  put into it and you can get the time, don't hesitate!	1999-10-18
US	52986477	R3ORRES1LKNJK6	0061057088	340285120	Voyage	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Better than I thought	I came to know Baxter's writing through his more SF type books such as Ring and the Time Ships and in those respects he seemed a natural successor to HG Wells and the others who used ideas to drive their novels.  And then  I see this book.  The first thing that tipped me off is that there's no  mention of his other SF books in any of the author bios, even though some  of them have won awards and stuff and been generally acclaimed, in fact if  you didn't see the listing of his novels in the front of the book you'd  think that this was his first novel.  So, geez, I thought to myself, a SF  writer trying to play down his science fiction past in order to make  himself more appealing to the mainstream, nothing I hadn't seen before but  since I had faith in Baxter I figured I'd give the book a try.  And you  know what it's not bad, the history extrapolation are just as good as  anyone else's but the premise is good and the feelings that it ignites in  you, the actual thought of us going to Mars, if there's anything that  rekindles that desire to get there, this could be the book.  The book  focuses more on actually getting there as opposed to what we would do there  which is a small complaint, I would have at least like to see what happens  to the characters when they got back to Earth and got on with their lives,  I mean face it after going to Mars everything else is certainly downhill  from there.  That and the characters are a tad stock at times, of course  the woman is a no nonsese lady with a chip on her shoulder and the African  character is always angry and all the astronauts are &quot;just one of the  boys&quot; and you do realize this during the course of the book but really  when you take everything together it's a good effort.  It does the job  which is show how we could get to Mars and manages to be entertaining along  the way, encompassing truimph and tragedy and showing the lengths that  people are driven to realize their goals.  Baxter's next book after this  was something else along this line as well (Titan) and while I hope he gets  back to his older stuff I can make do with this for the moment, it goes  down quite easy.s  was something else along this line as well (Titan) and while I hope he gets  back to his older stuff I can make do with this for the moment, it goes  down quite easy.	1999-08-06
US	52986477	RGZ7JPSFIW16U	0553562614	445913	Snow Crash	Books	5	3	5	N	N	Overrated	I did like this book actually but if you read the reviews on the paperback edition you'd think this was the Second Coming, in fact some reviewers compared it to Pynchon, there are echoes of Pynchon in there but not enough  that I would have drawn that sort of comparsion.  But about the book  itself, it's typical cyberpunk stuff, Stephenson loves his idea of the  future and spends many pages describing it, in fact so many that you don't  notice for about a hundred pages that the plot still hasn't gone anywhere  and when it does go somewhere it does get better, but the ending is  absolute nonsense and totally anticlimatic and is it just me or does Snow  Crash never turn into the threat that everyone is talking about.  One guy  gets hit by Snow Crash and that's it.  Whee.  And then characters  themselves are a tad bland, even though I like Hiro but the scenes between  him and YT aren't all that interesting, and there's too much time devoted  to explaining Sumerian myth . . . it gets sort of boring after a bit.  But  his prose and pacing do save it from becoming a chore and I have to admit  that I didn't realize many of these faults until after I finished the book.  Go figure.  If you've devoured Gibson this is probably the next best place  to start.	1999-07-27
US	52986477	R3FNV21MKNYCGK	0886774292	673426799	Forty Thousand in Gehenna (Alliance-Union Universe)	Books	5	22	25	N	N	On par with Cyteen	If anything this is more ambitious than Cyteen, though that novel will remain the greater one because of its scope and depth, the latter of which this novel tends to lack at times, though Cherryh is still better than most  science-fiction writers.  The events of this novel are referred to in  Cyteen and that planet is still a big player during the course of events,  but Cyteen was also a big part of Downbelow Station and you didn't need to  read Cyteen to understand that one either.  What you do need to understand  is that this is one strange book, the basic plot is that colonists are sent  to Gehenna which has these strange lizards and then they're essentially  abandoned there and when people find them again this entirely odd culture  that is hard to understand has grown up to live with the lizards.  Most of  the book is devoted to explaining the way this strange culture arrives at  what it is, and that is probably the most fascinating part.  The encounters  between the scientists and the Gehennans are also classic moments and the  characters are all well defined even if because the novel takes place over  so many years they tend to pop in and out, so don't get too attached to  many of them, because they don't stick around for too long.  Overall  definitely one of her better novels and on par with both Cyteen and  Downbelow Station, it may not have the greatness of the former or the  sustained intensity of the latter but in its exploration of culture and how  it can be formed, Cherryh shows that she has few peers in the  science-fiction world.	1999-07-25
US	52986477	R66D3J6K1SCWM	0451526457	450898563	Three Soldiers (Signet Classics)	Books	5	41	44	N	N	Better than a textbook	I probably shouldn't have read this after the great and mighty USA trilogy since anything else he did only pales to that great work but this is a fine, if little known work from a great writer.  As people who have read  the USA trilogy know, Dos Passos absolutely hated WWI and everything it  stood for and here he got to take out his anger on a few targets.  While  not as focused as 1919 was, he shows his feelings with a deft touch and a  depth of feeling that was rarely seen in war novels, his characters aren't  all brilliant, the only really three dimensional one is Andrews but they  depict a cross section of American life and through their adventures he  shows what his firm belief was: that the machine of the army sucked the  spirit out of someone and turned them nearly into a automaton.  And without  focused on the gory battles, he shows the horror of the war in a way that  few writers have.  Definitely a book that needs to be looked at again and  should be ranked with The Naked and the Dead, and Red Badge of Courage  (among others).	1999-07-20
US	52986477	R22YA31H5NHER	0451522486	109904167	1919 (USA)	Books	5	30	30	N	N	Amazing what a little focus can do	The first book of this series, 42nd parallel was simply amazing in the crosscutting technique mixing it up with news clippings and stream of consciousness rantings but in this book does Dos Passos finally find his real voice in his fury at &quot;Mr Wilson's War&quot;.  His hatred for the  war crackles through every page, every sentence is filled with a fury that  can't be described, he knows the war was wrong and he knows exactly why and  with the patience of a master he sits there and points each of his ideas  out and sets it before you and in the end you don't know what to do.  The  book is more intense than anything I've read before, pages just fly past as  the character histories pile up, as the Newsreels and Camera Eyes  (definitely at their best here, as he tells his own WWI experiences) flip  past each other from one to the other with dizzying speed where you find  yourself immsered in a world which you (probably) never knew.  For once the  workers rights stuff is pushed to the side, showing up mostly toward the  end and the last fifty or so pages of the book are breathtakingly brilliant  finally hitting the climax with the prosepoem &quot;Body of an  American&quot; Dos Passos' own biography of the Unknown Soldier, standing  for every American that died for his country without ever really know what  he was dying for.  The rage and the passion here alone makes it one of the  best books of the century and a definite forgotten masterpiece, and coupled  with his lyrical prose and sense of characterization you have something  that is better than any history book, even if it makes no pretense of being  objective and makes the reader think.  Don't let this series be forgotten!	1999-07-13
US	52986477	R10IGBCBOGFY58	0451524578	902631932	The 42nd Parallel (USA)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Forgotten classic	Maybe it was because of the (intentional or not) socialist undercurrent that runs throughout the novel and even the entire series (I'm halfway through the second book as if this writing) but this is definitely a book  that deserves to be rediscovered by anyone interested in great American  literature, not enough people speak of Dos Passos' name in the same breath  as Hemingway and Fitzgerald and that has to change.  Originally when I saw  this series I figured it was just another take on early American life,  showing some scenes and making subtle statements about them, nothing all  that interesting, but boy was I wrong.  This is like nothing you've ever  read, Dos Passos keenly juxtaposes news clippings with his own views on  writing the novel (the sporadically brilliant if sometimes incoherent  &quot;Camera Eye&quot; sections) while dancing around with a cast of  characters from all walks of life, showing America at this time with all  its hopes and dreams, showing as these people strive to get what they want  and more often than not overreach and fall back farther than when they  started, only to get up and try again.  Dos Passos definitely has a poor  view of the American way and while he has great sympathy for his  characters, most of them no matter what the background turn out to be  unlucky in love and life, but it's interesting watching them try anyway.  The next best thing to experiencing the early part of the century other  than taking a time machine back there, this is something that deserves to  be read and treasured, I haven't even gone into how Dos Passos has a  lyrical way with every sentence, managing to capture the chatter and talk  of the people without being all that obvious about it, you just fall into  the rhythms and let the book carry you along.  And the next book is  supposed to be even better.  Track all three books down and read them!	1999-07-11
US	52986477	R3KPNPN2403TYN	0671695320	84858049	The Legacy of Heorot (Heorot, No 1)	Books	5	21	29	N	N	Literary action movie	This book was really entertaining but definitely not the best place to start for the works of Niven/Pournelle (I'm not sure what Barnes contributed) they seem to be slumming a little bit on the ideas here, the  Grendels are the only really new idea and the secret to their life cycle  isn't all that impressive and easily dealt with, unlike say the Moties.  The beginning scenes with them are great as the authors pour on the  suspense and horror but by the end they're just this faceless horde that  keeps coming, scary not because they're frightening but because theirs so  friggin' many of them.  In my opinion it reduces the book to little more  than an action movie romp, with the big men strapped on guns and blasting  away.  Though the strategy stuff is interesting but considering that the  Grendels are nearly mindless except for animal cunning, it's not like  they're going up against suprageniuses.  That and the characters, while  drawn enough so you can care about them a little, aren't all that deep, the  motivations for coming onto the planet aren't delved into all that deeply.  Most of them stick to one type of personality and stick to it without  change, heck if I want to read cardboard characters, I'll go get an Ayn  Rand novel (ooh, that's one is asking for it, maybe Amazon will delete it  to avoid contraversy).  But they are sympathetic at least even if everyone  seems to think about sex, with or without making babies.  Am I being harsh  on this book . . . well considering how much better the team has done  before, it's probably warranted but at the same time this isn't bad, it's  just not as idea driven as the other novel, you sort of check your brains  at the door, sit back, relax and have a little fun.  It's not even that  long.  So go try the others first and come to this to see what Niven and  Pournelle are like on auto-pilot and you'll see what I mean.	1999-07-07
US	52986477	R3DM17IIA4Y98T	1565041860	124683819	10: Dancers at the End of Time (HB) *OP (The Eternal Champion)	Books	5	20	22	N	N	Who says decadence is bad?	Definitely the most ornate of the many Eternal Champion books, the Dancers book literally drip with the times of Oscar Wilde and company, every sentence is flowering and flowing, wrapping around themselves several  times, almost wallowing in their lyrical flavor before leading directly  into the next one.  For once, Moorcock manages to deliver this high minded  language without sounding pretentious, not many people could pull that off.  And his world here is as far from the blood drenched sword and sorcery  conflicts that make up the Elric, Corum, Hawkmoon books, like the Jerry  Cornelius books (who both the characters and the plots mostly resemble)  nothing seems to happen even as the action is spiraling around, philosophy  that most writers would spend entire books on is tossed off in careless  comments, the Law/Chaos arugments are brought up again but you don't even  notice.  The best part is the character interaction, for all their  decadence and carelessness, the Dancers are a bit of a lovable bunch  because of their innocence and you can't help cheering on the burgoning  romance of Amelia and Jherek, both savoring the long drawn out tension and  cursing that she doesn't ditch that loser of a husband and go with Jherek.  The romance is at the center of the book and Moorcock knows it, he aptly  illustrates the passions that just burn underneath the surface of the two  lovers and makes you sympathize with their conflicts.  Deep down inside you  know they're going to be together but since this is a Moorcock book you  wonder what form.  The happy ending is nice for once as well, one can only  stomach Elric's seemingly endless self pity for so long, entertaining and  thought provoking as it is.  This series basically rewrites the Jerry  Cornelius books, takes out the stuff that made it nearly incomprehensible  (if you've read them you know exactly what I mean) and layers the plot on  thick, some people complain they had trouble following it, coming off some  of his more complicated stuff, this couldn't be easier, heck I guessed a  lot of the twists before they happened, but I missed nearly as many as  well.  All in all, one of the more entertaining and well rounded Eternal  Champion books, it even has some great guest appearance by other characters  from the other series (and what Moorcock book would be incomplete without  that?), it offers adventure, romance and some philosophy in a nice package  that leaves you with a good feeling when you've finished.  Doesn't get  better than this.s more complicated stuff, this couldn't be easier, heck I guessed a  lot of the twists before they happened, but I missed nearly as many as  well.  All in all, one of the more entertaining and well rounded Eternal  Champion books, it even has some great guest appearance by other characters  from the other series (and what Moorcock book would be incomplete without  that?), it offers adventure, romance and some philosophy in a nice package  that leaves you with a good feeling when you've finished.  Doesn't get  better than this.	1999-07-01
US	52986477	R38F9KBGVVRSD5	0962344745	467628410	The Essential Ellison: A 35 Year Retrospective	Books	5	22	22	N	N	Wow!	Like anyone interested in science-fiction I had heard of Harlan Ellison but could never find any sort of book that would fairly summerize his talents and save me the trouble of tracking down his best stories among the  many volumes available.  Unfortunately this is not that book, a lot of his  best stuff is in here but a lot more is still left out, notably (for me)  &quot;The Beast That Shouted Love At the Heart of the World&quot;, however  if you want one volume to serve as a sort of introduction to as many sides  of the author as they could cram in, this is probably your best bet.  A  thousand pages and not a wasted page among them, sure you get some early  stuff that is just amateurish or just plain normal genre fiction, but then  it's a &quot;retrospective&quot; and not a greatest hits package (though  that would be nice too), most of the stories are good and some, like  &quot;Deathbird&quot; or &quot;Repent Harlequin, Said the Ticktockman&quot;  are simply mindblowing and well worth any effort made to get a hold of  them.  And I'm leaving out a lot more, this guy has more  &quot;awesome&quot; stories that most people should be allowed.  Even the  essays and other articles are revelatory, showing the passion and fire that  courses behind all his stories without the fictional settings hiding them.  He's at his best when speaking plainly but he can weave a darn good yarn at  the same time.  Get this if you have any passing interest in the man and  while it shouldn't be your only Ellison purchase, it's a good a place to  start as any	1999-06-29
US	52986477	RTSK2N0648RRE	1565041844	622443438	Kane of Old Mars (Eternal Champion)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Good clean fun	Wow it's been like two years since I've reviewed one of these things . . . good to be back.  This is a good place to jump into Moorcock though not the best place to start, since by his own admission he's blantly aping (though  some might say, &quot;paying homage to&quot;) the John Carter of Mars  series by Edgar Rich Burroughs and thus it's more of a stylistic exercise  than a full fledged Moorcock effort, heck when he wrote it, it was  originally under a pen name.  However, with all that said, it'll still be  one of the more entertaining reads that you can come across, the stories  still have enough twists and turns to be exciting and through the character  of Michael Kane you get enough philosophy to have you give it a little  thought, that's not the point here though, the point here is to sort of  check your brains at the door and have as much fun as Moorcock was having  when he wrote it.  Which is lots.  Actually for a similar non John Carter  reference along these lines, readers might want to track down old Adam  Strange comics which run along the same lines only in a more  science-fiction setting rather than this science-fiction/heroic fantasy  sort of mix.  Definitely a breath of fresh air among all the heavy  philosophical musings of the other Eternal Champions.	1999-06-29
US	52986477	R1EOAM4Y84M5FZ	1556432844	827091245	5: The Perfect Host: Volume V: The Complete Stories of Theodore Sturgeon	Books	5	10	11	N	N	A literary slap in the face	As a writer, Sturgeon provokes one of two reactions in me: either to just give up since I know I'll never be able to equal that much quality for as long as I live, or to sit back down and write even more in an redoubled  effort to equal that quality.  I tend to like the second myself and I think  Ted would agree, reading one of his stories you get a sense of wonder and  enchantment, much as he probably felt writing it and to me it's like a  gaunlet being thrown down saying, &quot;This is the best I can do, I know  you can do just as good.  Prove it.&quot;  Ah but the quality here is not  to be believed.  Even if you discount the &quot;undiscovered&quot; story  &quot;Quietly&quot; which is apparently a precursor somehow to More Than  Human (it's a tenuous link, even the series editor admits it) there's stuff  like the title story, one of the groundbreaking stories not only for  science fiction telling but the short story genre in general, there's also  a neat creepy jazz story and a Western story and so much that when you  finish you sit back and think about all the good stuff you just read . . .  and then realize that the five volumes that are to come are supposed to  represent his very best work.  Argh, Ted, you don't make the challenge easy  but I think it's one I accept.  You want no less.  Read them all already,  what are you waiting for?	1999-06-17
US	52986477	R38RW8AEQG1CN3	1556432526	580577445	4: Thunder and Roses: Volume IV: The Complete Stories of Theodore Sturgeon	Books	5	11	12	N	N	Brilliant!	Four volumes in and no clunkers yet, this guy had something special . . . and his Hugo and Nebula winning short story is still about thirty years away.  Wow.  If you've been following along all this time let me just say  that this volume will give you more pleasures than any writer had any right  to give you, most writers have a couple truly amazing short stories within  them and while not everything Sturgeon wrote was genius the sheer amount of  good stuff here is simply astounding.  &quot;Thunder and Roses&quot; has to  be one of the most humane stories ever written and others like &quot;There  is No Defense&quot; or &quot;The Professor and the Teddy Bear&quot; (if it  doesn't scare you, you must not have a pulse) stand up remarkably well.  Again, you owe it to get every volume of this series and save it for the  generations to come, we have so few literate writers these days and those  few that we have deserve to be remembered and enjoyed.  Sturgeon is one.  Read him.	1999-06-13
US	52986477	R6ZR827YPIIV4	1556432275	73024751	3: Killdozer!: Volume III: The Complete Stories of Theodore Sturgeon	Books	5	12	13	N	Y	The streak continues	This is the third volume of the serieis and I'm reading the fourth now and I have to say that if you have ANY passing interest in science-fiction, literature, basically anything related to writing and the art of the short  story, you owe it to yourself to hunt down these volumes, they're about the  best service the publishing industry has done for one of its writers in  years.  You won't get genius each time but each volume has its own gems to  treasure.  This one has of course the masterful Killdozer among other  things, the stories are branching out more here, most are touching in some  way but all are at the very least entertaining, my favorite might just be  the unpublished &quot;August Sixth, 1945&quot; which distills brilliantly  the thoughts of a generation realizing the power they had with atomic  energy and coming to grips with just what it meant.  You can see a shift in  his stories at that point and especially with the later &quot;Thunder and  Roses&quot;, as with most science fiction writers, the future was now and  it wasn't all rosy and they felt they had a duty to show that it could be  good that the shining stuff they showed in their stories could come true.  Sturgeon believed that because he believed in people and he loved everyone  and nothing shows that better than his stories.  Read them and you come to  know the man.  And he's worth knowing.	1999-06-11
US	52986477	R2LC9EHJD3BIE2	1556433018	750392289	2: Microcosmic God: Volume II: The Complete Stories of Theodore Sturgeon	Books	5	14	14	N	Y	Brilliant!	The best part of this collection is that he only got better later . . . this is only the second volume and just about every story here is a keeper and the really great ones will stick in your head forever.  &quot;The  Microcosmic God&quot;, &quot;Cargo&quot;, &quot;Jumper&quot; and all that  type are nothing less than entertaining and at the same time showing you  Sturgeon's highly sensative glimpses into the human heart.  This guy cared  about everyone and understood what made people tick, while some of his  stuff might be considered formulaic still at this point, he can't be a  genius everytime out and seeing everything in the proper order and context  allows you to see his evolution.  This entire ten volume series is a  blessing, there aren't many writers who we get the chance to see them  develop and there aren't that many who deserve this chance, all in all  Sturgeon is at the top of the list.  Cheers to whoever thought of this  idea.  Make sure these always stay in print!	1999-06-07
US	52986477	RY22SFZP10XX3	1556432992	353091643	1: The Ultimate Egoist: Volume I: The Complete Stories of Theodore Sturgeon	Books	5	7	7	N	N	About time	Just about any good science fiction/fantasy fan has known of the genius of Theodore Sturgeon and now everyone has the chance to experience his genius with this series which basically reprints everything he set down on paper.  This is the first set of stories he did and even here you can see the gems  shining through.  A lot of the stories are formulaic at times but you never  seem to notice that he works the same type of plot twist over and over  because of his eye for detail and his love for the human spirit.  Reading  his stories you get a feeling of dwelling with something utterly unique and  just when you think that you have him pegged down, a story like &quot;Helix  the Cat&quot; or &quot;It&quot; or &quot;The Ultimate Egoist&quot; or even  &quot;Bianca's Hands&quot; shows up and you realize that this guy is  something special.  By all means get all these volumes and treasure them.  It's worth the expense.	1999-06-03
US	52986477	R254PR3PGPJFJ7	0385475403	445653873	Complicity	Books	5	38	40	N	N	This is out of print?  Why?	The fact that Iain Banks isn't more widely read in this country is almost criminal and this book just emphasizes how wrong that is.  Easily one of the best books of its' year, of any year, for that matter, at first glance  it seems to be a standard thriller/mystery, with the unlikable (somewhat)  journalist at its core, and some weird murders.  But Banks spins a plot  that's so knotty you miss the obvious, like the best mysteries the solution  makes you go &quot;Why didn't I see that?&quot;  Plus his command of the  language is heads and shoulders above anyone else around, the characters  seem to have more than three dimensions, the flashbacks literally tingle  with realism, you don't read this story as much as you're drawn into it.  Fortunately it's fairly short, or you'll find yourself neglecting family  and friends trying to finish it in one sitting.  It's quite possible.  And  yes, there are some brutal moments but the scary part of it is that it's  nothing worse than you'll have read in your local newspaper.  And the  ending is nigh perfect, as good as they come.  Having read Banks'  science-fiction books I wasn't sure what to expect from his  &quot;regular&quot; fiction but except that one genre has spaceships and  ray guns, there's little difference, it's the same top quality.  Read  anything with this guy's name on it and harass the publishers until we get  more of this guy's book in this country.  You'll be glad for it.	1999-05-27
US	52986477	R3F8AKUB9C42G5	0151306400	760697829	Fiasco (English and Polish Edition)	Books	5	19	23	N	N	Vintage Lem	This is the only one of his books that I've ever read outside of Solaris and there are a lot of parallels in that book.  Like that one, Lem discusses contact with an alien race and like Solaris, that contact goes  against all previous sci-fi notions along those lines.  Though in Solaris  the alien was the planet and it was largely unreachable as an entity, which  was the point, here the aliens even talk to the crewmembers though Lem  still never shows what they look like.  But this has some of his most  interesting philosophical discussions, something we don't see a lot of in  science-fiction today, or ever, for that matter.  The reactions of the crew  to a planet completely at war are fascinating, instead of staying out of  it, they keep trying to show their strength and scare the inhabitants . . .  so much for that Prime Directive.  To me, the reactions of the crew were  much more realistic than any other book I've read and if some people think  they're extreme . . . well try to imagine yourself in the same situation.  It's nearly impossible.  It's a pity that this book is out of print when so  many other lesser books are, but a dedicated fan can find it and if the  number of reviews here inspires someone to go search it out, then hey,  we've done our job.	1999-05-25
US	52986477	R2UUE0TBIDXJV1	0441359175	340611713	I Will Fear No Evil	Books	5	1	3	N	N	Good but not as good as you might think	The name &quot;Heinlein&quot; is normally synonomous with &quot;quality&quot; but in this case something got lost in the translation it seems.  Not that the premise isn't great, an old man seeks to transplant  his brain into another body and it winds up being his secretary, who  everyone loved, and as another neat twist, she appears as a ghost and talks  to him.  Sounds good?  I thought it did, however soon after the transplant  the entire plot sort of vanishes for an extended exposition on sex and sex  and, well, sex.  The same points about men and women are brought up again  and again to the point of redundancy.  Everyone seems to have sleeping with  everyone else, or at least thinking about it, which would be okay normally,  Heinlein has done that before, it's just that any other plot motivation  just sort of evaporated.  And then someone else becomes a ghost in his head  in one of the more ridiculous &quot;plot&quot; developments (I won't say  who so as not to spoil the book for any new readers, you deserve that  surprise at least).  There are good points though, the conversations in his  head are often entertaining when they're not obsessed with sex and the  ending is fairly moving.  And, really, if you drop any notions that the  story is going to go anywhere (you're better off, since it doesn't) and  just sort of go with the flow, you might find yourself interested at some  point.  All in all not the best Heinlein book to start with, go back to  Stranger in a Strange Land or Time Enough for Love (the latter is almost  the same thing only more interesting by far), and then once you've tried  that, come over to this one.  You'll be better prepared.	1999-05-18
US	52986477	R28A95UWV7STOS	0345330145	428889418	Puppet Masters	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Not vintage Heinlein but good enough	This book has sort of dated badly with its depiction of a cold war and an attitude on Communism that is many years out of date but other than that the plot itself is typical Heinlein, which means that it's darn good.  Simply put he went for the simple this time out and the premise is that  alien invaders who can steal our minds are trying to take over the Earth.  The aliens aren't given much personality and if you're looking for ET sort  of interactions this isn't going to happen, the aliens never really talk  and most of the time they only show up so the humans can kill them.  In  fact this is mostly a celebration of why we should be so glad the military  is around and that in the end the best way to get rid of something is to  just annihilate it.  Yeah, whatever you say, Rob.  Fortunately he tends to  tone down the radical stuff this time out (for an example of when he  doesn't go read Starship Troopers, otherwise very good as well) and what  we're left with is great fun, Heinlein throws in everything, suspense,  terror and heck even a little romance for those interested in that sort of  stuff.  What we're left with is a depiction of paranoia that is very  interesting and those ideas that are weird that he uses are fairly harmless  (i.e. why do we wear clothes and if you're wondering what I'm talking about  just go read the book).  In other words it's not essential Heinlein but is  just a small step below.  Hey good enough for me.	1999-04-20
US	52986477	R2KGXKGNEG5Q3X	0449213013	750649906	Earth Abides	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Depressing but that's the point	One of the better disaster novels to come out in this century, Stewart essentially takes the Robinson Crusoe point of view and applies it to (then) contemporary America, having a plague wipe out most people, even  though the rationale that it's because people are too numerous is a little  on the shaky side, he should have just taken the Solaris route and said he  didn't know.  Would have made things more interesting.  However, in itself  the novel is an excellent and very realistic portrayal of people struggling  to live after everyone else is gone.  Nobody has any real need for ambition  since everything they could ever want is right there.  The main character  is the only one who can think ahead far enough to see that the children  have to be taught so that civilization can come back but when the book ends  it's unclear if that will ever happen.  The point I think is to show that  we're not better than the animals when it comes to civilization and that  our intelligence doesn't necessarily make us better, an old point, to say  the least but one that should be stated often.  Evolutionarily the human  race just got lucky and as quick as we rose (a million years isn't that  long really when you figure the age of the planet) we can fall just as  fast.  And the thing that makes Earth Abides so more real is that  civilization isn't restarted, to have that happen would seem unreal, a  small group of people does not a civilization make and to have them turn  into some sort of super-community to go across the US and return society to  what it was before would just seem unrealistic and that would have ruined  the point of the book.  The way it's written now is much more interesting  because even though it's so depressing, it feels that much more likely and  thus in the end is more satisfying.	1999-04-16
US	52986477	RQS4U8F61BRU2	0553286374	522937206	Bradbury Classic Stories 1: From the Golden Apples of the Sun and R Is for Rocket (Grand Master Editions)	Books	5	28	28	N	N	Great stuff	If anything this collection only reasserts what a treasure Bradbury is, probably the most American of our short story writers and one who can still speak to everyone with his stories.  His tone is as calm as Arthur Clarke  but you never really realize that you're reading something fantastic and  outerworldly, he can make every event seem commonplace.  This set is a  collection of many of his best and most of the have become part of our  consciousness, where we can barely envision a world where these stories had  never existed.  &quot;The Foghorn&quot; is probably one of his best known  but there are others equally worthy.  &quot;R is for Rocket&quot; is his  best story by my counts, though &quot;Frost and Fire&quot; isn't too  behind.  The wealth of classic material in here is almost criminal, one  person shouldn't be this creative.  The only complaint is that a bunch of  the stories in the R is for Rocket section were repeated in the Illustrated  Man but that's a minor complaint really.  They're just as good the second  time.  Go read this if you have any doubts about Bradbury's genius and you  shall doubt no longer.	1999-04-02
US	52986477	RD5PC1C838M3	034532448X	734682067	The October Country	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Dark Carnival Lite	Basically an edited and spruced up version of his short story collection Dark Carnival, this is still prime reading, even though it does make you want to see what the original collection was like. However the stuff here  and some of Bradbury's greatest even if most of his fans don't remember or  realize that in his early days he was an excellent writer of horror  fiction, definitely more poetic than Stephen King and on many levels just  as frightening.  The best stories here are utterly disturbing in both the  calmness of tone and the horror of the situation (notably &quot;The Small  Assassin&quot;) and several come close to his trademark nostalgia, for the  most part it's absent here.  Some of the other stories take a twist and  turn it into terror, such as the one with the fact that people are more  likely to murder at ninety two degrees in temperature.  And all of it ranks  as some of his best writing, even when the storieis themselves are merely  okay, the lyrical nature of his writing resonates and shows why Bradbury  can't be easily shoehorned into one catagory, whether people try to  classify him as fantasy, horror, science-fiction, whatever.  He's just a  writer and in his case that's good enough.	1999-03-26
US	52986477	R2A1N92IQDL9AA	0380729407	944543338	Something Wicked This Way Comes	Books	5	14	18	N	N	Perfect	Bradbury has always been a better short story writer than a novelist but occassionally he comes along with something that makes you wonder why he doesn't write more novels.  However most of his best novels read like  longer short stories and this one is no exception.  Not that I'm  complaining, mind you, because this one is so good you don't notice how  short it is and really don't even care.  His classic seems engrained on our  collective conscious and most people probably think the phrase  &quot;Something wicked this way comes&quot; comes from the title of this  book and not from the Shakespeare play (Macbeth?).  The one thing I notice  that's different about his writing is that it's far more lyrical than  normal, he seems to have a better command of the English language and every  sentence and paragraphp seems dense with imagery and metaphors.  The story  itself ain't too bad either, the tale of a carnival that has come to take  the souls of the unsuspecting town, and only two boys and a father who  doubts himself can stop them.  Mr Dark is one of the best villians ever to  grace a novel and he exudes menace and pure evil all at the same time.  The  entire novel feels like a child's dream turned into nightmare and  Bradbury's trademark nostalgia is still there, though less prominent than  usual.  Everything is beautifully constructed and you'll want to savor the  writing over and over.  Everyone who thought he had left horror should read  this, even though it's not in the same vein as say The October Country it's  close enough and just as enjoyable.	1999-03-23
US	52986477	R35XPZRF840M5R	055327449X	303683311	The Illustrated Man (Grand Master Editions)	Books	5	15	18	N	N	Classic collection	This is one of those &quot;must own&quot; books that you always hear  about, in a hundred years this and a handful of other Bradbury books will  be considering classics of American literature.  Basically a collection of  about a guy who has all this illustrations on his body that shows the  stories to an unnamed observer.  Personally I have no idea why he bothered  with the Illustrated Man concept, the stories stand on their own just fine,  though it does give him the opportunity to give a great sucker punch  ending.  And the concept is basically ignored after the second story but  hey when the stuff is this good who am I to complain?  The stories  themselves, like I said are all excellent, some more than others but it's  mostly the distinction between &quot;real good&quot; and &quot;really  really really good&quot;.  The highlights are the opening &quot;The  Veldt&quot; which is classic Bradbury and some story about some guys on  Venus who are going crazy from getting rained on and a few others.  Most of  his stories are science-fictional, often revolving in one way or another  around rockets but Bradbury deals less with actual science and more about  fantasy and dreams, leading to some real good touching moments, above all  his stories are about people, they just happened to be set in the future on  Mars.  Some are sentimental, some are creepy, some are funny but all are  good.  And it's quick reading, so you have no excuse.  Get it today	1999-03-11
US	52986477	R9XWZJN3P3BUU	0394824091	291254545	The Halloween Tree	Books	5	51	52	N	N	More than just a kid's book	You might want to dismiss this as one of Bradbury's lesser works because  of the simplistic plot and writing style but that would be a mistake.  What  we have here is one of his most important books and one of his best.  Taking cues from Dickens, Bradbury writes a timeless tale of Halloween that  isn't carried along by dovetailing plottwists or dense knotted prose but  simply a quest to save someone and the boundless exuburance of children.  I  literally finished this while waiting for a class to start and when I had a  few pages left and class started I sat there and finished the book.  Once  you start reading it you can't stop, the momentum of is one of constant  motion.  And it's not a kids book, sure the themes of innocence are there  but also are the more serious topics of death and darkness, as seen through  the filters of a child.  For all it's length it's a perfect book for the  most part and one that deserves to be read every year together with a bunch  of people.  On Halloween of course	1999-03-09
US	52986477	R2MARSB70QIPKU	0689115415	724700440	Helliconia Winter (Helliconia, 3)	Books	5	15	16	N	N	Fitting ending	Just as the series began with everything waking up with spring, so it ends with the world once again falling asleep for winter.  Definitely ranking as one of the best series of all time, Aldiss finishes weaving his masterful  plot, somehow making a book that is in the vein of the others and yet  completely different.  The matter of Earth is finally clarified and he ties  in the destiny of us with Helliconia and shows that the two planets aren't  all that different after all.  Brilliant stuff and stuff that deserves wide  reading, but as I keep saying, some publisher has let this series go out of  print.  Criminal, I tell you.  Someone get this series into the right hands  where it belongs!  A classic.	1999-03-05
US	52986477	RSD2CJ7PKXZXU	0689113889	878328550	Helliconia Summer	Books	5	10	10	N	N	One of the best	Continuing his very successful (critcally at least I have no idea how well it sold, though the book trumpets that it's an &quot;international best seller&quot;) Helliconia series about a planet with a two thousand year  long revolution and two hundred year seasons (give or take), he expands and  clarifies all the stuff that happened in the first book, which you don't  even need to read to understand.  So much time has passed since the first  book that everything that happened is mostly the stuff of distorted legend  if they even remember it at all. This time around he chooses to focus on  one group of people over a period of maybe ten years or so instead of the  massive scope of the first book and he proves he can pull off both with  ease.  Court intrigue, suspense, the slow heating of the planet amidst the  politics of the planet, it's all there.  And just so you remember that  Aldiss is a science-fiction writer, he expands on the notion of Earth  watching the planet and shows that they'll have more of a role in the  series than you would expect.  All in all, incredibly detailed  planetbuilding by someone not normally known for that sort of stuff, this  is the type of book that people label a &quot;classic&quot; and for good  reason.  Everything works, even the plot technique of showing us the  aftermath of something and then bouncing back in the narrative to show us  what happened before (and they passing it at some point, it can get  confusing if you're not paying attention) works.  Even with the heat and  whatnot, Helliconia becomes a place you want to live.  I know I do.  Criminally this book is out of print, something that should be recitified  by someone (listening publishers, this series should not only be available  in Britian!) but if you ever find it used, snap it up, it might be hard to  find but definitely worth the time spent searching for it.	1999-03-02
US	52986477	R3Q0KPV8OQVWWY	0679722769	705442339	Ulysses	Books	5	0	2	N	N	The model for all others	Every author who has either used the stream of consciousness style or been labeled anything near &quot;postmodern&quot; is probably just following in the footsteps of this novel and very few have ever come close.  Joyce shows  here that to get the technique down right you need more than technique,  even more than a command of the English language, you need a good  viewpoint.  And Ulysses has many, from Bloom to his wife Molly to Dedalus,  every person is detailed through their thoughts and words with enough  dimension to make you wonder if this is a novel or a true account.  Is it  difficult to read?  Yup.  Most parts you can at least figure out what's  going on but some, like the play section toward the middle, at times makes  absolutely no sense (and what is up with that, is it a dream or something),  but some parts that you think would be impossible, like the massive  sequence at the end with Molly not only is nearly compulsively readable but  quite beautiful at the same time.  It's weird to say this but at times I  wanted the book to be longer.  Simply put, one of, if not THE greatest  novel ever to come out of the English language (though I'm a Pynchon fan  first . . . sorry), one of those few novels that everyone should at least  attempt, if only to immerse yourself in the complexity of the language.	1999-02-19
US	52986477	R1YI94ICOX93Y8	0020160909	538643582	001: Helliconia Spring (Collier Nucleus Science Fiction Classic)	Books	5	34	43	N	N	Frank Herbert eat your heart out	The fact that this series is not in print is almost criminal, probably because Aldiss is British or something.  But for those who haven't heard of perhaps the greatest science-fiction series ever to be written, the  Heliconnia series was Aldiss' attempt at a world building on the scale of  Dune, but at the same time using it to make a commentary on his feelings  about current society.  Lofty goals but the beauty of it is that it never  feels like he's overextending himself, everything feels natural and the  book never deviates from Aldiss' calm, almost Arthur Clarke like narration,  though his use of metaphor is much better than the more hard science  oriented Clarke. For those coming in late, Aldiss envisioned Heliconnia as  a Earth like planet with one big difference, really really really long  seasons.  The planet takes about 2500 years to orbit so each generation  effectively notices only one season.  In the first book he shows the end of  winter and the reawakening of civilization, a cycle that has gone by many  times without anyone realizing it.  In the beginning the book is almost  standard Tolkein stuff, fantasy but just when you think that Aldiss has  gone into sword and sorcery, it throws in a bit with Earth having set up an  orbiting space station to watch the planet, reminding you that above all  this is a science-fiction story. If you can find even one book of this  series used, snap it up as fast as you can, or just swamp a publisher with  requests to put it back into print. Like Moorcock's Cornelius series, this  is one that deserves to be out there for everyone to read.	1999-02-19
US	52986477	R1Y4HORAECD3IH	0345324196	930634465	The Golden Torc	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Keepin' the streak alive	Following the fascinating first volume of the Saga of Pliocene Exile was probably a difficult affair, but May pulls it off with almost impossible ease.  Somehow she manages to continue the story started in the first book while still having The Golden Torc stand mostly on its own as a separate novel.  Of course, reading the first is required, but the continuity is not so dense that new readers can't figure out what's going on.<br /> May keeps the action moving by shuffling all her plots around, and keeping tight rein on the huge cast of characters.  Occassionally there are so many that you lose sight of some, but never enough so you lose the story.  Julian May shows that none of her characters are safe, killing off some of the original cast, adding some more, and basically keeping the reader guessing to the end.<br /> Better than a sequel, it's a continuation that leaves the reader satisified and at the same time wanting more.  Good thing there's a volume three.  Now, if you'll excuse me, I think I hear it calling my name . . .	1998-05-21
US	52986477	RAEP22WP93JJB	0345324447	890299623	The  Many-Colored Land (The Saga of Pliocene Exile)	Books	5	5	7	N	N	Fascinating blend of science fiction and fantasy	There aren't many people who can pull off such a blend of genres that unfold upon reading The Many Colored Land, but somehow May pulls it off.  Normally one would expect some of each genre's fans to be turned off by her treatment, but the blend is entirely seamless.  While the beginning of the book is mostly science fiction, when they actually get to the Pliocene, the science fiction elements, while still there, fade slightly to show the awe inspiring fantasy sequences.<br /><br /> But I haven't even gotten started on the story.  Ah, the plot, I don't think I've ever seen anything like it before.  It's complex yes, but when the book ends you get the sense that something has been accomplished, and that you haven't been reading four hundred pages to get shafted by a bunch of loose ends.  There's a sense of closure.  This is a book where you continue onto the next one because you want to, not because you feel some need to keep plodding on.  It's just that good.<br /><br /> Oh, and just as an aside, those who are interested in the prehistory of this planet will find that most of May's research is completely accurate, keeping in mind of any new discoveries that have been made since the book was written.  But the amount of research that had to go into getting the Pliocene right is astonishing, everything down to the crisp chill in the air warning of the Ice Age coming just a few million years down the road.  The age comes alive.<br /><br /> But why listen to me ramble on?  Read the darn thing already?	1998-04-27
US	52986477	R1XJUKEYN7LSYS	0812516338	550073564	A Million Open Doors	Books	5	13	14	N	N	Heinlein who?	Much has been made of the similarities between Heinlein and Barnes, at least it seems to me.  Most copies of the paperback I've seen have some reviewer or other touting Barnes as the &quot;new Heinlein&quot; which I think can be misleading.  Much of what Heinlein did was similar, granted, but Heinlein tended to take more of a . . . shall we say radical bent toward his topics, which put off more than one reader.  The difference between Barnes and Heinlein is that while a typical Heinlein book had revolution plastered all over it (and at his best the man was good enough to keep it from being distracting), the work of John Barnes, and especially of A Million Open Doors is more of a quiet, understated revolution.  Instead of hitting the reader over the head with it, Barnes takes us through the tale of a boy finally learning to be a man on a world totally unlike his own.  In the process he shows us both worlds and shows us what is wrong with those worlds and why.  In this way, I think Barnes can make readers think without forcing them to think, which seems more like Ursula K. Le Guin than Heinlein.  Either way, from this book it's clear that Barnes, while maintaining some vestiges of both Heinlein and Le Guin, is quickly on his way to becoming neither of them, instead he is becoming the next John Barnes.  That's revolution enough.	1998-04-14
US	52986477	R3BV28MF19K1VB	055310652X	847641664	The Rise of Endymion (Hyperion Series)	Books	5	1	2	N	N	What else is left to explain?	You don't realize how much Simmons actually left dangling from the previous three books until you get to the end of this one.  Still, it's a testament to his genius that he manages to get mostly all of it explained in a way that makes sense.  This book continued the grand tradition of the Hyperion books, not surpassing them but carrying it with ease.  Most of it was suspenseful though the first person past tense/present tense switching was at times inexplicable and hinted that at least Endymion survived to the end.<br /> One thing that Simmons never failed to do was shock me though, scenes like the TechnoCore explaining what their final motivation was still enough to give me a chill and some parts made me wonder just how far Simmons had planned in advance.  Several things weren't explained, such as who the Lions and Tigers and Bears actually were and what they wanted, and how the hell the Shrike came about in the first place (we find out who he is, but never who's side he's on).  Still those are minor complaints to what was one the best series ever to come out of science fiction, ever.  Though I did miss the like forty plot threads from Hyperion/Fall of Hyperion and how they mixed this book was not only a suitable addition but a grand and graceful finale.  The end is as close to perfect as they come, and shows that Simmons can always leave you wanting more.<br /> I eagerly await to see where he's going to go from here.	1998-03-18
US	52986477	RK4LQT4IWSF1I	0345412885	58749141	Truth Machine	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Pretty good, but not Orwell	In a nutshell, this was an engaging, thought provoking book that raised some great issues.  However, a lot of the plot twists were predictable, and some aspects seemed rushed.  The characters were good, but at times too simple.  None of this really distracted from the book, because it really isn't meant to be one of those comments on the state of the world books, just some entertainment for people who like to think.  It's not of the caliber of say, Brave New World or 1984, but it's good and well worth the time you would put into reading it.	1998-01-23
US	52986477	R2GBUQRF7A9M3O	0140189416	956359818	The Adventures of Augie March (Classic, 20th-Century, Penguin)	Books	5	11	11	N	N	Early Bellow is still excellent reading	This is the earliest Saul Bellow novel I have read thus far, and I've found it to be on par with his later, more mature and stylistically sharper works. This novel literally recreates life in the Depression and afterwards, something I never lived through but could swear on did now, knowing the attitudes and moods of the times that Bellow so expertly details in this rollicking novel.<br /> The cover alone drew me in, the stark black and white shot of 1930's Chicago, a moment captured of bustling humanity, an era that can never be recreated, that can only be discovered in books suck as these.  Augie March is one of the most positive and endearing characters, trusting everyone and falling down again and again, but always get back up.<br /><br />Bellow weaves his huge cast of characters, far larger than his other later novels, with ease and any comparsion to Dickens are appropriate, but Bellow's style flows better, from first to last sentence, there is not a wasted phrase, not a lost word, not a sentence that leaves one scratching one's head in puzzlement.<br /><br />This is literature of the best kind, the kind that makes you think and feel.  This is literature doing what it is supposed to be doing.	1997-10-22
US	52986477	R2JS89DS2J9RXK	0140189432	303427184	Herzog (Penguin Twentieth-Century Classics)	Books	5	8	9	N	N	Bellow is the Master!	I don't think any other contemporary writer can write with the realism or conviction of Saul Bellow.  While most writers these days are going for the absurd and black humor, Bellow tells tales of people dealing with issues that threaten to tear them apart and he can do it in a way that makes the book a fascinating and entertaining read.<br /> Herzog is, of course, no exception.  Moses Herzog is a likable fellow who really doesn't deserve all that happened to him, but still has his flaws (he ponders killing his ex-wife and finds that he wouldn't have any problem doing it, although he doesn't), and that makes him, and his problems, all the more real.  The way he tears his heart out in his letters, letters that are never sent, in a strange and interesting way to look into the soul of a man baring himself to the world.<br /><br />Along with Mr. Sammler's Planet, this book forms some of the pillars of modern literature and are written in a style that is often emulated, but never equalled.  Don't read those copying Bellow's style, read the man himself.  Start here, start anywhere.  Just read the book already.	1997-10-18
US	52986477	R17P686QXKPTWM	014018936X	277311248	Mr. Sammler's Planet (Penguin Twentieth Century Classics)	Books	5	9	12	N	N	Superb!  One of Bellow's best	This was my introduction to Saul Bellow and I probably shouldn't have started with this one, because all the others probably pale in comparsion to this.  They have to.  Anyone this good would have to be some inhuman writing machine.  Wow.<br /> Sammler is a human being like the rest of us tackling questions that we all have given passing thought to at least once in our lives.  He may come to a firm conclusion about them, but he gives it his best shot, even as he deals with his family, including his dying nephew.<br /><br />The best part about this novel are the stream of consciousness narratives that show us the ebb and flow of Sammler's thoughts, where most of his thinking takes place.  Here are the best scenes in the novel, and Bellow does it with ease, showing that he is influenced by Joyce but not mastered by him, taking his techinques and refining them to the next level.<br /><br />Anyone interested in reading about the sixties should try this book, or just anyone who has ever stood and watched something happen and wonder why they didn't do anything, and wonder why.  So does Artur Sammler.	1997-10-14
US	52986477	ROXJILEDGIPH7	0380002930	498635851	Watership Down	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Lord of the Rings with rabbits	That pretty much summerizes the entire book, though no simple statements can do this work justice.  I mean, who else could take a concept so fundamentally silly as rabbits and actually make it valid literature?<br /> Besides that, it's also a damn good story too, enough for all ages, and all ages should read this novel.  It emphasizes freedom and the decisions to do what you want to do without anyone else ordering you around.  And Adams manages to do that without becoming preachy or condescending.<br /><br />It must have took a lot of effort for Adams not to make this into a term paper on rabbits, but he pulled it off and the effort shows.  This is one of the few books that deserved the word classic when it was printed and still deserves it twenty years later, and will probably still apply twenty years hence.  Brilliant.	1997-10-10
US	52986477	R10SLAZIVT9T7P	0345394801	383642995	Flatlander: The Collected Tales of Gil "The Arm" Hamilton	Books	5	8	11	N	N	Doesn't get any better than this	I really didn't have any clue that this book even existed until I went to find The Long ARM of Gil Hamilton, and discovered that not only did Flatlander have all the stories in the former book, but it had some new ones, too.  So I bought Flatlander without hesitation and read it.  And loved it.<br /> Actually, the only thing I found wrong with the book was the cover, which shows Gil missing his arm.  In fact, not only is his imaginary arm his left arm, but he got his arm replaced before he joined the ARMs.  Call me a completist, but I think Niven should have picked up on that and had them change it.<br /><br />But, the story.  They are all mysteries, which is quite a departure for Niven, who normally deals with spaceships and stars and in that vein.  Here, he shows his flexibility by combining the grand scope of his future history, with the personal side, showing Gil solve murders of friends, deal with touchy moral issues (should the frozen dead be assumed dead so they can go to the organ banks?), and through all of it having confidance in what he is doing, but not arrogance.<br /><br />We need more Gil the Arm stories.  Actually, it would be fun to see if Gil and Beowulf Shaeffer could meet (I'm not sure if they existed at the same time chronologically, but Niven could make it happen).  Either way, we need more.  How about it, Mr. Niven?	1997-10-06
US	52986477	R2FCDFLZ44WWO5	0345336941	616884404	Neutron Star	Books	5	13	14	N	N	One of the greatest collections of all time	I normally stay away from short story collections mostly because I would rather read novels than quick little tales.  Larry Niven is one of the few writers I believe can write the short story and novel with equal ease and this collection more than proves it.<br /> The tales are all founded on mostly hard science, but still maintain a flavor all their own, even with the task of fitting them in his Known Space series.  They range from funny to scary to introspective to everything in between.  All are excellent examples of what science-fiction has to offer.<br /><br />Lately Niven hasn't been doing too well in the novel department, so maybe the time is right for him to release another short story collection.  Even if they're only half as good as these, it'd be a great piece of writing.  Highly recommended.	1997-10-06
US	52986477	RZ2AVBNI94LN6	0345353129	225905405	Protector	Books	5	10	13	N	N	Classic of Known Space!	What can you say about this tale to someone who hasn't read it?  How about that if they want to get to know excellent science-fiction, or if they just want a story with crackling dialogue, pages bursting with ideas, and an essential part of an ongoing Future History, or an combination of the previous, then they don't have to look any further than this novel?<br /> I might even consider this book better than Ringworld, mostly because I can comprehend the ideas better and the plot was easier to follow than the other book.  Also, this novel is one that most of the other Known Space stories refer to, making it a must for any Larry Niven fan.<br /><br />The story of the Pak Protectors is also essental to the Ringworld saga, as anyone who read The Ringworld Engineers would know.  But I don't want to spoil the surprise, or the sheer joy of reading a classic novel for anyone.  Just go out and buy the book, borrow it from the library, or steal it from a friend, already!  What more do you want?	1997-10-06
US	52986477	R3JU9XGGTXM6JB	0385233124	834333861	Foundation and Earth	Books	5	20	24	N	N	Brilliant end to the series	I think this is the only Foundation book not in print anymore, and I have no idea why.  Not only is this the most important one in the series in the way that it provides a sort of conclusion to everything, it's just a great book.<br /> I liked Trevize in Foundation's Edge and we see more to his character here, which is great.  We also see more of that fun planet Gaia.  I found the arguments between Bliss and Trevize particularly amusing and what was interesting was that Trevize won just about all of them.  Give me the Seldon Plan anyday.<br /><br />The search for Earth took up some much of the book, but when we finally get there it's almost anti-climatic (though any readers of Robots and Empire will know what they find long before the characters do).  Fortunately Asimov doesn't allow us to dwell on that by springing the top surprise of the novel on us (which I won't say because I don't want to tip any readers off beforehand).<br /><br />In the process he clarifies and adds to his histories and weaves the Robot, Empire, and Foundation sagas even closer together.  What more can one ask in a novel, especially from Asimov?<br /><br />Oh, and I heard about the error, but I didn't see anything that seemed wrong.  If anybody knows what it is, the curiousity is killing me and I don't have the patience (or the time) to reread the book more carefully.  E-mail if you know!	1997-09-29
US	52986477	RH1QN68M3SYFP	0452272793	86586091	The Armies of the Night: History as a Novel, the Novel as History	Books	5	23	38	N	N	Should be required reading in history courses	I was never around for the events that were described in this book, so I wasn't sure how I would react to them.  I shouldn't have worried.  Mailer describes everything perfectly in the best third person narration I've ever seen.  The way he talks about himself and others is so objective at some times, brutally honest at others, that you wouldn't even know Mailer is writing the book.  Of course, knowing that he is the author and that is saying some not very nice things about himself makes it even more fun.<br /> But the true character in this book is not Mailer but the American people, shown here in all their squalor and glory.  Mailer treats everyone the same, from celeberties to the common protesters that he sees with their quiet bravery.  Before this book, I had never heard of the march on the Pentagon, but after it I am quite certain that it was a pivotal moment in American history with repercussions beyond the Vietnam War, some which we can still feel today.	1997-09-29
US	52986477	RX40GM36F28CJ	1565041836	247994201	Sailing to Utopia (HB) *OP (The Eternal Champion Series)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	One of the best so far!	One of the best things about Michael Moorcock is his immense variety.  I mean, even when he works within the same genre, his stories are so drastically different it's almost like you're reading a new author every time.  Sailing to Utopia is science-fiction, but it's of a science-fiction that is most unlike that of A Nomad of the Time Streams or The Roads Between the Worlds.  Unlike those two, there are no framing sequences, and these don't even have the same characters.  What they do have is a largeness of vision that is unparelled in scope.  Some comments follow:<br /><br />The Ice Schooner: A world that worships ice while in the midst of an Ice Age and refuses to believe that the ice will ever go away.  Okay, I'll buy it.  This is a good start, though compared to the other three it pales in comparsion.<br /><br />The Black Corridor: I loved this one.  It seems simple enough in the beginning, you know, a guy who is travelling while the others are in hibernation.  But the flashbacks reveal something else, and the dreams sequences make the book worth reading.  It gets really weird toward the end, but it doesn't matter.  A classic.<br /><br />The Distant Suns: The most &quot;normal&quot; science-fiction of the trio, but that doesn't matter, because Jerry Cornelius finally appears!  All right!  The best of the Eternal Champions in an interesting story about a far away planet with people not unlike themselves.  Good, but nothing compared to the Jerry Cornelius quartet (Cure for Caner, Final Programme, English Assassin, and The Condition of Muzak).  Hey, White Wolf, why don't you publish these, either as something separate or an addition to the Eternal Champion series!  Anybody listening?<br /><br />Flux: Moorcock's short stories tend to inhabit a new catagory of strange, and this is no exception.  This time another Von Bek (Max) travels the time stream and discovers some very disquieting things.  Ends things on an odd note, but there's nothing wrong with that.<br /><br />Halfway through the series now, and eagerly awaiting Kane of Old Marse series now, and eagerly awaiting Kane of Old Mars	1997-09-06
US	52986477	R19TYCRK2UY2JO	1565041828	81644402	Corum: The Coming of Chaos (Eternal Champion)	Books	5	14	18	N	Y	Excellent fantasy!	After reading the first six books in this series, it's a wonder how Moorcock can keep topping himself volume after volume and the Corum books are no exception.  Moorcock introduces us to another fantasy warrior creation, but somehow keeps him separate from Elric, Hawkmoon, et al.  Corum is just as good as any of these.<br /><br />Some general comments on the individual novels:<br /><br />The Knight of the Swords: Moorcock didn't use too much imagination this time when choosing a title, since except for one word all three are the same.  This one is the first introduction to Corum, showing his maiming (ouch), and his ultimate fight against Arioch, who is the Chaos Lord Elric is serving.  I don't know what effect this has on Elric, if any.  Great start, though.<br /><br />The Queen of the Swords: Corum continues to blast his way through the ranks of the Chaos Lords, this time being joined by his Eternal companion, who's other names I don't quite remember.  Nothing particularly distinguishes this one from the others, but it's still fun.<br /><br />The King of the Swords: All right!  When I read the summary for Sailor on the Seas of Fate, I knew the other champions were going to show up.  In fact, in that one Corum mentions a battle that he fought with Elric, though the albino doesn't remember it.  That should have tipped me off.  Here, without any fanfare, are the appearances of Elric and Erekose, and it's a very welcome diversion.  This is the battle Corum mentions in the Elric books, and I hope Moorcock writes other meetings of the Eternal Champions, perhaps bringing in some others like Elric meeting Jerry Cornelius or Hawkmoon meeting Oswald Bastable.  In fact, where was Hawkmoon in this one?  The Runestaff appeared, but not him.  What gives?  Best of the trio.&lt;P	1997-09-01
US	52986477	R32VZO40H76VU2	156504181X	252456452	The Roads Between the Worlds (Eternal Champion)	Books	5	5	9	N	N	Intruiging science-fiction	The cover of this book is what first attracted me. Any book that dares to place a demonic clown standing on top of the sun can be relied on to be at least mildly interesting.  Of course, first I had to read the other books in the series, so now that I finally get to this book, I've found that it lives up to the weird cover.  Rare science-fiction from Michael Moorcock (the other exception being A Nomad of the Time Streams), it's just as good as his others.<br /><br />Some comments on the three novels:<br /><br />The Wrecks of Time: Kicking off the volume off the volume with the strangest story scienifically, it gets even stranger toward the end, but the tale of Faustaff and his fight against the D-Squads is great.<br /><br />The Winds of Limbo: Ah, here the clown!  One of Moorcock's more political tales, it also brings back his Von Bek family, who appear to be playing on both sides of the conflict.  It's very good for a story with a clown and politics.<br /><br />The Shores of Death: Interestingly enough, Clovis Becker is the only definate Eternal Champion in this volume (and the only reason I know that is because he is mentioned when all the names are going through John Daker's head in the first volume).  Moorcock nevers explains how or when the planet stopped spinning, which is good, because if the Earth ever stopped spinning, everyone on it would be killed by interta, which would propel us all at thousands of miles per second.  Still, it doesn't get in the way of a good story.<br /><br />Great trio, though the connecting material leaves a little to be desired.  I couldn't figure out what it had to do with the stories, though I remember Renark Von Bek as the cosmic guy from The Sundered Worlds.  I assume that the stories are memories he is thinking about, but since he never appears in the stories, it is curious as to why he remembers them.  However, the connecting material is only at most a page long and this is only a minor quibble.  This is required reading for any interested in fun science-fictioncience-fiction	1997-08-31
US	52986477	R3EU1G58BXF7AE	0553562738	466136665	Doomsday Book	Books	5	0	1	N	N	Deserved all the awards	After reading all the reviews here, it seems that people are pretty divided on whether they liked this book or not, though it appeared that most were positive.  I tend to be in the positive camp. I quite enjoyed this book, for a lot of things.  The attention to detail of medeval times is nearly perfect, as far as I can tell.  Willis has an almost uncanny ability to portray her characters as such real people, that when the Plague comes (and you it is coming, and you know that everyone is going to die, and yet you hope.  Almost like Shute's On the Beach).  You can feel the anguish as Kivren is forced to watch all the people she has come close to die off one by one, agonizing, brutal, horrible deaths.  Clearly, Willis has done the research and what has emerged is a near perfect masterpiece of writing. It should have won more awards	1997-08-30
US	52986477	RW3ZY873BFZHB	1565041801	143770033	Elric: Song Of Black Sword (HB) *OP (Eternal Champion)	Books	5	9	10	N	N	Moorcock at his finest	Elric is probably the best, and best known, of all of Michael Moorcock's Eternal Champion characters (though Jerry Cornelius must be a close second), and I almost rushed through the previous four volumes in the series in an effort to get to this book.  And while those books were excellent examples of Moorcock's writing, this blows them all out of the water, showing fantasy unlike anything else.  Here are some thoughts on the individual stories:<br /><br />Elric of Melnibone: Great introduction and brilliant way to kick off the volume.  Everything about Elric is explained here.<br /><br />The Fortress of the Pearl: It's interesting to note that even though this one wasn't published until nearly the nineties, it fits seamlessly into the rest of the books, and of course the device of making him forget explains why the events here aren't referred to in later novels.  This one is good, still.<br /><br />Sailor on the Seas of Fate: Easily the best story in here, period.  You know its good when three other Eternal Champions show up (Erekose, Hawkmoon, and Corum), and they only stay through the first part, and the rest of the book just gets better!<br /><br />The Dreaming City: Elric takes out his home city.  I thought this was just a short story until I read the end and saw the rather major upheval Moorcock threw in at the end.  Quite the tragic tale.<br /><br />While the Gods Laugh: Another quickie tale, also tragic.  Elric appears to be wrestling with many demons (in his mind, at least).  Someone get this guy a shrink.<br /><br />The Singing Citadel: Last short story of the collection and probably the best, it shows Elric finally getting at least partially over the events of The Dreaming City, for a little while.  And hey, any volume with the Duke of Hell in it can't be all bad.<br /><br />My only quibble is that the entire six book series wasn't reprinted here in its entireity (only the first two were).  Hopefully that will be rectified when the eleventh book in the series: Elric: Stealer of Souls, is published.  I'll be waiting, is published.  I'll be waiting	1997-08-28
US	52986477	R13K6HKBX6Z37F	1565041941	560647201	4: A Nomad of the Time Streams	Books	5	2	2	N	N	The series just gets better!	This book is probably the most science-fictional of the four books in the series I have read thus far, and I'd probably consider it the best.  The three tales of Oswald Bastable are rife with ideas and imagination.  As usual, here are comments on the individual books:<br /><br />Warlord of the Air: Great introduction to Bastable.  I thought Moorcock in the beginning was him, so it was neat to see Bastable actually show up later.  The future of 1973 that he goes to is great on the surface, but dark underneath, and the political arguments are anything but one-sided, highlighting both sides.  Oh, and Oswald drops a bomb.<br /><br />The Land Leviatian: This one reminded me of Heinlein's novel Farnham's Freehold, for some reason.  The premise of blacks taking over the world in response to the crimes against them by whites is an interesting study of our world.  Still, Bastable still feels lousy for helping to destroy the obviously unrepentant whites.  Go figure.<br /><br />The Steel Tsarr: Longest of the three, and probably the most complex, set in a democratic Russia at war with its Cossacks.  Poor Bastable finally gets some peace with the help of Mrs Perrson.  And is it me, or is the Steel Tsar a dead ringer for Stalin?<br /><br />I enjoyed reading about Bastable and hopefully Moorcock will include more about him in the later book in the series.  In this one, he mentions that Bastable is mentioned in Warriors at the End of Time, so perhaps he's there.  I can't wait	1997-08-25
US	52986477	R1A0EHKJ7SX5L9	1565041933	203230863	3: Hawkmoon (Tr) *OP (The Eternal Champion)	Books	5	10	10	N	N	Keep it coming!	This is the third volume of Moorcock's Eternal Champion series and they just keep getting better and better.  Hawkmoon is one of the key characters in the series, and it's great to finally have all the hard to find novels in one large book, especially since reading them all together gives you the impression of one long sustained work.  Here are some quick comments on the individual novels:<br /><br />The Jewel in the Skull: Almost thought it was a Count Brass novel, since Hawkmoon doesn't really do much in this one.  It sets up the characters and their motivations and is a nice, quick read.<br /><br />The Mad God's Amulet: The Warrior in Jet and Gold shows up more (he's also the Knight in Black and Yellow from the other books), and Hawkmoon continues his quest.<br /><br />The Sword of the Dawn: It's a good thing Moorcock explains that the Runestaff makes complex patterns to draw people in, because it's seems that the plot twists come out of left field, especially here, where the pirates just happen to have the right sword.  Still, it's always fun to see Hawkmoon take on massive hordes of people and win.<br /><br />The Runestaff: The final novel is also the final battle for a lot of people.  This is probably the most costly war I've ever seen in literature, with people dying left and right.  Moorcock tells it all with a dispassionate tone similar to Mailer's Naked and the Dead.  The truimph is definately earned here, closing the Hawkmoon saga for now.<br /><br />This is a great continuation of the series, with little mention of the Eternal Champion, which seems to be Hawkmoon.  Though, I do miss the ironic commentary of John Daker from the earlier series.  Hopefully, he'll return soon.  Perhaps the next book . .	1997-08-22
US	52986477	R1KO16WK0AFLHY	1565041771	696626794	Von Bek - omnibus of The War Hound and the World's Pain, The City in the Autumn Stars, The Dragon in the Sword and The Pleasure Garden of Felipe Sagittarius (Tale of the Eternal Champion, Volume 2)	Books	5	8	10	N	N	The saga continues . . .	Easily the largest of the volumes in the series thus far, Von Bek can scare off readers when compared to the much slimmer Eternal Champion that preceded it.  But this hefty volume is a must for Moorcock fans or even fantasy fans in general, for it embellishes the themes and ideas that Moorcock made famous in the first book.  Here are my thoughts story by story:<br /><br />The War Hound and the World's Pain: Like the title.  This is the story that all the other Von Bek books refer back to, so it's a welcome addition.  Moorcock provides a lot of twists in this one, beginning with Lucifer wanting the Holy Grail to save the world.  Hopefully most people are open minded enough to see past this potentially offensive premise and read the exhilerating tale contained within.<br /><br />The City in the Autumn Stars: More philosophy than the first one and another appearance by the Prince of Darkness.  This is easily the longest story in the volume and every word counts.  Granted though, it does get weird in the end.<br /><br />The Dragon in the Sword: I found this one interesting, only because I had assumed that the Von Beks were just further incarnations of the Eternal Champion.  Apparently they aren't, as John Daker appears again to complain and eventually take charge.  This one is set during World War Two, but because of the fantastic settings, you'd never realize that.  Still, it's a good one and a major turning point in the life of John Daker.<br /><br />The Pleasure Garden of Felipe Sagittarius: Another good title, long for a short story though. This was a nice, if very odd, way to close out the volume.  Hitler makes another appearance (I don't know how), and Moorcock packs a lot of strange stuff into the thirteen or so pages of the story.  It is a great way to end, though, as we say goodbye to the Von Bek family, for now at least	1997-08-20
US	52986477	R1BJM6DZCN2WPY	0380708213	223407615	The Forever War	Books	5	4	6	N	N	Modern classic	Looking at the graphic of the cover of this edition, and looking at the cover of the edition I have, it makes me wonder why they didn't just keep the original cover, which was far better than both of them.  Old fans will know what I mean, the picture of the planets and the galaxies in the hourglass, slowly falling through.<br /><br />But covers aside, it's great that the publisher keeps this book in print, because this truly is a classic.  The story of the time displaced soldiers, going off each time in their ships knowing they are getting farther and farther away from the Earth that they knew, trapped in a war so long that neither opponent remembers what started the conflict, it is one of the most haunting moments in science-fiction, or in literature at all.<br /><br />But Haldeman does it all with a bit of humor also, as evidenced in the first couple of pages, and a bit of irony (when the soldier gets back in the future, everyone on Earth is a homosexual), but the author makes it all hang together beautifully. The Forever War takes all the grittiness of Heinlein's Starship Troopers and puts more emotion into it, giving the reader a book that more than deserved the Hugo and Nebula awards	1997-08-20
US	52986477	R2E13H7LDRGTDP	1565041917	500052033	1: The Eternal Champion (Paperback)	Books	5	24	26	N	N	Excellent beginning to Moorcock	I always wanted to read the Eternal Champion series by Michael Moorcock, but it included so many series and so many different books that were either hard to find or out of print that I figured the task was too hard.  Fortunately, the author has help set up this new series for lazy fans like me.  And it's very, very welcome.<br /><br />There are four novels in this volumn, so I'll take them separately:<br /><br />The Eternal Champion: One of his first and his simpliest, but the themes protrayed in it would have a lasting effect on the rest of the series. Some of the best scenes are those where Erekose is dreaming and the names of the other champions are being shouted.  Classic.<br /><br />The Sundered Worlds: Little departure, but its sets up the rest of the multiverse, although it can be hard to follow all the ideas at times.  But, hey, there's a Von Bek in it, can it be all that bad?<br /><br />Phoenix in Obsidian: I just like the title to be honest.  A nice continuation of the story of Erekose/John Daker/whoever, furthering the themes presented in the first story.  I think it's even simpler than The Eternal Champion, but still fun to read.<br /><br />To Rescue Tanelorn: A short story about the peaceful city that was only included because of said city.  A good fantasy tale with hints of what will later happen in the series.  And hey, it mentions Elric!  It can't be all that bad.<br /><br />So, while these stories are simple, one has to start somewhere, and with Michael Moorcock, the beginning is always the best place	1997-08-18
US	52986477	RCMI7ZRGGHUCS	0441790348	739394524	Stranger in a Strange Land (Remembering Tomorrow)	Books	5	9	10	N	N	Still good even today	I once made a joke to my English teacher regarding this book.  Looking through a catalog of books while my teacher was deciding what to order for her students to read next year, my eyes alighted on Stranger in a Strange Land.  &quot;Get this for the summer reading&quot; I told her, &quot;and come September you'll have an entire class of liberals!&quot;<br /><br />That's how subversive this book is.  I can see how it got a cult following and reading it is like brainwashing yourself.  Heinlein makes some great ideas that probably wouldn't work in the real world but the great thing about fiction is that you can make your ideas always come out on top.  His story of Valentine Michael Smith is a delightful satire on the world and most of it sadly still applies today.  While I wouldn't consider it his best (that honor belongs to The Moon is a Harsh Mistress, probably even more subversive, if that's possible), it's certainly an excellent novel and a watershed in the history of science-fiction.&lt;P	1997-08-15
US	52986477	R3OAQ74CXKJMNY	0446671274	353646401	Cyteen	Books	5	71	79	N	N	One of the best SF novels of all time	Cyteen.  To me, the word just sounds evil.  I don't know why, perhaps it's the way the syllables run together.  All I know is that everytime I saw the word spoken in Cherryh's other great SF novel, Downbelow Station, I couldn't help but shudder.  Perhaps it's was the coldness of the people there, or the whispered way everyone spoke about the planet, or the ranks of faceless soldiers, all the same.<br /><br />And now about this diverse world comes Cyteen, the novel.  What a novel it is, close to seven hundred pages, and Cherryh used every single page to tell this story of young friends trapped in a world of security constantly watching over their shoulder.  This book reeked paranoia in a way that would make Thomas Pynchon proud.  Friends and enemies all meld together in this novel and you can never tell which is which.<br /><br />Cherryh does a great job detailing the planet Cyteen and the society that grows up on it.  The people and culture are as diverse as (dare I say it?) Frank Herbert's Dune.  You get a feel for the government and the politics that surround everyday life, the behind the scenes stuff regular people don't know about.<br /><br />But that's not it.  Cherryh also gives us arguments on the different between the born men and the azi, the genetically created people, weaving these threads into an already idea packed story.<br /><br />Nothing Cherryh has written before or since can come even close to this book.  The only two I can think of are Downbelow Station or maybe even Forty Thousand in Gehenna (which ties into this novel).  It's a landmark of science-fiction and should be read by any who consider themselves a fan	1997-08-15
US	52986477	RUYBAVF4LIVU7	0881843865	931553433	Camp Concentration	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Quirky and fascinating	I had first heard of Thomas Disch during a special Amazing Stories magazine did on him several years ago.  In it was a new story that he had written, which I read and found actually pretty good considering he was someone I had never heard of.  After that, he slipped into the back of my mind for several years, and it was not until recently that I rediscovered him through his classic novel of military experimentation.<br /><br />Disch idea to tell the story as the journal  notes of someone who witnesses and then is given he disease is sheer brilliance.  Louis is probably the most brutally honest, funniest character to ever grace the pages of a novel and he tells his story without holding anything back.  As the reader, we see his situation get worse and worse.  At the point where he realizes that he has the disease, I could feel dread surge through my body, too.  The writing is that powerful.<br /><br />Disch shows off his imaginative skills here, creating an environment where genius equals maddness, a true play on words of the novel's title.  For such a small book, the plot is complex and riveting and I found myself unwilling to stop and go to my job just so I could finish.<br /><br />A surprise is saved for the end, and while it's a tad on the fantastic side, it also makes perfect sense in the context of the book and wraps everything up nicely.  David Pringle chose this as one of the hundred best science-fiction books of all time, and not only does it more than deserve to be on that list, it deserves to be as close to the top as possible	1997-08-14
US	52986477	R21TG4BVIL9XW2	0553560735	710568866	Red Mars (Mars Trilogy)	Books	5	8	12	N	N	The best book ever written about Mars	As readers of science-fiction, we have been treated to many novels about our famous red neighbor over the years.  Whether it be the invading conqueror of H.G. Wells' or the blood and thunder pulp of Burroughs, or even the more scienfitic approaches of Bova or Bear, Mars always seems to fascinate the human mind, holding on and never letting go.<br /><br />With that said, Red Mars is the best novel written on the subject of colonization.  Robinson must have spent years researching this novel, and it shows in every page, as every detail is correct and meticulous.  His story of a hundred colonists selected to start our next frontier is riveting, and Robinson creates rounded characters with their own hopes, fears, and quirks.  They orbit each other, loving, distrusting, hating, always moving back and forth as the years roll on.  The planet changes them in ways they could never suspect.  That's one aspect of this novel.<br /><br />As always, Earth is never far behind, and Robinson also embroils us in the politics of our world, taking our pettiness and applying it to an entire planet, more interested in the bottom line than scientific research and human exploration.  And yet, through all of this, Robinson is speaking, telling us how colonization could be done, how it should be done, in his writing that's second to none.<br /><br />Everything in this book shuffles together to create a mosiac of the future.  Red Mars is about Mars, it's about colonists, it's about humanity, about people, about hope, about dreams.  I defy anyone to get past the engrossing beginning and not want to read the novel, or to avoid taking sides during the terraforming arguments.  This novel is a classic work and remains among, if not the, best novel Kim Stanley Robinson has ever written	1997-08-13
US	52986477	R20T9T19GJFCGO	0061053589	27784955	The Bridge	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Strange and delightful	This was the first, and so far, only Banks book I have read, and it was a great place to start.  From the first page, Banks' writing reels you in with a mysterious storyline and almost lyrical prose.  The ease at which he takes something so commonplace as a bridge and turns it into something out a nightmare that perhaps showed up in the dreams of Kafka is almost frightening.  The entire novel exudes strangeness, with odd events happening and everyone taking them for granted.<br /><br />Banks dreams up a plausible culture that would live on an enormous bridge and takes us through page by page.  Given, some of the parts are extremely odd and hard to read (the parts with the monologue in Scottish come to mind), but they only add to the ultimate mystery of the book: who is John Orr and what is the Bridge?  I recommend that everyone try to figure it out.  An excellent novel	1997-08-12
US	52986477	RZHEY401MFV05	0805005218	814932512	Naked and the Dead	Books	5	7	11	N	N	The best book about war, any war!	While war is never a fun subject to read or write about, we owe it to ourselves to read as much about it as possible so we can never forget the terrors and the horrors, and the price those brave men and women pay by marching almost certainly to their deaths.  There have been a lot of books about war, from Stephen Crane's Red Badge of Courage and just about every book Hemmingway ever wrote, but I think the crowning achievement of these war novels is probably Norman Mailer's book.  Why?  Read on.<br /><br />Mailer is the first to show the grim unrelenting monotony of war in its entirety, and its length reflects that.  There are few battle scenes in The Naked and the Dead, mostly just men sitting around with little to do but think about their lives and argue with each other.  Mailer's turns of phrase are clear and concise, yet give the reader a clear pitcher of what is going on in the character's head.  The Time Machine sections are the best way to show background of a person that I've ever read.<br /><br />I've read elsewhere that the novel is actually a iconoclastic protrayal of a liberal vs. conservative argument between Hearn and Cummings but don't bother yourself with that.  Just sit down someplace comfortable and open up the best war novel ever written	1997-08-11
US	52986477	R3QJJCXR727BXW	0345404483	558041959	Three Books of Known Space	Books	5	37	39	N	N	Excellent introduction to Known Space	People interested in Larry Niven should not be reading his newer work, it is in early novels and stories like the ones portrayed here that they should start, for this is classic Niven.  The writing and ideas that made Known Space so popular is easily seen here in a fine mix of novels and stories.<br /><br />Some quick notes about the novels included herein:<br /><br />World of Ptavvs is a great first novel and clearly shows off Niven's Known Space while providing a story that is part science-fiction, part suspense thriller.  The alien is truly frightening, and the twist of having him in different bodies was great. Niven was off to a good start<br /><br />A Gift From Earth was much better than World of Ptavvs for a number of different reasons.  One, you sympathized with the main characters more, the plot was bursting with more ideas than the previous novel, and everything just seems to be better, which is how it should have been.  The one great thing about reading this collection is seeing how his writing got better and better.  And, oh yes, his next novel was a piece you might have heard of.  Anyone remember Ringwold?<br /><br />Tales of Known Space rounds out the collection, and Niven had a good idea in shuffling them in with the novels to keep everything chronological.  Most of the stories are classic science-fiction and those that aren't are still pretty decent.  This collection also adds notes by Niven and a chart along with a bibliography of everything he had written up to The Ringworld Throne, so new fans can easily figure out which books to get and where they fit in.<br /><br />So, while these novels are not exactly out of print (I know A Gift From Earth and Tales From Known Space are still available), this is still the Niven fan's best bet, whether he be new or old, to get some great science-fiction tales.  Highly recommended	1997-08-09
US	52986477	R3FQRAHEK1HUNJ	0451166760	344110456	Beyond this Horizon	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Heinlein's talent obvious in first novel	Elsewhere I had heard this rated as one of science-fiction's classics of the forties, and so, upon seeing it in the store, I figured &quot;what the heck&quot; and decided to go for it.  As usual, Heinlein never fails to disappoint, and this book is crammed with so many ideas that you lose count after a while.<br /><br />Heinlein made a neat twist by making the world perfect and everybody happy, and still managing to get a passable plot out of all that.  Beyond This Horizon is a nice middle ground between those who find his &quot;kiddie&quot; books like Have Spacesuit, Will Travel too simple and his more adult books like Stranger in A Strange Land and The Moon is a Harsh Mistress a little too radical.<br /><br />One thing I find interesting, as a little aside, is that when publishers right copy for the summary's on the back of his novels, they often neglect the best parts of the book.  On Have Spacesuit, Will Travel, it makes great mention of the pirates, but nothing at all of the trial of Earth that came later and took up a good portion of the book.  It's the same case here, with all the focus on the revolt of the Survivor's Club, which is resolved about the middle of the book, and nothing on the issues that are discussed later.  The point is here, when looking at a Heinlein book, or any book, don't always go by what the back cover says.<br /><br />Just another public service announcement.  But, seriously, this was a  great book.  Read it	1997-08-06
US	52986477	R3KQ93N40B9PG2	055357292X	804648943	Heavy Weather	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Strong concept and interesting ideas make this a good one	Several months after reading this book, my brother put the movie &quot;Twister&quot; on, and having seen it before, he tried to get me to watch it, claiming all sorts of good things about it.  Well, I hung around for a few minutes, so as not to be rude, but immediately upon seeing it, the first thing that hit my mind was &quot;Hey, this is a rip off of Bruce Sterling's Heavy Weather!&quot;  And while I'm sure the makers of &quot;Twister&quot; had no intention of emulating Sterling's novel, the similarities are very striking.<br /><br />Still, the sad fact remains that Heavy Weather did the topic first, better, and pulled it off with more ease and ideas.  But this isn't a comparsion review, so let's forget &quot;Twister&quot; and talk about Heavy Weather.  With this book, it appears that Sterling breaks away from the cyberpunk roots of Gibson and others, but at the same time he remains true to those same routes.<br /><br />Heavy Weather does not have computers, or people fighting the huge Man who is trying to keep the little guy down using only their knowledge and wits.  There are elements of that, of course, but Sterling tries to convey something different here, a sense of the weather as a force.  Computer, they are constructed by men, and we can understand them.  Who can understand the weather?  And that is the main pursuit of the Storm Troupe, to understand, explain, and comprehend, all while having a little fun at the same time.<br /><br />Sterling should be congratulated on such a fine book that clearly was ahead of its time, seeing the success of &quot;Twister&quot; a few years later (oops I said I wasn't going to compare.  Oh, well).  It ranks among his finest	1997-08-05
US	52986477	R26ZDZJPACXHB1	0345311485	12581581	On the Beach	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Still frightening almost forty years later	I mostly picked up this book because I thought it was science-fiction.  I had heard of the movie, but it was a little before my time and besides, I heard it wasn't that good anyway.  So, I picked up this book, opened it to read and found myself captured by something more realistic than anything than science-fiction could ever create.<br /><br />I, for one, am far too young to remember the days of the Cold War, when the threat of nuclear disaster hung over our parents' heads like a grim spectre.  But upon reading this book, I found a sick feeling beginning to form in my gut, an old fear, perhaps a memory of those gone before.  I got the sense that this still could happen, and I read faster, with growing intensity.<br /><br />On the Beach grabs you and never lets go, even beyond the end.  The characters, all detailed, could be someone living next door to you, and the way they go through their motions, even as they know the rain is heading nearer and nearer is frightening and all too human.  The tone of the novel, the narration, is calm, resigned, as if the narrator has come to grips with his fate, even if the characters haven't yet.<br /><br />There is no hope in this book.  As a science-fiction reader, I am accostumed to last second saves and plot twists from nowhere, but even as I got closer and closer to the end I realized with foul certainity that there was no surviving.  But the people, they don't struggle, they merely make plans for things that will never be done, not looking for a way out, because there is none.<br /><br />Nevil Shute is not a literary writer like Pynchon or Joyce or Gaddis, and his prose is not lyrical, but it is always calm, uncluttered, the exact meaning never failing to reach you.  This was easily the most powerful novel I have ever read and when I closed it, I shut it with a shudder, emerging finally from the dark world of a nuclear winter.<br /><br />Still as true today as forty years ago, everyone should read this book and perhaps learn something from it.  Before it's too lateBefore it's too late	1997-08-05
US	52986477	R31M20VOJYW2Q8	0440170370	900157828	Player Piano	Books	5	49	51	N	N	Vonnegut's first a good indication for later	A lot of people, even Vonnegut fans, probably haven't heard of this book, for whatever reasons.  Vonnegut really doesn't discuss it that much, mostly because he dislikes the label of science-fiction, which this book, along with The Sirens of Titan and even Slaughterhouse-Five, clearly is.<br /><br />Still, this book is a must for Vonnegut fans or even those interested in old science-fiction in the style of Orwell or Huxley.  Those looking for Vonnegut's classic deadpan black humorist style won't find it here.  The beginnings of it are here, however and Vonnegut's tale of Paul Proteus' rebellion against the oppressive government is still as entertaining and fascinating as it was years ago.  Read with the aforementioned 1984 and Brave New World, this book provides a slight contrast by using a different tone and more humor, but the message is still the same, that technology will ruin us all and bring about our ultimate downfall.<br /><br />Fortunately this book has been reissued so that fans can see how Vonnegut started out, and fortunately, unlike most writers' first novels, Vonnegut's initial effort is just as readable as his later works	1997-08-02
US	52986477	R2S1OHQYA9HN22	0345324412	797995088	Have Space Suit, Will Travel	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Fun, but not technical	Let's get this straight right off the bat.  This is not one of Heinlein's most radical books, it is not brimming with abstract speculation on the human condition and how our current paths shall take us only to ruin and destruction.  There is no future prediction, no hard science showcasing something new and possible.  It is merely a science-fiction adventure novel.<br /><br />It is also one of the best science-fiction novels ever written.  While it may not have all that was stated above, it does have one thing: humor, a brisk sense of fun, and a rapid pace that makes this book fly all too quickly.  This is one of those rare science-fiction tales that, like a good cartoon, can be easily read by a child, but there is enough to keep adults interested also.<br /><br />Also, this book is probably one of the greatest of Heinlein's wish fulfillments ever.  Kip might have to go through heck in this novel, but everything works out perfect in the end, and who wouldn't want a life like that?  Ah, the temptations of fiction!<br /><br />And, as a final aside, I think the last couple of pages is one of the most classic endings of any science-fiction novels, just on sheer wit alone.  Heinlein outdid himself on this one	1997-08-02
US	52986477	RYPW708U9S3T5	0553283685	47311872	Hyperion (Hyperion Cantos)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Fascinating mix of literature, science-fiction and horror	I love this book.  This book, along with Ender's Game, helped get me back into science-fiction, and it certainly was a great way to reenter.  I have never seen a novel that can mix so many elements so well, and pack so much while still keeping it fascinating.<br /><br />I tried to impress my English teacher with this book by showing her how it tied into Chaucer's The Canterbury Tales, but she didn't buy it, not being a science-fiction fan.  She didn't know what she was missing.  Not only does Hyperion echo the Canterbury Tales (the quote at the end of the Prologue is the end of the Old English Canterbury Tales' Prologue), but Simmons also manages to weave the life of poet John Keats (the name of the book is from his unfinished poem).  I have never seen a novel that derives so much from literature, and not even contemporary literature at that.<br /><br />The plot.  Wow.  That's all I can say.  I don't anybody can do justice to the plot by summerizing it, only by reading it can you fully appreciate it.  Instead, I'll mention that I love Simmons' writing.  His style is full of detail, sometimes seeming to literally describe everything, but always flows brilliantly, until the reader suddenly realizes they have a hundred pages in the course of an hour and never even gave a though to the passage of time.<br /><br />So, throw in all that described above, some classic science-fiction moments (I love the scene where they realize the tree is travelling backwards and is thus in their future.  And some of them are on it), and the wealth of a totally new universe, a reader does not have to look anywhere else to find one of the greatest science-fiction novels of at least the eighties and possibly all time.<br /><br />Oh, yeah, know what the best thing is: it doesn't end!  There's a sequel!  All right!  Bring it on, Dan Simmons is the master	1997-07-31
US	52986477	R1XZHK2G4YYAX2	0312890362	63160212	The Wild Shore: Three Californias (Wild Shore Triptych)	Books	5	21	22	N	N	Robinson shows great talen with first novel	Talk about bad luck.  It was the year 1984 and science-fiction was booming once again, with authors such as Gibson, Banks, May, and Robinson coming to the forefront.  Leading this pack was Kim Stanley Robinson, who published three books that year, all of which were acclaimed.  Probably the most acclaimed was The Wild Shore, with looked to be the sure win for the Nebula awards that year and possibly the Hugo.  However it came in second place, with William Gibson's Neuromancer taking the Hugo, Nebula and Philip K. Dick award for that year.  Figures.<br /><br />Excepting the fact that Gibson's novel protrayed a whole world that has only be touched upon briefly by other science-fiction writers, Kim Stanley Robinson's book is by far the superior one.  It is a coming of age tale of a young man trying to survive in an America that has been torn apart by attacks from other countries.  Told in the first person, Robinson vividly shows his beloved homeland of Orange County and its people as they struggle with life, never complaining, just going on as they had for years before and would for years after.<br /><br />Upon reading it, it is hard for one to realize that one is reading a first novel.  The Wild Shore reads better than some veteran writers' books, and the plot is never complex, the words stringing after each other in Robinson's distinct style.  The last page has some of the best lines ever written in a novel and will remain with readers long after they finish the book.<br /><br />Wait a minute.  Great plot, fascinating characters, the depiction of a realistic future world . . . why didn't this book win?<br /><br />Talk about bad luck	1997-07-30
US	52986477	RMVXYN10B0HA	0671720260	946394457	Sixth Column	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Give Thanks to the God Mota!	I didn't know what to expect when picking up this Heinlein book.  I had heard it deemed a classic of the 1940's, but they were fifty years ago and I had slight doubts as to the relevancy of the tale, especially looking at the odd cover of the man in robes.  I wondered to myself: What could this possibly have to do with the PanAsians taking over America?<br /><br />I shouldn't have doubted.  One thing Heinlein never does is disappoint and this novel sparkles with the ideas and imagination that has become his trademark.  I don't recall any other novel that has people faking a religion to get back at their conquerors and I don't think anyone has ever done it with the flair for humor, wittiness, or creativity that Heinlein was the master at.<br /><br />A short novel and a light read, but if you're looking for something enjoyable but not lengthy this is exactly the book you want	1997-07-29
US	52986477	R2WO7GXQ0PQ3EN	0312863551	562507215	The Moon Is a Harsh Mistress	Books	5	1	2	N	N	One of Heinlein's best	This was the last of his Hugo award winners that I read, and I certainly wound up saving the best for last.  In this novel, Heinlein takes all the ideas and lessons and philosophies that he espoused in the previous novels and mixes them all together here.  More than Stranger in a Strange Land, I think this has more of an effect on the average reader, since the ideas are more concrete and more vividly portrayed.<br /><br />His moon is probably one of the best detailed societies in science-fiction and was clearly the motivation for John Varley's Steel Beach.  Each person is a different personality, with the narration, Manuel telling it all in a strange slang (I assume it's Russian) that takes a wild to get into, but once understood flows quite nicely.<br /><br />A must for any science-fiction fan and required reading for Heinlein fans, The Moon is a Harsh Mistress does not disappoint	1997-07-29
US	52986477	RZ7UAGHH2YZIL	0919359108	68400889	Melmoth (Cerebus, Volume 6)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Sim at his talented best	Dave Sim certainly took a risk pushing Cerebus off to the side during this story and the previous Jaka's Story, but I think it worked out for the best because it allowed him to explore other means of narration and art.<br /><br />Every part of Melmoth is perfect, from the opening scenes with the Roach, to the gripping finale.  The first gaunt shot of Oscar stepping from the shadows is priceless, and Sim and Gerhard create new levels of creativity by melding their two artforms together<br /><br />Even though the narration is taken from actual letters, the pace is still suspenseful, even though the reader knows Oscar is going to die.  But above all, Sim's story is about life and people doing what they do normally, and he showcases it all brilliantly.  This is possibly one of the finest comic works ever written, ranking up with Sim's previous Jaka's Story, Moore's Watchmen and Miller's Dark Knight Returns	1997-07-26
US	52986477	R3QWGHC592CZ0V	0919359124	114990086	Jaka's Story (Cerebus, Volume 5)	Books	5	9	11	N	N	Combination of story and art make this one of Sim's best	While many people I'm sure enjoyed the huge storylines that both preceded and came after Jaka's Story, I think that this is probably the best that Dave Sim has ever written.  Mind you, I loved Church and State, especially toward the middle and end when Gerhard's imput became more apparent, but the length of the storyline and the widely varying artwork due to sixty issues worth of practice made it a tad uneven at times.<br /><br />Sim made the right choice in choosing to shuffle Cerebus off to the side for Jaka's Story and deciding to tell a story of real people facing everyday problems with only themselves and each other to rely on.  Every piece of this story is a joy to behold, from the brilliant mixing of Sim's character drawing (he does great facial expressions and awesome dialects to boot), with  Gerhard's backgrounds (how does he draw all those lines), to the text pieces that finally show Sim's ability to turn a phrase and not a little of his influence from Oscar Wilde.<br /><br />The text pieces contrasting Jaka's rich life in Palnu to her current struggling dancing career are probably some of the best parts, for here we see Dave Sim's writing by itself, something we had only previously experienced in the introductions to the paperbacks.<br /><br />Sim guides us through the story with a master's precision, making us care more and more about the characters, so when he finally drops the bombshell, it is quite a shock to the reader.  The scenes in prison were unnerving and a little unsettling (makes one wonder when Sim ever spent time in jail).  The end confrontation with Mrs. Thatcher, who is possibly the most unassumingly evil person I've ever seen, hits you like a punch in the gut for sheer emotional impact.  After reading Jaka's Story, I didn't feel the least bit sorry for Mrs. Thatcher after watching what Cerebus did to her later in &quot;Guys&quot;.<br /><br />Sim has created a true classic that can be read by Cerebus fans and non-Cerebus fans, and even those who do not frequent the world of comics.  It is a work on a literary scale that will be around for years to comeequent the world of comics.  It is a work on a literary scale that will be around for years to come	1997-07-24
US	52986477	R8OMIFLHJARDQ	0886774314	137588323	Downbelow Station (Alliance-Union Universe)	Books	5	54	58	N	N	Lengthy but satisfying	I had read about C.J. Cherryh's massive Alliance-Union series in a science-fiction encyclopedia and wanted to find a good place to start.  The encyclopedia suggested what it considered her two best books, Downbelow Station and Cyteen.  As it turned out I could find neither of them immediately, but I kept the two in the back of my mind over the months as I shopped.  And, one day, while searching through a bookstore, I found to my pleasant surprise that the publisher had released a new edition of the novel, which I quickly snapped up and read.<br /><br />Now, to the actual novel.  Since I had no prior knowledge of any other Cherryh book, I just held my breath and dove right in.  Fortunately, Cherryh does not bog you down in continuity, giving you all the pertinent information right in the first chapter, thus absolving the reader of any feeling that they are missing something that happened previously.  The story is an excellent thriller, highlighting a wondrous cast of characters, and giving them a genuine disaster to overcome, allowing the reader to see exactly what makes each character tick as things fall further and further apart.  Throw in an interstellar war and numerous subplots and you have probably the finest science-fiction novel on the subject, though its length may daunt less dedicated readers.  Still, it remains one of Cherryh's finest works, even today, almost twenty years later	1997-07-23
US	52986477	R238ZE4VXPRODN	0919359078	707095326	High Society (Cerebus, Volume 2)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Aardvark facade hide intelligent, mature storyline	I could have bought this book for the cover alone.  The shot of the Regency hotel, rendered with about a zillion lines by background artist Gerhard, still gives me this sense of awe when I stare at it.  Fortunately this story offers so much more than pretty pictures.  Hidden within the framework of a fantasy setting is a scathing portrayal of government, all acted out by a cast only Dave Sim could create, from the unique Cerebus to the impossible Lord Julius.  This is Dave Sim in high form and though the art is not his best (it appears that most of the story takes place in the dark, since there are few backgrounds), his writing is a deft as always.  The serious parts are serious and the amusing parts are absolutely hilarious and the ending wraps it all up neatly while still paving the way for &quot;Church and State&quot;.  This book set the tone for the series and pointed the way for the ambitious tales that were to come later	1997-07-23
US	52986477	RNM34H01IW1OD	0140188592	468027632	Gravity's Rainbow (Classic, 20th-Century, Penguin)	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Sheer poetic brillance	Thomas Pynchon can be considered one of the greatest novelists of the 20th century for this book alone.  The extreme scope of the book, the huge (nearly four hundred characters!) cast, coupled with Pynchon's unsurpassed ability to go from thought-provoking comments on humanity and its state of decline to hilarious slapstick make this a difficult but satisfying and eye-opening read.  Anybody interested at all in contemporary literature owes it to themselves to pick up this book and read it.  You won't be sorry	1997-07-21
US	52986477	R3KEE01CX2A1KD	0930289234	777411096	Watchmen	Books	5	0	2	N	N	Who Watches the Watchmen?  Everyone should be!!	Probably hands down the greatest novel of all time, Watchmen managed to do what few others, if no others, books have ever accomplished: combined intelligent storytelling with powerful artwork to make this a story truly for all the senses.  Both beautifully complement each other, embellishing the story and taking the novel to another level entirely.  I've read it about ten times and each time I still find myself moved, shocked, impressed and always coming away satisified.  Truly a great novel	1997-07-21
US	52986477	R4WFBGQ67MLE	0819562998	433261893	Dhalgren	Books	5	4	6	N	N	Ranks among the greatest novels of all time	When I opened Dhalgren, I really had no clue what to expect.  I mean, the novel begins with the fragment of the end of a sentence, which I found extremely unorthodox.  Still, I gave Delany the benefit of the doubt and figured it would all serve a purpose.  Well, I was pleased to find myself enjoying and savoring this rich, fully detailed novel, which seems to transcend the genre and rightfully take its place among the greatest literary novels of this century.  While I may not have understood the purpose for everything Delany inserted into the novel, that's more my fault than his and I could at least appreicate it.  Many people would probably find this novel offensive, but I found nothing to warrent that and besides, didn't they call Joyce's Ulysses obscene also?  That's a good company of offensive to be in.  People owe it to themselves to buy this novel, borrow it from a friend, or get it from their local library, so they can sit down and read this fascinating novel	1997-07-21
