US	52988759	R29Z51BUBBGHEJ	0345417623	786105285	Timeline	Books	2	6	6	N	N	Good story idea, awful execution.	As a Michael Crichton fan, I found this book disappointing. The fundamental ideas underlying the plot were good and Crichton takes pains to make the quantum concepts reasonably clear (though in simplifying them he skips over a lot of details that don't quite jell with his plot!). I also found the glimpses of feudal life in the middle ages to be fascinating. For all that however, the plot development never quite takes off and a very large number of situations in the novel seem to be contrived rather than flowing with the storyline. As other reviewers have commented, this is closer to a movie outline than a book and there are contradictions galore. Excusable perhaps from a new author but not from Crichton. Two stars for the initial idea, but that is all.	2004-04-15
US	52988759	R3L3SYJ9YZXK16	0395193958	669379389	The Lord of the Rings	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Simply, one of the greatest books ever written.	I first read Lord of the Rings just over 20 years ago. It took me close to a week of obsessive reading - I barely stopped to eat and slept only when I could stay awake no longer. As I turned the last page, I was overwhelmed with a feeling of envy that only a booklover would understand - envy of the people who had not yet read this work, and who could look forward to reading it for the first time. Since then, I have re-read it several times and if ever I am marooned on the stereotyped desert island, this is the book I would want most of all. I have long hesitated to review this opus - how could I possibly do it justice?<br />The storyline is too well known by now to need any repetition. What impressed me were two major features. One, the sheer scale of the epic. Tolkien did not just write a story, he literally created a universe and populated it with peoples of various kinds, each with their own history, culture, language, customs and tradition. Yet the epic is internally and externally consistent, like a huge carpet or tapestry, covered with multiple themes and motifs, yet all fitting seamlessly into the overall pattern. I was, and continue to be in awe at his mastery of the complexity and detail of his universe. Second, the sheer beauty of his writing. Rarely today does one come across writing that is both prose and poetry combined (and I don't mean just the songs in the book). Whether it be dialog or description, history or geography, Tolkien's writing is filled with melody and harmony - not a single word is out of place. Now add in the storyline, a masterpiece of depth, width and color, a blend of commonplace daily life shaken by terror and fear, sparkling with emotion and building always with hope to the climax. We will probably never see the like of this again. Do also read the Silmarillion and the Hobbit; the former in particular will add to your appreciation of the Lord of the Rings.<br />The Leatherette Edition, with high quality binding and an excellent fold-out map multiplies the pleasure of reading. A wonderful gift to give or receive, and to keep in a place of pride on your bookshelf.d-out map multiplies the pleasure of reading. A wonderful gift to give or receive, and to keep in a place of pride on your bookshelf.	2004-01-29
US	52988759	R2OOH60PSFWACF	0765306298	407069479	New Spring: The Novel (Wheel of Time)	Books	2	224	288	N	N	The story isn�t moving forward, we my as well look back!	I found myself in two minds while reading New Spring. After waiting so long to reach the end of the series, it was annoying to find RJ has been working on a prequel instead!! At the same time, I liked reading about Moiraine and Siuan as Accepted and the testing for the shawl. Of course the final third of the book describing how Lan becomes Moiraine's warder is largely unchanged from the short story in Legends so that adds nothing new. There are flashes aplenty of the RJ we saw in the first 5 WOT books and I do wish he had spent more time on the Aiel war (yes, I know, the story has to start somewhere after all!) and perhaps some discussion between the Accepted on their preferred Ajah. I look forward to reading in the next two prequels of Siuan's ascent to the Amyrlin Seat and how the search for the Dragon shifts to the Two Rivers. Since the story clearly isn't moving forward very much, we may as well look back!!!<br />Otherwise, my WOT cribs still apply. The clichéd mannerisms appear in full force and the same pathetic excuse for a map appears again, leaving the reader trying hard to precisely locate the action (the position of the Hook? East of the Erinin and Tar Valon of course, but beyond that, keep guessing). But that is OK. Since RJ is on his own trip and unconcerned about his readers, I now read his books through the County Library and decline to buy them. He has every right to write the way he likes, and I have the choice to buy, or not.	2004-01-28
US	52988759	R3VX90Z5PC2N3F	0385504209	315416156	The Da Vinci Code	Books	5	0	1	N	N	An entertaining read with lots of interesting information	I have so far read 4 of Dan Brown's books (Angel & Demons, DaVinci Code, Deception Point & Digital Fortress) and three features of his writings stand out. First, audacious plotlines; Brown does not believe in small measures but goes out on a limb-  heck, this guy re-defines audacity! The plotlines are way over the top but have just that crucial amount of credibility to draw in a reader, even when he knows it is fiction. Second, the pace is mercilessly quick; the entire plot of the book plays out over a few days at most. Last but for me the best of all, his books have a wealth of esoteric information that one would not normally read about. I found myself enthralled by a never ending series of factoids that had me rushing to the Internet for explanation or elaboration. I like books that teach me something new, or even give me a new perspective on something I already know, and Dan Brown manages this easily.<br />DaVinci Code for my money is his best effort till date and it features all the above 3 characteristics. The mysterious death (and its perplexing manner) of a respected Louvre curator sets symbologist Robert Langdon and cryptographer Sophie Neveu (also the curator's granddaughter) on a quest whose twists and turns are guided by a series of cryptic clues. To reach their journey's quest, Langdon and Neveu have to solve the puzzles using history, language and ingenuity, while hard on their heels follows the killer, a misguided monk. I was totally enthralled in the cracking of the various codes, spiced up by Brown's customary dose of history and intrigue, art and artists.<br />I found the book absolutely fascinating. There have been complains that the book is anti-Catholic and about the accuracy of Brown's research. I am not qualified to comment on the research accuracy and while the Catholic Church does not exactly come off smelling of roses, well, this is classified as a work of fiction after all. Don't take it too seriously people, lighten up! This is not a research thesis but a novel. If it sets you thinking, fine, but mainly, it is an entertaining read with lots of interesting information, much (though not all of it) true.  Highly recommended.earch thesis but a novel. If it sets you thinking, fine, but mainly, it is an entertaining read with lots of interesting information, much (though not all of it) true.  Highly recommended.	2004-01-22
US	52988759	R31TPJUUA4DNI2	0743486226	141370518	Angels & Demons	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Audacious plot, interesting information - Highly Recommended	I have so far read 4 of Dan Brown's books (Angel &amp; Demons, DaVinci Code, Deception Point &amp; Digital Fortress) and three features of his writings stand out. First, audacious plotlines; Brown does not believe in small measures but goes out on a limb-  heck, this guy re-defines audacity! The plotlines are way over the top but have just that crucial amount of credibility to draw in a reader, even when he knows it is fiction. Second, the pace is mercilessly quick; the entire plot of the book plays out over a few days at most. Last but for me the best of all, his books have a wealth of esoteric information that one would not normally read about. I found myself enthralled by a never ending series of factoids that had me rushing to the Internet for explanation or elaboration. Since the book has no real illustrations and a pathetic \\"map\\", I also used the internet to see images of the various landmarks that feature in the plot and their historical background and found the exercise enthralling. <br />Angels &amp; Demons follows the above lines. Take a look at the audacity first - a plot that combines the Vatican (in the middle of a Papal election), CERN, and ancient brotherhood helped by a modern-day terrorist, a Harvard professor, anti-matter! I don't recall ever seeing a plotline with such a combination of ancient history, religious cults, religion, particle physics and killing! Picture a juggler managing about 10 different balls at the same time and you get an idea of it all. Yet Brown manages to keep the links between the various plotlines almost seamless. I am not going to even try to summarize the storyline - read the editorial summaries for that. Suffice it to say that putting it down before finishing is not an option!<br />I found the book absolutely fascinating. Sure it has weak points : Brown's ability to write about science could do with improvement and some of his concepts (Mach 15 etc) sound implausible. The ending too was just that bit over-cute, almost apocalyptic. Maybe Brown tired, and wanted to solve the whole puzzle in one cataclysmic event or to be fair, perhaps the sheer pace and complexity was just too hard to close out properly. But the good points far outweigh the bad. The history of the Illuminati, the various works of art that play key parts in the story, the dialog between religion and science - all these make this book a great read. Highly recommended.	2004-01-21
US	52988759	R26GMTXKU7TEHK	031218087X	201960968	Digital Fortress	Books	3	89	113	N	N	A good weekend read when you want to kill time	I have so far read 4 of Dan Brown's books (Angel &amp; Demons, DaVinci Code, Deception Point &amp; Digital Fortress) and three features of his writings stand out. First, audacious plotlines; Brown does not believe in small measures but goes out on a limb. The plotlines are way over the top but have just that crucial amount of credibility to draw in a reader, even when he knows it is fiction. Second, the pace is mercilessly quick; the entire plot of the book plays out over a few days at most. Last but for me the best of all, his books have a wealth of esoteric information that one would not normally read about. I found myself enthralled by a never ending series of factoids that had me rushing to the Internet for explanation or elaboration. <BR>Digital Fortress follows the above lines. A quick capsule : Set with a cryptographic background, it describes a battle of wits between a governmental agency focused on breaking codes (used by good and bad guys alike in order to forestall terrorism) with a former employee who passionately believes in individual privacy. In a rapid-fire series of thrust and counter-thrust, the action cuts between Washington and Madrid with the standard does of blood, explosions and romance. Unlike Brown's other novels, this is very undemanding of a reader's intelligence - the average reader will see the signposts well before the protagonists themselves. <BR>Sadly, there are flaws aplenty that seriously impact the plot credibility. Apart from the likelihood of an amateur professor being used as a proxy agent, the ease of the bypassing of the Gauntlet anti-virus software, particularly when Gauntlet safeguards not only TRANSLTR but also the databank is simply not possible. In such a situation there would be multiple layers of safeguards, not just a single bypass attributable to a single individual no matter how senior. More to the point, having raised the whole issue of individual privacy vis--vis governmental oversight, Brown never follows throughon the implications. A pity, as this is of key topical importance as well.<BR>Nevertheless, this is a good weekend read when you want to just enjoy a story and not get too caught up in the process. Three stars for that, with a star each subtracted for the plot credibility lapses and inadequate research.	2004-01-19
US	52988759	RQUQDGVUSJFTG	0743490304	315416156	Deception Point	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Engrossing and loaded with interesting tidbits	I have so far read 3 of Dan Brown's books (Angel & Demons, DaVinci Code and Deception Point) and three features of his writings stand out. First, audacious plotlines; Brown does not believe in small measures but goes out on a limb. The plotlines are over the top but have just that crucial amount of credibility to draw in a reader, even when he knows it is fiction. Second, the pace is mercilessly quick; the entire plot of the book plays out over a few days at most. Last but for me the best of all, his books have a wealth of esoteric information that one would not normally read about. I found myself enthralled by a never ending series of factoids that had me rushing to the Internet for explanation or elaboration.<br />Deception Point is faithful to the above. Set in the midst of the political intrigues of an American presidential campaign, filled with all the stereotypes of corporate fat cats, sex, money and the works, Brown segues brilliantly between the frigid Arctic and mainland USA, from high-tech weaponry and devices to scientific theorizing. An apparent discovery of evidence of extra-terrestrial life seems set to decide the election campaign when disturbing evidence begins to emerge that the \\"find\\" may well be one of the biggest frauds of history. In a race to find the truth, the action moves seamlessly from the Arctic to Washington, to the Atlantic Ocean. It is not hard to identify the villain though and Brown makes little attempt to draw us off track.<br />Brown's characters seem hurriedly sketched to the point of being cardboard cutouts and his endeavor to add a dash of romance is so scripted as to be unbelievable. Yet, this is a good book for all that, engrossing, hard to put down and loaded with interesting tidbits.	2004-01-03
US	52988759	R1DBY7RGPXNZ4I	0312924607	374023317	Lazarus (Vatican, Book 3)	Books	5	20	21	N	N	This is a book to read and think about.	Morris West's Lazarus is a cri de coeur in more ways than one. On a basic level, West has parlayed his own experience with life-saving cardiac surgery (and its impact on his life) into come up with an amazingly realistic account of the same transformation experienced by the Pope. On a deeper level, it is West's own plea for his beloved Catholic Church to break its self-imposed shackles of bureaucracy, rigid attitude and mechanistic rules and return to the basic metaphor of its founder : a shepherd caring for his flock of sheep. <br />This has been a consistent thrust of Morris West's writings, born out of his own experiences :  a theme that is of course highly divisive. Many (like myself, admittedly) Catholics who considered the Second Vatican Council to be a long delayed awakening for the hierarchy, and the subsequent papal policies as a betrayal of the Council, will doubtless find ourselves in full agreement. I recognize at the same time that many persons of goodwill consider the Council as a step too far and view the retrenchments since then as advancements. <br />The Pope Leo of the book is not John Paul II of course, but his fundamental character is not far different. West envisages Leo as the stereotyped Curial bureaucrat who becomes a priest more from family expectations than any real calling, rises through the ranks and finds himself Pope with no real vision for the Church beyond the classical bureaucrat's respect for authority and rules. With this background, he (in all sincerity no doubt) rules with an iron hand, brooking no dissent and heedless of the human cost of his policies. Faced suddenly with the possibility of death, and applying the surgery as a metaphor for resurrection (like the Lazarus of the New Testament), Leo finds himself questioning the methods he has used and the contrary results of these methods. Pushing him, in facile counter-point, is the aged Cardinal Drexel who in experiencing the love of a foster family has been able to discern thewithering of the Church and the yawning chasm between the hierarchy and the laity.<br />The storyline is thin, in fact it is clearly contrived by West to suit his line of argument, with the result that just about every stereotype finds a place. He does succeed in making his plaint however. How likely is such a situation? I wonder. The larger an organization (or a faith) grows, the more inevitable the need for sets of rules and procedures and we cannot return to the simplicity of earlier days, no matter how attractive they may appear. It is enough that West succeeds in making the reader participate in the debate, no matter which side of the argument. I highly recommend this book, irrespective of your stand on the questions, this is a book to read and think about.	2003-10-11
US	52988759	R1CH3JWZN4MJYE	0553093096	699852280	Kingdoms of the Wall	Books	5	19	20	N	N	A great work by a great author.	Like an ancient palimpsest, this is a book with layers of meaning. Picture a planet whose physical features are dominated by a single tremendously massive mountain peak with attendant foot-hills. At the foot of the mountain are clustered numerous villages, each with defined strata of clans and guild-like rankings. The people of the villages revere an ancient ancestor who is believed to have scaled the mountain and at its peak met with and received gifts from the Gods that enabled him to kick-start \\"human\\" civilization. Every year in commemoration, each village sends a team of chosen Pilgrims to replicate his climb. Few have returned from this pilgrimage and none of those few returnees has retained his or her sanity. <br />To be selected as one of the Pilgrims is a sought-after honor that most of the village children aspire to. The story follows one team of Pilgrims through the words of Poilar Crookleg, its leader. Silverberg takes us through the culling of the Pilgrims from the pool of applicants (a process that first causes Poilar to begin questioning some of his beliefs) and on to the actual climb. On its trek, the team of Pilgrims must surmount numerous hazards ranging from the violent to the beguiling. Many are the temptations to turn aside and leave the Pilgrimage; the growing hardships, the lure of sirens, the seductive hypnosis of the Kavnalla, the bliss of eternal youth. These are well described indeed, in their allure and their horror, and I initially thought Silverberg was spinning an allegorical rite of passage.<br />The culmination of the Pilgrimage however shatters the Pilgrims (through the reader sees it coming well beforehand). I do not wish to spoil the pleasure of readers so I will only say that Silverberg makes us feel the loss of moorings and direction experienced by the Pilgrims when they learn that their entire life has been given to a fable. A great work by a great author.	2003-08-16
US	52988759	RUOG7TZQCA5NQ	0761122745	517932958	Non Campus Mentis: World History According to College Students	Books	4	1	1	N	N	It is impossible to read this book with a straight face!	This book is a laugh-riot from start to finish. Essentially a compendium of errors made by college students in their exams / test papers, it includes numerous gems of mis-spelling, inadvertent plays on names, unintended innuendos, timeline rearrangements and frequently just plain imagination gone wild. It probably helps if the reader is no slouch at history but I suspect much of the material can generate mirth even from those with little pretensions to historical expertise. The authors have helpfully followed a chronological timeline in arranging their material and the book progresses from the \\"Stoned Age\\" to the modern world. Fair warning : it is almost impossible to read this book with a straight face and without laughing out loud, and hence reading it in public is likely to case your fellow travelers on the bus or train to seriously doubt your sanity. An excellent pick-me-up or cure for a blue mood.	2003-08-16
US	52988759	R2SRO8RVEE7VFU	0312042817	116212013	Clowns of God	Books	5	82	84	N	N	Perhaps the best of Morris West's books.	Now and then, I come across a book that moves me. Not just with its story or language but with the emotions it can generate in me. Clowns of God is one such. Perhaps the setting is somewhat dated now, with geopolitical alliances totally re-arranged. However, when I first read it back in the 1980s, the kind of doomsday scenario it pointed to was not all that far-fetched. Many who lived through the Cold War will remember the impotent fear caused by the insanity of \\"Mutual Assured Destruction - MAD\\" theories. <br />Set in the heart of the Catholic Church, the book unfortunately loses some of its strength when read by those of other faiths. Sad but inevitable as the theological underpinnings are key to the story. In brief, as the Western World (NATO) and the Communist World (Warsaw Pact) contend for supremacy, a grain famine in the (then) Soviet Union gives the West a trump card that can be used to befriend or to destroy. And the temptation in the minds of the zealots (yes, they are there in every country and of every persuasion) towards destructive use is strong indeed. Into this precariously balanced trapeze act comes a wild card in the form of the reigning Pope. Firm in the belief that he has been granted a vision from God of the end of the world and commanded to preach accordingly, he faces the resistance of vested interests. Stripped of his papacy by the frightened hierarchy, he wanders into the world, searching for a sign that he is right and learning lessons from friends and acquaintances. <br />Odd as it may seem, the story, for all its sobering possibility is ultimately secondary. Morris is a master not only at prose but at creating characters that are fundamentally and recognizably human, with faults and frailties that accent their greatness. The picture he paints of big power games as the world hurtles towards a precipice is scary indeed. What remains in the mind however (and in my opinion form the best part of this book) are the letters written to God, age old questions that we all want to ask and whose answers we have a tough time finding. I cannot recommend this book highly enough. Even a reader who is unfamiliar with Christian theology and who professes another faith will appreciate the questions that this book raises.	2003-08-16
US	52988759	R3694LG1MDMF5F	1568491468	430475969	The Shoes of the Fisherman	Books	5	44	46	N	N	One of West's best works	Morris West is one of those rare authors who can conjure up an excellent book from minimal material. A lot of his works centers around (or is linked with) the Catholic church of which he is an excellent and compassionate portrayer, even when he is being critical.<br />Shoes of the Fisherman, one of his best, is a heart warming look at the Papacy. Starting with the esoterics of a papal election by acclamation (an unusual procedure) of Kiril Lakota, a virtual unknown, West sees the leader of the church not as the storied infallible pontiff but rather as an earnest human being, beset by his own frailties and needs as well as constrained by the inflexible traditions and bureaucracy of the Vatican. But in focusing on Lakota (and his fellows) as a human being, subject to the same weaknesses of all humanity, West makes one admire him all the more, for his willingness to carry the burden. As the head of a religious organizations that spans the seven continents and hundreds of different cultures, the pope must make huge decisions in lonely abstract while bearing in mind the ordinary man and woman who comprise the church. This is a tremendous responsibility and a near impossible task. In the process West looks at numerous sub-themes that still plague the church (though this book is sited at the peak of the Cold War), of marriage, of theology, of doctrine and of the clergy. He makes no judgments, but in painting the essential humanity of the players, West makes the institution of the church and the papacy not only more accessible to the reader, he also generates a more sympathetic understanding of both. This may not (as previous readers have remarked) be a book with a major plotline, but it is a book that, even at its darkest, maintains faith in humanity. Highly recommended, (though members of other religions may find some of the parts hard to follow).	2003-07-30
US	52988759	R36EFI9XYWJ8ZB	031230935X	702211299	Gettysburg: A Novel of the Civil War	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Surprisingly very good!	I started reading this book prepared to dislike it, based on a visceral suspicion of any hidden Confederate sympathies. I soon found I was wrong; the book by and large steers clear of any such agenda, at least overtly. This is a book that is a mix of very good and not so good.<br />Start with the good. The degree of realism in the geography and the respective troop line-ups is admirable. The authors have built the story on a sound knowledge of the actual battle as well as the local topography (I live near the area and have visited it). The addition of the hand-drawn, back-of-the-envelope maps is a nice touch and also helps the reader get a mental picture of the troop maneuvers as well (though a scale map of the area probably would help as well). I particularly liked the way the authors treated strategy and tactics. One feels almost inside the heads of the key players as they strategize and review their actions. No punches are pulled either; at various points, Yankee officers are shown accusing their Confederate counterparts (and former comrades in arms) of treachery, General Lee himself muses (if all too briefly) on the rightness, or otherwise of his choices. Most of all this book can severely depress the reader with the sheer brutality and slaughter of 19th century warfare. Line charges against fixed positions supported by artillery were frequently the norm and would result in horrendous casualties, irrespective of the outcome. The authors, to their credit, do not soften this gory aspect and their descriptions can sometimes cause total horror. In the immortal words of the French General Bosquet on the Charge of the Light Brigade at Crimea just a few years before Gettysburg, \\"c'est magnifique, mais ce n'est pas la guerre!\\" (it's magnificent, but it's not warfare). And there are a number of nice touches, for instance Col. Joshua Chamberlain the hero of Little Round Top on the Union left flank with his 20th Maine at the actual battle, now get placed as a suicide rearguard on the Corp's right flank, where a charge by Pickett's Virginians sees him meeting up with none other than Brig. Gen. Lewis Armistead, the man who reached the \\"high water mark of the Confederacy\\" at Gettysburg!<br />Now to the not so good. Alternative history must necessarily make key assumptions about what could have happened and the authors choice of assumptions here is weak i.e. General Lee, instead of the frontal assault at Gettysburg, initiates a flanking maneuver past the Union left flank, captures the Union supply base at Winchester, and forces Union General Meade to assault the Army of Northern Virginia's (ANV) strong defensive line at Union Mills, right between the Union army and Washington DC. Lee's obsession with Cemetery Ridge may have been bull-headed indeed, but time was not on his side at Gettysburg (remember he was in Northern territory with a long and vulnerable supply line). With his cavalry under Stuart playing truant, Lee had little idea of the disposition of the Army of the Potomac (AOP). Could the assumed flanking march to the left of the AOP at Gettysburg have been carried our unnoticed and free of counter-attack by Union troops? I suspect not. Particularly as the better part of the ANV would have had to march in a long column along one main road, with all the attendant gridlock and time that would entail. In fact, the key to Lee's flank movement in the book is that Meade, though warned by Buford's messenger, delays indecisively several hours for a staff meeting (in the middle of a battle!!), thus allowing the better part of the ANV to slip by his flank. Not too plausible I think.<br />In any case, in alternative history, what matters is not the outcome of a battle but the implications of it and for this we must wait for the rest of the trilogy. One can hazard some guesses though. The Union victory at Gettysburg was critical for the North, but would a defeat have been mortal? Bear in mind that Vicksburg had just fallen, ceding control ofthe Mississippi to the North and sundering the Confederacy in two, probably a more severe blow to the South than a Union loss at Gettysburg. Could Lee have threatened Washington? Doubtful. Apart from the strong defenses around Washington, the AOP while badly mauled could still threaten his rear. He was deep in enemy territory with a tangled supply line. And the North's superiority in industry, manpower and logistics continued unchallenged. It will be interesting to see what the authors come up with in the second and third volumes of the trilogy.<br />All in all, a good read: the authors have done well indeed.of the Mississippi to the North and sundering the Confederacy in two, probably a more severe blow to the South than a Union loss at Gettysburg. Could Lee have threatened Washington? Doubtful. Apart from the strong defenses around Washington, the AOP while badly mauled could still threaten his rear. He was deep in enemy territory with a tangled supply line. And the North's superiority in industry, manpower and logistics continued unchallenged. It will be interesting to see what the authors come up with in the second and third volumes of the trilogy. <br />All in all, a good read: the authors have done well indeed.	2003-07-22
US	52988759	R388ATHAUQWCOL	0743444744	522114332	Nightwings	Books	4	22	22	N	N	A book that is strange, troubling and yet inspiring.	This set of three novellas grouped into a book is a strange and haunting work whose effect lingers long. The stage is Earth far in the future, but an Earth whose pride and will have been shattered by terrible reverses. Silverberg paints a picture of the aftermath of human hubris, whereby pride and technological prowess carried to an extreme have led to the destruction of the continents of North and South America and ultimately to a \\"bankrupt\\" earth being placed in celestial \\"receivership\\". Beaten down and dispirited, humanity has been splintered in to a number of profession-specific guilds in a reversion to feudal times, with loyalty to guild superceding all other loyalties. The story is told through the experiences of a \\"Watcher\\" who has devoted his life to scanning the heavens for the approach of a long anticipated punitive invasion from a planet mortally wronged by human hubris. The book tells of the aftermath of the fateful invasion, resistance to which is rendered impossible by humanity's own divisions, let alone its reversion to a technological stone age. We follow the Watcher as, post-invasion, he seeks a new life and ultimately redemption. The topography is familiar and yet different as Silverberg plays on the names of well known cities (the holy cities of Roum and Jorslem, the romance of Perris in the nighttime). In majestic metaphor, the Watcher, after having his life's vocation rendered meaningless, delves deep into the past for lessons and finally seeks a new redemption, literally and figuratively, in a new united vision of love, tolerance and humanity. A book that is strange, troubling and yet inspiring.	2003-06-30
US	52988759	R3IT8PIQWAJVAO	1580801110	988380824	Gettysburg: You are There	Books	4	8	9	N	N	An amazing book, a fascinating read!	Having recently visited Gettysburg, I picked up Clasby's reconstruction of the fateful battle and found this to be an amazing book. Starting from the disastrous Union rout at Chancellorsville, Clasby takes us through the reasoning that led Robert Lee on his invasion of the North. In part, Lee was overly confident after repeated Confederate battlefield victories. More importantly, he was driven to desperate measures by the knowledge that Grant's Army of the Tennessee was on the point of seizing Vicksburg and sundering the Confederacy, making the ultimate outcome of the Civil War a foregone conclusion in favor of the Union. In many ways, Lee's bold drive into Maryland and Pennsylvania was strategically brilliant given his dire circumstances. This final throw of the dice was doomed however with Lee's commanders, especially J.E.B. Stuart's cavalry, letting him down at key times and Lee himself making critical errors at Gettysburg. Clasby's reconstruction of the battle, from the gathering of the forces, to the  opening skirmishes west of Gettysburg, right to the bloody climax of Pickett's fateful charge is excellently told. The heart of the book however is a series of over a dozen large computer-manipulated photographs. Starting with present-day digital photos of key battleground sites, software was used to edit out all traces of present day structures like bridges, modern roads, railway lines etc. The edited images were then populated with photographs of Union and Confederate re-enactors to simulate actual scenes of fighting. The result is startling to say the least, as one views what appear to be actual battle photographs. However the pristine condition of the green grass (almost like mowed lawns!) and the absence of blood and gore, to say nothing of torn up earth, makes the pictures resemble stylized paintings or video game imagery rather than reconstructed reality. Towards the end, I found the photographs to be more a distraction, even an annoyance, rather than an aid to understanding. In fact, Clasby would have done better to include maps of the region along with his re-telling of the battle. The only map is the battlefield tour of Gettysburg offered by the National Park Service! Civil war buffs and all who remember Abraham Lincoln's immortal words at the Gettysburg cemetery after the battle will find this book a fascinating read.	2003-06-28
US	52988759	R27UKI48P4KBXN	0151009716	858404511	Changing Planes: Stories	Books	4	12	13	N	N	A nice read: Ursula Le Guin in an unexpected mood!	Who among us has not experienced the misery of long waits at airports, trapped in a slow-moving time-warp between flights? Le Guin starts this quaint book with a horribly accurate word picture of what such a wait can be before segueing into a neat fantasy. Imagine if, just as we change airplanes on connecting flights, we could switch between different planes of existence (the pun is entirely intentional!) and discover alternate worlds? Sit back then for an enchanting ride as Le Guin lets her imagination create 16 wondrous alternate worlds which this book explores almost like a travelogue. Take the world of the Asonu, where children speak less and less as they mature, till as adults, their communication is entirely silent. The only sounds are those of nature and people going about their business - no conversation at all. (I could go for that!). Contrast that peaceful world with that of the Veksi who are always angry and quarrelsome, or the Hennbet who are either reincarnated beings or multiple personalities (or maybe both!). Even more imaginative are the long migratory cycles and courtship dances of the Ansarac (much to the disapproval of the efficient tech-specialists who try to colonize them) and the slow evolution of Mahigul. The book is not all light hearted fun however. Porridge on Islac looks at the dangers of genetic engineering. The land of Hegn, where everyone is part of the royal family and hence all attention is on the one family of commoners, neatly inverts the usual fascination for royalty, enabling Le Guin to gently skewer the monarchical concept. And Great Joy is a searing look at corporate behavioral ethics (or the lack of them). I must also credit the illustrator, Eric Beddows for some very apt images, including a couple that are startlingly reminiscent of the peerless M. C. Escher. A nice read, though very different from what one usually expects from Ursula Le Guin. (I wonder if she dreamed this one up at an airport!)	2003-06-21
US	52988759	REU3TOJF7F1CI	0786238763	804309356	In Another Country and Other Short Novels (Five Star First Edition Science Fiction and Fantasy Series)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	An excellent read.	The short novel or novella format is a favorite of Silverberg and this book showcases his skills. Novellas give the author enough scope to develop an idea without the detailed structure that a full book would require. So it is with the 4 stories in this book. First of is the title story, \\"In Another Country\\" a mark of tribute to C. L. Moore, whose works Silverberg has long admired. A time traveling tourist from the far future faces a classic dilemma. While he understands the need to be a passive bystander in the \\"past\\" lest he alter history by an inadvertent action, can he stand inactive when he knows an imminent tragedy will kill his lover? Written somewhat in parallel with Moore's classic \\"Vintage Season\\", \\"In Another Country\\" has some of Moore's Vintage Season characters playing minor roles in a nice touch. The second story, \\"The Way to Spook City\\" looks at an Earth that has been invaded by peculiar beings from space who have seized a wide swathe of the United States where they now live. The population of the earth, devastated by an ineffectual resistance to the invasion is totally ignored and left to its own devices. Shorn of the stage setting, this story is a nice probing look at emotions and relationships across species. The final two stories are very different in that they are set on distant worlds with little or no explicit link to earth. \\"They Hunt, We Seek\\" looks at a Universe with 6 races (one of them being humanity) in a balance of power, till a seventh one, vastly more powerful, is discovered by happenstance. Finally, \\"This is the Road\\" is an intriguing look at a future on a different world, where life forms of a single species have specialized to a point where each specialization is a different physical form as well as social caste; yet they all retain their species links. Faced by a common threat, 4 different life forms flee for sanctuary through a maze of perils, encountering major challenges on the way. Aside from the perils, the life forms have tosettle their own inter-se quarrels which seemed to me to be a close metaphor for our own Earth, riven by differences of race, religion and economic power, yet fundamentally one people. An excellent read.	2003-06-19
US	52988759	R3KQF191734AA5	0002217236	890589691	Running Blind	Books	5	3	3	N	N	A terrific roller coaster of a story!	Back in the 1960s and even 1970s, Desmond Bagley was easily one of the best thriller writers around. As a rule, his books tend to be short and to the point, filled with action and marked with innovative ideas. Running Blind is one of my personal favorites (actually I think it is his best work) which I suddenly stumbled upon after many years. Allan Stewart, a retired intelligence agent is suddenly forced against his will to re-join the game just to complete one final assignment. Almost immediately, he finds himself in a maze of bluffs and double-bluffs. By a mix of good fortune and rusty skills, he escapes a trap and in doing so, stumbles almost by accident on the scary possibility that a top official in British intelligence may actually be a Russian mole (remember, this is a Cold War story). Of course, he now has to settle this question one way or the other. What follows is a terrific roller coaster of a story as Stewart (accompanied by his girlfriend), the mole, the Russians (including his opposite number thirsting for revenge after Stewart had long ago shot him in a very sensitive area!), and stray CIA agents engage in a fascinating pursuit over the Icelandic landscape, culminating in a shootout at the baddies hideout that is almost \\"western\\" in nature. A very good novel indeed.	2003-06-12
US	52988759	R356AADWUKDK77	1842320149	533005858	Landslide	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Great way to fill a holiday!	Back in the 1960s and even 1970s, Desmond Bagley was easily one of the best thriller writers around. As a rule, his books tend to be short and to the point, filled with action and marked with innovative ideas. Landslide is one of my personal favorites which I suddenly stumbled upon after many years. Set in a \\"company town\\" in north America, this is a story of dominant business families and cowed townspeople which awakes when a stranger named Boyd arrives in town (Yes, you might almost say this is a classic Western novel!!). Recovering from a bad car accident and attendant amnesia, Boyd happens on the town by chance, then stays on as dim memory flickers make him realize he has been a part of it before - to what extent, his memory cannot say. In true \\"Western\\" fashion of course, the crimes are solved and he gets the beautiful girl as well. The story itself is very well told with Boyd as the narrator and the climactic collapse of the dam is every bit startling as it is educative. Great way to fill a holiday!	2003-06-09
US	52988759	R3Q08WJNE5ZEF6	0380978598	19223003	Roma Eterna	Books	2	42	49	N	N	A bold idea, disappointingly executed.	Roma Eterna is an ambitious attempt at alternate history and the base assumption is audacious indeed. What, asks Silverberg, if the Roman Empire had never really collapsed but instead endured and prospered? Silverberg proceeds to answer this question by highlighting a series of 10 historical moments in such an alternative history that could mark key turning points in such an Empire. The vignettes themselves are often absorbing and Silverberg mixes in just enough actual history to make the venture worthwhile. Human nature, one sees, remains the same irrespective of ruler or system of government. The Empire parallels with real history like the bloody purges of Robespierre and the colonial voyages that subjugated (often brutally) the Orient and the New World. For all its ponderous bureaucratic inertia and the sheer logistic barriers, the Empire is pervasive and powerful enough to crush any attempt at true democracy - brief flickers of a \\"Republic\\" which is more an oligarchy or merchant aristocracy are as far as we go. In the end, a band of Hebrews seeks to escape to another plant as the only alternative to Rome's crushing embrace.<br />Bold as this attempt at alternative history is, Silverberg strangely falters thereafter. His examination of the circumstances in each of the 10 events is disappointingly shallow and the ending in particular seems highly contrived. A map of the world using the Roman names for various countries and a parallel timeline linking the Roman dates with the AD calendar would have made things easier for the reader as well. Having read several of Silverberg's masterpieces. I expected better from him. I started reading this book as if sitting down to a delicious meal; by the end, it was as if the food had been but an illusion and my hunger remained unappeased.	2003-06-09
US	52988759	R1VRXVSGMD7E87	014024980X	247468717	The Great Railway Bazaar: By Train Through Asia	Books	4	49	51	N	N	A series of interesting vignettes.	I recently re-read Theroux's Great Railway Bazaar and immediately was awash in memories of innumerable train journeys across the length and breadth of my native India. This is an excellent read both for train lovers (whom the exotic trains Theroux rides will captivate) as well as readers who enjoy travelogues. To be fair, this is less a travelogue than a series of vignettes covering Theroux's journeys through various Asian countries. Theroux makes no attempt to develop an understanding of the cultures he travels through but is content to describe the train itself along with a handful of anecdotes about the people he meets on each leg of his journey. Fair enough, this is not after all a sociological text but a travel diary of sorts. <br />And it is in description that Theroux's strength lies. He has the ability to make an anecdote seem so real as to make the reader a part of the scene. The pace of the book varies with the stop and start of each journey and I guess every reader will prefer some parts to others. Plus of course, it is a bit jarring when one reads this book today, since the tide of history has greatly changed many of the countries Theroux traversed. Still, culture is slower to change than politics and that keeps much of the book relevant even today.	2003-06-02
US	52988759	R1M7Q1GD6YVMVS	044023722X	299088859	A Painted House	Books	4	4	4	N	N	A novel of rural America in the 1950s	I picked up Painted House at an airport to help cope with a badly delayed flight and was pleasantly surprised. This is not the usual legally oriented potboiler for which Grisham is famous. <br />Told from the viewpoint of a somewhat precocious 7 year old, Luke Chandler, Painted House is a hard yet sympathetic look at the America of the 50s. The Chandlers are a cotton farming family in rural Arkansas, battling weather and time to harvest their cotton crop. To get in the cotton before bad weather ruins the harvest, they hire itinerant Mexicans and a family of Ozark hill people. Within this bare framework, Grisham weaves a detailed picture of rural life : the strength of family ties, the central role of Sunday church, the growing impingement of the outside world through radio reports of baseball and the Korean War (where Luke's uncle is an army GI). Grisham's descriptions are excellent, for example the spreading fields of cotton and the back breaking labor they entail. In a way, this is the story of the coming of age of young Luke who not only watches pretty Tally bathing nude in the creek but also witnesses murder and violence galore. The latter in fact change his world for good as the tensions created mainly by an overly testosterone driven Ozark create division and fear in the community, particularly with the Mexican cotton pickers. Coupled with a run of farm killing weather, this is enough to drive Luke's family to the beckoning urban life and the book ends with Luke, keen and fearful in turns, anticipating his new life in the big city. <br />I do not know anything about Grisham's antecedents but this book to me sounded very much like a nostalgic reminiscence of times gone by. Whatever the background, I found it an excellent time slice of rural America of the 50s and enjoyed my read.	2003-06-01
US	52988759	R2J23ZHID4X7UM	038097858X	363331291	The Longest Way Home	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Not one of Silverberg�s best, but a good read all the same.	Silverberg's forte is science fiction and Longest Way Home (LWH) is classified as such. In essence however, it is a story of a youth coming of age, albeit on a very different planet, peopled with exotic species. The setting is somewhat of a benevolent feudal system, where the native species (several of whom possess sentience in varying degree, yet are all technologically backward) were first subjugated by colonial settlers from Earth, who in turn as they settled into pastoral somnolence (Folk), have been subjugated by a second wave of better educated and technologically superior settlers (Masters), again from Earth. The end result is a rather feudal system with large agri-business estates owned by quasi-aristocratic families of Masters and overseen by others of the same Master class, while the labor is performed by the Folk who reside in separate quarters on the estate. Inevitably, no matter that the feudalism is relatively benign, the Folk chafe under the yoke of the Masters, yearning for their lost days of freedom. In a well planned revolt on a continent of the planet, the Folk of various estates rise up, destroying their overlords. In the midst of the uprising is trapped Joseph, an adolescent Master visiting an Estate far from his own family. Saved from the carnage by a retainer of his dead hosts, Joseph's only way out is to make the long trek back to his own family's estate, dodging as he goes the Folk who are on the alert for any survivors. On one level, following Joseph's trek, this book is a fascinating tour of the planet, encompassing creatures exotic in form and culture. On a deeper level, it is Joseph's own awakening and realization that his privileged position which he has never before questioned, is built on the foundation of near slavery. Silverberg relates excellently how each new experience changes Joseph; sadly he ends just with Joseph returned home resolved to implement his learning, but with little indication of what exactly he will do. Not one ofSilverberg's best, but a good read all the same.	2003-05-19
US	52988759	RWITHBQMBJXIB	0725402024	888027466	Gone Fishin	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Good, but not a patch on the earlier 2	Gone Fishing is on the face of it a sequel to the earlier books in the series i.e. They're a Weird Mob and Cop This Lot. Like its predecessors, GF provides an entertaining and interesting look at life in 1960s Australia as seen by an Italian immigrant. There are plenty of funny incidents that would make the reader smile and while many of the characters are new, the old faithfuls of Kay, Joe, Dennis and Edie are not left out. For all that however, GF seems a bit forced, suggesting that the author did not after all really have anything much to say but was trying to follow up the success of the earlier two. This is backed up by the fact that the fishing issue takes up about half the book while the rest is a series of (doubtless interesting) fillers. While &quot;They're a Weird Mob&quot; and &quot;Cop This Lot&quot; are strongly recommended, GF can be given a skip.	2003-05-17
US	52988759	R2DBIX5S0TI0QW	0802703631	938571618	The Sensuous Dirty Old Man	Books	5	6	7	N	N	A sophisticated laugh riot from start to finish.	Isaac Asimov (the coy Dr. A who authored this book) is well known, not only to science fiction readers but many others as well, given the astounding breadth of his interests and his writings. With several hundred books to his credit, Asimov wrote on subjects as diverse as science, science fiction, literature, the Bible and so on. Sadly, few people know him as the author of The Sensuous Dirty Old Man (SDOM). Sadder yet, this book is very hard to find. <br />From start to finish, SDOM is a laugh riot as Asimov mercilessly parodies all and sundry. Ostensibly a guide for the Dirty Old Man to indulge his fascination with the female of the species, this little volume is a great helping of tongue in cheek humor at its best. Always outrageous but never really offensive, Asimov takes aim at fashions, at politics and just about everything else. Nor does he spare history or literature - witness his re-naming of the famed picture of the signers of the Declaration of Independence as the Bosom Rehabilitation Associates (or BRA!) and his hilarious send-up of the Verdi aria Oh Mammamobile from Rigoletto. <br />Asimov's well known writing strengths shine here as well. Written almost in conversational style, the book includes numerous vignettes of history, art and literature, all twisted by the author to his wicked purpose! No matter whether you are dirty, old or male: you will find yourself laughing helplessly all the way through and wishing there was more.	2003-04-24
US	52988759	R2FWDECEH35WZB	080852125X	643750532	The Sword Of Shannara (Turtleback School & Library Binding Edition)	Books	3	3	4	N	N	A good read, despite weaknesses.	The Sword of Shannara is Terry Brooks' first book and while it contains much to crib about, it has a lot to praise as well. Many readers have complained that Sword is a knock-off of Lord of the Rings (albeit on a much smaller time and space scale) and indeed the similarities are too numerous to be a coincidence. However, given the towering stature and influence of Tolkien on the genre of epic fantasy, I wonder if any author could possibly avoid some level of derivation. Look beyond the evident similarities and you will find this a worthwhile read. Besides, to be fair to Brooks, the similarities are in the main restricted to Sword, which is but a setting of the stage for the Shannara series. Even if Sword draws heavily on Tolkien, in the subsequent books, he has walked his own route.<br />In fact, Brooks' innovations in Sword are praiseworthy. While medieval in much of its appearance, the stage is actually that of a post-apocalyptic earth which has been largely laid waste by some huge conflagration (apparently some combination of nuclear and biological) in the not too distant past. The survivors have struggled to re-build a semblance of their former lives and the destruction along with an aversion to the technology (whose misuse brought them to this state) has resulted in a quasi medieval, pastoral life. In Brooks' world, the standard elves, dwarfs and trolls of fantasy are but convenient names for human survivors whose survival strategies led them to forests, caves or mountains. As society rebuilds, a group of learned men (druids) who are the repository of knowledge passed down verbally, attempt to reconstruct the knowledge of the race, an attempt which veers away from hard science to sorcery and magic. Sword begins at a point where the survivors have settled into a balance of power after a major war against a group of druids who sought absolute power. That war was not a complete defeat however and the evil is stirring again. In true fantasy style, a village naïf is destined to be the savior, accompanied by the usual crew of companions and this is the tale of Sword. Beyond the stereotypes, Sword is a good tale of power struggles and triumph (inevitably!) with some excellent battle descriptions. <br />Having said that, there are annoyances galore which probably flow from this being Brooks' first book. Characterizations are very weak for the most part and it is a struggle to get under the skin of any of the characters. Maps seem to be almost amateurish and do not convey much. Women play an even lesser role than in Tolkien's works! The only female character is largely ornamental and has little to do beyond comfort and care. Brooks' remedies this is subsequent works though.<br />All in all a good read, despite its weaknesses.	2003-04-21
US	52988759	R1BB9GPUGBNCVC	067142663X	35750430	SANDKINGS	Books	5	14	14	N	N	A sample of the versatility and imagination of GRRM	George R. R. Martin is not just one of the best fantasy or science fiction writers of our time, it is hard to pin him down into any genre. Some of the stories in this volume could better be described as horror rather than fantasy or science fiction.<br />Sandkings, the title story and easily the best of the lot falls into this category. Simon Kress, a rather unpleasant character, acquires as pets these exotic, quasi insect creatures comprised of a physically distinct body (with brain and alimentary functions) and a number of dispersed mobile units who serve as foragers and warriors. Picture an ant-nest or a beehive, except that the queen is of a vastly higher level of consciousness and intelligence and can command her mobiles to undertake more complex projects. Kress' selfishness and sadism wreak havoc on his pets till they transform from loyal subjects (almost disciples in a way) to something beyond scary. It is as if a people long oppressed finally turn on their master. This is just the bare outline, the story itself is compelling and left me gasping by the end (which I am not going to spoil for you - take my word that it is one of the most gripping finales you will read).<br />The other stories are shadowed by Sandkings but are excellent in themselves. I particularly liked The Way of Cross and Dragon, a searing look at religion and the religious hierarchy. Also Star Lady, a tale of the loss of innocence on a planet with no rule of law, and then in a way, a strange redemption as well. <br />The mood throughout the book is dark and this is not a book you want to read in a low mood. I strongly recommend it however as a superb example of storytelling and a sample of the versatility and imagination of George R. R. Martin.	2003-04-17
US	52988759	RF9R65HXII2C0	0395282659	669379389	The Hobbit	Books	4	0	1	N	N	Underrated in comparison to Lord of the Rings.	The Hobbit is probably the most underrated of all Tolkien's writings and it is not hard to see why. Hobbit is written in the style of a book for children and consequently, many people set it aside after the first few chapters. What a mistake! For Hobbit may be childlike in its writing style (in fact, children enjoy reading it tremendously) but there is nothing childish about it. On the face of it, Hobbit is the tale of an adventurous treasure hunt, sprinkled with wizards, dwarves, elves, dragons and of course hobbits.  In actuality however, slotted (chronology-wise) between the Silmarillion and the Lord of the Rings (LOTR), Hobbit sets the stage for the climactic struggle with Sauron in LOTR. In fact, Gandalf in LOTR refers to the events in the Hobbit, both the finding of the Ring of Power and the destruction of Smaug. As compared to LOTR, Hobbit is a sunnier book, with hints of troubled times, yet filled with humor and adventurous optimism; hence perhaps its appeal to children too. For fans of LOTR, Hobbit is a must. It answers a lot of questions that LOTR raises about prior events. Do not get put off by its apparent lightness and you will find it rewarding. Ideally, read Silmarillion first, then Hobbit and finally LOTR. But even if (as most people) you first read LOTR, Silmarillion and Hobbit will still delight you. The Leatherette edition is particularly good with quality binding, paper and illustrations and would make a great gift.	2003-04-11
US	52988759	RA5JYDJVQNYSY	0345303067	940144736	2010: Odyssey Two	Books	5	13	16	N	N	As good as ( in some ways better than) 2001	2010 is one of the rare cases where the sequel is almost as good as the original - in some ways it is even better. <br />There are some quibbles of course. In building on 2001, Clarke chose to follow the movie rather than the book (hence Jupiter instead of Saturn,  the recap of Bowman's conflict with Hal gives the movie dialog and so on). Also, 2001 was almost austere in its simplicity. Dialog and character development were skeletal. The reader was positioned as an external observer - in that sense, 2001 was a challenge to the reader. 2010 is dumbed down in a sense. Character development (never a Clarke strength) is marginally better than 2001 but the dialog is plentiful, making it a far easier read. Not a criticism, one just misses the simplicity and elegance of 2001.<br />Having said that, 2010 can easily claim to be one of the landmarks of science fiction. Imagination has always been Clarke's forte and the way he comes up with the various ideas of primitive life on Europa, the proto-sun of Lucifer and so on are nothing short of brilliant. The story line builds on 2001 and takes us further down the road, telling us more about David Bowman, the monolith and the intelligence behind it. All with a very human touch to it - witness the fate of the Tsien. <br />And as always, Clarke uses his trademark sly humor and simple analogies to make technical concepts easy to understand. Language has always been Clarke's second strength and he paints superb pictures with words, describing the spacescape, the flight of the two ships, the exploration of Jupiter, Io and Europa (in fact fans of Clarke will recognize the Jupiter descriptions from his earlier short story classic \\"A Meeting with Medusa\\"). A very good book.	2003-03-29
US	52988759	RAWEL0959P5HN	0451450639	379678595	2001: A Space Odyssey	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Top drawer!	The book that started many people reading science fiction in earnest and still probably Clarke's best known work. I have always thought it a good book, but certainly not one of Clarke's best. The beginning is still one of the best I have ever read as Clarke looks at primitive proto-humans and suggests that the monolith, representing an extra-terrestrial super-intelligence stimulates them into acquiring skills that appear basic but could mean the difference between survival and extinction at the hands of the less intelligent yet vastly more powerful beasts around them. The subsequent stages i.e. the discovery of the monolith on the moon, the voyage of the Discovery, the quirks of space travel, the showdown with the HAL computer and then the final denouement out by the moons of Saturn must have been awesome when the book was first written; today, many decades later, they are inevitably dulled. Yet having said that, the story itself is gripping: the struggle of humanity in the face of odds, with a kindly helping hand at the right time - almost in some ways an experiment in a vast laboratory. The story is humbling, suggesting as it does the sheer insignificance of earth in the universe (a Clarke specialty unlike Asimov who goes the opposite direction). As always, Clarke's writing style is top drawer - sparse to the point of terseness at times (this is a very short book for all its huge time horizon), yet filled with subtle humor and sly digs at ourselves.	2003-03-17
US	52988759	RUNDB9Y154VG7	0767907639	659080398	Why Men Don't Listen and Women Can't Read Maps: How We're Different and What to Do About It	Books	3	17	18	N	N	A fun read - don't take it too seriously!	As with any book that tries to explain the differences between men and women, this book is replete with generalizations. Once you accept that the statements made refer to probabilities that apply to the majority of subjects, but certainly not all persons, the various points start to add up. In the old genetics vs. environment debate, the Peases suggest that the hormones which govern our gender also define the pathways in which we perceive reality, pursue relationships and solve problems. Somewhat similar to the earlier 'Men are from Mars, Women are from Venus\\", this is a useful look at human behavior that might just reduce the number of male-female battles! For all the authors' claimed research however, this is just a light hearted book that can be enjoyed with profit. Do not expect any scientific breakthroughs, but you can certainly get a better understanding of both your own behavior and the mysterious behavior of the opposite sex, (whichever that may be)! Just read it with an open mind and have fun - don't take it too seriously!	2003-03-17
US	52988759	R38K3A89DKLMJA	0765342510	679672961	The Santaroga Barrier	Books	3	10	10	N	N	A fascinating read.	The fame of Herbert's Dune series has sadly obscured some of his other science fiction - Santaroga is a prime example. A valley town in California appears to be not just different from the rest of the world around it, but practically on a different planet. It's residents have no interest in the external world or the products it offers - almost an autarky. Driven by a corporate marketing assignment combined with the lure of an old (but strongly flickering) flame, Gilbert Dasein visits the town and finds a bizarre degree of contentment and unity. On the face of it, it is the mysterious Jaspers (akin to the mlange of Dune) that is responsible but Herbert is driving at a larger picture here. Santaroga is almost a collective mind, or a community with a group consciousness. One that thrives in its little pond and fears the vast ocean outside which it strives to hold at arm's length - the barrier of the title. A fascinating read.	2003-03-17
US	52988759	R11765ZHKMTV7J	0553287893	458314472	Rendezvous with Rama	Books	5	7	9	N	N	One of the very best.	When I first read Rama many years ago, what stunned me was the sheer scale of imagination that it represented. In fact, Clarke's strength has always been his imagination. Even today, reading the book for the umpteenth time, I have the same feeling. The degree to which Clarke describes Rama and at the same time explains just how complex interstellar travel could be is truly amazing. His description of Rama's interior (the Cylindrical Sea, the layout, the stairways, the biots) are so vivid and clear that one can picture the craft. The sheer scale of the project fills the reader with a sense of awe and wonder that remains all through the book. The story is simple : in short, an asteroid watch spots Rama, an object hurtling towards the solar system and then realizes it is no rocky planetoid but an artificial object made by intelligent beings. A ship is launched to intercept and possibly explore Rama. Their experience and interaction with Rama is the heart of the book. The context is one frequently favored by Clarke - that of humanity as near-children, stumbling (almost by error and perhaps a bit of extra-terrestrial design) on matters far greater than they can comprehend (2001 A Space Odyssey, Childhood's End). Humanity comes in \\"contact\\" (so to speak) with an advanced alien intelligence which it can barely begin to comprehend. And while humanity fears that it may be subject to domination, even tyranny, the sublime ending designed by Clarke is if anything even more telling. Without giving away the plot, I can only say that the final realization of our sheer insignificance in the scale of the Universe is pretty humbling. As always, Clarke's writing style is top drawer, filled with subtle humor and sly digs at ourselves. A must-read.	2003-03-17
US	52988759	R1X4GSUYPSRLVT	0671741926	818442828	The Mote in God's Eye	Books	3	2	3	N	N	A good idea, not handled too well.	This book is a nice mix of hard science fiction (faster than light drives, spaceships) and soft science fiction (social psychology of alien species) which makes it particularly interesting. The strength of the book in fact lies in its invention and depiction of the Moties as a differently-developed society comprising individuals specialized for various tasks or roles: somewhat like skilled professionals but on a planetary scale. Thus they have classes or castes of masters, mediators, workmen and others, each specialized in that role and unable to perform any other. An interesting idea and the glimpses of Motie society in the book are fascinating. <br />That said however, the characterization is pretty flat with the human characters in particular being rather one dimensional and predictable. The other weakness of this book (which cannot be helped of course) is that having been written in the 1970s, its picture of human society reflects those times, with a bias towards systems that are quasi-feudal and women restricted to very ornamental roles at best. At the time it was published, this was probably the norm; it does get quite a bit jarring now and one almost gets the feeling that in some ways, the Motie society is more enlightened than human at times!<br />Not a great book but certainly a decent read. I gave it 3 stars for the Motie society idea, else it would rate just 2.	2003-03-04
US	52988759	RXTP6C3DD9O3E	0312864590	656525801	Crossroads of Twilight (The Wheel of Time, Book 10)	Books	1	5	5	N	N	Standstill - no progress	I am amazed that Robert Jordan (RJ) and his publishers are unable or unwilling to smell the coffee. Witness the near unanimity among Amazon reviewers that the recent Wheel of Time books have deteriorated badly. <br />Books 1-5, maybe even 6 were top drawer. RJ painted his world in bold strokes, we got detailed descriptions, the main characters were developed, the story clearly progressed. Most important of all, these books gripped the reader; it was a real struggle to lay them aside for food or rest! After that, some taint (!) seems to have struck down the writer. The pace of events has become glacially slow, the plot line seems to meander in a sluggish maze, the very quality of the writing seems to have become sloppy. The characters do not grow and develop further; instead they seem almost to regress. What happened to the RJ who wrote that fascinating time slice view of Aiel history, who expounded the meaning of ji'-e-toh, who described for us the testing of the Accepted? <br />Don't get me wrong. I love doorstopper sized books and revel in sub-plots. But sub-plots are called so for a reason; they are incidental to the main storyline and get resolved soon. Yet RJ now dwells obsessively on the sub-plots leaving messy loose ends and as a result, the main plot line suffers in the sea of sub-plots and cannot progress. Book 8 ended with Egwene's Aes Sedai and Gareth Bryne's army poised to attack Tar Valon. Now at the close of Book 10, Egwene was just about ready to get the attack moving! Perrin appears for a few brief pages in the beginning of Book 9 searching for Faile, and disappears; now back in Book 10 he is still at best slightly closer to finding and rescuing her. Book 8 ended with Mat trapped in Ebou Dar, by the end of Book 9 he had barely started his escape and by the close of Book 10, he is still to cross the border! <br />Huge discontinuities tear the fabric. Rand is now mysteriously in Tear and still playing silly games with Cadsuane, all while the Stone is somehow besieged. Mesaana is in trouble for ignoring the Dark Lord's summons; when was this summons anyway? And the rest of the Forsaken are mysteriously absent. I could go on. <br />Apart from the story elements, again Book 10 sticks with the same pathetic scrap of a map which is so lacking in detail that it is useless (just try figuring where exactly Perrin or Mat are located and where they are heading with any degree of precision). How can you have a fantasy novel without a decent map of the fantasy world? And the wretched excuse for a glossary is so paltry and incomplete that I wonder why RJ bothered with it at all. <br />I still think it would be instructive for Tor / RJ to run an analysis of sales of each book in the series. I will stick my neck out and predict that the Books-1-6 sold more in hardcover as well as paperback to individuals, the last four will have been bought by proportionally less individuals and more by libraries. Many of RJ's readers, who earlier would have given his WOT books pride of place on their bookshelf are getting disillusioned and falling back on the public library. I for one still want to read how the series ends, but not another cent of my money will RJ get unless he works for it. Contempt for his readers is coming back to bite RJ.	2003-02-20
US	52988759	REMORFN1XCDX1	0345347951	589013680	Childhood's End	Books	4	2	3	N	N	A classic of science fiction	Of all Arthur Clarke's works, Childhood's End is not only the most disturbing but also one that truly challenges a reader. Like the best of science fiction, the nuts and bolts of spaceships and technology are but the base canvas for the painting. The title itself, Childhood's End, is loaded with several layers of meaning. On a basic level, it is the end of human life as it was conventionally known when the Overlords arrive. On the highest level, humanity itself in the end grows beyond its infancy and transitions to something beyond (and hopefully better than!) human. <br />As is the case with many of his other books, Clarke pushes his own philosophy here, having the Overlords promote and in some cases enforce causes dear to him: witness the bullfighting example and the bodily form of the Overlords. Another theme that appears in other works of Clarke is that the future belongs to the young whom he sees as more open to new ideas and less hidebound by past experiences. <br />Bear in mind here that the timeline of this book is pretty long and for that and other reasons, the story is told by different voices over the period of the book. That has its own charm as well, as one sees the nucleus of the story from multiple angles. The time factor also allows us to see how humanity evolves over the period, from fear of the Overlords, to grudging acceptance, till finally the presence of the Overlords is taken almost for granted. There are some weak parts of course; the rationale for the Overlords arrival on earth is somewhat thin and plays more to Clarke's philosophy than the logical coherence of the story. But that is just a small detail.<br />Most poignant of all, just as the \\"older\\" humans can only watch in dismay and incomprehension as their children move beyond them, in many ways, the Overlords too are left on the sidelines and share the same sentiments of loss and futility. <br />This is an awesome book. It is not a book that will cheer you, rather it will leave you disturbed and shaken at the end. But it is a book that will make you think and remember how small we are in the overall scale of the Universe. I cannot recommend this book highly enough.	2003-02-19
US	52988759	R16RRZHZFBO4KC	0441790348	739394524	Stranger in a Strange Land (Remembering Tomorrow)	Books	4	3	6	N	N	Learning to question	Much has been written about Heinlein's ideological purpose but for this review, I am going to ignore it and focus solely on the book, on merits. A caveat: keep in mind this book was published in the 1960s so adjust your time context accordingly. <br />The vanilla science fiction tool is to stage human encounters with aliens and then play out the interaction. In a twist, Heinlein has a pseudo-alien look at humans. Valentine Michael Smith (VMS), though human, has grown to adulthood in such alien circumstances as to be effectively an outsider with no experience of human beings or Earth. The circumstances of his growing up on Mars and learning his unusual abilities are glossed over in the book as they are but a device: the focus is humans as they appear to this star-child.<br />And childlike he is indeed, in the best sense of the word as he tries his level best to understand the human systems of religion, superstition, social customs and so on. You do not need to agree with Heinlein's views (some of which are pretty dated and annoying) to appreciate this look in the mirror. Just as a child's favorite question is \\"why?\\", so too VMS encounters human relationships, the seamier side of organized religion, the numerous taboos and fears of humanity and asks \\"why?\\". The enchanting part of this is that the \\"why?\\" is not judgmental but only an attempt to understand.<br />Sure, the book can be annoying at times when Heinlein gets carried away and the ending is in many ways a contradiction to the rest of the book. For all that, this is not a book to be missed. The best way to approach this book is neither as science fiction nor philosophy. Enjoy the story without reading between the lines, but do learn to ask \\"why?\\" yourself, just as VMS does.	2003-02-06
US	52988759	R3JBENLNQKLCNW	0395939461	619220705	The Silmarillion	Books	5	146	152	N	N	One of the greatest books ever written.	If like me you consider the Lord of the Rings (LOTR) one of the greatest books written in human history, then The Silmarillion is a must for you. LOTR can be read as a self-contained package, thanks to the detailed Notes that Tolkien painstakingly provides, but it still leaves many unanswered questions. After all, LOTR covers the 3rd Age of Middle Earth, telling us very little about the previous two ages. And it is full of tantalizing references to the past glories of Numenor, the Last Alliance of Elves and Men, the origins of the elves, dwarves and men, the various Lays and so on. <br />The Silmarillion is, if anything, on an even larger scale. Its chronology starts at the Creation of the Universe and builds to the events of the climactic Third Age that are described in LOTR. If LOTR is awesome, the Silmarillion is stupendous. A proper order would be to read the Silmarillion, followed by The Hobbit and then LOTR. But even reading them out of order (as most readers would have) is rewarding. <br />The Silmarillion starts at the very beginning with the story of the creation of the Universe, (a fascinating tale in itself) and then lays the ground for the various players on this vast stage. It is in fact 5 separate books. First comes the Ainulindale which is the story of the creation of Tolkien's Universe - a veritable Genesis and Fall if you will. Then comes the Valaquenta, the tale of the Valar or Guardians. Third in the chronology is the Quenta Silmarillion itself - the tale of the Silmarilli. Fourth comes the Akallabeth, the tale of the rise and fall of the Men of Numenor in the First Age. And almost as a footnote, the fifth and last book, Of the Rings of Power and the Third Age. Bear in mind that this is in fact a compilation by Christopher Tolkien from his father's papers so expect some discontinuities. <br />The fabled jewels or Silmarilli give the book its name and are the thread that binds the various tales of the book together. Tolkien tells of the emergence of life on earth, the rebellion of some of the elves and their departure for Middle Earth, their efforts to build a new life for themselves in the teeth of the oppression and tyranny of Morgoth and his servants (like Sauron), the origin of the distrust between dwarves and elves, the creation of orcs as twisted copies of the elves, of the much debated \\"gift\\" of mortality to men. It is the tale of humanity all over again, of people striving in the face of difficulties to make a new life. <br />The tales themselves are fascinating as Tolkien tells of love and war, of courage and treachery, of nobility and baseness. There are great battles and mighty warriors, bewitching romances and spellbinding intrigues, great victories and grinding defeats. <br />And of course the lyrical prose: Tolkien is one of the very few writers whose very prose reads like poetry. The ring and cadence of names, the melody inherent in the lyrics of his songs: this is fine writing at its peak. A wonderful book, not to be missed.	2003-01-25
US	52988759	R1BFJS633V325Q	0345456351	449599166	A Gift of Dragons (Pern)	Books	3	4	9	N	N	Filling the gaps	This slim volume is nowhere near as fascinating as Anne McCaffrey's full length Pern novels. Its worth is that the 4 stories it contains serve to fill in gaps in the overall picture. The stories are short and somewhat simplistic but present a view of Pern not otherwise dwelt on - children hoping to impress dragons for example. Not quite a book to add to one's library but for all Pern fans, a nice set of glimpses. I only wish Anne had focused on some other Pernese professions - maybe the Healer Hall (2 of the 4 stories are dragon-rider oriented)?	2002-12-25
US	52988759	R24MHWH6YJICPT	0440204887	988703853	Illusions: The Adventures of a Reluctant Messiah	Books	5	1	3	N	N	A Book of Imagination - dare to dream!	Illusions is an old favorite of mine which I suddenly ran into again, much like an old friend. I read it many years ago while in college and somehow I connected with it. I am too much of a hard nosed realist and cannot suspend belief beyond a point. So I prefer to treat Don Shimoda's (and later Richard's) various fantastic deeds as metaphors. I don't claim to be right; others may have their own take. It does not matter because the worth of the book lies not in the story line (charming as it is) but rather in the lessons embedded in it. In Seagull, Richard was teaching, almost didactic. In Illusions, he and the reader are both students, discovering that the world is even more wonderful than we thought. The combination of the story line and the aphorisms in the \\"Messiah's Handbook\\" makes for a read that is both entertaining and educative. Maybe some of the aphorisms are old-hat, even simplistic, but I liked a great many of them. In a way, Illusions is itself the Messiah's Handbook! Open it to any page; you may not find the answer to your specific problem but it will certainly set you thinking.	2002-09-17
US	52988759	R28DUNHVGK0749	0684846845	129257055	Jonathan Livingston Seagull	Books	5	3	5	N	N	Outside the box	Seagull is an old favorite of mine which I suddenly ran into again, much like an old friend. I read it first as a child, liking the story and not really appreciating the metaphor. I re-read it as a high schooler (and many times thereafter) and could see the book's true value. One of those classics that one always looks back on with delight. Bach evidently chose seagulls in light of his own flying background but the picture of the rat race remains as compelling. I bought soon after a poster of a bird silhouetted against the sun setting over a seascape and the words on it always remained with me : &quot;You see things as they are, and ask why? I see things that never were, and ask why not?&quot;. I don't think Bach said this (can some Amazonian tell me who the author is?) but they seem apt for this wonderful book.	2002-09-11
US	52988759	RTCHP9B8MK229	0314240950	29576743	Uniform Commercial Code in a Nutshell (Nutshell Series)	Books	4	19	19	N	N	Well crafted and useful	I purchased this book to understand some aspects of secured transactions and related matters of the Uniform Commercial Code. While I am no lawyer, I have some knowledge of law as a banker. I found this book to be useful and well designed. The coverage is quite broad in scope and deep in time as well. Stone explains the impact of each provision in terms of the latest UCC revision as well as previous versions. He also provides several examples and the text is very well cross referenced with UCC provisions and related cases. The language too is simple without being condescending. I don't know about professional lawyers or law students but as a manager with some knowledge of the law, I found the book helpful in answering my questions. At the very least, it helped me build up some basic knowledge and better prepared me for the ensuing legal consultations.	2002-05-28
US	52988759	R23ZY7YE9O2AEM	055380202X	135474617	The Universe in a Nutshell	Books	4	32	34	N	N	Mind expanding!	In \\"The Universe in a Nutshell\\", Hawking takes the reader on a fascinating romp through the cosmos. Many people bought \\"A Brief History of Time\\"; not all of them read it through. I believe \\"Universe in a Nutshell\\" will be better read if nothing else because Hawking has taken pains this time to tailor this book for the lay reader; in fact his writing style in this book reads a lot like Isaac Asimov, for my money the best science writer for lay persons ever. There is wit aplenty, there are charming digressions into personal anecdotes. This is like a fireside chat with Hawking leading us into following his line of thought. <br />The structure of the book is simpler too this time. In the first two chapters, Hawking gives the reader a basic grounding in astrophysics and cosmology, just to lay the foundation for what follows. Dealing with relativity and quantum theory is challenging but Hawking manages to simplify enough to get his point across. Happily, his explanation style, keeping jargon to the minimum and making good use of examples and pictorial representations, makes it easy for the lay reader to follow his reasoning. And while jargon cannot be completely eliminated, there is a decent glossary to help the reader. <br />The foundation thus laid, Hawking then branches all over the universe, from the classic paradox of time travel to the alternative universes of Richard Feynman. The reader is free to choose which branch to follow and in what order - the chapters are not sequential. I particularly liked his sobering discussion of how biological evolution is being overtaken by the explosive growth in information storage and dissemination and the resulting implications for human engineering. <br />Bear in mind that this is not light reading. The concepts Hawking is dealing with are mind bending and often fiendishly difficult to conceptualize. A prior knowledge of some basic astrophysics probably helps. But for all that, this is still a very good book for an interested lay reader. It will bend your mind into twists, but it will expand your understanding of the world in which we live. Highly recommended.	2001-11-12
US	52988759	R2OU0889E742RR	0399144463	305463091	Who Moved My Cheese?: An Amazing Way to Deal with Change in Your Work and in Your Life	Books	2	1	1	N	N	Simplistic, but it has a message	This is a very small and not overly challenging book with a simplistic message. Underneath the fable of the mice and the men, Johnson is dealing with change: how change can come with little warning, how different people react differently to change, how people prefer to be snug and safe and therefore fear change. The cheese here is an allegory for whatever you may value, be it money, relationships, even just cheese! What happens when your cheese suddenly vanishes and you cannot seem to get it? Do you sit and wait in the hope it will return? Do you try to find out what happened and thereby get hold of some more cheese? The book has a message so do not get put off by the fable format. What seems to be obvious and common sense is not always so in real life and sometimes a silly fable helps like a poke in the ribs. Worth a read but I find the bestseller rankings hard to believe!	2001-07-23
US	52988759	R33KWSPKQ1VFY4	0385036213	98476492	The World Inside	Books	5	8	9	N	N	Top quality Science Fiction!	The World Inside is one of Silverberg's best works, where he extrapolates into the future and then looks at human behavior. Picture Earth in the year 2381, specifically present day USA. The inexorable growth of population, driven by a quasi-religious fertility ethic has so pressured the available surface area, that new urban units have developed. Instead of cities, there are huge apartment complexes, many towers (grouped in a \\"constellation\\"), with each tower rising miles into the air, accommodating as many as 1000 levels, each with hundreds of apartments. In effect, each such \\"urban monad\\" or \\"urbmon\\" is a mini-city in itself and like any city has its own schools, medical facilities, waste management, technicians, office professionals and administrators. With this background, Silverberg writes a series of short stories that explore social interaction. With so many people in close proximity, conflict management becomes critical so the urbmon \\"eliminates\\" causes of conflict. Sexual attraction for instance is kept free of jealousy by making sexual relationships independent of marital links. Men and women can \\"nightwalk\\" into other's apartments for sex as casually as borrowing a cup of sugar. Families of 2 parents and 6-10 children occupy one apartment which is just one large room so children are taught from an early age to share toys and possessions. Privacy is unheard of and consequently nudity is free of taboo. The individual is socialized into subordinating his or her behavior and aspirations to the good of the urbmon society. And yet, since the urbmon inevitably requires maintenance, police and janitorial services, a clear stratification of society develops, with the lowly seeking to rise to the ranks of  the Administrators on the top levels. Each story explores one facet of life in the urbmon and in doing so unfolds the big picture. With all needs met, what happens to striving for something better? How is the occasional rebel to be dealt with? With all material needs taken care of, why go out of the urbmon into a frightening open space at all? This is a book that in turns shakes up the reader, makes one think of the power of society and even scares! Science fiction at its best: the focus is less on pseudo-technological bells and whistles and more on how humans behave in a vision of the future that is both attractive and frightening at the same time. Highly recommended.	2001-07-16
US	52988759	R1OZ70CS96NSJO	0312872356	54502094	The Ring of Five Dragons (The Pearl)	Books	4	16	19	N	N	Refreshingly different!	Ring is a refreshingly different entry in the fantasy sweepstakes with Lustbader breaking away from the stereotyped battle between a group of innocents and an imprisoned  \\"Dark One\\" aided by a band of apostates. For one, the scale of this series is galactic. The drama is played out on a single planet, but the key protagonists come from different star systems and in fact are ethnically very different. On one hand are the peaceful, almost passive Kundalan and on the other hand the aggressive, oppressive V'ornn. The V'ornn, as part of their history, have warred with and eradicated numerous other planets at the bidding of their mysterious technomage lords the Gyrgon. V'ornn society is male dominated  and strictly stratified into merchants, warriors, workers and women. The Gyrgon themselves are a kind of super-caste who direct the actions of the V'ornn in a quest for an unknown goal. This quest has brought V'ornn and Gyrgon to Kundala where they oppress the peaceful Kundalan in a savage campaign of suppression. The Kundalan, unable to resist the superior might of the V'ornn, are driven to questioning the old gods and traditions of Kundala, which kept them prosperous and happy, yet were of no avail in the face of the V'ornn assault. Into this long dark night of the Kundalan soul comes a prophesied savior who may be able to restore the balance. That is the bare bones of the plot; however Lustbader brings a number of innovations that make this story special. First, the world of Kundala and the lifestyles of Kundalan and V'ornn are very well depicted, so much so that the reader can easily picture the scenes. Second, in keeping with some of his earlier writings, Lustbader brings a large dollop of mysticism to Ring. The blend of religion and sorcery is very well handled and the mystic element shapes the story. Third, social interactions within and across boundaries are very well painted. For all their external differences, the politics, lusts and feuds of V'ornn, Gyrgon and Kundalan alike are eminently human! For a change, women do play a more than ornamental role and in fact the unusual male-female dichotomy of its main protagonist should make future volumes very interesting indeed. And make no mistake, there will be more volumes! This book is just the setting of the stage (in fact it's ending hangs in the air) and the main story is yet to develop. A very promising first volume of a possible series (though of course this is really not Lustbader's fantasy debut - remember the excellent Sunset Warrior trilogy). Highly recommended.	2001-07-12
US	52988759	R3TN3PB3NCOMD5	0517206404	189089332	The Guns of Navarone/Force 10 from Navarone (Cinema Classics)	Books	4	6	6	N	N	MacLean at his early best - great stuff!	Guns of Navarone was my introduction to Alistair MacLean a couple of decades back and what an introduction it was! A disparate team, each member picked for his particular expertise, united only by their enmity with the Germans, is deployed to attempt a near impossible task. The British sea borne retreat from the Aegean islands is prevented by the gun battery on Navarone that commands the sea route. Assault by air or sea is impossible and the land route to destroy the battery involves climbing a rock face that even the best rock climbers shudder at - but there is no other route! The team assembles, bonds as it approaches the deployment point (despite individual irritants) and makes the attempt. The outcome of course is successful but in spinning the yarn MacLean takes the reader on a roller coaster. From the calm of the Aegean cruise to the split-second timing of the finale, from the crude pettiness of small minded individuals, to the unsung heroism of a dying man, from the stereotyped Nazi villain to an individual's battle to overcome fear, MacLean holds the reader in thrall. <br />Force 10 merits a mixed review. Though billed as a sequel to Guns, it is actually a sequel to the movie version, which added the usual Hollywood froth to the book, and hence is a bit disorienting for the reader who has not seen the movie. Based in what used to be Yugoslavia, our team of heroes, now somewhat abridged, attempts a brilliant feint to fool the Nazis as to the direction of the main Allied attack into Europe. The feint also has a significant local impact of course. Again an excellent thriller (my only real beef is the discontinuity with the Guns novel) and in fact both Guns and Force 10 are MacLean at his early best, when his novels were concise doses of thrilling action. Among his early strengths were high quality dialog and terrific descriptions, especially of events of nature like storms and floods. Excellent suspense for the most part, fast paced action, believable yet wondrous storyline and gripping prose. Good for an air or train journey or even vacation reading.	2001-07-02
US	52988759	R1TOQW3Q7RYFAB	0553271091	107272816	The Road to Gandolfo	Books	5	9	9	N	N	A terrific parody!	This book is one of my favorite depression relievers and a laugh riot from start to finish. For all Ludlum fans, if you are hooked on his customary fare of high voltage suspense and international shenanigans, with events moving at blinding speed, then this book may not be for you. The Road to Gandolfo  was written by him before his thrillers became a class of their own and is as different from them as apples from oranges. Yes, there are international goings-on and plenty of war-gaming, strategy and tactics in pursuit of an incredible objective - the kidnapping of the Pope himself!. Yet this is no espionage thriller; rather this book is a terrific parody of the genre. From the fast paced beginning to the charming almost pastoral close, Ludlum spares nobody: the Army, the bureaucrats, the Mafia, the corporate world, lawyers, terrorists, all feel the bite of his wit. The characters too are well drawn: the autocratic Hawk, his four incredible wives, the bumbling Sam Deveraux and a wonderfully human Pope reminiscent of John XXIII all come to full life. A great fun read for the vacations or whenever you want to relax with a light read. A most enjoyable book!	2001-06-21
US	52988759	R2XB72KFOKZ41H	0517189186	302380866	Clan of the Cave Bear (Earth's Children)	Books	4	11	13	N	N	Window to a different time	This is an outstanding book; the first and by far the best of the Earth's Children Series. In telling the story of Ayla and the Clan, Jean Auel opens a window to the life of our ancestors many many centuries ago. The primitive beliefs and customs, the tribal ceremonies and rituals are fascinating and the play of human relationships between the various characters makes for a very good read. The characters themselves are many faceted (except perhaps Broud, whose persistent villainousness seems more 21st century!)  and Jean Auel manages to get the reader in sync with the thoughts and actions of each character. It is educative to see the clearly defined roles people had in those days; the chieftain, the medicine woman, the priest. Against its backdrop of another time and place, the story itself is age old. A newcomer to a group upsets the set norms of existence and questions ideas and rules that the group takes for granted. Some in the group appreciate the challenge, others insist that the norms are set in stone and cannot be challenged. This is a book for any student of human nature. Highly recommended.	2001-06-14
US	52988759	R3EPMGF6GZMDM6	0395977894	515614189	Fast Food Nation: The Dark Side of the All-American Meal	Books	4	11	12	N	N	Must read!	Fast Food Nation is a book that is very disturbing to read and which will create deep discomfort in the reader. Despite its title, the books focuses as much on the fast food industry itself as its suppliers and for my money, the latter are the real problem. Sure, fast food has nutritional implications, and additives are quite a scam, but nobody is forcing you to eat it all the time. If you want to live on burgers, well that is your choice. <br />The story of the meat industry however is sickening. I am not referring to the early days of the meatpackers; bad as matters were in those days, that was no different from the robber baron mentality of that age. The shocker is that the meatpacking industry (beef, chicken, whatever) even today has no compunctions about its terrible practices. The shame of America today is that corporates can buy off regulatory oversight of their activities by political donations. The USDA has been so hamstrung today that even when it knows of rules being traduced, it can do precious little. It is scary and disgusting to read just what we are eating in the name of meat products. It is even more frightening to read how the industry in a standard knee-jerk reaction resists safety measures not only in production but even in product recalls when all else fails. As for its treatment of its workforce, all I can say is that the sweat shop is alive and well in the US of A. From ever increasing line speeds that induce injuries, to inhumane treatment of injured workers, this is an industry that has lost all tough with humanity as it chases profits. Sure profits are essential and of course the investors must get a return on their capital. But do they know the human cost (to workers, to customers, to the very fabric of society) of generating this return? Thank you Eric for an eye opening book.	2001-06-13
US	52988759	R2QWL1KUXWG1I5	0345434684	343656718	The Skies Of Pern	Books	3	7	7	N	N	Good in parts, disappointing overall	I have long loved the Pern novels but sadly this book is disappointing. The plot itself runs on two main tracks. First, the resistance of conservatives to the changes in Pernese life following from the learning gained through AIVAS and second, the need for the dragon riders to find a new role for themselves, post-thread. However, in trying to weave the two together, the book ends up trivializing both. Neither the psyche nor the inner motivation of the \\"Abominators\\" is delved into; the various events of sabotage occur almost in the background. One gets the feeling of large scale resistance acts; yet there is little detail of the kind of people or organization needed to arrange such attacks.  The book is best where it does explore the effect of change on Pern - evidence the discontent of the Runners who fear Dragonriders displacing their role. Sadly, this is not taken further. On the other hand, the book does an excellent job of introducing dragon telekinesis and deriving a use for it. Yet again however, this seems to happen almost in passing and still the reader senses it long before the characters themselves work it out. Flashes of the old Anne McCaffrey are there in the description of the evacuations at tsunami time and the tremendous battle with the felines. On the whole however, the book does not live up to the Pern standard. Old canons of dragon life, so clearly laid down by McCaffrey are cavalierly disregarded to the point of confusion. On finishing the book, I was left with a feeling as if I had sat down to a good meal yet rose from the table still empty.	2001-06-12
US	52988759	R2GB8HY6AEVNGI	0553290991	166385709	Nightfall	Books	4	40	41	N	N	Not as good as the short story, but still worth a read.	This book expands the original short story \\"Nightfall\\" written by Asimov many years ago. Just about every science fiction aficionado agrees that the original story, based on an Emerson quotation,  is one of the classics of the genre. The basic premise is a superb leap of the imagination. Picture a planet which is part of a six-sun system. The respective orbits of the planet and the six suns are so defined, that one or more of the suns is always in the sky over any part of the planet. As a result, the people of the planet have only the faintest conception of what the absence of light i.e. darkness can be. With no dark night sky, they have no idea of other stars in the universe (forget radio astronomy as an inconvenient abstraction!). As far as they know, they are the masters of the universe. Now picture an unexpected total eclipse, at a time when only one sun is in the sky: a strange and frightening  darkness covers the land, and the night sky now reveals millions of stars looking down on the stunned populace.  How does a society deal with so drastic a blow to its fundamental picture of itself?  In sheer imagination, in boldness, in vision, this story has few equals. The skillful blending of a religious doomsday cult and its interweave with a psychologist and baffled yet striving physical scientists brings out the roles of superstition and rationalism in society.  I still remember the awe that gripped me when I first read this story more than a decade ago.  This collaborative book builds upon the story and introduces some interesting ideas. The use of archaeology to derive the cyclical history of the plant is both imaginative and educative. The longer book format also allows the author to develop the characters more fully than in the short story. The weakness of the book however is the ending; to be fair, the cataclysmic end portrayed in the short story cannot possibly be improved upon. All the book does is stretch out the period of rebirth, adding interesting humanvignettes along the way. I withhold one star for this reason. Do not miss this book, but do try to read the short story of the same name that started it all.	2001-04-04
US	52988759	R3UOVXQKXU2O5K	0575071184	574038835	The End of Eternity (Gollancz SF Library)	Books	5	147	148	N	N	Brilliant!	The fame of Asimov's Foundation and Robot series has tended to steal the limelight from some of his other masterpieces, chief among them, The End of Eternity, a book that is hard to find. In this book, Asimov consciously set out to explore the limits of the classic paradox of time travel that has bedeviled so many works of science fiction. As a result, this is a \\"bare bones\\" novel; no robots or empires or any other such distractions. Its strength lies in imagination. Asimov looks at our world as it has evolved, and then introduces the organization called Eternity, whose mission is to protect humanity from its own mistakes, by making deft changes in key events over time (past and future). Along the way, he has fun making digs at the unchanging fundamentals of human nature (competition, drive, love) amid centuries of changing social mores. At the heart of the book is the love story of Andrew Harlan and Noyes Lambent, but this tale is just a framework for Asimov to build on. In the final analysis, Asimov is making the point that just as a child learns to walk by repeated falls, humanity's ultimate characteristic is the Schumpeterian desire and ability to innovate through risks. If we are protected from ever making mistakes, we may avoid tragedies, but the human race itself will vegetate and die. As with many of his earlier works, the dialog can be jarring and characters often one-dimensional. For all that however, The End of Eternity ranks among Asimov's finest in the field of science fiction and makes it all the more strange why this book is so difficult to find. Do take the time to lay your hands on it; you will not be disappointed.	2001-04-04
US	52988759	R8SMJB30F540I	0553106635	549456361	A Storm of Swords (A Song of Ice and Fire, Book 3)	Books	5	15	16	N	N	Martin shows how it is done!	Martin and his Song of Ice and Fire are so awesome that one runs out of superlatives to use. A Storm of Swords, #3 in the series, starts off deceptively slow and then accelerates to leave the reader clinging on for dear life. The writing is taut and the progression gripping.<br />There are so many things to praise - where does one start?  First of all, the size of Martin's canvas (geographic and emotional) is gigantic. Yet, despite the degrees of complexity, Martin has such a sure grip on the story that he never ever lands up in an inconsistency. Given the sheer size of the project and the number of side-plots, this is a terrific achievement. Apart from the 7 kingdoms of Westeros, we have the old Valyrian region, Braavos &amp; Pentos, the Dothraki Sea and scores of different cultures, religions and beliefs. Martin brings each of them to life, describing key aspects that define them, to a depth that demonstrates how much thought and planning has gone into the saga.<br />Yet, despite the width of the story, Martin's prose is good enough for the reader to actually picture the characters and their surroundings. As a reader, you feel as if you are right there in the scene, be it a scene of battle, realpolitik or sentiment. His story too is high on credibility. Unlike traditional fantasy, Martin's characters are neither sickeningly good nor irredeemably bad. All his \\"heroes\\" have their Achilles heel of honor or character somewhere, succumbing to greed or pride, making them attractively human. So also, all his villains (except perhaps Gregor Clegane, Hoat &amp; the Mummers?) display a stray streak of human decency every once in a while. No stereotyped black and white characters here, just many fine shades of gray. The effect is to make the saga infinitely more real in the reader's mind than traditional fantasy.<br />Not only does Martin bring his characters to life, the reader can perceive the characters growing emotionally as the story progresses. It is fascinating to seehow war and unfeeling injustice temper characters who in the beginning were almost childlike in their innocence, to the point where they seem to have grown up while we were watching. Be warned though, it is very dangerous to develop an attachment or preference for any character considering Martin's amazing track record of killing off his cast. Just as you settle on a figure as being central to the saga, boom, he or she is dead. Never have I seen an author so willing to kill off his best creations as this! Bear in mind too that this is not a series for the faint of heart. This is a brutal and wrenching saga, draining the reader and leaving him or her shaken to the core at man's inhumanity. <br />Last but not least, Martin's capacity to surprise the reader is unmatched. Just as you feel the story is settling into a pattern, Martin breaks the mould with an unexpected  twist. But he is totally in control of the story. For instance, I wondered earlier in Book #1 where the dragons fitted in, thinking they were just a token bow to traditional fantasy. My respect for Martin increased many fold in Book #3 where one now sees the looming Armageddon ahead that will pit the dragons against the Others. This is just one instance of how the many diverse pieces in Martin's giant jigsaw, fit seamlessly into a great picture.  <br />A Song of Ice and Fire has all the makings of a classic. Buy it and hold, this one's a keeper.	2001-01-23
US	52988759	R1D1RDFMVW4DY2	031225346X	931904718	The Prometheus Deception	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Authentic Ludlum, maybe a bit hackneyed though.	Start with the good news: Ludlum is back! With \\"The Prometheus Deception\\", Ludlum has laid to rest the ghost of the awful Matarese Countdown which one can now forget as an unfortunate aberration. Prometheus is back to the classic Ludlum: fast paced action, complex plot, protagonist facing overwhelming odds, gripping deceptions. <br />The story itself is quite ingenious and contemporary. As always Ludlum's protagonist (here Nick Bryson) is up against a global conspiracy that has managed to subvert conventional lines of authority and is so well buried that nobody realizes that what they see is only the tip of the iceberg. And as always, the conspiracy is on the cusp of taking over and our hero has just a few days to save the world. Ludlum's threat is quite clever; he has built on the acknowledged erosion of privacy that the Internet has resulted in. The big kahuna of the bad guys is a software genius who owns a gigantic Seattle based software corporation that dominates the business and owns a billion dollar \\"smart\\" lakeside mansion (now who does that remind me of........). Ludlum verges onto sci-fi territory however with his extrapolations of surveillance capabilities (imagine copter based equipment, let alone a satellite, able to identify not just a car license plate but the facial features of the driver and passenger in it - pretty fancy tech that). <br />From any other author, this book would be top notch; for Ludlum though, it falls in comparison to his own high standards. The plot, for all its contemporary flavor, has been re-hashed once too often. Nick Bryson, unlike earlier Ludlum heroes, is literally invincible and can execute Houdini like escapes from any trap, leaving you with a feeling of disbelief. Ultimately, disbelief is what does you in; unlike earlier Ludlums where you were never quite sure if it was fact or fiction, Prometheus never quite convinces you it is more than a yarn. The old buzzwords of \\"mergers and acquisitions\\" that worked in the 80s seemout of place here and one gets the feeling that Ludlum is not exactly sure of his ground. The finale too is unconvincing and it stretches credulity that the billion dollar mansion has no fallbacks in security and damage control (I am being vague to avoid giving away the ending).  All in all a good book, miles better than the execrable Matarese Countdown, but way below the Bourne Series. Worth a read.<br />Incidentally, Ludlum's protagonists are always male; the token female interest is mostly ornamental and nurturing with occasional flashes of intellectual input. Not quite a new Millennium after all!	2001-01-03
US	52988759	R2WUHAF1IL9IT0	0312864256	870089682	Winter's Heart (The Wheel of Time, Book 9)	Books	2	10	12	N	N	Deja vu	I am slowly starting to wonder if RJ is still writing the Wheel of Time Series or has a ghost writer taken over? Books 1-5, maybe even 6 were top drawer. RJ pained his world in bold strokes, we got detailed descriptions, the main characters were developed, the story clearly progressed. Most important of all, these books gripped the reader; it was a real struggle to lay them aside for food or rest!<br />After that, some taint (!) seems to have struck down the writer. The pace of events has become glacially slow, the plot line seems to meander in a sluggish maze, the very quality of the writing seems to have become sloppy. The characters do not grow and develop further; instead they seem almost to regress.  What happened to the RJ who wrote that fascinating time slice view of Aiel history, who expounded the meaning of ji'-e-toh, who described for us the testing of the Accepted?<br />One gets the feeling that Tor and RJ are taking the readership for granted. Take the size of each new volume. Picking up #9, it feels as long as the earlier ones. But look again at the typeface and you realize that #9 for instance is barely 70% as long as Book 1. This tactic was apparent in Book #8 as well and has been repeated in #9. In fact, Books 7-8-9 could easily be boiled down to one of maybe two at most. But three books earn more royalties than two I realize. The impact of this reduction in size is also apparent on the plotlines. Earlier, RJ could keep his sub-plots under control as the length of the book gave him enough leeway to sort them out. Now with the book size reduced, he no longer has the room to sort out the sub-plots, leaving messy loose ends. As a result, the main plot line suffers in the sea of sub-plots and cannot progress. Book 8 ended with Egwene's Aes Sedai and Gareth Bryne's army poised to attack Tar Valon. Now in Book 9 we find that the army is not yet half as big as it needs to be for this task! In fact Book 9 has absolutely no mention of the Salidar Aes Sedai. Where is the continuity? Perrin appears for a few brief pages in the beginning of Book 9 and disappears, leaving us no wiser about his fate than after Book 8. By the end of Book 9, Mat has barely started his escape from Ebou Dar; Book 8 ended with him trapped there!<br />Huge discontinuities start to tear the fabric. Suddenly Rand appears in Far Madding but why exactly will he find the apostate Ashaman here rather than anywhere else? No idea. Suddenly, almost in passing we confirm our suspicions as to the former identities of Cyndane and Moridin. RJ spelled out Moghedien's leashing for us but not a word on how Aginor, Balthamel, Ishamael or Lanfear got their new lease of life. For that matter, if Moridin is Nae'blis, how come Mesaana and Semirhage don't even bother to acknowledge him, far less take orders from him? Rand apparently went to Far Madding to deal with the renegade Ashaman, then suddenly, out of the blue, he announces that he will cleanse the taint on saidin. How did he learn how to do that? Was it Herid Fel's undisclosed clue? How did he know to use the choedan kal for this purpose? For that matter just what exactly does he do to remove the taint? No idea. At the finale, the taint is cleansed, but apart from Aginor, what happens to the other defeated Forsaken? Blank.<br />Apart from the story elements, again Book 9 sticks with the same old old hackneyed map, has no proper recap of the immediate past and the wretched excuse for a glossary is so paltry that I wonder why RJ bothered with it at all, except maybe to get 6 more pages.<br />I think it would be instructive for Tor / RJ to run an analysis of sales of each book in the series. I will stick my neck out and predict that the earlier volumes sold more in hardcover as well as paperback to individuals, the last two will have been bought by proportionally less individuals and more by libraries. Many of RJ's readers, who earlier would have given his WOT books pride of place on their bookshelf are getting disillusioned and falling back on the public library. You see Mr. J., we are hooked and we do want to know how the saga pans out, but we will not throw good money after bad. Wake up and smell the coffee please. The people criticizing you on this page are not fools, we are the same ones who praised your earlier work and who are saddened by the deterioration. Please stop taking us for granted - I'm assuming you do occasionally visit these feedback pages and care what your readers think.disillusioned and falling back on the public library. You see Mr. J., we are hooked and we do want to know how the saga pans out, but we will not throw good money after bad. Wake up and smell the coffee please. The people criticizing you on this page are not fools, we are the same ones who praised your earlier work and who are saddened by the deterioration. Please stop taking us for granted - I'm assuming you do occasionally visit these feedback pages and care what your readers think.	2000-12-26
US	52988759	R31Y1Y53BAGU18	014028902X	888618380	My Family and Other Animals (Classic, Nature, Penguin)	Books	5	15	17	N	N	Guaranteed to bring a smile to your face!	This book is my secret weapon against depression and the blues. I have never been able to read it without collapsing into helpless laughter (and I have lost count how many times I have read it!). In the book, GD describes his boyhood sojourn on the Greek island of Corfu and while the various animals and birds are fun, the most interesting specimens are the humans. Start with GD's own family, a wonderfully eccentric English mother, his 3 siblings with their own peculiar foibles, the innumerable friends on Corfu who add their own twists to the story and you have a bubbling cauldron indeed. The humor ranges from the tongue in cheek to the cannonball but it never lets up. The episode of the scorpions is my personal favorite but it is hard to pick a favorite when there are so many contenders. GD's descriptions of the various personages is superb and his retelling of anecdotes very good indeed. His particular gift is to make the non-human creatures interesting. Both human and non-human characters alike come alive and seem to spring from the pages. And GD's love for nature comes through in his descriptions of the surroundings; you can almost feel yourself in the story. One realizes that not only was GD a first rate naturalist, he was a very good writer as well. This book is a guaranteed pick-me-up; it will bring a smile to your face no matter how tired or sad you may be. A warning though: it is very dangerous to read this book in public. Before long you will be chuckling away to yourself as you turn the pages and people in your vicinity will start to harbor grave doubts as to your sanity!	2000-11-08
US	52988759	R3SEKH86EHZV4B	0312857055	361278280	Wizard's First Rule (Sword of Truth, Book 1)	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Excellent - hard to put down.	Of late, I get skeptical with multiple volume sagas, but Wizard's First Rule (WFR) has a lot going for it. First of all, the characters are unpretentiously realistic. Throughout the book, despite their respective gifts, the protagonists retain their essential human traits of jealously and insecurity, refreshing counterpoints to their undoubted merits. These are no infallible superbeings, thank God. The downside to their abilities too is spelled out clearly as Terry Goodkind (TG) brings out the cost to them of exercising their powers. For that matter, the villain, wicked as he is, is not pure unalloyed evil either. Clearly, TG deals in many shades of grey, and not pure black and white. Secondly, TG has introduced some interestingly novel concepts like the magic of the Confessors, the Mord-Sith. A number of reviews have protested the graphic violence and sexual assault depicted but I must disagree. Yes, the depictions are gory and make your stomach twist, but their integrity to the story line is beyond question. It is only as you continue past the first volume that you realize how important to the saga these harsh scenes are. For all that, there are flaws aplenty. Some of TG's concepts are almost insultingly silly like classifying magic as Additive and Subtractive (I suppose he was trying to avoid the hackneyed white vs. black or good vs. evil, but this is a pathetic substitute) or short tailed gars being smart because they count their blood flies (Puhleeze!). Also the absence of a prologue is unsettling and the quality of the maps is terrible. Why do fantasy authors never realize that a reader needs maps to picture a new world? Figuring the geographic location of the characters from the maps provided is a task for the very gifted indeed. First time readers would do well to first read \\"Debt of Bones\\",  a short story by TG, set prior to the events of WFR, (which can be found in \\"Legends : Short Novels by the Masters of Modern Fantasy\\" edited by Robert Silverberg) as this provides some context for the saga. All in all, a very good beginning and a must for fantasy fans. Be warned, this book is insidiously hypnotic. Once you start reading, you will find it very difficult to stop!	2000-11-03
US	52988759	R1D57MJ8PE6G8	0891902791	221079162	Dialogues With the Devil	Books	4	77	78	N	N	Unsettling book - makes you wonder!	This is one of those books where the author is almost incidental; the protagonists (Michael and Lucifer) have taken over the book completely. I thought when I began the book that this was just another cute idea, but soon found myself lost in the power of the debate within the first few pages. This is an unsettling book. It manages to challenge just about every idea and comes up with some real insights. For instance the genuine love of Lucifer for the Creator! Not at all what one would expect from scriptures! The fatal antagonism springs from Lucifer's near indignation over the imperfections of humankind, which in his distorted perception are an affront to the Creator and his works, and hence must be wiped out. Mercy has no place in Lucifer's Weltanschaung; a jealous pride dominates all other emotions. Yet he is not a figure of evil per se; his motivation is to vindicate himself before the Creator, and to that end he is prepared to lay waste to all. By contrast Michael, despite the classical illustrations of a stern visage with a flaming sword, is painted as a personage of deep empathy, rather than vengeance. Each time I have re-read this book it has left me shaken and humbled, and I have learned new insights each time. When first published this book must have raised a storm. Today, it is still a prize, even though many of its gender and other stereotypes, now outdated, can be annoying at times. Try to read it in the context of its times. Also the Judeo-Christian theological context makes for a restricted readership. For all that however, this has a firm place on my shelf of favorites. Well worth a try.	2000-10-20
US	52988759	R1IR4V87X1FU7Z	0671252771	643796900	Windhaven	Books	4	20	23	N	N	Quirky, but fascinating	The great thing about George R.R. Martin is his uncanny ability to write superb books in different sub-genres. Windhaven is a classic tale of a pebble generating massive waves in a placid pond. Till Maris rebels, the placid populace of Windhaven never thinks to question the feudal hold of the flyers and their hereditary rights. Even Maris rebels not so much on general principle but because she is personally impacted. However as the story progresses, she grows in maturity till by the end, her battle is totally on account of principle. As with change in any feudal society, you have the classic instances of resistance by vested interests, friends unable to understand, relationships being broken because the non-revolutionary partner cannot or will not mature along with the rebel, the sheer horror when choosing principle over sentiment can mean the end of a lifelong friendship. Science fiction or fantsay may be the genre, but Martin's stregth is the painting of Windhaven, its way of life, its people. There are no &quot;bad&quot; characters as such, just ordinary people, each with their own circumstances and motivations. Here is Martin's forte: in explaining the various motivations, he brings the characters to life and makes it easy to identify with this world, totally alien as it may be. The juxtaposition of the familiar and the strange is so well done as to be almost seamless. The end too is inspired. This is not the traditional &quot;lived happily ever after&quot; tale. As with most events in the book, the end is bitter sweet and reflective of real life. Recommended to any fan of good reading, science fiction of otherwise. Thios is an author who is much under-rated.	2000-10-18
US	52988759	R13BY66O0UV4YW	0345322401	193021593	The Songs of Distant Earth	Books	5	5	7	N	N	This is wonderful - story telling at its best	Songs of Distant Earth is one of my personal favorites from out of all Arthur Clarke's works. The title itself is hauntingly magnetic and this haunting note is a motif for the entire book. I have always maintained that the best science fiction is the type that looks at people and social relationships over future times, not just the bells and whistles of space warps and so on. Songs of Distant Earth is the perfect example; simple on the surface, complex below the skin. Picture a peaceful, near pastoral society in any age that has been long separated from a historic past. They may occasionally wonder how they got this way, but by and large are content to live life the way it is. Then out of the blue, the long lost past suddenly arrives and they must confront not only their past but their future as well. The sudden influx of strangers, different in outlook, in vision, in sheer virility of life rudely shakes the pastoral by its very presence. Even though the intruders have no wish to disrupt the status quo, their very arrival has unalterably changed matters. Over time, the newcomers gain an appreciation of the islanders' apparently placid yet deeply intertwined way of life. In return, some of their youthful challenge rubs off on the islanders. Clarke's exploration of human characters and relationships is among the best in the business. You can easily understand and identify with the people, their dreams, their hurts, their rising above their sorrows. And as with all of Clarke's books (at least his early works) the lyrical turn of prose and the quirky, subtle use of humor is  beautiful. This is a book I have re-read many times and it will always be on my shelf of favorites. Read it, it doesn't matter whether you are a sci-fi buff or not, this is a classic read beyond genres.	2000-10-18
US	52988759	R2R0IAD2RE5L45	1559705159	922755710	The Hinge Factor: How Chance and Stupidity Have Changed History	Books	3	9	12	N	N	Great concept but not too well executed	This is a book for anyone with an interest in either history or even human  psychology. The concept itself is sharp; ED is focusing on critical points  in historical battles that swung the result either way. This has often been  attempted in sports (tennis matches, cricket etc.) but applying it to  military strategy is tougher and ED deserves praise for his attempt. The  choice of battles focused on is good (though Troy was perhaps a nod to  sentiment?) if rather Euro-centric (no room for Alexander's drive to Asia,  the Egyptians, Persians, Mongols, Moghuls?). ED brings alive not only the  key generals but also gives a voice to the common soldiers and sailors, a  device that makes the following bloodshed all the more poignant. His  descriptions of Waterloo, Balaclava, the sinking of the Bismarck are first  rate. It is pretty sobering when you realise that so many key points in  history have been decided by the sheer stupidity or stubbornness of men and  not just the brilliance of the opposition! That said however, the book is a  letdown in two ways. First, ED's closing &quot;what-if&quot; analysis,  where he looks at what might have happened if the battle went the other  way, is rather shallow. He examines only a few possible branches and even  those are summarily dismissed. The analysis is pedestrian  and one gets the  impression he wants to rush on to the next battle and get back in the thick  of action rather than analyse. Second, I cannot imagine analysing a battle  without proper maps. ED provides at best a static battlefield snapshot to  show the troop placements and thrust directions. But given that most of the  battles took place in a very different political geography, you do need an  atlas and a time machine to really appreciate the strategies involved.  Period maps in addition to the battlefield snapshots would have got him his  4th star. Well worth a read if you lower your expectations and remember the  title is an exaggeration.	2000-08-22
US	52988759	R3B6QJWT0VUTQQ	0875300006	252614407	ADC's Street Map of Northern Virginia	Books	5	8	9	N	N	Excellent - highly recommended	When I moved to Northern Virginia, from India, I found myself having to learn very fast how to motor around the area. In this, ADC's Street Map of Northern Virginia was a life-saver for me. I have lost count of how many  hours I have spent poring over its pages to find out how to get to stores,  offices and touristy places. The individual page maps are well laid out  with colors used thoughtfully to contrast, without being garish. The text,  by and large, is easy on the eyes, barring the smaller street names which  require some squinting. Exhaustive index pages make finding streets and  locations a piece of cake. Best of all, the maps keep in mind the differing  perspectives of drivers as well as pedestrians. In fact, now that I am well  familiar with the area, I often find myself flipping the pages just for the  sheer peasure of it or to find something new. I must mention in particular  the layout maps of the local airports, which are a great help for the  unwary. For anyone who has just moved into this area or who wants to  explore and discover the area better, there is no better book. Highly  recommended!	2000-06-28
US	52988759	R24P0EMBAWD4MB	0151446474	444581246	The Name of the Rose	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Like an Onion - sharp with many layers.	The beauty of this book lies in its multiple layers. Like an onion, you peel away a layer only to find another below it. On one level, it is a straightforward murder mystery as William of Baskerville with the  &quot;aid&quot; of Adso of Melk tries to identify the perpetrator of a  series of ghastly murders at a medieval Benedictine abbey. And a rollicking  good mystery it is too. Then as you peer deeper, you realise that Eco is  having some fun with sly parodies, Sherlock Holmes being the most obvious.  You also come to appreciate how Eco uses the murder and its dramatis  personae as actors in a Greek tragedy, each arguing a philosophical  interpretation which his persnality embodies. Its one of those cases where  you not only enjoy the book, but raise your hat in silent tribute to the  skill of the author. Eco is also very good at atmosphere and manages to  recreate the intrigues, petty politics and religious fanaticism of the  Inquisition era and its effect on a disparate grouping of people, united  (if so) only by a love of learning and a shared view of God. The terrible  conflagration which destroys the Library is perhaps Eco's most telling  point of all and hits you hard. Do not get put off by the philosophical  discussions or the occasional meanderings of reason, try to understand why  Eco is bringing them up. And do not fear the Latin and Greek. Get hold of  an annotated translation and I promise you your enjoyment will be  multiplied. Yes, this book demands some work; it is not a  commuter novel.  But it is well worth the effort.	2000-06-13
US	52988759	R3FW4VGIRESEWY	0312867425	709703711	Brotherhood of the Wolf (The Runelords)	Books	3	15	17	N	N	Drops the pace, but still good	Novelty was a key positive for the first book of Farland's series (Runelords) and obviously this novelty of the endowments concept is no longer there for the second book (Brotherhood). To that extent, book 2  drops in pace and the series shifts closer to the run of the mill variety.  In fact, the magic of the elements is more to the forefront in this book,  than endowments, despite some half-hearted attempts to debate the issue.  The battle scenes are surprisingly well done, especially the climactic  fight between humans and reavers before the walls of Carris. But Farland  seems to be going the Jordan way with exploding sub-plots, large gaps in  the story line and pathetic excuses for maps. We have no real idea of the  reavers and their motivation (why did they emerge suddenly now? What do  they want?) but now out of nowhere, the child skyrider Averan develops an  understanding by eating their brains - sheesh. The green woman was  obviously the wylde, but where was she between her creation and now? Why  was she falling from the heavens? And where do the \\"world-worms\\" fit in all  this? For that matter, Farland never clearly outlines what drives Raj Ahten  to his excesses and the motivation of most of the characters is extremely  vague.  I had feared while reading Runelords that Farland would be tempted  to extol his philosophy instead of letting it flow with the story and my  fears seem to have come true. By the end, if Gaborn and the Earth both seem  confused as to what he is expected to do, the reader is no less bemused. It  still is a book with promise and hence the 3 stars, but I do hope Farland  knows where he is heading; I for one am not sure at all and considering the  way he started, that is a shame.	2000-06-08
US	52988759	RTY13FORMBULT	0812541626	894162627	The Sum of All Men (The Runelords, Book One:)	Books	4	26	33	N	N	Interesting concept, not so well developed	As in chess, so too in fantasy, a new idea is a welcome development. Farland's series is a good change from the standard creator vs. evil one genre of Tolkien, Jordan et al. The idea of a feudal economy where wealth  is not just material but in the form of endowments of human attributes,  with the beneficiary lord then having to care for the drained donors is  intriguing indeed and Farland deserves full credit for his innovation. The  magic of the elements too is well brought in. However, I always get a bit  wary when authors try and push a personal philosophy too strongly, instead  of letting it flow with their story and Farland comes perilously close to  doing this. I hope it does not go the way of Dune where Herbert's  philosophical meanderings ultimately crowded out the story itself (yes, I  do know  Dune is science fiction and not fantasy). My other crib is that  Farland falls prey to a prevailing laziness among fantasy writers and does  not explain the context of his world. No doubt, it is all clear in his  mind. But as a reader, I have questions. What are the toth and duskins  which vanished from the earth and whose loss carries lessons for Gaborn?  Why should the earth be so concerned about humans vis--vis the reavers on  objective principles? What exactly (description, habits) are reavers and  hujmoth and glories? The book has no coherent answer and this detracts from  the quality. Nor are the maps of much use either, being too sparse on  details. The impact of Raj Ahten's  attack on Sylvarresta and the retreat  across Mystarria are lost without a proper map for the reader to follow.  That said, the characters are interesting and multi-dimensional and the  story moves well. A promising debut for Farland and worth a try by any  fantasy fans.	2000-06-07
US	52988759	R1AO00JD8POYNP	0812566637	515532352	Legends: Short Novels by the Masters of Modern Fantasy, Vol. 1	Books	5	4	6	N	N	Brilliant! Just what an Anthology should be!	An Anthology must do three things: have a clear focus; select the best representative authors in the genre and, most important of all, grip both veterans as well as newbies in the genre. Legends easily scores high on all  three. The focus on fantasy and short novels is crisp. The choice of  authors is inspired. Anne McCaffrey, Terry Goodkind, Robert Jordan, Ursula  LeGuin, George Martin and Silverberg himself are easily top draws in the  fantasy business and the others are no slouches either. Silverberg has  written short but invaluable background pieces that beautifully set the  context of each individual story. So a new reader does not need to know the  individual milieu of each story but can plunge in head-first. To  Silverberg's and his authors' credit, many of the stories have been so set  that they do not spoil the suspense or give away any secrets of the main  books. Thus Jordan's story is set prior to The Eye of the World, Goodkind's  prior to Wizard's First Rule and Martin's prior to Game of Thrones and they  each set the stage for the respective series. No doubt, LeGuin's Earthsea  story is in the middle, as are the King and Silverberg stories but they  still do not reveal the twists to an unwary reader. I do not propose to  review each individual story except to say that Martin, LeGuin, Silverberg  and Goodkind are first class, Jordan and McCaffrey not far behind. The  others, I am less happy with but that may be my bias. For any reader who  loves fantasy, this is a &quot;must-have&quot; book. And for a reader  wishing to learn what this &quot;fantasy stuff&quot; is all about, there  can be no better starter volume. Highly recommended!	2000-06-05
US	52988759	R1NQYBZE68JBXS	081293265X	117438870	Times Atlas of the World : 10th Comprehensive Edition	Books	5	50	50	N	N	Expensive, but worth it	If, like me, you love and can spend hours poring over a map, then the Times Atlas will blow you away. A massive heavy tome (well it maps the whole earth after all!), it is meant to be laid flat on the carpet while  the reader sprawls on his / her stomach to browse. The most important thing  about an Atlas, apart from accuracy, is that it should be up to date and  the Times scores high here. The maps are large, the colors gentle and easy  on the eye, the print quality is superb. Some of the text is sadly a bit  small for my aging eyes but the maps, which most readers will concentrate  on are top notch. Perhaps a bit expensive for home usage, though I like to  think that this one is a keeper; you need to amortise its cost over a  decade or more. Small businesses and homes with growing children wanting to  learn about the world will love this book. Worth a splurge.	2000-06-05
US	52988759	RBNYN4DSTG5IH	0679454330	889335570	The Global Soul: Jet Lag, Shopping Malls, and the Search for Home	Books	1	12	12	N	N	Rambling and disjointed	I am disappointed with this latest book of Pico Iyer. He is a fine writer and has the ability to picture scenes and behavior superbly. But one comes away from Global Soul confused and unfulfilled. Pico rambles and meanders all over the place and the flow from one issue to the next is unclear to  say the least. I was drawn to this book not only by Pico's past work but  also its title. At the end however, one feels Pico has succumbed to jet lag  and is lost in some mall, never to reach home. Better luck next time.	2000-04-24
US	52988759	R29AZ0IAN1264N	0312862199	534145800	The World of Robert Jordan's The Wheel of Time	Books	1	133	163	N	N	Don't waste your money on this empty box!	This has to be the worst case of reader exploitation I havecome across. This book, supposedly a guide to the WOT world simplyrehashes what has already appeared in the first 7 books and contributes precious little that is new. On the plus side, at long last we finally get to see maps of the entire World; Seanchan in slightly better detail, Shara is a largely blank slate and the Isle of the Fisherfolk is not much better. There also appears an Isle of Madmen to the south which makes me fear additional complications to come. I suppose one should be grateful for these maps, despite their paucity of detail, considering that none of the series books contains anything but the same wretched map of the immediate world and pathetic city maps. If at all the book has any new information, it lies in the biographical sketches of the Forsaken, outlining their background and motivation. But the motivations themselves frequently seem to contradict the delineation of the characters in the series, especially Asmodean, and are totally out of sync with the Aes Sedai concept. Shallow is the word that describes these sketches in fact, as also the brief histories of the Seanchan and the other peoples. Bad proof reading is compounded by some of the worst illustrations I have even seen. The artist has obviously not read the books, so blatant are the contradictions. Look at the pciture of Lanfear and tell me if this is the most beautiful woman ever! Or the caricatures (I can't call these illustrations) of Galad, Lan or Aviendha for instance and match them with their characters. And would you believe that Min, who plays such a key role in the series, is not even mentioned anywhere! Some Guide indeed. Or perhaps we should be grateful there is no illustration of Min at least. This &quot;book&quot; is nothing but a bare faced attemnpt by the publisher to (get) money from fans who are hooked onto the series. Do not fall for it. I think TOR and RJ owe an apology and a refund to anyone who bought this (book). I am giving it 1 star because the system does not permit anything less.  END	2000-04-21
US	52988759	RH6F90BRHG2BI	0812550293	504533718	The Path of Daggers (The Wheel of Time, Book 8)	Books	3	0	0	N	N	A filler, not a book.	The Path of Daggers (TPOD) is more of a filler than a book really. I don't mind books that are several hundred pages long, in fact I prefer them, but there has to be some method to the madness. Most of TPOD is devoted to little side streams of the plot while the main river is inexplicably  ignored. I almost yelled in relief when the Bowl of the Winds chapters  finally got over, so much has RJ stretched this sub-plot. Meanwhile,  Sevanna's Shaido continue to meander with no clear purpose, the second  Seanchan invasion is repelled, and a minor Inquisition begins among the  Tower Aes Sedai. More and more however, one feels great unease at Jordan's  caricature treatment of his female characters. After reducing Elayne and  Nynaeve in particular to a pair of squabbling juveniles, the behavior of  the Atha'n Miere (experienced sea captains at that!) and the Kin turns out  to be no less immature. These are the women who are to undo a major ploy of  the Dark Lord and they squabble over their pecking order and egos like  little kids! Take Elaida too, probably one of the stronger female  characters in RJ's work.  After dominating the Tower and seizing the Seat  with the force of her personality, she crumbles into powder at the first  sign of trouble and falls prey to her Keeper! Totally unconvincing! Egwene  is masterful, but the sheer stupidity of her Council is ridiculous. At the  end of the book, one is left with a sense of incompleteness. The silver  lining is that the Salidar Aes Sedai finally reach Tar Valon and Gareth  Bryne's attack on the White Tower is imminent. Hopefully the next book  (Winter's Heart?) due in November will tell about the siege. Also, Mr.  Jordan, please note that you cannot describe a battle scene without decent  maps. All through Rand's driving the Seanchan back, one longed for a proper  map of the area. But still good enough for 3 stars on the strength of the  series.	2000-04-19
US	52988759	R37KQENXTSY5DM	0312857675	557548547	A Crown of Swords (The Wheel of Time, Book 7)	Books	3	4	5	N	N	The bounce is lacking!	A Crown of Swords (ACOS) marks the series starting to flounder. On the positive side, Jordan's story-telling skill shines through in many places like for instance the cour'souvra episodes. Also my favorite character Min at last comes into her own and more than proves her worth. Tyelin's pursuit  of Mat is hilarious. Egwene's struggle to assert herself with the Aes Sedai  is excellent. At long last comes the decisive battle with Sammael, long in  the planning, and the choice of Shaddar Logoth as the fateful venue is  inspired. But the negatives are starting to pile up as well. The juvenile  wrangling of Elayne and Nynaeve is tiresome and just not in keeping with  their characters as Wisdom and Heir respectively. Morgase, who has been  Queen of a realm behaves in equal immature fashion. RJ does not seem to  have a very good opinion of women. His suggestion that Nynaeve,  post-marriage, is more sensible when Lan is around is almost insultingly  sexist as if to suggest she just needed a strong husband to settler her  temper down. RJ is also leaving large gaps. He just informs the reader,  almost offhand, of their marriage, performed by the sea folk. Considering  the interest in this denouement, it is amazing that he does not tell us  more about the marriage itself. Instead, he increases the complications in  this already complex plot. In addition to two reincarnated Forsaken, we now  have a new Nae'blis pretender called Moridin (who is he? Where did he drop  from? No answer). As if to balance the sides, RJ brings in a legendary Aes  Sedai, Cadsuane (how come nobody ever mentioned hide nor hair of her before  this?). And the Seanchan, after disappearing in Book 2, now reappear in  force in Book 7. Still a good book, but one gets the strong feeling that RJ  has lost control and is himself not quite sure where it will all end.	2000-04-19
US	52988759	R2K1P3BM7ZCLK9	0312854285	861837137	Lord of Chaos	Books	3	5	8	N	N	Chaos starts to rule!	Lord of Chaos (LOC) is Volume 6 of the saga and in many ways the last sputtering of brilliance in the saga.   There are good points, sure. The Dark Lord is heard from at last, we see more interaction between the  Forsaken, which outlines their characters better than descriptions, the  terrible battle at Dumai's Wells is well painted. But now Jordan is clearly  stretching out each episode to the point where it becomes painful. TOR  Books seems to have been too overawed by Jordan for whoever was edited the  book obviously did little or nothing.  The phrases get repetitive enough to  madden the reader. Every woman for instance \\"folds her arms beneath her  breasts\\". Sorilea thinks every woman whom she likes has \\"hips mean for  babies\\". What happened to the famous imagination? Wake up editor and smell  the coffee. Jordan also introduces fresh complications in an already  complex saga by reincarnating two Forsaken, evidently Aginor and Balthamel,  for what purpose, nobody knows.  But the biggest disappointment is Jordan's  treatment of female characters. I thought that here at last is a true  adventure of equals with both men and women playing starring roles. But the  women spend most of their time arguing like cats and then get stuck with  inconsequential parts. The weather may be a problem; Jordan never quite  explains why; and it seems the quest for the Bowl of the Winds (so  conveniently and unconvincingly seen in a dream! please!) seems more  a  device to get them out of the way. Jordan also appears to believe in a   real war of the sexes. All the women are arrogant, consider men a bunch of  idiots, (\\"need their ears boxed daily on general principle\\") and behave in  the most juvenile manner imaginable. Rather than have such caricatures of  female characters, I would rather have a male-only book. And Jordan's  contempt for his readers as seen in his glossary is profound. The glossary  if anything, is smaller than his earlier books! Why have those wretched  incompletepages at all? As for a decent map of the world, forget it. Down  to 3 stars this time I am afraid.	2000-04-08
US	52988759	R2CRWFSM1ITGFR	0812513738	968535658	The Shadow Rising (The Wheel of Time, Book 4)	Books	4	20	21	N	N	Wonderful!	The Wheel of Time turns and brings Volume 4 of the saga, TheShadow Rising (TSR). For my money, TSR (perhaps along with Volume 5)form the peak of the series, before it meanders and loses itself. In TSR Rand edges ever closer to his destiny and we start to understand the Aiel, that fascinating people based on Frank Herbert's Fremen of Arrakis. We learn a bit more about Min (my favorite character of all!). Perrin too comes fully into his own in TSR as the attack on the Two Rivers reaches a crescendo. The White Tower is shaken with dissension. The Atha'an Miere or the Sea Folk also make their appearance and one can sense how the Dragon is slowly but surely gathering all his people for the final campaign. But the highpoint of the book is the Rhuidean experience where the history not just of the Aiel but the world of the WOT series is recapitulated as series of time capsules. At long last, many of the threads spun by Jordan... start to make some sense.  The ingenious manner of the unveiling of these threads is almost enough to make one forgive Jordan for the absence of a decent prologue to the series.  A book not to be missed; even if you are one of those tired with long plotlines, keep at it and I promise you will not be disappointed. But still only 4 stars for my now patented complains about Jordan's  cartography and the excuse for a glossary of characters and concepts.  END	2000-04-05
US	52988759	RJPUC276KJCMA	0812550307	638271918	The Fires of Heaven (The Wheel of Time, Book 5)	Books	4	6	6	N	N	The best of the series; it's all downhill after this	The Wheel of Time turns and brings Volume 5 of the saga. The Fires of Heaven (TFOH) is IMHO the peak of the Wheel saga; it's all downhill thereafter. But TFOH is well worth reading. The politics of the White Tower  muddy the waters, even as Rand's efforts to rally all the People of the  Dragon gather momentum. The essence of the Aiel, the various warrior  societies and their mission in the series become more clear with every  revelation of their way of life and the fascinating honor code concept of  Ji'e'toh. Egwene's apprenticeship among the Aiel and Aviendha's task of  teaching Rand serve as windows for us to try and grasp the Aiel way of  life. The battle scenes in TFOH are easily the best of the lot so far.  Sadly, it's the same battle scenes that indicate RJ is following the bad  trend of many authors and leaving huge blanks for the reader to fill in; is  it because of laziness? See the description of the desperate battle between  the Shaido and Rand's forces, with Mat battling for all he is worth even as  Couladin himself comes against Mat's position. What happens? We only get a  third party anecdote, several pages later, telling of the outcome, not a  blow by blow account. Is this a new literary device?  For a reader, such  disjointed narratives are very annoying. Padan Fain appears and disappears  yet again in yet another avatar and I for one do not understand where  exactly he fits into the saga; sometimes I wonder if RJ himself is very  clear about this aspect. The rousing climax is superb; unfortunately it is  preceded by the interminable description of Elayne and Nynaeve's odyssey.  Starting with dubious premises, this odyssey seems to have become  self-sustaining with every possible logical ending becoming a new excuse  for the tour to continue. The endless dissension between them also becomes  stale and tiresome; after the way RJ has developed their characters in the  previous books, this sudden descent into juvenile snappishness is  paradoxical. Worse, RJ stretches the point to breaking. Where was the  editor of this book? I still give the book 4 stars because of its clear  strengths. I will not give RJ a 5 however till he comes up with better  cartography.	2000-03-31
US	52988759	R2U920WH6R0DCP	0812513711	820960971	The Dragon Reborn (The Wheel of Time, Book 3)	Books	4	4	6	N	N	It's getting better and better!	The Wheel of Time turns and brings Volume 3 of the saga, The Dragon Reborn (TDR). Oddly, though named after him, Rand al'Thor hardly figures in the book; after striking out on his own near the beginning, he reappears only  towards the end in the climactic battle in the heart of the Stone of Tear.  That climax is actually perhaps the best part of the book. But there are a  number of other good features. The characters of Perrin and Mat are further  developed in TDR and each begins to assume the traits that will, one  presumes, shape their futures as well. Perrin with the wolves and his  wolf-senses, Mat with his gambler's luck and battle sense. The White Tower  is shaken as the Black Ajah emerges from hiding and none knows who can be  trusted. Most significant of all TDR gives us out first real glimpse of the  Aiel and we slowly start to learn about this fascinating people, so  evidently derived from Frank Herbert's Fremen of Arrakis. A super successor  to the first two books and a fascinating read. But read the series in  order; it will not make much sense to you otherwise. There are flaws too no  doubt. After all the build-up to the Horn of Valere in the previous book,  it vanishes into safe keeping and plays no real part in TDR. But I suppose,  when you have a canvas as wide as Jordan has pained for the saga, it is  impossible to keep all threads in play together. A great book. But still  only 4 stars for my now patented complains about the pathetic cartography  and the wretched excuse for a glossary of characters and concepts.	2000-03-02
US	52988759	R3UT01A0D5H77K	0812517725	878255505	The Great Hunt (The Wheel of Time, Book 2)	Books	4	6	8	N	N	Improves on Book 1 substantially	The Great Hunt (TGH) is the second book in the Wheel of Time (WOT) saga and it is in this book that the series begins to roll. The Eye of the World, (Book 1) was frequently annoying because of the author's need to build up the story line and characters, particularly since he is obdurate  about not providing a decent introduction or prologue for the world he has  created.  But now, the launch pad is ready. The Two Rivers group has slowly  but surely lost its innocence and are beginning to realize that there is no  way back; the bridges have been burned behind them. They must finish what  they started or a worse fate will befall them. Rand, Mat and Perrin are  launched none too subtly after the fabled Horn of Valere, an endeavor that  will not only lead ultimately to the finding of the Horn but equally  importantly harden each of them to his destiny. And at long last, the  gender promise held out in the first book is lived up to as the girls,  Egwene, Elayne and Nynaeve begin to take a hand. In many ways, TGH can  claim to be the best of the series. Jordan has clearly hit his stride after  the first book proved successful and his writing is more lively and  attractive. The descriptions of the Seanchan, the humor and gallantry as  the Horn is sounded towards the end are all a treat to read. The  alternative futures of the Portal Stones journey and Nynaeve being tested  for Acceptance with her own fears and hopes are spellbinding. But the  structural annoyances remain from the first book; even here where terrain  and geography are so critical, the single map of the world (that too,  partial) that Jordan grudgingly gives is pathetic. Worse, with the Seanchan  playing so important a role, Jordan provides no indication of where across  the Aryth Ocean the Seanchan lands lie or their geography. Hence, only 4  stars.	2000-02-29
US	52988759	R2J7AL3R5G2VJ0	0812511816	456114433	The Eye of the World (The Wheel of Time, Book 1)	Books	4	17	20	N	N	Classic fantasy saga	The Wheel of Time (WOT) saga is something no fan of fantasy can do without. The Eye of the World is the first book in the series and is largely devoted to introducing the main characters in a complex cast, their  habitat and their personalities. Unfortunately for Jordan, the WOT saga  faces the daunting challenge of Tolkien's Lord of the Rings and comes off  second best. Tolkien's world view, the flow of his story and most of all  the sheer lyricism of his prose, songs, rhymes and the names of places and  persons are impossible to beat and Jordan suffers in comparison. It is also  true that the WOT series draws heavily from Tolkien as well as other  classics of science fiction, particularly the early Dune novels; the  similarities between Fremen-Aiel, Arrakis-Waste, Aes Sedai-Bene Gesserit,  are certainly not coincidental. In Jordan's defence, it is no easy task to  create a world view and a world to go with it, with a creator and classic  good and evil patterns, without following broadly in Tolkien's lead, though  he needn't have gone to such lengths (like Ents=Ogiers, Orcs=Trollocs,  Nazgul=Myrdraal etc.). For all that, The Eye of the World gets the series  off to a good start for a reader with the patience to follow the numerous  characters and sub-plots. Some hard concentration is needed since after all  it is the reader's first look at a different world so be prepared for some  hard work. And Jordan offers no help by way of a decent prologue. In fact,  it is only mid-way through Book 4 (The Shadow Rising) of the series, that  the background to the Forsaken, the attempt to free the Dark Lord, the  Aiel, the Wandering and other skeins of the pattern become clear. It would  greatly help the reader if Jordan had given at least a bare bones prologue.  For that matter, if his prologue is scanty, his glossary at the end is  sparse and full of gaps. Worse, the single map of the world that Jordan  grudgingly gives is pathetic. Numerous places and rivers mentioned in thetext are not to be found in the map and the reader is left vainly switching  from text to glossary to map and back again. Hence only 4 stars for not  caring for your readers, Mr. Jordan. But hey people, don't let my grumbles  deter you. The Eye of the World has its own charm; the innocence of the  main characters in the beginning, the depiction of village life, the sense  of gathering doom and excellently portrayed as the Emond's Fielders, not  quite comprehending what lies ahead of them set off to meet with an  inescapable destiny. Once you finish this first in the series, you will be  hooked and gasping for the next. And don't judge the series by this one  book; wait till you finish at least the first 3.	2000-02-25
US	52988759	R3VPZ01MT9I029	0312850093	456114433	The Eye of the World (The Wheel of Time, Book 1)	Books	4	6	8	N	N	Not to be missed	The Wheel of Time (WOT) saga is something no fan of fantasy can do without. The Eye of the World is the first book in the series and is largely devoted to introducing the main characters in a complex cast, their  habitat and their personalities. Unfortunately for Jordan, the WOT saga  faces the daunting challenge of Tolkien's Lord of the Rings and comes off  second best. Tolkien's world view, the flow of his story and most of all  the sheer lyricism of his prose, songs, rhymes and the names of places and  persons are impossible to beat and Jordan suffers in comparison. It is also  true that the WOT series draws heavily from Tolkien as well as other  classics of science fiction, particularly the early Dune novels; the  similarities between Fremen-Aiel, Arrakis-Waste, Aes Sedai-Bene Gesserit,  are certainly not coincidental. In Jordan's defence, it is no easy task to  create a world view and a world to go with it, with a creator and classic  good and evil patterns, without following broadly in Tolkien's lead, though  he needn't have gone to such lengths (like Ents=Ogiers, Orcs=Trollocs,  Nazgul=Myrdraal etc.). For all that, The Eye of the World gets the series  off to a good start for a reader with the patience to follow the numerous  characters and sub-plots. Some hard concentration is needed since after all  it is the reader's first look at a different world so be prepared for some  hard work. And Jordan offers no help by way of a decent prologue. In fact,  it is only mid-way through Book 4 (The Shadow Rising) of the series, that  the background to the Forsaken, the attempt to free the Dark Lord, the  Aiel, the Wandering and other skeins of the pattern become clear. It would  greatly help the reader if Jordan had given at least a bare bones prologue.  For that matter, if his prologue is scanty, his glossary at the end is  sparse and full of gaps. Worse, the single map of the world that Jordan  grudgingly gives is pathetic. Numerous places and rivers mentioned in thetext are not to be found in the map and the reader is left vainly switching  from text to glossary to map and back again. Hence only 4 stars for not  caring for your readers, Mr. Jordan. But hey people, don't let my grumbles  deter you. The Eye of the World has its own charm; the innocence of the  main characters in the beginning, the depiction of village life, the sense  of gathering doom and excellently portrayed as the Emond's Fielders, not  quite comprehending what lies ahead of them set off to meet with an  inescapable destiny. Once you finish this first in the series, you will be  hooked and gasping for the next. And don't judge the series by this one  book; wait till you finish at least the first 3.	2000-02-08
US	52988759	R15EZWSQOSM1S	0553108034	153810577	A Clash of Kings (A Song of Ice and Fire, Book 2)	Books	5	10	11	N	N	Lives up to A Game of Thrones	Having made a stunningly successful debut into Fantasy with \\"A Game of Thrones\\", Martin continues with the second volume of the Song of Ice &amp; Fire saga, \\"A Clash of Kings\\". To his credit, Martin manages to keep up the  quality of the first volume, despite the number of characters and sub-plots  growing seemingly uncontrollably. In what is perhaps an effort to reduce  the complications,  Martin resorts to killing off some of the main  characters, so that by the end of the second volume, the cast is back to  manageable proportions.  In a sense, it is difficult to review this book as  it is clearly meant as a bridging novel to the upcoming book 3. Without  revealing the story, let me say that the main focus of the volume is to  resolve some of the burgeoning sub-plots and lesser characters. In the  process, Martin does leave one wondering about the cut threads now dangling  in mid-air. Presumably subsequent volumes will connect them up but for the  moment the suspense is awkward. What happens to Melisandre back on  Dragonstone? Does R'hllor play any further part? Where and how does Jaqen  H'gar disappear and will he re-appear? What exactly happens to Jaime  Lannister in the end? What was the point, if any, of Daenerys' Dothraki  Diaspora? When, if ever, will Arya resume her Stark identity? One is left  wondering and a bit unsettled at the lack of answers. But on the plus side,  having got several sub-plots out of the way (for now?) Martin finally turns  to the main plot. The battle (if not the war) for Kings Landing and the  Iron Throne is settled and  the Night's Watch rides north in force; now Jon  Snow must face an unknown and unlooked for destiny. Excellent character  depictions and scene descriptions remain Martin's strength. As many of us  readers suspected, the Imp, sympathetically portrayed by Martin in the  first volume, returns to center stage in the second book and Martin does  appear to be speaking through him.  Still however, Martin refuses to heed  his readers' pleas for a prologue and most annoying of all for me at least,  is unwilling to take the trouble of mapping the geography of his world.  Westeros is slightly better charted in this volume but the Free Cities, the  Dothraki Sea and the rest of his world remain off the edge of the maps.  Please Mr. Martin, do something about this in book 3. For those who have  already read A Game of Thrones, don't miss A Clash of Kings. For those who  are new to the saga, you will do better to read book 1 first (A Game of  Thrones).	1999-12-14
US	52988759	R1TLAUWW52UYAU	0876634889	985281527	Forfaiting : An Alternative Approach to Export Trade Finance	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Top of the Line Guide to Forfaiting	Ian Guild is well known in the Forfaiting (Amazon, please note, your spelling is incorrect!)arena and this book of his has helped many a practitioner and neophyte alike. Starting from basics, the authors outline  the origin of forfaiting, its advantages and drawbacks, the technicalities  behind forfaiting quotations, quote comparision. Most interesting of all  are the key cases discussed which bring out both the operational as well as  legal angles to forfaiting. You do not have to be an expert to understand  the subject; Guild and Harris have a gift for simplifying concepts and  making them easy to understand. Highly recommended, even though the book is  now old.	1999-12-02
US	52988759	R2DIR49XTY51Y5	0553573403	268067011	A Game of Thrones (A Song of Ice and Fire, Book 1)	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Terrific reading.	Fantasy seems to have become the flavor of choice and GeorgeR.R. Martin is a most welcome recruit to the ranks of fantasyauthors. Martin has a top pedigree in the field of science fiction and his first sally into fantasy shows his caliber.  A Game of Thrones is the first volume of an epic series A Song of Fire and Ice and it gets the series off to a running start as it sketches in the great families of Westeros; the Baratheons, the Starks, the Lannisters and the rest of them. This is a world where weather patterns are strangely affected, but the faiths and foibles of humankind remain the same. A sweeping saga follows, of male bonding and betrayal, of feminine wiles and wickedness, of children thrust overnight into adulthood by harsh fate. In effect, Martin is laying the groundwork for the rest of the series, like the first movement of a massive symphony. The book's strength is picturization of scenery and strong characterization. Martin's descriptions of the landscape and the creatures that occupy it is masterful, creating a sharp mental picture of life in these parts. His characters too are sharply delineated (perhaps a bit too sharply? Very little of grey, most of the characters are black or white) and one can easily imagine the crippled Imp making up in wits what he lacks in inches, Robert Baratheon's easygoing and ultimately foolish nature, Ned Stark's fundamental honorableness.  Synopsizing the story is a difficult task; how  does one summarize a saga? In essence, the book sets the stage for the  breakup of the seven kingdoms, driven by incompetence, incest, hate and  plain old fashioned jealousy. Robert is slain through treachery and the  great houses begin to war among themselves. Ambition and greed combine to  fracture the land with new competing kings arising to claim the throne. In  the background, the common people have a hard time of it, the old dynasty's  remnants begin to stir, threatening a possible return and in the far north,  fell creatures out of legend return with the onset of winter to threaten  the very existence of humankind.  A bravura effort indeed. But Martin is careless of his readers needs in 2 major areas. First, though this is a whole new setting in a different world, Martin disdains a prologue, leaving the reader to patch together the history that preceded Robert's ascension to the throne. True there are numerous hints to enable the reader to do so but it can be pretty irritating to assemble the jigsaw. Second, Martin does not appear to like cartography. Westeros, where the story is set for the most part, is mapped perfunctorily at best with huge gaps in geography. The rest of the world (the Free Cities, the Dothraki Sea, the Asshai) are not charted at all. Given how much geography influences the story, it is quite annoying to not have a map to help the reader picture the plot better.  Despite these nit-picks however, I cannot recommend this book highly enough. Do not be put off by its size or complexity; the story is worth the effort of keeping track of multiple threads.legend return with the onset of winter to threaten  the very existence of humankind.   A bravura effort indeed. But Martin is careless of his readers needs in 2 major areas. First, though this is a whole new setting in a different world, Martin disdains a prologue, leaving the reader to patch together the history that preceded Robert's ascension to the throne. True there are numerous hints to enable the reader to do so but it can be pretty irritating to assemble the jigsaw. Second, Martin does not appear to like cartography. Westeros, where the story is set for the most part, is mapped perfunctorily at best with huge gaps in geography. The rest of the world (the Free Cities, the Dothraki Sea, the Asshai) are not charted at all. Given how much geography influences the story, it is quite annoying to not have a map to help the reader picture the plot better.    Despite these nit-picks however, I cannot recommend this book highly enough. Do not be put off by its size or complexity; the story is worth the effort of keeping track of multiple threads.	1999-12-02
US	52988759	R2E2JS984R4VG2	0553579835	306823404	The Matarese Countdown	Books	1	22	23	N	N	This book was not written by Robert Ludlum	I have been a fan of Ludlum's work for years and his Bourne trilogy in particular are all time classics. I also loved The Matarese Circle so when  The Matarese Countdown appeared, I couldn't wait to lay my hands on it. But  there it stopped. This book I struggled to finish whereas earlier Ludlum's  I could not put down. What happened here? The plot is very thin, the  dialogues horribly amateurish. Ludlum's gift was an ability to tip an  unbelievable situation just over the edge and make you think hey, perhaps,  just perhaps, this could happen! Sorry, not this time. The list of  improbable situations is just too long. The plotline is not even 1%  believable. The characters are stereotyped to the limit. The tip off is is  the absence of classic Ludlum phrases and concepts (&quot;lies&quot;,  &quot;madness&quot;) and the absence of a catchphrase (&quot;Perro Nostro  Circulo&quot;, &quot;Cain is for Charlie and Delta is for Cain&quot;) and  so many other Ludlum specialities which gives the game away.<br />I know I  have no formal evidence as such, but for my money, this book was not  written by Robert Ludlum. Only his name has been lent to it. <br />For all  admirers of RL's work, avoid this one if you want to retain your good  memory of him.	1999-10-25
US	52988759	R16HLJ0NUEQ37J	0345315227	284653366	3001: The Final Odyssey	Books	2	1	2	N	N	Far below what one expects from Arthur Clarke.	There is a time to keep going and a time to stop. For the Space Odyssey \\"franchise\\", stop please. The saga began with Odyssey 2001 in stunning form, with the brilliant setting of the opening scene in primordial Africa and developing surely to the Star Child. Odyssey 2010 which followed maintained Clarke's high standards with a compelling story and a fascinating denouement. Odyssey 2061 saw the first cracks in the edifice as Clarke meandered all over with a clumsy and rather amateurish plot, yet managed to retain a bit of the atmosphere and ethos of the saga. By now, fans of Clarke and the saga had grown in number and hence Odyssey 3001 was received with cheers; which however slowly died away as the extent of Clarke's slippage dawned. Frank Poole returns from the dead thanks to the chill of outer space and new medical techniques. His recovery and reintegration into a society which has advanced a millennium is brushed over and loses all force, despite Clarke's using the quote of advanced science appearing magical to a time traveler from the past. Little attempt is made by Clarke to explore this theme despite its immense possibilities. The idea of computer viruses as the ultimate weapon of mankind against the monolith and its masters is ingenious. However the very idea of the monolith's mysterious masters dispassionately weighing Earth and finding its inhabitants wanting is more suggestive of a religious orientation and is perhaps (sorry to be cruel) indicative of Clarke's advanced age. One must add, to be fair, that the novel still sparkles in parts with the typical quirks and quips that Clarke is loved for. The part where a circumcised Poole is rejected by a potential lover who equates circumcision with mutilation is a good example. But one longs for the clarity, the coherence, the brilliance that shine through in Clarke's earlier works. This is an effort that might win a newcomer laurels, but not Clarke. He falls by his own supremely high standards of excellence. Asa fan of Clarke, I am disappointed in this work.	1998-01-12
US	52988759	R3BQG68BQBN35V	0802713025	101055477	The Left Hand of Darkness	Books	4	0	1	N	N	Classic : A must for any SciFi buff	This is science fiction at its best. Le Guin makes just minimal use of technological buzz to set the context and then is off into societal adventure. An envoy from the human Ekumen of Worlds (a kind of federation) visits the frigidly cold planet of Winter to persuade them to join the group. The politics of such a decision are well explored with various players jockeying to get into a position of dominance should the new order come to pass, while others resist any change.<br />The best part of the book however lies in the way LeGuin has created a society where people's gender and sexuality are totally different. On this planet, people's sexuality is so different from us as to seem bizarre. People are of neutral gender, neither male nor female, but for a cyclic period called kemmer when they are almost \\"in heat\\" (I don't mean that negatively, I just cannot think of a better term) and can be of either male or female gender. This totally affects inter-personal interactions : just bear in mind how we tailor our communications (formal or informal) depending on the sex of the person we are addressing. The human character has no choice but to adapt to this environment and his efforts to do so make the book so compelling. <br />Not an easy or fun read, but certainly a thought provoking book.	1998-01-03
US	52988759	R2T9GQZTQOHKN2	0345368991	85405238	The Chronicles of Pern: First Fall	Books	2	3	4	N	N	Disappointingly mediocre	One of the biggest let-downs of all time. Anne's intentions are laudable; the book tries to set the scene for many of the incidents and factors that emerge in the later (Pern chronology-wise) novels. But the book tries to do too much in very short order and ends up as a disjointed series of events, told in a horrifyingly incoherent manner. Only when she concentrates on the beloved dragons in the telling of the founding of Benden Weyr, with Torene and Mihall, does the old gold McCaffrey shine through. I waited for this book with such anticipation and felt like a deflated balloon before I was half way through.  Please Anne, you can do much better than this.	1997-12-26
US	52988759	R3Q04ZXVRKW75M	0345341678	11248610	The White Dragon (Dragonriders of Pern Vol 3)	Books	5	10	10	N	N	I'll never mock Fantasy again!	I always thought Fantasy with its Dragons and such like was strictly for kids and juveniles till by chance I picked up the White Dragon. Picked up and could not lay it aside.  Perhaps I was wrong to begin in the middle, but now, even after reaing many of the series, White Dragon rmains my favourite Pern novel. The story of Jaxom growing to manhood, with his doubts and worries, with Ruth, Menolly, Robinton and of course Sharra, with a continent to discover, Thread to overcome and a whole new world to open up was beyond all my expectations. I immediately began haunting bookstors for the rest of the Pern novels. I also promised never again to knock Fantasy!	1997-12-26
US	52988759	R33U7AKVVNN2HS	0745187854	877978680	The Sunbird	Books	4	37	42	N	N	Excellent, but flawed in its intent.	By far my favorite of Wilbur Smith's books. The plot is a bit fanciful; a man who is scorned professionally as an archaeologist and who carries a chip on his hunchbacked shoulder, his beautiful assistant, his wealthy friend and patron who protects him, bankrolls him, steals his girl. The characters are not exactly innovative and fit well within Smith's genre types. However what makes this book worth repeated reading is the device of using two separated times starring the basically the same characterizations and scenes. The picture of a great ancient civilisation, its norms and culture, its history and glory and its ultimate tragedy is painted in bold confident brush strokes on the canvas of Africa. The descriptions are vivid, the imagination bold. One experiences the vignettes in the lives of Huy Ben Amon and Tanith as mush as Benjamin Kazin and Sally Benator. One rejoices as their lives take shape and love blooms, one mourns as they stumble towards the final tragedy. But moving as it is, the book is fatally flawed by Smith's overt use of it as an allegory for the battle fought by the blacks against the whites of Zimbabwe and South Africa. His sympathies with the latter are evident as he mourns the destruction of a system that though evil, is &quot;better than its proposed replacement&quot;. A book to marvel at and enjoy, but beware of his hidden agenda.	1997-12-26
