US	52980989	RM2SD0QTO4NEW	0316611689	111669427	Mutiny on the Bounty: A Novel	Books	5	38	41	N	Y	A splendid masterpiece of men who went to sea.	MUTINY ON THE BOUNTY is one of the greatest novels of the sea, of the 18th century sailing ships and the men who sailed them. But it is far more than a sea story or an adventure story. It is a splendid examination of the abuse of power and of the necessity for society to maintain support for authority, no matter how greatly that authority may at times by misused.<br />Different people tend to view the novel from faulty subjective viewpoints. Some see Capt. Bligh as a gross tyrant who got exactly what he deserved. But at no time does the narrator of the story attempt to justify the mutiny. Others see Fletcher Christian as a romantic hero, but the narrator makes it abundantly clear that his actions in seizing the ship and endangering the entire crew were misguided, to say the least. Always there is a sound balance and a mature evaluation of the actions of all characters, including the officers of the naval court who try those accused of the mutiny.<br />The novel also presents a beautiful balance of scenes, from the harsh punishments on board the Bounty to the idyllic interlude of life in Tahiti to the appalling existence of prisoners chained hand and foot for months at a time, and from the depths of despair at a sentence of death by hanging to the dazzling strangeness of sudden freedom. Whether it is description of scene or action or feeling, the authors capture the essence of every element of the story with perfect clarity and depth. In short, this is an exceedingly well plotted and well written work of literature, which can be enjoyed by a wide range of readers, not just those who love adventure yarns.	2002-06-19
US	52980989	R2ZBNDUTXY6SN6	0060184957	769627875	Pride, Prejudice and Jasmin Field: A Novel	Books	5	2	2	N	N	A witty parody worthy of the original.	As a retired teacher who has taught PRIDE AND PREJUDICE several times and who considers it one of the greatest of all novels, I found this modern tale to be a delightfully clever reworking of the familiar plot. The device of placing the characters in the cast of a theatrical adaptation of Austen's novel works very well. Of course, those familiar with the original will know in general what is coming, but Ms. Nathan is quite skillful in creating a fine balance; the correlation of incidents is clear, but the transfer to modern situations gives them a new twist which is both believable and unexpected. There is plenty of originality in the plot to keep it from being just a copy.<br />The dialogue is witty and fresh. The characters are well drawn, especially Jasmin/Lizzy, Harry/Darcy, and George/Jane. The development of the relationship between Jazz and Harry, while predictably following Austen's model, is well-motivated and consistent with the personalities and backgrounds of the two main characters.<br />Those who are familiar with PRIDE AND PREJUDICE will certainly get more from Nathan's novel, but there is no reason why it should not be very enjoyable to those who know nothing of the original plot. My main problem while I was reading the novel was the temptation to look ahead and skim later passages to see how the author was going to handle certain key situations that I knew were coming. I hope that readers of this work will be led to read (or reread) Austen.	2002-04-22
US	52980989	R2YFMPEMEU0W3B	9997539877	263695513	The Uninvited	Books	5	10	11	N	Y	One of the best ghost stories ever!	When Roderick and Pamela Fitzgerald (brother and sister) move into an old house called Cliff End on the north Devon coast, they are not worried by the rumors of strange occurrences in the past. However, it is not long before their nights become sleepless nightmares. And when Stella, a new young friend, visits the house, the horrible manifestations intensify. She had lived here as a baby, and her saintly mother died in a fall from the cliff, possibly pushed by a wild young Spanish girl who served as a model for Stella's artist father. Soon it becomes apparent that there are two spirits in the house, one warm and the other terrifyingly cold, and they seem to be battling over Stella. So it becomes a case of abandoning the house or taking extreme measures to determine the truth of the cause of the hauntings and of that tragic occurrence from Stella's infancy. The suspense and the terror build as the brother and sister, with the aid of friends, try to solve the mystery and to protect Stella from unknown dangers. This is one of my top 3 all-time favorite books, and I have reread it every couple of years since I was a teenager. Oh, I don't suppose that it is a classical masterpiece, but it is as believable a ghost story as ever was written. The handling of characters and atmosphere are exquisitely done. The movie is all right, but it cannot begin to capture the intensity of this excellent suspense novel.	2001-08-25
US	52980989	RPFWN2ZRE1X39	0884113221	529853155	Pastoral	Books	5	24	24	N	N	An exciting and endearing wartime love story.	I have 3 favorite novels which I reread every couple of years. Like old friends, I know that I can always turn to them and be sure of several hours of deep pleasure. This is one of those novels. PASTORAL was written during World War 2 and concerns two young people who are serving in the military, but as the title indicates, this is not your typical war novel. Peter Marshall is a veteran pilot of an RAF Wellington bomber, even though he is still a very young man. The flying scenes are excellent, filled with suspenseful atmosphere and excitement. But when he is not in the air, he is the kind of person who takes delight in the simple pleasures of life, rambling over the countryside and fishing with his crew. And after he meets a lovely WAAF officer, Gervase Robertson, who has just joined the signals staff at his airbase, it doesn't take him long to fall in love for the first time. The love story of these two rather innocent and ordinary young people is as real as you'll find in literature, perfectly tracing the progress of their attraction and growing feeling for each other, all intensified by the immense conflict in which they play their small part. True to that time, this does not mean that they are in bed by the second date--no, these are typical, decent youngsters who accept the idea that that sort of thing must wait until marriage. Gervase does not want to give up her part in the war effort to get married, and the tension begins to affect Peter's flying and his relationship with his crew. As one of the senior officers complains exasperatedly, &quot;The great adventure on this station isn't bombing Germany. They don't think anything of that. Falling in love is the big business here.&quot; Eventually we see that maybe falling in love is the big business after all, as the young people come to exemplify all that is best, all that is worth fighting to preserve. Nevil Shute wrote several excellent novels, but I believe that this is his best. It is a shame that it is so hard to find, but used copies are available--and well worth the hunt.hard to find, but used copies are available--and well worth the hunt.	2001-08-25
US	52980989	R28XD57YOYBJ3F	0804114889	41409497	The Riddle of the Third Mile (Inspector Morse Mysteries)	Books	4	12	13	N	Y	Pure vintage Inspector Morse.	When the trunk of a dismembered body is fished out of the canal, Inspector Morse is almost certain that it is Oxford don Browne-Smith, who has recently dropped out of sight. But then a letter, purportedly written by that don, indicates that perhaps the body is that of a different don. But then perhaps the letter is deliberately misleading, and the remains may be Browne-Smith after all. This is one of the most perplexing of the Morse mysteries. The apparent motive is supplied in a World War 2 flashback at the beginning of the novel, when Browne-Smith's cowardice prevents the saving of a soldier who could be the younger brother of a set of twins in the same tank unit, who are now seeking revenge after all these years. But as the novel progresses, the possible identity of the headless, handless, legless corpse keeps changing, and as soon as a new candidate appears, his readily identifiable body pops up elsewhere, until all the probabilities seem to be exhausted. Don't bother trying to guess the outcome of this novel. Just try to keep up with the sudden changes. Morse is at his best here, unraveling the bewildering texture of this complex mystery thread by thread. The characterizations are excellent, and although the overall plot is a bit incredible, it is handled in Dexter's usual smooth style. This is one of the best of the Morse series.	2001-08-24
US	52980989	R2NDPEMYPMVM8R	0684842564	93185568	The Franchise Affair	Books	5	15	16	N	Y	A great mystery novel!	Teenager Betty Kane, bruised and sore after being missing for weeks, claims that she was abducted by two women and coerced into doing maid service for them before she managed to escape. The young girl is very innocent looking and has a spotless reputation. Furthermore, she describes the place of her imprisonment with great accuracy, although the two women, mother and daughter, claim that they have never seen her before.<br />Robert Blair, suddenly bored with the routine law practice which has been in the family for generations, takes on the case for the two women, the younger of whom becomes more and more attractive to him. He is totally convinced of their innocence and develops a burning passion not only to prove them blameless but also to expose the girl as a brazen fraud. But after a scandal sheet exposes the case to the world, public opinion is so strong against the ladies that they and their property are in constant danger.<br />There are some weaknesses in the plot. For instance, after long and diligent investigation by a top-notch private detective, the solution just drops in out of the blue from a most unexpected source. But Tey handles the whole thing so well that it seems perfectly plausible. The characterizations are excellent, and the reader will have a strong sympathy for the women and for Blair. The second half of the book is a real page turner. And the ending has a very nice, satisfying touch. This novel is almost as good as Tey's BRAT FARRAR.	2001-08-19
US	52980989	R2N7ZU682OZNIE	0684842386	594831758	A Shilling for Candles	Books	3	24	28	N	Y	A mediocre mystery.	A popular actress/singer's body is found on the beach. At first it is believed to be an accidental drowning, but soon it becomes apparent that this is murder. The novel begins well, and there are some interesting characters, but then it begins to go downhill. Instead of vintage Tey, we seem to have an Agatha Christie plot, and not the best Christie.<br />There are red herrings galore, a false arrest, 2 escapes, supernatural overtones, and then an unexpected, unprepared for, and totally implausible ending. That the guilty one would have and could have perpetrated the crime in the manner indicated is just beyond belief. The author even has to make her turn out to be insane to create a strong enough motive--no, not nearly strong enough actually.<br />If you want to read excellent Josephine Tey, try BRAT FARRAR or THE FRANCHISE AFFAIR. This one just isn't up to her later standards.	2001-08-19
US	52980989	R2XF9DQ9U0UEE4	0684803852	90910415	Brat Farrar	Books	5	66	68	N	Y	A first-rate mystery of impersonation and deception.	When foundling drifter Brat Farrar is offered the proposition to pose as the aristocratic Ashby family's long-missing heir (whom he strongly resembles), he finds it impossible to resist. What he did not reckon on was the growing attraction to his own \\"sister\\" and the veiled enmity of the younger twin \\"brother,\\" whom he has displaced as the master of the Ashby estate. The author expertly draws the characters so that we always favor the likable Brat, despite his fraudulent part in the scheme. When it becomes obvious that his life is in danger and that there is something decidedly suspicious about the death of the real Patrick Ashby, the suspense builds unrelentingly, keeping the reader's eyes riveted to the book.<br />In addition to the suspense and the excellent characterizations, there is the extremely interesting background of English horse breeding and racing, which the Ashby fortunes are currently built upon.P>Yes, you can see some of the incidents coming ahead of time, but that's the way it is in real life. The author is honest with the reader in letting us know what is developing as the hero himself discovers it. Overall, this is a great read, an excellent novel of suspense.	2001-08-04
US	52980989	R374ZS59OA1974	0345385659	71037778	My Love Affair with England: A Traveler's Memoir	Books	5	2	3	N	Y	A pleasant trip for Anglophiles.	....I enjoyed every scene in the book.<br />Actually the format of the book is a bit disjointed and jumps unexpectedly from one visit to another, not necessarily in chronological order. Also she digresses at times to give us a glimpse of her marriages and brief affairs. But instead of distracting from her narrative, these elements add interest, in my opinion. After all, she is describing a love affair, not offering a travel guide.<br />This certainly is not your usual travelogue featuring the most popular attractions of the nation. Toth usually gets off the beaten path to find the real England, discovering many places and facts that the average traveler would not have the ingenuity nor the energy nor the nerve to uncover.<br />I found the trip thoroughly delightful and am looking forward to reading another of her books about this quirky but fascinating country.	2001-07-12
US	52980989	R16P9O8XOH73QU	0195038347	89984256	Freedom from Fear: The American People in Depression and War, 1929-1945 (Oxford History of the United States)	Books	5	2	3	N	Y	An authentic picture of a crucial period in history.	David Kennedy captures the whole sweep of the momentous events of the 30s and early 40s and gives the reader a thorough immersion in the lives, the trials, and the attitudes of Americans who lived through that era. This is more than just a book of facts. As one who was born and grew up during those troubled times, I renewed many memories as I read, but I also gained new insights into the background of the events that shaped a new world.<br />Perhaps the passage that impressed me most is Kennedy's evaluation of the real legacy of Roosevelt's New Deal. No, it did not really end the depression, and it was hardly the political triumph that most people seem to imagine today. But it did make giant steps in achieving what the book's title indicates: Freedom from Fear, as government began to play a more direct part in the personal lives of Americans--to some extent leveling the playing field for those without the advantages of wealth and birth.<br />Overall this is a monumental work, well-written, intelligent, and comprehensive. I recommend it highly to anyone who really wants to understand the Depression and war years.	2001-07-12
US	52980989	R2NN1X3JCWU2KR	0140298150	546056497	Nuremberg (movie tie-in)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	A fascinating account of a major event in history.	Joseph Persico proves that a book can be thoroughly researched, historically accurate, finely detailed, and yet utterly fascinating to read. Even one who has a wide knowledge of the history of World War 2 will find himself caught in the drama as it unfolds, almost as if he can hardly wait to see what will happen next. I knew how the Nuremberg trials actually turned out and what the verdicts were, and yet felt the grip of the suspense as the courtroom debates ended and the judges began their deliberations, and again as the minutes ticked down to the time for the executions.<br />What makes the book so highly interesting, aside from the excellence of the writing style, is the emphasis upon personality, rather than just bare facts. This is an inside view, as we see how this extremely critical event affected the very human characters caught in the spotlight of history. We are let into the secrets of the power struggles and jealousies among the prosecutors and defense attorneys, as well as the sense of high responsibility and the determination of some of the leading figures to get this momentous chore done right.<br />And we see how some of the most notorious men in history dealt with their fall from power to their treatment as common criminals facing death by hanging. Each one becomes a real person as the author skillfully reveals how the passing of the long days of confinement and the presentation of overwhelming masses of lurid evidence worked inexorably upon the psyche.<br />Anyone who has any interest in World War 2 will find this book engrossing. (Why, even the author's acknowledgments are interesting.) And anyone who does not know the story of the famous war crimes trials at Nuremberg will receive a thorough education in one of the most significant events of that earth-transforming conflict.	2001-07-04
US	52980989	R2055Z033BZVNR	0892966955	500244491	Murder Me Now	Books	4	6	7	N	N	Great Character - Great Fun	Olivia Brown, 1920s Bohemian poet and part-time detective, is a most fascinating character, sophisticated and intelligent, but tending to be rather theatrical and headstrong. Obviously based upon Edna St. Vincent Millay (she is even called &quot;Oliver&quot; by her friends, as Millay was called &quot;Vincent&quot;), she and her milieu are quite convincing. The Greenwich Village that she resides in seems completely authentic, along with the real-life characters with whom she associates, such as Edmund &quot;Bunny&quot; Wilson and Susan Glaspell, and the atmosphere of prohibition, with its speakeasies and bootleggers.<br />The investigation of the murder of a maid (who turns out to be an undercover agent) is intriguing. And the diversions of the Black Hand gang, trying to discourage Olivia's prying, and rival mobster Monk Eastman, who displays a romantic interest in our heroine, add to the suspense.<br />The ending, when we finally discover &quot;whodunit,&quot; really doesn't depend to any great degree on the whole progress of the investigation, and the novel comes to a rather disconcertingly abrupt close. But who cares? It has been a great ride, and I'll be first in line for Olivia's next adventure.	2001-02-27
US	52980989	R35BO3QH93J2H	0679600906	714965335	The Pursuit of Love & Love in a Cold Climate: Two Novels (Modern Library)	Books	5	17	18	N	N	Two delicious social satires!	These are 2 delightful satires on the social life of the well-to-do English of the '30s and '40s. In PURSUIT Linda Radlett, brightest star in  an unconventional upper class British family (based upon the author's own  family), is hardly an admirable person. She is capable of saying cattily  about her sister's older fiance, &quot;Poor old thing, I suppose she likes  him, but, I must say, if he was one's dog, one would have him put  down.&quot; And she callously remarks about her own unloved baby, who is  wailing, &quot;Poor soul, I think it must have caught sight of itself in  the glass.&quot;And yet she is a fascinating creature who somehow retains  the reader's sympathy as she endures marriage to the ambitious scion of a  dull banking family, struggles to adapt to life with a zealous communist  lover, and at last finds true love with a worldly Frenchman, just as World  War 2 is closing in upon them.Nancy Mitford's witty style captures  perfectly the ambience of English social life during the '30s and into the  early war years. However, the sharp, brittle satire does not disguise the  author's affection for her family of fallible characters.In COLD CLIMATE  Polly Hampton is a hypnotizingly beautiful woman, but to the dismay of her  parents, she shows no interest in love or marriage--until she suddenly  overwhelms a very recently widowed older kinsman (who is rumored to have  been a lover of her own mother). Her parents, alienated from their only  child by this unsuitable match, are now ready to meet their nearest male  heir, Cedric Hampton (lately of Nova Scotia, now of Paris), who turns out  to be a very handsome, but obviously gay, charmer, who transforms their  lives. When a disillusioned Polly returns to England with her unhappy  husband, an unusual, but not totally surprising, triangle ensues.Mitford's  satiric skills are at their best in this sparkling novel. Especially  effective are the characterizations of the blunt, self-centered Lady  Montdore (Polly's mother), and the effeminate aesthete, Cedric. Lady  Montdore's comforting words at the death of Polly's newborn baby: &quot;I  expect it was just as well. Children are such an awful expense  nowadays.&quot; Such is the lady's habitual behavior, her daughter seems  unmoved and hardly surprised at this remark. Narrator Fanny Logan Wincham  and the Radlett family, from the earlier novel, also play an important part  here.ther), and the effeminate aesthete, Cedric. Lady  Montdore's comforting words at the death of Polly's newborn baby: &quot;I  expect it was just as well. Children are such an awful expense  nowadays.&quot; Such is the lady's habitual behavior, her daughter seems  unmoved and hardly surprised at this remark. Narrator Fanny Logan Wincham  and the Radlett family, from the earlier novel, also play an important part  here.	2000-08-27
US	52980989	R2T35R14ULMCT6	0848804910	187732421	A Room With a View	Books	5	52	55	N	N	A delightful social satire.	Concerning Lucy's passionate playing of Beethoven upon the piano, the Rev. Mr. Beebe once said, &quot;If Miss Honeychurch ever takes to live as she plays, it will be very exciting--both for us and for her.&quot; At the time of the remark, Lucy is a very conventional young woman, with perhaps occasional rebellious thoughts. The Emersons, father and son, are somehow not quite acceptable in her social circle, and though George is so bold as to kiss her impulsively, she is determined to forget him. Instead she finally gives in to the repeated proposals of Cecil Vyse, a thoroughly fashionable young gentleman, if not very exciting. So the stage is set for this splendid satire on the English social strata of the early part of the 20th century, a time when the formal structure of the Victorian era was beginning to fray at the edges. Vyse is a delightfully drawn male chauvinist prig; nobody likes him, but everyone is willing to accept him, and Lucy convinces herself that she is in love with him. However, Vyse's own penchant for getting his way by playing rather cruel practical jokes brings the Emersons back into the picture. Confronted by the contrast between the not quite classy but intelligent, thoughtful (and bold) George Emerson and the arrogant, boorish, but elite Cecil Vyse, Lucy finally decides to live as she plays Beethoven, with exciting results. This early work of Forster's is a pure delight, with a light and well-controlled tone throughout. Although there would be a danger of stereotyping to illustrate the different social classes, Forster skillfully makes the characters well rounded and unpredictable, as in the scene when Lucy breaks her engagement to Vyse, expecting his feelings of masculine superiority to precipitate an argument, but instead being somewhat dismayed when he behaves as a perfect gentleman. Although HOWARDS END is usually rated above A ROOM WITH A VIEW, I prefer this slighter, but consummately well-done, novel.	2000-07-13
US	52980989	R2GQ58U6347WKT	0425141977	813189523	A Share in Death	Books	3	32	37	N	N	A promising first novel, but disappointing.	Duncan Kincaid is an engaging detective hero, and Miss Crombie's writing  style is very effective. I enjoyed the suspenseful buildup until near the  end of the book--and then the conclusion ruined the carefully prepared  plot. When a character who has already been nearly killed goes completely  and idiotically out of her way to place herself in jeopardy, one sees the  author's manipulation too clearly and tends to lose interest in whether or  not the character survives. And when the hero suddenly makes an amazing and  illogical mental leap to the precise answer to the mystery just in time to  race to a last-second rescue, things are stretched even further. And when  the murderer turns out to have efficiently killed two innocents who get in  the way but stupidly flubs the one murder that he supposedly has been  planning for months, it is just too much. And why on earth he would choose  a vacation complex, enrolling himself as a guest, when he wishes to keep  his tie with the intended victim secret, ah, that is the real mystery. What  we have here is one of those impossible Martha Grimes plots. Now if you  happen to like Martha Grimes, you may enjoy this book thoroughly.Having  said this, I intend to give Deborah Crombie another chance and read one of  her other Duncan Kincaid novels. This one does show real promise and real  talent. If only the ending had been more believable.	2000-07-08
US	52980989	R1ADMAZFDDGNQD	0312111827	966622039	Howards End (Case Studies in Contemporary Criticism)	Books	4	56	60	N	N	A clash between idealism and practicality.	The Schlegel sisters are interested in the arts and in the more idealistic liberal social movements of their early 20th century world. The Wilcoxes are practical and materialistic. There seems to be little in common between  the two families, but not even a highly embarrassing early amorous  encounter can keep them apart. Poor Leonard Bast is as idealistic as the  Schlegels, but encumbered by an unloved wife with a shady past, he has not  their financial means to avoid dealing with the practicalities of life.  Caught between the two factions, he eventually is crushed. Only Margaret  Schlegel is finally strong enough to bridge the gap between the practical  and the ideal by exerting her benevolent humanity, her passionate and yet  controlled determination that people must &quot;connect.&quot;HOWARDS END  is a minor masterpiece, capturing perfectly the conflict between rigid  Victorian values and the more free and open changes in the turbulent years  before World War I. Forster handles his characters with great sensitivity  and sympathy, yet with a subtle and skillful irony. The novel is not  intended for rapid reading, but there is a felicity of expression that is  an ample reward for careful perusal. Less fastidious than Henry James, not  quite the equal of Trollope in characterization, a more subtle stylist than  William Dean Howells, Forster combines some of the best elements of all  three of these social chroniclers in an important work that is both highly  personal and universal in scope.	2000-07-01
US	52980989	R1CJ0M1QZAARDH	0312193742	694259342	Wycliffe and the Redhead	Books	5	13	14	N	N	Burley deserves to be read.	What a pity it is that most of Burley's books are already out of print when so many of the unbelievable female private eye series and those stupid cat mysteries are thriving. The Wycliffe stories are among the very best  detective novels, ranking right up there with Georges Simenon's Maigret  series. In fact, Wycliffe is very much like an English Maigret, a detective  who builds his cases not so much upon factual evidence as upon his ability  to feel the atmosphere of the crimes and the characters of the victims and  the suspects. To call his novels &quot;procedural&quot; is not truly  accurate, although there is plenty of good solid criminal investigation  involved, with a very interesting cast of assistants. But the emphasis is  always upon the very realistic characters, involved in real human  activities. The reader becomes as engrossed in the lives of these people as  Wycliffe is as he quietly soaks in the ambience of the Cornish villages,  where most of the stories take place, and bit by bit learns the secrets  that lie behind the motivations of the characters. If you have never read a  Wycliffe novel, and if you love good writing, especially in the detective  genre, give yourself a special treat and try this book.	2000-05-16
US	52980989	R9AG56FRDLFDX	0935526455	374207515	Captain Blood (Classics of Naval Fiction)	Books	5	12	13	N	N	A tremendous romance of the sea!	When my family moved into a new home when I was only 13, we found that the previous tenants had left a copy of this novel behind. And that is how I first met Peter Blood, one of the most intriguing characters in fiction. I  don't know how many times I read that book as a teenager, but years later I  acquired another copy and have read it several more times. I have never  been disappointed in it.Dr. Peter Blood would probably have been content to  spend the rest of his life in his quiet medical practice and tending his  geraniums, but when he treats a patient who happens to be a revolutionist,  he is charged with treason, is almost hanged, and is instead sent as a bond  slave to Jamaica. There he is sold to plantation owner Col. Bishop, whose  daughter Arabella takes a special interest in him. When the crew of a  Spanish ship sacks the town, Blood leads some of his fellow slaves as they  steal aboard the ship and capture it. Thus Capt. Blood becomes a pirate, a  very noble one, but one who is sought by both the Spanish and the English.  He names the ship the Arabella, and he cannot forget the lovely lady whose  slave he had been. The ensuing story of Blood's fantastic career is one of  the best sea stories ever written, and the love story is equal to it. I  can't imagine any reader not becoming thoroughly engrossed in this  excellent novel. And if you like this one and want to meet a character who  is almost Blood's equal, try Sabatini's great novel of the French  Revolution, SCARAMOUCHE.	1999-10-21
US	52980989	ROZZ13TB8BY8H	0899685471	545244487	Scaramouche	Books	5	51	51	N	N	An engrossing historical romance.	When his best friend, a young clergyman, is killed in a mockery of a duel by an arrogant noble, just to quiet his eloquent expressions of democratic ideals, Andre-Louis Moreau vows revenge. From that point, through meteoric  careers as a consummate actor and scenario writer, then as a fencing  master, and finally a politician, the brilliant Moreau keeps thwarting the  aims of the aristocratic Marquis de la Tour d'Azyr. However, the nobleman  causes pain to Moreau as well, and the time must come when the two will  meet to settle their enmity once and for all. You are not likely to guess  how their confrontation finally turns out. Set against the backdrop of the  French Revolution, this swashbuckling novel is exciting throughout, and it  presents one of the most dashing heroes in fiction, a man who can fight  equally well with his mind, his mouth, his pen, and his sword, a man who  stirs up events wherever he goes. I can't decide whether I like this novel  or CAPTAIN BLOOD better, but these two books of Sabatini's are among the  very best adventure novels.	1999-10-21
US	52980989	RI09LRZ9TIHIO	0312860811	641551689	Contract With an Angel	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Rebirth of a good guy--the Faust legend in reverse.	Take the title literally--this is about a real angel and a real contract.  Hard-driving businessman R. A. Neenan is on a plane flight when he is  confronted by the seraph Michael in the form of a huge, athletic black man.  Neenan is informed that he does not have much longer to live, and he must  try to make up for the wrongs that he has done to others. When the plane  goes into a dive and almost crashes, he is convinced and signs the  contract.<br />Neenan has a big job ahead of him. He has alienated a lot of  people, including his bitter parents, his frigid and shrewish first wife  (just like his mother), his actress daughter (who has been brought up on  her mother's vicious tirades), a homosexual son, and, to a lesser extent,  the other son, who is now working as an overshadowed junior executive in  Neenan's company. Then there are a number of women whom he has conquered  and discarded.<br />First, however, is his supersexy but neglected second  wife, Anna Maria Allegro. This is the fun part--if you are unfamiliar with  Greeley's novels, you'll be amazed at how much sex a celibate Catholic  priest can inject into his writings. (Even angel Michael has a gorgeous  &quot;companion,&quot; Gaby. (Did you know that Gabriel is a female angel?  And that angelic sexual encounters last for days?)<br />To the bewilderment of  his associates, Neenan lives up to the terms of his contract. He doesn't  always succeed, but he controls his wayward impulses and tries his best. He  discovers that it is much more fun to be a good guy, especially in his  relations (both in and out of bed) with his wife. But that fatal deadline  is still hanging over him. The ending may be predictable, but who cares? No  one would want the story to end differently.<br />It is difficult to tell just  how much of Greeley's depiction of the divine is to be taken as his honest  belief and how much is just pure twinkle-in-the-eye whimsy. Some of it is  almost irreverent. (How about the Virgin Mary as a saucy Palestinian  teenager who makes the best chocolate chip cookies ever created?) But if I  had my druthers, I'd take Greeley's theology over anyone else's.<br />The book  is great fun to read. Greeley is certainly an entertaining story teller,  with the best kind of Irish-Catholic wit. Ah, I love this genial priest who  packs so much love of life into his novels!cy Palestinian  teenager who makes the best chocolate chip cookies ever created?) But if I  had my druthers, I'd take Greeley's theology over anyone else's.<br />The book  is great fun to read. Greeley is certainly an entertaining story teller,  with the best kind of Irish-Catholic wit. Ah, I love this genial priest who  packs so much love of life into his novels!	1998-09-16
US	52980989	R20TZFFLGZYYN3	0195209001	139054782	The Duke's Children (Palliser)	Books	5	30	34	N	Y	A battle between generations ends the Palliser series.	One of the brightest lights of the Palliser novels is extinguished in the  first chapter with the death of the Duchess Glencora. Bereft of her  vivacious influence the grieving Duke, already reserved and traditional,  sinks into stodginess. Far worse than this, he is left with three young  adult children whom he fails completely to understand. To say that they  cause him many heartaches is to greatly understate the situation.<br />The  eldest, heir to the title, Lord Silverbridge has already been booted out of  Oxford for a silly prank. Now he goes into horse racing with questionable  companions and winds up as the victim of a major scandal, which costs his  father a huge sum. Next he deserts his father's choice for his bride to woo  an American girl whose grandfather was a laborer.<br />The Duke's daughter,  Mary, wants to marry a commoner, son of a country squire, a good man, but  with no title and little money. The outraged Duke is adamantly opposed to  such a match, but Mary vows to marry no other and is constantly  miserable.<br />The youngest son, Gerald, who plays a relatively minor role in  the novel, is forced to leave Cambridge because he was away without  permission attending a race in which his brother's horse was running. Later  he loses several thousand pounds in a card game.<br />The Duke bemoans his  children's foolishness and their lack of respect for the traditions of  their fathers. He pays for their mistakes, but vigorously opposes the two  unwise marriages. But although he is a strict, authoritarian man, he is  also a compassionate and loving father. Will he yield to the fervent  desires of his rebellious offspring? The resolution of this clash of  generations brings the Palliser novels to a satisfying conclusion.<br />As  always, it is Trollope's great gift of characterization which makes THE  DUKE'S CHILDREN an outstanding novel. From the outwardly firm but inwardly  doubting Duke to the very sincere but frequently erring Silverbridge to the  tragic Lady Mabel Grex, who has the young heir in her grasp only to let him  slip away, these are well-rounded figures with whom the reader lives  intimately and comes to understand thoroughly. With the perfectly depicted  ambience of upper-class Victoriana as the setting, this novel is an  absorbing work of genius.tragic Lady Mabel Grex, who has the young heir in her grasp only to let him  slip away, these are well-rounded figures with whom the reader lives  intimately and comes to understand thoroughly. With the perfectly depicted  ambience of upper-class Victoriana as the setting, this novel is an  absorbing work of genius.	1998-09-04
US	52980989	R140DDVYD2ZOB0	0195208986	258130216	Phineas Redux (The Palliser Novels)	Books	5	6	6	N	Y	The exciting climax of the Phineas Finn story.	First, if you haven't read &quot;Phineas Finn,&quot; be sure to read it  first. &quot;Phineas Redux&quot; certainly can be enjoyed without knowing  the earlier novel, but it would mean so much more if you saw how Phineas's  character and his relationships with others have developed from the  first.<br />&quot;Phineas Brought Back&quot; (as the title means) really  brings back Phineas Finn with a vengeance. The handsome, sincere young  Irishman has always been a favorite with the ladies. In the first novel he  was wounded by a jealous rival; in this one he is fired at by another and  has his name scandalized in a newspaper. The high point of the novel is his  trial for the murder of a political enemy.<br />Trollope's genius for  character development is superb in these 2 novels. Phineas grows from a  naive political novice into a highly capable government official, but his  conscientiousness keeps him from playing party politics and causes problems  with other members of his party. Phineas maintains his total honesty, a  trait which frequently is to his detriment in the real world. His reactions  to his imprisonment, trial, and acquittal are exactly right, so perfectly  true to the character which Trollope has built up through hundreds of  pages.<br />At the end of the novel, Phineas is still Phineas, but he is a  much wiser and sadly disillusioned man. However, he receives the reward of  a splendid mate, a woman who is truly worthy of him and whom he now has  matured enough to appreciate. If only he had married her when she proposed  to him in the first novel! But then none of his engrossing problems would  have occurred.<br />This is one of Trollope's most exciting novels, a true  page-turner in the trial sequence. As always, every characterization is  extremely well done by one of the world's greatest authors.	1998-08-17
US	52980989	R4YDDGMBO9XH7	0195208994	178320402	The Prime Minister (The Palliser Novels)	Books	5	43	44	N	Y	Parliamentary Politics and a Despicable Villain!	When Plantagenet Palliser (Duke of Omnium) is named Prime Minister, his wife, the Duchess Glencora, is delighted. Immediately she plunges into politics herself, giving huge parties intended to support the Duke, who is completely honorable, but unfortunately detached and reserved, seeming at times icy to those whose political backing is needed. Glencora, one of Trollope's most delightful creations, has a sparkling personality, but is occasionally too outspoken and is sometimes misunderstood. Eventually her well-intended machinations result in embarrassment for the Duke's ministry.<br /><br />In the other main plot, Emily Wharton ignores the advice of her father and almost all her friends when she falls in love with Ferdinand Lopez, about whom very little is known except that he seems to be a wealthy gentleman. Finally she persuades her father to give his permission for her marriage. Very quickly she discovers that she has made a horrendous mistake, and her life becomes a living hell. Only one of her old friends remains true--Arthur Fletcher, who vows that he will always love no one but her.<br /><br />Anyone who is interested in Victorian history and British politics will find the novel a pure delight. Others may find it slow going and mystifying in spots, although no such knowledge or interest is needed for the Emily-Lopez plot. Lopez is one of the most despicable villains in all of Trollope's fiction, ranking with George Vavasor of \\"Can You Forgive Her?\\" Emily, on the other hand, sometimes becomes tiresome in her queer, fastidious obstinacy.<br /><br />The character of Plantagenet Palliser is finely drawn. He is a man who is scrupulously honest, too much so for partisan politics. He is a natural leader and yet a thin-skinned, conscientious man who takes any criticism to heart. He loves his vivacious wife, who teases him mercilessly when she wishes to upset him. The match seems very odd, and their marriage began under inauspicious circumstances, and yet she,  in her way, admires and adores her husband.<br /><br />\\"The Prime Minister\\" is an outstanding work by one of literature's greatest novelists, mainly because of his brilliant handling of character. No one does it better.usband.  \\"The Prime Minister\\" is an outstanding work by one of literature's greatest novelists, mainly because of his brilliant handling of character. No one does it better.	1998-08-06
US	52980989	R3RCHQD8KFOSKK	0679417451	808659101	The Eustace Diamonds (Everyman's Library)	Books	5	19	19	N	Y	Tribulations of a beautiful liar.	The Lady Lizzie Eustace, a beautiful young widow, claims that her husband gave her the extremely valuable diamond necklace to be her very own. However, Mr. Camperdown, lawyer for the estate, says that it is a family heirloom and must be given up. Lizzie, for whom lying is always more natural than telling the truth, stubbornly clings to the diamonds, taking them with her everywhere, rather than entrusting them to some safe depository.<br />But then there is a skillfully performed burglary, and the jewels are stolen from her hotel room in Carlisle. Or are they? Did Lizzie just use this scheme to make the diamonds disappear? Why is there a second burglary at her London apartment? The novel becomes a fascinating detective story.<br />Lizzie longs for a husband to share her problems. But which man is it to be? There is Lord Fawn, to whom she is engaged, but who breaks with her because of the diamonds. Lord George, a rather shady character, intrigues her with his swashbuckling mann! ! er. Then there is her ever loyal cousin, Frank Greystock, but he is supposedly engaged to a penniless nonentity, Lucy Morris.<br />Lizzie Eustace is one of Trollope's most interesting characters--beautiful, strong willed, intelligent in her way, but utterly untrustworthy, constantly scheming to get what she wants and always able to justify her actions to herself. It is no wonder that even the similarly mendacious Lord George is afraid of her. Lizzie alone makes this third novel of the Palliser series well worth reading.	1998-07-16
US	52980989	R3EAUZP17WFJU2	0140433260	666149860	Doctor Thorne (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	61	61	N	N	Matrimonial dilemma--For love or for money?	Mary Thorne, orphaned (and illegitimate) niece of Dr. Thorne, has long been a favorite at Greshamsbury House--until Lady Arabella Gresham learns that her only son Frank is in love with Mary. The unhappy Mary is banished forthwith, because the Gresham family fortunes are so depleted that Frank must marry money.<br />Frank, however, is one of the few completely honorable young men in Trollope's novels and remains stubbornly true to his love. Well, he does propose to another woman, at the insistence of his mother, but only with the virtual certainty that he will be rejected--as indeed he is. The lady is Miss Dunstable, one of Trollope's most delightful characters, a fabulously wealthy thirtyish heiress of an ointment company. She is a bold, witty woman, not beautiful, but attractive in her way, whose wealth invites countless proposals.<br />After the rather complicated plot unfolds, the tables are completely turned, and Mary is eagerly welcomed by Lady Arabella (who, of course, has always loved her) as the savior of the family.<br />I concede that &quot;The Last Chronicle of Barset&quot; is the best of the Barsetshire novels, but I dearly love &quot;Dr. Thorne.&quot; The character of the doctor himself is strong and sympathetic. Frank, Mary, Miss Dunstable, Lady Arabella, Sir Roger Scatcherd, and such minor characters as Dr. Thorne's rival, Dr. Fillgrave (one of Trollope's punnily named characters), form a superb cast. And the outcome is thoroughly satisfying. I probably enjoyed reading this novel more than any of the others.	1998-07-09
US	52980989	R3AMSZAPCVWO4J	0375400672	509129181	The Small House at Allington (Everyman's Library)	Books	5	43	47	N	Y	A beloved cad, a flawed hero, and a lovelorn lady.	Lily Dale is sublimely happy when she becomes engaged to Adolphus Crosbie, assistant secretary in a government agency and a mortal Apollo to Lily. And Crosbie is happy too--while he is with Lily. But when he is invited to spend a week at Courcy Castle and is looked upon with favor by Lady Alexandrina De Courcy, the temptation to marry into a noble family is too much for him, and he becomes engaged for the second time in a few weeks.<br />John Eames, a young government clerk, has loved Lily Dale for years. He longs to replace Crosbie in the jilted girl's affections, but she still loves Crosbie, despite his treachery. The ambitious Crosbie, however, soon finds that his aristocratic bride brings no money into the marriage, but maintains her expensive tastes. The marriage is a disaster from the start.<br />As John Eames' fortunes rise and Crosbie's decline, the reader is led to believe, as all Lily's friends urge, that Eames will eventually win the heartbroken lass, but Lily stubbornly clings to her hopeless love.<br />There are several subplots, some of them humorous, as Trollope's settings range from castle to rooming house, with vivid characters from varying social strata. As always, the characterizations are thorough and convincing. These are real people who behave realistically. Even when their actions seem surprising, they flow logically from the strong personal basis which the author has built into each character. Although the outcome is not nearly so pleasing as that of &quot;Dr. Thorne,&quot; for instance, this book is a solidly enjoyable novel from one of the greatest literary series.	1998-07-09
US	52980989	R2ESNF5TLB6BWK	0679405518	76352212	The Warden (Everyman's Library)	Books	5	27	27	N	Y	The story of a righteous man's battle with his conscience.	In the 15th century, Hiram's Hospital was established as a perpetual charitable home for 12 poor old men, each being replaced at his death. Over the years the income from the property of the estate has increased to the point where the warden of the hospital enjoys a substantial salary.<br />The Rev. Septimus Harding (the Warden), kind, gentle, and conscientious, loves his comfortable position and is loved by the old men under his care - until his life is disrupted by a REFORMER, in the person of young John Bold, who questions the ample income of the warden, while the old men still receive only pennies a day. Bold brings in a solicitor and interests the newspaper The Jupiter (obviously the London Times), which makes the issue a national debate.<br />Although the church stands behind the warden with all its influence, the gentle Mr. Harding himself begins to doubt the propriety of his position. The matter becomes further complicated when Bold and Harding's daughter Eleanor fall in love.<br />This first of the six Barsetshire novels is by far the shortest and concentrates almost exclusively on the main plot. (In fact, Trollope inserts a criticism of the long serial novels of the day, although he later adopted that same mode.) &quot;The Warden&quot; is not so rich in detail or in the extensive cultural ambience of the later novels, but it is an excellent introduction to this deservedly acclaimed series. It introduces many vivid characters who grow and develop delightfully in the later novels.	1998-07-08
US	52980989	R2TV15JUMXMXV0	0195208110	509129181	Framley Parsonage (The Barsetshire Novels)	Books	5	33	35	N	Y	Temptation and turmoil in a quiet country parish.	Young clergyman Mark Robarts receives a choice parish, thanks to Lady Lufton, the mother of one of his university friends. However, Robarts, though newly and happily married, is not content to settle into the life of a country minister. Lured by a wealthy and worldly set of new acquaintances, he finds himself pushed into living beyond his means and, worse yet, being held legally responsible for another man's bad debts.<br />Meantime the young Lord Lufton has been smitten by the charms of Robarts' sister Lucy, much to the displeasure of his aristocratic mother. It take a great act of magnanimity on Lucy's part - helping the impoverished Crawley family during a crisis (the Crawleys are more prominent in &quot;The Last Chronicle of Barset&quot;) - to finally convince Lady Lufton that Lucy is worthy of her son.<br />This beautifully written novel contrasts the simpler integrity, though sometimes snobbish values, of the old ways with the more meretriciously glamorous lives of a newer society. As usual, Trollope has produced a multitude of characters whose motives are completely credible, and his depiction of the different social groups provides a most vivid kaleidoscope of Victorian life and attitudes. As always, there is nothing outdated in Trollope's sure insight into human nature.	1998-07-08
US	52980989	R1QEXEREGCVSSG	0195208137	602714996	Barchester Towers (The Barsetshire Novels)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Ecclesiastical war in the cathedral town of Barchester.	Barchester is at war--a civil war within the church. The faction of new Bishop Proudie, under the thumb of his ambitious wife, who in turn is aided by the Bishop's chaplain, Obadiah Slope, is determined to transform the formal, conservative worship at Barchester into a low-church ambience. The established local clergy, led by Archdeacon Grantly, are just as determined to resist. Mrs. Proudie considers Slope to be her pawn in making herself the real power in the diocese, but this clever clergyman himself has dreams of supplanting her as ruler over the weak Bishop. Soon they are engaged in a private war of their own.<br />A major portion of the plot is concerned with whether the gentle Mr. Harding, title character of &quot;The Warden,&quot; will be restored to the position which he resigned in the first novel.<br />This book is probably the most popular of all Trollope's novels, but it is not the best. Among the 6 Barsetshire novels, I would rate it no better than third, after the superb &quot;The Last Chronicle of Barset&quot; and &quot;Dr. Thorne.&quot; More than in any of the other novels of this series, the author indulges in too many personal asides to the reader, which impede the progress of the plot and are not nearly so clever as they are intended to be.<br />On the other hand, the book presents two of the best of Trollope's many delightful characters. Obadiah Slope is a wonderfully oily villain, whose eventual discomfiture is a consummate pleasure to behold. Eleanor Bold, young widowed daughter of Mr. Harding, is very high on the list of Trollope's admirable heroines. She is wooed by 3 men (including Slope), and the man who wins this spirited lady is a truly fortunate man.<br />There are many other excellently portrayed characters. Mrs. Proudie, the Archdeacon, the intriguing invalid Signora Neroni, Francis Arabin, and others are all people well worth meeting. Trollope's greatest strength is in the development and handling of his highly credible characters.	1998-06-27
US	52980989	R3ODPAJ156NF30	0679443665	955046980	The Last Chronicle of Barset (Everyman's Library, 208)	Books	5	37	37	N	Y	Last and best of the outstanding Barsetshire novels.	The Rev. Josiah Crawley, impoverished curate of Hogglestock, has been accused of stealing a check for 20 pounds. Confused about how the check came into his possession, he has no defense to offer. Mrs. Proudie, shrewish tyrant over her husband, the Bishop, is determined to hound Crawley out of his meager position. Also caught up in the problem is young Henry Grantly, son of the aristocratic Archdeacon, who is in love with the beautiful and intelligent daughter of the accused man--a match that his father bitterly opposes.<br />This is the main plot, but there is a wealth of subplots, each worthy of its own novel. Among these is a continuation of John Eames' wooing of Lily Dale, carried over from &quot;The Small House at Allington.&quot;<br />The Last Chronicle is the longest of the Barsetshire novels--and the best, considerably better in style than the more popular &quot;Barchester Towers.&quot; Trollope's characterizations are, as usual, superb, among the very best in all literature. He skillfully interweaves all the various strands of the novel into a very satisfying whole. And he has largely freed himself from the sometimes annoying philosophical asides to the reader that detracted from some of his earlier novels. This book merits consideration as a true masterwork.	1998-06-27
US	52980989	R6WAOPST2RRUH	019520896X	258130216	Phineas Finn: The Irish Member (The Palliser Novels)	Books	5	5	5	N	Y	Story of a charming young politician and lover.	Phineas Finn, the hero (if he can be called that), is a young Irishman who gets elected to Parliament at the age of 25 and enjoys a spectacular rise, although he lacks money, title, and social position. His assets are extreme good looks, sincerity, a modest but confident charm, and lots of luck.<br />The most interesting parts of the plot deal with his relationships with 4 women: little Mary Flood Jones, his childhood sweetheart back in Ireland; Lady Laura Standish Kennedy, who takes a special interest in the new MP and helps to further his career; Violet Effingham, as rich as she is beautiful; and Mme. Marie Max Goesler, a very wealthy widow, beautiful, intelligent, and very interesting (my personal favorite). Phineas proposes to 3 of these women and receives a direct proposal from the other.<br />The portions of the plot dealing with parliamentary business may be a bit mystifying to those who know little about the British governmental system or Victorian history, but this is a good place to add to your education. Some consider &quot;Phineas Finn&quot; to be the most tedious of the Palliser series; however, I found it fascinating throughout.	1998-06-24
US	52980989	R24P5106PD8OYC	0679435956	234514402	Can You Forgive Her? (Everyman's Library)	Books	5	24	24	N	Y	A tale of three triangles	&quot;Can You Forgive Her,&quot; the first of the Palliser novels of Anthony Trollope, deals with two romantic triangles, each with a lady who has difficulty making up her mind between an honorable man and a charming rogue. Lady Glencora Palliser is married to a highly respected Member of Parliament who is obviously destined for a top position in the government. However, she is still in love with an extremely handsome ne'er-do-well whom she had earlier barely been dissuaded from eloping with. Alice Vavasor, after an entanglement with her cousin George, has become engaged to John Grey, a perfect man in every respect, perhaps too perfect for the adventuresome Miss Vavasor.  The two ladies come perilously close to deserting the worthier men for the scalawags, whom the reader can see becoming worse and worse scoundrels as time passes, especially George Vavasor. Alice even breaks her engagement with the perfect Mr. Grey, whom she really loves, and becomes engaged to her self-centered cousin, to her almost instant regret.  A subplot deals with yet another triangle, the rather absurd rivalry of farmer Cheeseacre and self-styled hero Captain Bellfield for the hand of a wealthy fortyish widow. This sometimes distracts from the main plot, and yet the reader is left with the idea that perhaps the flirtatious widow might be the best catch of them all; at least she knows how to have fun.  The chief merit of the novel is the brilliant characterizations. No author in fiction can surpass Trollope in creating real people with motivations which can be throroughly understood, no matter how the reader might disagree with the characters' actions. The novel's length is perhaps necessary to permit Trollope to fully develop such a vivid, believable and engrossing cast.	1998-06-01
US	52980989	RD3YKFZSS315J	0486241815	499674547	Orley Farm (2 Volumes Bound as One)	Books	5	54	55	N	Y	Trollope at his best!	Orley Farm is Trollope at his best (as good as the Barsetshire series), which means some of the best characterizations in the English language. Trollope's people are real; the beleaguered Lady Mason, charged with forging a will; the aged lover Sir Peregrine Orme; Madeleine Stavely, deeply but practically in love; the shallow, fickle Sophia Furnival and others are 3-dimensional figures that live and breathe. His satire of the so-called &quot;justice&quot; system is the best kind of satire: he just describes the court proceedings as they really are. The result is as up-to-date as today's newspaper. It is no wonder that Trollope's revival in popularity is continuing to grow.	1998-04-06
