US	52984265	R1GH7YE8ZM76B1	0060008814	314453955	Dot.con: How America Lost Its Mind and Money in the Internet Era	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Easy, informative book	Dot.con is a book that reads like a long \\"New Yorker\\" article. I view this as a quality, given the subject matter. Despite the size of the \\".com\\" bubble, its explanation is not as elusive as other speculative frenzies (e.g., 1929). The recent speculation is the outcome of \\"herd behavior\\" on a massive scale, favored by unique historical conditions, such as the development of a new technology, the liquidity excess in the american markets, and a favorable economic environment. There are plenty of quantitative models and historical studies of such behavior. Cassidy spells out this early (quoting in the process Charles Mackay's seminal treatise), and gets it out of the way. What makes the book interesting is the intricate relationship--and amplification of speculative behavior--among the actors of the bubble: investment banks, venture capitalists, the media, the Federal Bank, entrepreneurs, and finally the american public. Taken individually, the actions of each group may appear greedy, dishonest, stupid. Placed in the proper context however, the judgement is more nuanced. Cassidy shows how the skeptical VCs, financiers and journalists were repeatedly proven wrong in the early stages of the speculation and decreased in number, to the point of extinction. Nowhere is the pressure to imitate the crowds more evident than in Mary Meeker's case, the poster boy of Wall Street hype. Cassidy partially exculpates for her behavior, based on the environment in which she operated. But the examples in the book abound. Noone gets out scot-free, save one or two honest Wall Street stock strategists on the verge of retirement. Cassidy is relatively lenient toward the individual investor, the world of finance, and the entepreneurs: after all, these people had an incentive in feeding the bubble. The author uses his venom for the media and the fed. These are two actor whose role was to inform and vigilate, not to speculate; hence they were failing in their most important role. With all the qualifications of the case, Cassidy heavily criticizes Greenspan, and stigmatizes Wired, CNBC, and Time. His point is well taken, and I would recommend the book because it takes the time and effort to spell out the whys and hows.<br /><br />A final remark: in my edition (2003, with a post-9/11 afterward) there were very few typos and glaring mistake. For example, Altair was named after a star mentioned in Star Trek, not Star Wars, as mentioned by a reviewer. The early history of the internet is sketchy, but appropriately succint, given that the topic has been eviscerated in thousands of articles and books. On the other side, the events between 1993 and 2001 are covered in detail.ualifications of the case, Cassidy heavily criticizes Greenspan, and stigmatizes Wired, CNBC, and Time. His point is well taken, and I would recommend the book because it takes the time and effort to spell out the whys and hows. <br /> <br />A final remark: in my edition (2003, with a post-9/11 afterward) there were very few typos and glaring mistake. For example, Altair was named after a star mentioned in Star Trek, not Star Wars, as mentioned by a reviewer. The early history of the internet is sketchy, but appropriately succint, given that the topic has been eviscerated in thousands of articles and books. On the other side, the events between 1993 and 2001 are covered in detail.	2005-07-17
US	52984265	R3LWRQ3YB1VNME	0521002893	591875931	A User's Guide to Measure Theoretic Probability (Cambridge Series in Statistical and Probabilistic Mathematics)	Books	5	16	16	N	N	Excellent and idiosyncratic	There is no shortage of graduate-level probability textbooks. The  classics (Ash, Billingsley, Breiman) have been partly replaced by (among others) Dudley, Shiryaev, and Durrett (the de facto gold standard). You can now Pollard's book to the list. It is written in a peculiar style, conversational yet rigorous. The author does not hide his preferences and feelings toward theorems, and I find this useful and illuminating, as it helps the reader sort the essential material from the ancillary. Most importantly, the choice of topics is truly unique. Clearly, the goal is to cover the basics very well, rather than offer an assortment of theorems. For example, the ergodic theorem (a mainstay of every textbook) is nowhere to be found. However, you can find advanced material that are becoming important tools for the applied probabilist (esp. the of the mathematical statistics variety) as well as advanced applications. Random examples: isoperimetric inequality, Dobb's theorem on consistency of posterior measures, coupling, multivariate normal distributions. Overall, I have read half of the book, and loved it. In my list of personal favorites, it ranks second behind William's booklet (\\"Probability with Martingales\\"). Like William's book, this is a quick, enjoyable, rigorous introduction to probabilistic tools. I am perfectly comfortable with a selection of topics, as long they are covered rigorously, they are motivated, and their relative importance is stressed. When this happens, the reader is well equipped to read a monography (e.g., Karatzas & Shreve) or a reference book (e.g., Kallenberg) for the in-depth study that subjects like ergodic theorem or brownian motion require.	2005-05-11
US	52984265	R1UAVJA7XXZORR	1859843239	513688777	The Holocaust Industry: Reflections on the Exploitation of Jewish Suffering	Books	4	17	27	N	N	quite convincing	I picked this book after reading an overall favorable review of it on the Economist. The arguments contained in the book do not seem particular controversial. The author briefly challenges the common view that the Holocaust is a unique, metaphysically \\"evil\\" event caused by a unique, metahistorical hated of Gentiles toward Jews. He then moves on to show how this view is propagated through less than ethical means. The last leg of Finkelstein's thesis is about the motives behind this promotion, i.e., justifying the policy and legitimacy of Israel, and the predominant position of \\"jewish elites\\".<br />Of the three sections of the argument, I am most comfortable with the first two. The first one is, in my opinion, uncontroversial for any lover of history and any rational person who hates to explain away human behavior using the concepts of good and evil. Interestingly, this was exactly the point of a book appeared in Italy 5 years ago, \\"Lettera ad un amico ebreo\\" by S. Romano, which, with all its minor flaws, caused an outcry in the italian jewish community. The second section -- the use of scare tactics to extort monies to Germany and Switzerland -- is thoroughly documented, and is quite depressing. I tried to find reviews of this book that would disprove the facts mentioned in the book, but all negative reviews were not based on confutation. Rather, they were mostly patronizing and directed at the animus of the author. I find the evidence in Finkelstein's book convincing. His indignation stems from the lack of respect of the \\"holocaust industry\\" toward the historical event and those who were touched by it.<br />The last section of the book is the least convincing. Jewish american elites? Protecting Israel? It could as well be, but a) is far from being proved (the concept of jewish elite being a rethorical one), b) is understandable. You might not approve of it, but every ethnic/religious minority strives to help its country of origin.<br />Even discounting the explanation of motives, \\"the Holocaust industry\\" is worth reading. It may help readers distinguish the holocaust propaganda and the resulting despicable effects (the easy tear in \\"Schindler's list\\", the invocation of a \\"holocaust\\" in any tragedy), for the historical event, its causes, and the truly effective ways to avoid it in the future.nation of motives, \\"the Holocaust industry\\" is worth reading. It may help readers distinguish the holocaust propaganda and the resulting despicable effects (the easy tear in \\"Schindler's list\\", the invocation of a \\"holocaust\\" in any tragedy), for the historical event, its causes, and the truly effective ways to avoid it in the future.	2003-04-18
US	52984265	RIBR54GYR8B9B	0387953132	485999503	Foundations of Modern Probability (Probability and Its Applications)	Books	5	60	61	N	N	Stunning achievement	This a compendium of all the relevant results of probability theory; in the words of the author, a book about &quot;everything&quot;. Many reviewers and the author himself have pointed out that this work is similar in bread and depth to Loeve's classical text of the mid 70's. I have never read Neveu, but find this book unique. It is not suited as a textbook, as it lacks the many examples that are needed to absorb the theory at a first pass. It works best as a reference book or a &quot;second pass&quot; textbook: Kallenberg's presentation illustrates new aspects of classical topics such as measure theory, martingales, diffusions, point processes, and covers many advanced topics. The author has been able to pack a large amount of information by carefully organizing the material, and avoiding repetitions. Although rigorous and advanced, the proofs are elegant and clear. The goal is not to break the world record for conciseness (that is currently held by Borkar's booklet on probability). Kallenberg begins each chapter with useful remarks, so that the goals are always evident. There are a few typos here and there, but nothing that cannot be easily spotted (unlike Durrett's Probability). Over time, this has become my prominent reference source (and I am using only the first 15 chapters of the book...).	2003-02-23
US	52984265	R15IQ4181S7JSO	0792378407	149573022	Middleware Networks: Concept, Design and Deployment of Internet Infrastructure	Books	2	0	0	N	N	not worth it	This book reflects the philosophy and practices of the former IP technology organization at AT&amp;T. The final outcome of the group was supposed to be a versatile middleware platform (code-named Geoplex) underlying and integrating data and voice operations in the AT&amp;T networks (and BT in England as well). Geoplex failed miserably for a variety of reasons (not least, ill-defined focus). If anything, that is a bad rap for the book and its approach. But credibility is not everything, and this could still be a well written book. Still, I found it too long and rich in technical details. What was up-to-date two years ago is now obsolete. My advice is to browse through the copy available at your library.	2001-08-27
US	52984265	R2RYANYAI5P4VG	0060812451	524015341	Tao Te Ching	Books	2	69	95	N	Y	mediocre and superficial	I bought this translation after reading the Amazon reviews and I am sorry to report I was fooled. By the &quot;translator&quot;'s admission. this is a paraphrase of other translations, and it shows. He has similarly translated from sanskrit and hebrew. If you can read the original text you know what I mean; if you can't, I suggest that you obtain a philological, annotated translation. I have one written in italian, and it reveals secondary meanings and subtleties that are completely lost in this one. In this booklet you won't find a single annotation. imagine what a chinese could understand of Genesis or Revelation without having a single accompanying note.<br /> Besides that, the language used by the translator is colloquial (not necessarily a bad thing, although the original is not written in a colloquial style), very trite (a bad thing) and politically correct (the deity is inevitably female). If you like Maya Angelou or some New Age guru this may be the version for you. Since I trust your intelligence, I invite you to look elsewhere.<br />Unfortunately I cannot suggest a better rendition in English. I am looking for one myself, and would appreciate any suggestion from other adventurous readers.	2001-02-07
US	52984265	R3HKO8H5OP8KY5	0375706534	837021134	Life: The Movie: How Entertainment Conquered Reality	Books	3	6	16	N	N	entertaining (it's not a compliment)	In an interview (on Salon.com, if I rember correctly) Gabler referred to this book as his Grand Unified Theory of Entertaining. I hope that this statement was uttered with a bit of irony (which got lost in the printed version). In my opinion this work offer little insight of the pervasiveness of entertainment and celebrity in our lifes. The best part is the first, in which the author convincingly presents the genealogy  of the culture of entertainment in the United States. Every fact is carefully researched, a good practice that earns the book three stars. The second part focuses instead on the later stages of this culture and its effects on everyday life. I found it superfluous to a great extent. Eventually, the reader feels he is reading an abridged version of People magazine, with some interspersed comment in between the bios of celebrities and their fortunes (Martha Stewart, Ralph Lauren, Elisabeth Taylor, you name it). I don't know the goal of the author here; it's not to provoke thought nor to generate indignation. Maybe he was fascinated by his subjects and attracted into their orbit, who knows. By removing it, this book could have become an good article on New Yorker or even Granta. A final comment: other than the common topic, Debord's and Gabler's books share nothing else. Gabler does not attempt a deductive explanation based on a philosophy of history (marxism) like Debord. I understand that he is not quoting Debord in any part of his book. Personally I prefer a somewhat superficial but entertaining and humble account like Gabler's, to a pretentious and self-important one (Debord's).	2001-01-12
US	52984265	R8FIMW00OOI1Z	038794558X	689965052	Probability Theory: An Advanced Course (Universitext)	Books	5	19	19	N	N	Very useful	In recent years many excellent graduate textbooks in probability have become available. Although these books provide the reader with the basic analytic tools of measure theoretic probability, they usually fall short of presenting probability in more general (and abstract) spaces. As far as I know, there are not many good books on the subject: Billingsley &quot;Convergence of Probability Measures&quot; comes to mind, and Jacod and Shiryaev's &quot;Limit Theorems for Stochastic Processes&quot; (both excellent, and very expensive). The goal of this booklet is to fill this void and to provide a researcher with some more advanced analytical tools. The book is a &quot;selection of topics&quot; in the author's words, and I think it has no pretense of completeness. What it presents, it presents very well, with short yet rigorous proofs (as far as I can tell: I studied only the first two chapters, and the last one). The reader should know probability at least at the level of Billingsley's &quot;Probability and Measure&quot;. A basic command of topological spaces and Banach spaces is recommended. One criticism: having a PhD student in mind, the author could have spent a few more pages on examples, but this doesn't detract much from a book that is already a helpful reference and an example of good style.<br /> Finally, here are the titles of the chapters, with a short description when needed: 1. Introduction [sets the stage for random variables in Polish spaces] 2. Spaces of probability measures 3. Conditioning and martingales 4. Basic limit theorems [SLLN, CLT, LIL, Large Deviations] 5. Markov chains 6. Foundations of continuous time processes.	2000-12-01
US	52984265	R1LTI38EI3AUQ4	3540644253	964369347	Gems of Theoretical Computer Science	Books	5	11	11	N	N	5 1/2 stars	This book is somewhat similar to another wonderful book by Springer-Verlag: &quot;Proof from the Book&quot; by Aigner and Ziegler. Both books illustrate the sheer beauty of selected theorems and proof techniques rather than develop systematically a discipline. As a result, reading is an adventure rather than a task. The pace is brisk, the writing style is direct. The reader is left with the impression that there is much research to do, and that mathematics is not cast in stone or heavy handbooks, but is a growing body of knowledge. Therefore, I would suggest this book to any beginning researcher in Computer Science, Mathematics, or Operation Research.<br />There are 26 lectures, covering well-known topics as well as rather obscure ones. To give the reader a flavor of the book here are some:<br />PAC-learning and Occam's razor;<br />Kolmogorov complexity, the universal distribution, and worst-case vs. average-case;<br />Hilbert's 10th problem;<br />P=NP with probability;<br />The Berman-Hartmanis conjecture;<br />Lower bounds for the parity function;<br />Quantum search algorithms.<br />The book is suitable for advanced undergraduates and beginning graduate students. Overall, this book proves once again that Springer-Verlag is among the best publishers in the mathematical sciences, and is definitely the most innovative in mathematical education.	2000-11-15
US	52984265	R2TDGB2MWW50I6	081764055X	820313669	A Probability Path	Books	5	97	100	N	N	True to its word	The author wrote this book with non-math graduate students in mind, and succeeded admirably. The book is readable, impeccably written, with a choice of topics that satifies most modern curricula in stochastic analysis for statisticians, operations researchers, control engineers and the like. Measure theory is included (chapter 1), and receives a less cursory treatment than in Breiman's and Durrett's textbooks. The range of topics is streamlined to the truly essential tools of probability. Most notably ergodic theorems, considered standard material by other authors (e.g. Breiman, Billingsley, Shyriaev, Durrett) are not covered. Advanced topics like CLT for martingales and brownian motion are not even mentioned. On the other side, Weak* convergence, conditional dsitribution and martingales receive very good treatment, covering material you WON'T find elsewhere (e.g. Prohorov's theorem). The level of mathematical rigor is only an epsilon less than Durrett or similar works, but the payoff is much greater readability. After a careful study of the book, the reader should be equipped with the tools needed to study advanced monographies (e.g. Karatzas and Shreve, or Dembo and Zeitouni).<br />In my opinion this is the perfect &quot;support&quot; book. Read this first to grab a hold of a specific topic; then go to somewhat more advanced book to understand the rest. Also, I believe it a very suitable textbook for self-instruction. Needless to say, it's much harder to write a book like this than a very inclusive but hard-to-read manual!<br />Two final pieces of information for the potential buyer. First, S.Resnick (Cornell U) is a regognized leader in the discipline of probability theory and statistics. Second, there is a &quot;sequel&quot; to this book &quot;Adventures in Stochastic Processes&quot; that you may want to check. It touches upon Markov, Renewal, Point and Diffusion Processes. It's maybe less of a masterpiece than &quot;A Probability Path&quot;, but could be what  tou are looking at...tou are looking at...	2000-11-15
US	52984265	R2XH6EAMYPW3ZE	0387968903	730943023	Mathematical Methods of Classical Mechanics (Graduate Texts in Mathematics, Vol. 60)	Books	5	31	35	N	N	little to say	This book is an example of great scientific writing style. Not all the epsilon and deltas are spelled out, and yet the the proofs are nowhere short of rigorous. Besides, they convey insight and intuition: the opposite of Gallavotti's &quot;the element of mechanics&quot; (a very competent book, but obsessed with details). As all the great mathematicians, Arnold separates what's essential from what is not, what is interesting from what is pedantic. It The result is a challenging, wonderful book. I used it  (partially) as a second year undergraduate text, and the teacher stressed in the first class that &quot;if you understand Arnold you know classical mechanics&quot;. My advice is: get a good grasp of differential geometry and topology and of the tools of the trade (mathematical analysis, ODEs, PDEs) before studying it. Otherwise it will be still readable, but will not be fully appreciated. A last note: it's interesting that Stephen Smale, a mathematician whoshare many interests with V.I.Arnold and is equally illustrious, is another master of style and clarity. You may want to check his book on dynamical systems and his essays.	2000-10-24
US	52984265	R33S4E47E2KAZV	3540609318	279322885	Modelling Extremal Events: for Insurance and Finance (Stochastic Modelling and Applied Probability)	Books	4	54	56	N	Y	Highly recommended	This book covers the theory and applications of extremal value theory (an  area of applied probability). The mathematics is kept at an acceptable  level, i.e. advanced undergraduates in math/physics/engineering, but the  breadth and the sophistication of the statements are such that the results  are never trivial. Chapters 2-3-4 introduce the reader to the property of  sums, maxima and order statistics of random variables. Many results are  only stated but not proved. Yet, this does not detract to the readability  of the book. Chpater 5 treats point processes and requires a deeper  mathematical background. Among the chapters, this was the most  disappointing to me. The monographs of Resnick and of Kallenberg, as well  as many good introductions to point processes in queueing theory, are in my  opinion both a more intuitive and rigorous introduction to random measures.  This is not a major flaw of the book, given its view toward applications;  and besides this, the bibliographical notes will point the reader to the  relevant literature. Chapter 6, on statistical analysis of extremal events,  is enjoyable and extremely useful for practitioners in finance and  insurance. Chapter 7 touches upon time series and its relation to heavy  tails. Finally, chapter 8 is a put-pourri of topics: ARCH processes, stable  processes, self-similarity. Overall, I found this book useful as a  reference, but sometimes lacking in focus: some topics seem juxtaposed with  no clear logical continuity. Another potential shortcoming of the book is  that it is neither completely rigorous nor completely readable (i.e., an  undergraduate-level book). At the same time, these can be considered as  qualities: with regards to the former, there is plenty of material to  consult and draw inspiration from; and at the same time each reader will  find the &quot;right&quot; level of mathematics in the book. In my opinion  the final balance is largely positive, and I would recommend this book  without hesitation.tion.	2000-08-15
US	52984265	R3R3XRTE4GO73R	1565925874	480449309	Writing Excel Macros: Automating Excel to Work for You	Books	4	24	24	N	Y	Quite helpful	This book is not aimed at absolute beginners, although it pretends to be (it contains short descriptions of other languages, and devotes some time to elementary concepts). It will be appreciated by readers with some  minimal programming experience, like all O'Reilly books. For novices, I'd  suggest the readable &quot;Excel 2000 for Dummies&quot; by G.Harvey.  In  brief, the book's virtues are clarity and brevity. 500 pages is below  average for a sector full of bloated manuals. These two virtues alone  justify the 4 stars of my rating.<br />The shortcomings are the  incompleteness of the treatment. Structures and objects are not really  introduced, but you can't have it all in a slim book, and the author in the  firy first pages warns the reader that this is a book for  average-complexity macros. There are (minor) typos here and there, and in  each chapter the author shamelessly promotes other publications and  software tools written by him. A more impartial bibliography would have  been appreciated. Yet, in my opinion these are minor flaws.<br />Personally, I  would have liked an even more synthetic style in exchange for a more  comprehensive treatment. In any event, O'Reilly offers a VBA  &quot;nutshell&quot; book that is supposed to be good. The author has also  written a book on Object-Oriented-Programming in VBA, edited by  Springer-Verlag.<br />In synthesis, whatever topic the author chooses to cover  in the book, he does cover it very well. But some essential aspects of VBA  are missing, and they could have been added with little effort. Still, the  book is reasonably priced, well written and well edited. Overall, a good  buy.	2000-06-23
US	52984265	R36QFYE27IGQ7B	0786884061	618059257	The Man Who Loved Only Numbers: The Story of Paul Erdos and the Search for Mathematical Truth	Books	4	7	9	N	N	How a good biography should be	This is one of two excellent biographies published shortly after Paul Erdos' death (the other being &quot;my brain is open&quot; by B.Schechter) This book succeeds on many levels. It is a well written biography about an  ideal subject. Erdos  traveled in time through the most important events of  century, and in space through the countries of four continent.  Intellectually, he influenced many areas of pure mathematics: mostly  discrete (number theory, combinatorics, Ramsey theory, random graphs) math,  but with important excursions in analysis and probability as well. On top  of that, he had a truly unique personality and research style. The book is  rich in very humorous anecdotes, from which Erdos emerges as a generous,  unselfish man with an obsession for beautiful mathematics. However, Hoffman  is more interested in depicting the mathematical community at large, and  rightly so: this is a relatively small group of people who are usually  regarded as eccentic and obscure. After reading the life of Erdos and  company most readers will change their opinion, for the better. Finally,  this book succeed in giving a flavor of number theory and combinatorics; in  this respect it resembles the masterpiece &quot;What is Mathematics?&quot;  by Courant and Robbins.It would a fitting tribute to Erdos that some high  school students will choose a math major after being inspired by his life.	2000-06-05
US	52984265	RWS4EFMJDNVAG	3540636986	447798879	Proofs from THE BOOK	Books	4	76	76	N	N	original	This book was conceived as a tribute to Paul Erdos for his 85th birthday. It is clearly inspired by his aestetics and research interests. The proofs are from number theory, combinatorial geometry, inequalities, combinatorics  and graph theory. The statements are very often easy to understand; for  example &quot;there always exists a prime number between n and 2n&quot;,  &quot;every set of more than 2^d points in R^d determines at least one  obtuse angle&quot;. Theorems and proofs are chosen because of their  simplicity and elegance, not their relevance to modern or past mathematics.  The book is, graphically and stilistically, a gem.<br />Overall, this is great  reading for mathematicians and mathematically literate readers alike. It's  also a bit odd, since the book is neither a reference nor a textbook. The  only criticism I have is not directed to the book itself. It would be much  appreciated to have similar books, but focused on different topics. For  example &quot;probabilistic proofs from the book&quot;, or  &quot;topological proofs from the book&quot;.	2000-06-05
US	52984265	R3H601EQPIRYYK	0849396409	443335899	The CRC Concise Encyclopedia of Mathematics	Books	4	0	1	N	N	Helpful	.... The  definitions are not cast in completely rigorous terms, leaving to the  reader the task to fill in the empty spaces. I don't find it a major  drawback, since I mostly use the encyclopedia to find formulas and to get  an idea of some object I don't know at all. Moreover, many definitions come  with bibliographic references, so that you'll be able to find easily more  rigorous statements.<br />My final comment is that this...book  effectively fills a void. It will be very valuable to amateurs and  recreational mathematicians, while at the same time be of some use to pure  and applied mathematicians who need to refresh their memory or are looking  for a bibliographic pointer. That this was accomplished by a single author  makes this all the more remarkable.	2000-04-19
US	52984265	R5BMPKPC2HQRG	0132280248	259115194	Nonlinear Systems	Books	4	5	6	N	N	Recommended	This book is excellent both as a textbook and as a referencemonography (it is in fact widely referenced in the literature). It isvery readable (at the level of Hirsch &amp; Smale's classic &quot;Differential equations, dynamical systems, and linear algebra&quot;), and definitely accessible to undergraduates with some previous knowledge of ODEs. The first two chapters cover the basics (existence/uniqueness/continuation of solutions, motivating examples). Lyapunov's theorems and their applications are the core of the book, and are very carefully explained. The author covers autonomous/nonautonomous systems and the related invariance theorems; converse Lyapunov theorems, perturbed systems, input-output stability (very welcome here); stability of periodic orbits; perturbation theory. Many theoretical results are illuminated by examples. Researchers with an interest in robust control and stability of dynamical systems will find this book useful.  The only reason for giving 4 stars to this book is its price.  END	2000-03-22
US	52984265	RXH9FG1M7WYM4	0804806446	21156452	Zen Flesh Zen Bones	Books	5	88	92	N	N	Highly recommended	Of all books about Zen, this is most unassuming I've seen. There is no theory or abridged version of zen philosophy. The stories are carefully chosen and gracefully translated. They leave the reader in a state of  wonder, curiosity and puzzlement. What I liked in this book is that it is  not trying to educate the reader by teaching him a doctrine. It seems to me  that it is true to the zen spirit in this respect. A little literary  gem.	2000-02-08
US	52984265	R6LCWL1EDUP85	0156659751	21402036	The Nonexistent Knight and The Cloven Viscount	Books	5	10	13	N	N	Great modern tales	&quot;The Nonexistent Knight&quot;, the &quot;Cloven Viscount&quot; and &quot;The Baron in the Trees&quot; are often referred to as &quot;the fantasy trilogy&quot; of Calvino. If anything, they show that there are  still writers able to invent timeless tales. In this respect, Calvino is a  modern-time heir of H.C.Handersen, with the only difference that Calvino is  a writer of greater narrative range: he can spin a yarn on infinite  variations of folk tales and write a symmetry-obsessed novel like &quot;The  castle of Crossed Destinies&quot;. The trilogy is written in a linear style  that is lyrical and simple. I read them in italian in my 4th grade, and  loved them. I picked them again 20 years later and loved them even more  (esp. The Cloven Viscount). The stories touch upon themes like friendship,  love, identity, freedom. It's hard to dislike them.	1999-12-08
US	52984265	R2KHQZZPQ55LUQ	0375405534	314509680	Speak, Memory (Everyman's Library)	Books	5	7	10	N	N	excellent edition	It is pointless for me to review  this masterpiece. I would just like to say that this edition (Everyman's Library) is excellent, providing a well-written introduction and  material usually not included in previous  editions.	1999-11-16
US	52984265	R9JSE5FXPQP13	1565922840	658971757	Learning Perl, Second Edition (Nutshell Handbooks)	Books	4	0	1	N	N	very readable	This is an excellent introduction to Perl, abundant in explanations and examples. Don't get discouraged by the first chapter: it's hard to read at  first, but it's a useful summary after you've read the book.	1999-10-25
US	52984265	RR9JJXY77JZQB	3540199187	649795504	Multiservice Loss Models for Broadband Telecommunication Networks (Telecommunication Networks and Computer Systems)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Excellent Monography	This monography touches upon several aspects of loss networks: computation of product form probabilities, Erlang and Montecarlo approximation to loss probability, routing and admission decision. It very readable and  summarizes the work done in the past 20 year, especially by Frank Kelly.  The target application is ATM networks. One possible drawback of the  approach used here is that the effective bandwidth of a session is assumed  known a priori. In practice this approach has not been very effective, and  alternative decision rules (e.g. measurement-based effective bandwidth)  have been explored. Practical relevance of the approach aside, this is an  excellent book.	1999-10-22
US	52984265	R7GQC5YTVEO45	080521089X	939341520	Fragments: Memories of a Wartime Childhood	Books	1	60	64	N	N	A case study	There is now ample evidence that the story told in this book is false: the &quot;60 minutes&quot; special, the &quot;New Yorker&quot; article, the &quot;Granta&quot; investigation, and also a report by an historian hired  by the author's literary agent. Therefore it is not respectful of authentic  personal recounts of the Holocaust. It is an act of supreme bad taste. The  fact that I believed in the story so completely makes me all the more  upset. Yet, this book is a very interesting case of an individual  substituting his memory with someone else's, probably in good faith. The  book itself is not badly written at all, and it is still hard to believe  for me that someone with little culture an historical knowledge could  recreate facts in a way that has fooled many historians.	1999-10-14
US	52984265	R2MTZTCDYUKDAF	0878162216	879310557	The Crow	Books	2	2	13	N	N	mediocre	There is a whole mystyque industry recolving around this book. The story of O'Barr is intertwined with that of the main character of the book. And then there's the death of Brandon Lee while shooting the movie; and who  know what else. Without doubt, this is a story that goths and heavy rock  fans like. It's violent but tender, and anyone who knows hard-rockers  personally will agree that those are bad guys with a whipped cream-filled  hearth. But this mix of gratuitous violence and unbearable pastel-like  moments is a perfect display of bad taste. I was counterd by a fan telling  me that &quot;it's real life!&quot;  Who cares? I judge only by what I  read, and find this story predictable and pathetic. The pencils and the  inks are equally unremarkable, displaying an old conventional Marvel taste.  To read good, gripping graphic novels, check out &quot;Maus&quot; by  Spiegelmann, or &quot;The Sandman&quot; by Gaiman &amp; co. I give this  work 2 stars only because sometimes the text (spoken by the decadent,  literary Crow) is surprising and rich in imagery.	1999-08-23
US	52984265	R5TNL6UQK28RW	0195105192	858754978	What Is Mathematics? An Elementary Approach to Ideas and Methods	Books	5	41	44	N	N	Masterpiece of mathematical exposition	I read this book while in high school, before enrolling in college. I was captured by the beauty of the subject. Every concept seemed alive: a triumph of imagination, intuition and intelligence. I chose Physics and  Mathematics thanks to this book. Without exaggeration, this book had a big  influence in my life. Still today it has no equals, and is an enjoyable yet  challenging reading for any reader armed with a good hig-school-level math  knowledge, and some curiosity.	1999-05-21
US	52984265	R1925GXYUP833V	0195108094	65888730	Investment Science	Books	5	37	39	N	N	A very good introductory book	This textbook introduces the basics of asset pricing theory and portfolio optimization at a level suitable to advanced undergraduates. The mathematics seems to be just right for practitioners: no  martingales, no girsanov theorem, but a complete treatment of binomial lattices and a semi-quantitative introduction to diffusion processes and to stochastic calculus. Problems are very well chosen. The organization of the text is standard, except for the last two chapters, related to optimal growth portfolio and to real options.  Final remark: the book is excellent for  self-study. I learnt the subject from Prof. Luenberger himself, and he was repeating each single word from the book, saying (as a disclaimer) that &quot;it's not me copying the book... it's the book that copies what I said. After all, I wrote it.&quot;  Needless to say, the class was excellent.	1998-04-17
US	52984265	R3AMT8Z2I16W93	0521406056	172049067	Probability with Martingales (Cambridge Mathematical Textbooks)	Books	5	51	56	N	N	For the Probabilist who wants to travel light	This textbook is an introduction to the measure-theoretic theory of probability. The style is unconventional. There is humor here, together with hints and suggestions for the &quot;working probabilist&quot;. The first part of the book is rather conventional and introduces the concepts of probability spaces, events, expectation, independence of events. The second part introduces discrete-parameter martingales. Many results are given a &quot;martingale proof&quot;. Usually, proofs are elegant and concise (at the cost of not being super-rigorous). For example, existence of conditional expectation is proved using ortogonal projection in L^2 (very nice!). Exercises are interesting and mixed with the text. There are no typos, and the cost of the book is reasonable. I would advise my grandma to buy this book (if she were interested in probability).	1998-02-10
US	52984265	R1PKUHJPK06YCN	0534243185	869872199	Probability: Theory and Examples	Books	4	30	39	N	N	A good introduction to Probability for the graduate student	Apparently, the perfect text of probability has not been written yet. Durrett's textbook is as good as other good textbooks (there are not many around), but has still some flaws.  Some topics (martingales, brownian motion) are given relatively more attention than in other popular textbooks, say Billingsley's &quot;Probability and Measure&quot;. In general, the choice of the topics and their organization is what differentiates this textbook and makes it valuable. The style is somewhat terse, and sometimes the reader would appreciate some wrds of advice about the relative importance of topics and techniques (see for example the very readable &quot;Probability with Martingales&quot; by Williams). The problems are interesting. The book is very useful when used jointly with other, possibly more wordy, references. This edition has less typos then the first (which was an editorial scandal), but still too many to be considered decent. With less typos and a few more explanations, the third edition has good chances to become &quot;the&quot; reference textbook for probabilists.	1998-02-07
